550 Messrs. Cramer and Krause .
Carbohydrate [ June 10 , Plate 15 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Adult specimen of A. tuberosa , with the tentacles and hillocks wholly retracted and the potassium salt or salts diffused in the underlying cytoplasm more than was the case in the form indicated in Fig. 4 .
Cohalt sodium hexanitrite , glycerine-ammonium sulphide , x 750 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; The terminal portions , greatly magnified , of two of the tentacles of the specimen from which fig. 3 was drawn .
Cobalt sodium hexanitrite , glycerine-ammonium sulphide , x 3200 .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; The terminal portions of two tentacles of a specimen of A. tuber osa , stained to show the distribution of fat in them .
Formol , scarlet red , glycerine , x 1680 .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Specimen of A. tuberosa unstained , to show the distribution in it of the pigment which it absorbs from the vegetable forms on which it preys .
The hillocks and tentacles are free from it .
Formol , glycerine , x 500 .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; Specimen of A. tuberosa seen with its anterior border tilted forward , showing the distribution of potassium salts in the grooves formed by the two parallel folds of the lorica .
Cobalt sodium hexanitrite , glycerine-ammonium sulphide , x 450 .
Carbohydrate Metabolism in its Relation to the Thyroid Gland.\#151 ; The Effect of Thyroid Feeding on the Glycogen-content of the Liver and on the Nitrogen Distribution the Urine .
By W. Cramer and B. A. Krause .
( Communicated by Sir E. A. Schafer , F.B.S. Beceived June 10 , \#151 ; Bead June 26 , 1913 .
) ( From the Chemical Laboratory of the Physiology Department , Edinburgh University .
Introduction .
Our present knowledge of the relation of the thyroid gland to metabolism is based almost entirely on observations of the disturbances of metabolism produced by the diseases of the thyroid gland .
By the application of physiological methods to patients suffering from Graves ' disease or from myxoedema an increase in the total metabolism and in the nitrogen metabolism in Graves ' disease on the one hand , a decrease in the total metabolism in myxcedema on the other , have been definitely established .
Erom these facts the conclusion has been drawn that the secretion of the thyroid gland increases the oxidative processes , so that an inadequate functioning of the gland brings about the condition of obesity and depressed nitrogen metabolism , characteristic of myxcedema .
As regards the carbohydrate metabolism it has been observed clinically that in Graves ' disease there is sometimes a tendency to alimentary glycosuria ; the opposite condition\#151 ; an increased t 1913 .
] Metabolism in its Relation to the Thyroid Gland .
551 tolerance for carbohydrates\#151 ; has sometimes been found to occur in myxoedema.* It is remarkable , however , that the attempts to verify these conclusions in the normal organism by producing experimentally a condition of excessive secretion of the gland\#151 ; by means of feeding with thyroid gland , \#151 ; or a condition of insufficient secretion of the gland\#151 ; by extirpation of the thyroid gland\#151 ; have on the whole not been successful .
It is as yet not clear how the internal secretion of the thyroid gland produces its action on the metabolism .
Hor do we know , at present , how the actions of this hormone on the different aspects of metabolism are related bo one another .
Moreover different observers have obtained very contradictory results .
Experimentally produced hypersecretion of the gland , brought about by feeding with thyroid gland , is frequently followed by a marked increase in the total metabolism and in the nitrogen metabolism , but in some experiments such an effect has failed to appear or is much less marked.f The conditions which determine the effect of thyroid administration on nitrogen metabolism are , as yet , not understood .
And if the effect on the nitrogen metabolism does occur , the distribution of the urinary nitrogen is , as we pointed out in a previous communication , J the reverse of what one would expect to find on the general assumption that the thyroid secretion acts directly on the endogenous nitrogen metabolism .
A similar uncertainty exists with regard to the question how the carbohydrate metabolism is affected by the thyroid secretion .
So far most experimental observations on this point have been made on thyroidectomised dogs , in which , owing to the close anatomical relationship between the thyroid and the parathyroid , the separate effects of thyroidectomy and of parathyroidectomy cannot easily be recognised .
This probably accounts for the contradictory results obtained at first by different observers .
* For a detailed account of the literature on metabolism in Graves ' disease and in myxoedema the reader is referred to the articles by Rahel Hirsch and by von Bergmann , in Oppenheimer 's 'Handbuch der Biochemie,5 1911 , vol. 3 and vol. 4 , to the article by Magnus-Levy , in von Noorden 's ' Metabolism and Practical Medicine , ' vol. 3 , 1907 , and to the third Lettsomian Lecture , by A. E. Garrod , ' Lancet , ' 1912 , p. 629 .
+ Marked effects were observed , amongst others , by:\#151 ; In man : Bleibtreu and Wendelstadt ( 'Deutsche med .
Wochenschrift , ' 1895 , p. 346 ) , Magnus-Levy ( ' Zeitschr .
f. klin .
Medizin , ' 1897 , vol. 33 , p. 269 ) , Andersson and Bergman ( ' Skand .
Archiv f. Physiologie , ' 1898 , vol. 8 , p. 326 ) .
In dogs : Roos ( ' Zeitschr .
f. phys .
Chemie , ' 1895 , vol. 21 , p. 19 ; ibid. , 1896 , vol. 22 , p. 58 ; ibid. , vol. 25 , p. 12 ) , Yoit ( 'Zeitschr .
f. Biologie , ' 1897 , vol. 35 , p. 116 ) , Oswald ( 'Zeitschr .
f. phys .
Chemie , ' 1899 , vol. 27 , p. 39 ) .
No marked effects were observed by :\#151 ; In man : Magnus-Levy , loc. cit. ; in dogs : Underhill and Saiki ( 'Journ .
Biol. Chem.,5 1908 , vol. 5 , p. 225 ) , and a number of other workers , whose results are tabulated in the article by Rahel Hirsch quoted above .
X Krause and Cramer , ' Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , p. xxiii , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 44 .
552 Messrs. Cramer and Krause .
Carbohydrate [ June 10 , Falkenberg , * * * S Rahel Hirsch , f and Underhill and SaikiJ found the tolerance for carbohydrates to be diminished after thyroidectomy .
In the experiments of Falkenberg and of Hirsch the term " thyroidectomy " is used rather loosely , and it is not clear whether the parathyroids were also removed or whether all , or any of them , were left behind , while in Underhill 's experiments " " both the thyroid and parathyroids were presumably completely removed .
" Eppinger , Falta , and Riidinger , S on the other hand , failed to find such a condition after a thyroidectomy in which all four parathyroids were stated to have been left intact .
The subsequent work of Eppinger , Falta , and Riidingerll and of Underhill and HilditchlT showed that complete removal of the parathyroids produces a transient but marked lowering of the tolerance for carbohydrates .
The effects of partial parathyroidectomy differ according to the number of parathyroids removed .
After the removal of one or two parathyroids the sugar-utilising power of the body is not decreased .
Additional removal of the thyroid does not affect this result according to Underhill and Hilditch , who state that two parathyroids are sufficient to maintain normal control of the nutritional processes of the body .
When three parathyroids are removed , the tolerance for carbohydrates is distinctly lowered , whether the thyroid is left intact or removed with the parathyroids .
The effects of thyroidectomy in the proper sense of the term are not so clearly understood as those of parathyroidectomy .
This is partly due to the technical difficulty of removing the thyroid without at the same time removing or at least injuring the two internal parathyroids .
Eppinger , Falta , ^and Riidinger state , in their second paper , that thyroidectomy in the proper sense of the term , in which all four parathyroids are left intact , is followed by -an increased tolerance for glucose .
But we have been unable to find either in their first publication to which they refer , or in their subsequent paper , any record which would clearly demonstrate an increased tolerance after removal of the thyroid gland .
McCurdy** observed an increased tolerance for carbohydrates in three dogs from which the thyroid together with two parathyroids had been removed .
In one of these animals , however , the two remaining parathyroids were unintentionally injured to such an extent that the dog developed tetany and died .
The fact that this animal too exhibited an increased * Falkenberg , lOte Congress f. innere Medizin , Wiesbaden , 1891 , quoted from Rahel Hirsch ( see below ) .
t Rahel Hirsch , ' Zeitschr .
f. experimentelle Pathologie u. Therapie , ' 1908 , vol. 5 , p. 233 .
J Underhill and Saiki , 'Journ .
Biol. Chem. , ' 1908 , vol. 5 , p. 225 .
S Eppinger , Falta , and Rudinger , 'Zeitschr .
f. klin .
Medizin , ' 1908 , vol. 66 , p. 1 .
|| Ibid. , 1909 , vol. 67 , p. 380 .
Underhill and Hilditch , ' Amer .
Journ. Physiol. , ' 1909 , vol. 25 , p. 66 .
\#166 ; ** McCurdy , 'Journ .
Exper .
Med. , ' 1909 , vol. 11 , p. 801 .
1913 .
] Metabolism in its Relation to the Thyroid Gland .
553 tolerance for carbohydrates makes it difficult to give a correct interpretation to his observations on the effects of thyroidectomy .
Eppinger , Falta , and Rudinger* further supported their arguments by observations on the behaviour of thyroidectomised animals to injections of adrenin .
They stated that the glycosuria which takes place in normal animals after the injection of adrenin does not occur in thyroidectomised animals .
But a repetition of these experiments by Underhill and his collaborators]- failed to confirm these results .
Underhill showed that one and the same normal animal under similar conditions differs considerably in its readiness to respond to the injection of adrenin by the excretion of sugar in the urine and that thyroidectomised animals respond to adrenin as readily as normal animals .
Whether excessive secretion of the thyroid hormone , produced by thyroid feeding , affects the carbohydrate metabolism of the normal organism has not been studied experimentally .
Clinically it has been observed that thyroid administration sometimes produces a tendency to alimentary glycosuria .
From this brief review of the literature it will be evident that the relation of the thyroid gland to metabolism is not yet clearly understood .
The effect of the thyroid hormone on the metabolism of the normal organism is uncertain and variable , so that a secure experimental basis is lacking and that considerable discrepancies exist between the observations of different authors .
Most observers agree , however , in attributing to the thyroid secretion a direct stimulating influence on the nitrogen metabolism and on the total metabolism .
To the latter factor they attribute , as a rule , the effect which the administration of thyroid gland has on the fat metabolism .
The Effect of Thyroid Feeding on the Glycogen-content of the Liver .
The observations recorded below show clearly that the thyroid hormone has a marked and very peculiar effect on the carbohydrate metabolism .
If rats , kept on a carbohydrate rich diet ( bread and milk ) are fed for from two to eight days with relatively small doses of fresh thyroid gland ( sheep 's thyroid was used mostly ) the glycogen-content of the liver falls so low that the glycogen cannot be estimated gravimetrically in the liver .
One must , of course , take into account here , that in a rat only 4-6 grin , of liver tissue are available for analysis , so that a glycogen-content below 0*1-0 *2 per cent , cannot be determined accurately .
Such low values , which in a normal rat are found only after 10-15 hours ' fasting , are described as a " trace " in the tables * Eppinger , Falta , and RUdinger , loc. cit. t Underhill and Hilditch , loc. cit. ; Underhill , ' Amer .
Journ. Physiol.,5 1911 , vol. 27 , p. 311 .
554 Messrs. Cramer and Krause .
Carbohydrate [ June 10 , given below .
In all our estimations Pfliiger 's method was used , the sugar after hydrolysis being determined by Bertrand 's method .
Unless otherwise stated the last dose of thyroid gland was given 24 hours before the animal was killed .
In almost every case the liver of a thyroid-fed rat and that of a normal control rat ; were subjected to analysis at the same " time .
Both animals were kept on the same diet , both were fed at the same time , the amount of food taken being noted , both were killed simultaneously ( by breaking the neck ) a definite number of hours after a meal , the number of hours varying in different series of experiments .
Such control estimations are particularly important in the case of the rats , since it has been shown* that in these animals the liver both forms and loses its glycogen more rapidly than the data given for larger animals would lead one to expect .
All the animals examined took their food well and showed no signs of ill health .
The results obtained with rats , which are grouped together in Table I , were tested and confirmed by experiments on cats .
These animals were also kept on a carbohydrate-ricli diet ( porridge and milk ) and fed for one or two days repeatedly with fresh thyroid gland .
Here , too , control estimations with the liver of normal cats were made in every case .
Here , too , only a trace of .
liver glycogen was found in the thyroid-fed cats , except in one case , in which 0*37 per cent , of glycogen was found , a value considerably lower than those of the controls .
By dissolving the total glycogen obtained from the whole liver in the other cases in a suitable small volume of water it was hoped to obtain sufficient material for a quantitative estimation , but even then the reduction was so slight that the amount of sugar present could not be determined .
Examination of the urine contained in the bladder showed the absence of reducing sugar .
The results of the observations on cats are given in Table II .
In a few experiments on rats the effect of a single administration of thyroid gland was studied ( see Table III ) .
There is then no very obvious effect on the liver glycogen , which is still present in definite amounts .
There may be a diminution in the glycogen percentage of the liver and , in fact , in the few observations recorded in Table Ilf the values found for the liver glycogen after one single administration of thyroid gland are below those of the control animals .
But since the liver glycogen varies within wide limits , even in normal animals kept under similar conditions , a very extensive series of observations would be necessary in order to determine whether a single administration of thyroid gland is capable of affecting the liver glycogen .
There is further the fact that individual differences exist in the activity of glands obtained from different animals even of the same species .
This factor * Cramer and Lochhead , 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 1913 , B , vol. 86 , p. 302 .
1913 .
] Metabolism in its Relation to the Thyroid Gland .
would be more likely to affect the results when the animals are fed only once , than when they are fed repeatedly with material from different animals .
Table I.\#151 ; Effect of Repeated Administration of Thyroid Gland on Rats .
Exp. State of digestion .
Dose of thyroid and length of feeding .
Liver glycogen of thyroid-fed animals .
Liver glycogen of normal controls .
1 Bread and milk ad lib. J lobe every day for 5 days trace per cent. 0*49 2 a 33 \gt ; ) a 33 1 *71 3 n if a 33 33 4-36 4 } ) 33 \#163 ; lobe every day for 8 days 33 \#151 ; 5 3 hrs .
after last meal ... J lobe every day for 5 days 33 1*7 6 n 33 i lobe every day for 4 days 33 4*2 7 a 33 1 grm. dessic .
gland on first 31 2*8 8 } ) 33 day , 1 lobe fresh thyroid on second day 1 lobe every day for 2 days 33 2*4 9 \gt ; ) a 33 3 ) " 1*9 10 5 hrs .
after last meal ... 1 gram dessic .
thyroid on 1*4 11 7 hrs .
after last meal ... first day , 1 lobe fresh thyroid on second day f ) 33 0 5 12 9 hrs .
after last meal ... } ) ) } 33 0*6 Table II.\#151 ; Effect of Repeated Administration of Thyroid Gland on Cats .
Exp. State of digestion .
Dose of thyroid and length of feeding .
Liver glycogen of thyroid-fed animals .
Liver glycogen of normal controls .
per cent. per cent. 1 3 hrs .
after last meal 1 lobe twice a day for 1 day trace 0*79 2 33 33 1 lobe once a day for 2 days \#187 ; 3-03 3 33 33 3 lobes three times a day for 1 day 33 33 33 3*88 4 12 hrs .
after last meal ... 0*37 2*96 5 18 hrs .
after last meal ... 2 lobes on first day and 3 lobes the second day trace 7*22 Table III.\#151 ; Effect of Single Administration of Thyroid on Rats .
Expt. State of digestion .
Dose of thyroid .
Liver glycogen of thyroid-fed rats .
Liver glycogen of normal controls .
1 3 hrs .
after last meal ... 1 lobe 17 hrs .
previously ... per cent. 1*1 per cent. 4*2 2 6 hrs .
after last meal ... 13 33 .* * 1*6 3*7 3 9 hrs .
after last meal ... 33 33 .
* ' 0*5 1*8 4 11 hrs .
after last meal ... 33 33 * . .
0*1 \#151 ; Messrs. Cramer and Krause .
Carbohydrate [ June 10 , The Effect of Thyroid Feeding on the General Metabolism of Carbohydrates .
In the further study of this phenomenon we have been led by the following considerations .
Two possibilities , which appear to be diametrically opposed to each other , suggest themselves as being capable of furnishing an explanation of this action of the thyroid hormone on the liver glycogen .
Either thyroid feeding primarily increases the oxidation of carbohydrates in the organism or it primarily inhibits the function of the liver to form and store glycogen .
In the former case one would expect to find the following combination of symptoms : ( 1 ) A formation of glycogen in the liver soon after a meal rich in carbohydrates followed by a disappearance of glycogen more rapidly than in the normal animals , ( 2 ) an increased tolerance for glucose , ( 3 ) a diminution of the blood-sugar , especially in the fasting animal .
An inhibition of the liver function , on the other hand , would be reflected , ( 1 ) in the relative absence of liver glycogen even soon after a meal rich in carbohydrates , ( 2 ) in a diminished tolerance for glucose , ( 3 ) in a rise in the blood-sugar especially after a carbohydrate-rich meal .
Information on the behaviour of the liver glycogen in fed and fasting animals can be gathered from Table I. It will be seen that the effect of thyroid feeding on the glycogen-content of the liver is independent of feeding .
Experiments on the tolerance for glucose after thyroid feeding were made on dogs .
A detailed account of these experiments will be published later ; but the results may be briefly summarised here , as showing that thyroid feeding produces a slight but distinct lowering of the tolerance for glucose .
A dog , for instance , which normally could assimilate 100 grm. glucose without any glycosuria supervening and only began to excrete sugar in the urine after the administration of 110 grm. glucose , had its limit of assimilation reduced to 90 grm. glucose after three days ' feeding with fresh thyroid .
The behaviour of the blood-sugar is at present being investigated in this laboratory by Mr. R. J. M. Horne .
These observations are not yet completed but they are sufficiently far advanced to show that there is at any rate no diminution in the sugar-content of the blood , but rather the reverse .
One must conclude , therefore , that the internal secretion of the thyroid gland , when administered to normal animals , has an inhibiting influence on the carbohydrate metabolism .
But since the utilisation of carbohydrates by the organism is not markedly affected , as is shown by the comparatively slight lowering of the tolerance for glucose , it follows that the thyroid hormone acts specifically on only one aspect of carbohydrate metabolism in so far as it inhibits the formation and storage of glycogen in the liver .
1913 .
] Metabolism in its Relation to the Thyroid Gland .
557 The Effect of Thyroid Feeding on the Protein Metabolism .
This conclusion helps to explain a difficulty , already alluded to in the-introduction , in the interpretation of the influence of the thyroid hormone on protein metabolism .
One distinguishes at present with Folin two forms of protein metabolism , , the constant endogenous metabolism , which is independent of the protein , taken in in the food , and the exogenous metabolism , which varies with the intake of protein in the food .
Since thyroid feeding produces an increased , protein metabolism even in the fasting organism , it follows that the thyroid hormone acts on the endogenous and not on the exogenous protein metabolism. .
One would expect , therefore , to find after thyroid feeding a marked increase in the excretion of uric acid and of creatinin , since both these substances are supposed to represent end-products of endogenous protein metabolism .
We found , however , that the increased nitrogen excretion after thyroid feeding is accounted for almost entirely by the increased excretion of urea and ammonia , , while the excretion of creatinin and of uric acid is either not increased at all or only very slightly .
This difficulty would appear to find its explanation in the fact that thyroid feeding affects carbohydrate metabolism in the manner described above .
For the distribution of the urinary nitrogen after thyroid feeding is very similar to that which presents itself when carbohydrates are withheld from the diet. .
In the latter case , too , there is a marked increase in the nitrogen excretion , * even when no protein is given in the food , and here , too , the increased nitrogen output is due , almost entirely , to an increase in the excretion of urea and ammonia.f A further similarity is to be found in the appearance of creatin in the urine both after thyroid feeding ] : and after withdrawal of carbohydrates !
or in disturbances of carbohydrate metabolism such as diabetes mellitusS or phlorliizin diabetes .
S|| In order to demonstrate this similarity as clearly as possible , quantitative analyses of the nitrogenous urinary constituents have been carried out on one of us ; ( 1 ) on a diet , creatin , - creatinin-and purin-free , but containing different amounts of carbohydrates , ( 2 ) on the same diets after thyroid feeding , ( 3 ) on a similar diet without carbohydrates .
The results are given in Table IV .
Experiment 1 shows the effect of * Landergren , 'Skand .
Archiv f. Physiologies 1903 , vol , 14 , p. 112 ; Kayser , quoted from Landergren .
t Cathcart , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1909 , vol. 39 , p. 311 .
1 Krause and Cramer , 'Phys .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , p. xxiii , 'Journ .
Physiol.,5 vol. 44 .
S Krause and Cramer , ibid. , 1910 , p. lxi , ibid. , vol. 40 ; Krause , ' Quart .
Journ. Exp. Physiol.,5 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 289 .
|| Cathcart and Taylor , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 41 , p. 273 .
Table IV.\#151 ; Subject , R A. K. ; age , 26 years ; weight , 65 kgrm .
Messrs. Cramer and Krause .
Carbohydrate [ June LO 00 " \#169 ; .
fH a '*S \#169 ; o i fc d .2 o ?
a o EH \#169 ; J i cJ P 0 \amp ; \#169 ; 0 rQ .d \#169 ; ~ bjD d .g ( S a CD S .
rH \lt ; D R W 6 ft 0-8 grm. 0 trace 0-13 o7\gt ; 9 \lt ; 9 A'* 00 CO i ?
ip So bXDO \#169 ; o \#169 ; 9 IQ 9 P , rH rH rH gS 9 ( M 9 biDO o o \#169 ; rH 9 9 ft\lt ; ' *o CO aS 3 05 9 Gbo o o p. C. 77 e *\gt ; .
00 39 CO 00 rH 9 So00 \#169 ; 2 a ?
\#169 ; q uo CO JO d8 1 8 as 30 JO rH rH rH CO 00* ( M \#169 ; q cq d c2 \#169 ; ^ S I n PM G CD s .
rH CD P-i M o o o JO rH rH \lt ; M lO Tp O 3 o o o 9 CO 9 *o CO CO j\gt ; - \#163 ; h o o o 9 9 9 00 00 05 9 05 9 3 o \#169 ; o C5 lO O \#187 ; o S ?
00 9 CM oq 00 \p 9 CO \#169 ; O 8 CO CO s \lt ; M \lt ; M oq O rH \lt ; ?q \lt ; M W \lt ; N '\#169 ; bD C g \#169 ; \#174 ; *S 1 \#163 ; 3 \#169 ; ~ ft " -g \#166 ; s a jo 'I* I .1 \#171 ; Tg-S fl* go\#174 ; \#166 ; ' S , a Hi go Eh G CD a .n CD ft H rH 9 o o J\gt ; oo \#169 ; q o 9 o o 9 CO 00 Ip 00 \#169 ; o 00 t-H 1 0 JO o o 9 ip CO CO CO iO 9 \#169 ; o \#169 ; q 00 CO 00 05 9 iO ip \#169 ; \#169 ; q CO 9 05 rfi CO HP 8 8 JO \#169 ; q \#169 ; q 2 CO* HP ( M a \#169 ; bD O -S '3 a bJD iH \lt ; N* 9 SS8 S S j .0b4 | _ .
0 ||l tl-s \#166 ; s*s a S \#169 ; w O o ^ \#151 ; ' ^ CO O CO H # H\#151 ; ** d S W ) I* *o rg l\#151 ; t o 1913 .
] Metabolism in its Relation to the Thyroid Gland .
559 thyroid administration on a diet relatively rich in protein and poor in carbohydrates , while in Experiment 2 the diet was poor in protein and rich in carbohydrates .
There is in both cases a marked rise in the nitrogen output due to an increased excretion of urea and ammonia , so that the percentage distribution of the urea- and ammonia-nitrogen remains practically the same .
On the protein-rich diet there is also a distinct increase in the excretion of uric acid , and a slight increase in the excretion of creatinin , effects which are completely absent on the protein-poor diet .
It is further interesting to note that no creatin is excreted when the thyroid is administered on a carbohydrate-rich diet .
Experiment 3 shows that withdrawal of carbohydrates from the diet is accompanied by a rise in the nitrogen-output which is due to an increased excretion of urea and ammonia .
It is interesting to note that in spite of the fact that the subject of the experiment had been on a creatin- and creatinin -free diet for 24 hours before the beginning of the experiment , creatin was still being excreted and the creatinin excretion was above the normal for that person .
There is a distinct increase in the excretion of creatin as the result of the withdrawal of carbohydrates from the diet .
A more detailed study of the effect of thyroid feeding on protein metabolism is at present being carried out by one of us .
Here it is sufficient to point out that the similarity in the distribution of the urinary nitrogen in the two conditions ( thyroid feeding and withdrawal of carbohydrates ) suggests that the action of the thyroid hormone on protein metabolism is effected partly , at any rate , through its action on carbohydrate metabolism .
It would follow , too , that endogenous protein metabolism is many sided , more so than it has been supposed to be .
There is that generally recognised form of endogenous protein metabolism , which is represented by the formation of creatinin and which is not very susceptible to the influence of the thyroid hormone .
But there is yet another form of endogenous protein metabolism , quite independent of the former , which is under the influence of the thyroid gland and which would appear to have some specially close relation to the metabolism of carbohydrates .
General Discussion .
The most remarkable feature of the condition induced by thyroid feeding lies in the fact that the marked inhibition of the glycogenic function of the liver is not accompanied by a glycosuria or , at any rate , a very marked lowering of the tolerance for glucose , as the generally accepted view of carbohydrate metabolism would lead one to expect .
This absence of any marked influence on the more obvious features of carbohydrate metabolism VOL. LXXXVI.\#151 ; B. 2 T 560 Carbohydrate Metabolism in its Relation to the Thyroid Gland .
masks the relation which exists between the thyroid secretion and the carbohydrate metabolism , and has no donbt been the reason why this relation , although so frequently suspected , has not been demonstrated before .
The fact that the glycogenic function of the liver may be so completely in abeyance , without producing any correspondingly marked effect on the tolerance for glucose , leads one to conclude that these two aspects of carbohydrate metabolism are independent of each other to a far greater extent than is generally supposed .
Further investigations on this point are in progress .
The constancy with which the effect of the thyroid hormone on the liver glycogen is produced suggests this as a suitable test for the investigation of the relations which the thyroid is supposed to have to other internally secreting glands .
In conclusion it may be pointed out that the effects described in this paper are produced by the administration of thyroid gland to normal animals and represent therefore the conditions induced by a hypersecretion of the gland .
It does not necessarily follow , although it is possible , that the thyroid hormone , in the amounts in which it is poured out into the blood in a normal animal , also has an inhibiting influence on carbohydrate metabolism .
For it is a well known fact that physiologically active substances , which in large doses have a paralysing effect , produce a stimulating effect in smaller doses .
Summary .
When small amounts of fresh thyroid gland are administered for two or three days to rats or cats fed on a carbohydrate-rich diet , the liver will be found to contain only traces of glycogen .
This effect is due to an inhibition of the glycogenic function of the liver , not to an increased utilisation of carbohydrates .
It is not accompanied by glycosuria , and other experiments on dogs , not recorded in this paper , show that the tolerance for glucose is only slightly diminished by thyroid feeding .
The action of the thyroid secretion on protein metabolism is effected partly through its action on carbohydrate metabolism , for the distribution of the nitrogenous constituents of the urine after thyroid feeding is very similar to that observed after withdrawal of carbohydrates from the diet or in disturbances of carbohydrate metabolism .
It is specially pointed out that the condition of the carbohydrate metabolism produced by thyroid feeding is unique .
The bearing of these observations on current conceptions of protein and of carbohydrate metabolism is briefly discussed .
The expenses of this research were defrayed by grants from the Moray Fund .

