The following papers were also read:-1 .
" On the Determination of the Difference of Longitude , by means of the Magnetic Telegraph .
" By Elias Loomis , Esq. , in a Letter to Lieut.-Col. Sabine , R.A. , For .
Sec. R.S. Communicated by Lieut.-Col. Sabine , R.A. , For .
Sec. R.S. The writer first refers to a series of experiments made under the direction of Professor Bache , for the determination of the difference of longitude between New York , Philadelphia and Washington , by means of the magnetic telegraph .
By this series of experiments he considers it established that , by means of Morse 's telegraph , two clocks distant from each other 200 miles , can be compared together with the same precision as if they were placed side by side ; and that the difference of longitude of two places can be determined with the same precision as the relative error of the clocks .
These results were so satisfactory that Professor Bache determined to prosecute them more extensively , and during the past summer comparisons have been made between New York and Cambridge observatory near Boston .
The plan of operation this season was more matured than during the former .
The comparisons were all made between a solar chronometer at Cambridge and a sidereal clock at New York .
At ten o'clock in the evening , the two observatories having been put in telegraphic communication , when the seconds hand of the solar chronometer came round to 60s , a signal was given at Cambridge , by pressing the key of the telegraph-register ; at the same instant a click was heard at New York , and the time was recorded according to the sidereal clock .
At the end of 10s a second signal was given , which was also recorded at New York ; at the end of another 105 a third signal was given , and so on for sixty seconds .
The Cambridge astronomer then comnmenced beating seconds by striking the key of the telegraph-register in coincidence with the beats of his chronometer .
The New York astronomer compared the signals received with the beats of his clock , and waited for a coincidence .
When the beats were sensibly synchronous the time was recorded , and the astronomer waited six minutes for another coincidence of beats .
The Cambridge astronomer continued beating seconds for fifteen minutes , during which time the New York observer was sure of two coincidences , and might obtain three .
When these were concluded , the New York astronomer in the same manner gave signals for one minute at intervals of 10S , and then beat seconds for fifteen minutes , during which time the Cambridge astronomer obtained four or five coincidences upon his chronometer .
This mode of comparison was practised every night , and it is considered that the uncertainty in the comparison of the time-pieces cannot exceed two or three hundredths of a second on any night ; and in a series of comparisons the error may be regarded as entirely elimninated .
Another mode of comparison which was practised is that of telegraphing star transits .
A list of stars which culminate near our zenith at intervals of five or six minutes was prepared , and the observers , both at New York and Cambridge , were furnished with a copy .
They then proceeded as follows : Cambridge selected two stars from the list , which we will call A and B , and struck the key of his register at the instant when the star A passed each of the seven wires of his transit .
These signals were heard at New York , and the times recorded .
Cambridge then observed the transit of star B in the ordinary manner without telegraphing .
New York then observed the transit of star A on his meridian in the usual manner ; and struck his key at the instant the star B passed each of the seven wires of his transit , which signals were heard and recorded at Cambridge .
The difference of longitude between New York and Cambridge is nearly twelve minutes , affording ample time for all these observations .
Thus New York obtained upon his own clock the times of transit of star A over the meridians of Cambridge and New York ; and Cambridge obtained upon his chronometer the times of transit of star B over the same meridians .
The difference of these times gives the difference of longitude independent of the right ascension of the st ars .
Both observers then reversed the axis of their transit instruments ; Cambridge selected a second pair of stars from the list , and the same series of observations was repeated as with the first pair .
The error of collimation was thus eliminated , and by confining the observations to stars within about five degrees of the zenith , the influence of azimuthal error was avoided .
The level being read at every reversal , the correction for it was applied by computation .
In this manner it is hoped to eliminate every possible source of error , except that which arises from the personal habits of the observers .
In order to eliminate this error , a travelling observer worked for a time at Cambridge and compared with the Cambridge astronomer ; then came to New York and compared with the New York astronomer ; then returned to Cambridge again , and so on as often as was thought necessary .
Finally , at the conclusion of the campaign all the observers were to meet at Cambridge and make a general comparison of their modes of observation .
On one or two nights the preceding programme was changed , and each observer telegraphed both star A and star B.

