875 .
] On the Natural History of Kerguelen 's Island .
501 The limitation of the canalicular tissue of the cord , at its placental attachment , is quite as abrupt .
The injection-fluid cannot be made to pass from the substance of the cord into the placenta , for it is arrested by a firm membrane derived from the chorion , which the vessels of the cord penetrate , and between two layers of which they lie .
There is absolutely no connexion between the nutritive system of the cord and that of the placenta .
YI .
The chief factor in the nutrition of the cord is the arrangement of capillaries entering it from the foetus .
From the facts observed by me in cases of extra-uterine gestation , it is likely , however , that the stomata of the epithelial surfaces of the cord play an important part in its nutrition .
The liquor amnii contains substances which are very suggestive that the fluid is used for purposes of nutrition , and perhaps for the nutrition of the cord .
In recent cases of extra-uterine fcetation , before the liquor amnii becomes absorbed , the cord remains fresh and plump .
After the fluid has been absorbed the cord becomes shrivelled ; but it still retains its structural characters , minus the wandering cells .
It may be , therefore , that the canalicular nuclei are able to keep the cord in repair , as it were , by the matters absorbed from the liquor amnii , until that fluid disappears\#151 ; very much as ivy continues to live after its connexion with its root has been severed .
Indeed the analogy between the umbilical cord and vegetable tissue is , as I hope to be able to show further , a very close one .
III .
" First Report of the Naturalist accompanying the Transit-of-Venus Expedition to Kerguelen 's Island in 1874 .
" ( Conclusion .
) By the Rev. A. E. Eaton .
Communicated by the I President .
Received May 10 , 1875 .
; In January 1875 , shortly after the departure of the American Expedition from Royal Sound , an opportunity occurred of visiting another part of Kerguelen 's Island .
To relieve the ennui of his officers and men , who by that time were thoroughly tired of being detained without any definite occupation in an uninhabited island , Captain Fairfax ordered the ' Yolage ' to leave Observatory Bay , and proceeded to Swain 's Bay , where he remained three weeks .
During this period he entertained me as his guest , took me to the best localities in the bay for collecting , and rendered me every assistance that lay in his power .
The Royal Society is therefore indebted to Captain Fairfax for a fine series of Algae from Swain 's Bay , comprising many species not found in Observatory Bay , and some that were not known to be indigenous to the island .
Most of these are described in the ' Flora Antarctica ' as Falkland-Islands Species .
Captain Fairfax at the same time enabled me to secure the skeleton of a Globiocephalus , which was found dead in shallow water by \#166 ; Mr. Forest ( Mnds .
) .
Most of the epidermis had been removed by small 502 Rev. A. E. Eaton on the [ June II Crustacea , so that it was not possible to ascertain the colour of the animal but Lieut. Goodridge , E.N. , very kindly photographed the carcass befor it was flensed , and its dimensions were carefully taken by one of the boat crew , and therefore it will be easily identified .
Young Sea-Elephants were frequently found by us in Swain 's Baj Some examples are uniformly reddish brown , others are pale , blotche and spotted with darker grey .
They usually lie just above the bead separately , in hollows among the Accenci and Azorellci , where they ar sheltered from the wind .
On being approached they make no attemp to move away ( possibly because there are no land animals indigenous t the country capable of molesting them to cause them to acquire a hab : of flight ) , but raise up the fore part of their body , open the mouth wide and utter a peculiar slobbering cry .
My mammalian specimens , unfoi tunately , are not so complete as they were when first procured , owin to the impossibility of preventing " liberty men " and others taking a ; interest in such " great curiosities " whilst the process of cleaning then was in progress .
The removal of stones , purposely laid upon some c the-bones , led to the loss of the fore limbs of seals , \amp ; c. , which were blow !
away by the wind .
All of the birds , with the exception of two species ( a Procellaria and ( Thalassidroma ) , are represented in the Cape-Town Museum .
Thalassidromci Wilsoni ( Dr. Wyville Thomson , however , seems t consider the Kerguelen-Island bird to be another species ) arrived in th Sound in great numbers a few days before the " Transit .
" Towards th end of January they commenced laying their eggs generally .
By .th second and third weeks of Eebruary the incubation of the eggs wa usually far advanced ; and a day or two before we left the island , Capl Eairfax sent me a young bird recently hatched .
The tarsO-metatarss joint is not elongated in the chick .
I failed to find the eggs of droma melcmogaster ; the birds occurred to me only in pairs .
It may be well to explain that Petrels sit in their holes in pairs unfc the egg is laid .
Then usually only one bird is found at a time upon th nest until the young are hatched ; and soon after they have issued froE the egg the young are found alone during the day .
For whilst incuba tion is in progress , the bird not upon the nest is either asleep in a sidinj or branch of the burrow or ( more commonly ) is spending the day at sea and when the young are a day or two old , both of the parents absent them selves during the day , and only return at night for the purpose of feedinj them .
Along the coast , outside Swain 's Bay , a few examples of Diomede ' .
melanojphrys , a species not observed in Eoyal Sound , were noticed .
In the less frequented parts of the island some of the birds weri unusually fearless and tame .
Shags would submit to be stroked aloni the back without getting off their nests or attempting to peck thi hand .
More than once Sheathbills , and on one occusion a Skua , fed on 1875 .
] Natural History of Kerguelen 's Island .
503 of my hand .
* A Sheathbill , after pecking at my boots , ate in succession six eggs held out to it .
But the Skua behaved in a still more extraordinary manner .
On approaching within three hundred yards of the nest it was evident , from the excitement of the old birds , that the young were hatched ; and on searching for the nestlings , the old birds commenced their usual onslaught when within two hundred yards of the nest .
Disregarding their outeries and fierce swooping down , I soon found the young ones crouching amongst the herbage some distance apart from one another and the nest ( which they leave at an early age ) , and sat beside the nearest .
The hen Skua immediately alighted within a yard of me and continued her vociferations , whilst the cock withdrew to the other nestling .
On stroking her chick the hen became more excited than ever and advanced a little nearer .
Taking a Prion 's egg from my pocket and holding it out , her cries ceased whilst she eyed the egg , but recommenced when she again looked at me .
She once more looked at the egg , became silent , waddled cautiously up and pecked gently at my finger , then , reassured , pecked the- egg , which she very soon made an end of .
In the same way she ate a young Prion killed for the purpose , and afterwards flew to the hole from whence the bird had been taken to see if it contained another ; and upon my digging at some other holes , she came near and stood by in eager expectancy of further gratuities .
With regard to her pecking first at the finger before the egg , I would observe that wild birds usually do this previous to feeding out of the hand .
The Sheathbills did the same , and so do English birds which have never been in confinement .
It seems to be their way of testing the nature of any strange-looking object .
The Sheathbill was plentiful in Swain 's Bay , and a fair number of their eggs w'ere procured .
As Dr. Kidder , the American Naturalist , had not succeeded in finding any , I was anxious that he should have some ; but did not consider myself at liberty to give him more than one , and that a damaged specimen almost in halves .
The Royal Society will now be able to be more liberal .
- A fine male example of a Relict , differing from the species previously found in Royal Sound , was shot by Mr. Budds , the chaplain of H.M.S. pYolage , ' two days before we sailed .
I The Agrostismentioned when I last wrote came into flower about the third week in January .
It can scarcely be said to form a sward , or pasturage even , in the neighbourhoods visited by me .
The Limosellci was found in February in fruit and flower , very sparingly , in only one shallow lake between the Observatory and Mount Crozier .
I omitted to inform you that the Kerguelen-Island given m the ' Flora Antarctica ' as G. verncivar .
terrestris , should ( I think ) be regarded as a form of G. peclunculata rather than of G. verna .
It has no bracts , and seems to exhibit other peculiarities of C. pedunculcitci .
Yrof .
Wyville Thomson alludes to it as G. vernci but probably he 504 Mr. J. E. H. Gordon on Determination * [ June 15 adopted the name from the ' Elora ' without suspicion , unless , indee ( which is unlikely ) , both species occur on the island .
Eor the satisfa* tion of other botanists I have brought back specimens of the plants i spirits , showing flower and fruit , as well as dried examples .
The fern , which was new to me , according to Lady Barkly , may be form of Polypodium( Grammitis ) australe .
In the following particulars I am sorry to have occasion to repor failure .
The moss-eating Lepidopterous larvae all died before our arrival at th Cape .
All the larger Algae collected were spoilt .
One suite of dried es amples was lost , through the box in which they were contained bein placed open , in the ram , by one of the servants a few days before w sailed , without my knowing it had been moved from its place .
Th second set , gathered the day before we left the island , was sent on boari the ' Supply/ with directions that the box should be placed in an accessible position : unfortunately the message miscarried , the box was stowed awa ; in the hold , and I could not get at it until a fortnight afterwards , whei almost the whole of its contents were completely decomposed .
Again , series of examples of some of the flowering plants were los ' through the difficulty of attending to them when collected .
I left Kerguelen 's Island in H.M.S. ' Supply ' on the 27th February , arrived at Simon 's Bay on the 31st March , and at Gravesend on the evening of the 7th May .
In the course of the voyage I collected a few animals and Algae with the towing-net .
IV .
" On the Determination of Verdet 's Constant in Absolute Units/ ' ' By J. E. H. Gordon , B.A. , Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge* .
Communicated by Professor J. Clerk Maxwtell , F.R.S. Received May 5 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) In the year 1845 Faraday discovered that certain media possess the property of rotating the plane of polarization of light passing through them when a magnetic force acts on them .
About the year 1853 M. Verdet found that with the same magnet and medium the rotation is directly proportional to the strength of the magnet\#151 ; that is , that the ratio between the amount of rotation and the intensity of the magnetic field is constant .
The object of this investigation is to measure this constant in absolute * The whole of this work has been , done under Prof. Clerk Maxwell 's superintendence .
He suggested the method and nearly all the details ; and any merit which the investigation may have belongs to him .
He is , however , in no way responsible for any errors there may be in the numerical results .

