]\gt ; [ 469 ] , Oscillations of a Rotating Shell containing Fluid .
S. S. HOUGH , B.A. , St. John 's College , mbridge .
by Sir ROBERT S. BALL , F.R. Received January 18 , \mdash ; Read Febl uary 7 , \mdash ; Revised March 28 , 1895 .
Introduction .
IN a paper published in 'Acta Mathematica , ' vol. 16 , M. FOLLY announces the fact that the latitude of places on the earth 's surface is undergoing periodic changes in a period considerably in excess of that which theory has hitherto been supposed to require .
This result has been confirmed in a remarkable manner by Dr. S. C. CHANDLER in America ( vide ' Astronomical Journal , ' vols .
11 , 12 ) , who , as the result of an exhaustive examination of almost all the available records of latitude observations for the last half-century , has assigned 427 days as the true period in which the changes are taking place .
The old theory , based on the assumption that the earth was rigid led to a period of 305 days , and M. FoLlB proposes to account for the extension of this period by attributing a certain amount of freedom to the internal portions of the earth .
The earth he supposes to be composed of ' a solid shell moving more or less freely on a nucleus consisting of fluid at least at its surface The argument advanced by M. FOLJE in favour of this constitution of the earth , natnely , the independence of the motions of the shell and the nucleus , appeared to me to be unsatisfactory , and I therefore proposed to myself to test the validity of it by examining a particular case which lent itself to mathematical analysis , namely , that in which the internal of the shell is ellipsoidal and the nucleus consists entirely of homogeneous fluid .
The principal axes of the shell and of cavity occupied by fluid are assumed to be coincident , and the oscillations are considered about a state of steady motion in which the axis of rotation coincides with one of these axes .
It is clear that a steady motion will be possible in this case .
and that such a motion will be secularly stable in the event of the axis of rotation being the axis of greatest moment for both the shell and the cavity .
The problem was originally treated by the analysis used by in his memoir on the stability of the fluid ellipsoid with a free surface ( ' Acta Mathematica , ' 25 .
vol. 7 ) .
This analysis reduces the determination of the motion of the fluid to the problem of finding a single function , subject to certain boundary conditions , which in our case take a very simple form .
In the case where the surface of the fluid is ellipsoidal , it is found that , when the system is oscillating in one of its normal modes , will be expressible as the sum of a series of Lame products of a single order only .
When is different from 2 , the types of oscillation are such that no disturbance of the shell is invohred , and a period equation for the oscillations of the fluid may be deduced in a manner similar to that given by The types of oscillation corresponding to demand exceptional treatment , in consequence of the motion communicated to the shell they exist .
The fluid motion , however , is found to be such that the molecular rotation is everywhere the same .
Mr. BRYAN has suggested to me that this circumstance may be made use of in order to treat the oscillations which involve motions of the shell by a simple analysis previously employed by ( ' Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc vol. 4 , p. 4 ) which does not involve functions .
To facilitate the reading of the paper , the results are first deduced by this method , and the Lame analysis by which they were originally obtained is reserved for an appendix .
The oscillations under consideration are found to be of two types .
One of these corresponds to an oscillation previously discussed by HOPKINS in his " " Researches in Physical Geology\ldquo ; ( ' Phil. Trans 1839 ) .
This exists only in consequence of the tained fluid , and in it the oscillations of the shell are similar in character to the " " forced\ldquo ; nutations of the earth produced by the action of the sun and moon .
In the other type the motion of the shell is closely analogous to the motion of a rigid body when slightly disturbed from a motion of pure rotation about a principal axis , and , in fact , identifies itself with such an oscillation in the event of the inertia of the fluid becoming negligible .
On applying the problem to the case of the earth , the latter mode is that on which the variations of latitude depend .
The period , however , is found to be shorter than it would be if the fluid were solidified , and thus , in this particular case , M. FOLIE'S results are contradicted .
It appears to me to be highly probable that any such freedom in the interior of the earth as that supposed by M. FOLLY , provided the surface does not undergo deformation , would have the of reducing , instead of extending , the period , and the true explanation of the phenomenon is probably that given by NEWCOMB Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society , ' March , 1892 ) , who shows that the elasticity of the earth , as a whole , would have the eifect of prolonging the period .
S1 .
The Period Equation .
us refer to rectangular axes coincident with the principal axes of the ellipsoidal cavi by .
ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
Let be the principal semi-axes of this cavity ; the principal moments of inertia of the shell .
Suppose the motion of the fluid at any tant consists of a rigid body rotation with angular velocities about the axes of the ellipsoid , compounded with the irrotational motion consequent on giving the shell additional an gular velocities The velocity-potential of the irrotational motiou will be The yelocity-components will therefore be ( 1 ) .
Hence , if be components of angular momentum , and denote the mass of the fluid , its density , ( wy\mdash ; vz ) ( 2 ) , ( vx\mdash ; uy ) where , . . . . .
( 3 ) .
If the system be disturbed from a motion of pure rotation , with angular velocity about the axis of will all be small quantities , while will be approximately equal to , and hence , on omitting small quantities of the second order and putting in small terms , the equations of angular nlomentum , viz. :\mdash ; where ) become HELMHOLTZ'S equations of vortex motion are ' Hence , if we put each proportional to , and introduce , for brevity , the notation \amp ; c. , .
Eliminating , the period equation is ' ' ' ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
On expanding and arranging according to powers , this determinant reduces to .
( 5 ) .
S2 .
Case of Shell without Inertia .
If the shell be so thin that we may neglect its inertia compared with that of the fluid , we may put , and equation ( 5 ) then becomes ( 6 ) ; when the system is symmetrical about the axis of rotation , and this equation reduces to the roots of which are ( 7 ) .
These are the same as the values obtained by BRYAN ( ' Phil. Trans 1889 , p. 208 ) , for the case of a spheroid whose surface is free .
As is there indicated , the modes of oscillation corresponding to these periods are such that the surface of the spheroid maintains its shape , but changes its position .
Such oscillations wiil , of course , not be affected by supposing the fluid contained in a rigid shell without inertia , and we might have expected to obtain the same values for the periods , when the figure of the shell agrees with a possible figure of equilibriu1n of the fluid rotating freely .
From ( 7 ) we see that the roots , if real , are positive ; in order that they may be real , we require that and must have the same sign .
Hence a necessary condition for ordinary stability is or i.e. , must not lie between and Returning to the case where , in order that the roots may be real and positive , we must have ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) The 1st condition requires that should not lie between and Now The 1st form shows bhat condition ( 2 ) is certainly satisfy if and also The 2nd shows that it is satisfied if and Lastly , Hence condition ( 3 ) will certainly be satisfied if and also , or if and also Thus the roots of ( 6 ) will both be real and positive if and also or if and also These conditions are sufficient , but not necessary , to ensure stability ; the necessary conditions are given by the inequalities ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) .
Tho analytical conditions here discussed are approximately realised in the case of a liquid gyrostat mounted on gimbals in such a way that the centre of gravity is held at rest .
The inel.tia of the gimbal-rings will be unimportant when the rotation is rapid , and , if we may also neglect the in ertia of the case compared with that of the fluid , the gyrostat will be stable when set rotating about its least axis ; it will also be stable when set rotating about its greatest axis when this axis is , at leas , three times as great as either of the others .
It will , however , certainly be unstable when set rotating about its mean axis .
6 .
3 .
Approximate Solution of the Period Equation .
Let us for the future suppose that the cavity which contains fluid is approximately spherical , so that small quantities .
ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
Suppose From ( 3 ) we have ; therefore , if we neglect squares of say .
In the case where the thickness of the shel ] is finite compared with its linear dimensions will be a finite quantity ; when the shell is thin will be large , and when the .
fluid nucleus is small compared with the dimensions of the whole system will be small , the densities of the fluid and of the being supposed comparable with one another .
In all cases will be positive .
If are each equal to zero , the equation ( 5 ) becomes or Thus we obtain as a first approximation to the oots Next let us retain first powers of in ( 5 ) ; this equation then becomes or ( 8 ) ; dividing by , and putting in the terms which contain or as a factor , we obtain as a closer approximation to the root say . . . . .
( 9 ) , therefore .
Again , dividing by in ( 8 ) , and putting in the small terms , an approximate value of the second root , correct to first powers of , is given by ' or ( 10 ) to the same order of approximation .
This approximation involves the assumption that are small compared with C\mdash ; A C\mdash ; B , ; the approximate value of the root will , however , be the same if we suppose to be small quantities of the same order as Let us put Retaining only finite terms in ( 5 ) , we obtain as a first approximation to the roots and ; also , the independent term in ( 5 ) is a small quantity of the second order in .
Thus the root which approximates to X$0 will be of the second order .
Regarding as of the second order , and retaining only terms of this order in ( 5 ) , we get ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
or .
to the same order , and this is the value obtained above ( 10 ) .
S4 .
Application to the of the The nature of the two types of oscillation will be found fully discussed in the Appendix .
It is there shown that the oscillation corresponding to the root is that previously examined by HOPKINS in his ' Researches in Physical Geology , ' whereas the second type is analogous to the motion of a rigid body when disturbed from a motion of rotation about a principal axis .
If the Earth could be regarded as a system such as we have been considering , we see that in addition to the ordinary Solar and Lunar Nutations , which would be of the same nature as when the Earth is supposed solid throughout , there might exist certain free nutations the amplitude of which could only be determined by observation .
If the amplitudes were sufficiently large , the oscillations corresponding to the root would render themselves visible in the same way as the Solar and Lunar Nutations , namely , by small periodic displacements common to all stars .
The period of these displacements would be sidereal days , and a of would enable us to determine , a quantity which depends on the form of the internal surface and the thi\amp ; ness of the crust .
The oscillations which correspond to bhe root would manifest themselves in a different manner .
They are , in fact , similar to .
the " " Eulerian\ldquo ; nutation ( vide TISSERAND , ' Mecanique Ce'leste , ' vol. 2 , p. 494 ) , and will involve a smaH periodic change in the latitude of places on the Earth 's surface , as found by meridian observations of a circumpolar star , his change taking place in a period of sidereal days .
Now it appears probable that in osci]lations of long period , such as Precession , the effects of fluid friction would be to make the internal fluid move with the crust as if rigidly connected to it ( TISSERAND , 'Mecanique Celeste , ' vol. 2 , p. 480 , or Lord KELVIN , 'Popular Lectures and Addresses , ' vol. 2 , p. 244 ) .
Hence , if % , % , be the principal moments of inertia for the Earth as a whole , supposed symmetrical about its axis of rotation , the heory of Precession will still enable us c-a to determine the value of , as But , if we put , and denote by the mass of the fluid , Therefore , very nearly .
Therefore the period in which the latitude variations will take place is sidereal days sidereal days ; when the Earth is supposed solid throughout , this period is a sidereal days .
We thus see that if the Earth consisted of a rigid shell containing a homogeneous fluid nucleus , the theoretical period of 305 days , calculated on the assumption of the Earth 's rigidity throughout , would be dimimished in the ratio 1 : , where is an essentially positive quantity , whose magnitude increases with the size of the nucleus .
In order to form some idea of the magnitude of this , let us suppose that the fluid and the crust have the same density , and that are the mean radii of the fluid nucleus , and of the Earth as a whole .
We then have approximately and .
Therefore , and the period will be diminished by days .
Taking the mean radius of the Earth as 4000 miles , we obtain the following table , where the first line gives the thickness of the crust in miles , and the second the diminution of the period in sidereal days : ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL 0ONTAINING FLUID .
Now , although in the light of Professor NEWCOMB'S work ( ' Astron. Soc. Monthly Notices , ' March , 1892 ) , it appears probable that this effect would be modified by the eIasticity of the Crust , it could scarcely be reversed if the fluid nucleus were of any considerable extent .
We must , therefore , conclude that the observations on Iatitudevariation , so far from establishing the existence of a fluid interior , as supposed by M. FOLLY , rather tend to confirm the views hitherto maintained by physicists on other grounds , that there can be no internal fluid mass of any considerable extent .
APPENDIX .
TREATMENT 0F THE PROBLEM BY LAME ANALYSIS .
S1 .
Equations of Motion of Fluid .
Let us refer to rectangular axes rotating with angular velocity about the axis of .
The fluid is supposed to have no motion relatively to these axes other than that due to the small oscillations with which we are dealing .
Let , be the velocity-components at any point relatively to these axes : we shall , as is usual in small-oscillation problems , neglect squares and products of the small quantities The actual velocity-components parallel to the instantaneous positions of the moving axes will be and the differential equations of motion of the fluid are therefore ( BASSET , 'Hydrodynamics , ' p. 22 ) , , , where is the gravitation-potential of the forces to which the fluid is subject , the fluid-pressure , and the density .
Putting . . .
( 1 ) , the above equations reduce to .
( 2 ) .
We have , in addition , the equation of continuity . . .
( 3 ) .
Equations ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) are sufficient to determine , subject to certain boundary conditions .
From ( 2 ) we obtain ( 4 ) .
Applying the operators , and adding , we obtain by means of ( 3 ) , where or , by the third of equations ( 2 ) , ( 5 ) .
This is POINCARE'S differential equation for the oscillations of a mass of fluid about a steady motion of pure rotation .
Let us now suppose that the system is executing one of its component harmonic vibrations .
Assume that and Putting these values in ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) , and dividing out by the time factor , we get ( 6 ) , while .
satisfies the equation ( 7 ) .
ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUTD .
S2 .
Boundary Conditions .
The position of the shell at any instant may be defined by means of three coordinates , , which denote the small angular displacements , about the axes of reference , of the shell from the position it would occupy in the steady motion .
displacements parallel to the coordinate axes of the point of the shell , whuse coordinates are , are If be the direction cosines of the normal to the undisturbed surface , the normal distance between this surface and the displaced surface will be zcos .
The condition to be satisfied at the boundary is that the rate of increase of this length must be equal to the component velocity of the fluid , relative to the moving axes , in the direction of the normal to the undisturbed surface .
Now as these relative velocities are all small quantities whose squares we are neglecting , it is unnecessary to distinguish between the velocities at the disturbed and undisturbed surfaces ; thus , at the latter surface we require .
Putting \amp ; c. , and omitting the exponential factor , we obtain ; or , putting in the values of from ( 6 ) , - ( 8 ) .
Let us now put Corresponding to any series of points whose coordinates are denoted by , we shall obtain a new series whose coordinates are which will be real or imaginary according as is greater or less than .
We will take as the standard case that in which If the point trace out any surface whose equation is , the corresponding point trace out a new surface whose equation is The part of this latter surface which corresponds to the real part of the surface will , however , be purely imaginary if If , be the direction-cosines of the normals to the two surfaces , we have Substituting in equations ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) , the differential equation for takes the form .
( 9 ) , while if be the equation to the undisturbed boundary of the flnid , must satisfy the equation ( 10 ) at the surface The problem of finding the motion of the fluid is thus reduced to that of obtaining solutions of equation ( 9 ) consistent with the boundal.y condition ( 10 ) at the surface S3 .
Case of Surface .
Hitherto , no assumption has been made as to the form of the surface of the fluid .
Let us now suppose that it is given by the equation ( ) , ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
that is to say , that it is an ellipsoid whose principal axes coincide with the axes of reference .
We will take as the standard case , that in which Put The equation to the auxiliary surface becomes .
Let us now introduce two sets of elliptic coordinates , connected with respectively by the equations ( 11 ) , ' , will be equal to for points which lie on the surfaces ( A ) ( A ) , but not otherwise .
Let us also put , , ( 13 ) for points on these surfaces ; so that X , are subject to the relation . . . . .
( ) .
X , may therefore be l.egarded as the coordinates of a point lying on a sphere of unit radius .
Denote by three conjugate Lame functions of the elliptic coordinates , and by three similar functions of the coordinates A form of solution of equation ( 9 ) convenient for satisfying boundary conditions at the surface ( A ) is . . . . . . . . .
( 14 ) .
effect of the fluid on the motion of the shell will depend only on the fluid pressure over the surface , and this by ( 1 ) will involve the value of at the surface .
To find the value of at the surface ( A ) , we may transform the expression ( 14 ) for first to the surface ( B ) and then from ( B ) to ( A ) .
Now , by a known property of Lame products ( vide HEINE , ' Kngelfunctionen , ' vol. 1 , S89 ) , if be two conjugate functions of order , the product MN at the surface ( A ) will transform into a surface harmonic of order at the surface ( B ) ; and , conversely , any surface harmonic of order at the surface ( B ) , when transformed to the surface ( A ) , can be expanded in a series consisting of Lame products with constant coefficients , each of which products will be of the order .
The same conclusions will hold for the surface ( A ) and the sphere ( B ) .
We can thus express the value of at the surface ( A ) in terms of a series of Lame products , in which each term will be of the same order as that from which it arises in ( 14 ) .
The couples on the shell due to fluid pressure are , , , where is an element of the surface and the integrals are taken over the whole surface .
If denote the perpendicular from the centre on the tangent plane to the ellipsoid ( A ) and l and is proportional to where are two conjugate Lame functions of the second order .
But , if MN be any two conjugate Lame functions different from .
For , if we transform to the surface of the sphere ( B ) , is equal to the corresponding element of the spherical surface , and transform into two different surface harmonics .
Thus the only term in which can give rise to any couple about the axis of will be the term involving the Lame product Similarly the terms which can give rise to couples about the other axes will be of the second order .
as we have seen above , all arise from terms of the second order in ( 14 ) , and , in order to evaluate these couples , it will be unnecessary for us to calculate any coefficients other than those of terms of the second order .
ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
S4 .
Transformation of Equations .
Let us now transform our boundary conditions to the surface of the sphere ( B ) .
We can at once express the right-hand member of equation ( 10 ) in terms of X , ; for where has the same signi{ication with reference to the ellipsoid ( A ) as has with reference to the ellipsoid ( A ) .
The right-hand member therefore becomes ( 15 ) .
Consider next a single term of order in , say .
We have seen that is expressible in the form , where is some quantity which does not vary over the surface of the sphere ( B ) and , is a spherical harmonic function of degree in X , If denote an element of the normal to the surface ( A ) , we have and therefore , Now are independent of .
Therefore , when ( 16 ) .
Next let be an element of a line through whose direction-cosines are , and which , therefore , lies in the surface Then and when .
( 17 ) .
Now , the element lies entirely in the surface , and corresponding to every point of it there will be a point X , which lies on the sphere ( B ) .
Hence , as do not vary over the surface of the sphere , they will remain constant as we pass along the element .
Thus we have ; and , therefore , from ( 17 ) But from ( 13 ) we see that eosec Therefore , and ( 18 ) .
From ( 15 ) , ( 16 ) , ( 18 ) we see that the boundary equation , on the assumption of the form ( 14 ) for , takes the form ( 19 ) .
Now the fimction X is itself a spherical harmonic function of order and both and X may be expressed as linear functions of the independent harmonics of the nth order .
ROTATTNG ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
omitting for the present the terms of the second order , if we equate to zero the coefficients of the independent harmonics , we shall obtain a series of linear equations connecting the quantities which occur with products of order .
These equations show that all the quantities vanish except for cerbain values of A satisfy the determinantal equation obtained by eliminating them .
The roots of this equation will determine the possible periods of free oscillation , and when the system is .
oscillating in the mode corresponding to any one of these roots , Lame products of one order ( n ) only will appear in These modes of oscillation do not any motion of the shell , and it is evident that they could not be generated or destroyed by any disturbance communicated to the shell , if the fluid be free from viscosity .
We proceed now to examine more closely the modes which depend on terms of the second order .
As we have seen above , terms of different orders correspond to different fundamental modes ; and therefore we may for the future suppose that the order terms alone exist in S5 .
Lame ' ctions of Second Order .
A Lame function of order is a function of one of the four forms .
where denotes a rational , integral , algebraic function of of degree , and satisfies the differential equation ( 20 ) , where is a suitably chosen constant .
The Lame functions of the second order are , , the three functions . . .
( 21 ) , together with two functions of the form . . . . . . .
( 22 ) .
To find these latter functions , substitute in equation ( 20 ) with ; we obtain Equating coefficients of , and the terms independent of , we get Eliminating , the values of are given by . . .
( 23 ) .
Let us now apply the formulae ( 16 ) , ( 18 ) , to the different forms of ; take first .
At the surface . .
Therefore , when from ( 16 ) from ( 18 ) ( 24 ) . .
Similarly , when , at the surface , and ' ; and when ) Take , now , the .
When , RMN ; ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
but are the three roots of the equation in therefore , ; putting in this identity , we obtain RMN , and , therefore , at the surface RMN or , since by ( 23 ) , RMN therefore , when , and if .
( 27 ) , and or since an equation similar to ( 23 ) , \mdash ; ( 28 ) .
Let us denote by , the two values of , and assume that From equations ( 24 ) . .
( 28 ) , we see that ( 19 ) now takes the form ( 29 ) .
S 6 .
of Coefficients in Equating coefficients of in the two members of ( 29 ) .
( 30 ) .
Multiply the first of these by 2 and add to the second .
Reducing by means of ( 23 ) we obtain ( 31 ) .
Multiply by und subtracl from the first of equations ( 30 ) ; then ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHEhL CONTAINING FLUID .
But if we equate coefficients of XY in ( 29 ) we obtain Hence or or ( 32 ) .
Again , equating coefficients of in ( 29 ) , we have or , since ( 33 ) .
Now , as we have seen above , which by ( 30 ) is equal to and this by means of ( 30 ) and ( 31 ) reduces to Hence the complete value of is ( 34 ) where are given in terms of by equations ( 32 ) , ( 33 ) .
From equations ( 6 ) , ( 34 ) it will be seen that , in the motions with which we are dealing , are linear functions of .
Hence the components of molecular rotation of the fluid , which involve first differential of , will be independent of .
This justifies the assumption made in S1 of the paper .
S7 .
of Couples on the Shell due to Fluid Pressure .
At any point of the fluid the pressure is given by ( 1 ) ; we have , viz.:\mdash ; Let us now refer to a new set of rectangular axes , , coincident with the principal axes of the ellipsoid in its displaced position .
The direction-cosines of one set of axes relatively to the other are given by the scheme ( 35 ) .
Hence ROTATING IPSOJDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
and , neglecting squares of , we obtain . . .
( 36 ) , where in the small term we may replace by If denote the couples on the shell about the axes where is an element of the surface of the ellipsoid , and the integrals are taken over the whole surface .
Let us now consider separately the parts of these couples introduced by the different terms in the expression ( 36 ) for Take The pressure at every point is the same as if the fluitd were at rest under a otential V will , in general , consist of three parts due respectively to the attraction of the shell ; the mutual attraction of the fluid particles ; any external attracting system .
If the part ( a ) gave rise to any couple , it would be exactly counterbalanced by the couple on the shell due to the attraction of the fluid , since the attractions of the shell on the fluid nd of the fluid on the shell are equal and opposite .
The system of forces also form a system in equilibrium , and , therefore , can give rise to no resultant couple on the shell .
Thus no couple can arise from the mutual attractions of the parts of the system .
The pressure at any point due to the part is the same as if the fluid were at rest .
Thus the couples due to any external attracting system will be the same as if the fluid were supposed to be solidified .
If we add to these couples , due to the attraction of the external system on the fluid , the parts due to the direct attraction on the shell , we see that the total couples due to any external system will be the same as if our system were solid throughout .
Take .
Integrating over the surface of the ellipsoid we have \amp ; c. Therefore , and the corresponding part of is Similarly the parts of arising from this part of are and Lastly , if ecting the different parts , we obtain for the couples , provided there be mo external disturbing force , ( 37 ) , ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTATNING FLUID .
where , for brevit .
, we have put , ( 38 ) .
The terms in arising from ( b ) are due to the force of the fluid , and occur in consequence of axis of rotation of the shell not accurately coinciding with that of the fluid , while the terms ( c ) are due to the effective inertia of the fluid .
S 8 .
Dynamical Equations of Motion of the Shell .
Let be the principal moments of inertia of the shell ; the angular velocities about the principal axes .
The position of the shell at time may be found from its position at time by giving it a small rotation St about Oz , followed by rotations St , St , St about the positi.ons of the axes Ox , Oy , Oz at time The direction-cosines of these latter axes relerred to their position at time are .
Hence , resolving the rotations in the directions of the axes Ox , Oy , Oz at time the component angular displacements are S , @ , @ , and the angular velocities about the axes Ox , Oy , Oz are Resolving these about the axes we see from the scheme ( 35 ) that ( 39 ) .
EULER'S equations of motion are where , if the system be subject to no external disturbing force , have the values given in ( 37 ) .
If there be any external attracting system we must to the right-hand metnbers the couples due to this system , estimated as though the system were rigid throughout .
In dealing with the " " free\ldquo ; oscillations , however , we may omit these terms .
Introducing the values of from ( 39 ) and omitting small quantities of bhe second order Hence , on replacing by their values ( 37 ) , putting , \amp ; c. , and omitting the time factor , we obtain ( 40 ) from ( 32 ) Hence the freedom defined by the coordinate is neutral , and a disturbance , which causes the coordinate to vary , will not give rise to an oscillatory motion .
From ( 33 ) the values of are given by ( 41 ) .
Eliminating from ( 40 ) , ( 4 ] ) by means of a determinant , the periods of free oscillation are given by , .
, ROTATING IPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
S9 .
Reduction of Period Expanding out this deternlinant , we obtain . . . . . . . .
( 42 ) .
Now since . . .
( 43 ) .
and Hence substituting in ( 42 ) we obtain the following cubic for : Let us now change our notation , replacing by ; the period equation may then be written . . . .
( 44 ) .
If we , the left-hand member of ( 44 ) becomes therefore is always one root of ( 44 ) .
Arranging ( 44 ) according to powers of , we have Dividing out by the factor , we are left with ROTATING LLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
or ( 45 ) .
In order that the system may satisfy the criteria for ordinary\ldquo ; stability the roots of this equation in must be real and positive .
The period equation ( 45 ) agrees with the equation ( 5 ) ( S1 ) , and the solution of it , in the case in which the ellipsoid differs but slightly from a sphere is given in S3 .
S 10 .
Nature of the From equations we see that the equations giving the ratios of the quantities are ( 46 ) .
We have seen that in every case is one root of the period equation ; when the equations ( 46 ) reduce to which are satisfied by Suppose where is a real quantity ; we have as one solution Changing the sign of wherever it occurs , another solution is given by and this corresponds to the value of Combining these two solutions we get as the real motion corresponding to the root .
Now serve to determine the position of that principal axis which in the steady motion coincides with the axis of rotation , relatively to axes which are themselves revolving with angular velocity Let us consider the angular displacements relatively to fixed axes coincident with the position occupied by the moving axes at the time ; they are and these are constant quantities .
rrhus , the apparent oscillation which corresponds to the root , consists of a small permanent displacement of the axis of rotation , and the system rotates as if rigid about an axis which does not accurately coincide with our axis Oz .
It is obvious that if be angular velocity of rotation about this axis , the system and the oving axes Ox , , Oz will return to their original positions after an interval , and , therefore , the system will appear to osciIlate in a period relatively to these moving axes .
It is easy to see that the fluid motion , indicated by the analysis , also consists of a motion of pure rotation .
For when Therefore , from ( 34 ) , and from ( 6 ) , ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
whence and , in the corresponding real solution , , These are the component velocities relatively to the moving axes .
The velocities parallel to the instantaneous positions of the moving axes are The velocities parallel to the fixed , are therefore Thus the fluid motion is a motion of pure rotation , the component angular velocifie , about the axes being The resultant of these angular velocities is an angular velocity about the line whose direction cosines are .
The similar case for the spheroid with a free surface ) been already discussed by BRYAN ( ' Phil. Trans 1889 ) .
( b ) .
Next take say where .
Substituting this of in ( 46 ) and putting , \amp ; c. , we obtain ( 47 ) .
These equations are correct as far as first powers of only .
Solving for the ratios of , we have ' or where the denominators are correct as far as first powers of \amp ; c. , only .
Replacing by its value we obtain ( 48 ) .
Taking we have and , in the colTesponding real motion , , .
The angular displacements , relatively to the fixed axes , at time are ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
50 .
Thus the motion of the principal axis consists approximately of a simple harmonic motion in period , in virtue of which it describes a small cone about its mean position in a direction opposite to that in which the system is The position of the instantaneous axis of rotation of the shell is defined by the direction cosines , or ; and since is approximately equal to , this axis will be very nearly coincident with bhe principal axis .
From ( 48 ) we have also and therefore from ( 34 ) to the same order of approximation we have Whence , in the corresponding real solution , \mdash ; , The velocity components relative to the fixed axes therefore the motion of the fluid will consist very tely of a rotation , as if , with )ular velocity about the line whose direction-cosines are .
This axis will itself cribe a cone in period , and it will be so situated that the axis Oz lies in the } ) lane cining the axes of revolution of the fluid and of the shell , and is between hese two axes .
The selni-vertical angles of the cones described by the axes of rotation of fluid and the shell will be in the ratio 3 : The motion under discussion is that which would ensue if the shell were set rotating about its principal axis , while the possessed a rotatory motion in the period about some other axis .
It is clear , that , and consequently diminish , the period of oscillation will be prolonged ; is to say , the motion of the axes of rotation ] become slower .
This motion will be reduced to zero when vanish .
In this case the internal surface of the shell is spherical , and the shell and fluid , of course , move independently .
So far as this ( apparent ) oscillation concerned , they will each be rotating with angular velocity , but about different From the expression for the ratio of the amplitudes , we see that when is large , that is when the effective of the fluid is large , compaled with that of the shell , the disturbance of the shell will be considerable , compared with that of the fluid ; whereas if be small , the distnrbance of the shell bears to that of the fluid , a ratio which approximates to , but is always excess of , 1 : 3 .
This oscillation has been previously examined by HOPKINS ( ' Phil. rfrans lS39 ) certain special assumptions , as to the initial circumstances , and to the law of distribution of density in the shell . .
, suppose ) .
pproximate form of equations ( 46 ) is now Hence approximately , and , say ; ROTATING ELLIPSOIDAL SHELL CONTAINING FLUID .
therefore The corresponding solution is , .
The angular displacements about are therefore The motion of the principal axis in space consists , therefore , of a combination of two simple harmonic motions , the period of each being approximately equal to the period of rotation of the system , and the amplitudes being in the ratio ; in virtue of each of these oscillations , the principal axis will describe a cone of revolution in the direction in which the system is rotating .
In the event of the system being symmetrical about the axis of rotation and , in this case the amplitude of one of the oscillations reduces to zero .
We have likewise , , , rfhe motion of the instantaneous axis of rotation of the shell is therefore in all respects similar to that of the principal axis , but the semi-vertical angles of the cones described are smaller in the ratio The direction-cosines of the instantaneous axis referred to the principal axes of the shell are , or , ; therefore , relatively to the shell , the instantaneous axis describes a cone in period This motion would ensue if the shell were started rotating about an axis not coincident with its principal axis , and it is analogous to the motion of a rigid body under no forces when slightly disturbed from a motion of pure rotation about a principal axis .

