550 Prof. W. C. Williamson .
On the [ June 17 , owing to the available energy being greater in the former than in the latter case .
In conclusion , we would commend this aluminium-iodine reaction to the consideration of other chemists , who may be investigating organic compounds containing oxygen .
V. Preliminary Note on the Ossification of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits .
" By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. , and F. A. Dixey , B.A. Received June 3 , 1880 .
The diaphyses of the ungual phalanges of the digits offer an exception to the usual mode of ossification of diaphysial bones ( including the other phalanges ) in the fact that the calcification of the cartilage and its attendant changes begins at the tip and not in the centre of the diaphysis .
The subperiosteal intramembranous ossification also commences at the same point\#151 ; the tip , namely , of the cartilage\#151 ; as a cap-like expansion over the end of the cartilage .
The irruption of the osteoblastic subperiosteal tissue also first occurs here , so that this part seems to correspond morphologically with the centre of the shaft of other long bones .
The expanded portion of the phalanx which bears the nail , claw , or hoof , is entirely formed by an outgrowth of the subperiosteal bone , and is not preceded by cartilage .
A detailed account of the mode of ossification of these phalanges will be shortly published .
VI .
" On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
Part XI , " By W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester .
Received June 3 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) M. Renault has recently published a memoir , in which he reproduces the views of M. Brongniart respecting the relations which the Lepidodendra bear to the Sigillarise , still insisting that the former are cryptogamic Lycopods , whilst the latter are exogenous G-ymnosperms .
In endeavouring to establish this position , the French paleeo-botanist concludes that if the exogenous Diploxyloid stems Sigillarian ones ) are but matured states of some Lepidodendra , every Sigillarian type of organisation ought to be found in a young or Lepidodendroid form , because , he contends , the type of the central organisation , once established , undergoes no further change .
with advancing age .
In support of his position , he affirms that there are three such Sigillarian 1880 .
] Organisation of Fossil Plants of Coal-measures .
551 types , viz. , Sigillaria vascularis ; 2 .
Diploxyloid stems ; 3 .
Favularia and Leiodermaria .
At present he contends that only the second of these forms has been discovered in Lepidodendron Harcourtii .
He further believes that there are three types of Lepidodendron known , represented by\#151 ; 1 .
L. Rhodumense , with a solid central vascular axis , in which the vessels are not intermingled with medullary cells ; 2 .
by L. Harcourtii , in which the vascular axis is a cylinder surrounding a cellular medulla ; and , 3 .
An undescribed plant , which he names L. Jutieri , in which the vascular cylinder is broken up into detached bundles of vessels .
The author of the present paper considers that the above conclusions are not in accordance with the facts , and he proceeds to give his reasons for this conclusion by demonstrating that we certainly have two of the three supposed Sigillarian types represented in a young or Lepidodeudroid state\#151 ; the first by Lepidodendron vasculare of Binney , and the second by L. Harcourtii , whilst , judging from M. Renault 's own description , the L. Jutieri represents the third type .
On the other hand , the author believes that of M. Renault 's three Lepidoden-droid types the first is only a young state of the second , as illustrated by the development of the Burntisland and Arran Lepidodendra described in previous memoirs , whilst the able Frenchman appears not to have been acquainted with the existence of the very characteristic type of the L. vasculare of Binney .
The author gives the series of facts upon which his opinions are based by tracing the history of the development , first , of Lepidodendron Selaginoides , the L. vasculare of Binney , and , second , of L. Harcourtii .
Commencing with the declaration that the Lepidodendron vasculare of Mr. Binney is but the young state of the Sigillaria vascularis of the same author , he proceeds to show the successive stages by which the vasculo-cellular medullary axis of the former becomes not only enclosed within the exogenous cylinder of the latter , but that this cylinder ultimately develops into a very conspicuous example of the Diploxyloid form of stem .
The growth of the exogenous cylinder begins at one point of the periphery of the vasculo-medullary axis , from which point it extends both laterally and radially .
The exogenous growth thus first appears in the transverse section of the Lepidoden-droid twig as a small crescent , thickest at its centre , but whose two horns creep gradually round the medullary axis , its constituent \ as-cular wedges also growing radially as the lateral growth advances , until at length the exogenous zone forms a complete ring , enclosing the vasculo-medullary axis , in which state it becomes the Sigillaria vascularis of Mr. Binney and M. Renault .
The various stages of this growth are represented in the plates , in addition to which a section is described and figured of a branch about to dichotomise , in which pi excess the vasculo-medullary axis has divided into two equal halves , one Prof. W. C. Williamson .
On the [ June 17 , being destined for each branch .
One of these halves of the vasculo-medullary axis displays , with the utmost distinctness , the characteristic crescentic commencement of an exogenous zone , whilst the other half retains its primary non-exogenous state .
The latter condition thus belongs to the Lepidodendron vasculare of Binney , whilst the former as clearly represents the Sigillaria vascularis of the same author , and the Sigillarian character of which is recognised by M. Renault .
We thus have in one stem two branches , one of which , according to the views of the French savant , is a Cryptogamic Lycopod , and the other a Gymnospermous Sigillaria .
The remarkable peculiarities characterising the central axis of these specimens makes it absolutely certain that they all belong to one species of plant .
The typical Lepidodendron Harcourtii is then examined in a similar manner .
In the details of its organisation it differs materially from L. Selaginoides , nevertheless as its growth progresses it displays typically similar changes .
It attains to much larger dimensions than the latter plant does before developing its exogenous zone , corresponding in this respect with the Arran plant .
Its earlier changes are chiefly seen in the rapid development of the bast or prosenchymatous layer of the outer bark and in the increase in the size and number of the vessels constituting its vasculo-medullary cylinder or medullary sheath\#151 ; the " etui medullaire " of Brongniart ; but in more advanced specimens a cylindrical zone of centrifugally developed vascular wedges begins to make its appearance in a quasi-cambian zone of the cells of the inner bark , these cells being arranged in more or less regular radiating lines .
In this state the rudimentary vascular zone corresponds very closely to what is seen in young stems and roots of some Cycads .
The author shows that , contrary to the views of M. Renault , very marked changes take place in the development of the vascular bundles destined for the secondary branches of the plant .
In the first instance , each of these is but a concavo-convex segment of the entire vasculo-medullary cylinder , whose detachment leaves a large gap in the continuity of that cylinder , which , however , soon becomes closed again by the convergence of the disconnected ends of the broken vascular circle .
The concavo-convex , detached segment undergoes a similar change .
Its two extremities meet , and before it escapes from the outermost bark , it has assumed the cylindrical form of its parent stem .
The rootlets of Stigmaria ficoides , now , well known to belong alike to Lepidodendron and to Sigillaria , present some peculiarities of structure which are only found in the Lycopodiaceas and the Ophio-glossse , amongst living plants .
The vascular bundle in the interior of each Stigmarian rootlet is enclosed within a very regularly circular cylinder , composed of the cells of the innermost bark ; but the position of the bundle in relation to the cylinder is always , unless accidentally disturbed , an eccentric 1880 .
] Organisation of Fossil Plants the Coal-measures .
553 one .
This position has not escaped notice , hut it was regarded as accidental , but it now proves to be a normal one .
The bundle begins to appear in very young roots , as one or two very small vessels developed in close union with the innermost cells of one side of the cylinder within which it is located ; newer and larger vessels are gradually added centripetally , until the bundle occupies a considerable portion of the area enclosed by the inner bark cylinder .
The remaining space is usually empty , but occasionally specimens are found in which it is filled with small delicate cells that have escaped destruction .
These represent what in the living Lycopods are liber-cells .
The outer cortical layer of the root , composed of well preserved and rather thick walled cells , is usually separated from the inner cylinder by a similar lacuna ; but in a few specimens the cells of this usually destroyed middle bark are retained in good preservation .
They consist of very delicate thin-walled parenchyma , separated by a sharp line of demarcation equally from the innermost and outermost cortical cylinders .
The number of the vessels in each of the vascular bundles given off from any one section of a Stigmarian root is found to vary but little , but they steadily increase , both in number and size , with the size and age of the root .
Young specimens of Stigmarian roots are described , the smallest of which is not more than one-fifth of an inch in diameter , and the vascular bundles of its small rootlets consists each of from three to five minute vessels .
In the largest rootlets from old roots they number about forty , most of the additional ones being* of larger size 5 intermediate examples exhibit a regulai gradation on all these points .
The only living plants which possess rootlets with this structure being Lycopodiacece and Ophioglossae , and it being sufficiently cleai that the Lepidodendra belong to the former and not to the latter order of Cryptogams , the existence of this Lycopodiaceous feature in the rootlets of Sigillaria is another indication of the Lycopodiaceous affinities of these plants .
Many of the Diploxyloid forms of the Lycopodiaceous stems of the Coal-measures have an abundant development of spiral or barred cells in their numerous medullary rays .
Among living plants this characteristic seems to be almost , if not wholly , confined to the Grjm-nosperms .
Two important additional observations have been made in reference to the structure of the curious Strobilus , Calamostachys Binneyana .
The exact mode of the attachment of its sporangia to the Equiseti-form sporangiophores has been .ascertained ; but what is still more important , it has also been discovered that it is provided with both micro- and macro-spores\#151 ; an additional indication of its probable Lycopodiaceous affinities , already suggested by other features of the fruit .
Mr. E. R. Lankester .
[ June 17 , The recently discovered fungi of the Coal-measures are investigated , especially the Pernosporites antiquiorum of Mr. Worthington Smith .
The author finds , in the specimens he has examined , including that described by Mr. Smith , no traces of septa in the hyphae or of Zoospores in the Oogonia .
He concludes that its affinities are probably with the Saprologniee , and not with the Pernosporeae .
VII .
" Note on the Discovery of a Fresh Water Medusa of the Order Trachomedusse .
" By E. Ray Lankester , F.R.S. Received June 15 , 1880 .
[ Publication deferred .
]

