II .
" O nX the Relation between Boiling-point and Composition in Organic Cotmpounids .
" By HERMIANN Kopp , Esq. Coilmiiunicated by Dr. HOFMANN .
Received March 20 .
, 1860 .
( Abstract .
) The author was the first to observe ( in 1 841 ) that , on comparing pairs of analogous organic compounids , the same difference in boiling-point corresponds frequently to the same difference in composition .
This relation between boiling-po-int and composition , whenl first pointed out , was repeatedly denied , but is now generally admitted .
The continued experimenits of the author , as well as of numerous other inquirers , have since fixed many boiling-poilnts which had hitherto remained undetermined , and corrected such as had been inaccurately observed .
In the present paper the author has collected his experimental determiniations , and has givenl a survey of all the facts satisfactorily established up to the present moment regarding the relations between boiling-point and composition .
The several propositionis previously announced by the author were:1 .
An alcohol , COn 1H ?
+202 , differing in composition from ethylic alcohol ( C411602 , boiling at 78 ?
C. ) by x C0112 , more or less , boils x 19 ' higher or lower than ethylic alcohol .
2 .
The boiling-point of an acid , CHn 041 is 400 higher than that of the corresponding alcohol , CnI 6J+202 , 3 .
The boiling-point of a compound ether is 82 ' higher than the boiling-point of the isomeric acid , C0b1-l04 .
These propositions supply the means of calculating the boilingpoints of all alcohols , C(Hn.+2 02 ; of all acids , CnHnO4 ; of all compound ethers , C0 , ,H104 .
The author coiltrasts the values thus calculated for these substances with the available results of direct observation .
The Table embraces eight alcohols , C.Hn ?
202 , nine acids , C'n'104 , and twenty-three compound ethers , C.2Hn04 ; the calculated boiling-points agree , as a general rule , with those obtained by experiment , as well as two boiling-points of one and the same substanice determined by different observers .
We are thus justified in assuming that the calculated boiling-point of other alcohols , acids , and ethers belonging to this series will also be found to coinicide with the results of observation .
The boiling-points of other monatomnic alcohols , Cn , I,102 , other monatomic acids , C0Hn04 , and other compound ethers , C.H.,04 , are closely allied with the series previously discussed .
A substance containing xC more or less than the analogous term of the previous class , in which the saime nulmber of oxygen and of hydrogen equivalents is present , boils xx 140 .
higher or lower ; or , what amlounts to the same thing , a difference of x-1 more or less of hydrogen lowers or raises the boiling-point by xx 50 .
Thus benzoic acid , 0411H604 , boils 8x 14 .
5 higher than propionic acid , C0 , r104 , or 8x 50 higher than cenanthylic acid , C0 , , 11-1404 ; cinnamate of ethyl , C , ,1I1,0 , , boils 10 x 140.5 higher thaii butyrate of ethyl , C12 -11204 , or 10 X 5 ' higher than pelargonnate of ethvl , C. 1 , H20 , , .
The author compares the boiling-points thus calculated for five alcohols , C. H,04 ; for six acids , Cn Hll,04 ; and for sixteenl compounid ethers , Cn , HT04 , with the res-ults of observation .
In almost all cases the concordance is sufficient .
The author demonistrates in the next place that in maniy series of compounds other than those hitherto considered , the elementary difference , xC2 2 , likewise involves a difference of xx 190 in the boiling-point .
He further shows that on comparing the boiling-points of the corresponding terms in the several series of homologous substances hitherto considered , many other constant differences in boilingpoint are found to corresponid to certain differences in composition .
Thus a monobasic acid is found to boil 440 higher than its ethyl compound , and 630 higher than its methyl compound ; and this constant relationt holds good even for acids other than those previously examined , e. g. for the substitution-products of acetic acid .
Also in substances which are not acids , the substitution of C , H or C2 113 for 11 , oc asionally involves a depressioni of the boiling-points respectively of 440 and 63 ?
; the relation , however , is by no means generally observed .
The author , in addition to the examples previously quoted , shows that compounds containing benzoyl ( C,4 H110 ) and benzyl ( C,11H7 ) boil 780 ( =4 x 14 ' 5+4 x 5 ?
) higher than the corresp-onding terms containing valeryl ( C , , , H,0 , ) and amyl ( C , , H , ) , a relation , however , which is likewise not generally met with .
He discusses , 1moreover , other coinlcidences and differences of boiling-points of compouinds differing in a like manner in composition .
Not in all homologous series does the elementary difference xC,11 involve a difference of xx 190 in boiling-point .
The author shows that this difference is greater for the hydrocarbor s , C.H , ,,6 and C.1H , +2 ; for the acetones and aldehydes , Cn , H EB02 ; for the so-called simple and mixed ethers , C , nlln+202 ; for the chlorides , bromides , and iodides of the alcohol radicals , Cn H , 1 , and for several other groups ; that it is , on the contrary , smaller for the anhydrides of mnonobasic acids , C , ,H , -206 ; for the ethers , CJI , ,,20s ( which may be formed either by the action of onie molecule of a dibasic acid , CnHn,208s , upon two molecules of a monatomic alcohol , C , ,H , +202 , or by the action of two molecules of a monobasic acid , CH , ,H , ,0 , , , upon one moleciile of a diatomic alcohol , 4J , ,1 ?
.+,204 ) , and several other series .
The author thinks that the unequial differences in boiling-points corresponding in different homologous series to the elementary difference xCG I2 , are prolbably regulated by a more general law , which will l)e found when the boiling-points of maniy substanices shall have been determined under pressures differing from those of the atmosplhere .
" From the observations at present at our disposal it may be affirmed as a general rule , that in homologous compounds belonging to the same series , the differences in boiling-points are proportiolal to the differences in the formulae .
Exceptions obtain only in cases when terms of a particular group are rather difficult to prepare , or when the substan-ces boil at a very high temperature , at which the observationis now at our command are for the most part unicertain .
Again , it may be affirmed that the difference in boiling-points , corresponding to the elerDentary difference C2H , ) , is in a great maniy series = 190 ; in some series greater , in some series less .
" The author proceeds to discuss the boiling-points of isomeric comllpounds .
HIe shows that in a great many cases isomeric compotunds belonging to the same type , and exhibiting the same chernical claracter , boil at the same temperature , and that there is nio reason why , for the class of bodies nie_ltioneed , this coincidence shiouldi not obtaila generally .
On the other haid , differenit boilling-points are observe :edl in isomeric compounds possessing a different chelmical character , althoiu h belonginto the same type ( e. g. acids and compound ethers , C/ 11,104 ; alcohols and ethers , C,111 , ,+202 ) , and in isomeric coIIIpounids belonging to different types ( e. g. allylic alcohol and acetone ) .
The author shows that the determiiination of the boiling-point of a substance , together withi ain inquiry into the compounds serially allied with it by their boiling-points , constitutes a valuable mneanis of fixing , the character of the substance , the type to which it belonogs and the series of homologous bodies of which it is a term .
lie quotes as an illustration eugeniic acid .
The boiling-point of this acid , C 20EI 24 ) is 1500 ; and on comparing this boiling-point with the boiling-points of benzoic acid , C,1 1H604 ( boiling-point 253 ?
) , and of hydride of salicyl , C14 G01 ( boiling-point 1960 ) , it is obvious that eugenic acid cannot be homologous to benzoic acid , whilst , on the other hancl , it becomes extremely probable that it is homologous to hydride of salicyl , and consequently that it belooigs rather to the aldehydes than to the acids proper .
The author , in colnclusion , calls attention to the importance of considering the chemical character in comparing the boiling-points of the volatile organic bases , and shows the necessity of distinguishing between the primary , secondary , and tertiary monamines in order to exhibit constanit differences of boiling-point for this class of substances .
He discusses the boiling-points of the several bases , CnIH , -I5N and CnHn+3N , and points out how in many cases the particular class to which a base belongs may be ascertained by the determiniation of the boiling-point .
The comprehensive recognition of definite relationis between composition and boiling-point is for the present chiefly limited to organic compounds .
But for the majority of these compounds , and inideed for the most important ones , this relation assumes the form of a simple law , which , more especially for the monatomic alcohols , Cn i-..O , for the monobasic acids , C.I.04 , and for the compounid ethers generated by the uniion of the two previous classes , is proved in the most general manner ; so much so , inldeed , that in many cases the determiniation of the boiling-point furnishes most material assistance in fixing the true positioni and character of a compound .
The author points out more especially that the simplest and most comprehensive relationis have been recogonized for those classes of orgyanic compounds which have been longest known and most accurately investigated , and that even for thoseclasses the generality and simplicity of the relationi , on account of numerous boiling-points incorrectly observed at an earlier date , appeared in the commencement doubtful , and could be more fully acknowledged only after a considerable number of new determinations .
Thus he considers himself justified in hoping that also in other classes of compounds , in which simple and comprehensive relations have not hitherto been traced , these relations will become perceptible as soon as the verification of the boiling-points of terms already known , and the examination of new terrns , shall have laid a broader foundation for our conclusions .

