1879 .
] On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
471 into sheet and wire when heated at low temperature .
30 per cent , and 40 per cent , with great difficulty only at a temperature little less than melting point , being brittle when cold , but with a grain of great beauty and fineness .
50 per cent. I have as yet failed to work up into forms other than castings beyond what I can effect by pressure when in a semi-fused condition .
The general results of my work on this alloy would lead me , therefore , to make the following recommendations .
For the manufacture of standard rules to use an alloy of not less than 85 per cent , platinum and 15 per cent , iridium , adopting the tubular form .
For the standard weights to use an alloy of not less than 80 per per cent , platinum and 20 per cent , iridium , adopting the form now generally made .
Finally , following the expression of the great French chemist , M. Dumas , I hope by these labours " d'avoir enrich Poutillage scientifique d'un alliage dove des proprietes preciense .
" III .
" On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
" No. VI .
By G. D. LlVElNG , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received March 27 , 1879 .
The experiments described in the following communication were made with the electric arc , and in lime crucibles , * or in crucibles of a highly calcareous sandstone , kindly supplied to us by Messrs. Johnson , Matthey , and Co. , as described in our fourth communication on this subject ; but for some of them we used , instead of a galvanic battery , a magneto-electric machine producing a much more powerful current and a much longer arc .
The experiments with this machine were made , through the kindness of Dr. Tyndall , at the Royal Institution , and we are indebted to Messrs. Siemens both for the working of the machine and for sparing to us the services of a skilled engineer , in # In our first paper on this subject , communicated in February , 1878 , \#166 ; when referring to the experiments of Lockyer and Roberts ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " xxiii ) , we mentioned that they employed the combined action of a charcoal furnace and an oxyhydrogen blowpipe , but omitted to mention that they used a lime chamber after the model of Stas .
Referring to fig. 1 in our communication of February 12 , 1879 , where the use of an oxyhydrogen blowpipe in a lime block is represented , we disclaim any novelty in the use of lime ; the difference between our experiments and theirs consisting in this , that we use the continuous spectrum from the hot walls of our crucible , instead of an external independent source of light , as a background against which the absorbent action of the vapours is seen , in the same way as we had previously used iron tubes , and now use the electric arc .
Profs .
Living and Dewar [ Apr. 3 , the person of Mr. Oscar Doermer , whose assistance was most valuable ' .
We wish to express our thanks to all these gentlemen for the facilities they so readily granted to us .
The results obtained with the powerful current from the magnetoelectric machine did not differ at all in kind from those obtained with the battery , and much less in degree than we had expected .
We had really hut one day 's work writh this machine , which we can only regard as a preliminary trial of it , and , in the meantime , until we have the opportunity of a longer series of experiments with it , we communicate the results obtained to the Royal Society .
In some cases we have introduced a current of hydrogen , or of coal-gas , into the crucibles by means of a small lateral opening , or by a perforation through one of the carbon electrodes ; sometimes the perforated carbon was placed vertically , and we examined the light through the perforation ( see diagrams ) .
When no such current of gas is introduced , there is frequently a flame of carbonic oxide burning at the mouth of the tube , but the current of hydrogen produces very marked effects .
As a rule , it increases the brilliance of the continuous spectrum , and diminishes relatively the apparent intensity of the bright lines , or makes them altogether disappear with the exception of the carbon lines .
When this last is the case , the reversed lines are seen simply as black lines on a continuous background .
The calcium line with wave-length 4226 is always seen under these circumstances as a more or less broad black band on a continuous background , and when the temperature of the ' crucible has risen sufficiently , the lines with wave-lengths 4434 and 4454 , and next that with wave-length 4425 , appear as simple black lines .
So too do the blue and red lines of lithium , and the barium line of wave-length 5535 , 1879 .
] on the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
473 appear steadily as sharp black lines , when no trace of the other lines of these metals , either dark or bright , can he detected .
Dark hands also frequently appear , with ill-defined edges , in the positions of the well-known bright green and orange hands of lime .
In the case of sodium , using the chloride , we have repeatedly reversed the pair of lines ( 5687 , 5681 ) next more refrangible than the D group .
In every case the less refrangible of the two was the first to be seen reversed , and was the more strongly reversed , as has also been observed by Mr. Lockyer .
But our observations on this pair of lines differ from his in so far as he says that " the double green line of sodium shows scarcely any trace of absorption when the lines are visible , " while we have repeatedly seen the reversal as dark lines appearing on the expanded bright lines ; a second pair of faint bright lines , like ghosts of the first , usually coming out at the same time on the more refrangible side .
Using potassium carbonate , besides the violet and red lines which had been reversed before , we saw the group , wave-lengths 5881 , 5802 , and 5782 , all reversed , the middle line of the three being the first to show reversal .
Also the lines wave-lengths 6913 , 6946 , well reversed , the less refrangible remaining reversed the longer .
Also the group , wave-lengths 5353 , 5338 , 5319 reversed , the most refrangible not being reversed until after the others .
Also the line wave-length 5112 reversed , while two other lines of this group , wavelengths 5095 and 5081 , were not seen reversed .
Using lithium chloride , not only were the red and blue lines , as usual , easily reversed , and the orange line well reversed for a long time , but also the green line was distinctly reversed ; the violet line still unreversed , though broad and expanded .
Had this green line belonged to caesium , the two blue lines of that metal which are so easily reversed could not have failed to appear ; but there was no trace of them .
In the case of rubidium , we havoc , seen the less refrangible of the red lines well reversed as a black line on a continuous background , but it is not easy to get , even from the arc in one of our crucibles , sufficient light in the low red to show the reversal of the extreme ray of this metal .
With charred barium tartrate , and also with baryta and aluminium together , we have obtained the reversal of the line with wave-length 6496 , besides the reversals previously described .
The less refrangible line , wave-length 6677 , was not reversed .
With charred strontium tartrate , the lines with wave-lengths 4812 , 4831 , and 4873 , were reversed , and by the addition of aluminium , the line wave-length 4962 was reversed for a long time , and lines wave-lengths 4895 , 4868 , about , were also reversed .
On putting calcium chloride into the crucible , the line wave-length 474 On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
[ Apr. 3 , 4302 was reversed , this being the only one of the well-marked group to which it belongs which appeared reversed .
On another occasion , when charred strontium tartrate was used , the line wave-length 4877 was seen reversed , as well as the strontium line near it .
Also the lines wave-lengths 6161 , 6121 , have again been seen momentarily reversed .
With magnesium , no new reversals of the lines of the metal have been observed by us ; but when a stream of hydrogen or of coal-gas was led into the crucible , the line wave-length 5210 , previously seen by us in iron tubes , and ascribed by us to a combination of magnesium with hydrogen , was regularly seen , usually as a dark line , sometimes with a tail of fine dark lines on the more refrangible side similar to the tail of bright lines seen in the sparks taken in hydrogen between magnesium points .
Sometimes , however , this line ( 5210 ) was seen bright .
It always disappeared when the gas was discontinued , and appeared again sharply on re-admitting the hydrogen .
These effects were , however , only well-defined in crucibles having a height of at least 3 inches above the arc .
On putting a fragment of metallic gallium into a crucible , the less refrangible line , wave-length 4170 , came out bright , and soon a dark line appeared in the middle of it .
The other line , wave-length 4031 , showed the same effect , but less strongly .
In the cases of cadmium and copper , though we have made no thorough examination of them , we can corroborate the results arrived at by Cornu .
We noticed particularly the disappearance in the arc of the cadmium lines , with wave-lengths 5377 and 5336 .
On the addition of aluminium to either copper or silver in our lime crucibles , we noticed that the copper or silver lines which had been previously predominant , almost faded away , while the calcium lines came out instead with marked brilliancy .
In no case could we detect the red lines of aluminium in the arc .
With a view to re-introduce , into the arc the magnesium line wavelength 4481 , we tried the action of an induction spark in a lime crucible simultaneously with the arc , but without success ; for the conducting power of the hot walls of the crucible , and the highly expanded gases within it , caused the resistance to be so much diminished , that the spark passed as in a highly rarefied medium .
In order to succeed with this experiment , it seems plain that it must be made in an apparatus which will allow of its being performed under a pressure of several atmospheres .
Reviewing the series of reversals which we have observed , we may remark that in many cases the least refrangible of two lines near together is the most easily reversed , as has been previously remarked by Cornu .
Thus , in the case of barium ( though there is no very distinct grouping of the lines of that metal ) taking the rays in order , we have 1879 .
] On the unknown Chromospheric Substance of Young .
475 the line wave-length 5535 readily reversed , while that with wavelength 5518 is less easily reversed ; the line wave-length 4933 is comparatively easily reversed , whereas that with wave-length 4899 has not been reversed by ns .
On the other hand , the line wave-length 4553 has been reversed , but not the line wave-length 4524 .
In the case of strontium , the lines wave-length 4831 and 4812 have been reversed , but not the line wave-length 4784 , and the two lines wavelength 4741 and 4721 remain both unreversed .
In the group of five lines of calcium , wave-length 4318 to 4282 , it is only the middle line wave-length 4302 which has been reversed .
Of the potassium groups of lines wave-length 5831 and 5782 , 5802 , 5782 are reversed , the line wave-length 5811 has not been reversed , and of the others the line wave-length 5802 is the first to appear reversed .
It is worthy of remark that the first of these lines is faint and the last is the brightest of the group .
The group wave-length 5355 , 5336 , 5319 have been all reversed , but the last of the three ( 5319 ) was the most difficult to reverse : it is also the feeblest of the group .
In the more refrangible group , wave-length 5112 , 5095 , 5081 , the least refrangible is the only one reversed .
Making a general summation of our results respecting the alkaline earth metals , potassium , and sodium , and having regard only to the most characteristic rays , which for barium we reckon as 21 , for strontium 34 , for calcium 37 , for potassium 31 , and for sodium 12 , the reversals in our experiments number respectively 6 , 10 , 11 , 13 , and 4 .
That is in the case of the alkaline earth metals about one-third , and these chiefly in the more refrangible third of the visible spectrum , the characteristic rays remaining unreversed in the more refrangible part of the spectrum being respectively 2 , 5 , and 4 .
In the case of potassium we reversed two in the upper third , all the rest in the least refrangible third .
These experiments relate to mixtures of salts of these metals combined with the action of reducing agents .
In a future communication we will contract these results with those of the isolated metals , calcium , strontium , and barium .
IV .
" Note on the unknown Chromospheric Substance of Young .
" By G. D. Liyeing , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received March 27 , 1879 .
In the preliminary catalogue of the bright lines in the spectrum of the chromosphere published by Young in 1861 , he calls special attention to the lines numbered 1 and 82 in the catalogue , remarking that " they are very persistently present , though faint , and can be distinctly seen in the spectroscope to belong to the chromosphere , as supb , not being due , like most of the other lines , to the exceptional elevation

