416 Dr. J. B. Sanderson on the Attributes of [ Nov. 2S November 22 , 1877 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice was given from the Chair of th ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the list of Officers and Council pro posed for election was read as follows:\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker , C.B. , M.D. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; William Spottiswoode , M.A. , LL. D. \lt ; v . .
f Professor George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D 1 Professor Thomas Henry Huxley , LL. D. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Professor Alexander William Williamson , Ph. D. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Frederick A. Abel , C.B. , Y.P.C.S. William Bowman , E.R.C.S. ; Frederick J. Bramwell , M.I.C.E. ; William B. Carpenter , C.B. , M.D. , D.C.L. ; William Carruthers , F.L.S. ; William Crookes , Y.P.C.S. ; Prof. P. Martin Duncan , M.B. , P.G.S. ; William Farr , M.D. , D.C.L. j Prof. William H. Flower , F.R.C.S. Prof. G. Carey Foster , B.A. , F.C.S. ; John Russell Hind , F.R.A.S. ; Lord Rayleigh , M.A. ; Yice-Admiral Sir G. H. Richards , C.B. ; Prof. Henry J. Stephen Smith , M.A. ; Prof. Balfour Stewart , M.A. , LL. D. ; Prof. Allen Thomson , M.D. , F.R.S.E. The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Mr. Brian Haughton Hodgson was admitted into the Society .
The following Paper was read:\#151 ; " Remarks on the Attributes of the Germinal Particles of Bacteria , in Reply to Prof. Tyndall .
" By J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received September 17 , 1877 .
In a short paper communicated to the Royal Society at the close of last Session Prof. Tyndall did me the honour to criticize certain words reported to have been used by me at a meeting of the Association of Medical Officers of Health in January last .
Although I am much indebted to him for the opportunity he has thus afforded me of discussing an important subject before this Society , I cannot refrain from expressing my regret that he should have thought it desirable to quote at length , and thus to place on permanent record in the Society 's Proceedings , the 377 .
] Germinal Particles of Bacteria .
417 cpressions used on the occasion above mentioned .
I regret this because less expressions occur in an abbreviated and incomplete abstract of a astily prepared discourse not intended for publication .
As , however , I am well aware that Prof. Tyndall 's purpose in his Mnmunication was not to criticize the language , but the erroneous views 'hich the language appeared to him to contain , I shall make no further 3ference to the quotation , but shall regard it as the purpose of the preant paper , first , to reply to the reasoning embodied in his last communi-ation , and , secondly , to corroborate certain statements previously made y me , to which he has taken exception in the more extended memoir mblished in the 166th volume of the ' Philosophical Transactions .
' It will be my first object to enable the Fellows of the Royal Society o judge how far the views I entertain differ from those which have been nunciated here and elsewhere by Prof. Tyndall .
Biologists are much ndebted to him for the new and accurately observed facts with which he las enlarged the basis of our knowledge , as well as for the admirable nethods of research with which he has made us acquainted .
As regards he general bearing of these facts on the doctrine of Abiogenesis , I imagine hat we are entirely agreed .
So far as I can make out , the difference )etween us relates chiefly to two subjects , namely , the sense in which I iave employed the words " germ " and " structure , " and the extent of the knowledge at present possessed by physiologists as to the structure and attributes of the germinal particles of Bacteria .
Although Dr. Tyndall , in the title of his paper , refers to my " views of ferment , " yet as he makes no further allusion to them , I will content myself with stating that in the passage quoted the first sentence ( from the words " In defining " to the word " living " ) has nothing to do with the following sentences , having been placed in the position which it occupies in the quotation by the abstractor .
The paragraph ought to begin with the words " Ten years ago .
" Of the meaning which attached itself to the word " germ " in the days of Panspermism a correct idea may be formed from the following passage from M. Pasteur 's well-known memoir " Sir les Corpuscules Organises qui existent dans 1'Atmosphere " :\#151 ; " There exist , " says he , " in the air a variable number of corpuscles , of which the form and structure indicate that they are organized .
Their dimensions increase from extremely small diameters to one hundredth of a millim. , 1*5 hundredth of a millim. , or even more .
Some are spherical , others ovoid .
They have more or less marked contours .
Many are translucent , but others are opaque , with granulations in their interior ... I do not think it possible to affirm of one of these corpuscles that it is a spore , still less that it is the spore of a particular species of microphyte , or of another that it is an egg or the egg of a particular microzoon .
I confine myself to the declaration that the corpuscles are evidently organized j that they resemble in every respect the germs of the lower organisms , and differ from each 418 Dr. J. B. Sanderson on Attributes of [ Nov. 2 ; other so much in volume and structure that they unquestionably belor to very numerous species .
" Such are the " germs " of M. Pasteur , ai such is the conception of a germ which was entertained by informs persons up to 1870 , and is very generally entertained up to the presei moment* .
It is obvious that these " corpuscules organises " were , they had any relation to the Bacteria , not germs in Dr. Tyndall 's sens but " finished organisms ; " and yet it was of these that M. Pastei said that it was " mathematically proved " that they were the originate of the organisms which are developed in albuminous liquids containir sugar when exposed to the atmosphere .
With reference to the word " structure " I would point out that i the passage quoted from my lecture it is distinctly stated that tl bacterial germ is endowed with structure in the molecular sense , but n\lt ; in the anatomical sense .
The meaning of the expression " anatomici structure " was , naturally , not defined , considering that the persoi whom I was addressing might be supposed to be familiar with it .
A however , my failing to do so has apparently led to some uncertainty a to my meaning , I must , to avoid future misunderstandings , define moi completely the difference between the two senses in which the word w\#171 ; used by me .
The anatomical sense of the word structure may be illustrated b referring to its synonyms , to the English words texture and tissue , 1 the Greek word Ionov , and to the German word from which tw last the words in common use to designate the science of structure , vi : histology and Gewebelehre , are made up .
What I have asserted of tb germinal particles of Bacteria is , that no evidence exists of their bein endowed with that particular texture which forms the subject of th science of histology .
In biological language there is a close relatio between the words structure and organization , the one being an am tomical , the other a physiological term ; either of these words signifies the an object to which it is applied consists of parts or structural elements each of which is , or may be , an object of observation .
As the obsei vation is unaided or aided , the structure is said to be macroscopic* or microscopical .
The biologist cannot recognize ultra-microscopics structure or organization except as matter of inference from observe tion , i. e. from observing either that other organisms , which there i reason to regard as similar to the object in respect of which structure i inferred , actually possess visible structure , or that the object can be seei to possess structure at a later period of its existence .
As instances i * Before I became aware that the contaminating particles of water are ultra-micro scopical I myself was engaged earnestly in hunting for germs both in water and aii The search has been continued by others up to a much later period .
Those whf desire information on the organized particles of the atmosphere will find the subjec exhaustively treated by Dr. Douglas Cunningham in a Report entitled " Microscopies Examinations of Air , " lately issued by H.M. Indian Government .
the Germinal Particles of Bacteria .
1877 .
] yhich the existence of structure is inferred the following may be mentioned:\#151 ; The protoplasm of a Bhizopod is admitted to have structure because , although none can be seen in the protoplasm itself , the complicated form of the calcareous shell which the protoplasm makes or models can be seen .
By analogy , therefore , other organisms which are allied to the Bhizopod are inferred to have structure ; and from these , or from similar cases , the inference is extended to all kinds of cells , with respect to which it is taught by physiologists that although , in certain cases , no parts can be distinguished , the living material of which they consist is nevertheless endowed with structure or organization .
Similarly we assume that a Bacterium possesses a more complicated structure than we can actually observe , because in other organisms which are allied to it by form and life history such complications can be seen .
Again , in all embryonal organs we admit the existence of structure before it can be seen , because in the course of development we observe its gradual emergence .
So far inference of the existence of structure from historical evidence is justifiable ; but if we were to carry this inference back to the ovum itself , and say that the characteristic structures of nerve , of muscle , or of gland exist in the ovum at the moment after impregnation , every physiologist would feel the assertion to be absurd .
In the familiar comparison of the origin of the elephant with that of the mouse , in which the perfect anatomical similarity of the ova in the two species is contrasted with the enormous difference of the result , we should he justified in saying that the difference of development is the expression of structural difference between the primordium of the one and the primor-dium of the other ; but inasmuch as it is not possible to indicate any anatomical distinction , it is understood that structural difference of another kind is meant , namely , difference of molecular constitution .
In other words , we assume that the potential difference between the one and the other is dependent on an actual difference of molecular structure .
Whether this is accompanied with an anatomical difference , such as we might expect to be able to see if we had more perfect instruments , we do not know .
H From the moment that it is understood that the word structure means anatomical structure , the argument used by Dr. Tyndall loses its relevance .
After referring to the " germ-limit , " he says , " Some of those particles " ( by which , I presume , is meant atmospheric particles ) " develop into globular Bacteria , some into rod-shaped Bacteria , some into long flexile filaments , some into impetuously moving organisms , and some into organisms without motion .
One particle will emerge as a Bacillus anthracis , which produces deadly splenic fever ; another will develop into a Bacterium the spores of which are not to be microscopically distinguished from those of the former organism ; and yet these undis-tinguishable spores are absolutely powerless to produce the disorder which Bacillus anthracis never fails to produce .
It is not to be imagined 420 Dr. J. B. Sanderson on the Attributes of [ Nov. 22 that particles which , on development , emerge in organisms so differen from each other , possess no structural differences .
But if they possess , structural differences they must possess the thing differentiated , viz structure itself .
" Throughout this passage it is evident that it is not anatomical but molecular structure that is referred to .
In the other passages which relate to the same subject , I venture tc think that Dr. Tyndall has overlooked the distinction made by m* between anatomical organization and molecular structure .
When , foi example , he speaks of " germ structure " in the passage quoted from hit Liverpool Address , he evidently refers to molecular structure exclusively : for he gives ice as his first example , and .
argues that as ice possesses structure so do atmospheric germs\#151 ; a proposition which I should not have thought of questioning .
The experimental evidence which we have before us goes to prove that in all the known cases in which Bacteria appear to originate de ve ( that is to say , in liquids which are at the moment of their origin absolutely free from living Bacterid ) , they really originate from " particles great or small , " which particles are therefore germs in the sense in which that word is used by Prof. Tyndall .
To illustrate the views I myself entertain , and always have entertained , on this question , I need only refer to my paper on the origin of Bacteria , published in 1871 .
The experiments made by me at that time brought to light the then new fact , now become old by familiarity , that all exposed aqueous liquids , even when absolutely free from visible particles , and all moist surfaces , are contaminated and exhibit a power of communicating their contamination to other liquids .
As regards water and aqueous liquids in general , I insisted on the " particulate " nature of the contaminating agent , and coined for the purpose the adjective I have just employed ( which has been since adopted by other writers ) , at the same time pointing out that the particles in question were ultra-microscopical , and consequently that their existence was matter of inference as distinguished from direct observation .
Dr. Tyndall has demonstrated , by the experiments to which I have already alluded , that the ordinary air also contains germinal particles of ultra-microscopical minuteness .
Of the completeness and conclusiveness of those experiments I have only to express the admiration which I , in common with all others whose studies have brought them into relation with the subject , entertain .
That such particles exist there can be no question ; but of their size , structural attributes , or mode of development we know nothing .
Prof. Tyndall , I am sure by inadvertence , has accused me of assuming that there is some relation between the limit of microscopical visibility and what he calls the molecular limit , by which I presume to be meant the size of the largest molecule .
Nothing that I have said or written could justify such a supposition .
My contention is not that the particles in question are of any size which can be specified , but , on the contrary , the Germinal Particles of Bacteria .
877 .
] iat we are not in a position to form any conclusion as to their size , scepting that they are so small as to be beyond the reach of observation .
)r .
Tyndall has taught us , first , that the optical effects observed when a earn of light passes through a particulate atmosphere are such as could my be produced by light-scattering particles of extreme minuteness ; , nd secondly , that by subsidence these particles disappear , and that the ontaminating property of the atmosphere disappears with them .
He as thus approximately determined for us the upper limit of magnitude , mt leaves us uncertain as to the lower ; for we have no evidence that he particles which render the atmosphere opalescent to the beam of the lectric lamp may not be many times larger than those which render it renninative .
Consequently the fact that the air may be rendered sterile jy subsidence , while affording the most conclusive proof that germinal natter is not gaseous , leaves us without information as to the size of the ^articles of which it consists .
Of 4each germinal particle , whether inhabiting an aqueous liquid or mspended in the atmosphere , it can be asserted that under conditions which occur so frequently that they may be spoken of as general ( viz. moisture , a suitable temperature , and the presence of dead proteid matter , otherwise called organic impurity ) it produces an organism .
If , for the sake of clearness , we call the particle a and the organism to which it gives rise A , then " what is known about the matter amounts to no more than this , that the existence of A was preceded by the existence of a. With respect to A , we know , by direct observation , that it is an organic structure ; but inasmuch as we know absolutely nothing as to the size and form of a , we cannot even state that it is transformed into A , much less can we say any thing as to the process of transformation .
M Considering that it is admitted on all hands that there exist in ordinary air particles which are potentially germs , it might at first sight appear needless to inquire whether or not this fact is to be regarded as carrying with it the admission that they must necessarily possess the other attributes of organized structure .
Very little consideration , however , is requisite in order to become convinced that this question stands in relation with another of fundamental importance in biology\#151 ; that , namely , of the molecular structure of living material * .
It is not necessary for my present purpose to do more than to indicate the nature of this relation .
As regards every form of living matter , it may be stated that quite irrespectively of its morphological characteristics , which , as we have seen , must be learnt by the application of the various methods o visual observation at our disposal , it possesses molecular structure peculiar to itself .
We are certain of this because the chemical processes of which life is made up are peculiar , that is , such as occur only in connexion with * The reader who is interested in this subject will find it discussed with great in genuity by Prof. Pfliiger , in his paper " Ueber die physiologische Verbrennung m den lebendigen Organismon , " P Auger 's Archiv , vol. x. p. 300 .
422 Dr. J. B. Sanderson on the Attributes of [ Nov. 2\#163 ; living material .
Even the simplest instance that we can mention , that c the elevation of dead albumen into living ( a process which in the cas now before us must represent the very earliest step in the climax c development ) , is at the present moment beyond the reach of investigation for as yet we are only beginning to know something about the constitu tion of non-living proteids .
But this want of knowledge of the natur of the difference between living and non-living material in no wise im pairs the conviction which exists in our minds that the difference is on of molecular structure .
The sum of the preceding paragraphs may be stated in few words Wherever those chemical processes go on which we collectively designate as life , we are in the habit of assuming the existence of anatomical structure .
The two things , however , although concomitant are not the same ; for while anatomical structure cannot come into existence without the simultaneous or antecedent existence of the kinc of molecular structure which is peculiar to living material , the proof if at present wanting that the vital molecular structure may not precede the anatomical .
At the same time it must be carefully borne in mind that there is no evidence of the contrary .
It is sufficient for my purpose to have shown that the existence of organized particles endowed .v with anatomical structure in the " atmospheric dust " has not been proved .
I do not dispute its probability .
Before leaving this subject I may be permitted to add a word as to the bearing of this discussion on a question which , to myself , is of special interest\#151 ; that of contagium vivum .
According to the view which these words are understood to express , the morbific material by which a contagious disease is communicated from a diseased to a healthy person consists of minute organisms called " Disease-Germs .
" In order that any particle may be rightly termed a Disease-Germ two things must be proved concerning it , viz.:\#151 ; first , that it is a living organism ; secondly , that if it finds its way into the body of a healthy human being , or of an animal , it will produce the disease of which it is the germ .
Now there is only one disease affecting the higher animals in respect of which any thing of this kind has been proved , and that is splenic fever of cattle .
In other words , there is but one case in which the existence of a disease-germ has been established .
Comparing such a germ with the germinal particles we have been discussing , we see that there is but little analogy between them : for , first , the latter are not known to be organized ; secondly , they have no power of producing disease ; for it has been found by experiment that ordinary Bacteria may be introduced into the circulating blood of healthy animals in considerable quantities without producing any disturbance of health .
So long as we ourselves are healthy , we have no reason to apprehend any danger from the morbific action of atmospheric dust , except in so far as 577 .
] the Germinal Particles of Bacteria .
can be shown to have derived infectiveness from some particular source miasma or contagium .
I now proceed to the second part of my communication , which relates , prof .
Tyndall 's serious , but most courteously expressed , criticisms of y experiments on spontaneous generation* .
The fact that Dr. Tyndall blames me for incautiously vouching for is , that in boiled and hermetically sealed flasks Bacteria sometimes appear l swarms .
" From multiplied experiments he concludes that this not true , and infers that I who vouched for it was incautious , he paper referred to was one in which I , as a bystander , gave an ac-mnt of certain experiments which Dr. Bastian performed in my pre-mce .
So far as relates to the fact above quoted , these experiments ere , to my mind , absolutely conclusive ; but inasmuch as I was unable ) admit with Dr. Bastian that they afforded any proof of spontaneous eneration , I followed them as soon as practicable by a series of experi-lentsf ( the only ones which I myself ever made on this subject ) , in diich I tested the influence of two new conditions , viz. of prolonged ex-osure to the temperature of ebullition , and of exposure for short periods 0 temperatures above that of ebullition at ordinary pressure .
The xperiments accordingly consisted of two series , in the first of which a lumber of retorts or flasks charged with the turnip-cheese liquid ( i. e. nth neutralized infusion of turnip of the specific gravity 1017 , to which \lt ; pinch of pounded cheese had been added ) , and sealed hermetically while .oiling , were , after they had been so prepared , subjected to the tempe-ature of ebullition for longer or shorter periods .
In the second series he period of ebullition was the same in all cases , but the temperature vas varied by varying the pressure at which ebullition took place .
The conclusion arrived at , as expressed in the final paragraph of the taper , was , that in the case of the turnip-cheese liquid the prone* The expressions referred to are the following:\#151 ; " I have worked with infusions of Drecisely the same specific gravity as those employed by Dr. Bastian .
This I was specially careful to do in relation to the experiments described and vouched for , I sear incautiously , by Dr. Burdon Sanderson in vol. vii .
p. 180 of ' Nature .
It will here be seen that though failure attended some of his efforts , Dr. Bastian did satisfy Or .
Sanderson that in boiled and hermetically sealed flasks Bacteria sometimes appear \#174 ; swarms .
With purely liquid infusions I have vainly sought to reproduce the evidence which convinced Dr. Sanderson ... I am therefore compelled to conclude that Dr. Sanderson has lent the authority of his name to results whose antecedents he had not sufficiently examined " ( Phil. Trans , vol. clxvi .
p. 57 ) .
In the abstract of a lecture delivered at the Royal Institution , January 21st , 1876 , similar words occur , as also in a letter to * Nature ' dated February 27th , 1876 , in which .
Dr. Tyndall , after remarking that the experiments of Dr. Bastian , witnessed by me , were too scanty and hx\gt ; little in harmony with each other to bear an inference , suggests that I should repeat them .
1 ' Nature , ' vol. viii .
p. 141 .
424 Dr. J. B. Sanderson on the Attributes of [ Nov. 25 ness of the liquid to produce Bacteria can be diminished either by creasing the temperature employed to sterilize it , or , if the ordinal temperature of ebullition be used , by prolonging its duration .
I did not think it necessary since 1873 to occupy myself further wit the subject for two reasons :\#151 ; first , that I had accomplished my objec which was to show that , as a ground for believing in spontaneous genera tion , the turnip-cheese experiment was a failure ; but secondly , an principally , because in the mean time the subject had been taken up b the most competent living observers , who had in every particular cor firmed the accuracy of my results .
I conclude this paper by referrin shortly to some of these researches .
The first was made by P. Samuelson under the direction of Prol Pfliiger* in 1873 .
Its purpose was to ascertain whether it is true tha certain liquids can be boiled for ten minutes without being sterilizer and , secondly , to determine the influence of prolonged periods of ex posure .
The flasks employed were charged with the neutral turnip cheese liquid , and sealed while boiling in the way already describee Some were subjected to the temperature of ebullition for ten minutes the rest for an hour , the result being that whereas those heated for th longer periods remained without exception barren , an exposure of on ten minutes was followed , in the majority of cases , by an abundant de velopment of Bacteria+ .
At about the same period a similar series o experiments was made under the direction of Prof. Hoppe-Seyler a Strasburg .
The results were essentially the same+ .
During the next year the second question which I had attempted t solve , viz. the influence of temperatures above 100 ' 0 .
, was taken up wit ] much greater completeness by Prof. Gscheidlen , of Breslau S. After i resume of the proofs already given by his predecessors , that certain fluid are not sterilized by boiling , and , secondly , that as means of sterilizing * * * S * " TJeber Abiogenesis , von Paul Samuelson aus Konigsberg , " Pfliiger 's Archiv , vol viii .
p. 277 .
The paper is designated as a report of experiments made " im Auftraj und unter der Leitung des Geh.-Rath Professor Pfliiger .
" I refer in the text only to those experiments which were virtually repetitions of my own .
The research actuall1 extended over a wider field .
t " Als Resultat dieser Yersuchsreihe , ergab sich eine massenhafte Entwickelung voi Bacterien in den meisten nur 10 Minuten lang gekoohten Fliissigkeitsmengen nacl 3-4 Tagen " ( lo .
cit.p .
283 ) .
| " Ueber die Abiogenesis Huizinga 's , von Felix Putzeys , aus Liittich ( aus den chemisch-physiologischen Laboratorium des Herm Prof. Hoppe-Seyler ) , " Pfluger 's Archiv , vol. ix .
p. 391 .
In a note appended by Prof. Hoppe-Seyler to this paper h\lt ; states that he has recommended its publication notwithstanding that the results ob tained were mere confirmations of those of former observers , adding " fur den wissen schaftlichen Fortschritt hat nicht die Prioritat des einen oder des anderen BeO ' bachters , wohl aber die Zahl , Mannigfaltigkeit , und Zuverlassigkeit der Beobachtungei eine hohe Wichtigkeit .
" S " Ueber die Abiogenesis Huizinga 's , von Richard Gscheidlen , " Pfliiger 's Archiv , vol ix .
p. 163 .
877 .
] tfAe Germinal Particles of Bacteria .
425 icb liquids the action of prolonged exposure and that of increased 3mperature may be regarded as complementary to each other , he proceeds o relate his own researches , the purpose of which was rather to fill up lefects in the evidence than to establish new conclusions .
The flasks employed were capable of containing 100 cub. centims. 31 oz. ) ; they were charged in the usual way with the turnip-cheese iquid , and exposed for short periods in chloride of calcium baths , | which the temperatures were carefully adjusted so as to obtain the equisite temperatures .
It was thereby definitely proved that whereas he germinal matter of Bacteria can stand a temperature of 100 ' for five , r ten minutes it is destroyed by temperatures varying from 105 ' to 110'* In an appendix to my first paper , published in ' Nature ' in the autumn , f 1873,1 showed that the solutions of diffusible proteids and carbo-ydrates employed by Prof. Huizinga , of Groningen , in the first of he valuable series of experiments t published by him , relating to the ubject of spontaneous generation , require a temperature above that of sbullition under ordinary pressure to sterilize them .
This observation ias since been established by Prof. Huizinga himself on the basis of very .arefully made experiments+ , by which he has proved at the same time * " Es folgt aus den eben angegebenen Yersuehen , bach meiner Meinung , dass in Huizinga 's Geniengen die Bacterien einer Temperatur von 100 ' 5\#151 ; 10 Minuten lang zu viderstehen vermogen , nicht aber einer von 105'-110 ' in eingeschmolzenem Glas-\#166 ; ohre wahrendder namlichen Zeit " ( loc. cit. p. 167 ) .
Here the author clearly fails to nake the necessary distinction between Bacteria ( which , as is well known , lose their dtality at a much lower temperature ) and the material out of which they spring .
Che mixtures referred to were either the cheese and turnip liquid or solutions containing peptones and grape-sugar , to be immediately referred to .
As affording an elegant lemonstration that in the turnip-cheese liquid it is the cheese and not any other con-itituent which contains the resistant element , the following form of experiment is vorthy of notice:\#151 ; A tube , A , drawn out and closed at both ends , is fused into the open mouth of a second tube , B , of which the opposite end is drawn out and closed in a similar manner .
In this way a compound tube is formed which is divided by a^ conical septum into two chambers , A and B. A small knob of glass having been previously introduced into the chamber B , the septum oan be easily broken by shaking the tube .
With tubes so prepared two experiments are made .
In Experiment 1 , compartment A. is charged with infusion of cheese , sealed , and then exposed to a temperature of 110 ' before it is united to the compartment B. In like manner B is charged with neutral decoction of turnip , so that when the compound tube is complete it contains cheese in one compartment , turnip in the other .
If , after boiling for ten minutes , it is placed in the warm chamber its contents remain barren .
In Experiment t e experiment is varied by simply omitting the preliminary heating of A. The compoun tube is boiled as before , but now its contents promptly give evidence that t e con tions are present for an abundant development of Bacteria* .
t Prof. Huizinga 's papers on the question of Abiogenesis are four in num er .
e references are as followsPfliiger 's Archiv , vol. vii .
p. 225 ; vol. vin .
pp. 1\#187 ; U , ool ; t The solution employed in these experiments was neutral and contained , in \amp ; ddi tion to the requisite inorganic salts , 2 per cent , of grape-sugar , 0 3 per cen *0 so u e VOL. XXVI .
426 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 3( that the liquids in question are rendered completely incapable of prt ducing Bacteria , without extrinsic contamination , by exposing them 1 higher temperature .
The only points of difference between us , either t regards method or result , are , first , that the sterilization limit ( " Grren : sir Bacterienerzeugung " ) fixed by me was too low , the true limit beir 110 ' C. ; and , secondly , that the experiments from which I had inferrt that the liquids in question had been sterilized at lower temperature than this were , in Prof. Huizinga 's opinion , rendered inconclusive by tl fact that my flasks were sealed hermetically , whereas in his exchange \lt ; air was allowed to take place , during the period of incubation , through septum of porous porcelain .
To this last objection I might perhaj have thought it my duty to answer , had it not been shown by the sul sequent researches of G-scheidlen to have no bearing on the question : issue .
As regards the limit of sterilization , I can entertain no doubt t to the accuracy of Huizinga 's measurements , and am quite willing 1 accept 108 ' C. as the lowest temperature which could be safely employ under the conditions laid down by him .
It will be understood that in bringing these facts before the Societ my only purpose is to show , as I trust I have done conclusively , that tb statements which Dr. Tyndall in 1876 characterized as incautious , an which he virtually invited me to retract , had been two years before confirmed in every particular by experimenters of acknowledged com petence .
November 30 , 1877 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , C.B. , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chaii Mr. Abel , for the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part o the Society , reported that the total receipts during the past year , includ ing a balance of \#163 ; 150 18s .
11 d.carried from the preceding year , amoun to \lt ; \#163 ; 7056 14s .
4:d .
; and that the total expenditure in the same perioc amounts to \lt ; \#163 ; 6123 3s .
3d ! .
, leaving a balance at the Bankers ' of \#163 ; 923 4s .
and \#163 ; 10 7s .
Id. in the hands of the Treasurer .
The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Au ditors .
starch , 03 per cent , of peptones , and 1 per cent , of amnionic tartrate .
As in my ex periments , the flasks were heated in a Papin 's pot , of which the temperature was 102 ' C Even after half an hour 's exposure to this temperature all the flasks became in two o : three days " stark trube und volume Baoterien " ( third paper , p. 555 , January , 1374 ) .

