there are enlargements resembling ganglia , and that the hepatic ducts and gall-bladder are largely supplied with these gangliform plexuses of nerves , which all arise from the semilunar ganglion and solar plexus .
" In a Postscript , received October 4 , 1862 , the author adds , that from an elaborate dissection which he has made since the date of the paper , " it is demonstrated " 1 .
That the nerves of the liver take their origin from ganglia situated around the root of the hepatic artery , which are intimately connected with , or actually form a part of , the semilunar ganglion of the great sympathetic .
" 2 .
That the hepatic nerves , thus originating , proceed to the liver along with the hepatic artery , hepatic veins , the vena portee , and the hepatic ducts .
" 3 .
That the hepatic nerves , on reaching the liver , send numerous branches to the different lobes , along with the ramifications of the hepatic artery to every part of the organ , and that plexuses of nerves accompany the most minute branches of the arteries .
" 4 .
That the hepatic and cystic ducts are surrounded with plexuses of ganglia and nerves , and that nerves accompany the arteries of the gall-bladder throughout their distribution .
" 5I .
That besides these nerves , accompanying the trunk and branches of the hepatic artery and surrounding the cystic and hepatic ducts , there is a great system of ganglionic nerves distributed to the walls of the vena portee .
" V. " On the Volumes of Pedal Surfaces .
" By T. A. HIRST , F.R.S. Received 28th August , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) Since the term " pedal surface " has but recently been definitively adopted* , it may be well to state that it indicates , simply , the locus of the feet of perpendiculars let fall from a fixed point , the pedal origin , upon all the tangent planes of a given surface .
It is sometimes convenient , too , to regard the pedal surface as the envelope of a sphere , whose diameter is the radius vector from the pedal origin R[ecess , to any point on the primitive surface .
The primitive surface remaining unaltered , the form and magnitude of its pedal vary , of course , with the position of the pedal origin .
In the first part of the memoir , of which the present note is an abstract , the volumes of pedals derived from the same primitive surface , but corresponding to different origins , are investigated , and the general formula found by means of which the volume of any pedal whatever may be calculated when that of any other is known .
From this formula are deduced the following new and very general properties of pedal surfaces : Whatever may be the nature of the primitive surface , the origins of pedals of the same volume lie on a surface of the third order .
It should be observed that the volume of the pedal is here understood to be that of the conical space swept by the perpendicular , as the tangent plane of the primitive takes all possible positions .
In this sense the term volume may clearly be applied to the pedals of unclosed surfaces .
It is in fact to such surfaces that the above theorem applies ; for when the primitive is a closed surface , but in other respects perfectly arbitrary , the locus of the origins of pedals of constant volume is a quadric , or surface of the second order .
The whole series of quadric loci , corresponding to all possible volumes , constitutes a system of similar , similarly placed , and concentric quadrics , the common centre of all being the origin of the pedal of least volume .
From the three equations which determine the position of the origin of the pedal of least volume , it follows that this origin always coincides with the centre of the primitive , whenever the latter possesses such a point ; when , moreover , the primitive , besides being closed , is everywhere convex in curvature , and symmetrical with respect to three rectangular planes , each origin-locus is an ellipsoid whose principal diametral planes coincide with the planes of symmetry .
This is the case with the pedals of the ellipsoid , which , ever since the researches of Fresnel on light , have been regarded with especial interest .
Their properties form the subject of the second part of the memoir .
It is shown that the volume of any ellipsoid-pedal , the coordinates of whose origin are given , may be found by simple differentiation of the expression for the volume of the least or central pedal .
~ Amongst the new properties of such pedals the following may be here cited : The volume of the pedal whose origin is at a corner of the rectangular parallelopiped described about the primitive ellipsoid is equal tofour times the volume of the central pedal , and to twice the volume of the pedal at any one of the eight points where the ellipsoid is pierced by the diagonals of the parallelopiped .
Again , the algebraical sum of the volumes of the three ellipsoidpedals whose origins are at the extremities of any three conjugate diameters of a concentric and co-axal quadric is constant , and equal to three times the volume of the pedal at any one of the eight points where this quadric is pierced by the diagonals of its circumscribed rectangular parallelopiped .
From this theorem several others are deduced by assuming , for the quadric in question , particular forms .
For instance , when it coincides with the primitive surface itself , we learn that the sum of the volumes of the three ellipsoid-pedals whose origins are at the extremities of any three conjugate diameters of the primitive surface is constant , and equal to six times the volume of the central or least pedal .
In this theorem is included , of course , the special case where the origins of the three pedals coincide with the vertices of the primitive ellipsoid .
If , for convenience of enunciation , we define the pedal-altitude at any point to be the altitude of a parallelopiped whose base is the square on the line joining that point to the centre of the ellipsoid , and whose volume is equal to that of the pedal having the point in question for origin , it is found that the algebraical sum of the three pedal-altitudes at the extremities of any three orthogonal diameters of a quadric , concentric and co-axal with the primitive ellipsoid , is constant , and equal to three times the pedal-altitude at any one of the eight points on this quadric which are equidistant from its axes .
It follows , consequently , that this sum is not only invariable for one and the same quadric , but for all concentric and co-axal quadrics which pass through one and the same point equidistant from the principal diametral planes of the primitive ellipsoid .
In the third part of the memoir , the volume of any pedal of the ellipsoid -1 a2 a3 is expressed by means of the three first partial differential coefficients of the symmetrical integral Y==f^-__ dv dv Vo ( v+a r)(v+a2)(v+a3 ) If P denote the volume of the pedal whose origin has the coordinates x , y , z , the expression in question is P-_ F , M{+ d V ?
M dl ] P-= [ a imi -+ aM da2 + a3m 3 , 2 dc1 dad +,2 where 3M , = ( 2 + a3 ) ( 3r2+ )+3 ( a2y + a , z2 ) + a22 + a32 3M2= ( a3 + a , ) ( 37.2 + a ) + 3(a , z2 + a2 , x ) + a3 + a12 , 3M3= ( at + a ) ( 3r2 + a)+ 3 ( a.x2 a+ y2 ) + a2 + a22 ; r2 and a being abbreviations for X2 y2+ z2 and a1 + a+ a3 , respectively .
The memoir concludes with the expression of the volume P by means of ordinary elliptic functions , and the consideration of the special cases when the primitive is an ellipsoid of rotation .
The expression in question may be readily obtained on observing that the integral V is reducible to the form V=2 F(0 , lc ) a , a ' 1---a3 where the amplitude 0 and modulus kc of the elliptic function F of the first kind are determined by the relations cos20 3 , 22 =a a2 a1 a1a3 By the introduction of elliptic functions , however , the great advantages of symmetry are necessarily lost ; and in investigating the properties of pedal-volumes , the above symmetrical expressions will in general be preferred .
An opportunity thus presents itself , however , of verifying an expression for the volume of the central pedal , the only one hitherto calculated , which was first given in 1844 by Prof. Tortolini in vol. xxxi .
of Crelle 's Journal .

