On the Effects of Castration and Ovariotomy upon Sheep .
27 .(28 ) Mauersberg , * Ophthalmoscope , ' 1910 , vol. 8 .
.(29)5Maddox , 'Tests and Studies of the Ocular Muscles , ' 1907 , 2nd edition .
( 30 ) 'Reports of His Majesty 's Inspectors of Mines , ' 1910 , Cd .
5794 , Cd .
5676 , Cd .
5676 , 1 to 7 .
.(31 ) Debate on Coal Mines Bill , reported in The Times , ' November 24,1911 , and in the 'Colliery Guardian , ' December 1 , 1911 , p. 1075 .
On the Effects o f Castration and Ovariotomy upon .
By F. H. A. Marshall , Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge , and University Lecturer in Agricultural Physiology .
.(Communicated by Prof. J. N. Langley , F.R.S. Received December 20 , 1911 , Read February 22 , 1912 .
) It is well known that castration , when performed in early life and before sexual maturity has been reached , has a marked effect not only in inhibiting the development of the accessory male organs , but in changing the general \#166 ; conformation of the body .
Thus in castrated guinea-pigs , oxen , and capons , as well as in eunuchs , the bones of the limbs tend to be abnormally long , this result depending upon an arrest in the ossification of epiphyses .
The secondary male characters are also in many cases suppressed , so that there is an apparent approximation to the female type .
Thus in red deer if the ; testes are removed in quite immature animals the antlers fail to make their appearance , and in fallow deer castration at birth limits the horn formation to the development of single dugs .
Secondary sexual characters , however , .are not always correlated with the presence of the essential reproductive \#166 ; organs , even in mammals .
Thus the withers in the gelding resemble those \#166 ; of the horse rather than those of the mare , in which the withers are lower .
Moreover , in certain varieties of cattle in Italy , the horns in the ox , if \#166 ; castration has been carried out young , are far longer than those of either the bull or the cow .
Ovariotomy in the female is often said to lead to the assumption of male -characters , but there is little experimental evidence that this is actually the case .
In the human female complete removal of the ovaries , if carried out in early life , besides preventing the onset of puberty and the occurrence *of menstruation , produces effects on the general form and appearance , individuals so operated upon being said , in some cases , to show resemblances Mr. F. H. A. Marshall .
On Effects of [ Dec. 20 , .
to men .
Abnormalities in the ovaries have been described as producing- , similar results .
Thus , Eorig* records three cases in which female deer possessed horns , and were shown on dissection to have had abnormal ovaries .
Darwin* states that female deer in old age have been known to acquire , horns .
E. Wallace* says that in old mares the neck tends to acquire an arch as in the stallion .
The occasional growth of hair on the face in old women is a phenomenon of the same kind .
Similar observations have been made upon birds , especially ducks , poultry , and game birds .
Darwin mentions the case of a duck which , when 10 years old , acquired the plumage of the drake .
Other cases are those of hens which in old age assumed secondary male characters and started to crow .
Hunter* mentions a hen pheasant which had male plumage associated with an abnormal ovary. .
Numerous other instances have been described , but it is not apparent that such an acquirement of male characters by female individuals is always correlated with an abnormality in the reproductive organs .
According to Gurneyf the assumption of male plumage is generally associated with sterility in female gallinaceous birds , but not , as a rule , in female passerine birds .
Thus Gurney describes a hen chaffinch with male plumage and an unlaid egg , and a hen redstart with male plumage and a number of developing eggs .
Guthrie } has described an experiment in which the ovary was removed from a fowl .
After the removal an ovary from another fowl was engrafted* , but the transplanted ovary underwent degeneration .
" The pullet acquired not only the outward anatomical features of a cock\#151 ; cock 's comb , wattle- , long hackle and tail feathers , rapidly developing spurs , carriage , etc. , but the behaviour as well was that of a male ; it exhibited the pugnacious attitude towards other cocks , was attracted by hens , and even went so far as to tread-hens as a cock .
" GoodaleS records two experiments in which the ovaries were removed from ducks .
One was operated upon in the early spring of 1909 and the other in August , and both were still alive at the time of writing ( November , 1910 ) .
The first bird had only undergone a slight change in plumage , but the second made a definite though gradual advance towards the male type .
This bird is described as having come closely to resemble the drake in summer plumage , possessing brilliant green feathers on the head , a white * * * S * For references see Marshall , ' The Physiology of Reproduction , ' London , 1910 .
t Gurney , " On the Occasional Assumption of Male Plumage by Female Birds , " 'Ibis , ' 1888 , vol. 6 ( 5 th series ) .
} Guthrie , " Survival of Engrafted Tissues , " ' Journ. Exper .
Med. , ' 1910 , vol. 12 .
' S Goodale , " Some Results of Castration in Ducks , " * Biol. Bull .
, ' 1910 , voL 20* 1911 .
] Castration and Ovariotomy upon Sheep .
29 neck ring , much claret colour on the breast , and other characters which are typically male .
The voice , however , still remained that of the female , and the colour of the bill and some of the feathers also continued unchanged .
Goodale suggests that the bird in question in course of time may assume the .complete secondary sexual characters of the drake .
Apart from these cases there appears to be no definite experimental evidence , at least from among vertebrates , of the assumption of male .characters as a result of ovariotomy .
Observations and Experiments upon Sheep .
The various breeds of sheep differ considerably in regard to horn growth .
Some are horned in both sexes , though the degree of development of the horns varies according to sex ( whether ram , wether , or ewe ) ; some are hornless in both sexes , while others , again , are horned in the male , but hornless in the female .
At the Eoyal Agricultural Society 's Show , at Norwich , last summer , I made some observations upon representatives .of most of the British breeds .
Among those breeds which are ordinarily described as hornless , the males of the following in many cases had rudimentary horns or " scurs " :\#151 ; Hampshire Down , Suffolk , Lincoln , Leicester , Derbyshire Gritstone , Cotswold , Devon Longwool , Dartmoor , and Cheviot .
.(The rams of the last-mentioned breed had particularly large scurs , which almost amounted to horns in some individuals .
) On the other hand , the ewes of these breeds in no case had any scurs .
Wethers were not represented at the Norwich Show , but it would seem from other observations and enquiries relating to some of the above-mentioned breeds that the scurs do not generally appear in the rams until they are more than a year old , and that the wethers do not grow them at all .
In those breeds which are horned in both sexes the horns of the ewes are less perfectly developed than those of the rams .
Thus , in Dorset Horns , the ewes ' horns are finer and lighter than the tups ' , and , as a rule , do not curl so much .
The wethers ' horns are either more or less intermediate , or resemble those of the ewes .
Dorset ewes are born without horns , but the ram Iambs generally have incipient horns which are visible at birth .
It is noteworthy that the horns of the wethers are most like those of the ewes when they are castrated early , and that postponement in castration diminishes the resemblance.* In the Lonk sheep the ewe and wether are not unlike in their horns , but those of the wether are rather more contracted and grow closer to * These statements are based on personal observation or on information obtained from ^breeders in the Isle of Wight .
Mr. F. H. A. Marshall .
On Effects of [ Dec. 20 the head .
The rams ' horns are much better developed.* The Scotch Blackfaced sheep are similar.j* With Herdwicks , which are the breed used in the investigation described below , the rams have large coiled horns and the ewes are hornless .
It must-be mentioned , however , that at the Felldale Association Show last year , at Eskdale , a very small proportion of the Herdwick rams present were without horns , but this condition is very unusual .
Moreover , according to information given by Mr. John Bothery , of Wastdale Head , Westmorland , the ewes may very occasionally have scurs , though their occurrence is far less frequent than formerly .
The ewes at the Norwich Show were without any sort of scurs , but the rams were typically horned .
Mr. Rothery informs me further that Herdwick ram lambs are , as a rule , castrated when six weeks old , and do not then grow horns , but if the testes are removed at a later age , horns with some degree of development are present .
The skull of the Herdwick wether has been described by Shattock and .
Seligmann , J who say that it resembles the skull of the ewe in general configuration , being less rugged than the skull of the ram , while the bones are thinner and the cranial cavity does not extend so far forward as in the ram .
Two Herdwick ram lambs , born in the late spring , were sent to Cambridge from Westmorland in August , 1910 .
Each of these had horns between 2 and 3 inches in length .
One of these was kept as a control , and now possesses large coiled well-developed horns .
The other was castrated when about three months old .
In the case of the latter the horns ceased to grow* and in the following spring became loose ( apparently as a consequence of being butted by the ram ) , and eventually came off , leaving low rounded knobs , representing the horn cores .
The wether is still alive , but no new horns have developed .
Two more Herdwick ram lambs , born in May , 1911 , were castrated in the following autumn , one when about four months , the other when about five months old .
In the former case the horns were about 4\#163 ; inches long , and have since remained stationary .
In the latter case the horns were 6 inches long , and likewise have since ceased to grow .
In another lamb , which has not ( as yet at any rate ) been castrated , the horns are now ( December , 1911 ) 11 inches long .
It would appear , therefore , that not only does the development of horns in * I am indebted to Mr. W. Ralph Peel for a series of photographs illustrating horn-growth in Lonk rams , wethers , and ewes of various ages .
+ It has been thought worth while to relate the facts mentioned above since they do not appear to be recorded in any of the literature on sheep .
X Shattock and Seligmann , " Observations upon the Acquirement of Secondary Sexual Characters , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1904 , vol. 73 .
Castration and Ovariotomy upon Sheep .
1911 .
] Herdwiok rams depend for its initiation upon a stimulus set up by the testes , but that this stimulus is necessary for the continuance of horn growth , , which stops as soon as the testes are lemoved .
Six Herd wick ewe lambs were also obtained in August , 1910 , and three of these were operated upon when about three months old , the remainder being kept as controls* At that time none of these six ewes had any perceptible trace of horns or scurs .
The operations and subsequent history of the ewe\amp ; were as follows :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The ovaries , Fallopian tubes , and uterus were completely removed .
About seven months after the operation , when the ewe was 10 months old , it was noticed that small scurs were beginning to grow from the frontal bones .
These continued to enlarge , but only very slightly .
When the ewe was about 17 months old it died from hoven .
The skull and skeleton were kept and preparations made .
The scurs may now be seen on the skull as small projections about \#163 ; inch long .
The epiphyses of some of the bones ( particularly those of the metacarpal and metatarsal bones ) appear to be slightly longer than those from the skeleton of a normal Herdwick ewe bf the same age , and this result may possibly have been due to the extirpation of the ovaries .
( 2 ) The ovaries and Fallopian tubes ( but not the uterus ) were removed .
The ewe is still alive .
There are at present only doubtful traces of scurs , and these , such as they are , have made no progress in development in the last seven months , but seem rather to have become reduced so as now to be scarcely perceptible .
( 3 ) The ovaries , Fallopian tubes , and upper parts of the uterine cornua were removed .
The ewe is still alive , but , as in the preceding experiment , there are now only doubtful indications of scur growth , the skull being merely somewhat bumpy in the position where the horns or scurs should grow .
In each of the three animals the removed generative organs were quite infantile .
They have been preserved .
It is clear , therefore , that the removal of the ovaries in young Herdwick lambs before puberty does not lead to an acquirement of horns , which in this breed are male characters .
It must be mentioned , however , that in neither of the three normal ewes could any trace of scurs be detected .
One of these was killed at about the same time as the death of the spayed ewe ( No. 1 ) and the skeleton of this animal was preserved .
The skull is quite smooth in the position corresponding to that of the scurs in the spayed ewe.* * The other two normal ewes unfortunately died earlier , and their skulls were not kept , but no scurs had been detected in these shortly before their death .
32 On the Effects of Castration and Ovariotomy upon Sheep .
It is just possible , therefore , that the development of scurs in the first ewe and their doubtful development* in the two ewes that are still alive , may have been due to the removal of the ovaries , which on this view may be regarded as organs exercising an inhibitory influence on horn growth .
In other breeds { e.g. Suffolks ) , where scurs frequently grow in the ram , these do not generally ( if ever ) make their appearance until the second year , and it is conceivable that in the two spayed ewes which are still being kept , definite scurs may manifest themselves at a later age , though this seems unlikely , since the animals are now 19 months old .
( Compare , however , Goodale 's duck , referred to above .
) It has already been mentioned that , according to information supplied me , scurs occasionally grow in Herdwick ewes .
In view of this fact it would appear that the only conclusive way of determining definitely whether scurs can be induced to grow in Herdwick ewes as a result of ovariotomy would be to spay a considerable number of individuals and compare these with an equal number of unspayed sheep .
Lastly , it is always possible that the presence of the ovaries in early life , ' or even before birth , may exercise a permanently inhibitory influence which can last after the operation of removal .
Conditions .
( 1 ) The development of horns in the males of a breed of sheep in which well marked secondary sexual differentiation occurs ( as manifested especially by presence or absence of horns ) depends upon a stimulus arising in the testes , and this stimulus is essential not merely for the initiation of the horn growth but for its continuance , the horns ceasing to grow whenever the testes are removed .
( 2 ) The removal of the ovaries from young ewes belonging to such a breed does not lead to the development of definitely male characters , except possibly in an extremely minor degree .
The work was carried out at the Field Laboratories , Milton Eoad , Cambridge .
The expenses were partly defrayed by a grant from the Government Grant Committee of the Eoyal Society , to whom I am under obligations .
I wish also to express my indebtedness to Mr. G. A. Banham and Mr. J. G. Eunciman for their kind assistance in carrying out the experiments .

