On the Production of a Specific Serum .
135 " On the Production of a Specific Gastrotoxic Serum.\#151 ; Preliminary Communication .
" By Charles B olton , M.D. , B.Sc. , M.R.C.P. , Research Scholar of the Grocers ' Company .
Communicated by Professor S idney Martin , F.R.S. Received July 26 , 1904 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory , University College .
) [ Plates 8 and 9 .
] Within the last four or five years the study of cytotoxins has advanced rapidly , but .
this difficult subject is still involved in a vast amount of obscurity .
Very few of the cytotoxins have been at all fully worked out , and , since it is becoming recognised that specificity is a term which should be applied to receptors and not to cells , the existence of many specific cytotoxins is doubted .
The present research was , therefore , undertaken from two points of view : ( 1 ) To add , if possible , any facts to our knowledge of cytotoxic action , ( 2 ) To throw some light upon the pathology of human gastric ulcer .
My first endeavour was to produce a hetero-gastrolytic serum by the injection of the mucous membrane of the stomach of the guineapig into the rabbit .
Having succeeded in this direction , I then attempted to produce an iso-gastrolytic serum by the injection of the stomach cells of the rabbit into the rabbit and also of the stomach cells of the guinea-pig into the guinea-pig .
In commencing the work fully realised the difficulty of excluding bacterial infection and therefore have adopted strictly aseptic measures in the preparation of the mucous membrane for injection , making in addition bacteriological examinations of the injected animals .
\#166 ; Intraperitoneal injections are given , and in spite of the strictest precautions death occasionally results from bacterial infection ; I have , however , succeeded in immunising 14 animals , and by injection of the serum obtained from them have produced lesions in the stomachs of over 50 animals , and have been able to show that the peritoneal cavity of immunised animals was sterile on bacteriological examination , whilst their blood serum was highly toxic for other animals .
The subject will be discussed under the following headings :\#151 ; ' ( 1 .
) Methods .
:\#166 ; '(\amp ; .
) Effects of Injection of the Stomach Cells of the Guinea-pig into the Rabbit .
( a ) Symptoms following injection .
( b ) Changes in the rabbit 's blood .
Action of the serum on guinea-pig 's cells in vitro .
136 Dr. C. Bolton .
On [ July 26 , Action when injected into the guinea-pig .
Symptoms following injection .
Post-mortem lesions in guinea-pig .
Nature of the gastrolytic serum .
Effects of heat .
Specificity of the serum .
Relation to haemolysin .
( c ) Changes in the rabbit 's peritoneum .
( 3 .
) Effects of Injection of the .
Stomach Cells of the Rabbit into the Rabbit .
I Changes in the rabbit 's blood .
Action on injection into the rabbit .
Action on injection into the guinea-pig .
Effects of heat .
Effects of previous treatment with guihea-pig 's stomach cells .
Effects of previous treatment with rabbit 's stomach cells .
( 4 .
) Effects of Injection of the Stomach Cells of the Guinea-pig into the Guinea-pig .
Action on injection of the serum into the rabbit .
( 5 .
) Action of Normal Rabbit 's Serum on Injection into the Guineapig(6 .
) Action of Haemolysin on Injection into the Guinea-pig .
( 7 .
) Lesions in the Guinea-pig 's Stomach due to Causes other than Haemolysin or Gastrolysin .
( 8 .
) Conclusions .
( 1 .
) Meth o d s .
Preparation of Mucous Membrane for Injection.\#151 ; The instruments used for this purpose are a knife , a porcelain plate , a glass mortar , and a 10 c.c. syringe , all of which can be sterilized with the greatest ease .
A guinea-pig which has been previously starved for about 24 hours , so that its stomach is empty , is killed with chloroform and the stomach at once cut out .
It is opened and thoroughly washed in a stream of sterilized 0'86-per-cent , salt solution , all the adherent mucus being completely removed .
The mucous membrane is then scraped off and ground up into an emulsion with salt solution , which is then injected ] into the peritoneal cavity of a rabbit .
I have also used subcutaneous injections and have obtained the same results , but as suppuration is so liable to occur I have discarded them .
In two cases a fresh filtered extract of the mucous membrane was used for intraperitoneal injection .
In one of these cases a Od-per-cent .
hydrochloric acid solution and in the other a 0'4-per-cent , sodium bicarbonate solution was used for making the extract .
The mucous | 2904 ] Production of a Specific 137 j membrane was ground up in a glass mortar with a small quantity of | sterilized sand in order to break up the cells , and an emulsion made swith one of the above solutions .
The emulsion was then filtered | through a Pasteur-Chamberland filter and the resulting filtrate used | for injection .
The effects obtained on injecting the serum of these two rabbits into guinea-pigs were exactly the same as those which resulted from injection of the serum of rabbits which had received injections of stomach cells . .
Collection of Blood.\#151 ; The blood is collected by opening a vessel of the ear , if possible an artery , having first shaved and disinfected the skin .
In this way from 30-40 c.c. of blood can easily be obtained , without injury to the animal , especially if a flask of hot water be placed in contact with the ear to promote vaso-dilatation .
The blood is whipped and centrifugalised .
The resulting serum is examined : ( 1 ) With regard to its action upon the stomach cells of the guinea-pig in vitro ; ( 2 ) With regard to its action upon the guinea-pig 's stomach when injected into the peritoneal cavity of that animal .
Examination in Vitro.-\#151 ; My plan has been to take a scraping from a fresh guinea-pig 's stomach and carefully tease out the stomach glands in salt solution , separating them from the submucous and other tissue mixed with them .
This is quite easily done by using the low power of a microscope or a dissecting lens .
A portion of these glands is then placed in the serum to be examined , and a similar portion in normal rabbit 's serum , the latter being used as a control .
The glands are examined at various periods of time up to 24 hours in the fresh condition , and also after fixing with osmic acid and staining with picro-carmine .
In several cases small portions of the stomach wall were immersed in the serum for various periods of time and finally hardened , cut into sections in paraffin , and stained with haematoxylin and eosin .
Preparation far Microscopical Examination.\#151 ; Patches of necrosed tissue with surrounding healthy mucous membrane were cut into a series of sections by the paraffin method .
Eight or ten adjacent sections were selected from each row and fixed on slides , from six to twelve slides being thus obtained from each block .
The sections were stained with haematoxylin and eosirt .
The stomachs of twenty animals have been investigated in this manner .
( 2 .
) Effects of Injections of the Stomach Cells of the Guinea-pig into the Rabbit .
( a ) Symptoms following Injection .
The immediate symptoms in the rabbit are those of collapse , the temperature sinking to about 96 ' , the respiration being accelerated , and .
the animal prostrate .
This is simply a vascular phenomenon due to the shock of injection , and the condition is soon recovered from , the animal subsequently taking its food well , and seeming to be quite healthy .
Sometimes there is a fall in body weight , but this is by q3 means constant , I have not found that any toxic symptoms follow the injection , and if the animal dies it is the result of bacterial infection .
( b ) Changes in the Babbit 's Blood .
After four or five injections at intervals of 10 days , the blood serum of the rabbit is found to possess toxic properties .
Action in Yitro.\#151 ; Contrary to the results of several observers , who have found that many tissue cells become dissolved in their corresponding cytotoxic sera , I have never been able to detect any difference whatever between the glands which had .
been exposed to the gastrolytic serum and those which had been similarly treated with normal rabbit 's serum , although a marked effect was obtained on injecting the former serum into guinea-pigs .
In those cases in which the glands had been exposed for long periods of time to the two sera , each showed an equal degree of maceration in proportion to the time of exposure .
138 Dr. C. Bolton .
On [ July 26 Action on Injection into Guinea-pigs .
Symptoms following Injection.\#151 ; In about half-an-hour after intraperitoneal injection of the serum the symptoms are well marked .
The animal sits huddled up , with hair erect , and will not move .
The temperature becomes subnormal .
If the dose of serum is small ( 1\#151 ; 5 c.c. ) , the animal will probably have quite recovered by the following day , but with large doses ( 10 c.c. ) it becomes rapidly worse , and finally general twitchings commence , and the animal lies prostrate , death occurring generally within 24 hours .
In one case a guinea-pig weighing 280 grammes was killed by 5 c.c. , and in another an animal weighing 140 grammes by 1 c.c. , but , as a rule , the killing power of the smaller doses is uncertain .
It may be stated that in most cases a dose of 10 c.c. is fatal for a guinea-pig weighing from 200\#151 ; 300 grammes within 24 hours .
All guinea-pigs which are killed by the serum invariably show lesions in their stomachs , and a large proportion of those which receive small doses and recover show similar lesions .
' Speaking generally , the larger the dose administered , the greater is the effect upon the stomach .
| The lesions always occur during the first 24 hours after injection. .
Macroscopic Appearance of Lesions in Stomach.\#151 ; The lesions consist ; of patches of necrosis in the mucous membrane , and haemorrhage .
All the following lesions are described from cases which survived and | 1904 .
] Production of a Specific Gastrotoodc Serum .
139 Swear killed on the following day , post-mortem lesions being thus { absolutely excluded .
1 The areas of necrosis appear in the form of black patches , round or lirregular in shape , from the size of a pin 's head to a large area , ^occupying a third or more of the surface of the stomach , and contrasting ^markedly with the surrounding mucous membrane which is normal .
'The black colour is due to altered blood pigment , a variable amount of !
which is usually found clinging with particles of food to the necrosed 'patches , from which it can be washed off , leaving the blackened and ; necrosed tissue plainly visible .
This altered blood is present in very variable amount , sometimes being in considerable quantity , at other times scanty , with the necrosis greatly in excess .
j The patches are found most commonly near or on one of the curvatures , but they may occur anywhere in the stomach .
Their usual f situation on the curvatures may be due to the fact that the main bloodvessels of the stomach run along the latter , and , therefore , these parts are the first to be exposed to the action of the toxin .
Sometimes , also , the patches spread out into streaks , passing along the anterior and posterior walls of the stomach from the curvatures , as if they followed the distribution of the blood-vessels .
In some places the necrosed tissue has disappeared , leaving ulcers with blackened edges and bases .
After about 48 hours the black tissue apparently disappears , leaving a perfectly clean and sharply punched out ulcer .
Microscopic Appearance.\#151 ; The necrosed patches are sharply marked off from the normal tissue , and do not extend beyond the muscularis mucosae , the muscular coats and peritoneum being normal .
The cells of the glands ' in the necrosed patch , when they can be distinguished , are seen to be diffusely and very faintly stained by the eosin , their outlines are clouded , and they look shrunken ; the nuclei are not stained , although towards the margin of the patch they can just ' be distinguished .
I In a small patch , which is apparently just commencing , the cells , both \gt ; oxyntic and central , have the above appearances , whilst the interstitial f connective tissue cells take the stain well , and show up by contrast .
In I a farther advanced stage the whole patch is* diffusely stained a faint I pink colour or totally unstained , and the gland cells are irregularly | arranged more or less in columns , but no definite idea of what structure I had preceded this patch can be made out .
A certain amount of I altered blood pigment in the form of scattered brownish granules I can be seen , but , as a rule , the necrosed tissue is singularly free from I blood .
Towards the edge of the patch the normal tissue contains a few j Necrosed cells , and the edges and base are infiltrated with leucocytes .
B In many sections the bases of the glands do not appear to be so I disintegrated as the inner ends .
Sometimes the patch looks like a 140 Dr. C. Bolton .
On the [ July 26 , brownish coagulated mass in which no structure can be made out * at other times strands of interstitial tissue alone can be seen , the gland cells having completely disappeared .
A definite ulcer is formed by the gradual disappearance of the necrosed tissue .
The blood in the vessels is generally normal , and frequently so when they are situated inside the necrosed patch .
In the other cases it is apparently hsemolysed , and in one case a large mass of hsemolysed blood was seen infiltrating the submucous tissue .
The remaining portions of the alimentary canal have invariably ! !
been found to be normal , and no lesion has been detected in any other organ of the body .
The primary lesion in this necrotic process isI think , undoubtedly the result of a direct action of the gastrotoxin upon the gland cells , with a subsequent digestion of this tissue byl the gastric juice , the black colour being due to the action of the gastric juice upon the blood which is contained in the necrosed patch .
] As no change as a result of the action of the gastrotoxin vitro can be made out , the questions must be raised whether the serum can produce necrosis when it attacks a cell having its normal lymph supply and normal connections in the body , or whether it only ] produces a devitalisation of the cell , thus -allowing of its digestion byi the gastric juice , which in this way renders the lesions visible/ - Previous work upon other cytotoxins does not settle the question one way or the other , because in some cases necrosis has been stated to occur , as in the liver , whilst in other cases no change has been found whatever , as in the pancreas and suprarenal body .
Haemolysis undoubtedly occurs to a variable extent in different cases , and may account for a part of the haemorrhage , though usually no laking of the blood can be seen in the vessels of the stomach .
In my opinion the lesions are not primarily due to haemorrhage , because the appearance of a haemorrhagic erosion is different from the necrotic patches described above ; there are no haemorrhages to be seen in the mucous membrane of the stomach , such as one would expect , and none occur in any other organ of the body .
There is , j moreover , no reason to suppose that the capillary endothelium of the ; stomach is sufficiently special in constitution to evoke the formation ] of a specific endotheliolysin .
Infarction can also be excluded by the limitation of the lesion to j the mucous membrane , by the very irregular shape of the large patches , | which sometimes contain islands of normal tissue , and by the fact | that no clots can be found in the vessels either of the stomach or any j other organ .
In some cases where the haemolytic factor is more than usually in | evidence , there is no doubt that some of the erosions may be the result | of such a factor , but in my experience these erosions present quite a | different appearance from the necrotic patches described above , the | I tissue being obviously broken up by the blood .
It is a remarkable | fact that evidence of haemolysis should be found in the stomach and I not in the other organs of the body in these cases .
I Nature of the Gastrolytic Serum.\#151 ; The experiments which I have made 1 indicate that the gastrotoxin consists of an " immune body " or | " amboceptor , " which is newly formed in the blood as a result of the I injection of the stomach cells , and a " complement " which is contained I in the normal blood serum .
| Effects of Heat.\#151 ; It the serum be heated to from 55\#151 ; 60 ' C. for \#166 ; !
1 hour its action on injection into the guinea-pig is destroyed , I although the control animals which are injected with unheated serum ; show extensive necrosis of the stomach .
On the other hand , if heated fj serum be added to an equal volume of normal rabbit 's serum , the j action is restored when the mixture is injected into the guinea-pig , I but the resulting lesions are not quite so extensive as in the case of | the unheated serum .
; j The guinea-pig 's complement does not appear to possess a haptoi phoric affinity corresponding to the complementophile affinity of the : gastrolytic amboceptor .
The action of a hsemolysin , formed by I injecting a rabbit with guinea-pig 's corpuscles , is , on the contrary , not | destroyed by heat ; this agrees with the test-tube phenomenon that ( guinea-pig 's normal serum will reactivate the heated haemolytic serum \lt ; ' of a rabbit .
: Specificity of the Gastrotoxin.\#151 ; This property has been tested by j mixing various cells with gastrolytic serum previous to its injection I into the guinea-pig , in order to determine whether guinea-pig 's j stomach cells alone or whether any other cells could extract the | amboceptor .
The cells were allowed to remain in contact with the serum for I 1 hour at laboratory temperature , and were then centrifugalised off | and the supernatant serum injected .
Control animals were in each I case injected with untreated serum .
Admixture of Guinea-pig 's Stomach Cells.\#151 ; Whether the stomach cells } are washed free from blood or not they anchor the amboceptor and I carry it down on centrifugalisation , with the result that the serum is rendered inactive on injection into the animal .
Guinea-pig 's Liver Cells.\#151 ; The liver cells washed free from blood fail to extract the amboceptor , and necrosis of the stomach results when I the serum is injected .
Guinea-pig 's Red Blood Corpuscles.\#151 ; The experiment was done in two ways , and in each case the red corpuscles failed to extract the amboceptor .
In one case the gastrolytic serum was cooled to 0 ' C. and mixed with the corpuscles ; the mixture being kept at 0 ' C. for I 1 hour , was afterwards centrifugalised .
In another case the serum I was heated to 60 ' C. for an hour ; excess of red corpuscles was then 1904 .
] Production o f a Specific Serum .
142 Dr. C. Bolton .
On the [ July 26,1 added to it and the mixture kept at laboratory temperature for 1 hour , rj The corpuscles were then centrifugalised off and normal rabbit 's al serum added to the supernatant fluid .
On injecting this mixture into a guinea-pig stomach lesions resulted .
It was proved that the corpuscles had extracted the haemolytic ji factor , because on adding to the heated serum some guinea-pig 's I corpuscles and normal guinea-pig 's serum , complete laking resulted , 1 whereas on adding the corpuscles and normal serum to the gastrolytic J serum , which had been treated with red corpuscles previously , no 1 laking or only a slight discoloration of the serum immediately above i the deposited corpuscles was visible after 24 hours .
Rabbit 's Stomach Cells.\#151 ; These cells also failed to extract the gastrolytic amboceptor .
As will be seen later , this experiment stands i on a different footing from the last three , and the fact of the cells failing to extract the amboceptor does not prove that they do not ' possess an affinity for such amboceptor .
Relation to Hcemolysis.\#151 ; The specificity of the gastrotoxin was also | tested by immunising a rabbit against washed guinea-pig 's stomach , v The washing was carried out by passing a cannula into the thoracic f aorta , cutting the inferior vena cava above the diaphragm , and then allowing a stream of sterilised salt solution to flow through the cannula S until the blood was completely washed out of all the abdominal organs .
1 This experiment is quite easily accomplished .
The serum of this rabbit showed a great increase in its haemolytic 1 power after it had received three injections of stomach cells , and the \#166 ; ; serum on injection into a guinea-pig caused necrosis of the stomach .
This experiment affords confirmation of the fact , which was first | demonstrated in the case of spermatozoa by Moxter and in the case I of ciliated epithelium by Von Dungern , that different kinds of cells I may contain similar receptors .
In the present instance the gastric cells not only contain specific 1 receptors peculiar to themselves , but they also contain receptors f similar to those of red blood corpuscles .
Whether other cells of the j body may contain receptors similar to those which I have stated as | being peculiar to the gastric cells , the above experiments do not | conclusively prove .
So far as they go the experiments prove that , 1 at any rate if present in other cells , the gastric receptors are not so | abundant in them as in the gastric cells themselves ; other cells may j contain a few of those receptors , but not sufficient to extract all the | immune body contained in the serum .
At any rate , in the present state of our knowledge , these experi- J ments tend to show that the gastrotoxin not only contains a specific I amboceptor , which has an affinity for the receptors peculiar to the gastric cells , but also an amboceptor having an affinity for the 1 receptors which the gastric cell possesses in common with red blood J 1904 .
] Production of a Specific Gastrotoxic Serum .
143 | corpUscles .
The term " specificity " used strictly should not , therefore , I be applied to the gastrolytic serum itself , but to that part of it which j kas a specific affinity for the receptors peculiar to the gastric cells .
( c ) Changes in the Rabbit 's Peritoneum .
If an animal which has received several injections be killed a few i weeks after the last one , the peritoneum will show slight opacity and j thickening in various places , or slight adhesions between adjacent j coils of intestine may be seen , or small pedunculated nodules may i be present .
The remaining portions of the peritoneum are quite t normal .
The nodules on section are found to be composed of concentric layers of fibrous tissue , generally enclosing within them a group of epithelioid cells , and occasionally a giant cell , the nuclei of which are 1 arranged in the centre .
Whether these nodules are formed during [ the absorption of the stomach cells , as they were not seen in the cases !
in which an extract of stomach cells was injected , or owing to the 1 presence of isolate 'd bacteria , I am not prepared to state .
At any rate , a bacteriological examination of such a peritoneum shows that it ; is sterile .
I A few days after an injection the peritoneum is in places smeared over with a thin layer of cheesy material , and masses of the same material may exist between the coils of the intestine ; elsewhere the peritoneum is normal .
Microscopically , this substance consists of proliferated peritoneal epithelium and exuded leucocytes .
This substance is also sterile on cultivation .
Last year , after I had commenced the present research , a paper was | published by Theohari and Babes on a gastrotoxin . .
This is the only j paper , so far as I am aware , dealing with the subject , and , as the authors obtained different results from mine , I will here briefly [ enumerate them .
The mucous membrane of the dog 's stomach was subcutaneously [ injected into the goat , and , on injection of the goat 's serum into the I dog , they obtained the following results :\#151 ; I ( 1 ) Pronounced hypersecretion of the stomach cells in the case of j the weak gastrotoxic serum .
( 2 ) Rapid death , with intense hypersemia of the stomach , and especially of the intestine in the case of the stronger serum .
( 3 ) In small doses , excitation of .
gastro-intestinal peristalsis and l intestinal haemorrhage .
The chief cells in the stomach show functional | changes ; the marginal cells show degenerative changes .
No change I in the pyloric region of the stomach or the large intestine .
( 4 ) The serum , specific against the peptic region of the , dog 's K stomach , produces , moreover , material alterations in the small I intestine , whilst the large intestine remains normal .
144 Dr. C. Bolton .
On [ July 26 , ( 3 .
) Effects of Injection of the Stomach Cells of the Rabbit into the Rabbit .
The same initial symptoms , and the same changes in the rabbit 's peritoneum , are observed as in the case of injection of guinea-pig 's stomach cells .
F Changes in the Babbit 's Blood.\#151 ; I have been unable to produce any ' stomach lesion , or demonstrate any toxic action , on injecting the serum into a rabbit .
Action on Injection into the Guinea-pig.\#151 ; 'That toxic properties , however , I have shown by injecting the serum into guinea-pigs .
Identical lesions are obtained by such injections with those described above .
Effects of Heat.\#151 ; My experiments so far tend to show that , on heating the serum to 50\#151 ; 60 ' C. for 1 hour , the action is destroyed if the serum has only a low toxicity , but that some action may remain \#187 ; in the case of the more toxic sera .
According to these results , the ; guinea-pig serum may to some extent complement this amboceptor .
Effects of Previous Treatment with Guinea-pig 's Stomach Cells._The I stomach cells extract the amboceptor , and render the serum inactive , 1 as described in dealing with the serum obtained by injecting the j rabbit with guinea-pig 's cells .
Effects of Previous Treatment with Rabbit 's Stomach In this case ' the rabbit 's stomach cells entirely fail to anchor the amboceptor , and , on injecting the serum thus treated into a guinea-pig , necrosis of the j stomach results .
The same result was seen in the serum of rabbits immunised with guinea-pig 's cells .
From these experiments I think it may be inferred that the rabbit \ can produce a gastrolytic serum when rabbit 's stomach cells are injected into its body .
And also , that the immune body thus pro- j duced has two- cytophilic affinities : ( 1 ) for the receptors of the I rabbit 's stomach cells , since it is formed in response to their injection ; \ ( 2 ) for the guinea-pig 's stomach cells , since it causes necrosis of them .
Another alternative would be to assume that two separate immune j bodies are formed .
Whichever of these two views be accepted , the 1 conclusion follows gthat the failure of the rabbit 's stomach cells to I anchor the immune body for which they have an affinity points to the hypothesis that this junction is prevented by the interposition of an anti-immune body , this anti-immune body having presumably been formed by the rabbit to protect its own stomach and prevent \ autolysis .
If we accept the view that two separate immune bodies are formed , we must also conclude that the rabbit 's stomach cell has receptors \ similar to thejguinea-pig 's , as well as those peculiar to itself ; this view presents the difficulty that we cannot explain why the guinea- J r l 1904 .
] Production of a Specific Serum .
145 \#174 ; ^ pig 's cells should anchor the immune body , whilst the rabbit 's cells #| will not .
On the other hand , if we accept the view that there is one immune body only , but that it has two cytophilic affinities , that correxlsponding to the rabbit 's receptor being saturated by an anti-immune body , but that , corresponding to the guinea-pig 's receptor being free , | | the above difficulty vanishes .
mm ( 4 .
) Effects of Injection of the Stomach Cells of .
the Guinea-pig into the Guinea-pig .
t f l R . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
The serum in this case was shown to be toxic by injecting it into a j rabbit , when typical necrosis resulted .
A difficulty encountered here k is due to the fact that a sufficient amount of blood cannot be obtained r from the guinea-pig in order to inject an amount corresponding to the Vi weight of the rabbit which would lead to a result as marked as that \amp ; obtained in the guinea-pig 's stomachs described above .
I This experiment also shows that when an animal absorbs cells which n !
have been taken from the body of an identical animal its blood becomes 1 toxic .
( 5 .
) Action of Normal Rabbit 's Serum on the Guinea-pig .
The blood serum of the rabbit is to some extent haemolytic for the I guinea-pig 's red corpuscles .
On injection of the serum into a I guinea-pig , even in large does ( 20 c.c. ) , no lesions are found in the I stomach or alimentary canal such as result from haemolysis .
In one I case a patch of engorged vessels was seen in the stomach , but no I haemorrhage or necrosis was to be observed .
( 6 .
) Action of Strongly Haemolytic Serum .
After a rabbit has received several injections of guinea-pig 's red \#166 ; corpuscles a marked effect is observed on injecting the rabbit 's blood \#166 ; serum into a guinea-pig .
The lesions produced consist of haemorrhage with distortion and solution of1 the blood corpuscles .
The haemor- I rhages are best seen in the alimentary canal .
They occur in the | stomach and lead to erosions of the mucous membrane as a secondary I ' consequence , but patches of necrosis in the mucous membrane are not j seen .
Haemorrhages are also seen in the lymphatic follicles of the | intestine , especially the colon .
There is intense engorgement of the ; organs and haemorrhages may occur all over the mesentery .
Effects of Heat.\#151 ; On heating the haemolytic serum to 50\#151 ; 60 ' C. for if an hour , its action is not destroyed , the guinea-pig 's serum being able to complement the haemolytic amboceptor .
The differences between \#166 ; the action of a haemolytic and a gastrotoxic serum are thus seen to | be very considerable .
146 Production of a Specific Serum .
( 7 .
) Lesions in the Guinea-pig 's Stomach due to Causes other than Haemolysis or Gastrolysis are occasionally seen .
If the stomachs of a large number of normal guinea-pigs are examined regularly , there may occasionally be seen patches of congestion in the mucous membrane ; sometimes haemorrhages are present and in two cases I have found ulcers .
What the pathology of this condition is does not seem quite clear , but probably the ulcers are of haemorrhagic origin .
In two cases of septic peritonitis in guinea-pigs I have found haemorrhage into the stomach and small intestine .
On microscopic examination they present a very typical appearance , the blood being extravasated into the substance of the mucous membrane , and exhibiting quite a different appearance from patches of necrosis .
( 8 .
) Conclusions .
( a. ) On either intraperitoneal or subcutaneous injection of the stomach cells ( or a fresh extract of them ) of the guinea-pig into the rabbit , the blood serum of the latter becomes highly toxic for guineapigs .
( b. ) The serum leads to death on injection into the guinea-pig and causes necrosis of the mucous membrane of the stomach , leading to .
ulceration and haemorrhage .
( c. ) The toxin contained in the serum consists of at least two factors : ( 1 ) A specific Gastrolysin , which leads to necrosis ; ( 2 ) A Haemolysin which assists in producing haemorrhage .
The haemolytic factor can be removed , leaving the gastrolytic , which still produces stomach lesions .
( d. ) The gastrolysin is a specific cytotoxin and consists of an immune body and a complement .
( e. ) The gastrolysin does not visibly affect the cells vitro .
( / .
) The gastrolysin does not produce necrosis in the stomach of the animal which has elaborated it , possibly owing to the concomitant formation of an anti-immune body .
( g. ) By injection of the stomach cells of the rabbit into the rabbit a gastrolysin is formed which causes necrosis in the guinea-pig 's j stomach ; it therefore possesses at least two cytophilic affinities .
( h. ) By injection of the stomach cells of the guinea-pig into the guinea-pig a gastrolysin is formed which causes necrosis in the stomach of the rabbit ; this gastrolysin is probably of a similar nature as the j preceding .
( k. ) The importance of the above conclusions with regard to the | pathology of human gastric ulcer lies in the fact that an animal can elaborate in its blood by the absorption of the cells of a similar animal , J Bolton .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 74 , Plate 8 .
Stomach of Guinea-pig showing Two Ulcers .
The animal received an injection of 12 c.c. of a weak gastrotoxic serum , and after 24 hours it wa3 killed .
The serum was prepared by injecting a rabbit with fresh extract of gumea-pig 's stomach cells .
Stomach of Guinea-pig showing a Large Ulcer situated on the Greater Curvature and several Smaller Ones .
The animal received an injection of 12 c.c. of gastrotoxic serum , and was almost dead after 24 hours , when it was killed .
The serum in this case was prepared by injecting a rabbit with rabbit 's stomach cells 5 in the other four cases guinea-jpig 's stomach was used for injection .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , dton- vol. 74 , Plate 9 , Section of Stomach Wall of Guinea-pig showing a large area of Necrosis in the Mucous Membrane .
The animal received an injection of 4 c.c. of gastrotoxic serum , and was killed 24 hours afterwards .
Election of Stomach Wall of imea-pig at the edge of a Erotic Patch .
A blood-vessel t taining normal red coracles can be seen in the Jch .
The animal received |e .
of gastrotoxic serum , and ill killed the next day .
Section of Stomach Wall of Guinea-pig showing an Ulcer .
The animal received 10 c.c. of weak gastrotoxic serum , and was killed 48 hours afterwards .
Action on Staphylococcus pyogenes Human , etc. 147 land therefore presumably of its own , a toxin which would cause \#166 ; necrosis in the mucous membrane of its own stomach were it not for some deterring influence , probably the concomitant formation of an ianti-immune body .
REFERENCES .
Th^ohari et Babbs .
" Note sir un Gastrotoxine , " ' Count .
rend , de la Soc. de Biol. , ' 1903 , No. 13 .
Yon Dungern . . . .
' Munich Med. Wochenschriffc , ' 1899 .
I Moxfcer ... ... ... ... ... ... .
' Deutsche Med. Wochenschrift , ' 1900 .
I " On the Action exerted upon the Staphylococcus pyogenes by Human Blood Fluids , and on the Elaboration of Protective Elements in the Human Organism in Response to Inoculations of a Staphylococcus Vaccine .
" By A. E. W r ig h t , M .D .
, late Professor of Pathology , Army Medical School , Netley , Pathologist .
to St. Mary 's Hospital , Paddington , W .
, and S t ew a r t R. D oug las , M.R.C.S. , Captain , Indian Medical Service .
Communicated by Sir J. B urd o n Sa n d e r so n , Bart. , F.RS .
Received July 26 , 1904 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory of St. Mary 's Hospital , London , W. ) The subject matter with which we have here to deal may be I distributed under the following headings:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Determination of the nature of the action which is exerted upon I the Staphylococcus pyogenes by normal human blood fluids , and by the 1 blood fluids of patients who have been inoculated with a staphylococcus \#166 ; vaccine .
( 2 ) Comparison of the phagocytic power of the subjects of staphyllococcus invasion with the phagocytic power of normal individuals .
( 3 ) Distribution in the infected organism of the opsonins which here \#166 ; come into consideration .
( 4 ) Determination of the question as to whether the opsonins are I present in the blood of the infant at birth .
( 5 ) Determination of the course of the reaction of immunisation \#166 ; which supervenes upon the inoculation of a staphylococcus vaccine .
1 ( 1 ) Nature of the Action which is exerted upon the Staphylococcus pyogenes by Normal Blood Fluids , and by the Blood Fluids Inoculated with a Staphylococcus Vaccine .
I Bactericidal Action.\#151 ; It was shown in the course of the classical fS researches on the bactericidal power of the blood which were conducted

