III .
" On some further Evidence bearing on the Excavation of the Valley of the Somme by River-action , as exhibited in a Section at Drucat near Abbeville .
" By JOSEPH PRESTWICH , F.R.S. Received January 29 , 1864 .
On the occasion of a late visit to Abbeville , I noticed a fact which appears of sufficient interest , as bearing upon and conifirming one of the points treated of in my last paper , to induce me to submit a short notice of it to the Royal Society .
It occurs in a tributary valley to that of the Somme , but necessarily forms part of the general phenomena affecting the whole basin .
small stream ( the Escardon ) which joins the Somme at Abbeville flows through a narrow chalk valley extending a few miles north ot Abbeville .
Three miles up this valley is the village of Drucat ; and on the hill above the village , and about I 00 feet above the stream , is a small outlier of high-level gravel which I have before described , and which is remarkable for the number and size of its sandand gravel-pipes penetrating the underlying chalk .
One of these which I measured was 22 feet across at the top and 18 feet at a depth of 30 feet , and I estimated its depth at not less than 100 feet from the surface .
It was filled in the usual way with sand and gravel in vertical cylindrical layers .
M. Boucher de Perthes has two flint implements which are reported to have come from the pit ; but I never myself found any there , or any mammalian remains .
The sand and gravel is clean and light-coloured , and very similar in character to some of the beds at Menchecourt , and in so far has the appearance of a fluviatile gravel , and , like it , is overlain by a variable bed of loess .
This bed was supposed to form an isolated outlier ; but on my last visit 1 found another bed , though of coarser materials , on a hill of the same height on the opposite side of the valley , above l'Hleure .
The valley at the foot of the hill on which the Drucat gravel is worked is about a quarter of a mile wide .
A lane leads direct down the slope of the hill from a point near the gravel to the valley ; and a roadside cutting exposes a section of calcareous tufa or travertiin several feet thick , and containing in places numerous land shells , of recent species , and traces of plants .
Half a mile bevond , the bed is of sufficient importance to be worked for building-purposes .
This bed is overlain by the valley loess , and is in places intercalated with it ; it commences a few feet below the level of the gravel at about 70 feet above the valley , and continues to near the foot of the hill .
Now it is well proved that in all purely chalk districts the line of water .
level proceeds from the level of the streams and rivers traversing the dis .
IIo il U1 1 4 .
1:1 , , 1 4jf1:I / It L,1 n 1 ' 71 I11I I '.0 trict , in a slightly ilnelined and continuous plane rising on either side under the adjacent hills with a slope varying from 10 to 40 feet in the mile , the latter being an extreme case .
If we take a meani of 20 feet , as the gravelpit is not above one-third of a mile from the valley , the rise in the water underneath would not probably exceed 10 feet above the level of the stream .
The chalk formation is so generally fissured and permeable that I know of no instance of a line of water-level or of springs occurring above the general line dependent upon the level of the adjacent rivers .
It is also well known that strong springs are common at the foot of the hills along many of our chalk valleys , as , for instance , that at Amwell , those at Carshalton , and many along the valley of the Thames .
These springs are more or less calcareous , often highly so .
It is evident that the travertin at Drucat has been formed by a deposit from a spring of considerable volume ; and it further appears that it flowed while the loess was in the course of formation .
For the tufa could only have been formed at or near the level of the spring ; so that its continiued deposit down the slope of the hill shows the spring to have been gradually lowered as the valley became deeper , and while subject to the continued inundations which deposited the loess .
The line of present water-level in the chalk here is about 90 feet below the summit of the hill , as proved by a well in any adjacent farmhouse , and at the gravel-pit they have gone down 60 feet without reaching water .
But the level of the upper part of the tufa shows the line of water-level or of springs to have been at one time 70 feet above the valley , which could only have happened when the bottom of the valley was on a level 60 to 70 feet higher than it now is .
The gradual deepening of the valley is indicated by the gradual lowering of the spring until it reached to within from 20 to 30 feet of the present valley-level , when it became extinct .
Further , we have in the adjacent bed of high-level gravel evidence of the origin of this important spring ; for the sands and gravelbeds are not only very thick , but they are also perfectly free from calcareous matter and very permeable , and they show in their numerous gravelpipes how great must have been the volume and solvent power of the rainwater which at one time percolated through them .
The water , after passing through the gravel and acting upon the underlying chalk to form these large vertical cavities , would , upon reaching the original line of water-level , have flowed off horizontally and escaped in a strong spring at the base of the adjacent slope .
It there parted with its excess of the carbonate of lime , and so formed the calcareous tufa .
This case furnishes therefore new arid good evidence on two points:-first , on the connexion of the sandand gravel-pipes with the percolation of fresh water through calcareous rocks ; and secondly , on the condition of the former land surface and of the springs , only possible on the hypothesis of former higher levels of the bottom of the valley and of its gradual excavation .
find matter for industry and patience .
I have done a little in this subject , but not enough to deserve any special mention .
In order , however , to diminish the difficulties , the investigation may be provisionally restricted to the mutual actions of the envelopesi neglecting for the time that of the nuclei , which may be considered as a disturbing cause , for which some correction may afterwards have to be made , So much then for the mathematical and theoretic development of molecular mechanics .
There remains the third part , which , though the most laborious of all , will yet give the greatest pleasure to scientific men ; since it is less dry , and opens a way for attaining the end aimed at in the natural sciences .
Of this third part I will add a few words .
III .
APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR MECHANICS .
[ Under this head the author points out the various properties of bodies which would have to be explained , and of which he conceives an explanation might be afforded could the mathematical calculations be effected which are required for the elaboration of his theory , and enunciates the following conclusions as deduced from his explanation of the impact of bodies .
] 1 .
If a body does not contain any repulsive elements , it cannot cause any retardation in the movement of any impinging body .
2 .
Again , if the medium through which a body moves contain no repulsive elements , no retardation of its motion can take place .
3 .
If a medium does contain repulsive elements , retardation must necessarily take place .
4 , Consequently , as the planets in their movements through the rether do not suffer any loss of velocity , it must be concluded that the aether does not contain any repulsive elements at all , and that its elasticity must be explained without any recourse to repulsive forces .
This last inference is somewhat wonderful , and decidedly curious : but after much consideration it appeared to me so natural , and so well harmonising with other truths and scientific theories , that I ceased to hesitate about its adoption and gave it a most decided assent ; whether wisely or not , I leave others to judge .
III .
" On some further Evidence bearing on the Excavation of the Valley of the Somme by River-action , as exhibited in a Section at Drucat near Abbeville .
" By JOSEPH PRESTWICH , F.R.S. Received January 29 , 1864 .
On the occasion of a late visit to Abbeville , I noticed a fact which appears of sufficient interest , as bearing upon and confirming one of the points treated of in my last paper , to induce me to submit a short notice of it to the Royal Society .
It occurs in a tributary valley to that of the Somme , but necessarily forms part of the general phenomena affecting the whole basin .
135 The small stream ( the Escardon ) which joins the Somme at Abbeville flows through a narrow chalk valley extending a few miles north ot Abbeville .
Three miles up this valley is the\ I1 1t village of Drucat ; and on the hill above the\ tr 11|l village , and about 100 feet above the stream , is a small outlier of high-level gravel which Ii have before described , and which is remarkI able for the number and size of its sandand | gravel-pipes penetrating the underlying chalk .
I One of these which I measured was 22 feet u across at the top and 18 feet at a depth of 30 feet , and I estimated its depth at not less i than 100 feet from the surface .
It was filled I 3 !
in the usual way with sand and gravel in ver-| tical cylindrical layers .
M. Boucher de Perthes 01[ * has two flint implements which are reported to have come from the pit ; but I never myself found any there , or any mammalian remains .
p The sand and gravel is clean and light-coloured , and very similar in character to some of the i &lt; ?
beds at Menchecourt , and in so far has the j appearance of a fluviatile gravel , and , like it , is overlain by a variable bed of loess .
This bed I was supposed to form an isolated outlier ; but , &gt; I on my last visit I found another bed , though of i2 f : i coarser materials , on a hill of the same height I t ' on the opposite side of the valley , above l'Heure .
iI4 The valley at the foot of the hill on which the f - .
Drucat gravel is worked is about a quarter of a , I '\ mile wide .
A lane leads direct down the slope iL Ill of the hill from a point near the gravel to the valley ; and a roadside cutting exposes a section I of calcareous tufa or travertin several feet thick , ' j : i and containing in places numerous land shells , lI of recent species , and traces of plants .
Half a ... mile beyond , the bed is of sufficient importance 1lII to be worked for building-purposes .
This bedli- } 4 , is overlain by the valley loess , and is in places [ l tI 11intercalated with it ; it commences a few feet below the level of the gravel at about 70 feet l above the valley , and continues to near the foot if ' of the hill .
Now it is well proved that in all purely chalk districts the line of waterlevel proceeds from the level of the streams and rivers traversing the dis .
136 [ Feb. 11 , trict , in a slightly inclined and continuous plane rising on either side under the adjacent hills with a slope varying from 10 to 40 feet in the mile , the latter being an extreme case .
If we take a mean of 20 feet , as the gravelpit is not above one-third of a mile from the valley , the rise in the water underneath would not probably exceed 10 feet above the level of the stream .
The chalk formation is so generally fissured and permeable that I know of no instance of a line of water-level or of springs occurring above the general line dependent upon the level of the adjacent rivers .
It is also well known that strong springs are common at the foot of the hills along many of our chalk valleys , as , for instance , that at Amwell , those at Carshalton , and many along the valley of the Thames .
These springs are more or less calcareous , often highly so .
It is evident that the travertin at Drucat has been formed by a deposit from a spring of considerable volume ; and it further appears that it flowed while the loess was in the course of formation .
For the tufa could only have been formed at or near the level of the spring ; so that its continued deposit down the slope of the hill shows the spring to have been gradually lowered as the valley became deeper , and while subject to the continued inundations which deposited the loess .
The line of present water-level in the chalk here is about 90 feet below the summit of the hill , as proved by a well in an adjacent farmhouse , and at the gravel-pit they have gone down 60 feet without reaching water .
But the level of the upper part of the tufa shows the line of water-level or of springs to have been at one time 70 feet above the valley , which could only have happened when the bottom of the valley was on a level 60 to 70 feet higher than it now is .
The gradual deepening of the valley is indicated by the gradual lowering of the spring until it reached to within from 20 to 30 feet of the present valley-level , when it became extinct .
Further , we have in the adjacent bed of high-level gravel evidence of the origin of this important spring ; for the sands and gravelbeds are not only very thick , but they are also perfectly free from calcareous matter and very permeable , and they show in their numerous gravelpipes how great must have been the volume and solvent power of the rainwater which at one time percolated through them .
The water , after passing through the gravel and acting upon the underlying chalk to form these large vertical cavities , would , upon reaching the original line of water-level , have flowed off horizontally and escaped in a strong spring at the base of the adjacent slope .
It there parted with its excess of the carbonate of lime , and so formed the calcareous tufa .
This case furnishes therefore new and good evidence on two points:-first , on the connexion of the sandand gravel-pipes with the percolation of fresh water through calcareous rocks ; and secondly , on the condition of the former land surface and of the springs , only possible on the hypothesis of former higher levels of the bottom of the valley and of its gradual excavation .

