A paper was read , entitled , " Further Observations on the Optical Phenomena of Crystals .
" By Henry Fox Talbot , Esq. , F.R.S. The author had described , in a former paper , the remarkable* cir ?
cular mode of crystallization frequently occurring from a solution of borax in phosphoric acid , and producing , when examined by the polarising microscope , the appearance of a black cross , with four sectors of light , and occasionally coloured rings , upon each crystal .
In the present memoir , he describes some deviations from the usual forms of crystalline circles ; the most striking varieties consisting in the cross being itself highly coloured , instead of black , upon a white ground .
The author shows that these crystals consist of bo ?
racic acid alone , resulting from the decomposition of the borax by the phosphoric acid .
He gives an explanation of the optical appearances they present on the hypothesis of their beingconstituted by an aggregate of acicular crystals , radiating from a central point ; and the whole circle being of variable thickness at different distances from its centre , and acting with great energy on polarised light .
Other modes of crystalline formation , dependent chiefly on the pre2n sense or absence of combined water , are next described .
These sometimes produce crystals composed of two opposite sectors of a circle , united at the centre ; at other times , they exhibit irregular elongated shapes , having a stem , either subdivided at both extremi ?
ties into minute diverging fibres , or abruptly truncated ; and occa ?
sionally they present regular geometric forms : but , whatever be their shape , they undergo , in general , spontaneous changes in the course of one or two days after they have been formed .
The author then notices a property belonging to some crystals , similar to that possessed by the tourmaline , of analysing polarized light ; for which reason he denominates them analytic crystals .
As an example , he mentions those obtained by dissolving sulphate of chromium and potash in tartaric acid by the aid of heat .
A drop of this solution , placed on a plate of glass , soon yields , by evapora ?
tion , filmy crystals , which frequently have this property .
The plumose crystals of boracic acid , when crystallized from a solution of borax in phosphoric acid , also possess this analytic power , and present very beautiful appearances when viewed with the polarizing microscope .
Another instance occurs in the oxalate of potash and chromium , a salt whose optical properties have been investigated by Sir David Brewster .
If gum arabic be added to a solution of this salt , and a drop of it be put between two plates of glass , a very beautiful arborescent , but microscopic crystallization takes place , composing a multitude of minute prisms , growing , as if by a species of vegetation , and variously arranged in sprigs and branchlets , often resembling in miniature , the tufts of marine confervae .
A similar plumose appearance , accompanied with the same analytic properties , is obtained from the evaporation of a drop of a mixed solution of nitre and gum arabic .
This analytic effect is shown to be the consequence of the high degree of doubly refractive power pos ?
sessed by these crystalline filaments , and which exists even in those whose diameter is evanescent on microscopic examination .
The author entertains hopes that it will be possible to obtain large and permanent artificial crystals , which may possess the advantages of the tourmaline , without the inconvenience resulting from its dark colour .

