411 On the Phosphorescent Spectra of SS and Europium .
By Sir William Ckookes , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received May 16 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) The recent examination of a pure specimen of europium prepared by M. Urbain has brought to light some interesting facts connected with its phosphorescent spectrum when the sulphate is subjected to cathode radiations in a radiant matter tube .
In Demartjay 's paper announcing the discovery of europium , * he referred to the phosphorescent spectrum of the new earth in the following terms:\#151 ; " In 1885 Sir William Crookes , during his beautiful researches on electric phosphorescence in vacuo , noticed a band which he attributed to samarium , and which , by reason of its disappearance in the presence of lime and from certain other peculiarities , he called the ' anomalous line .
' Later he distinguished this , together with a large number of other bands , as belonging each to a special meta-element .
The hypothetical meta-element corresponding to the anomalous line he called SS .
M. Lecoq de Boisbaudran , in the course of his important researches on phosphorescence , confirmed the above statements with regard to this anomalous line .
In 1892 M. de Boisbaudran described a spectrum consisting of three brilliant blue lines discovered in the spark spectrum of samarium .
He concluded that they corresponded to a particular element , Ze .
About the same time he also drew attention to a particular band in the reversal spectrum of samarium , which apparently corresponded to the anomalous line .
M. de Boisbaudran , without forming very precise conclusions , inclined to the idea that this line was due to a particular element , Z\#163 ; In 1896 I discovered the presence of an element intermediate between gadolinium and samarium .
In 1900 I showed that this new element was identical with de Boisbaudran 's Ze , and that Crookes 's anomalous band was due to the same substance , as well as the reversal line Z\#163 ; . . .
Since that period , by a long series of fractionations with magnesium nitrate , I have been able to accumulate a considerable quantity of this element .
The apparently contradictory results of Crookes and de Boisbaudran are due , I think , to the very small proportions of Z\#151 ; Ze contained in their material .
I propose the name Europium for the new element , with symbol Eu , and atomic weight 151 ( approx. ) " Immediately on the publication of Demar^ay 's paper I gave reasons why * ' Comptes Rend us,1 vol. 132 , p. 1484 ; ' Chemical News , ' vol. 84 , p. 1 .
Sir W. Crookes .
On Phosphorescent [ May 16 , my earth giving the very sharp red phosphorescent line ( which I had called " the anomalous line " ) , was not the same as either de Boisbaudran 's or Demargay 's earth .
I said* " It is necessary for me to make one or two corrections to the paper of M. Demarqay .
" I have never admitted that the body called by M. de Boisbaudran Ze is the same body which gives my ' anomalous line .
' Indeed , I have good reason to think they are quite different .
The line given by M. de Boisbaudran 's Ze is broad and indistinct at the edges , while the ' anomalous line ' is absolutely sharp and narrow , like a gas-line .
Also their ref ran gibili ties are not identical .
The same remarks will apply to the body described by M. Demargay in his 1900 paper .
" The first record of the observation of the so-called anomalous line is in my paper " On Radiant Matter Spectroscopy\#151 ; Part II , Samarium , " read before the Royal Society , .Time 18 , 1885 , f which contains an account of the conditions under which this line is obtained , and my reasons for supposing it to be indicative of an elementary substance .
In paragraph 146 , I said :\#151 ; " It was interesting to ascertain what spectrum a mixture of samarium and yttrium would give ... ... ... ... I next tried a mixture of samaria 80 , and yttria 20 .
The spectrum was identical with the one last observed , with one striking difference\#151 ; the X-2 2693 line now shines out with great brilliancy of a fine orange-red colour , as sharp as a gas-line , and so unlike the bands usually met with in the spectra of phosphorescent earths as to suggest the explanation that some other spectrum-forming body was present in the mixture .
" Again , in the same paper , paragraph 165 , I wrote :\#151 ; " The anomalous line X-2 2693.\#151 ; On several occasions I have spoken of an orange line , X-2 2693 , which by its brilliancy and sharpness is a prominent object in most of the samarium-yttrium spectra .
With samaric sulphate it is exceedingly faint .
With samaria containing 5 per cent , of yttria it is very little brighter ; ... ... ..and with a mixture of 80 parts samaria and 20 parts yttria it is at its maximum intensity .
" The next year I returned to the subject , and in a paper " On some Hew Elements in Gadolinite and Samarskite , Detected Spectroscopically , J I said that I had since further investigated the occurrence of line X 6094 , " the anomalous line , " with the bringing to light of some important new facts .
I found that the body giving rise to the line closely followed samarium in my fractionations , and that the presence ol yttria was not * 'Chemical News , ' vol. 84 , p. 2 , July 5 , 1901 .
t ' Phil. Trans. , ' Part II , 1885 .
J ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' June 9 , 1886 , vol. 40 , p. 502 .
Spectra of SS and Europium .
1905 .
] necessary to bring it out , the yttria acting only by deadening the brightness of the other red , green , and orange bands of samaria , while it had little or no action on the anomalous line .
Again , I found that the addition of a little lime entirely suppressed line X 6094 , while it brought out the samarium lines with increased vigour .
I further found that in samaria prepared from different minerals the line varied greatly in intensity .
The earth from samarskite showing it strongly , while samaria from gadolinite showed no trace of line X 6094 .
" It follows , therefore , that the body whose phosphorescent spectrum gives line X 6094 occurs in samarskite but not in gadolinite ; thus it cannot be due to samarium , yttrium , or a mixture of these two elements .
The only other probable alternative is that the source of this line is a new element .
" I said:\#151 ; " A hitherto unrecognised band in the spectra by absorption or phosphorescence is not of itself definite proof of a new element , but if it is supported by chemical facts , such as I have brought forward , there is sufficient prima facie evidence that a new element is present .
Until , however , the new earths are separated in sufficient purity to enable their atomic weights to be approximately determined , and their chemical and physical properties observed , I think it is more prudent to regard them as elements on probation .
" I , therefore , named the new body SS , the S recalling the source , samarskite .
In 1887,1 again recurred to the subject of line X 6094 , and in a paper communicated to the Iloyal Society on February 10 , 1887 , * I gave the result of an extended search for the earth which gave rise to it , or S3 .
I said that S3 " is not present in the rare earths from gadolinite , xenotime , monazite , hielmite , euxenite , and arrhenite ; it is present in small quantity in cerite , and somewhat more plentifully in samarskite ... ... ... ... ..In samarskite yttrium it concentrates at a definite part of the fractionation .
A little calcium entirely suppresses the orange line , while samarium or yttrium seem to intensify it .
" Owing to want of material and pressure of other occupations , the subject was put aside until recently , when an examination of the phosphorescent spectrum of Urbain 's pure europium , in the form of ignited sulphate , led me to take up the matter once more .
Europium sulphate phosphoresces red , as described by Demarqay .
A photograph showed a complete absence of phosphorescence bands between X4800 and X2536 .
The visible spectrum consists almost exclusively of two red lines , the most refrangible being nebulous and faint , the other sharper and very bright ( fig. 1 ) , and a faint nebulosity in the position of the sodium line .
* 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 42 , p. 112 .
414 On the Phosphorescent Spectra of and Europium .
The strong phosphorescent line , which Demar^ay thinks is identical with my S3 , is shown by europia and gadolinia ; indeed , it is stronger in gadolinia Yt .
Sm.Eu .
Eu .
Ca. than in enropia .
Careful measurement shows it is not coincident with the old anomalous line , the wave-length of the europia line being X 6128 and that of S3 X 6094 .
Experiments were made in connection with the appearance of SS and the identity or non-identity of it with the similar looking line in Urbain 's earths .
Some good yttria was mixed with pure samaria in the proportion originally found to give the SS line most brilliantly , but the phosphorescing sulphate failed to show any trace of it .
To this mixture was now added a little europia , and the SS line was developed brilliantly , and occupied its normal position at X6094 ( fig. 2 ) , in a different position to the line seen when the europia is not contaminated with Yt and Sm .
This result was so unusual that both tubes , one containing europium sulphate , and the other Eu , Yt , and Sm sulphate , were arranged so that their two spectra overlapped , when the difference in position was very marked .
It having been found that the addition of lime caused the anomalous line to disappear , it was decided to add lime to pure europia to ascertain its effect .
It did not suppress the Eu line , but caused it to shift towards the red to X 6153 , still further away from the position it occupied in mixtures of Yt , Sm , and Eu ; and its less refrangible companion , shown faint in figs. 1 and 2 , increased to almost equal intensity ( fig. 3 ) .

