331 Substance .
j Mean refraction Specific atio . !
_ ( _ --1 ) _ gravity .
Ice ... ... ... ... ... ... .
309 0*9184 2973 Water at 0 ?
C ... ... .
0 3330 0-9993 3001 Moreover , as a general rule , those substances that are most affected in density by heat are the most sensitive .
6 .
No sudden change of sensitiveness occurs near the boilingpoint ; at least this is true in respect to bisulphide of carbon , ether , and methylic alcohol .
XVIII .
" On the Adaptation of the Human Eye to varying Distances .
" By CHARLES ARcHER , Esq. , Surgeon , Bengal Army .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES , Sec , R.S. Received June 17 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The following is a summary of the author 's views on the question : 1 .
The eye is adapted to varying distances principally by an alteration in the fibrous arrangement of the lens itself .
Moreover , that when the lens is removed after an operation for cataract , the power of adaptation is nearly lost , and can only be exerted within very confined distances .
2 .
That the purpose of focalizing light at short distances is doubtless assisted , as suggested by Bowman , by the contractions of the ciliary muscle , in its antero-posterior direction , bringing forward the ciliary processes .
3 .
That as the posterior hemisphere of the capsule is firmly united to the hyaloid membrane , this portion must always remain quiescent , and therefore the antero-posterior contractions of the ciliary muscle must be very limited as regards the lens .
4 .
That the ciliary muscle , being placed around the eye , and its fibres being of a somewhat plexiform character , the contractions of the muscle will relax those yielding portions of the eye placed within its circumference .
5 .
That the relaxations of the ciliary processes will deprive the capsule of its firm support .
It will be pressed forward by the lens , 332 which will meet with no further resistance to the expansion of its short axis .
6 .
That the lens itself , as microscopically described by Bowman and Kolliker , is admirably adapted to the varying changes which take place in the capsule .
7 .
That the posterior capsule being firmly united to the hyaloid membrane , the alteration in the diameters of the cavity of the capsule must take place from the periphery of the lens to its centre , and from behind forwards , but not from before backwards , on account of the close union of the posterior capsule to the hyaloid membrane .
8 .
That to allow such alteration to take place without endangering the achromatism of the lens , the alterations in the plane of its long diameter must be synchronous with the alterations in the plane of its short diameter .
To allow of this , the margin of the lens is free in the canal of Petit ; were it not the case , chromatic aberration would result .
9 .
That the elasticity of the capsule of the lens and the ciliary muscle are antagonistic ; that on the ciliary muscle becoming relaxed , the capsule of the lens is free to exert that elasticity .
10 .
That , by the pressure exerted by the anterior hemisphere of the capsule by means of the polygonal cells of Virchow on the anterior face of the lens , the organ is able to fulfil all the requirements for adapting it to receive focalized light from long distances .
11 .
That the polygonal cells of Virchow are placed on the posterior surface of the anterior hemisphere of the capsule with the view before mentioned , and that they are arranged with their long diameters in an antero-posterior direction , that pressure may not injure their transparency , which would be the case if placed laterally .
12 .
That these cells are not found in other parts of the capsule .
13 .
That the fibres of the lens are serrated for the purpose of uniting either to other , so as to allow them greater freedom of motion without altering their ultimate relations to each other .
14 .
That the ciliary muscle is very highly endowed with nervous matter to supply all these varying requirements .
15 .
By the above postulates , all the modern discoveries in the microscopical anatomy of the eye receive a distinct expression of their individual functions , and , by so doing , adapt the organ of vision to the acknowledged laws of light .

