Observations Concerning Cochineel , accompanied with some suggestions for finding out and preparing such like substances out of other Vegetables .
IT is generally believed , that the Cochineel comes out of a fruit called the Prickle-pear , bearing a leaf of a slimy nature , and a fruit bloud-red and full of Seeds , which give a Dye almost like to Brasiletto wood , that will perish in a few days by the Fire : But the Insect engendered of this fruit or leaves , gives a permanent Tincture , as is generally known .
There grows a Berry ( by report ) both in the Bermudas and New-England , called the Summer-Island-Redweed , which Berry is as red as the Prickle-Peare , giving much the like tincture ; out of which Berry come out first Worms , which afterward turn into Flies somewhat bigger then the Cochineel-Flye , feeding on the same Berry : In which we read , there hath been found a colour no whit inferior to that of the Cochineel-Flye , and as to Medicinal virtue much exceeding it .
It is hereupon offered to consideration and trial , 1 .
Whether this Bermuda-Berry might not grow in England§ 2 Whether out of the Berry of Brasiletto-wood the like insect might not be obtained in respect of colour or tincture§ 3 .
Whether a fading colour , yielded by certain Vegetables , might not be fixed by causing such a Fermentation in the Concrete , as may engender Insects giving the tincture of its original , which will hold in Grain ?
For the obtaining of the last we find the following directions , Whereas Vegetables of Tincture are either Herbs , or Woods , or Berries and other Fruits ; to breed Insects out of Herbs , dry them , ( for so they yield the best tincture ; ) otherwise stamp them , and let them dry , till they will suffer no more juice to run from them , ( this in the Sun or in a proportionable heat : ) or if dried , infuse them with water in a heat for 24 hours ; then vapour away the water till the dissolution be as thick as a Syrup ( but for this use strain them not from their feces ; ) take this Mass , and put it into an Earthen or Woodden-Vessel covered with some Straw or something else of that nature , that it lye not too close , and so proportion the quantity to the Vessel , that the Air may come about and into the Mass ( yet not too much .
) Then set this vessel in a ditch or pit made in the Earth in a shady place , and put about it some wet leaves or some such putrefying rubbish , and over it a board , and on that some straw or the like ; and it will produce first a shelly husky Worm , and then a Fly of the Tincture of the Concrete , but durable and somewhat more advanced .
And as for Berries , stamp and boyle them , evaporating them to the consistence of a Robe , and then use them as the former .
Lastly , for Woods , infuse them in water , being first pulveriz 'd , and boyle out their tincture , and then evaporate also the Water to such a thickness , as the other , and handle them in the like way .
The Flies will play about the sides of the Vessel and the surface of the matter ; which taken are killed in a warm pan or stove , and so dried and kept .

