]\gt ; PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. On the Bodily Tides of Viscous and Spheroids , and on the Ocean Tides upon Yielding Nucleu .
G. H. DARWIN , M.A. , Fellow of Communicated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , M.A. , F. R. Received May 14 , \mdash ; Read May , 1878 .
IN a well-known investigation Sir WILLIAM THOMSON has discussed the problem of the bodily tides of a homogeneous elastic sphere , and has drawn therefrom very important conclusions as to the great rigidity of the earth .
Now it appears improbable that the earth ] be perfectly elastic ; for the contortions of geological strata show that the matter constituting the earth is somewhat plastic , at least near the surface .
We know also that even the most refractory 1netals can be made to flow under the action of sufficiently great forces .
Although Sir W. THOMSON'S inves igation has gone far to overthrow the old idea of a semi-fluid interior to the earth , yet geologists are so strongly impressed by the fact that enormous masses of rock are being , and have been , poured out of vents in the earth 's surface , that the belief is not yet extinct that we live on a thin shell over a sea of molten lava .
Under these circumstances it appears to be of interest to investigate the consequences which would arise from the supposition that the matter constituting the earth is of a viscous or imperfectly elastic nature ; for if the interior constituted in this way , then the solid crust , unless very thick , cannot possess rigidity enough to repress the tidal surgings , and these hypotheses must give results fairly conformable to the reality .
The hypothesis of imperfect elasticity will be prin* Sir WILLIAM states that M. had treated the subject at an earlier date , but in an entirely different manner .
I am not aware , however , that M. had fully discussed the subject in its physical aspect .
cipally interesting as showin how far Sir W. TIIOMSON'S results are modified by the supposition that the elasticity breaks down under continued stress .
In this paper , then , I follow out these hypotheses , and it will be seen that the results are fully as hostile to the idea of any great mobility of the interior of the earth as is that of Sir W. THOMSON .
The only terrestrial evidence of the existence of a bodily tide in the earth would be that the ocean tides would be less in height than is indicated by theory .
The subject of this paper is therefore connected with the theory of the ocean tides .
In the first part the equilibrium tide-theory is applied to estimate the reduction and alteration of phase of ocean tides as due to bodily tides , but that theory is acknowledged on all hands to be quite fallacious in its explanation of tides of short period .
In the second part of this paper , therefore , I have considered the dynamical theory of tides in an .
equatolial canal running round a tidally-distorted nucleus , and the results.are almost the same as those given by the equilibrium theory .
The first two sections of the paper are occupied with the adaptation of Sir W. THOMSON'S to the present hypotheses ; as , of course , it was impossible to reproduce the whole of his argument , I fear that the investigation will only be intelligible to those who are either already acquainted with that work , or who are willing to accept my ions therefrom as established .
As some readers may like to know the results of this inquiry without going into the mathematics by which they are established , I have given in Part III .
a summary of the whole , and as far as possible relegated to that part of the paper the comments and conclusions to be drawn .
I have tried , however , to give so much explanation in the body of the paper as will make it clear whither the argument is tending .
The case of pure viscosity is considered first , because the analysis is somewhat simpler , and because the results will afterwards admit.of an easy extension to the case of elastico-viscosity .
I. THE BODILY TIDES OF VISCOUS AND ASTICO-VISCOUS SPHEROIDS .
1 .
Analogy between the flow of a viscous body and the of an elastic one .
The general equations of flow of a viscous fluid , when the effects of neglected , are * His paper will be found in Phil. Trans. , 1863 , p. 573 , and SS and 834-846 of THOMSON and ' Natural Philosophy , ' edit .
of 1867 .
SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
( 1 ) where are the rectangular coordinates of a point of the fluid ; are the component velocities parallel to the axes ; is the mean of the three pressures across planes perpendicular to the three axes respectively ; are the component forces acting on the fluid , estimated per unit volume ; is the coefficient of viscosity ; and is the Laplacian operation Besides these we have the equation of continuity Also if are the normal and tangential stresses estimated in the usual way across three planes perpendicular of the axes ( 2 ) Now in an elastic solid , if be the displacements , be the coefficient of dilatation , and that of rigidity , and if S ; the equations of equilibrium are .
Ako are .
Ako are .
Ako are .
Ako are .
Ako are .
Ako are .
Ako ( 3 ) ( 4 ) and have the same forms as in ( 2 ) , with written instead of Therefore if we put , we have , so that ( 3 ) may be written * THOMSON and TAIT'S ' Not .
Phil S 698 , eq. ( i ) and .
, \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. Also \amp ; c. Now if we suppose the elastic solid to be incompressible , so that is infinitely large compared to , then it is clear that the equations of equilibrium of the incompressible elastic solid assume exactly the same form as those of flow of the viscous fluid , merely taking the place of Thus every problem in the equilibrium of an incompressible elastic solid has its counterpart in a problem touching the state of flow of an incompressible viscous fluid , when the effects of inertia are egleoted ; and the solution of the one may be made applicable to the other by merely reading for " " displacements\ldquo ; " " velocities and for the coefficient of " " rigidity\ldquo ; that of\ldquo ; viscosity 2 .
A nfuence of bodily force .
Sir W. THOMSON has solved the following problem:\mdash ; To find the displacement of every point of the substance of an elastic sphere exposed to no surface traction , but deformed infinitesimally by an equilibrating system of forces acting bodily through the interior .
If for " " displacement\ldquo ; we read velocity , and for ' elastic\ldquo ; viscous , we have the corresponding problem with respect to a viscous fluid , and mutatis mutandis the solution is the But we cannot find the tides of a viscous sphere by merely making the equilibratin system of forces equal to the tide-generating influence of the sun or moon , because the substance of the sphere .
must be supposed to have the power of gravitation .
For suppose that at any tiroe the equation to the free surface of the earth ( as the viscous sphere may be called for brevity ) is , where is a surface harmonic .
Then the matter , positive or negative , filling the space represented by exercises an attraction on every point of the interior ; and this attraction , together with that of a homogeneous sphere of radius , must be added to the tide-generating influence to form the whole force in the interior of the sphere .
Also it is a spheroid , and no longer a true sphere with which we have to deal .
If , however , we cut a true phere of radius out of the spheroid ( leaving out ) , then by a proper choice of surface actions , the tidal problem may be reduced to finding the state of flow in a true sphere under the action of ( i ) an external tide-generating influence , ( u ) the attraction of the SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
true sphere , and of the positive and negative matter filling the space , but ( iii ) subject to certain surface forces .
Since ( i ) and ( u ) together constitute a bodily force , the problem only differs from that of Sir W. THOMSON the fact that there are forces acting on the surface of the sphere .
Now as we are only going to consider small deviations from sphericity , these surface actions will be of small amount , and an approximation will be permissible .
It is clear that rigorously there is tangential action between the layer of mattel and the true sphere , but by the part of the action is normal , and is simply the weight ( either positive or negative ) of the matter which lies above or below ny point on the surface of the true sphere .
Thus , in order to reduce the earth to sphericity , } appropriate surface action is a normal traction equal to , where is gravity at the surface , and is the mass per unit volume of the matter constituting the earth .
In order to show what alteration this normal surface traction will make in Sir W. THOMSON'S solution , I must now give a short account of his method of attacking the problem .
He first that , where there is a potential function , the solution of the problem may be subdivided , and that the complete values of consist of the sums of two parts which to be found in different ways .
The first part consists of any values of , which satisfy the equations throughout the sphere , without reference to surface conditions , As far as regal.ds the second part , the bodily force is deemed to be nonexistent and is replaced by certain surface actions , so calculated as mteract the surface actions which correspond to the values of found in the first part of the solution .
Thus the first part satisfies the condition that there is a bodily force , and the second adds the condition that the surface forces are zero .
The first part of the solution is easily found , and for the second part Sir W. THOMSON discusses the case of an elastic sphere under the action of any surface tractions , but without any bodily force acting on it .
The component surface parallel to the three axes , in this problem , are supposed to be expanded in a series of urface harmonics ; and the harmonic terms of any order are shown to have an effect on the displacements independent of those of every other order .
Thus it is only necessary to consider the typical component surface tractions of the order He proves that ( for an incompressible elastic solid for which is infinite ) this one surface traction produces a displacement throughout the sphere given by * I shall consider some of the effects of this tangential action in a future paper , viz. : " " Problems connected with the Tides of a Viscous Spheroid read before the Royal Society on December THOMSON and TAIT'S ' Not .
Phil 1867 , S 737 , equation ) ) .
with symmetrical expressions for and ; where and auxiliary functions defined by . . . .
( 6 ) In the case considered by Sir W. THOMSON of an elastic sphere deformed by bodily stress and subject to no surface action , we have to substitute in ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) only those surface actions which are equal and opposite to the surface forces corresponding to the first part of the solution ; but in the case which we now wish to consider , we must add to these latter the components of the normal traction , and besides must include in the bodily force both the external disturbing force , and the attraction of the matter of the spheroid on itself .
Now from the forms of ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) it is obvious that the tractions which correspond to the first part of the solution , the tractiou produce quite independent effects , and therefore we need only add to the complete solution of Sir W. THOMSON'S problem of the elastic sphere , the terms which arise from the normal traction Finally we must pass from the elastic problem to the viscous one , by reading for and velocities for displacements .
I proceed then to find the state of internal flow in the viscous sphere , which results from a normal traction at every point of the surface of the sphere , given by the surface harmonic In order to use the formulae ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) , it is first necessary to express the component lactions as surface harmonics .
Now if be a solid harmonic , So that Therefore The quantities within the brackets being independent of ? .
, being surface harmonics of orders and respectively , we have expressed as the sum of two surface harmonics , where * Where the solid is incompressible , this surface tractiom is normal to the sphere at every point , provided that the potential of the bodily force is expressible in a series of solid harmonics .
SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON YIELDING NUCLEUS .
Similarly may be expressed as and , where the 's and 's only differ from the 's in having written for We have now to form the auxiliary functions corresponding to and corresponding to Then by the formulae ( 6 ) Thus Then by ( 5 ) we form corresponding to , and also to , and add them together .
The final result is that a normal traction gives , ( 7 ) and symmetrical expressions for and are here Wl.itten for to show that this is only a partial solution , and is written for to show that it corresponds to the viscous problem .
If we now put , we get the state of flow of the fluid due to the transmitted pressure of the deficiencies and excesses of matter below and above the true spherical surface .
This constitutes the solution as far as it depends on ( iii ) .
There remain the parts dependent on ( i ) and ( ii ) , which may for the present be classified together ; and for this part Sir W. THOMSON'S solution is directly applicable .
The state of internal strain of an elastic sphere , subject to no surface action , but under the influence of a bodily force of which the potential is , may be at once adapted to give the state of flow of a viscous sphere under like conditions .
The solution is\mdash ; .
( 8 ) with symmetrical expressions for and I will first consider ( ii ) ; i. e. , the matter of the earth is now supposed to possess the power of gravitation .
The gravitatio potential of the spheroid ( taking only a typical term of at a point in the interior , estimated per unit volume , is according to the usual formula in the theory of the potential .
Now the first term , being symmetrical rolind the centre of the sphere , can clearly cause no flow in the incompressible viscous sphere .
We are therefore left with Now if be substituted for in ( 8 ) , and if the resulting expression be compared with ( 7 ) when is written for , it will be seen that Thus And if ( 9 ) with symmetrical expressions for Equation ( 9 ) then embodies the solution as far as it depends on ( ii ) and ( iu ) .
And since ( 9 ) is the same as ( 8 ) when - is written for , we may include the effects of mutual gravitation in producing a state of flow in the viscous sphere , by adopting THOMSON'S solution ( 8 ) , and taking instead of the true potential of the layer * Not .
Phil S 884 , equation ( 8 ) when is infinite compared with , and written for , and replaces The case of S 815 in THOMSON and TAIT'S ' Not .
Phil. ' is a special case of this .
SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
of matter times that potential , and by adding to it the external disturbing potential .
We have now learnt how to include the surface action in the potential ; and if be the potential of the external disturbing influence , the effective potential per unit volume at a point within the sphere , now free of surface action and of mutual gravitation , is suppose .
The complete solution of our problem is then found by writing in place of in solution ( 8 ) In order however to apply the solution to the case of the earth , it will be convenient to use polar coordinates .
For this purpose , write for , and let / be the radius vector ; the co]atitude ; the longitude .
Let be the velocities radially , and along and perpendicular to the meridian respectively .
Then the expressions for will be precisely the same as those for in ( 8 ) , save for we must put for ; for Then after some reductions we have ( 10 ) where .
These equations for giye us the state of intelnal flow corresponding to the external disturbing potential , including the effects of the mutual gravitation of the matter constituting the spheroid .
*The introduction of the effects of gravitation may be also carried out synthetically , as is done by Sir W. THOMSON ( S840 , ' Not .
Phil ; but the effects of the of tloe tide-wave render this method somewhat artificial , and I prefer to exhibit the proof in the manner here given .
Conversely , tlJe elastic 'probleml may be solved as in the text .
There seems to be a misprint as to the signs of the @ 's in the second and third of equations ( 13 ) of S 834 of the 'Nat .
Phil. ' ( 1867 ) .
When this is corrected and admit of reduction to tolel .
simple forms .
It appears to me also that the differentiation of in ( 15 ) is incorrcct ; and this falsifics th argument in three following .
The correction is not , however , in any way important .
3 .
The form of the free surface at any time .
If be the surface value of , then Hence after a short interval of time @t , the equation to the bounding surface of the spheroid becomes ; but during this same interval , has become , whence or ( 11 ) This differential equation gives the manner in which the surface changes , under the influence of the external potential If be not a function of the time , and if be the value of when ( 12 ) When is infinite ( 13 ) and there is no further state of flow , for the fluid has assumed the form which it would have done if it had not been viscous .
This result is of course in accordance with the equilibrium theory of tides .
If be zero , the equation shows how the inequalities on the surface of a viscous globe would gradually subside under the influence of simple gravity .
We see how much more slowly the change takes place if be large ; that is to say , inequalities of small extent die out much more slowly than wide-spread inequalities .
Is it not possible that this solution may throw some light on the laws of geological subsidence and upheaval 4 .
Digression on the djustments of the earth to a form of equilibrium .
In a former paper I had occasion to refer to some points touching the precession of a viscous spheroid , to consider its rate of adjustment to a new form of equilibrium , *I write " " for " " to the power of SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
when its axis of rotation had come to depart from its axis of symmetry .
* I propose then to discuss the subject shortly , and to establish the law which was there assumed .
Suppose that the earth is rotating with an angular velocity about the axis of but that at the insta , nt at which we commence our consideration the axis of symmetry is inclined to the axis of at an angle in the plane of and that at that instant the equation to the free surface is where is the ratio of centrifugal force at the equator to pure gravity , and therefore equal to Then putting in ( 12 ) , and dropping the suffixes of .
We may conoeive the earth to be at rest , if we apply a potential so that By ( 12 ) we have Then , substituting for and , and putting Now .
refore the Cartesian equation to the spheroid at the time is , or * ' ' On the Influence of Geological Changes on the Earth 's Axis of Rotation Phil. Tralls .
, Vol. 167 , Part I. , sec. 5 .
MR. DARWIN ON THE BODILY TIDES OF VISCOUS AND SEMI-ELASTIC acos a xz Let be the inclination of the principal axis at this time to the axis of , then If be small , as it was in the case I considered in my former paper , then and Therefore the velocity of approach of the principal axis to the axis of rotation yaries as the angle between them , which is the law assumed .
Also , so ( the of my former paper ) varies inversely as the coefficient of viscosity , \mdash ; as was also assumed .
5 .
Bodily tides in viscous earth .
The only case of interest in which of equation ( 11 ) is a function of the time , is where it is a surface harmonic of the second order , and is periodic in time ; for this will give the solution of the tidal problem .
Since , moreover , we are only interested in the case where the motion has attained a ntly periodic character , the exponential terms in the solution of ( 11 ) may be set aside .
Let , and in accordance with THOMSON'S notation , let , and ; and therefore Then putting in ( 11 ) , and omitting the suffix of for brevity , we have ( 14 ) lt is evident must be of the form A , and therefore certain cases the foroes do not form a rigorously equilibra{ing system , but there is a very small couple tending to turn the earth .
The effects of this ] anced couple , which varies as the square of , will be considered in a succeeding paper on the " " Precession of a Viscous Spheroid ( Read before .
Royal Society , Decomber 19th , 1878 .
) 'Nat .
Phil S 840 , eq. ( 27 ) .
SPHIBROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
or if we put .
Hence , and Therefore the solution.of ( 14 ) is , oos ( 15 ) Where But if the globe were a perfeot fluid , and if the equilibrium theory of tides were true , we should have by ( 13 ) , , Thus we see that the tides of the viscous sphere are to the equilibrium tides of a fluid sphere as : 1 , and that there is a retardation in time of A parallel investigation will be applicable to the general case where the disturbing potential is ; and the same solution will be to hold save that we now have and that in place of we have 6 .
Dirninution of ocean iides on equitibrium theory .
Suppose now that tbere is a shallow ocean on the viscous nucleus , and let us find the effects on the ocean tides of the motion of the nucleus according to the equilibriurn theory , neglecting the gravitation of the water .
The potential at a point outside the nucleus is and if this be put equal to a constant , we get the form which the ocean must assume .
Let be the equation to the surface of the ocean .
Then substituting for in the potential , and neglecting in the small terms , and equating the whole to a constant , we find , or .
But the rise and fall of the tide relative to the nucleus is given by , and ( 17 ) Now if the nucleus had been rigid , the rise and fall would have been given by suppose .
Therefore . . . . .
( 18 ) Hence the apparent tides on the yielding nucleus are equal to the tides on a rigid nucleus reduced in the proportion : 1 ; and since they are retarded by As is necessarily less than this is to an acceleration of the time of high water equal to .
It is , however , worthy of notice this is only an acceleration of phase relatively to the nucleus , and there is an absolute retaldation of phase equal to arc-tan 7 .
and tides .
Let the axis of be the earth 's axis of rotation , and the plane of be fixed in the earth ; let be the moon 's distance , and its mass .
Suppose the moon to move in the equator with an angular velocity relatively to the earth , and let the moon 's terrestrial longitude , measured from the plane of , at the time be Then at the time , the gravitation potential of the tide generating force , estimated per unit volume of the earth 's mass is which is equal to The first term of this expression is independent of the time , and therefore produces an effect on the viscous earth , which will have died out when the motion has become steady ; its only effect is slightly to increase the ellipticity of the earth 's surface .
SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
11- ) The two latter terms give rise to two tides , in one of which ( according to previous notation ) and in the second of which .
Now , which depends on the frequency of the tide generating potential , will clearly be the same for both these tides ; and therefore they will each be equal to the corl'esponding tides of a fluid spheroid , reduced by the same amount and subject to the same retardation .
They may therefore be recompounded into a single tide ; and since will here be equal to 2 , it follows that the retardation of the bodily semidiurnal tide is , where .
Also the height of the tide is less than the corresponding equilibrium tide of a fluid spheroid in the proportion of to unity .
Similarly by section ( 6 ) the height of the ocean tide on the ] ding nucleus is given by the corresponding tide on a rigid nucleus multiplied by , and there is an acceleration of relative high water equal to \mdash ; The case of the fortnightly tide is somewhat simpler .
If be the moon 's angular velocity , and I the inclination of the plane of the orbit to the earth 's equator , then the part of the tide generating potential , on the fortnightly tide depends , is \mdash ; and we see at once by sections ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) that .
The bodily tide is the tide of a fluid spheroid multiplied by ; the reduction of ocean tide is given by ; and there is a time-acceleration of relative high water of \mdash ; or \mdash ; of a week .
In order to make the meaning of the previous analytical results clearer , I have formed the following numerical tables , to show the effects of this hypothesis on the semidiurnal and fortnightly tides .
The coefficient of viscosity is usually expressed in gravitation units of force so that the formula for becomes , .
In the tables is expressed in the centimetre-gramme-second system , and in gravitation mits of force ; is taken as , and as .
and the angular velocity of the moon relatively to the earth as radians per second .
With these data I find .
As a standard of comparison with the coefficients of viscosity given in the tables , I may mention that , according to some rough experiments of my own , the viscosity of British pitch at near the freezing temperature ( 3 Fahr when it is hard and brittle , is about when measured in the same units .
unar Semidiurnal Tide . .
Fortnightly Tide .
I now pass on to a case which is intermediate between the hypothesis of Sir W. THOMSON and that just treated .
8 .
The tides of an elastico-viscous spheroid .
The term elastico-viscous is used to denote that the stresses requisite to maintain the body in a given strained configuration decrease the longer the body is thus constrained , and this is undoubtedly the case with many solids .
In the particular case which is here treated , it is assumed that the stresses diminish in geometrical progression , as the time increases in arithmetical progression .
If , for example , a cubical block of the substance be strained to a given amount by a stress , and maintained in that position , after a time , the shearing stress , is .
SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
The iime measures the rate at which the stress falls off , and is caUed ( I believe by Professor MAXWELL ) " " the modulus of the time of relaxation of rigidity ; \ldquo ; it is the t , ime in which the initial stress has been reduced to or of its initial value .
I do not suppose , however , that any solid conforms exactly to this law ; but I conceive that it is often useful in physical problems to discuss an ideal case , which presents a sufficiently marked likeness to the reality , where we are unable to determine exactly what that reality ma .
be .
Mr. J. G. BUTCHER has found the equations of motion of such an ideal substance from the consideration that the elasticity of groups of inolecules is continually breaking down , and that the groups rearrange afterwards .
These considerations lead him to the results for the stresses across rectangular planes at any point in the interior , viz. ( with the notation of S ) and similar expressions for ; where the coefficient of dilatation , that of .
rigidity , S the dilatation , and , the components of flow .
These expressions are clearly in accordance with the above definition of elasticoviscosity , for .
If the expressions for , \amp ; c. , be substituted in the equations of equilibrium of the elementary parallelopiped , it is found by aid of the equation of , that when inertia is neglected and two similar equations .
By the same reasoning as in S 1 , we may put , S , and the equations become Then supposing the substance to be incompressible , so that is infinitely large compared to , and therefore is umity , the equations become and two similar equations .
* Proc. Lond. Math. Soc. , Dec. 14 , 1876 , p. 107-9 .
It seems to me that the hypothesis ought to represent the elastico-viscosity of ice very closely .
Now these equations have exactly the same form as those for the motion of a viscous fluid , save that the coefficient of viscosity is replaced by We may therefore at once pass to the differential equation ( 11 ) ich gives the form of the surface of the spheroid at any time .
Substituting , therefore , in ( 11 ) for , we get This equation admits of solution just in the same way that equation ( 11 ) was solved ; but I shall confine myself to the case of the tidal problem , where and .
In this special case the equation becomes sin And if we put , and This may be written .
In the solution appropriate to the tidal problem , we may omit the exponential term , and assume .
Then if we put .
Whence it follows that , and so that .
Hence the bodily tide of the elastico-viscous spheroid is equal to the equilibrium of a fluid spheroid multiplied by , and high tide is retarded by The formula for may be expressed in a somewhat more convenient form ; we have , and therefore SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
But is the coefficient of viscosity , and in treating the tides of the purely viscous spheroid we put \mdash ; coefficient of viscosity ; therefore adopting the same notation here , we have If the modulus of re]axation be zero , whilst the coefficient of rigidity becomes infinite , but finite , the substance is purely viscous , and we have and , so that the solution reduces to the case already considered .
If be infinite , the substance is purely elastic , and we have and since , therefore .
But according to THOMSON'S , so that , which is the solution of THOMSON'S problem of the purely elastic spheroid .
The present solution embraces , therefore , both the case considered by him , and that of the viscous spheroid .
9 .
Ocean tides on an elastico-viscous nucleus .
If be the equation to the ocean spheroid , we have , as in sec. ( 6 ) , that the height of tide relatively to the nucleus is given by and substituting the present value of .
If the nucleus had been rigid the rise and fall would have been given by , where ; therefore on the yielding nucleus it is given by .
* ' Not .
Phil S 840 .
Hence the apparent tides on the yielding nucleus are equal to the corresponding tides on a rigid nucleus reduced in the proportion of to unity , and there is an acceleration of the time of high water equal to .
As these analytical results present no clear meaning to the mind , I have compiled the following tables .
I take the two cases considered by Sir W. THOMSON , where the spheroid has the rigidity of glass , and that of iron , and I work out the results for various times of relaxation of rigidity , for the semidiurnal and htly tides .
The last line in each division of each table is TmOMSON'S result .
I may remind the reader that the modulus of relaxation of rigidity is the time in which the stress requisite to retain the body in its strained configuration falls to 368 of its initial value .
SPHEROID with Rigidity of Glass .
Lunar Semidiurnal Tide .
tnightly Tide .
SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
21 SPHEROID with Rigidity of Iron .
Lunar Semidiurnal Tide .
Fortnightly Tide .
Fluid 0 ' Elastic 000 3 10 10 .
The influence of In establishing these results inertia has been neglected , and I will now show that this neglect is not such as to materially vitiate my results .
Suppose that the spheroid is constrained to execute such a vibration as it would do if it were a perfect fluid , and if the equilibrium theory of tides were true .
the effective forces which are , according to D'ALEMBERT'S principle , the equivalent of inertia , are found by multiplying the acceleration of each particle by its mass .
Inertia may then be safely.neglected if the effective force on that particle which has the greatest amplitude of vibration is small compared with the tide-generating force on it .
In the case of a viscous spheroid , the inertia will have considerably less effect than it would have in the supposed constrained oscillation .
Now suppose we have a tide-generating potential , then , according to the equilibrium theory of tides , the form of the surface is given by ; * In a future paper ( read on December 19th , 1878 ) I shall give an approximate solution of the problem , inclusive of the effects of inertia .
and this function gives the proposed constrained oscillation .
It is clear that it is the particles at the surface which have the widest amplitude of oscillation .
The effective force on a unit element at the surface is .
But the normal disturbing force at the surface is 2 .
Therefore inertia may be neglected if is small compared with , or if is a small fraction .
The tide of the shortest period with which we have to deal is that in which , so that we must consider the magnitude of the fraction .
If were the earth 's true angular velocity , instead of its angular velocity relatively to the moon , then would be the ellipticity of its surface if it were homogeneous .
This ellipticity is , as is well known , .
Jlence the fraction , which is the criterion of the negligeability of inertia , is about If , then , it be considered that this way of looking at the subject certainly exaggerates the influence of inertia , it is clear that the neglect of inertia is not such as to materially vitiate the results given above .
II .
A TIDAL YIELDING OF THE EARTH'S MASS , AND THE CANAL-THEORY OF TIDES .
In the first part of this paper the equilibrium theory has been used for the determination of the reduction of the height of tide , and the alteration of phase , due to bodily tides in the earth .
Sir W. THOMSON remarks , with reference to a supposed elastic yielding of the earth 's body : " " Imperfect as the comparisons between theory and observation as to the actu height of the tides has been hitherto , it is scarcely possible to believe that the height is in reality only two-fifths of what it would be if , as has been universally assumed in tidal theories , the earth were perfectly rigid .
It seems , therefore , nearly certain , with no other evidence than is afforded by the tides , that the tidal effective rigidity of the earth must be greater than that of glass.\ldquo ; * The equilibrium theory is quite fallacious in its explanation of the semidiurnal tide , but Sir W. THOMSON is of opinion that it must give approximately correct results for tides of considerable period .
It is therefore on the observed amount of the fortnightly tide that he places reliance in drawing the above conclusion .
Under these * 'Nat .
Phil S843 .
SpHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
circumstances , a dynamical investigation of the effects of a tidal yielding of the earth on a tide of short period , according to the canal theory , is likely to be interesting .
The following investigation will be applicable either to the case of the earth 's mass yielding through elasticity , plasticity , or viscosity ; it thus embraces Sir W. THOMSON'S hypothesis of elasticity , as well as mine of viscosity and elastico-viscosity .
11 .
Semidiurnal tide in an equatorial on yielding nucleus .
I shall only consider the simple case of the moon moving uniformly in the equator , raising tide waves in a narrow shallow equatorial canal of depth The potential of the tide-generating force , as far as concerns the present inquiry , is , with the old nota.tion , , where .
This force will raise a bodily tide in the earth , whether it be elastic , plastic , or viscous .
Suppose , then , that the greatest range of the bodily tide at the equator is , and that it is retarded after.the passage of the moon over the meridian by an angle .
Then the equation to the bounding surface of the solid earth , at the time , is ; or with former notation The whole potential V , at a point outside the nucleus , is the sum of the potential of the earth 's attraction , and of the potential of the tide-generating force .
Therefore where Sir GEORGE AIRY shows , in his article on " " Tides and Waves\ldquo ; in the ' Encyclopaedia Metropolitana , ' that the motion of the tide-wave in a canal running round the earth is the same as though the canal were straight , and the earth at rest , whilst the disturb- ing body rotates round it .
This simplification will be applicable here also .
As before stated , the canal is supposed to be equatorial , and of depth After the canal has been developed , take the origin of rectangular coordinates in the undisturbed surface of the water , and measure along the canal in the direction of the moon 's motion , and vertically downwards .
We have now to transform the potential V , and the equation to the surface of the solid earth , so as to make them applicable to the supposed development .
If be the velocity of the tide-wave , then ; also the wave length is half the circumference of the earth 's equator , or ; and let Then we have the following transformations :\mdash ; Also in the small terms we may put .
Thus the potential becomes const .
Again , to find the equation to the bottom of the canal , we have to transform the equation If be the ordinate of the bottom of the canal , corresponding to the abscissa this equation becomes after development We now have to find the forced waves in a horizontal shallow canal , under the action of a potential V , whilst the bottom executes a simple harmonic motion .
As the canal is shallow , the motion may be treated in the same way as Professor STOKES has treated the long waves in a shallow canal , of which the bottom is stationary .
In this method it appears that the particles of water , which are at any time in a vertical column , remain so throughout the whole motion .
Suppose , then , that is the abscissa of a vertical line of particles which , when undisturbed , had an abscissa Let be the ordinate of the surface corresponding to the abscissa Let be a neighbouring line of particles , which when undisturbed were distant from PQ a small length Conceive a slice of water cut off by planes through perpendicular to the length of the canal , of which the breadth is .
Then the volume of this slice is Now and .
Hence treating and as small compared with , the volume of the slice is\mdash ; SPHEROIDS , AND ON THII OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
25 But this same slice , in its undisturbed condition , a volume .
Therefore the equation of continuity is Now the hydrodynamical equation of motion is approximately The difference of the pressures on the two sides of the slice PQqp at any depth is ; and this only depends on the difference of the depressions of the wavesurface below the axis of on the two sides of the slice , .
at and .
Thus Substituting then for from the equation of continuity , and observing that is very nearly the same as we have as the equation of wave motion , ' But So that In obtaining the integral of this equation , we may omit the terms which are independent of , because they only indicate free waves , which may be supposed not to exist .
The approximation will also be sufficiently close , if be written for on the right hand side .
Assume , then , that By substitution in the equation of motion we find And as this must hold for all times and places , In the case of such seas as exist in the earth , the tide-wave travels faster than the free-wave , so that is greater than ; and the denominators of A and are positive .
We have then\mdash ; But the present object is to find the motion of the wave-surface relatively to the bottom of the canal , for this will give the tide relatively to the dry land .
Now the height of the wave relatively to the bottom is And Hence reverting to the sphele , and putting for , we get as the equation to the relative spheroid of which the wave-surface in the equatorial canal forms part\mdash ; But according to the equilibrium theory , if V has the same form as above , .\mdash ; and if be the equation to the tidal spheroid , we have , as in Part I. , and the equation to the relative tidal spheroid is Now in either the case of the dynamical theory or of the equilibrium theory , if be put equal to zero , we get the equations to the tidal spheroid on a rigid nucleus .
comparison , then , of the above equations shows at once that both the reduction of tide and the acceleration of phase are the same in one theory as in the other .
But where the SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING one gives high water , the other gives low water .
The result is applicable to any kind of supposed yielding of the earth 's mass ; and in the special case of viscosity , the table of results for the fortnightly tide at the end of Part I. is applicable .
III .
SUIvIMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . .
In S 1 an analogy is shown between problems about the state of strain of incompressible elastic solids , and the flow of incompressible viscous fluids , when inertia is neglected ; so that the solutions of the one class of problems may be made applicable to the other .
Sir W. THOMSON'S problem of bodily tides of an elastic sphere is then adapted so as to give the bodily tides of a viscous spheroid .
The adaptation is rendered somewhat con1plex by the necessity of introducing the effects of the mutual gravitation of the parts of the spheroid .
The solution is only applicable where the disturbing potential is capable of expansion as a series of solid harmonics , and it appears that each harmonic term in the potential then acts as though all the others did not exist ; in consequence of this it is only necessary to consider a typical term in the potential .
In S3 an equation is found which gives the form of the free surface of the roid at any time , under the action of any disturbing potential , which satisfies the of expansibility .
By putting the disturbing potential equal to zero , the law is found which governs the subsidence of inequalities on the surface of the spheroid , under the influence of mutual gravitation alone .
If the form of the surface be expressed as a series of surface harmonics , it appears that any harmonic diminishes in geometrical progression as the time increases in arithmetical progression , and harmonics of higher orders subside much more slowly than those of lower orders .
Common sense , indeed , would tell us that wide-spread inequalities must subside much more quickly wrinEes , but only analysis could give the law connecting the rapidity of the sub- sidence with the magnitude of the inequality .
* * On this Lord RAYLEIGH remarks , that if we consider the problem in two dimensions , and a number of parallel ridges , the distance between which is , then inertia being neglected , the elements ou which the time of subsideuce depends are ( force per unit mass due to weight ) , coefficient of viscosity , and .
Thus the time must have the form The dimensions of , A are respectively ; hence And , so that varies as If we takc the case on the sphere , then when , the er of harmonics , is great , compares with ; so that varies as .
I hope at some future time to try whether it will not be possible to throw some light on the formation of parallel mountain chains and the direction of faults , by means of this equation .
Probably the best way of doing this will be to transform the surface harmonics , which occur here , into BESSEL'S functions .
Tn S4 the rate is considered at which a spheroid would adjust itself to a new form of equilibrium , when its axis of rotation had separated from that of figure ; and the law is established which ] wafassumed in a previous paper .
In S5 I pass to the case where the disturbing potential is a solid harmonic of the second degree , multiplied by a simple time harmonic .
This is the case to be considered for the problem of a tidally distorted spheroid .
A remarkably simple law is found connecting the viscosity , height of tide , and the amount of lagging of tide ; it is shown that if be the speed of the tide , and if varies jointly as the coefficient of viscosity and , then the height of bodily tide is equal to that of the equilibrium tide of a perfectly fluid spheroid multiplied by , and the tide lags by a time equal to It is then shown that in the equilibrium theory the ocean tides on the yielding nucleus will be equal in height to the ocean tides on a rigid nucleus multiplied by , and that there will be an acceleration of the time of high water equal to \mdash ; The tables in S 7 give the results of the ] ication of the preceding theories to the lunar semidiurnal and fortnightly tides for various degrees of viscosity .
A comparison of the numbers in the first ] umns with the viscosity of pitch at near the freezing temperature about found , when it is hard , apparently solid and brittle , shows how enormously stiff the earth must be to resist the tidally ing influence of the moon .
For unless the viscosity were very much larger than that of pitch , the viscous sphere would comport itself sensibly like perfect fluid , and the ocean tides would be quite .
It follows , herefore , no very considerable portion of the interior of the earth can eyen distantly approach the fluid state .
This does not , howeyer , seem to be conclusive against the existence of bodily tides in earth of the kind here considered ; for although ( as remarked by Sir W. THOMSON ) a very great hydrostatic pressure probably has a tendency to impart rigidity to a substance , yet very high temperature which must exist in the earth at a small depth would tend to induce a sort of viscosity\mdash ; at least if we by the behaviour of materials at the earth 's surface .
In S 8 the theory of the tides of an imperfectly elastic spheroid is developed .
The kind of imperfection of elasticity considered is where the forces requisite to maintain the body in any strained configuration diminish in geometrical progression as the time increases in arithmetical progression .
There can be no doubt that all bodies possess an imperfection in their elasticity of this general nature , but the exact law * Phil. Trans. , Vol. 167 , Part I. , sec. 5 of my paper .
SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
29 here assumed has not , as far as I am aware , any experimental justification ; its adoption was rather due to mathematical necessities than to any other reason .
It would , of course , have been much more interesting if it had been possible to represent more exactly the properties of solid matter .
One of the most important of these is that form of resistance to relative displacement , to which the term " " plasticity\ldquo ; has been specially appropriated .
This form of resistance is such that there is a change in the law of resistance to the relative motion of the parts , when the forces tending to cause flo have reached a certain definite intensity .
This idea was founded , I believe , by MM .
TRESCA and ST .
on a long course of experiments on the punching and squeezing of metals and they speak of a solid being reduced to the state of fluidity by stresses of a given magnitude .
This theory introduces a discontinuity , since it has to be determined what parts of the body are reduced to the state of fluidity and what are not .
But apart from this difficulty , there is another one which is almost insuperable , fact that the differential equations of flow are non-linear .
The hope of introducing this form of resistance must abandoned , and the investigation must be confined to the inclusion of those two other continuous laws of resistance to relative displacement\mdash ; elasticity and viscosity .
As above stated , the law of elastico-viscosity assumed in this paper has not got an experimental foundation .
Indeed , KOHLRAUSCH'S experiments on glasst show that the elasticity degrades rapidly at first , and that it tends to attain a final condition , from which it does not seem to vary for an almost indefinite time .
But glass is one of the most perfectly elastic substances known , and , by the light of TRESCA'S experiments , it seems probable that experiments with lead would have brought out very different results .
It seems , moreover , hardly reasonable to that the materials of the earth possess much mechanical similarity with glass .
Notwithstanding cdl these objections , I think , my part , that the results of this investigation of the tides of an ideal elastico-viscous sphere are worthy of attention .
There are two constants which determine the nature of this ideal solid : first , the coefficient of rigidity , at the instant immediately after the body has been placed in its strained configuration ; and secondly , " " the modulus of the time of relaxation rigidity which is the time in which the force requisite to retain the body in its strained configuration has fallen away to 368 of its initial value .
In this section it is shown that the equations of flow of this incompressible elasticoviscous body have the same mathematical form as those for a purely body ; so that the solutions already attained are easily adapted to the new hypothesis .
The only case where the problem is completely worked out , is when the disturbing * ' Sir ement des Corps Solides Mem. des Savants trangers , tom .
xviii .
and tom .
t-/ 5 and p. 137 .
See also ' Comptes Rendus , ' tom .
66 , 68 , and Liouville 's Journ. , serie , xiii .
, p. 379 , and , p. 308 , for papers on this subject .
POGGENDORFF Ann. , vol. 119 , p. 337 .
potential has the form priate to the tidal problem .
The laws of reduction of bodily tide , of its , of the reduction of ocean tide , and of its acceleration , are somewhat more complex than in the case of pure viscosity ; and the reader is referred to S 8 for the statement of those ws .
It is also shown that by appropriate choice of the values of the two constants , the solutions may be either made to give the results of the problem for a purely viscous sphere , or for a purely elastic one .
The tables give the results , for the semidiurnal and fortnightly tides , of this theory for spheroids which have the rigidity of glass or of iron\mdash ; the two cases considered by Sir W. THOMSON .
As it is only possible to judge of the amount of bodily tide by the reduction of the ocean tide , I have not given the heights and retardations of the bodilv tide .
It appears that if the time of relaxation of rigidity is about one quarter of the tidal period , then the reduction of ocean tide does not differ much from what it would be if the spheroid were perfectly , stic .
The amount of tidal acceleration still , however , remains considerable .
A like observation may be made with respect to the acceleration of tide in the case of pure viscosity approaching rigidity : and this leads me to think that one of the most promising ways of detecting such tides in the earth would be by the determination of the periods of maximum and minimum in a tide of long period , sLlch as the fortnightly in a high latitude .
In S 10 it is shown that the effects of inertia , which had been neglected in finding the laws of the tidal movements , cannot be such as to materially affect the accuracy of the results .
The hypothesis of a viscous or imperfectly elastic nature for the matter of the earth would be rendered extremely improbable , if the ellipticity of an equatorial section of the earth were not very small .
An ellipsoidal figure with three unequal axes , even if theoretically oYJe of equilibrium , could not continue to subsist very long , because it is a form of greater potential energy than the oblate spheroidal form , which is also a figure of equilibrium .
Now , according to the results of geodesy , which until very recently have been generally accepted as the most accurate\mdash ; namely , those of Colonel A. there is a difference of 6,378 feet between the major and minor equatorial radii , and the meridian of the major axis is E. of Greenwich .
The heterogeneity of the earth would have to be very great to permit so large a deviation from the oblate spheroidal shape to be either permanent , or to subside with extreme slowness .
But since this paper was read , Colonel CLARKE has published a revision of his results , founded on new data ; he now finds the difference between the equatorial radii to be only 1 , 524 feet , whilst the meridian of the greatest axis is west .
This exhibits a change of meridian of , and a reduction of equatorial part within brackets was added in November , 1878 , in consequence of a conversation with Sir W. THOMSON .
Quoted in and , Not .
Phil. , sec. Phil. Mag. , August , SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
ellipticity to about one quarter of the formerly-received value .
Moreover , the new value of the polar axis is about 1,000 feet larger than the old one .
Colonel CLARKE himself obviously .
the ellipsoidal form of the equator as doubtful .
Thus there is at all events no proved result of geodesy opposed to the present hypothesis concerning the constitution of the earth .
Sir W. THOMSON remarks in a letter to me that " " we may look to filrther geodetic observations and revisals of such calculations as those of Colonel CLARKE for verification or disproof of your viscous theory In the first part of the paper equilibrium theory is used in discussing the question of ocean tides ; in the second part I consider what would be the tides in a shallow equatorial canal running round the equator , if the nucleus yielded ] the same time .
The reasons for undertaking this tion are given at the beginning of that part .
In S 11 it is shown that the height of tide relatively to the nucleus bears the same rtion to the height of tide on a nucleus as in the equilibrium , and the alteration of phase is also the same ; but where the one theory gives high water the other gives low water .
The chief practical result of this paper may be summed up by saying that it is strongly confirmatory of the view that the earth has a very great effective rigidity .
But its chief value is that it forms a necessary chapter to the investigation of the precession of imperfectly elastic spheroids , which will be considered in a future pape I shall there , as I believe , be able to show , by an entirely different argument , that the bodily tides in the earth are probably exceedingly small at the present time .
APPENDIX .
November 7 , 1878 .
On the observed height and of the fortnightly oceanic tide .
In the following note I attempt to carry out the suggestion concerning the nightly tide made in the preceding paper .
The reports of the Tidal Committee of the British Association for 1872 and 1876 contain the reductions of the tidal observations at a number of stations , into a series of harmonic tides , corresponding to the theoretical harmonic constituents of the tidegenerating forces of the moon.and sum .
The tide with which we are here concerned is the fortnightly declinational tide .
The heights of the tides at various times are all expressed in the form , where is half the range of the tide in English feet , the speed " " of the tide , and the retardation of phase , so that is the " " lag\ldquo ; of the tide .
* Read before the Royal Society on December 19th , 1878 .
32 MR. DARWIN ON THE BODILY TIDES OF yISCOuS AND SEMI-ELASTIC With the notation of the present paper for the fortnightly tide , and is the " " mean moon's\ldquo ; longitude from her node .
The following are the results , giving the place of observation , its N. latitude , and the years of observations .
With respect to Breast and Toulon , is reduced to feet from centimetres , so as to be made comparable with the other results:\mdash ; Tn their present form the observations do not appear to present any semblance of law , but when they are rearranged we shall be able to form some idea as to whether they are really quite valueless or not for the point under consideration .
The theoretical expression for the fortnightly tide of an ocean covering the whole earth , according to the equilibrium theory , is Where earth 's radius , the average obliquity of the earth 's axis to the normal to the plane of the lunar orbit during the fortnight in question , the colatitude of the place of observation .
If we take the obliquity of the ecliptic , million feet , we find foot .
So that the fortnightly tide should be expre -ible by ( lat. ) In corrected equilibrium theory the second factor should be .
( lat. ) SPHEROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
where o is a certain definite integral , depending on the distribution of land and water , but which has not yet been evaluated .
The latitude of evanescent fortnightly tide is if zero ; and if we bear in mind that may be negative , it is clear the observations at Cat Island lat. are made too near the critical latitude to be trustworthy for determinin true fortnightly tide .
It is also hardly possible to believe that the observations at Toulon should show a true tide of this denomination , because the Mediterranean must be regarded as a virtually closed sea .
The observations at Cat Island , and at Toulon , will therefore be set aside .
The first process to be applied to the above observations is obyiously to divide each value of by ( lat. ) ; the following are the factors for reducing the values of ( lat. ) These factors will be applied to the values of in the table first given .
The next point to consider is the phase of the tide .
The formula we have given shows that the fortnightly tide consists in an alternate deformation of the ocean level into an oblate and prolate spheroid of revolutio ] ] , when the tide is deemed to be superposed on a true sphere , instead of on an oblate nucleus .
When is zero the spheroid is oblate , and this may be called high-tide ; when it may .
be called low-tide .
It follows , therefore , that N. of lat. high-tide is , and vice-versd ; but S. of this latitude the tide and water agree .
But the formulae in the tidal reductions always refer to ; hence to find the retarda- tion of the tide we must subtract ls from all the 's for places N. of 15'\mdash ; that is to say ( Cat Island being rejected ) for all except Kurrachee .
For Kurrachee , we may observe that any retardation may be regarded as a retardation , which , if negative , is an acceleration of tide .
If be less than this appears to be the more correct light in which to look at it .
Now if we reduce all the observations in the way indicated , so that the fortnightly tide is given by , we find the following results:\mdash ; We will consider first .
From these twelve values we find , with a probable error The value of is almost exactly that indicated by theory , but the very large probable error renders the result so uncertain , that it oan only be asserted that the do not disprove a diminution of fortnightly tide .
With to phase , it will be observed that there are eight cases of accelerated tide to four of rded .
Two of the retarded tides refer to Hartlepool , and concerning this station Sir W. THOMSON says in the report : " " There is scarcely sufficient agreement between the results deduced from the -period tides to be satisfactory , although the of some are within reasonable limits It may be remarked , in passing , that Cat Island giyes a retarded tide , aIJd Toulon an accelerated one .
If we treat these alterations of phase in the same way as was treated , we find a mean acceleration of phase of , but with a .
several times larger than the result itself .
But , in fact , with so few and such irregular observations the method of least squares is useless .
The cases of retarded phase certainly show considerably more irregularity than those of accelerated phase .
If we take the mean of the cases with accelerated phase , we shall find an acceleration of , which corresponds in time to an acceleration of 1 day 20 hours .
Now three out of four years of observations show an accelerated tide at Liverpool ; all three years show an acceleration at Kurrachee ; the Hartlepool observations are not of very much value ; while the single year of acceleration at Breast may be set off against the single year of retardation at .
If then we ask ourselves whether acceleration or retardation is the more probable , I think it must be answered in favour of acceleration ; and if so there seem to be some indications of a viscous yielding of the earth 's mass .
It must be admitted , however , that the evidence is exceedingly uncertain .
It does not seem to be noticed in the tidal reports , that amongst the " " Helmholtz compound shallow-water tides\ldquo ; there will be found everal which have the same period , or very nearly the same period , as the true fortnightly declinational tide .
If ROIDS , AND ON THE OCEAN TIDES UPON A YIELDING NUCLEUS .
we write ( as in the report ) for earth 's rotaton and moon 's mean motion , then we shall find the following speeds will combine so as to give shallow-water tides indistinguishable from the true fortnightly tide , namely , and , also and ; and besides there are four combinations of the elliptic tides which give the same period of compound tide , if we neglect the motion of the moon 's perigee .
It therefore seems quite possible that in certain stations the true fortnightly tide may be masked , or have its phase largely affected by these compound tides , and this is , perhaps , the explanation of the great irregularity in the phases .
A series of observations in some oceanic island near the Equator , or better still north or would be of innmense value to decide this point .

