A new Eudiometer , accompanied with Experiments , elucidating its Application .
By William Hasledine Pepys , Esq. Communicated by Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 4 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 247 .
] After some preliminary observations upon the important part that atmospheric air performs in numerous processes of nature and art , and upon the variety of other gaseous bodies now known , Mr. Pepys traces cursorily the progress of eudiometry from Hales , who first observed a contraction upon the admixture of atmospheric air with an air that he had obtained from spirit of nitre and pyrites .
The cause of this contraction , and the nature of the nitrous gas that occasioned it , were more distinctly discovered by Dr. Priestley , who also pointed out the use to which it might be applied for ascertaining the purity of air ; and he employed for that purpose a graduated tube , which he denominated an eudiometer .
Phosphorus , and the liquid sulphurets , were afterwards substituted for nitrous gas ; but these being found tardy in their operation , or if accelerated by heat fallacious in their results , Mr. Davy proposed the solutions of sulphate , or muriate of iron impregnated with nitrous gas , as sufficiently sudden in their action , and more uniformly free from contamination by other gases .
Much , however , in Mr. Pepys 's estimation , remained to be done in the mechanical part of the apparatus , and in the course of various experiments on these subjects , that it might be rendered more commodious in its application , and capable of giving correct results with the utmost minuteness .
The instruments which he proposes consist of two tubes , one larger and one smaller , with a bottle of elastic gum to each , and a glass cylinder , or cistern , of the same length as the tubes .
The larger of the tubes , containing one cubic inch , is the principal measure , and is divided into hundredths ; the smaller is intended to measure fractional parts ; and in this each of the former divisions is divided into ten parts , or thousandths of the cubic inch .
One of the bottles of elastic gum has attached to it a tube , which serves as a perforated stopper to the larger measure , through which any liquid to be applied to the gas under examination may be forcibly injected .
When the full contraction has taken place , the measure is immersed in the cistern , filled with mercury or with water , according to circumstances , and the contraction noted .
But if the surface is found not to correspond with a division of the principal measure , the smaller tube , which slides through a cork in the bottom of the cistern , is to be passed up till its extremity ( which is open ) reaches the gas contained , and the fractional part is then withdrawn by means of its elastic bottle , and measured with the greatest precision .
Mr. Pepys next proceeds to an account of various gases , of which he tried the purity by meeans of this apparatus , as nitrous gas , containing -rTof impurity , oxygen gas r- , ; atmospheric air , of which ^Ty were absorbed ; carbonic gas , which left.-1+ , and sulphuretted hydrogen r , W of impurity .
In the analysis of compound gases also , he imagines it will be found peculiarly useful .
He recommends using the solutions hot , which facilitates chemical union , but prevents the absorption of carbonic and other gases by the mere water of solution , which might otherwise take place .
In order to avoid the expansion that would be occasioned by handling the measure , Mr. Pepys employs a pair of forceps , having circular extremities lined with cloth , for grasping the tube .
The elastic gum , he observes , is so little acted upon by chemical agents , that a great variety of them may be employed , and may with facility be used at any temperature .

