OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Michel Chasles was born at Epernon , in the department of Eure-et-Loire , on the 15 th of November , 1793 .
He began his education at the Lycee Imperiale , and even in childhood showed a decided taste for geometry , and was in the habit of communicating to the pupils of other schools the problems given him by his teachers , obtaining their problems in exchange .
In the year 1812 he began his studies at the ficole Poly technique .
In 1814 he assisted with his fellow-students in the defence of Paiis , and in that same year passed the engineering examination .
After considerable hesitation he decided to accept the appointment as officer of engineers to which he was now entitled ; but just as he was about to enter the service he was induced to surrender the appointment in favour of a friend , who was next on the list to the successful candidates , and to whom it was a great object .
He spent a short time with his mother at Chartres , and then resumed his studies at the Ecole Polytechnique , When , in 1814 , all the students of the tcole Polytechnique were abruptly dismissed , Chasles gave hospitality in his home at Chartres to his brilliant schoolfellow at the Lycee Imperiale , Gaetan Giordini , who through his influence had been induced to study geometry , and who had obtained the first prize at the Concours General over the head of Chasles himself , and had afterwards obtained the first place in the ficole Polytechnique , On finally quitting the Ecole Polytechnique Chasles spent about ten years in retirement at Chartres , devoting himself to geometry .
In 1837 he published the first edition of his great work , " Aper^u His-torique sir l'Origine et le Developpement des Methodes en Geometry , which was characterised by De Morgan as a work of great importance in the historical point of view , and described in the following words by M. Bertrand : " L'admirable ' Aper^u Historique , ' qui sous ce titre plus que modest , restera l'ceuvre la plus savante , la plus profonde , et la plus originale qu'ait jamais inspiree l'histoire de la science .
In 1841 Chasles became Professeur de Machines et de Geod^sie at the ficole Polyteclmique , which appointment he held for ten years , when he resigned it in consequence of some radical alterations which were being made , and of which he entirely disapproved .
In 1846 he was appointed to a new chair of Modern Geometry at the Faculte des Sciences , which had been established in consequence of the strong recommendation of Poinsot , and for twenty-five years Chasles devoted himself assiduously to his duties at the Sorbonne .
The " Traite de Geometry Superieure , " an elaborate and masterly treatise which embodied the substance of a course of lectures given to the Faculte des Sciences , appeared in 1852 .
This book became scarce , but about two months before his death , Chasles had the satisfaction of seeing a second edition of it published , accompanied by his excellent " Discourse d'Inauguration .
" The " Traite de Geometry Superieure " was followed in 1865 by the first volume of his " Traite des Sections Coniques , " being a sequel to the former .
No other volume of this work ever appeared , though much desired by mathematicians .
In 1863 Chasles published his book " Les Trois Livres de Porismes d'Euclide , retablis pour la premiere fois , d'apres la Notice et les Lemmes de Pappus , et conformement au sentiment de R. Simson , sir la Form des Enonces de ces Propositions .
" The publication of this work led to a short controversy with M. P. Breton ( " Question des Porismes\#151 ; notices sir les debats de priorite auxquels a donne lieu l'ouvrage de M. Chasles sir les porismes d'Euclide , " Paris , 1865 ; and a second part , Paris , 1866 ) .
M. Chasles comments on these in his " Rapport .
" In 1851 Chasles was elected a member of the French Academy , of which he had been a corresponding member since 1839 .
In 1854 he became a foreign member of the Royal Society , and in 1865 he received the Copley medal , which was given to him in acknowledgment of his historical and original Researches in Pure Geometry .
He was the first , and for some years the only , foreign member of the London Mathematical Society .
He was also a member of the Cambridge Philosophical Society .
Chasles continued his labours in the cause of science without interruption , from the time of his leaving the Lycee Imperiale until he was eighty years of age .
An interval of sixty-eight years separates the first note of the pupil Chasles , which appeared in the " Correspondence sir l'ficole Polytechnique , " from the last memoir he presented to the Academy .
In the " Catalogue of Scientific Papers " will be found the titles of 177 of his papers , and it is computed that the number published since 1873 would probably bring the total to nearly 270 .
The subjects range over curves and surfaces of the second and of any degree , geometry , mechanics ( and attractions ) , history , and astronomy .
His " Rapport " perhaps furnishes the best key to his writings , and at pages 72\#151 ; 126 , 220\#151 ; 280 will be found an account of his own contributions to geometry .
Chasles ' life was a happy and simple one .
He lived quietly and abstemiously , respected and loved by all the scientific friends whom he was in the habit of inviting and entertaining with such true kindness and hospitality .
His brethren of the Institut , as well as the numerous other French and foreign savants , whom he liked so much to collect around him , will not easily forget the cordial and sympathetic reception which they always met with in his hospitable salon , whether in Paris or in his country quarters at Sevres .
Chasles was an active member of the Council of the Societe des Amiss de Prance , and it is well known how diligently and conscientiously he always laboured in finding worthy objects for the charity of this institution , and how generously he frequently supplemented its work by donations from his own purse when the funds of the society did not suffice for its wants .
Pifteen years before his death , when the pupils of the Ecole Polv-technique first conceived the idea of founding the Societe Amicale , they perceived how important it was , in order to succeed in such an undertaking , that they should place it under the guidance of a man beloved and respected by all , and Chasles was requested to act as president .
In spite of his already advanced age , and the necessity he might have urged of repose after his long labours , he accepted the post , and it is well known how zealously he devoted himself to the interests of the society , of which he must always be considered the real founder .
His death took place on the 18th of December , 1880 .

