XV .
" The Lignites and Clays of Bovey Tracey , Devonshire .
" By WILLIAM PENGELLY , Esq. , F.G.S. Communicated by Sir CHARLES LYELL .
Received November 16 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) The village of Bovey Tracey , in Devonshire , is situated on the left bank of the river Bovey , a small tributary of the Teign , about eleven miles south-westerly from Exeter .
A considerable plain stretches away from it , for about nine miles , in a south-easterly direction , and terminates three and a half miles north-west of Torquay .
It appears a lake-like expansion of the valleys of the Bovey and Teign , and is surrounded on all sides by lofty hills of granite and other rocks .
Excavations in various parts of this plain , especially in the northwestern part of it , known as Bovey Heathfield , have disclosed , beneath an accumulation of gravel mixed with clay and sand , a regular series of strata of lignite , clay and sand , well known to geologists as the " Bovey deposit , " whilst the lignite is equally familiar as " Bovey coal .
" The most important of the excavations is that known as the " Coal-pit , " whence lignite is extracted , which is used , in small quantities , at a neighbouring pottery , and also by the poorer cottagers of the immediate neighbourhood .
The deposit has long attracted the attention of both the scientific and commercial world , and many authors have given descriptions and speculations respecting it .
In 1760 the Rev. Dr. Jeremiah Milles sent a paper on it to the Royal Society .
His aim appears to have been to prove the mineral origin of the lignite , in refutation of Professor Hollrnan , of G6ttingen , who had described , and assigned a vegetable origin to , a similar substance found near the city of Munden .
In 1794 and 1796 Dr. Maton described the deposit , and mentioned the existence of a large turf bog , near the pit , in which whole trees were often discovered , but " none of them bearing the least resemblance to Bovey coal .
" In 1797 Mr. Hatchett brought the subject before the Linnean Society , in a paper in which his object seems to have been the refutation of the mineral theory of Dr. Milles , In his ' listory of Exeter , ' published in 1802 , Mr. Brice next gave an account of the deposit , and the state of the lignite workings ; he supposed the basin to have formerly been a stagnant lake or morass into which trees were successively transported from the neighbouring slopes .
The twelfth letter in Parkinson 's ' Organic Remains , ' published in 1804 , appears to have been written by Mr. Scammell , of Bovey Tracey , and is devoted to the lignite ; from it we learn that the coal had been worked upwards of ninety years , and that the trees found in the bog , mentioned by Dr. Maton , were of the fir kind .
Mr. Vancouver , in his 'General View of the Agriculture of the County of Devon , ' published in 1808 , supposes the lignite to have been the product of pine forests which grew where it is found , and that clay and other moveable matter must have been poured over them , in a fluid state , at different periods , from the craggy eminences around .
Mr. Austen , in his ' Memoir on the Geology of the South-east of Devonshire , ' states that the Bovey beds rest on a gravel equivalent to the lowest tertiary deposits , and is thus the first writer who addresses himself to the chronology of the formation .
He makes the overlying gravels post-tertiary , but belonging to the " period prior to the most recent changes of relative level of land and water and of climate .
" Sir H. De la Beche , in his 'Report of Cornwall , Devon , &amp;c. , ' expresses surprise and regret that , excepting the lignite itself , no organic remains have been detected in the deposit , so that we are deprived of any aid by which it may be referred to any particular geological date ; and adds that " if the wood be , as has been supposed , analogous to oak and other existing trees , we should suppose the Bovey beds to have been formed towards the latter part of the supracretaceous period .
" In 1855 , Dr. Hooker read a paper before the Geological Society of London , " On some Small Seed-vessels ( Folliculites minutulus ) from the Bovey Tracey Coal , " which was the first announcement of the discovery of identifiable fossils in the deposit .
Besides the fossil just named , Dr. Hooker described a cone of the Scotch fir , Pinus sylvestris , said to have been found in one of the uppermost beds of lignite , and from it he came to the provisional conclusion that the Bovey beds belong to the Post-Pliocene epoch .
In 1856 , Dr. Croker , of Bovey Tracey , sent to the same Society a paper in which he mentioned the occurrence of large " flabelliform leaves , " together " with tangled masses of vegetable remains in some of the higher beds .
" In 1860 Sir Charles Lyell and Dr. Falconer visited Bovey , and returne 'd with the impression that the formation belonged to the miocene age .
The latter introduced the subject to Miss Burdett Coutts as one which it was eminently desirable to have fully and carefully investigated .
Miss Coutts having soon after visited the district with the author , requested him to undertake an investigation of the deposit , which he accordingly did ; and at once engaged Mr. Keeping , the well-known and experienced fossil collector of the Isle of Wight .
Sections of the deposit at the coal-pit show a series of beds naturally dividing themselves into three parts , namely , l st , or uppermost , a bed of sandy clay , containing large angular and subangular stones , chiefly of Dartmoor derivation , unconformably covering the lower beds .
No stones occur below this .
2nd .
A series of twenty-six beds of lignite , clay and sand , the base of which is a bed of ferruginous quartzose sand , in some places 27 feet thick , in others less than one foot , but which everywhere occurs as a well-marked feature in the pit-sections .
Excepting this bed , sand is almost entirely confined to the uppermost part of the division .
3rd .
A set of forty-five beds of regularly alternating lignite and clay .
The stones by which it is characterized , and its unconformability , show that the uppermost division could not have been formed under the same conditions , nor probably in the same geological period as the two lower series .
This view has been ' confirmed by the identification of certain fossil leaves found in the clays of the uppermost series .
The two lower series are strictly conformable , and dip 12 ?
towards S. 35 ?
W. ( mag .
) .
Five beds , -one of clay and four of lignite , in the second series , and nine , -one of clay and eight of lignite-in the lower , a total of fourteen , have yielded fossils , all of them remains of plants only .
A few only of these beds require particular mention .
The seventh bed is , in many places , a mat of the debris of a coniferous tree , the Sequoia Couttsice , and fronds of ferns , chiefly Pecopteris lignitum .
The seventeenth bed contains a large number of dicotyledonous leaves .
The twenty-fifth is that in which the so-called " flabelliform leaves " of Dr. Croker occur ; they have been decided to be large rhizomes of ferns .
The twenty-sixth , a bed of clay , is richer than any other in the number and variety of its fossils , which consist of dicotyledonous leaves , seeds of various kinds , and debris of Sequoia stems , leaves , fruits , and seeds .
Remains of the last occur , in well-marked specimens , in the fortieth and sixty-third beds ; so that it ranges throughout the formation , both divisions of which , therefore , belong to one organic period .
The forty-sixth bed abounds in the seeds described by Dr. Hooker as Folliculites minutulus , but which Professor Heer has recognized as Carpolithes Kaltennordheimensis .
The lignite has frequently a " charred " appearance , and it is difficult to believe that it has not undergone true combustion in the beds , the ignition being spontaneous .
Coal has been found upwards of 170 feet below the surface of the plain , and there are reasons for believing that the deposit is fully 300 feet in depth .
On the advice of Dr. Falconer , the fossils have been submitted to Professor Heer of Zurich , who has found amongst them 49 species of plants , eight of which were found by himself during a personal investigation of the deposit .
Many of these are entirely new to science , whilst the others are well known as continental representatives of the lower miocene age .
In addition to these , four species have been identified in the uppermost , or gravel division , as belonging to the diluvial period , " that is , a period when the climate of Devonshire was colder than at present .
" The deposit is eminently freshwater , and must have been formed in a lake , the bottom of which is , at present , at least 30 fathoms below the level of ordinary spring tide high water .
It appears probable that the waters of this miocene lake were separated from the ocean by a barrier which crossed the present tidal estuary of the Teign , and over this the surplus waters passed to the sea ; or that they formed a lower outlet in the valley between Newton and Torquay ; the first seems , from the physical characters of the two valleys , to have been the most probable course .
During the investigation a search was made for fossils at the clay-works of Aller , Kingsteignton and Decoy , all near Newton Abbot ; nothing was found except at the last place , where a stem of Sequoia Couttsice was met with , thus showing that the deposit is identical with that at Bovey Heathfield .

