On the Sexual Cells of Millepora plicata .
1887 .
] of the body of the Euphoberia correspond exactly to the condition of the young Julus .
With regard to the double segments of Jnlus , Newport held that each double segment corresponded to two segments originally distinct which had fused together ; subsequent writers have held that each double segment is a single segment which has developed a second pair of legs .
Now considering the double segments with regard to the development as well as to the adult condition , we see that the mesoblastic segmentation is double , so are the tracheal , the nervous , and circulatory systems .
The only part of these double segments which is single is the dorsal plate with its stink glands which arise as invaginations in it ; this dorsal plate being so enlarged as to form a complete ring round the body of the adult .
Looking at the palaeontology , we find that in the Archipolypoda , a family including the Archidesmidre , Buphoberidae and Archijulidae , the dorsal plate did show distinct traces of a division .
Therefore I think that each double segment represents two complete segments , the dorsal plates of which have fused together to make one plate .
III .
" On the Sexual Cells and the early Stages in the Development of Millepora plicata .
" By SYDNEY J. HlCKSON , M.A. Cantab .
, D.Sc .
Lond. , Fellow of Downing College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , See .
R.S. Received November 19 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The investigations were made upon several specimens of Millepora plicata I found growing in abundance on the fringing reefs of Talisse Island , N. Celebes .
The young sexual cells , both male and female , are found in the ectoderm of the ccenosarcal canals , between the dactylozooids and the gastrozooids .
At an early stage they leave the ectoderm , and by perforating the mesoglcea take up a position in the endoderm .
The ova at an early stage become stalked .
The stalk of the ovum , which is simply a modified pseudopodium , serves to keep the ovum attached to the mesogloea .
The stalk may at times be completely withdrawn , and the ovum by amoeboid movements migrate along the lumen of the canal to a more favourable locality , where it becomes again attached to the mesogloea by a stalk .
Before maturation the germinal vesicle disappears , and a spindle-shaped body with longitudinal striee appears , which throws out the first polar globule .
On the Sexual Cells of Millepora plicata .
[ Dec. 8 , A second and larger spindle appears after the first polar globule is thrown out , which in its turn discharges the second polar globule .
The mature ova of M. plicata are very small ( T^o mm- in diameter ) , and contain no yolk globules or granules .
After maturation the ova are impregnated .
The heads of two or three spermatozoa may be seen within a single ovum , the flagella remaining on the surface .
After fertilisation the germinal vesicle is again apparent , and at a later stage it is seen to contain a number of nucleoli .
The germinal vesicle next fragments , the fragments being scattered over that pole of the ovum which previously contained the germinal vesicle , i.e. , the pole nearest to the stalk .
The fragments at a later stage travel towards the middle of the ovum , where they form an equatorial zone .
This equatorial zone of fragments divides into two parties , which travel towards the poles .
The fragments during these movements increase in size and in number , and in the next stage observed they are scattered over the whole ovum .
This stage corresponds with the morula stage of other embryos , the fragments of the original germinal vesicle being the nuclei of its constituent cells .
Yery faint markings in the substance of the embryo indicate the outlines of the cells .
The embryo next assumes the form of a solid blastosphere , in which stage it migrates into the gastrozooid , and its subsequent history is lost by its being discharged most probably by the mouth to the exterior .
No trace of any medusa or medusiform gonophore or sporosac was found either on the dactylozooids or gastrozooids containing ova or embryos .
The young male sexual cells or spermospores are at an early stage distinguished from the young ova by their large nucleus containing a coarse protoplasmic meshwork .
The nucleus fragments and the fragments soon come to occupy the whole spermospore .
The spermospore is matured in the canals , and then migrates into the basal endoderm of the dactylozooids , where its wall disappears , and a colony of young spermoblasts pass into the cavity of the zooid .
These push out the wall of the zooid into the form of sporosacs , which they occupy until they are mature .
The sporosacs do not seem to be formed before the advent of the spermoblasts .
There is no spadix nor any other indication of their being degenerate medusiform gono-phores .
In a very few cases they were found in the gastrozooids .
The origin of the sexual cells in Millepora support the views of the Hertwigs and Weismann that the ectoderm is the original seat of the sexual cells in the Hydrozoa .
1887 .
] On Photometry of the Glow Lamp .
247 The absence of segmentation may probably be accounted for by the migratory habits of the embryo after development has commenced .
The fact that no sperm-morula is formed supports this view .
The evidence before us does not support the view that the ovum of Millepora formerly contained much yolk and has subsequently lost it .
I am inclined to believe that the Hydrocorallin\#174 ; belong to a separate stock of the Hydrozoa , which probably never possessed medusiform gonophores .
Millepora is not related to Hydractinia .
IV .
" On Photometry of the Glow Lamp .
" By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. , and Major-General Festing , R.E. , F.R.S. Received November 21 , 1887 .
In a paper which we read before the Royal Society ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' No. 232 , 1884 ) it was shown when a carbon filament or a platinum wire in vacuo was gradually raised in temperature , that the different rays in the visible and invisible regions of the spectrum followed a law governing their intensity .
In the dark region of the spectrum ( below the red ) if the abscissae to a curve represented watts ( current X potential ) , and the ordinates the intensity of the ray under consideration , the curve so formed was hyperbolic , approaching more nearly to the parabolic form as the red was approached .
In the visible spectrum the parabolic curve was actually reached , the vertices of the parabolas moving along the axis of abscissas ; the shift being greater the more refrangible the rays under consideration .
This implied that until a certain number of watts had been expended the ray was absent .
Further , we had shown in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' for September , 1883 , that when measured by a thermopile , total radiation oc ( watts \#151 ; constant ) .
In the visible radiation of an incandescent filament in a glow lamp we are only dealing , however , with a small portion of the radiation , and therefore could not expect it to follow such a simple law as that which governs total radiation .
It appeared probable , however , that as the intensity of any individual ray in this part of the spectrum increased parabolieally , the sum of all the visible rays ought also to follow very closely the same form of curve , the vertex of such parabola lying at some point in the axis of absciss\#174 ; between the vertices of the parabolas of the extreme visible rays .
It likewise appeared probable that when the rays of extreme refrangibility were absent or in defect , as is the case when the filament is red hot , the parabola would fail to represent the intensity of visible radiation .
In the communication we have already referred to one example of

