XII .
" On the Constitution and Properties of Ozone .
" By TIIOMAS ANDREWS , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in Queen 's College , Belfast .
Received May 16 , 1855 .
The conflicting views which have so long existed as to the true constitution of ozone , induced the author to undertake a careful investigation of the subject , particularly as he had reason to doubt the accuracy of the only quantitative experiments which have yet been made to elucidate this difficult question .
According to the experiments referred to , two substances have been confounded under the name of ozone , one a compound body having the formula HO3 , the other an allotropic variety of oxygen .
To ascertain whether , in conformity with this statement , ozone obtained in the electrolysis of water contains hydrogen as a constituent , the author made two series of experiments .
In the first series , he followed nearly the same method of investigation by which its compound nature is supposed to have been established , but modified so as to avoid a source of error , which , if neglected , vitiates altogether the results .
Electrolytic oxygen , unless very great precautions be taken , is always accompanied by a small but appreciable quantity of carbonic acid , which is liable to be partially absorbed by the potassa set free when a neutral solution of iodide of potassium is decomposed by ozone .
By adding a little hydrochloric acid to the solution of iodide of potassium before the commencement of each experiment , this error may be avoided .
The method of performing the experiment was to conduct a stream of electrolytic oxygen through a compound apparatus previously weighed , which contained on one side an acid solution of iodide of potassium , and on the other sulphuric acid ; the former to decompose the ozone , the latter to prevent the escape of moisture .
The increase in weight of this apparatus gave the entire weight of the ozone ; the iodine set free , when reduced to its equivalent in oxygen , the weight of the active oxygen .
The precautions to be taken in conducting this experiment are fully described in the communication .
The following are the numerical results of five experiments performed according to the above method : Volume of electrolytic Increase in weight of Active oxygen deduced oxygen .
compound apparatus , from iodine set free .
litres .
grmi grm. 10-20 0)0379 0'0386 2-72 0-0107 0O0100 2-86 0'0154 0-0138 6-45 000288 0O0281 6'80 0-0251 0-0273 Total ... ... 0'1179 0-1178 The agreement in these numbers proves that the active oxygen is exactly equal to the entire weight of the ozone , and is therefore identical with it .
In the next series of experiments the author shows that no water is produced in the decomposition of electrolytic ozone by heat .
Large quantities of electrolytic oxygen , containing from 38 to 27 milligrammes of ozone , were decomposed by heat , but no water was obtained in a weighed absorption apparatus , in which the gas was exposed , not only to the action of sulphuric acid , but was also passed through a tube containing anhydrous phosphoric acid .
Having confirmed by new experiments the fact that ozone is formed by the action of the electrical spark on pure and dry oxygen , the author proceeds to institute a comparison between the properties of ozone derived from different sources .
These he finds to be in every respect the same .
Thus ozone , however prepared , is destroyed , or rather converted into ordinary oxygen , by exposure to a temperature of about 2370 C. , and catalytically , by being passed over peroxide of manganese , no water being formed in either case ; it is not absorbed by water , but when sufficiently diluted with other gases , is destroyed by agitation with a large quantity of water ; it is also , contrary to the common statements , destroyed by being agitated with lime-water and baryta-water , provided a sufficient quantity of those solutions be used ; it has always the same peculiar odour ; it bleaches without producing previously an acid reaction ; it oxidizes in all cases the same bodies , &amp;c. From the whole investigation the author draws the conclusion , " that ozone , from whatever source derived , is one and the same substance , and is not a compound body , but oxygen in an altered or allotropic condition .
"

