XXVII .
" Some Experiments with the Great Inductionl Coil at the Royal Polytechnic .
" By JOHN HENRY PEPPER , F.C.S. , Assoc. Ilnst .
C.E. Communicated by J. P. GASSIOT , Esq. Received June 12 , 1869 .
The length of the coil from end to end is 9 feet 10 inches , and the diameter 2 feet ; the whole is cased in ebonite ; it stands on two strong pillars covered with ebonite , the feet of the pillars being 22 inches in diameter .
The ebonite tubes &amp;c. are the largest ever constructed at SilverTown Works .
The total weight of the great coil is 15 cwt .
, that of the ebonite alone being 477 pounds .
I am indebted to Mr. Apps for the following details .
The primary wiie is made of copper of the highest conductivity , and weighs 145 lbs. ; the diameter of this wire is *0925 of an inch , and the length 3770 yards .
The number of revolutions of the primary wire round the core of soft iron is 6000 , its arrangement being 3 , 6 , and 12 strands .
The total resistance of the primary is 2 201400 British Association units ; and the resistances of the primary conductors are , respectively , for three strands 733800 B.A.U. , six *366945 B.A.U. , twelve *1 834725 B.A.U. The primary core consists of extremnely soft straight iron wires 5 feet in length , and each wire is *0625 of au inch in diameter .
The diameter of the combined wires is 4 inches , and their weight is 123 lbs. The secondary wire is 150 miles in length ; it is covered with silk throughout ; and the average diameter is *015 of an inch .
The total weight of this wire is 606 lbs. , and the resistance 33,560 B.A. units .
The insulation throughout is greater by 95 per cent. than the straiu upon the coil during its action .
The secondary wire is insulated from the primary by means of an ebonite tube aui inch in thickiiess and 8 feet in length .
The length of the secondary coil is 54 inches , the diameter is 19 inches , and , without the internial ebonite tube containing the primnary wire and iron core , it is a hollow cylinder 19 inches in diameter and 6 inches thick .
The condenser , made in the usual manner with sheets of varnished paper and tinfoil , is arranged in six parts , each containing 125 superficial feet , or 750 square feet of tinfoil in the whole .
A large and substantially made Contact-breaker , detached from the great coil and worked by an indepenident electromagnet , was constructed , and worked very well withi a comparatively moderate power of 10 or 20 large Bunsen 's cells ; when , however , the battery was increased to 30 or 40 cells , it became unmanageable .
A Foucault break , with the platinumamalgam and alcohol above it , was now tried , and answered very much better than the ordinary contactbreaker : there was no longer any burning or destruction of the contact points , although the great power of the instrument appeared to cause continued decomposition in the water of the alcohol placed above the platinum amalgam , and the spirit was frequently ejected , probably by explosion of the mixed gases taking place in the amalgam , in which they collected in bubbles ; the alcohol took fire constantly , and had to be extinguished .
A large and very strong glass vessel ( in fact the inverted glass cell of a bichromate battery ) was bored through , and the neck fitted into a cap with cement , a thick wire covered with platinum being inserted in the cap ; the platinum amalgam was poured on this , and over it a pint of alcohol ; the contact wire was also very large , and pointed with a thick stud of platinum , and , being attached to a spring , contact was easily made and broken .
Flashes of light could be seen between the amalgam and the alcohol ; but explosions did not occur , and the height of the column of the latter prevented the forcible ejection of the spirit , which no longer took fire .
This break was used for eight hours in a continuous series of experiments .
The Bunsen 's battery used in the experiments was made with the largest porous cells that could be obtained , and each cell contained about one pint of nitric acid , the immersed carbon being 50 superficial inches in each cell .
The resistance of a single cell of this large Bunsen battery was found to be *2585 B.A.U. In the following experiments the battery was arranged for intensity , and used with the complete condenser of 7.50 square feet of tinfoil and 2000 square feet of paper in 1500 sheets .
Number of cells Length of spark .
of battery.inhs inches .
5 ... complete cotndenser .
12 0 10 ... .
, , , , 120 25 2.30 ... , ,23 30 935 ... .
235 35 5 ... ... .
26-0 40 .
) ... 27 5 50 ... .
, , , , ... .
280 to 29 0 The longest spark yet obtained is therefore 29 inches in length .
In order to ascertain whether any variation in the size of the condenser ( of which , as already stated , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , or 6 parts could be used ) would affect the length of the spark , a number of experiments were tried ; and it will be noticed in the tabbulated results that whenhalf the condenser was used the spark increased in length up to 20 cells , but not after .
The experiment of dividing the condenser and using one half led to a very serious accident , and the coil was rendered useless for a time by the destruction of the insulating material of a part of the primary coil ; the particular strands affected threw out minute spicula of metal , which communicated with each other , and the battery-current , instead of passing , through 12057 yards , now only traversed a very short length .
The accident , however , proved to be useful , inasmuch as it showed that the coil could be easily takenl to pieces and repaired in a comparatively short space of time .
In the anlnexed Table the experiments with the half of the colndenser are marked with a cross .
Number of cells .
Lenigth of spark .
inches ... ... ... . .
full condenser ... ... . .
12 00 ... ... ... .
reduced1. .
1075 )51 , ... ... ... ... ... ... .
13 00 , , ... ... ... .
one-ha../ or + 13 50 ... ... ... reduced 4. .
13 00 5 ... ... ... ... .
-9 v ) .
; 11-7**5 inches .
10 e. one-half .
+ .
18-00 ... ... ... .
reduced.17-25 , ,. .
, ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 76 20.full condenser ... .2 l25 .
, ... ... ... .
reduced one-halVf + .
22 30 ... ... ... .
full condenser. .
23 .
, * reduced one-half .
+ .
e 23 a 40 full condenser. .
25'0 g ... ... ... .
one-half .
+ .
25*0 50 ... ... full condenser ... ... ... ... 28 , , o one-half ... ... . .
+ 28 Experiments were now tried to ascertain whether any increase in the length of the spark could be obtained by arranging the battery and the primary coil for quantity .
inches .
5+5 cells , length of spark ... ... ... ... ... ... .
14'5 10+ 10 cells , , , ... ... ... ... ... ... ... I ... ... .
18-0 20+20 cells , , , ... ... ... ... ... ... 21175 25 +25 cells , ,,.23-75 15 + 15 + 15 cells , ,,.20-00 It is evident that no material advantage was obtained by the above arrangement except in the first experimenit ; and even where three groups were connected , as in the last experiment , a decrease in the length of the spark is observed when compared with the 45 or 50 cells arranged for initensity , the difference being as 20 to 28 .
The spark obtained from the large coil presents some novel and curious features .
It is thick and flame-like in its appearance , and therefore it will be alluded to as the " flaimini spark .
" Wheni the discharging-point and circular plate are brought within 6 or 7 inches of each other , the flaming nature of the spark becomes still more apparent .
Two light yellow flames curving upwards appear to connect the opposite poles .
If a blast of air from powerful bellows is directed against the flaming spark , the flaming portion carn be blown away and increased in area ; and thin wiry sparks are now seem darting through it , sometimes in one continuous stream , at another time divided iiito three or more sparks , all following the direction in which the flame is blown .
The heat of this is very great , and , if passed through asbestos ( supported on an insulating pillar ) , quiickly causes the latter to become red-hot , When powdered charcoal is shaken from a pepper-box into the flaming spark in a vertical line and in considerable quantities , the greater part of the light is obscured , and the whole form of the flaming spark presents the appearance of a black cloud with a line of brightly ignited particles fringing the lower parts .
If the charcoal is dusted through in small quantities , each particle becomes ignited , like charcoal blown into a hydrogen-flame .
When the flaming spark is directed on to a glass plate upon which a little solution of lithium chloride is placed , the latter colours the flame upwards to the height of 3 or 4 inches in the most beautiful manner ; and if the point of the discharge is tipped with paper or sponge moistened with a little solution of sodium chloride , the two colours ( the yellow from the salt and the crimson from the lithium ) meet each other , a neutral point being found about halfwav , thus illustrating apparently the dual character of electricity , and that + passes to -electricity , and vice ver8d .
The flaming spark can be obtained in perfectly dry air .
Whilst passing through common air , if blown against a sheet of damp litmus-paper , the latter is rapidly changed red .
In order to ascertain whether the acid product was nitric acid , the flaming spark ( 9 or 10 inches in length ) was passed through a tube connected by a cork and bent tube with a bottle containing distilled water , from which another tube passed to the air-pump ; on drawing the air slowly over the spark , and passing the former into the bottle , nitric acid was obtained in large quantities-so much so that it could be detected by the smell and taste as well as by the ordinary tests .
The popular notion that nitric acid is always produced during a thurnder-storm would therefore appear to be correct .
To determine the effect of a cooling surface on the flaming spark , a hole one inch and a half in diameter was bored through a thick block of Wenham-lake ice , and the spark passed through the air in the tube of ice ; nio change took place , and the spark was still a flaming one .
When the spark was received on the ice , it lost its flaming character , and becanie thin and wiry , spreading oat in all directions .
If the discharging-wires were tipped with ice , the spark was always flaming whenl any thickness of air initervened between them .
Even over the ice , if the spark passed a fraction of an inch above the surface , it was always a flaming one , but changed to the thini spark when the point of the discharging-wire was thrust into the ice .
If one of the discharging-wires of the great coil is brought to the centre of a large swing looking-glass and the other wire connected with the amalgam at theback , the sparks are thin and wiry , arboreseent , and very bright ( see figure , p. 69 ) , the crackling noise of these discharges being quite different from that of the heavy thud or blow delivered 6y the flaming spark .
When the discharging-wire is brought close to the frame of the lookingglass , or if a sufficient thickness of air intervenes , the spark again becomes flaming ; or , as sometimes occurs , if the discharging wire is placed about 5 inches from the framie , the spark is partly flaming and partly wiry , i. e. when it impinges on the glass .
The examination of the flaming spark with the spectroscope has not as yet settled aDything definitely .
The spectrum is a continuous one with the sodiun-line .
When the blast of air is used , and the wiry sparks made apparent , then the nitrogen line appears .
The flaming spark has beeni ascribed by some experienced observers to the incandescence of the dust in the air , and especially sodium chloride .
If the salt &amp;c. is thus made hot , can the air in which it is mechanically diffused remain cool ?
Is not the salt &amp;c. in the same condition as a platinum-wire held in the non-luminous part of the hot burnt gas escaping from the chimney of an Argand burner ?
Will gaseous elements when combining ( and in this case the nitrogen and oxygen do unite , as proved by the formation of nitric acid ) give a colntinuous spectrum ?
To ascertain whether the " flaming spark " could be obtained with a small number of cells , the large Bunsen 's battery was reduiced to 3 cells ; and it was found that no appreciable spark could be produced when the whole primary wire was used with less than 5 cells .
By reducing the length of the primary wire , and using the 4 divisions separately , the following results were are rived at 5 cells .
inches .
1st section , inearest core ... ... 4 wiry spark .
2nd e ... ... ... .
6 3rd , , 4th,6. .
6 , , , 10 cells .
inches .
1st section , nearest core .
8+ , wiry spark .
2nd , ,83 , 3rd , , ... ... ... .
8 , bright blue wiry spark .
4th , , 94- , slightly flaming .
15 cells .
inches .
1st section , nearest core .
10 , slightly flaming .
2nd , , 108 , 3rd , , 93 , 4th , , ... ... ... . .
11- , flaming spark .
20 cells .
inches .
1 st section , nearest core ... 1 1 , flaming spark .
2nd , , ... 12 , 3rd , , 11 , 4th , , 12 ' 1 If the two wires from the secondary coil are placed in water , no spark is perceptible , even when they are brought very close together , until they touch .
If the negative wire is passed through a cork , on which a glass tube ( a lamp-glass ) is fixed containing a depth of 5 inches of water , and the positive wire is brought within half an inch of the surface of the water in the tube , it becomes red-hot ; and if drawn further awav from the surface , the upper part of the tube is filled with a peculiar glow or light abounding in Stokes 's rays .
The experiments with the vacuuim-tubes , and especially Gassiot 's cascade , are , as might be expected , very beautiful .
When a coal-gas vacuum-tube of considerable diameter , and conveying the full discharge from the secondary coil , is supported over a powerful electromagnet axially , the discharge is condensed and heat is produced .
If placed equatorially , the heat increases greatly ; the discharge is condensed and iMpinges upon the sides of the glass tube , which becomes too hot to touch ; and if the experiment had been continued too long , no doubt the tube would have cracked .
The enormous quantity of electricity of high tension which the coil evolves when conniected with a battery of 40 cells , is shown by the rapidity with which it will charge a Leyden battery .
Under favourable circun stances , three contacts with the mercurial break will charge 40 square feet of glass .
Mr. Gassiot was present on one occasion , and particularly observed with myself the rapidity with which a series of 12 large Leyden jars arraniged in cascade were discharged .
The noise was great ; and each time the spark ( which was very condensed and brilliant ) struck the metallic disk , the latter emitted a ringing sound , as if it had received a sharp blow from a small hammer .
The discharges were made from a point to a metallic disk ; and when the former was positive the dense spark measured from 18k to 183 inches , and fell to 8k inches when the metallic plate was positive and the point negative .
A variations of the Leyden-jar experiments was tried , by connecting the coil worked by a quantity battery of 25+25 cells with six Leyden jars arranged in cascade ; and the spark obtained measured 8k inches .
The same six jars connected with the coil when the 50 cells were arraniged continuously for intensity gave a spark of 12 inches of very great density and brilliancy .
Other experiments are being tried with the great coil , the results of which will be duly brought before the Societv if thought of sufEcient inportance .

