I. " Further observations on the Anatomy of Macgillivraya , Cheletropis , and allied genera of pelagic Gasteropoda .
" By JOHN DENIS MACDONALD , Esq. , R.N. , Assistant-Surgeon H.M.S.V. 'Torch .
' Communicated by Sir W. BURNETT , K , C.B. Received February 22 , 1855 .
The author states , that in a late voyage from Sydney to Moreton Bay , specimens of Macgillivraya , Cheletropis and a few other genera of minute pelagic Gasteropoda , apparently undescribed , were daily taken in the towing-net , and afforded him an opportunity of more precisely determining the mode of attachment of the ciliated arms which he had at first presumed to be naked branchiae .
In his former paper * it was stated , more particularly of Cheletropis Huxleyi , that the gills were of two kinds , viz. " covered " and " naked ; " the former , corresponding to those of the pectinibranchiate Gasteropoda generally , he has never found to be absent in any of the genera ; but from further observation of the so-called naked gills , while the animals were alive in their native element , he is disposed to think that they are chiefly employed for prehension , and probably as auxiliary organs of natation .
When these ciliated appendages are fully extended , the line of cilia is perfectly straight , so that the frilled border , noticed in the previous account , turns out to be a character depending simply on the partial contraction of the longitudinal muscular fibres , preparatory to complete retraction of the organs .
They have no connexion with the mantle , but encircle the mouth together with the tentacula and eyes , and coalesce at their bases like the segments of a deeply-cleft calyx .
In the specimens of Macgillivraya examined the arms were quite transparent , but marked at irregular intervals with cross streaks of brownish purple .
In the extended state they were several times the length of the shell , and , like the arms of a polype , they rolled themselves up when touched , and started back into the shell with surprising rapidity .
They appeared also to be exquisitely sensitive , exhibiting short twitching movements when minute particles suspended in the water came in contact with them .
In the specimens of Macgillivraya now referred to , the respiratory siphon consisted of a process of the mantle converted into a tube by the mere apposition of its borders without organic union ; it was moreover much shorter than had been usually observed in previous examples , and the author thinks that those now under consideration may be a variety , if not a distinct species .
In his former examinations of this tribe of Gasteropoda , the author had never found more than four arms encircling the head , but he has since discovered six in a single genus with which he had been long familiar by external characters .
In this case the operculigerous lobe of the foot is quite cylindrical and of some length , bearing the peculiar operculum on its truncated extremity with the clawed process pointing to the left side .
The sucker-disc is very small , and presents an anterior and posterior lobe .
The two tentacula bear each an ocellus on the outer side near the base , and the ciliated arms , in every respect save number , resemble those of Macgillivraya and its congeners .
The clawed operculum is developed from a spiral nucleus situate near the internal thickened border ; it seems to be a weapon of defence , and is wielded with great dexterity by the little animal , which makes skips and jerks by means of its complex foot , after the manner of Nassa or Strombus .
The author notices another member of this diminutive tribe which is very commonly met with in the South Pacific , and has almost an indefinite range .
As regards both animal and shell , it in many points resembles a miniature Natica .
The shell is few-whorled , with small compressed spire and ventricose mouth ; the operculum paucispiral and well-marked with the lines of growth .
The foot is not unlike a broad and square-toed shoe in form , receiving or bearing the remainder of the animal and the shell .
The shoe-upper , as it were , presents two rounded lateral lobes which lie over the anterior part of the shell , like the mentum of Natica .
The little animal creeps on its foot with great rapidity , appearing rather to slide along than progress by a vermicular movement , and by spreading out and hollowing this organ at the surface of the water , as a freshwater Lymnead forms a boat of its foot , it buoys up its tiny body and is cast abroad on the face of the ocean .
The paper was illustrated with coloured figures of most of the objects described .

