]\gt ; 572 Rev. Dr. T. R. Robinson .
June 1 FIG. 7 .
On substituting either the bell-jar , with disk terminals , or the tube 199 for the voltameter , the deflection of the return static charge was in the same direction as the return curl.ent from the voltameter , so that , as we before stated , no inference can be drawn from the direction of the current as to its being produced by polarisatiou or a static We think , however , that we have shown conclusively that the eflect in the case of a vacuum-tube is due to a static charge , and not to a polarisation of the terminals .
We rest our opinion mainly on the fact that a greater deflection is produced , when the potential has not been lessened by a discharge through the tube , than that which occurs after the discharge has taken place , which , it had been surmised , possibly produce a chemical polarisation .
XII .
' On the Constants of the Cup Anemometer Bythe Rev , T. R. ROBINSON , D.D. , F.B.S. , \amp ; c. Received June 13 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous paper the author detailed experiments made by attaching anemometers to a whirling machine , and the conclusions which they led .
He was however doubtful of the accuracy of the method , and proposed one depending on the action of natural wlnd , 1880 .
] On the Constants of the Cup An jmometer .
573 He has tried this , and he thinks successfully .
Two instruments of the Kew type , differing only in friction , were established 22 feet asunder on the roof of the house and 16 feet above it : the number of turns made by each , and the time , were recorded by a chronograph , and from these , and , the velocity in miles per hour of the centres of the cups was known .
The friction of one of these ( K ) was constant ; that of the other ( E ) was varied by ] ying to a disk on its axle Prony 's brake , which as connected with a spring balance whose tension was recorded durmg the time of experiment by a pencil moved by clockwork .
Thus the mean friction was obtained .
It ranged from 353 grains to The equation of an anemometer 's motion is where is the unknown velocity of the wind , and two consta1lts which are to be determined .
Each observation gives two equations in which there four unknown quantities , for it is found that the value of changes from one instrument to another .
This is partly owing to eddies caused by the buildings , but also in great measure to irregularity of the wind itself .
It is , however , also found that these wind-differences are as likely to have slgns , and therefore it may be expected that their sum will vanish in a number of observations .
The ordinary methods of elimination fail hers even to determlne with precision a single constant , and he has proceeded by approXlmation .
Assuming the value of given by the actual measurements in his paper at and -inch cups , and there is no resistance as except that in the equation , and assumlng an approxl- mate value for , we can compute and V ' .
The diflerence between these be due to an error in and to the wind error , and taking the sum of a series we have being If the observations are sufficiently numerous , with the assumed thus found , recompute the till the sum of is insensible , and the final will give with a high .
of probability .
Twenty-one observations gave a value of considerably larger than what was obtained with the whirling machine , and of course the limiting factor ( that when is so large that may be neglected ) .
It is for the Kew type cups arms .
In this series the differences are so evidently casual as to show that neither or change with With this gives the true value of at it ; therefore if any ..574 Mr. J. W. Mallet .
[ June 17 , other type be substituted for it is easy to find its , for its is as area of cups , its is known , and assuming its and computing as before , we get similarly its .
He tried five different types and obtained very unexpected results , for he found that the varied as some inverse function of the diameter of the cups and of the arms .
He gives its values .
No. 1 .
Originalinstrument cups arms , , limit 2 .
Kew . . . . . . . . . . . .
9 , , 24 , , , , , , , , 3 .
, , . . . . . . . . . . . .
9 , , 12 , , , , , , .
, , . . . . . . . . . . . .
9 , 8 , , , , 5 .
, , . . . . . . . . . . . .
4 , , , , , , , , 6 .
, ; . . . . . . . . . . . .
4 , , , , , , , , No. 6 is similar to No. 2 , and it might be expected that their constants would be equal .
The cause of these diflerences is partly the eddies caused by the cups being more powerful when the arms are short , but still more the presence of high powers of the arm and diameter occurring in the expressions of the mean pressures on the concave and convex surfaces of the hemispheres .
In the present state of hydrodynamics we cannot assign these expressions , but we know enough to see that such powers maDe present .
As each type of anemometer has its own constants , the author would suggest to meteorologists the propriety of confining themselves to one or two forms .
For fixed instruments he considers the Kew one as good as any , and would wish to see it generally adopted .
For portable ones he has no experience except with Casella 's cups arms , which he found very convenient ; he has not however determined its constants .
Some selection of the sort seems necessary if it is wished to have an uniform system of wind-measures .
XIII .
" " Note on the Bearing on the Atomic Weight of Alumi- nium of the Fact that this Metal occludes Hydrogen By J. W. MALLET , F.R.S. Received June 14 , 1880 .
In a recent communication to the Academy des Scisnces , has been pointed out by Dumas that metallic aluminium and lesium , as well as silver , may contain quantities of occluded gas , that obtained from aluminium being almost pure hydrogen .
In a paper on the atomic weight of aluminium read before the Royal Society on the of April last I gave , among other data , the resuIts of several experiments on the quantity of hydrogen liberated by a known weight of aluminium from a strong solution of sodium hydrate .
* ' Comptes Rendus 3 My , 1880 , .
1027 .

