" Microscopic Observations on the so-called Vesicular Vapours of Water as existing in the Vapours of Steam , and in Clouds , " &amp;c. By A. Waller , M.D. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. From some experiments , of which the author published an account in the Philosophical Magazine of last February , he was led to conclude that the opaque vapours of condensed steam consist of minute globules or spherules of water , and not of small vesicles , as is implied in the generally received theory , according to which this condition of water is designated by the term vesicular vapour .
In the present paper , he relates a set of experiments confirming by microscopic observation his views of the globular condition of the particles of opaque vapours ; premising a short retrospect of the opinions of Sir Isaac Newton , Halley , Kratzenstein , and De Saussure on this subject .
Finding it impossible to observe the globules with any high magnifying power while they are at liberty to move , the author adopted the plan of fixing the condensed vapours arising from the breath or other sources , in some liquid , such as oil , which has no affinity with water .
Of the many vehicles which he has tried , he finds Canada balsam to be that which is best adapted for these observations .
By breathing with a little force on a slip of glass previously covered with a thin layer of balsam , the vapours of the breath are not only condensed on its surface , but penetrate beneath , where they may be recognised in opaque streaks of a white colour , and where they remain stationary for more than an hour ; or , if covered with another thin piece of glass or talc , for a much longer period .
These streaks are decomposed under the microscope into minute globules perfectly spherical , like shot , or the globules of mercury .
The author describes , at some length , the various appearances presented under different circumstances , and with different oily fluids ; and gives drawings of these appearances as exhibited by the microscope .

