]\gt ; VII .
On th Motion and Vibrations of Hollow Vortex .
W. M. HICKS , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , by J. W. L. GLAISHER , M.A. , F.R. Received May 31 , \mdash ; Read Junc 21 , 1883 .
CONTENTS .
PAGE Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . .
161 SECTION I.\mdash ; The stream and velocity functions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
164 S l.\mdash ; Equation of conjugate toroidal functions . . . . . . . . . .
164 2.\mdash ; The cyclic constant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
166 8.\mdash ; Velocity potential for given normal motion . . . . . . . .
167 4.\mdash ; Expansions of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
171 SECTION II.\mdash ; Motion of rigid tore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
172 S 6.\mdash ; Stream function for the cyclic motion . . . . . . . .
, . . . . .
172 6.\mdash ; Stream function for translation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
173 7.\mdash ; Amount of fluid carl'ied forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
175 8.\mdash ; Energy of motion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
177 SECTION III.\mdash ; Steady motion of hollow vortex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
179 S 9.\mdash ; First approximation to velocity of translation , and surface velocity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
179 10.\mdash ; Stream functions for a tore whose section deviates slightly from a circle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
183 ll.\mdash ; Second approximation to the form of the hollow . . . .
185 12.\mdash ; Energy of vortex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
190 13.\mdash ; Waves round hollow .
Stability of hollow . . . . . . . . . .
191 14.\mdash ; Pulsations of hollow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
195 THE following pages form a continuation of some researches commenced about three years ago , but which the author was compelled by other engagements to lay aside until the beginning of the present year .
The general theory of the functions employed was published in the Transactions of this Society ( Part III .
, , under the title of ' ' Toroidal Functions TLese and analogous functions are employed in the present communication .
and references in square brackets , with the letters T.F. , refer to this paper .
Since it was written I have found that CARL NEUMANN had already given the general transformation [ T.F. S1 ] by means of conjugate functions , in a pamphlet published at Halle in 1864 , with the title 'Theorie der Elektricitats- und Warme-Vertheilung in einem Ringe .
' The theory of the motion of vortices is interesting , not only from the mathematical difficulties encountered in its treatment , but also from its connexion with Sir W. THOMSON'S theory of the vortex atom constitution of matter .
In an abstract of the present paper intended for the Proceedings of this Society , I have given some physical speculations which induced me to take up the question of the motion of a hollow vortex\mdash ; that is , where cyclic motion exists in a fluid without the presence of any actual rotational filaments\mdash ; in which case there must be a ring-shaped hollow in the fluid , however great the pressure may be , so long as it is finite .
The essential quality of all vortex motion is the cyclic motion existing in the fluid outside the filament , and not the rotational motion of the filament itself .
Whether the filament be present or not , it is often possible to get some general idea of the motion that ensues in many cases without recourse to actual calculation .
Thus , for instance , the treatment by Sir .
THOMSON of the action of two vortices on one another , and of the form of the axis of a ring , along which waves of displacement are running , may be cited .
The same course of general reasoning , which was applied in a paper on the steady motion of two cylinders in a fluid , will also apply to illustrate the mechanism , so to speak , which causes a single vortex ring to move with a motion of translation .
Thus suppose a single vortex ring , which is for a moment at rest .
It is clear that the velocity of the fluid just inside the }perture is reater than outside , and therefore the pressure less inside than outside , whilst the pressure is the same at corresponding points in the front and hinder portions .
The equence of this is that the ring begins to contract without a general motion of translation .
But the effect of this contraction of aperture itself produces velocities in the surrounding fluid , which , combined with the cyclic motion , increase the velocities in front of the ring , and decrease them behind .
The consequence of this is a difference of pressures , which urges the rin in the direction of the cyclic motion through the ring , and it begins to move forward with increasing velocity .
After a time this translatory motion would increase so much as to make the velocity within the aperture approach to that without ; the state of motion will therefore be one in which the translatory velocity tends continually to a limit .
The present communication is divided into three sections .
In the first , new functions are introduced to give the stream lines .
These functions are connected with , and have analogous properties to , the Toroidal Functions ; are , in fact , given by and .
They have the property of being single-valued , even when they represent cyclic motion\mdash ; a motion which the single-valued Toroidal Functions cannot by themselves represent .
At the end of the section the values of * ' ' Vortex Motion Trans. Roy .
Soc. Edin .
, " " Vortex Statics Proc. Roy .
Soc. Edin .
, Quart .
Jour .
Math. , xvii .
SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
the first few terms in the expansions of the first four orders of , are given .
Section Ir .
is devoted to the consideration of the motion of a rigid ring in fluid , when it moves parallel to its straight axis .
The functions for the motion apply directly to the case considered afterwards of the vortex .
The points of division of the stream , the quantity of fluid carried forward , and the energy of the motion are considered .
In Section III .
the problem of the steady motion of a hollow vortex is treated , together with the small vibrations when the hollow is fluted , and when it pulsates .
The section of a ring is throughout considered as small compared with the aperture , and the expressions giving the form of the hollow , the surface velocity , velocity of translation and energy , are carried to a second approximation , the quantity by which the approximation proceeds being the ratio where denote the radii of the mean section and aperture respectively ; when the ring is very small , this is very approximately .
The condition that the hollow must be a free surface over which the pressure is constant gives a relation which must always satisfy , which for very small rings reduces to the constancy of the radius of the hollow .
For a solid ring the corresponding condition is , of course , the constancy of volume .
This makes an essential difference between the two theories .
To a second approximation the velocity of translation is unaltered , and is given whilst to the second approximation the surface velocity , relative to the hollow itself , is where is the radius of the " " critical\ldquo ; circle\mdash ; or the length of a tangent from the centre to the ring , and is therefore equal to for small rings\mdash ; and is the cyclic constant .
In the steady motion considered , the fluid carried forward with the ring forms a single mass , without aperture even for extremely small tores , though not for infinitely small ones .
For values of there will be no aperture , whilst for less values the fluid carried forward will be ring-shaped .
To a first approximation the energy due to the cyclic motion is the most important , and is the same as for a rigid ring at rest of the same size .
It does not depend on the velocity of translation , except in so far as this determines the size of the aperture ; as entering in this way the principal term varies inversely as the velocity of translation , and thus increases with diminished *[ April , 1884.\mdash ; Owing to an error in S3 , the values given in the Proceedings require correction .
] translatory motion , esult obtained bfrom gICKS OTEADY MOTION A reasoning .
The terms obtained by the second approximation arise from the translatory motion .
In Art .
13 the time of vibration of the steady form is obtained , when the cross section is crimped , or the whole hollow surface fluted .
For this mode the time of vibration is , for small rings , given very approximately by , being the density , and the pressure of the fluid at a great distance , whilst is the number of crimpings in a section .
This , it is to be noted , is independent of the energy , and depends only on constants of the ring , and the fluid , and the mode of vibration .
If the hollow pulsates , or changes its volume periodically , the time of pulsation is .
As depends on the size of the ring , and therefore on the energy , this time is not independent of the latter , but it varies extremely slowly with it .
The times here given must be understood to apply to the steady motion ; when the ring is changing its size they must be modified .
The investigation of this case , and of that in which there is a core of denser matter than the surrounding fluid , I hope shortly to take up .
Section I.\mdash ; The functions .
1 .
The functions whose properties were investigated in my paper on Toroidal metions are only suitable for expressing fluid motions about circular tores when there is no cyclic motion through the aperture .
It will be necessary therefore to investigate some method by which this can be taken into consideration .
If we consider only motions symmetrical about an axis , and in planes through that axis , it is well known that the motion can be represented by STOKES ' stream function .
This function is only multiple valued when there are sources or sinks in the fluid , the cyclic constants in this case being the normal flows outwards through surfaces completely enclosing the various sources or sinks .
If denote the stream function , the velocities at any point are given by , and , when the motion is irrotational , satisfies the equation To transform this to the independent variables ( u.v ) , where , we notice that the kinetic energy of fluid motion within any space , with given normal motions over this surface , is a minimum when the motion is irrotational , or the above differential equation is satisfied .
The condition is therefore found by making a minimum .
Now * " " Vortex Atoms Proc. Roy .
Soc. Edin .
, , and Phil. Mag. ( 4 ) , 34 .
SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
Therefore the expression to be made a minimum is whence ( 1 ) In this pu and the equation in becomes , remembering that The particular mation employed for the Toroidal Functions makes whence Put , where is a function of only ; then must satisfy which may be compared with the equation for Toroidal Functions , viz. , It is easy to see that the equation in is satisfied by We will choose the constants so that the two integrals are ( 2 ) also The value of is now , putting in the value of , viz. , and clearly belong to the same spaces as respectively , that is , to space outside , and to space inside a tore .
It is easy now to prove from the value of , viz. , that ( 3 ) The are all positive , except 2 .
Cyclic constant.\mdash ; The cyclic constant of is the flow along any closed curve threading the tore once .
We know that this must be independent of the form of the curve .
To find it , choose the curve to be a constant ; the flow along this is then the velocity in the aperture being in the positive direction .
Consider first the general term in ; the flow due to this is nvdv [ T.F. SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
which is independent of as it ought to be .
The corresponding terms in nv evidently disappear .
Similarly the terms in would produce Hence the cyclic constant is ( 4 ) 3 .
In the paper on Toroidal Functions several examples were given of the determination of the potential function when is given oyer a tore ; but when the variation of along the normal to the surface is given , the determination of the co-efficients becomes more difficult , and one case only , for the motion of a tore perpendicular to its plane , was given .
It will be well , therefore , to consider here the general theory for this class of surface conditions .
The co.efficients are be determined from the fact that is ( 1 ) finite in the space considered , and at infinity , and ( 2 ) has a given value oyer the surface of a tore .
Here I consider only the case where the motion is symmetrical about the axis , and therefore the normal velocity given by a function of only , say .
Condition ( 1 ) is satisfied by space outside the tore by taking only functions .
We put then and determine from the equation when , for all values of Consider separately the terms in and .
For the cosines we have For shortness write .
Then But [ T.F. , p. 646 ] Therefore April , 1884.\mdash ; This term was omitted in the paper as read .
It has necessitated slight alterations in some of the results then given .
] and Hence the A have to be determined from nv Suppose now , writing for the present . . . .
where Hence for and or Therefore whence SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
or The co-efficients are now determined to the extent of one arbitrary constant .
This appears because is also indeterminate to the extent of an additive constant .
As this constant is expansible in a series of the form nv , it introduces the undetermined constant above , which must be determined by the condition that the series must be convergent .
This cannot be unless , which requires whence ( 5 ) So also the terms in nv will give and the particular case my produces the same equations as before , except that the last is where whence and the condition of convergency determines , so that ( 6 ) It remains to show that with these values of the series and are convergent .
The parts of depending on ?
, when is large , Now [ T.F. , 12 , 13 ] since Hence Therefore is ultimately or the series are convergent .
We are now in a position to determine for any normal motion .
All we have to do is to expand in a series of sines and cosines of multiples of and consider each term as giving rise to a value of , whose form we have just determined , and take the sum of the various values .
A form for analogous to that for can easily be found .
If nv SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
But Hence ( 7 ) where 4 .
For reference I here insert the values of the first five orders of the functions , expressed exact in terms of the elliptic integrals , and ( ) approximate in series of ascending powers of the modulus .
Throughout this paper the moduli are instead of the of the paper on Toroidal Functions .
It has been thought advisable to do this as all the approximations go according to powers of ( the old Hence , of course , appear in , and vice versed .
We know that Hence for the first set of formulae we require only to tabulate .
For the first five they are ( 8 ) These are exact .
In the applications which follow will nearly always be a very small quantity , so that a few terms of the series will give the values very approximately .
By substituting their values for in terms of the expressions become , writing for ( 9 ) 10 ) .
( 11 ) ( 12 ) $ . .
Section II .
\mdash ; Motion about a rigid tore which moves dicularly to its plane .
As the motion of a tore throws some light on the analogous problem of the uniform translation of a vortex l.ing , and as the functions required in its discussion will be needed in investigating the latter , it will be useful to give a short treatment of the question , especially as the motion can be determined for any size of tore , whereas our methods , in the case of hollow vortices , will only apply when the cross section of the hollow is not large compared with the aperture .
The stream function is necessary for the cyclic motion , and it will therefore be convenient to take the stream function also for the motion of translation . .
Stream function for cyclic motion.\mdash ; If the tore be given by the conditions which must satisfy are that it must be finite for space outside the tore , and be constant for all values of when .
Hence must be expansible in the form SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
Let be the constant value over the surface of the tore .
Then , dashed letters denoting the values of the functions on the tore , ( by Eq. 3 ) but Hence ( 13 ) This is more convergent than , and is therefore convergent .
Let denote the cyclic constant , then by ( 4 ) ( 14 ) When the section of the tore is ] compared with the aperture , the value of correct to the fourth power of , is ( 15 ) 6 .
Stream function for translation.\mdash ; In the preceding case the conditions were that must be constant over the tore and finite at an infinite distance from it .
In the present case .
must be finite at an infinite distance and oyer the surface , V being the velocity of translation , and the stream function for the tore moying in the fluid , at rest at infinity and referred to its instantaneous position .
But if this condition be applied , we shall also , on account of the cyclosis , obtain besides an added cyclic motion through the aperture determined by the surface condition .
It will be necessary to subtract this cyclic motion therefore from the obtained by applying the condition above .
This condition gives for all values of Therefore but Hence a convergent series .
The circulation of this is by ( 4 ) Let the stream function for this be Then If then The stream function for translation alone ( 16 ) The principal term here is the second , in .
To the value of is ( 17 ) The value of alon the tore is The stream lines will of course in general be closed curves , having their extremities on the surface of the tore ; one set going through the aperture , and the other outside .
SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
To find the point where the two sets meet on the tore , we notice that the stream line there goes to infinity , and its value is the same as for a point on the axis , it is , in fact , a part of the same stream line .
For this ; hence the point on the tore , where this stream line meets it , is given by the value of , which satisfies the equation where are the values of when It is clear that when is very small , must be negative , that is , or that the point of division must lie inside a tangent from the centre to the tore .
7 .
Combined translation cyclic motion.\mdash ; The expressions just obtained enable us to determine the amount of fluid carried forward bodily with the ring .
Let denote the ratio ; then the stream function for the combined motion is where This is the stream function when the fluid is at rest at an infinite distance .
To find the portion carried forward , impress on the whole system a velocity equal and opposite to V ; the problem then is to determine the portion of fluid which remains circulating round the ring at rest , without streaming away .
The stream function for the new motion is The portion remaining with the tore lies inside the surface given by putting equal to a certain constant , which we proceed to determine .
This portion may either be ring-shaped or not .
The limiting case between the two is when the veJocity at the centre of the tore is zero .
The value of for this case we shall call the critical value of .
It is given by or The right hand member of this equation is the velocity at the centre due to the cyclic motion alone , divided by .
Call this velocity , and denote the critical value of V by , then The most important terms in these expressions are ( 18 ) The stream lines will be given by const and by choosing the constant properly , we may make this represent the surface of the fluid carried forward .
To determine the constant we need only find one point on the surface by the above method .
If the value of is less than the critical value , the surface will extend to the axis ; in this case the best way wiJl be to put and find from the equation If on the contrary is greater than , the surface is ring-shaped , and it will be best to find from the equation If be negative , or the velocity of translation and the cyclic motion within the aperture be in the opposite direction , the corresponding equation will be In tabulating corresponding values of and the best way would be to insert values of and determine .
The following numbers in the case of were obtained in this way .
For the case of less than the critical value , the surface cuts the straight axis at points given in the several cases by For a ring-shaped surface , and whilst for a negative translation , and are sets of colresponding values .
8 .
The energy of the fluid notion.\mdash ; The energy is given by supposing the density of the fluid to be unity .
Treating this in a similar way to the analogous expression in terms of the velocity potential , and remembering that whenever the volume of the surfaces immersed remains constant , as here , is single valued , we shall find ( by means of equation 1 ) that the integration being extended over any meridian curve of the solid , and being measured inwards along the normal ( i.e. , from the fluid ) .
In the case , therefore , of circular tores Now we know that for the cyclic motion the energy is cyclic constant flow through the aperture , and , therefore , with our notation is .
But it will be interesting to see how this is also arrived at from the preceding expression .
The whole energy can be put in the form we proceed to determine by means of the above formula . .
Here along the surface a constant , and , Therefore MR. W. M. HICKS ON THE STEADY MOTION AND nv [ T.F. , 24 ] ( by 4 ) Hence energy , as is right , or .
Here along the tore is , and denoting the general value of by Now is proportional to the flow round the ring due to translation alone , and is therefore zero .
Hence But nv ( say ) Therefore Hence by 7 Now Therefore SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
Hence dropping the dashes , and denoting the value of along the tore having the values given above , and the values given in 7 . .
The value of 7 is given by Here is constant and , also Hence Further 1 is the flow along a closed curve threading the aperture and is therefore the cyclic constant Therefore The last integral may be expressed as in the analogous case for Section III.\mdash ; Steady motion of holtow vortex .
9 .
The form of a holow vortex and its motion are conditioned by the fact that the velocity of the fluid relatively to the hollow , when the motion is steady , must be constant over the whole surface of the tore .
When the section is small compared with the aperture , the section wil ] clearly be very approximately circular , and to a first approximation the motion will be represented by the stream function found in the previous section , the value of therein being chosen so as to make the coefficient of in the expression for the velocity disappear .
This will give the first term in the expression for the velocity of translation of the vortex , when it moves forward without change of form .
In order to arrive at closer approximations it will be necessary to take account of the form of the section , and is done in the following investigation , so far as to get a second approximation , although the method employed is capable of being carried further , of course , with more and more complexity in the calculations .
By impressing on the whole fluid a velocity equal and opposite to that of the hollow , the hollow is brought to rest , with the fluid streaming past it .
The stream function in this case becomes where The values of the first three are The approximation proceeding according to powers of , each coefficient is one order higher than the preceding .
Let be the velocity at any point of the hollow .
Then , to the first order of smaH quantities , here the section is circular where The part of due to the first term is SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
In finding the second part it will be well for the later approximations to carry term further to include .
Then from ( 7 ) , if be the part of due to this where These values of are to be expanded in a of cosines of multiple angles .
But here it is only needful to keep terms of the same order as , or compared with of order .
Now Hence Also considering at present and to be of the same order .
From this it is easy to show that if For the first approximation the lowest term in in must vanish .
Hence Now and the lowest terms in are Substituting the values of , \amp ; c. , from ( 19 ) Hence SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
To the same order by ( 15 ) Therefore ( 21 ) The principal term in is found by equating it to the principal terms in , i.e. , and is therefore independent of the velocity of translation , as ought to be the case , since the latter depends on the difference of the cyclic tangential velocities inside and outside the tore .
Substituting for Now , for steady motion , the equation of pressure gives at the surface of the hollow , if and be the pressure at an infinite distance , and the density of the fluid respectively Hence must be the same for hollows of all sizes , and consequently constant for all the steady motions of the same vortex .
When the hollow is small this is approximately the same as saying that the radius of the cross section is constant .
The corresponding theorem for a solid ring is of course that the volume is constant .
10 .
For the second approximation we need to determine the stream function when the cross section of the ring is not an exact circle .
The following investigation is slightly more general than is necessary for our present purposes .
Let be the value of for the mean section , and let the section be given by , say where are small quantities with respect to .
When the tore is at rest fluid streaming past it , the stream function is where the have the values given in ( 19 ) .
Let the stream function for the non-circular section be where and are also small .
The necessary condition is , that when has the value ?
: given above , must be constant , say .
Then neglecting squares of The value of is arbitraly , since with any given surface conditions the circulation remains undetermined .
We shall choose it so as to make the circulation zero .
It would be impossible to determine in the general case where both and are infinite series ; but in the case required in the present paper is of the order being small , and the terms in neglected after .
This simplifies the calculation , and it is easy to determine the terms in terms of .
But it is further greatly simplified by the fact that in the case to which we have to apply it the velocity along the surface is already uniform to the first other words whence Hence the equation determining the is But since in our applications is itself so small that has been neglected compared with unity , the above becomes cos2 sin nv The various normal functions will therefore be composed of a set of principal terms in , \amp ; c. , each corrected by an infinite convergent series of small terms of the others .
The principal will be given by Therefore SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
The series connected with to complete the solution for a given are found from nv with a corresponding equation for in which We need only consider for the first approximation the principal terms , which give Since the circulation is to vanish , 11 .
We are now in a position to determine the first term in the expression , giving the form of the hollow , viz. , that part which will destroy the term in in the value of the surface velocity .
denoting this velocity we have Now at the mean section , and is therefore at Ieast of the first order of small quantities near the circle .
Hence where and are the values given in ( 20 ) when is substituted for in the functions in Now is of the form , hence Therefore and The principal term here is It remains now to determine to the same order of approximation , that is so far as the first power of Now therefore therefore SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
Therefore , substituting the value of already found for , since is at least of order , the last term in the factor of , can be neglected , and again Now Also since .
also therefore The principal term in is therefore therefore Hence , substituting their values for cos2 The condition that the coefficient of vanishes gives or since therefore or Also , since Therefore Hence , ( 1 .
) The velocity of translation remains unaltered to this order .
( 2 .
) The form of the hollow is given by ( 3 .
) The surface velocity is SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
The effect of the correction to the form of the hollow is to make the section slightly elliptic with the major axis perpendicular to the plane of the ring , and with the inner side slightly flatter than the other .
The value of obtained above is , when is infinitely small , larger than the critical value given in ( 18 ) .
The fluid carried forward will therefore be ring-shaped .
If for a rough approximation we take the two first terms of the expressions , the value of for a hollow vortex in steady motion , and carrying forward a simply connected mass of fluid , will be found from or very nearly this would make , about .
Since is so small our approximations are very close , and it follows that for even extremely small cores of hollow vortices , the fluid carried forward is a mass without aperture .
For infinitely small ones this is not the case .
The form of the hollow has been determined above by the value of .
If the normal vanation ffom the circle be denoted by Sn S The figure below represents the form given by this expression to a circle in which .
Though this value is large , it shows bhe laCure of the change of form better than a smaller value .
where is an element of the arc of the cross-section , its length , and the velocity along the surface regarded as for the moment fixed in space .
It is therefore the component of V along the surface and , that is Also const Hence , to the first order , where the section is a circle , the energy is where Therefore the energy is But Substituting these values , the energy is Now to the order of approximation of circular section , and the energy is , which is the same as for a rigid tore at rest .
If the shape be SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
191 regarded , then since here the variation from the circle depends on , we may treat it circular in the integration , provided we do not carry our approximation beyond In this case and the energy is To the lowest order this is 13 .
If the steady shape as jusb found receive a slight disturbance synumetrical about the straight axis , a series of waves will be propagated round the hollow .
To prove this , and to find the time of oscillation for fferent modes , will be the aim of the remainder of this paper ; and firstly I consider the case where the cross-section is crimped into a form given by sin , where M. are small com- pared with , and functions of the time .
Since they are functions of the time , the volume of the hollow will change , and consequently the stream function will be cyclic .
The rate of change of volume is where is the coefficient of nv in the expansion of Hence and the rate of change of volume which is of the order , a quantity beyond that which we neglect .
Hence we may employ the stream function .
Let then denote this function for the small motion given by .
The condition to find it that for all values of the time Considering first the term , the corresponding form for will be my the coefficient being determined from the condition for all values of when .
Therefore or nv rrvv \mdash ; From this we may obtain sequence equations to determine the ; but we require only the most .
important terms , hence and Since the cyclic motion due to this is zero , there is no correction to be introduced for it as in former cases .
If be the velocity potential , the condition for a free surface gives being an arbitrary function of the time .
The velocity normal to the surface is of the first order of small quantities , and its square is to be neglected .
The velocity along the surface is where is the velocity determined in S10 and SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
Hence Now is the flow along any curve from a fixed point up to the point in question .
Let us take the curve to be formed by a straight line from the centre in the plane of the ring up to bhe surface , and then along the ring to the point .
The first part will be a function of the time alone , and will therefore disappear with ; of the part along the ring , that due to the cyclic motion will be constant , and therefore the corresponding part in will disappear .
The part depending on the velocity of translation will be proportional to , which will introduce a quantity proportional to in .
This will contain terms in , which will not enter again .
Hence must be equated to zero , or the velocity of translation will not be affected .
There remains only the part depending on the flow along the surface due to the motion .
This we proceed to find .
Denoting it by nvdv the principal part of which is The part of this , independent of , will disappear with .
Further , since multiplied by , we must only take their lowest terms , which are independent of .
Finally then equating to zero the coefficient of Now therefore To the order here reached therefore Hence Now Therefore The coefficient of is always positive ; hence the hollow is stable for displacements of this kind , and the time of vibration for displacement of order is Since throughout our approximations we have neglected compared with unity , we may simplify this further by obtaining the value of the expression under the square root to the same order , Now SMALL VIBRATIONS OF A HOLLOW VORTEX .
The time of vibration may ] be written in the forms which shows that the time is independent of the velocity of translation , a result has important bearing on the theory that atoms of matter are follow vortices .
For the different orders of vibration , the time of vibration varies inversely as the square root of the number of crests running round the ] 14 .
Pulsation of hollow.\mdash ; In the preceding case , would correspond to pulsations of the hollow , in which therefore the whole motion is a change of volume , and the use of the stream function is not allowable .
But as it happens , the application of the velocity potential is here very easy .
Let , as in Art .
13 , the displacement be given by Then the velocity potential is with when Therefore whence the principal term is Hence as before Therefore Therefore time of pulsation and therefore varies slowly with the energy .

