IV .
Remarks on a Fragment of an old Roman Inscription lately found in the North of England , and transcribed by the Curious and Learned Dr. James Jurin , M. D. and Reg. Soc. S. OUR worthy Member , Dr. Jurin , having resided for some time at Newcastle upon Tine , had the Curiosity to travel the Country between that and Carlisle , in order to observe what might occur worth notice in the Remains of the Ruins of the famous Picts .
Wall , built by the Romans to secure themselves , against the Incursions of the Natives of that part of Britain they cared not to conquer .
In this Perambulation , besides many other valuable Observations which in time he may be prevailed with to bestow on the Public , Dr. Jurin saw and transcribed no less than Twenty Roman Inscriptions , some of which we had formerly received from others , but many of them wholly new ; among them the following , which , tho ' broken and in great part illegible , suffices to fix the Name of one of the Ancient Nations of Britain , that has hitherto been greatly miscalled .
It is thus , CIVITATECAT VVILLAV A ' ORV M. ~~ O~S CDlO and is to be seen on the Wall , about two Miles West from Lenercross .
Abby , near the Confines of our two Northermost Counties .
Here it is observable , that the last A of the second Line has a Mark that follows it , not unlike to the last Stroke of an N ; and if instead of ~ we put N , we shall read it CIVITATE CATVVILLAVNORVM , which we cannot doubt to have been the true Name of that People which Dion .
Cassius , Lib. LX .
calls ~~ , and Ptolomy , in his Geography , Lib. II .
cap. 3 .
more falsely , ~ ; the first ~ by producing the transverse Stroke having been mistaken for ~ .
This Nation appears by Dion to have been more potent than their Neighbours the Dobuni ( whom he calls Boduni ) and had , according to Ptolomy , Verolamium for their Capital , which it is most probable , was the Cassivellauni oppidum of Caesar .
So that it should seem Cassivellaunus King of these Catuvillauni when Caesar invaded Britain , either gave his Name to his People , or took theirs .
But he was no doubt the most potent Prince at that time in Britain , since by common Consent of the rest , he was made General of their united Forces , in defence of their Country 's Cause against the Romans .

