Investigation of the Powers of the prismatic Colours to heat and illuminate Objects ; with Remarks , that prove the different Refrangibility of radiant Heat .
To which is added , an Inquiry into the Method of viewing the Sun advantageously , with Telescopes of large Apertures and high magnifying Powers .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Part I. Read March 27 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 255 .
] After recommending a cautious circumspection in admitting specious appearances and plausible inferences in our researches both after physical and moral truth , the Doctor acknowledges that a general diffidence of this nature had raised a doubt in his mind , that the power of heating and illuminating objects is not equally distributed among the various coloured rays .
This surmise received some confirmation from the different sensations he experienced on viewing the sun with his large telescopes , and through various combinations of differently coloured glasses .
With some of these combinations he felt a sensation of heat , though he had but little light ; while others gave much light , with scarce any degree of heat .
Suspecting hence that perhaps certain coloured rays may be more apt to occasion heat , while others , on the contrary , may be more fit for vision , he resolved to put this conjecture to the test of experiments .
The first set of these experiments relate to the heating power of coloured rays .
They were made by admitting successively each differently coloured ray of a prismatic spectrum , through a proper aperture in a pasteboard , on a thermometer whose bulb was blackened , while another similar thermometer , at a certain distance , showed the temperature of the ambient air .
The general results here were , that the temperature , or rather the power of heating of the red ray , is greater than any other , bearing a proportion to that of the green ray as 9 to 4 , and to the violet , the least calorific , as 13 to 4 .
The next series of experiments was on the illuminating power of coloured rays .
These were simply made by viewing through a microscope certain opaque bodies , consisting of minute particles , and illuminated successively by different coloured rays .
These substances were red , green , and black paper , a piece of brass , a nail , and a guinea .
The uncommon variegated appearances of the metals , and especially of the iron nails , occasioned by their very minute and differently arranged particles , is here mentioned both as an object of admiration , and as singularly conducive to the purposes of the present inquiry ; the greater or smaller number of these particles that became discernible by the different coloured rays affording a kind of scale of comparison which led to the inferences here laid down .
These general inferences are , that the red-making rays are very far from having the illuminating power in any eminent degree ; that the orange possesses more of it than the red , and the yellow still more ; that the maximum of illumination lies in the brightest yellow or palest green ; that the green itself is nearly equally bright with the yellow ; but that , from the full deep green , the illuminating power decreases very sensibly , the blue being nearly upon a par with the red , while the violet is still more , and the purple the most deficient of any .
From a collective view and a due contemplation of these well established facts , it is inferred , that perhaps they may lead to the discovery of different chemical properties in the different coloured rays ; and that the various degrees of heat in different coloured flames will probably be fully explained on the principles that may be deduced from them .
Here follows a section in which the author advances a position , that radiant heat is of different refrangibility , and that it is subject to the laws of the dispersion arising from this different refrangibility .
We perceive from the drift of his arguments here advanced , that he inclines in favour of a distinction between calorific rays and colorific light , )both being liable to refraction , but under different angles , and hence probably possessed of different momenta .
This , if admitted , will apply to the invisible heat of red-hot iron gradually cooled till it ceases to shine , and likewise affords a solution of the reflection of invisible heat by concave mirrors .
We come next to an application of the result of the foregoing observations to the method of viewing the sun advantageously , with telescopes of large apertures and high magnifying powers .
It is well known , that even with the naked eye , and much less with telescopes of large apertures , the sun cannot be viewed without a darkening apparatus .
Dr. Herschel had repeatedly used red glasses for this purpose ; but always found , that though the lustre was thereby sufficiently abated , yet they did not prevent an irritation on the eye , which was manifestly the effect of heat .
This induced him to make experiments with glasses of various other colours , the result of which was , that , as might have been inferred from the above investigation , dark-green glasses are the most efficacious for intercepting the red or more calorific rays , and will therefore answer one of the purposes of the darkening apparatus .
But as in viewing the sun we have , besides the heat , also its splendour to contend with , further trials were made to obviate this inconvenience : and for this purpose , common smoked glasses were found the most efficacious .
Some directions are here given for smoking glasses uniformly , and in the most convenient manner .
From a series of telescopic experiments respecting this darkening apparatus , which concludes the paper , we learn , that as the heat will often crack the glasses when placed at or near the focus of the pencils of rays , a safer and more advantageous way of applying them is to place them before and near the small speculum , or immediately behind the second eye-glass .
In this last position a single dark-green glass was found of great utility ; but a deep blue glass , with a blueishgreen smoked one upon it , was still preferable : the sun appeared of a whiter colour than with any other composition , and the sensation of heat was by no means inconvenient .

