Another Account of the same Subject , Englished out of the French Journal des Scavans , printed at Paris the 22th of June 1671 .
THe New Star , which Don Anthelme , a Carthusian of Dyon , hath lately discovered * , is one of the rarest Appearances observed this good while .
As this person contemplated the Heavens at night , June 20th of the last year , desirous to discover that admirable Star , which hath appeared and disappeared twice since the beginning of this Century in the Constellation of the * See Numb.65.p.2092 .
Where the time mentioned of the first discovery of this Star , differs from that of the relation of this Journal , and is doubtless hence the Swan * ; he perceived near the same Constellation a Star of the Third Magnitude , which he had never yet observed .
He presently signified it to the Company which assembleth in the Library of the King : And divers of that Assembly having beheld the Heavens about the end of June and the beginning of July , took notice , that there was indeed about the Beak of the Swan a New Star of the third magnitude , not to be met with in any Catalogue of Astronomers , although many other neighbouring Stars , that are much smaller , be exactly marked by them .
It was scituate as appears in the following figure * .
* Which is that in Pectore Cygni .
* See Fig. 2 .
IZ Lyra .
Nova-stella The Obliquity of the Ecliptic supposed to be 231/ 2 degrees , the Longitude of this Star , according to the Observation of Mr. Picard , was 1~ .
55~ .
of Aquarius .
The right Ascension 293 .
33 .
The Boreal Latitude 47 .
28 .
And the Declination 26 .
33 .
It came to the Meridian after the Star in the Beak of the Swan 16~.44~ .
And before the lucid Star of the Eagle 0 .
27 .
It was distant from the great Star of the Constellation of Lyra 18~ .
39.40 .
From the Beak of the Swan 3 .
47 .
30 .
And from the Tail of the Swan 20 .
54 .
30 .
But that which is further remarkable , is , that in the beginning of July * this Star was observed to decrease .
In the night of July 3d , it appeared yet of the Third magnitude , but her Light was sensibly fainter .
In the night of the 11th of the same month , she scarce appeared of the Fourth magnitude .
In the night of August 10th , she was but of the Fifth .
And she hath ever since decreased still , so that at last she became so small that she was seen no more .
* Compare Numb. 66 .
p.2028 .
And so she hath remained for six months without showing her self , and we could not discover her again till the night of March 17th last , when Don Anthelme spied her in the very same place , where she was the year before , and found , that she was of the Fourth magnitude .
The Assembly that meets in the Kings Library , having notice thereof , several of them did observe this Star in the night of the 2d of April last , finding her in the self same place where they had seen her the precedent year .
The 3d of the same month M. Cassini found her greater than the two Stars of the Third magnitude that are below in the Constellation of Lyra , but a little smaller than that in the Beak of Cygnus .
The 4th of the same month , she appeared to him almost as great and much more radiant than that of the Beak of the Swan .
The 9th of the same , he found her a little diminish't ; and almost equal to the greatest of the two Stars that are below in Lyra .
The 12th , she was equal to the least of these two Stars .
The 15th , he perceived that she increased , and he found her equal , the second time , to the greatest of these two Stars .
From the 16th unto the 27th , she appeared of different magnitudes , being sometimes equal to the biggest of these two Stars , sometimes equal to the least , and now and then between both .
But the 27th and 28th , she was become as big as the Star in the Swan 's beak : The 30th , she appeared a little clearer .
And the first six days in May , she was greater .
The 15th of May she was seen smaller than the same Star .
The 16th , she was in bigness between the two Stars that are below in Lyra : And ever since she hath still diminished .
Thus this Star hath been twice in her greatest splendour , first on the 4th of April ; and the second time , in the beginning of May : Which we read not to , have ever happened to any other Star .
As far as can be judged from the few Observations made of this Star , it is likely she is returning about Ten months unto the same appearance ; whereas that in the Whale 's Neck makes its revolution in Eleven months .
As for the Star in the Swans Breast , we have as yet no certain knowledge of the period of her revolution ; yet one may assure , that she takes no less than Fourteen years to finish it .
The Discoveries , that have been made in the Heavens this last age , do evince , that Changes are not so rare there , as formerly was believed .
If that was true , what Pliny saith , that Hipparchus , on the occasion of a New Star he perceived , made an Enumeration of all those which appeared at that time , there would not be any one Constellation , in which some change were not found since that time , in regard there are few , wherein there be not found more Stars now than that Astronomer hath noted in them .
But as the little assurance we have of the exactness of Hipparchus his Catalogue gives us cause to believe , that many Stars , which were not in that Catalogue , were yet in the Heavens ; so we may well grant , that some of those , that have been observed since , have not appeared always .
For , not to speak of the Stars , that have been seen in the Constellation of Cassiopea , in the Neck of the Whale , in the Breast of the Swan , and in Serpentarius , Monsieur Cassini hath discovered many other little ones * , which may very well be presumed to be New .
For example , he hath observed one of the Fourth magnitude , and two of the Fifth in Cassiopea , where it is certain they were not seen before , many Astronomers having exactly reckoned up the very smallest Stars of that Constellation , and yet not one of them mentioned those three .
He hath discovered Two others , towards the Beginning of the Constellation of Eridanus , where we were sure they were not yet about the end of the Year 1664 , considering that this place of the Heavens , where passed the then appearing Comet , was diligently beheld by many , who perceived divers other small Stars , without observing those two .
The same hath also observed , towards the Arctick Pole Four of the Fifth or Sixth magnitude , which Astronomers , that always have their Eyes upon that place , would not have failed to note , if they had there appeared before .
* Compare those , discovered by ~ M. Hevelius , in Numb. 65 .
p.2091 .
Nor are we to wonder at it , that we see now more Stars in the Heavens than there appeared formerly , seeing there appeared those formerly , which are seen no more now .
For M. Cassini hath observed , that the Star , which Bayerus puts near that which he marketh in the Figure of Ursa minor , appears no more ; that that , which is marked A in the Figure of Andromeda , is also disappeared ; that in lieu of that , which is marked v , at the knee of the same figure , there are two others more Nordward ; and that that , which is noted ~ , is very much diminished , The Star , which Tycho places at the extremity of Andromeda 's Chain , and calls it of the Fourth magnitude , is now so small that one can scarce see it : And that which is in his Catalogue the 20th of the Constellation of Pisces , is now no more seen ; unless you will say , that it is gone down lower than four degrees , to the place marked o in the Figure of Baverus * .
But we are not therefore presently to say , that the Stars , that have been lately discovered , were not in the Heavens before , although they were not seen there .
For , as we now know , that there are Stars , which appear and disappear from time to time , so we have cause to suspect , that most of the Stars , that were not seen formerly , or that are seen no more now , or are found diminish't , are of the same nature with the Star in the Whal 's Neck , and do not cease to be in the Heavens , though they there appear not .
It is also possible , that these New Stars not only were in the Heavens , but even appeared there before they were taken notice of as New ones : And it is very probable , that it is also with most Stars , as with that in the Neck of the Whale , which was not observed at first , but when it was already of the third magnitude ; although it hath been since found , that it is not really so great when it begins to appear , but that , being very small in the beginning , it increases insensibly until it come to that greatness .
* We cannot omit taking notice here of what was communicated to the R. Society , about the same subject , in a Letter of April 30 .
1670 .
by Signor Montanari , the I earned Professor of the Mathematicks in Boxonia , in these words : Multa possem certe nova de Calo Vobis tradere , quae a multis annis observo , atque Firmamento meo Instabili exornando at propediem evulgando suppeditavero ; ` ed unum , quod cateris admirabilius est , proseram .
Desunt in Caelo duae Srellae Seeundae Magnitudinis in Puppi Navis ejus ue Transtris , Bayero ~ &amp; ~ , prope Canem majorem , a me &amp; aliis , occasion praesertim Cometae A. 1664 .
observata &amp; recognitae .
Earum Disparitionem cui Anno debeam , non novi ; hoc indubium , quod a die 10 .
April .
1668 .
no vest gium quidem illarum adesse amplius observo ; caeteris circa eas , etiam quartae &amp; quintae magnitudinis , immotis .
Plura de aliarum stellarum mutationibus , plusquam centenis , at non tanti ponderis annotavi , &amp;c. However , these Phenomena deserve always to be carefully observed by all Astronomers .

