]\gt ; 343 V. On the of Magnetic Rotation of Light in Bisulphide of Carbon .
By Lord RAYLEIGH , M.A. , D. C.L. , F.R. Received December 29 , 1884\mdash ; Read January 15 , 1885 .
1 .
THE phenomenon , to which the present investigation relates , is FARADAY'S discovery of the " " Magnetisation of Light or in more usual language the rotation of the plane of polarisation of light in traversing certain media exposed to powerful magnetic force .
One of the characteristics of this rotation is that it takes place in the same absolute direction which ever way the light may be travelling , differing in this respect from the rotation which occurs without the operation of magnetic force in quartz and many organic liquids .
Advantage of this property has been taken by FARADAY and others in order to magnify the effect .
By reflecting the light backwards and forwards it is possible to make it traverse several times a field of force whose length is limited .
A consequence remarkable from the theoretical point of view is the possibility of an arrangement in which the otherwise general optical law of reciprocity shall be violated .
Consider , for example , a column of diamagnetic medium exposed to such a force that the rotation is , and situated between two NICOLS , whose principal planes are inclined to one another at .
Under these circumstances light passing one way is completely stopped by the second NICOL , but light passing the other way is completely transmitted .
A source of light at one point A would thus be visible at a second point , when a source at would be invisible at ; a state of things at first sight inconsistent with the second law of thermodynamics .
2 .
It is known that the rotation may be considered to be due to the propagation at slightly different ocities of the two circularly polarised components , into which plane polarised light may be resolved ; and it is interesting to consider what difference of velocity our instrumental appliances enable us to detect .
retardation amounting to one wave length , of one circularly polarised component relatively to the other would correspond to a rotation of the plane of polarisation through .
If we can observe a rotation of one minute , we are in a position to detect a retardation of .
If be the thickness traversed , and the two velocities of propagation , the relative retardation is Sv/ v. To take an example , suppose that inches , inch ; so that if @v/ v exceed the fact might be detected.-k It appears therefore that we are able to observe extraordinarily minute relative differences in the velocit.ies of propagation of the two circularly polarised rays . .
Not .
Sci. Trip .
Ex. , 1883 .
3 .
The laws of the phenomenon were ated in detail by VERDET , proved that in a given medium the rotation between any two points on a ray of light of given kind is proportional to the difference of magnetic potential at those points .
When the path of the ray is singly or doubly curved , the rotation is to be estimated upon principles similar to those applicable to twis curved rods .
4 .
Absolute determinations of nuagnetic rotation in bisulphide of carbon have been made by and by H. BECQUEREL , S whose results differ , however , by about 9 per cent. The former obtained his magnetic force by means of an electric current circulating a great many times round the column of .
This column being a good deal longer than the coil , the electromagnetic effect is approximately determined by the strength of the current and the number of turns .
Of these data the first was found by a comparison with ( the horizontal component of terrestrial magnetism ) .
The number of windings in the coil was determined , not by a simple counting , but a posteriori by an electrical process .
In M. BECQUEREL'S experiments the magnetic force was that of the earth acting on a column of more than 3 metres in length .
The very small effect ( obtained by reversal of the apparatus in azimuth ) was lgmented by causing the light to pass the tube 3 or 5 times , but even with 5 passages the double rotation amounted to only about 30 minutes .
M. BECQUEREL regards his determination for sodium light as accurate to within 1 per cent. , which would be indeed a wonderful result considering the smallness of the rotation .
5 .
It is important to observe that great care is required in order to define with sufficient accuracy the kind of light employed .
Since the rotation is approximately proportional to , a change from one sodium line to the other would make a difference of two parts per thousand .
Both of the above-mentioned experimenters started with white light .
GORDON threw a spectrum upon a screen , perforated with a slit , the position of which was adjusted to correspond with the thallium line ; while BECQUEREL corrected his results indirectly by a subsequent comparison between the effects of the more mixed light used by him and that emitted by sodium .
Considering that the employment of white light involved very elaborate arrange ments for analysis ( according to wave length , in order to avoid errors exceeding in magnitude those likely to be encountered in the polarimetric or electric determinations , I decided to use light actually emitted from sodium vapour .
The sodium chloride was held by a spoon of platinum gauze in the flame of a ordinary and TAIT'S ' Natural Philosophy , ' SS 119-123 .
When polarised light passes from one medium to another , e.g. , from air to glass , the plane of polarisation is in general twisted without the operation of any magnetic force .
This effect , however , depends upon a part of the light being diverted by reflection , and would disappear if the transition from one medium to the other were gradual , i.e. , occupied a stratum a few wave-lengths thick .
( See Proc. Math. Soc. , vol. xi .
, No. 159 ) .
Phil. Trans. 1877 , p. 1 .
S Ann. .
Chimie , 1882 .
ROTATION OF LIGHT IN BISULPHIDE OF CARBON .
BUNSEN burner ( fig. 1 , A ) .
As in Mr. GLAZEBROOK'S optical investigations , the evaporation of the salt and the temperature of the flame were stimulated by a jet of oxygen gas , brought in laterally and caused to play round the gauze .
A. BUNSEN burner .
B. Mirror with slit .
C. Back mirror .
D. Direct vision prism .
E. Collimating lens .
F. Polarising NICOL .
G. Sugar cell .
H. Tube of bisulphide of carbon .
I. Screen ( blackened inside ) .
J. Analysing NICOL .
At the close of the experiments I examined the light thus obtained with a powerful spectroscope , and found that under the influence of the oxygen the originally narrow bright lines dilate almost to the point of contact , thus forming a bright field upon the dark -lines are seen with beautiful definition .
Although the distribution of light appeared to be tolerably symmetrical , it is a question to what degree of accuracy the mean quality of this light can be identified with that coming from midway between the -lines .
Probably we shall be safe in estimating that the error from this cause is well below The bright part of the flame being much larger than is required , a screen ( B ) , perforated with a slit , may conveniently be interposed .
In this course there are two advantages .
It allows us to purify the light from rays of other refrangibilities ( of which there is always a sensible accompaniment , both red and blue ) , by use of a direct-vision prism ) .
Again , by making this screen of looking-glass , from which a narrow strip of silvering is removed , and by backin the flame with a parallel mirror ( C ) , we gain by repeated reflections to and fro , an important increase of illumination .
The success of the polarimetry is very dependent upon the intensity of the light , but there must be also a reasonable steadiness .
Several arrangements of flame which at first promised well failed in the latter requirement .
6 , The rays from the slit , after purification by the direct vision prism , are rendered parallel by a collimating lens ( E ) and pass into the polarising NICOL ( F ) .
The polarimeter employed is on the principle of LAURENT , but according to a suggestion of the half-wave plate of quartz is replaced by a cell ( G ) containing syrop , so anged that the two halves of the field of view are subjected to small rotations differing by about .
The difference of thicknesses necessary is best obtained by introducing into the cell a piece of thick glass , the upper edge of which divides the * Phil. lag .
, July , 1880 .
field into two parts .
The upper half of the field is thus rotated by a thickness of syrop equal to the entire width of the cell ( say inch ) , but in the lower half of the field part of the thickness of syrop is replaced by glass , and the rotation is correspondingly less .
With a pretty strong syrop a difference of may be obtained with a glass inch thick .
For the best results the operating boundary should be a true plane nearly perpendicular to the face .
The pieces used by me , however , were not worked , being simply cut with a diamond from thick plate glass ; and there was usually no difficulty in finding a part of the edge flat for the purpose , i.e. , capable of exhibiting a field of view sharply divided into two parts .
I had expected to be troubled with depolarisation , especially in the thick , but a small piece thus cut out of a large plate is relieved from most of the strain to it was originally subject .
Probably more care would be required in experiments where a strong white light could be used ; but by previously testing the rather thin plates used for the sugar cell and for closing the tube , I was able to secure a field of view either half of which under the actual circumstances could be made quite dark by suitable orientation of the analysing NICOL .
By this use of sugar half-shade polarimeters may be made of large dimensions at short notice and at very little cost .
The syrop should be filtered ( hot ) through paper , and the cell must be closed to prevent evaporation .
7 .
On leaving the sugar cell the light entered the column of bisulphide of carbon ( H ) .
To contain the liquid two tubes of rass were employed at various times , the ends being closed with plates of worked glass cemented to the metal with a mixture of glue and treacle .
Near one end these tubes were provided with a lateral ( vertical ) branch , closed with a cork , through which passed the stem of the thermometer used for observing the temperature of the .
The length of the larger tube ( used in Series I. and II .
) was inches , and the diameter about inch .
The length of the smaller tube ( used in Series II1 .
) was 29765 inches , and the diameter 1 inch .
When , as in Series I. , it was wished to cause the light to traverse the tube more than once , mirrors were necessary at the ends of the tube .
They consisted of plates of thin looking-glass , from which part of the silvering was removed , and by means of alittle glycerine they were brought into optical contact with the plates by which the tube closed .
This arrangement was simple , and had the further advantage of practically annuIling some troublesome reflections ; but the want of means of adjustment rendered it necessary that the closing plates should themselves be pretty accurately parallel .
8 .
The internal diameter of the ebonite tube , upon which the helix was wound ( S18 ) , was about inch , and it was intended to utilise the annular space between the ebonite and the brass as ajacket , through which water at the temperature of the room nIight be made to circulate .
This arrangement , however , failed utterly .
Within about 10 minutes of the closing of the circuit of the helix , the definition was lost , and nothing further could be done until after a long interval of repose .
The water-jacket ROTATION OF LIGHT IN BISULPHIDE OF CARBON .
was then abolished , and the available space filled with paper wrapped pretty tightly round the tube .
This effected a great improvement , enhanced still further in the later experiments of Series III .
, in which , by reduction of the diameter of the tube , wider space became available for heat insulation .
The disturbance by conduction of heat from the wire to the remained , however , the worst feature of the experiments , and could not be obviated without a fundamental alteration in the apparatus .
Probably the best arrangement would be a water-jacket next the wire , and a good thickness of paper or other insulator between the water and the 9 , The bisulphide of carbon purified by treatment with corrosive sublimate and grease with subsequent distillation ( according to the procedure advocated by BECQUEREL ) , until most of the unpleasant odour had disappeared .
The transparency is much greater than is readily ( if at all ) obtainable with water , provided proper precautions are taken to avoid exposure to light .
After being acted upon by light , the attacks brass and becomes rapidly opaque .
In this respect it would be an advantage to replace the metal tube by one of glass .
10 .
The analyser consisted , in some experiments , of a NICOL ( J ) , and in others of a double image prism , and was mounted in a circle made by the Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company .
In order that a rotation of the plane of polarisation may be correctly indicated by the difference of the two circle readings , it is necessary that the axis of rotation should coincide with the direction of the light .
This requirement is , however , not very easily satisfied .
At the commencement of a series of experiments the adjustment was made with the aid of a telescope and cross wires temporarily substituted for the NICOL , but during the course of a set of readings the passage of heat into the liquid tended to make the upper strata warmer than the lower , and thus to bend the rays into a different direction .
It is known that the error arising from maladjustment in this respect is in great part eliminated by reading the NICOL always in both the positions ( differing by about ) which give extinction or ( in the halfshade arrangement ) equality of illumination .
This plan was constantly but it is not clear that the whole error can be thus got rid of .
It occurred to me that another term in the harmonic expansion of the error would be destroyed by use of a double image prism read in four positions distant about Experiment showed that in spite of the glare of the unextinguished image , good readings could be obtained after a little practice , and the comparison of the results arrived at in this way tends to show that the error is not wholly eliminated in the mean of two readings taken in positions differing by But the matter could be much better investigated with a simplified apparatus and the use of a strong white light .
In Series II .
and III .
, when the ight traversed the tube but once , no magnification was necessary , and the eye was applied immediately behind the analyser .
In * ' Sir Theory des Polaristrobometer und des drehenden NICOLS .
D. SAND BAICIIUYZLN .
POGG .
Ann. , cxlv .
, 259 , 1872 .
" " Notes on NICOL'S Prism GLAZnBROOK , Phil. Mag. , October , 1880 .
Series I. , the apparent magnitude of the field was much less , and an magnifying about twice , was employed between the analyser and the eye .
11 .
The setting of the NICOL ( or double-image prism ) by adjustment of the match between the two parts of the field presented by the half-shade apparatus was facilitated by a device that may be found useful .
" " In addition to the principal helix , the tube was embraced by an auxiliary coil of insulated wire , through which could be led the current from a LECLANCHE ' cell .
This current was controlled by a reversing key under the hand of the observer , who was thus able to rock the plane of polarisation backwards and forwards through a emall angle about its normal position .
The amount of the rocking being suitably chosen , the comparison of the three appearances ( two with auxiliary current , and one without ) serves to exclude some imperfect matches that might otherwise have been allowed to pass 12 .
Apart from the effect of heat upon the , the working of the optical parts was fairly satisfactory .
The following zero readings taken without the current on June 4 , 1884 , will give an idea of the sort of accuracy attained .
The analyser was a double image prism , and was read in all four positions , the being made three times .
It appears that an error of 3 or 4 minutes may occur in a single setting .
13 .
I now pass to the description of the electrical arrangements .
The magnetic force depends upon the helix and upon the strength of the current , and we will take these elements in order .
The helix .
The wire is wound upon an ebonite tube , the outside surface of which was true in the lathe , and is kept in its place laterally by ebonite flanges screwed upon the tube .
The distance between the flanges , equal to the length of the helix , is inches ; but the tube itself projects some inches beyond the flanges , and when it was desired to use an internal water-jackeb , could be further prolonged by additional lengths of brass tube .
In order to give better opportunity for testing the insulation , on which the colTectness of the final results is entirely dependent , it was decided to wind on two wires simultaneously , which should be in contact with one another throughout their entire * ' ' Preliminary Note on the Constant of Electro-magnetic Rotation of Light in Bisulphide of Carbon Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. 37 , p. 146 ( June 19 , 1884 ) .
ROTATION OF LIGHT IN BISULPHIDE OF CARBON .
length .
The operation was performed on December 14-15 , 1883 , with triply-covered wire of diameter about inch , and no particular difficulty was experienced .
The revolutions of the ebonite tube , mounted in the lathe , were taken with all care by an engine counter , and amounted to 1842 , so that the total number of windings is 3684 .
The internal diameter of the helix is inches , and the external diameter is 4 13 inches .
By endeavouring to force a current from one wire to the other we obtain a very severe , though of course not absolutely complete , test of the insulation .
The resistance between the two wires varied with the hygrometric condition of the silk , which was not impregnated with paraffin .
At first it was not much over 2 megohms , but latterly reached 6 or 8 megohms , and was thus abundantly sufficient .
14 .
As a further test observations were made of the external effect of the helix upon a suspended magnet , when a powerful current was passed in .
one direction through first wire , and in the opposite direction through the second .
If the positions of the two wires could be treated as identical , the external effect ought everywhere to vanish .
In consequence , however , of the fact that one wire lies throughout on the same side of the other , the compensation could not be expected to be complete , except when the suspended magnet is equidistant from the two ends .
Experiment with the magnet of a refl.ecting galvanometer showed ) the effect , in fact , varied as the magnet was displaced , but even in the symmetrical position there was a perceptible outstanding differential effect .
In order to eliminate the influence of other parts of the circuit , the readings referred only to the deflection of the needle as the current was reversed in the helix ; and the scale of Qensitiveness was obtained by repeating the observations after altering the connexions of the two wires , so that the current circulated the same way round both , and after insertion of a high resistance by which the intensity of the current was reduced in a known proportion .
From this it appeared that the differential effect of the two wires ( with a given current ) was of the combined effect .
This fraction is tolerably small , but I had expected to find it smaller still .
It seems probable that the incompleteness of compensation is due to a small difference in the mean diameter of the windings in the two cases .
To throw light upon this I took careful measures of the resistances of the two wires .
Although they had originally fo1med one length , their resistances differed by as much as part , that of the wire which had shown itself least effective being , and of the other .
If , as it seems plausible to do , we attribute the diflerence of resistance to difference of diameter , this actual difference must amount to inch .
The mean diameter of the windings is about three inches ; and if the two wires were wound upon a smooth cylinder of this diameter , the difference in the diameter of the windings would be of the whole .
As this estimate would be increased were we to take into account the fact that each winding really sits upon two windings of the layer underneath , and that these cannot be practically in actual contact , we may perhaps LORD RAYLEIGH ON THE CONSTANT oy MAGNETIC consider the small anomalous differential effect lupon the external magnet to be sufficiently explained by the observed difference of resistances .
Correction for fnite length .
15 .
If the tube were infinitely long the difference of potentials at its ends due to the unit current in one winding would be .
But on account of the finiteness of the length a correction is whose approximate amount is given in GORDON'S paper .
Considering , in the first place , one layer of windings of radius , we know that the external effect is the same as would be produced by a uniform distribution of imaginary magnetic matter over the ends , positive ( say ) over and negative over , the superficial density being equal to the number ( m ) of windings per unit length .
The potential at of the matter on is , or approximately .
Similarly the potential at for the matter on Bb is , so that bltogether the potential at for this layer of windings is , in which denotes the whole number of windings in the layer .
This result has now to be integrated so as to represent the effect of the helix , whose inner and outer radii we may call and .
The mean value of is .
and that of is .
ROTATION OF LIGHT IN BISULPHIDE OF CARBON .
Thus if be the whole number of windings on the helix , the difference of potential from to corresponding to the unit current is In the present case ( inches ) , from which we get In the remainder of the calculation we have to distinguish the two tubes .
For the ffist inches inches ; and for the second inches inches .
Hence for the first tube we have and for the second the correction for finite length thus somewhat exceeding one-half per cent. 16 .
We have now obtained the difference of potential at the ends of the column of due to the passage through the helix of unit current .
It yet remains to describe the means adopted for the measurement of the actual current in absolute measure .
In a former paper ' On the Electro-chemical Equivalent of Silver , and on the Absolute Electromotive Force of CLARK Cells it was shown how the E.M.F. of a CI , ARK cell was obtained by comparison with the difference of potentials at the extremities of a wire of known resistance , due to the passage of a current known either directly from its effect upon a current measuring apparatus , or ectly through the deposition of silver .
For the purposes of the present investigation this process was reversed , the * In the Preliminary the reducing factor for this tube was given .
The alteration is due to the use of more precise data in place of some quite rough measurements in round numbers on which , by an oversight , the first calculation was founded .
Phil. Trans. , 1884 , Part II .
, SS 35 , 36 , 38 .
3 ; .
CLARK cell itself being treated as a standard of , by which to determine the value of the current , which traversed the known resistance , and also the helix by which the magnetic rotation was produced .
The arrangements differed so little from those claborately described in the paper referred to , that it seems unnecessary to enter into the matter at length .
If the reader will refer to Plate 17 , fig. 1 , he will understand the electrical connexions , and he may suppose the CUtTent-measuring apparatus EGF , replaced by the magnetising helix .
In point of fact this helix was situated in another room at a distance from the E.M.F. compensator and its galvanometer T. The direction of the current in the helix was reversed by a mercury key of the rocker pattern , and care had to be taken that at this moment the galvanometer contact was open .
The general nature of the arrangement will be sufficiently understood when it is said that the want of balance between the E.M.F. of the CLARK and that at the terminals of the resistance was made up by E.M.F. , taken from an auxiliary circuit , the value of which was afterwards expressed in terms of the CLARK .
Denoting the force thus added or subtracted by , upon a scale according to which the force of the CLARK was , the actual difference of potential at the terminals of may be written 17 .
As it was intended to use currents of about one ampere , the resistance was made about ohms .
The construction was somewhat similar to that of the [ 4 ] described in S 33 of the former paper , but on account of the increase in the current to be carried , three wires of German silver were used in parallel .
The amount of heating was unimportant for the purposes of the present investigation .
The value of the was determined by comparison with a combination of three standard units , one ( taking the whole current ) , and two in parallel ( giving the ) .
At the resistance is .
At , which was adopted as the standard temperature for and for the CLARK , we have 18 .
In consequence of the heating of the copper wires , the current ( usually obtained from secondary cells ) fell off somewhat rapidly during a set of observations , and it was found convenient to take readings of the E.M.F. compensator simuItaneously with the adjustment of the polarimeter .
The former readings were taken by myself and the latter by Mrs. SIDGWICK , while bhe flame ( at which the optical observer should not look ) was regulated by an assistant , who also recorded the circle readings .
The procedure will be most easily explained by an example , for which purpose I take at random the observations of July 25 , recorded in Table II .
It will be seen that the cycle consisted of eight readings , four with positive and four with negative rotation of the plane of polarisation , and that this cycle is repeated three times .
The three readings under any one head vary in consequence of the diminution of the current as well as from errors of observation .
The value of at the beginning at the end Mean Thus in the first observation at , when the cycle reading was , the difference of potentials at the extremities of the was CLARK I. , the temperature of CLARK I. and of being For the mean double rotations in the four positions of the double image prism we have Mean .
7 Since all the effects are proportional to the current , it is sufficient to compare the mean rotation with the mean value of , 1413 ; so that the double rotation , or , corresponds to a difference of potentials equal to CLARK I. CLARK I. The double rotation that would have been found if the current had been just strong enough to balance CLARK I. ( at the actual temperature ) is 19 .
This result is a function of the temperatures of the and of as as of the ; and it is rather unfortunate that all three temperature corrections tell in the same direction .
A rise of the thermometer involves a rise in and a fall in the force of the standard cell , so that on both accounts the current giving the balance is diminished .
At the same time the smaller current acts less advantageously in ROTATION OF LIGHT IN BISULPHIDE OF CARBON .
producing rotation in consequence of the properties of the .
It will be convenient to postpone the last correction , and take first the corrections for temperature in and the E.M.F. of CLARK , which relate rather to the machinery for measuring the current , and which can be made from data obtained in .
previous investigations .
For this purpose C. is adopted as the stand rd temperature ; and the proportional corrections per degree are 00082 for the E.M.F. of CLARK and 00044 for the making altogether per degree .
For the observations of July 25 , the correction is therefore If we take as a standard current that which in traversing at would balance CLARK I. at , the double rotation of July 25 reduced so as to correspond with the standard current will be This rotation corresponds to the temperature of the .
To obtain comparable results we must reduce to a standard temperature , for which purpose we select According to BICHAT the rotation at may be expressed by the rotation at being taken as unity .
To obtain a more convenient formula , , applicable in the neighbourhood of , we may write .
Thus ; so that the coefficient for the correction is 00158 .
Hence , if the on July 25 had been at , we should have had Thus reduced the results for the observations of different days should agree together .
20 .
The results of all the observations ( other than preliminary ) which were thought worthy of reduction are exhibited in the accompanying tables , grouped in three series .
In Series I. , II .
the first tube was employed ; the principal difference between them being that in Series I. the light traversed the tube three times , while in Series IL the light passed but once .
It will be seen that in Series I. the actual double rotation varied from about to , and the currents from about ampere to 1 ampSre .
In Series II .
stronger currents were usually passed , amounting to about ampere , but the rotation was only about The extreme deviation from the mean is only about 4 per cent. , if we exclude the observations of May 29 , which owing to interruptionS and other causes were marked as unsatisfactory before reduction .
The NICOL was used as analyser in Series I. , and on June 3 of Series TI .
The remaining observations of Series II .
and the whole of Series IIL were taken with a double-image prism , read in all four positions as already explained by the example of July 25 .
For the observations of Series III .
the second tube was employed , with some improvements in the provision against the communication of heat .
The diminished diameter of the tube was the inducement to pass the light but once , though it would have been possible to work with three passages .
But when the rays skirt the walls of the tube , there is more disturbance from heat ; and , indeed , generally the advantage of augmented rotation is in great measure paid for by greater sensitiveness to deviation from optical uniformity .
Not only does the communication of heat disturb the definition , but it tends also to render the actual temperature uncertain .
During some of the more protracted sets of readings with the stronger currents there was a rise of nearly in the temperaturo of the ; and , although this rise was carefully watched , it is difficult to feel confident that the effective mean temperature can be determined with a less error than say of a degree .
Such an error would correspond to about in the final number .
To avoid increasing the uncertainty under this head the readings were often concluded , although the definition still remained satisfactory .
If the apparatus were to be designed afresh I should endeavour to guard more adequately against these disturbances , and it might then be possible to use five passages with advantage , more especially if by increasing the weight of the coil it were practicable to bring the double rotation up to about .
The determination of such a rotation with the double image prism would be free in high degree from the polarimetric errors considered in S10 .
But it is doubtful whether in the present state of science the additional accuracy would repay the labour involved .
21 .
It only rema , ins now to work out the results in absolute measure .
And first as to the value of the standard current , defined as that which , flowing through the [ 1S ] at , balances CLARK I. at the same temperature .
This value in amperes is expressed by dividing the E.M.F. of CLARK I. in B.A. volts ( see Table XI .
of former paper ) by the resistance of the in B.A. units .
Hence the standard current is ROTATION OF LIGHT IN BISULPHIDE OF CARBON .
ampe C.G.S. If the tube were infinitely long , the difference of magnetic potentials at its ends would be ; but in the case of the actual tubes we have introduce the correcting factors 99433 and 99353 ( S 15 ) .
Thus for the first tube , if be the rotation in minutes corresponding to difference of potential 1 C.G.S. , the whole actual double rotation for a single passage of the light will be From Series at this quantity is found to be , or , so that In like manner from Series .
we get For the second tube used in Series III .
we have to employ a slightly different correction for finite length .
We have The results of Series I. and III .
are thus in precise agreement , while that of Series II .
is about lower .
Ascribing a somewhat less importance to II .
in consequence of the smaller number of sets of observations , we may take as the final result of the investigation which gives the rotation in minutes in bisulphide of carbon at , corresponding to a difference of potential equal to 1 C.G.S. It should be noticed that the mean temperature of the observations was so nearly that the result as given depends scarcely at all upon BICHAT'S formula for the dependence of the rotation upon temperature .
22 .
M. BECQUEREL gives as his for C. minute .
To find the rotation at , this must be multiplied by 9767 according to BICHAT'S formula : and as BECQUEREL'S observations were in fact made at about , this reduction does not introduce , but rather removes , an extraneous element .
Thus according to BECQUEREL\mdash ; minute , differing by about 7 per cent. from the value found by me .
The comparison with GORDON is more uncertain , inasmuch as his observations were LORD RAyLEIGH THE CONSTANT OF MAGNETIC made on light of the refrangibility of the thallium line .
he corrected* result for this light is in circular measure , or 05238 minute .
To pass to sodium we may use a formula given by and VERDET , according to which the rotation for different wave is proportional to being the refractive index .
At this rate the 05238 minute for thallium would be 04163 minute for sodium .
The temperature was not directly observed by GORDON , but was estimated to be about C. Assuming this to be correct , the value for would be 0413 minute , or about 2 per cent. less than according to my determinations .
Notes on rimetry in general .
The problem of the po]arimeter is how best to render evident the rotation through a smadl angle of the plane of polarisation of light of brightness .
The effect of the rotation is to introduce light of amplitude , or , polarised in the perpendicular plane , and it is this which must be made to produce a recognisable change .
By the use of a NICOL , or double-image prism , adjusted to the original plane , the light of brightness may be isolated , but , as will be proved presently , this is not the best method of rendering its existence evident .
From the preceding mode of statement it is clear that the accuracy obtainable in determining the plane of polarisation increases indefinitely with the brightness of the , and is in fact proportional to the square root of that brightness .
Again we see that little is to be expected from such devices as that of FIZEAU , in which the rotation is magnified by causing the light to pass obliquely through a pile of glass plates .
The brightness of the light polarised in the perpendicular plane can only be diminished by such treatment , and the increase of rotation , being due merely to weakening of the first component , is of no value .
The arrangements to be adopted depend for their justification upon the physiological law of the perception of differences of brightness .
If denote the difference oi ' sensations , corresponding to two degrees of and , we have S in which is a certain constant brightness , supposed to depend chiefly upon the proper or internal light of the eye , but to which may be added the effect of light *Mr .
GORDON'S result was originally given at double its proper value .
Ann. .
Chim .
, , 1877 , p. 78 .
This point is insisted upon in an excellent paper by LIPPICH ( Wien .
Ber .
, 85 , 9 Feb. , 1882 ) , which has lately come to my notice .
S HELMHOLTZ : 'Physiologische Optik , ' S 27 .
ROTATION OF LIGHT IN BISULPHIDE OF CARBON .
diffised by imperfect translucency of the optical apparatus .
If denote the smallest perceptible difference , the value of is in favourable circumstances as low as or , which means that with a sufficient total ightness differences of this amount may be apparent to observation .
Let us now consider the values of corresponding to different methods of procedure .
If the analysing NICOL be adjusted for extinction of the original light , the comparison is between the brightness which cannot be got rid of and Near the limit of discrimination , to which case we may confine our attention , is small relatively to thus we may take The procedure just considered is that which would naturally be adopted to render evident a small quantity of light of given amount , viz. , to isolate it and compare it with the best attainable darkness .
But in the present problem the circumstances are peculiar in that we are able to deal with phases .
Now if we regard the amplitude of the feeble light as given , putting , we may produce more effect from it by combining it with other light in the same phase of amplitude ( ) than by isolating it .
The comparison is then between brightnesses and , or as is very small , between .
Thus in which is written The light of amplitude is obtained in the simplest possible manner by merely rotating the analysing NICOL through a small angle , and the only question is how to exhibit the light wluch shall not be affected , when is changed to .
For this purpose we may divide the field of view into two halves with an oblique mirror in which is seen by reflection a feeble light , of the same colour and coming ultimately from the same source .
It is possible that an instrument upon this principle might be made to work satisfactorily , but the half-shade polarimeters of JELLET and LAURENT seem to be in most respects preferable .
In them the comparison is between and so that representing twice as great a sensibility .
The only thing to be said upon the other side is that the division line in these instruments can hardly be made as invisible as the sharp edge of a mirror may be .
* We may imagine the presentation of the two brightnesses to be consecutive , or more favourably that both are seen at once , half the field of view being occupied by a black body seen after reflection in an oblique mirror , whose edge forms the dividing line .
Readings would of course be taken in both the positions ( one on either side of extinction ) which give a match with the comparison light .
In these formulae may be chosen at pleasure by suitable adjustments of the polarising arrangements .
In order to get the best result , must be made a maximum by variatior of and being treated as constants .
The maximum occurs when , and its value in the last case is Taking , which is probably about as small as can be expected in practice , we have for the least perceptible value of whereas without the half-shade arrangement , and with a NICOL simply to extinction of the original light , so that According to these numbers the half-shade arrangement would have a teufold superiority , a result not fully borne out in practice .
In explanation of this it is important to notice that the procedure in the absence of a half-shade arrangement would in reality be very different from what we have tacitly supposed .
The expe- rienced operator , in a NICOL to the position of maximum does not judge merely by the degree of darkness attained in the final position , but displacing the analyser alternately in opposite directions , estimates the position which lies midway between those which give similar revivals of light on the two sides ; or , endeavouring to retain in his memory a certain degree of brightness , he may take actual readings on both sides , of which the mean will correspond to the desired position .
In this way the fundamental advantage of the half-shade method is in a sense attained , the only difference being that the brightnesses to be compared are seen consecutively after a short interval of time , instead of almost simultaneously ; and even this difference becomes less important when the line dividing the field of view of the half-shade apparatus is so coarse that it cannot be rendered invisible .
The carrying out of this method is facilitated by a device which is worthy of trial .
The NICOL may be mounted loosely , so as to be capable of turning through a small angle ( 2 or 3 degrees ) between two stops .
These stops are rigidly attached to a rotating piece carrying the vernier , and it is to the position of this piece ( and not that of the NICOL ) to which the readings relate .
In taking an observation the piece is turned until the degree of brightness is unaltered , when the NICOL is put over the one stop to the other .
It is probable that under these advantageous conditions ROTATION OF LIGHT IN BISULPHIDE OF CARBON .
more favourable results than hitherto would be obtained with an undivided .
field of view .
In the application of the polarimeter , with which the present paper is mainly concerned , the free play of the NICOL is advantageously replaced by an equivalent rocking of the plane of polarisation itself through a small angle on either side of its normal position , produce by the action of an auxiliary electric current , embracing the experimental tube a moderate number of times , and reversed at pleasure by a suitable key under the hand of the observer .
In these discussions it has been convenient to take as a basis the difference of brightnesses which can be recognised on simple presentation to the eye , but it must be remembered that if suitable precautions are taken to avoid asymmetry , there is no theoretical limit of final accuracy .
Thus in ordinary photometry with a divided field ( e.g. , BUNSEN'S grease-spot photometer ) , the match must not be approached from one side only .
By combining a large number of observations in which the match is approached as much from one side as from the other , a degree of accuracy may be practically attained far beyond that corresponding to the difference of brightness which can be directly recognised by the eye .
It is not necessary actualJy to take readings on the two sides , though it is sometimes desirable to do so ; the essential poin is to secure symmetry .
Time may be saved by the plan of means for instantaneous displacements of given amount on either side , as was done in the experiments of the present paper by the auxiliary reversible current .
In practical applications of the polarimeter we have almost always to determine , not so much a particular plane of polarisation as the rotation of this plane , due to electromagnetic action , to the substitution of syrop for water , etc. , and it appears that the measurement of this angle must be affected with a possible error , double of the error possible in the determination of a single plane .
M. BECQUEREL , indeed , in his interesting memoir upon the rotation in bisulphide of carbon under the terrestrial magnetic force , describes a procedure by which , as he considers , the error may be reduced .
By the introduction of a plate , adjusted so that its principal section coincides nearly with the plane of first polarisation , the angle of rotation is , as it were , reflected by the former plane , and the difference of readings taken with and without the plate is the double of the real angle of rotation .
If be the greatest angular error possible in determining a single plane , M. BECQUEREL shows that the error in setting the plate cannot exceed , from which he argues that the whole error possible in determining the double angle of rotation is only , or upon the single angle .
It appears , however , that the error of adjustment of the half-wave plate enters * [ August , 1885 .
find that the sensitiveness of the eye to ] differences of brightness is subject to rapid fatigue .
Even a few seconds ' gazing is often enough to obliterate a distinction quite apparent at first , and appreciable again after a little repose .
This defect is a great obstacle to the further improvement of photometric methods .
] Ann. .
Chimie , t. 201 , p. 323 , 1882 .
causing the light to be reflected backwards and forwards at the ends of the tube .
Against this augmentation of the angle of rotation we must seb the loss in the section of the beam , and the waste of light in reflection and by absorption .
Putting out of sight for the moment the alteration in the section of the beam , we may easily determine the most advantageous number of passages as dependent upon magnitude of rotation and intensity of light .
If be the factor by which the original intensity must be multiplied , in order to express the intensity after a single passage and reflection , will express the intensity after such passages and reflections .
The accuracy of the determination will thus be proportional to , which is a maximum when .
The values of corresponding to equal to 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , . . .
, are 135 , 514 , 670 , 752 , , so that 3 or 5 passages ] usually give the best result .
The argument in favour of a moderate use only of the principle of reflection is strengthened when we take into account the diminution in the section of the beam .
The already contracted aperture is seen at a greater distance ( proportional to ) , so that the apparent magnitude of the field of view is rapidly narrowed .
Under these circumstances the comparisons cannot be made with the usual accuracy .
If we have recourse to a telescope we can indeed restore the apparent magnitude , but ( usually ) only at expense of the illumination , since the aperture of the telescope is limited .
If the available aperture do not exceed inch , degree of magnification involves a loss of brightness .
The importance of these considerations depends upon the length and diameter of the tube ; but the tendency of the discussion is to show that more than five passages can rarely be desirable , and that in many cases three passages ought to be preferred to five .
If there is any exception it will be when powerful white light ( as from the sun ) is available , or when it is possible by use of a larger number of passages to bring the whole rotation up to or , in which cases , as has already been noticed , the angle may be determined with peculiar advantage .
POSTSCRIPT .
( October , 1885 .
An important has recently been communicated to the French by M. BECQUEREL , in which he his former result ( S4 ) , obtained with the aid of terrestrial magnetic force , in favour of a number agreeing more nearly with that given by GORDON and myself In the new experiments a long column of was employed , encompassed by a spiral conveying a current , the effect of which is shown to depend upon the magnitude of the current and upon the number of turns , in approximate .
Chim .
, Oct. , 1885 .
C. R. , June 2 , 1885 .
ROTATION OF LIGHT IN BISULPHIDE OF CARBON .
independence of other circumstances .
M. BECQUEREL speaks of this method as new , but it is in reality that employed by GORDON in 1877 Most of the complication in GORDON'S memoir relates to the determination of the current , and especially to the circumstance that the number of turns in the spiral was not ascertained ( as it should have been ) during construction , but snbsequently by electrical processes .
When the number of turns and the current are known , there is no difference between the procedure of GORDON and BECQUEREL and that of the present memoir .
There is a pretty close resemblance between M. BECQUEREL'S recent work and mine .
In both a soda flame is used as the source of light , and in both the number of windings on the helices is ascertained during construction .
In the current determinations , -M .
BECQUEREL used a galvanometer as an intermediate standard , while I employed for the same purpose a CLARK'S cell , the ultimate standard being a silver voltameter ( and in my case a current-weighing apparatus ) .
Inasmuch as M. BECQUEHEL uses the same number as that which I obtained for the electro-chemical equivalent of silver , there should be no difference between us in the estimation of currents .
In M. BECQUEREL'S experiments the temperature of was usually about C. , and he reduces his results to that standard temperature .
He regards BIC , formula as confirmed by his observations .
According to this my result for would become 0430 ; whereas M. BECQUEREL obtains nearly 1 per cent. higher .
I am at a loss to understand the cause of this discrepancy .
M. BECQUEREL estimates that his result should be correct to , about the same degree of accuracy which I also had hoped to have attained .
So far as I can judge , I should consider that in respect of current measurement the adyantage lay with me , but that on the optical side M. arrangements were probably superior .
M. BECQUEREL repeats his proposal to found upon his value of the constant a method for current measurement .
I had considered this question at ( I believe ) an earlier date ; and the less sanguine view expressed in the following paragraph seems to be justified by the discrepancies between the Jlts of various observers at various times as to the value of the constant in bisulphide of carbon:\mdash ; " " Another method , available with the strong currents which are now common , depends upon FARADAY'S discovery of the rotation of the plane of polarisation by magnetic force .
GORDON found as the rotation due to the reversal of a current * See his equation ( 24 ) , p. 15 .
C. R. , .
xcviii .
, p. 1253 ; 1884 .
Jan. , 1884 .
In a note recently communicated to the Royal Society ( Proceedings , Nov. 15 , 1883 ) , Mr. GORDON points out that , owing to an error in reduction , the number given by him for the value of VERDET'S constant is twice as great as it should be .
The rotations above mentioned must therefore be halved , a correction which diminishes materially the prospect of constructing a useful instrument upon this principle .
NDCCCLXXXV .
the wire may be increased and the number of windings reduced .
With the best arrangements the rotation can be determined to one or two minutes , but in an instrument intended for practical use such a degree of delicacy is not available .
One difficulty arises from the depolarising properties of most specimens of heavy glass .
Arrangelnents are in progress for a redetermination of the rotation in bisulphide of carbon * From the Proceedings of the Cambridge Phi]osophical Society for Nov. 26 , 1883 .
See also ' Nature , ' Dec. 13 , 1883 .

