I. " On a new Mode of forming Triethylamine .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 23 , 1857 .
Researches on the constitution of the nitrogenous organic bases , which I zealously prosecuted some years ago , and the result of which were communicated to the Royal Society , have been , by circumstances , interrupted for some time .
Nearly all the observations recorded in my communications refer to the primary or amidogen-bases , i.e. the compound ammonias , in which I equivalent of hydrogen is replaced by an organic molecule .
Of the secondary and tertiary bases ( imidogenand nitrile-bases ) , i. e. the ammonias in which 2 or 3 equivalents of hydrogen are replaced , and of the fixed ammonium-bases , little more is known at present than their mode of formation and their composition .
On again taking up this subject lately , it appeared of paramount importance to search for new and , if possible , simpler methods of forming the secondary and tertiary bases .
Of the several experiments made for this purpose , on which I intend to report at another opportunity , I may be allowed even now to quote a result which appears to be capable of a more general application .
One of the common methods of preparing the amidogen-bases , consists in treating cyanic ether with hydrate of potassa , a reaction which was first observed by Wurtz .
To take a special case , cyanate of ethyl , when treated with hydrate of potassa , assimilates 2 equivalents of water and splits into ethylamine , which is set free , and carbonic acid , which is fixed by the alkali .
An appropriate modification of this reaction appeared to afford a means of passing directly from cyanate of ethyl to triethylamine .
For this purpose it was only necessary to offer to the cyanate of ethyl 2 equivalents of oxide of ethyl instead of 2 equivalents of water .
The action of cyanate of ethyl upon ethylic potassa appeared to involve the conditions necessary for accomplishing this result .
Experiment has fully confirmed this anticipation .
On digesting for several hours at a moderate temperature a mixture of pure cyanate of ethyl with pure ethylic potassa or soda ( that is , absolute alcohol as far as possible , saturated with potassium or sodium ) , and distilling subsequently upon a sand-bath , a strongly alkaline liquid containing alcohol is obtained .
Saturated with hydrochloric acid , this liquid furnishes on evaporation to dryness a residue from which a considerable quantity of triethylamine is expelled on addition of potassa .
The analogy of the two processes , of the formation of ethylamine and triethylamnine , is obvious on glancing at the following equations .
[ E C2ENO2 + 2(KO , HO ) =N+ 2KC03 H Cyanate of ethyl .
Hydrate of Ethylamine .
Carbonate of potassa .
potassium .
[ E C2ENO2 + 2(KO , EO ) =NE+ 2KC03 E Cyanate of ethyl .
Ethylic TriethylCarbonate of potassa .
amine .
potassium .
There could be no doubt regarding the identity of the basic compounds thus formed with triethylamine .
The base floating on the surface of the saturated aqueous solution , possessed in a marked manner the characteristic odour of triethylamine .
In order to exclude the possibility of a mistake , the hydrochloric solution of the compound was mixed with a solution of bichloride of platinum .
Only after protracted standing of the highly concentrated solution , deep orange-coloured , well-formed crystals of the platinum-salt were deposited , the physical characters of which were still fresh in my memory .
The determination of platinum furnished results closely agreeing with the formula NO HC1 , PtCl , EI have already applied this reaction in various directions , and shall communicate the results which I have obtained at a future period .
On considering how frequently , in the action of hydrated potassa upon organic substances , the hydrogen of the water of hydration is assimilated by the products of decomposition , the substitution of ethylic potassa for the hydrate appears in many cases to promise valuable results from this mode of ethylation .
The facility , however , with which ethylic potassa decomposes at a comparatively low temperature , must always be a serious obstacle to an extensive use of this reaction .

