]\gt ; -Ray Analysis of the -Structure of Rutile and Cassiterite .
* By C. M. WILLIAMS , B.Sc. , Fellow of the University of Wales .
( Communicated by Dr. E. H. Griffiths , F.R.S. Received March 1 , 1917 .
) The present paper deals with the results obtained in the investigation of the atomic structure of rutile and cassiterite by the -ray spectrometer .
A detailed account of the method has been given by Prof. and his son , W. L. , in a selies of papers communicated to the Royal Society .
It consists essentially in allowing a narrow beam of monochromatic -rays\mdash ; in this case the rhodium rays\mdash ; to fall on the face of the crystals , mounted on a spectrometer table , the axis of rotation of which passes through the face of the crystal .
The beam is " " reflected\ldquo ; by the atom planes parallel to this face , and thence passes into an ionisation chamber , containing methyl bromide in order to increase the ionisation curl.ent .
The.setting of crystal and chamber with regard to the incident beam corresponds to that for which ordinary light is reflected .
If glancing angle of incidence ; distance between the reflecting planes ; -length of the reflected wave ; then Brag has shown that the following formula holds\mdash ; , where order of the spectrum .
Hence , since the beam is mainly monochromatic , we shall get a maximum or " " special\ldquo ; reflection at that angle for which the characteristic rhodium ray is reflected the above equation .
Thus , knowing for rhodium , we can obtain the spacings of the atom planes parallel to the various faces from a determination of the angles of special reflection from those faces .
Before proceeding to give results , it may be advantageous to describe the crystals so as to render the nomenclature clear .
Rutile and cassiterite , with which is usually classed zircon , crystallise in the holohedral class of the tetragonal system .
Fig. 1 represents a typical crystal of this group , and the crystallographic nomenclature may be conveniently explained with reference to it .
Thus the plane OAD is called the 111 plane , and the intercepts of this face on a set of three mutually perpendicular axes give the ratios of the axes to which the crystal is referred .
* An account of research work carried out in the Memorial Physical Research Laboratory of the University College of South Wales and Monmouthshire , Cardiff .
The Crystal-Structure of Rutile and ssiterite .
FIG. 1 .
FIG. 2 .
The symmetry of the crystal is such that it possesses : ( a ) A vertical axis of fourfold symmetry .
( b ) Four vertical planes of symmetry .
( c ) One equatorial plane of symmetry .
Hence the vertical axis is naturally taken to coincide with the axis of fourfold symmetry , and the two equal horizontal axes as parallel and perpendicular to Thus ( fig. ) The ratios of the axes are as : PA : PO .
For rutile , , , , 1 : 1 : For cassiterite , , 1 : 1 : The other planes are referred to as follows:\mdash ; Plane .
Name .
ACC'A ' ( fig. 1 ) 100 ADD'A ' ( fig. 1 ) 110 ( fig. 2 ) 101 ABCD ( fig. 1 ) or PDA ( fig. 2 ) 001 Both crystals have cleavage planes parallel to the 100 , and also to the 110 faces , and are striated vertically on those faces .
Mr. C. M. Williams .
Analysis of the The results of the determination of the angles of special reflection of the first order are iven in the following Table:\mdash ; Table I. These angles were obtained by observing the position of special reflection first on one side of the table and then on the other .
Except in the case of the weak reflection from the 111 planes the chamber could be set to within a few minutes of the correct position , which defines the lancing angle tc within about 2 or 3 minutes .
A comparison of the spacings of the three chief planes shows that have for Butile ( b ) Cassiterite : It is at once noticeable that the spacing of the 001 planes is half what to be expected from the crystal data .
, we notice that the of the atoms in cassiterite is yreateI than that for rutile ; the crystal is built on a scale .
This is in agreement with the Theory of Molecular Volumes ; in fact , given molecular volumes of cassiterite and rutile , and also the angle of reflectio ] ] from one , we can calculate the value of the corresponding angle from the other .
Thus if distance between the 100 planes , The molecular volume is and is proportional to .
wt. ; density ) .
If and refer to cassiterite and rutile respectively Crystal-Structure of Rutite ssiterite .
For cassiterite Calculated value for rutile Observed , , , , We my also calculate the number of molecules contained in the rectangular prism cut out between two basal planes by the 110 , planes taken consecutively .
If mass of atom ; .
wt. ; density of crystal ; .
of mols .
, For l.utile 80 ; .
Hence , , cassiterite .
, , Or , since .
then the number contained in the elementary volume is and for rutile and cassiteritc respectively , each of which is very approximately equal to 1 .
Bearing of the Results on the Stracturof Rutilc and Cassiterite .
In applying the results to construct a model of the space-lattice representing the configuration of the atoms , complications arise to there being two kinds of atoms in the molecule .
We have to bear in mind that the presence of the atoms Dlay influence powerfully the spectra due to the metal atoms alone .
Indeed , the Messrs. Brag have adduced strong evidence in support of the view that an atom contributes to the amplitude of the reflected beam in proportion to its weight .
With regard to the case under consideration , we have two isomorphous crystals in which the atomic weights of the metals composint them differ widely .
Thus titanium has atomic weight 48 , while that of tin is 119 .
Hence , while we might expect the oxygen in rutile to modify the spectra due to the metal atoms alone , even to the extent of cutting out some of the orders , we can fairly safely regard at least the position of the spectra given by cassiterite as being that characteristic of lattice on which the metal atoms are built .
As a matter of fact , the spectra in the two cases are remarkably similar .
Let us now attempt to construct a model which will explain the results obtained .
From a consideration of the Bravais space lattices we are naturally led to try one of the two lattices characterising the system of the form and dimensions shown in the diagram ( for rutile ) , figs. 3 and 4 .
It might at first sight be supposed that the ratio of to would decide between them ; for in fig. 3 , while in 422 Mr. C. M. Williams .
, however , to the uity in choosing the horizontal axes , this criterion does not avail .
But an examination of these two lattices shows that neither will explain FIG. 3 .
FIG. 4 .
all the results .
For taking fig. 3 , we note that we have to associate 2 molecules with each point of the lattice as shown by the above calculation .
Assuming 2 molecules associated with this elementary volume and knowing we can calculate the angles of reflection from the other faces .
The disagreement between this theory and experiment is shown below for rutile : Table II .
differences occur in the case of the 001 and the 111 planes , where we notice that the calculated values are half and double the observed values respectively .
Similar objections may be urged against Any lattice selected must not only give the spacing , but also the right amount of mass per elementary volume ; while , in addition , it must conform to the symmetry of the crystal as a whole , namely , the holohedral class of the tetragonal system .
Two lattices , or possibly three , appear to satisfy the requirements of the problem .
They are shown in figs. 5 , 6 , and 7 .
The arrangement of the planes and relative of the reflecting planes for fig. 6 are shown in fig. 8 .
In order to test these lattices further we may examine the intensities of the erent orders .
Crystal-Structure of Rutile and ssiterite .
Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- Plane .
e- MM MM MM MM FIG. 8 .
The method of determining the ratios was to set the crystal and chamber for a reflection , a narrow incident beam , the slit of the chamber being ciently wide to take in the whole of the reflected radiation .
The ionisation current was determined for all positions in the neighbourhood of the maximum by turning the crystal through successive small steps .
chief difficulty is due to the variation in intensity of the source .
In order to obviate this as much as possible , a second slit was cut in the lead box containing the bulb .
The beam issuing through this was refiected by a crystal into another ionisation chamber , the electrode of which could be Mr. C. M. Williams .
-Ray of the connected to the electroscope at will .
Thus , on exciting the bulb , two reflected beams of characteristic rays passed into the separate cham.bers at the same time .
On turning off the rays each electrode was connected in to the electroscope ( in practice one was connected permanently to it ) , and the ionisation currents in the two chambers determined .
Thus a fairly reliable check on the variations of the source was obtained .
To obtain a comparison of theoretical values with those observed ( Table ) , it is necessary to make assumptions in two directions:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The scattering power of an atom : we shall assume that an atom contributes to the amplitude of the reflected beam in proportion to its mass \mdash ; an assumption well justified by the Brag results .
( 2 ) We have to assume a rate of decline of the intensities for successive orders for a set of precise]y similar planes : we shall adopt the ratio given by W. L. for a normal order , namely 100 : 20 : 7 , though it is quite possible that the ratio might depend on the crystal , and may not be the same for rutile as for cassiterite .
We may note in this connection that Vegard obtained two different ratios for the normal order from different faces of a silver Turning now to the configuration of the oxygen atoms , we notice that the intensity in the second order of the 100 spectrum of rutile is below normal .
Hence it would appear that the oxygen atoms lie in planes parallel to the 001 planes , and tend to weaken the second order of the 001 spectrum .
Bearing this in mind , let us attempt to associate two oxygen atoms with one metal atom .
We then get the configuration shown in the diagram ( fig. 9 ) .
In attempting to form a comparison between theory and experiment , we metal atom oxygen , , Crystal-Structure Rutile Cassiterite .
have to remember that the comparison must necessarily be of an empirical character , owing both to the assumptions made and to the difficulty of comparing the ratios experimentally .
In view of the above considerations , a very close agreement between theory and experiment cannot be expected .
The following results show the agreement obtained by taking the lattice represented by fig. 9 , assuming\mdash ; ( 1 ) That the metal atom between two consecutive 100 planes is displaced and for rutile and cassiterite respectively .
( 2 ) The horizontal displacement of the atom is from the nearest 100 plane .
( 3 ) The distance between the metal 001 planes and the nearest oxygen plane is and for cassiterite and rutile respectively .
Table III.\mdash ; Comparison of Intensities .
lane .
cRutile On the whole , there is a general agreement between the calculated and observed values of the intensities , and the calculated values are sufficient to account for the variation in the observed intensities of the spectra .
As regards the other two lattices ( figs. 5 and 7 ) , it may be stated that they do not give an approximate agreement between the calculated and observed intensities .
The model presents many interesting features:\mdash ; ( 1 ) It possesses the full symmetry of the holohedral class of the tetragonal system .
( 2 ) It has a tetragonal screw axis .
( 3 ) Both the 100 and the 110 planes are indicated as cleavage planes .
VOL. XCIII.\mdash ; A. 2 Tlre Crysted-Structure of Rutile Cassiterite .
( 4 ) We note also that , in a sense , the crystal is enantiomorphous , two parts being obtained by a across a 100 plane .
This is interesting , on account of the fact that Bravais considered that crystals which showed twinning , such as that peculiar to rutile and cassiterite , to be of this character .
( 5 ) The peculiar vertical arrangement of the metal atoms in the direction parallel to the axis may possibly be connected with the striations observed on the vertical faces .
NOTE.\mdash ; After the above observations had been made and embodied in a paper , flts obtained by a similar method were published by Dr. Vegard* on the structure of this of crystals .
His observations were in reement with most of those iven above , but differed in one or two vital respects , namely , the position of the reflections from the 100 and 111 faces , his values being twice as great as those given above .
It was therefore thought highly advisable to repeat the observations on this point .
or this a new -ray tube had to be procured .
Owing , however , to the war , considerable delay was caused , which prevented the confirmation being undertaken earlier .
When , indeed , this became possible , all doubts about there being a reflection from the 100 face , as given above , were at once dispelled .
As regards the reflection from the 111 faces , reflection at the angle stated above is quite definite in the case of rutile , though for cassiterite it is very small ; still , calculation shows that this should be so .
It will be seen that these half-angle reflections can find no place in the model suggested by Vegard .
It may be further noticed that this model fies the crystal symmetry only on the assumption that certain elements of optical symmetry are of the nature of statistical effects , while the smaller wave-length of -rays reveals an actual absence of these elements .
The good agreement obtained by between calculated and observed intensities depends partly on his assumptions of a different normal order ( 100 : 30 : 12 ) for cassiterite and zircon from the more ordinary ones ( 100 : 20 : 7 ) adopted for rutile .
It may be pointed out , with respect to the unusual values ( 100 : 50 ) found by Vegard for the presumably normal order in the case of the 111 planes of , that narrowing the slit changed the ratio to 100 : 35 .
Without knowing the exact details experimental arrangements , it is difficuIt to say what the precise meaning of this change may be ; it may be noted that the glancing angles for the 111 planes are smaller than those for the 100 planes , and it is not difficult to see that , with ' Phil. Mag July , 1916 . .
cit. , p. 81 .
The Composition of the from Various .
427 small glancing angles , under certain arrangements of the apparatus , an excessive slit width would lead to a fictitiously high ratio of the second to the first order spectrum .
The crystals used in the above inyestigation were excellent specimens , lent me by .
Hutchinson , of Cambridge , to w.hom my best thanks are due .
I am also indebted to Prof. .
for the very kind interest he has shown in the work , and to Principal Griffiths , for his sympathy and kindness in considering my requirements .
Further , I desire to express my heartiest thanks to Captain J. H. Shaxby for the valuable uidance and iStanCe 1 has rendered me throughout the work .
The Composition of the -Rays By G. W. C. KAYE , , D.Sc .
, Captain .
Communicated Glazebrook , Received March ( the National Physical .
Laboratory .
) In a paper published in the 'Philosophical Transaction 1908 , the writer described some experiments on the -rays emitted ) a variety of metals when used as anticathodes in an -ray bulb .
Among the results established was the homogeneity of a large proportion of the -rays when the bulb was very\ldquo ; soft The absorption curves of the several homogeneous radiations revealed their identities with the characteristic " " secondary\ldquo ; radiations which Barkla and Sadler had then recently discovered .
The experiments described in the present paper are an extension of the above , and were carried out partly at the Cavendish Laboratory in 1908 and partly at the National Physical Laboratory just prior to the war .
The writer 's military duties have prevented the continuation of the work , and the results are now put on record in the hope that they may help to further tloe progress of the subject , to which the more precise method of the crystalspectrometer has given a great impetus from a different point of Apparatus .
The apparatus employed is sufficiently explained by fig. 1 , which is approximately to scale .
As in the earlier experiments , the various anti* Series , vol. 209 , p. 123 .

