184 Mr. E. Schunck .
" Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
No. II .
" By Edward Schunck , F.R.S , Received November 25 , \#151 ; Read December 16 , 1886 .
[ Plate 1 .
] Considering the intimate though as yet little understood connexion between chlorophyll and the carbon dioxide of the atmosphere , it seemed to me that it might be of interest to ascertain whether compounds of phyllocyanin , similar to those previously described , could be obtained , in which the organic or other acid should be replaced by carbonic acid .
On passing a current of carbon dioxide through a solution of phyllocyanin in absolute alcohol holding a quantity of freshly precipitated hydrated ferrous oxide in suspension , no combination took place , the phyllocyanin remaining unchanged , though the current of gas was passed through the liquid for a considerable time .
On substituting freshly precipitated cupric oxide for the ferrous oxide there were slight indications of some reaction taking place , but the phyllocyanin remained for the most part uncombined .
A. much more decided effect is produced when zinc oxide is employed .
On passing a current of carbon dioxide for several hours through an alcoholic solution of phyllocyanin holding hydrated zinc oxide in suspension , the colour of the liquid changes by degrees , the dull phyllocyanin tint disappearing .
On being filtered from the excess of zinc oxide ( which retains a pale-green tint , not removable by washing with alcohol ) it appears of a fine bluish-green ; it fluoresces strongly , and shows absorption-bands which coincide with those of the alcoholic solution of phyllocyanin zinc acetate .
The liquid leaves on evaporation a dark-green semi-crystal line residue , which may be heated to 150 ' without undergoing any change , but is decomposed at a temperature of 160\#151 ; 170 ' .
It is , however , very easily decomposed by the action of strong acids .
On adding a little hydrochloric acid to its alcoholic solution and heating , bubbles of gas are seen to escape , the colour of the solution changes to blue , and on now adding water there is a dull flocculent precipitate , which dissolves easily on shaking up with ether , the solution showing the colour and absorption-bands peculiar to phyllocyanin solutions .
There can be no doubt , therefore , that the compound formed is a phyllocyanin zinc carbonate , which by the action of strong acids is decomposed , yielding phyllocyanin and carbon dioxide .
An alcoholic solution of the compound exposed in an open test-tube to sunlight soon loses its bright-green colour and becomes yellow , the absorption-bands at the same time disappearing .
Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
185 The compounds of phyllocyanin containing zinc are in some respects not unlike chlorophyll itself , or rather the green constituent of chlorophyll , and it was , therefore , natural to suppose that the peculiar effects observed when zinc powder was made to act on Hoppe-Seyler 's chlorophyllan ( impure phyllocyanin P ) were due to regenerated chlorophyll .
The phyllocyanin zinc compounds , like chlorophyll itself , yield bright green strongly fluorescent solutions -r they are easily decomposed by strong acids , and they are rapidly changed under the combined influence of air and light .
The absorption spectrum of the phyllocyanin zinc compounds consists like that of chlorophyll of four bands , but the bands do not exactly coincide with those of chlorophyll as regards position and relative intensity .
In making such comparisons it must not of course be forgotten that what we in a general way call chlorophyll is a mixture , the components of which have not hitherto been separated from one another in a satisfactory manner .
The various double compounds of phyllocyanin are not equally susceptible to the influence of air and light ; they differ as much in this respect , inter se , as do phyllocyanin and chlorophyll , the former being a very stable body , the latter exceedingly unstable .
The compounds containing zinc are most easily changed , while those containing copper are very permanent .
These differences were clearly manifested in an experiment of which the results were as follows :\#151 ; A dilute alcoholic solution of phyllocyanin was divided into four equal parts .
In one part the phyllocyanin was left uncombined ; in the second part it was by the addition of acetic acid and zinc oxide and boiling changed into phyllocyanin zinc acetate , while in the third and fourth parts it was in like manner converted into phyllocyanin ferrous acetate and phyllocyanin cupric acetate respectively .
All four liquids having been made equal in volume by the addition of alcohol where required , were exposed from the end of July in loosely stoppered cylinders to alternate sunlight and diffused daylight , an alcoholic solution of chlorophyll of approximately the same intensity as the phyllocyanin zinc acetate solution being placed in a fifth vessel at the side .
After three days ' exposure the chlorophyll solution had become nearly colourless , though it still showed bands due to ready-formed phyllocyanin .
After one week 's exposure the phyllocyanin zinc acetate solution had in like manner lost the greater part of its green colour , retaining only a faint greenish-yellow tinge with a slight fluorescence , and showing a faint band in the red .
After a fortnight 's exposure the solution appeared nearly colourless , and the band in the red could only be seen when the light passed through a considerable thickness of liquid , while the other solutions were quite unaltered as regards colour and absorption-bands .
After a further exposure of five weeks the phyllocyanin solution had become much Mr. E. Sclrunck .
paler , though still showing the characteristic absorption-bands , while in the solution of the ferrous compound only a faint indication of the band in the red could be seen , the solution of the cupric compound remaining quite unchanged as regards intensity of colour and distinctness of absorption .
After a still further exposure the absorption-bands of the phyllocyanin solution had nearly disappeared , only a faint indication of the one in the red remaining , but no change could be perceived in the solution of the cupric compound .
It appears , therefore , that while the zinc compound shows far less stability when exposed in solution to the action of air and light than uncombined phyllocyanin , being indeed almost as unstable as chlorophyll itself , the cupric compound is far more stable , the ferrous compound occupying in this respect a position intermediate between that of the zinc compound and that of uncombined phyllocyanin .
There are few compounds of colouring matters which would withstand the combined action of light and oxygen for so long a period as phyllo-cvauin cupric acetate .
1 he instability of the zinc compound must be due to the nature of the compound itself , for it is difficult to suppose that the metallic base can in any way assist in the process of oxidation , for such the process must be .
Action of Caustic Allcali and Zinc on Phyllocyanin.\#151 ; When phyllo-cyanin is treated with boiling caustic potash lye to which zinc powder is added , it dissolves rapidly , yielding a dark greenish-blue solution , which after filtration from the excess of zinc , gives with acetic acid a green precipitate .
This precipitate , after filtration and washing , dissolves in ether , giving a fine bluish-green fluorescent solution , which resembles the solutions of phyllocyanin zinc acetate , but shows a slightly different spectrum , all the bands except the first being further away from the red .
The ethereal solution leaves on spontaneous evaporation an amorphous residue , which is green by transmitted , purple by reflected light .
When instead of acetic acid hydrochloric acid is added to the greenish-blue alkaline solution , there is a dark green precipitate , which differs from phyllocyanin inasmuch as its ethereal solution is greener and far more fluorescent than an ethereal solution of the latter , and shows a spectrum of five bands , all of which lie further away from the red than the corresponding ones of phyllocyanin .
It is probable that the precipitate with hydrochloric acid consists of a product formed by the reducing action of zinc on phyllocyanin , whereas the precipitate with acetic acid represents the double compound of this body with zinc and acetic acid , being formed when acetic acid is added to the solution containing the product of reduction along with zinc oxide .
Action of Hydrochloric Acid and Metallic Tin on Phyllocyanin.\#151 ; When metallic tin is added to a solution of phyllocyanin in concentrated hydrochloric acid , the solution on standing gradually loses its Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
187 bright bluish-green colour , which changes to a dull olive-green .
The addition of water to the solution produces a brown precipitate , which being filtered off and washed to remove the acid , dissolves much more easily in boiling alcohol than phyllocyanin , giving a dark olive-coloured solution .
This solution leaves on evaporation a brown amorphous residue , -which treated with ether dissolves for the most part .
The ethereal solution has a green colour with a tinge of red , and shows a spectrum consisting of eight bands ; it leaves on evaporation a semi-crystalline residue , which is green by transmitted , purple by reflected light .
On the addition of concentrated hydrochloric acid it separates into two distinct layers , the upper one being colourless , while the lower one is green , and shows four bands .
By the prolonged action of tin on the solution of phyllocyanin in hydrochloric acid , a further and more complete change is effected , the solution acquiring a bright red colour without the least tinge of green .
On adding water the solution gives a red flocculent precipitate , which filtered off and washed appears dark red , the filtrate retaining an orange colour , and showing a broad ill-defined band , covering paiff of the green and blue .
The precipitate dissolves almost entirely in warm alcohol , giving a bright red solution .
This solution , on adding a little caustic alkali , acquires a bright lemon-yellow colour , but the red colour is restored by an excess of hydrochloric acid ; the alkaline solution shows a broad band between the green and blue , but on standing a short time exposed to the air it changes , becoming of a deeper yellow , and it now shows a spectrum of three bands , one in the yellow , one in the green , both pale , with a dark band between the green and blue .
The red alcoholic solution leaves on spontaneous evaporation a reddish-brown amorphous residue , which dissolves only in part in boiling ether , giving a reddish-brown solution , which shows a peculiar spectrum of six bands .
The body showing this spectrum is probably a product of oxidation of the red substance .
The acid liquid filtered from the red precipitate , after removing the tin with sulphuretted hydrogen , is found to contain a mere trace of organic matter .
The colouring matter formed by the action of tin and hydrochloric acid on phyllocyanin resembles in some respects those contained in the petals of red flowers .
Hitherto , however , I have not succeeded in finding among the latter any one exactly like it .
Examination of the Mother-liquors of Phyllocyanin.\#151 ; Having some reason to suspect that the acetic acid mother-liquors of phyllocyanin contained some other substance similar to it of definite character , I added water to a portion of these liquors , so as to throw down the whole of the colouring matter contained in it .
The flocculent precipitate was filtered off and dissolved in boiling alcohol .
The solution on cooling gave a crystalline deposit which Avas found to possess 188 Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
all the properties of phyllocyanin .
I think therefore that the mother and TtheHm 3Trities^ C'l0m'ing matter 0nl^\gt ; along with fatty matters EXPLANATION OF PLATE .
Absorption Spectra of Phyllocyanin and its principal Compounds and Derivatives 1 .
Chlorophyll in alcohol .
This spectrum is given merely for the sate of conn byTthers " a rePresentafcion of what has so frequently been depicted 2 .
Phyllocyanin in ether .
3 .
Phyllocyanin in concentrated hydrochloric acid .
4 .
Phyllocyanin cupric acetate in ether .
5 .
Phyllocyanin ferrous palmitate in alcohol .
6 ' Ph5 ; rnm ferr0US Palmitate after treatment with hydrochloric acid in the s. ss\#174 ; lzz srs wi , h boing Mrochi'\#153 ; in S:y !
!'CJanm ferrous malate affcer treatment with hydrochloric acid .
in a , coM- ti " ^ 1L Pr'^Xtherd ^ treatiBS Phyll'c^anin With caustic alialh then with acetic ll ' Pr^UCt " by thC 5Urther action of acetic acid on fche preceding , in ether .
' ^* duct'f fche actlon o\#163 ; alcoholic potash or soda on phyllocyanin , in ether .
Uether'dUCt 'f ^ aCtl'n 'f tin and hydrochloric acid on phyllocyanin , in 15 ' Finei ; rdUCt ^ the a'ti0n 'f tin and hydrochloric acid on phyllocyanin , in Proc. Roy .
Soc. West , Newman \amp ; Co. 11th .

