142 Lord Rayleigh and Mrs. Sidgwick .
[ June 19 , A battery composed of plates 10 inches long and ^ an inch wide gives a current of 0-122 ampere at first starting , but as polarisation takes place , after five minutes , only 0*079 ampere .
The cost of a battery of this size is 0'40 fr .
( 4 d.about ) , it remains in action for six days without the renewal of the sodium .
Batteries of larger dimensions , as for example 10 inches long and If inches wide , last four weeks , because the action is chiefly on the edges of the sodium plate , and the broader the plate the longer the sodium lasts without renewal .
X. " On the Electro-chemical Equivalent of Silver , and on the Absolute Electromotive Force of Clark Cells .
" By Lord Rayleigh , D.C.L , F.R.S. , and Mrs. H. Sidgwick .
Received June 18 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains a record of a long series of experiments , extending over nearly two years .
The measurement of the electric currents is direct , not depending upon a knowledge of the force of terrestrial magnetism .
Three horizontal coils are traversed in succession by the electric current .
Of these two of large diameter are fixed , and at a distance apart equal to the radius of either .
Symmetrically between them a smaller coil is suspended in the balance .
When the current passes , the suspended coil is pressed down , or lifted up , according to the connexions , and the observations relate to the double force called into operation when the direction of the current in the fixed coils is reversed .
In a paper read before the British Association at Southampton it was shown that this construction presents special advantages , and in particular that the calculation of the result does not require an accurate knowledge of the radii of the coils , but only of the ratio of the radii of the small and large coils .
In this way one of the principal difficulties , the measurement of the small coil , is evaded .
The ratio of the radii is found by the electrical method of Bosscha , A large and small coil being adjusted so as to be concentric and coaxal , a very small magnet with attached mirror is suspended at the common centre .
The two circuits are connected electrically in parallel , and resistance is added to one of them until no effect upon the suspended magnet follows a reversal of the battery current .
The ratio of the resistances , to be found immediately by comparison with standards , is the ratio of the galvanometer constants of the two coils , and from this the ratio of the radii may be obtained by the introduction of small corrections relating to the finite dimensions of the 1884 ] Ovi the Electro-chenneal E Silva , * 143 sections .
Full particulars are given of the procedure adopted in the reduction of the method to practice .
The insulation of the small coil , which was wound upon a ring of ebonite , was carefully tested with the induction balance after the manner recommended by Graham Bell .
The first attempt at winding it proved a failure , several turns being short-circuited ; and we are of opinion that no coil of fine wire can be thoroughly depended upon which has not been tested by some such method . .
The calculation of the constant of the current weighing apparatus is best made with the aid of elliptic functions .
Both for our own purposes and in order to facilitate the use of the method by others , we have calculated a table of the function sin 7 ( 2Fy\#151 ; ( 1 + sec27Ey } , ( see " Maxwell 's Electricity , " 2nd edition , S701 ) , for values of 7 ranging from 55 ' to 70 ' .
For determining the electro-chemical equivalent of silver , the current passes also through silver voltameters .
The solution of nitrate , or of chlorate , is contained in a platinum basin which serves as the kathode .
The anode is a flat piece of fine silver sheet , wrapped in filter-paper , and suspended by platinum wire at the top of the liquid .
The duration of the current is determined by a chronometer , and allowance is made for the small loss of time ( about one-tenth second ) , incurred at each reversal of the current in the fixed coils of the measuring apparatus .
In the preliminary notice of March , 1884 , the troubles into which we were led by the use of acetate of silver were referred to .
With pure nitrate the manipulations present no particular difficulty .
We were equally successful with chlorate , prepared for us by Mr. Scott ; and the comparison of the results with nitrate and chlorate verify Faraday 's law to a high degree of accuracy .
In the reduction of the current weighings , we found it necessary to time all the observations , and to plot the readings obtained in the two positions of the reversing key as separate curves .
The difference of ordinates then represents the double electromagnetic force , as it would have been found were it possible to take both observations simultaneously .
What we require for comparison with the mean rate of silver deposit is the mean square root of the difference of weighings , and is easily obtained when once the curves are constructed .
Apart from errors relating to the constant of the apparatus , the mean value of a tolerably steady current of half an hour 's duration should be obtainable to about -twoC In our experiments , the whole change of weight on reversal was about 1 grm. , and each single observation was correct to half a milligram .
In the passage from 144 Lord Rayleigh and Mrs. Sidgwick .
[ June 19 , 1 the attraction to the current , the error is halved by the extraction of the square root .
The currents actually employed were about ^ ampere .
Much more powerful currents could not he passed for the necessary time through the suspended coil without risk of undue heating .
Had it been desirable to use stronger currents , it would , of course , have been possible to do so by the use of thicker wire .
With given grooves to be filled up , the ratio of the electromagnetic attraction to the heat developed is independent of the gauge of the wire ; and the only farther modification required would be the multiplication of the fine copper wires by which the flexible connexions are made .
Thirteen determinations of the ratio of the square root of the double attraction of the coils to the rate of silver deposit gave numbers ranging from 2413'7 to 2415*5 , mean 24l4-45 ; whence , after introduction of the constant of the apparatus , the value of the electrochemical equivalent in C.G.S. measure is found to be\#151 ; *0111794 .
In terms of practical units , we have as the quantity of silver in grams deposited per ampere per hour\#151 ; .
4-0246 .
With use of this number , it is now easy to determine by the deposit of silver currents up to 1^ ampere .
For currents of greater power it is necessary either to increase the size of the ( 3-inch ) platinum basins serving as voltameters , or to dispose several such in multiple arc .
For ordinary practical purposes , many of the precautions which we thought it necessary to adopt may be dispensed with .
The deposits , after a few rinsings with distilled water , may be left to soak for an hour , and then , after a farther rinsing , dried off over a spirit lamp .
In an hour 's time , the basin may be weighed correctly to a few tenths of a milligram .
With regard to the materials , it is sufficient to use for the anodes a sheet of ordinary fine silver ( such as is sold at 5s .
per ounce ) , and a 16 or 30 per cent , solution of nitrate .
It is hoped that this method may come into general use for the verification of current-measuring instruments , whose indications depend upon the constancy of springs , or of steel magnets .
Silver presents so many advantages as compared with copper , that its greater cost should not stand in the way of its adoption , more especially as there need be no great waste of material .
In view of the importance of obtaining a convenient standard of electromotive force , a prolonged examination has been made of a number of Clark cells .
Of these two patterns have been used , the first constructed according to the directions of Clark himself and of Alder Wright , with some simplifications ; the second , called for 1884 .
] On the Electro-Chemical Equivalent of Silver .
145 brevity the H-cell , in which the solid zinc is replaced by a fluid amalgam .
The amalgam and the pure mercury , forming the metallic electrodes , are placed at the bottom of two small test-tubes standing vertically .
The electric connexion is made by platinum wires sealed through the bottoms , and the communication between the two vertical tubes is through a lateral horizontal branch sealed into them .
The cell is filled with sulphate of zinc solution above the level of the horizontal branch , and can then be closed with corks .
This form of cell lends itself conveniently to experiment , as by withdrawing the corks it is easy to observe the effect of stirring or of various additions .
A large number of cells have been compared for more than eight months , and have behaved very satisfactorily .
The results are sometimes anomalous for the first two or three weeks , but the values finally attained are in our experience extremely close together .
The comparisons are made by the method of compensation .
The difference of electromotive force of the cells to be compared is compensated by a known fraction of the electromotive force of other cells , the value of which is then expressed in terms of one of the Clarks .
There would be no difficulty in obtaining still greater sensitiveness , but it is useless to take readings closer than to -j-o swo* The Clark cells possess the immense practical advantage ( as compared , for instance , with Daniell 's ) 6f standing always ready for use , but the objection is sometimes expressed that they polarise greatly on the passage of the smallest currents .
Our experience has been in the opposite direction , and has shown that moderate short-circuiting is actually advantageous in the case of cells newly set up .
When old cells , which have reached their permanent condition , are allowed to make ampere for a quarter of an hour , the disturbance thus occasioned passes off in about half an hour to within a few ten-thousandths , and on the next day there is no indication of any residual effect .
The absolute determinations of the E.M.F. of Clark 's cells were made by compensation with the difference of potentials at the terminals of a known resistance traversed by a known current .
The details of the method , which offers no special difficulty , are given in the paper .
Of thirteen values , found on different days between October , 1883 , and April , 1884 , with the current measuring apparatus , the highest is 1-4552 and the lowest 1'4531 .
This number expresses the E.M.F. of a certain cell at 15 ' in terms of B.A. volts .
To get the E.M.F. in true volts , the mean number ( 1-4542 ) must be multiplied by the number expressing the B.A. unit of resistance in absolute measure .
If 1 B.A.=-9867 ohm , E.M.F. of Clark=l-435 volt .
The value of the H-cells would be a few ten-thousandths higher .
Apparatus capable of giving original determinations of the intensities of currents not being generally available , we have shown with VOL. XXXYIL L 146 Lord Rayleigh .
Constant of Electromagnetic [ June 19 , examples how by the use of the silver voltameter the E.M.F. of any cell can be found without muoh difficulty , and with scarcely any special appliances .
XI .
" Preliminary Note on the Constant of Electromagnetic Rotation of Light in Bisulphide of Carbon .
" By Lord Rayleigh , D.C.L. Received June 18 , 1884 .
In connexion with other work upon current measurement by Mrs. Sidgwick and myself , we have endeavoured to determine the value of this constant , so as to decide between the very discrepant results arrived at by Gordon* and by H. Becquerel.f The method adopted by us was so far similar to that of Gordon that the tube of bisulphide of carbon was placed inside a helix , but the value of the current traversing the helix was determined in a different manner without reference to terrestrial magnetism .
The light employed was that emitted by sodium .
When it is remembered that the effect would vary about two parts per thousand in passing from one sodium line to the other , the importance of definiteness in this respect will be obvious .
The number of turns in the helix is 3684 , and the insulation was submitted to severe tests .
In carrying out the measurements the principal difficulty encountered was from optical disturbance arising from the communication of heat from the helix to the bisulphide .
Not only does the mean temperature of the bisulphide rise somewhat rapidly during a series of experiments , but on account of the tendency of the warmer parts to find their way to the top of the tube , the light is sensibly diverted from its proper course .
It is believed that by a modification of the apparatus about to be tried , this source of embarrassment will be materially checked .
The plane of polarisation was determined in some experiments by a Nicol read in two positions , and in others by a double image prism read in four positions .
The adjustment of the match between the two parts of the field presented by the half-shade apparatus was facilitated by a device that may be found useful .
In addition to the principal helix , the tube was embraced by an auxiliary coil of insulated wire , through which could be led the current from a Leclanche cell .
This current was controlled by a reversing key under the hand of the observer , who was thus able to rock the plane of polarisation backwards and forwards through a small angle about * " Phil. Trans. , " 1877 .
f " Ann. d. Chim .
, " 1882 .

