[ 919 ] XXVIII .
On a new Cfrom the Southern Sea .
By P. Herbert Carpenter , Assistant-Master at Eton College .
Communicated by William B. Carpenter , C.B. , M.D. , F.R.S. { Published by permission of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury .
) Received March 15 , \#151 ; Read April 12 , 1883 .
[ Plate 71 .
] Towards the end of last year I received from Mr. Murray a small collection of " Challenger " Comatulce which had been retained by the late Sir Wyville Thomson , and was found among his other collections after his death , It included several duplicates of forms already known to me , among them being three fairly perfect specimens of a type which I had only been able to study from a mutilated calyx .
There were also eight or nine new species of Aall from stations which had already yielded Comatulce , two of them abundantly so .
Lastly , there was an apparently insignificant little specimen from a depth of 1,800 fathoms at Station 158 in the Southern Sea.* It has five simple arms , and appeared at first sight to be merely a young individual of Eudiocrinus semperi , \ which was dredged at Stations 164 and 169 .
Upon closer examination , however , I found that the specimen , although a true Comatula , and resembling Eudiocrinus in having but five arms , presents two characters which occur in no other Neocrinoid .
In fact it is only among some of the older Palseocrinoids that similar features are to be met with , and I have no hesitation in saying that this is by far the most remarkable of all the Crinoids obtained by any of the recent deep-sea exploring expeditions .
Under these circumstances I propose to distinguish the type by the generic name Tliaumatocrinus , \with the specific designation renovatus .
* Station 158 , March 7 , 1874 , lat. 50 ' 1 ' S " long .
123 ' 4 ' E. ; depth 1,800 fathoms ; bottom temperature 3 ' C. , Globigerina-ooze .
The only other Comatula obtained at this station was abyssorum .
| This is the Ophiocrinus semperi of my preliminary report ( Proc. Roy , Soc , , No. 191 , 1879 , p. o85 ) .
Owing to the previous employment of Ophiocrinus by Salter and also by Angelin , I have pioposed JEudiocrinus for the recent type to which this name was given by Semper ( Journ. Linn. hoc .
Zool. , vol. xvi .
, p. 493 ) .
* Oav/ ioi , a marvel .
( 5 b 2 The total width of the calyx across the disc is barely 2 millims. ; and the height of the centrodorsal and radials together is about the same .
The former ( Plate 71 , figs. 1-4 , cd ) is rounded below , with its central canal completely closed up , so that it must have been detached for some little time from the remainder of the stem .
The bases of half a dozen cirri are attached to it , and there are pits for the reception of two or three more .
In the largest stump which is preserved ( Plate 71 , figs. 1 , 3 , c ) the first two joints are quite short , as is usually the case , but the third reaches a length of 1 '5 millim. , so that the cirri must have been very like those of crinussemperi .
Except in this respect , however , and in the presence of five undivided arms , there is no further resemblance between the two types ; for has a rosette , and consequently no basals appear externally .
The radials are also only partially visible , owing to the extension of the centrodorsal over their lower surfaces , and the oral plates of the larva do not persist in the adult .
But in Thaumcitocrinus ( Plate 71 , figs. 1-4 ) there are relatively large basals which completely separate the centrodorsal ( cd ) from the radials ( r).This is itself an unusual feature in any Comcitula , as will be explained further on .
Upon these five basals there rests a ring of ten arched plates , five of which ( r ) bear the arms , and are evidently the radials .
But they are not in contact , as is the case in every other five-rayed Neocrinoid with which I am acquainted , for they alternate with five smaller plates ( i , i ) , which rest upon the truncated apices of the basals , while the radials rest in the angles formed by the adjacent sides of every two contiguous basals .
Four of these five interradial plates terminate in a free edge at the margin of the disc ; but the fifth , that on the anal side , bears a small tapering appendage of four or five joints , the last of which seems to end freely ( Plate 71 , figs. 2 , 4 , 5 , act ) .
The arms are composed of somewhat elongated joints , the second of which ( Plate 71 , figs. 1 , 2 , 4 , b2 ) bears the first pinnule .
This is on the right side in three arms , and on the left in the other two .
A similar variation occurs in Eudiocrinus semperi , but I do not attach much importance to it .
The pinnules are very slender and delicate .
The disc resembles that of Hyocrinus .
Its central portion is occupied by a relatively large oral pyramid ( Plate 71 , fig. 5 , o ) , while between this and the margin are two or three irregular rows of small anambulacral plates ( Plate 71 , figs. 1\#151 ; 5 , an ) , some of them extending up on to the lower part of the long anal tube ( at ) .
The large size and comparatively dense appearance of these orals indicates that they are not undergoing the process of resorption as those of other Comatulce do .
In some species ( e.g. , Ant. dentata , Say = A. sarsi , Dub .
and Kok .
) the process is completed long before the end of the pentacrinoid stage ; but in rosacea the orals persist in a partially resorbed condition after the loss of the stem , though they soon disappear completely .
Themmatocrinus is thus the only Comatula yet known in which the oral plates of the larva persist , as they do in Hyocrinus and The other peculiarities CR1N0ID FROM THE SOUTHERN SEA .
which it exhibits are ( 1 ) the appearance of a closed ring of basals on the exterior of the calyx ; ( 2 ) the separation of the radials by inter-radial plates ; ( 3 ) the presence of a jointed arm-like appendage on the inter-radial of the anal side .
The persistence of the oral and basal plates of the larva , together with the small size of the specimen , might be thought to indicate that is merely a type in which the resorption of the orals and the metamorphosis of the basals into a rosette take place unusually late .
But as I have already pointed out , the condition of the centrodorsal , and of the cirri which it bears , is evidence that the specimen must have been detached from its stem for some little time , while the orals show no signs of any approaching resorption .
The existence of the interradials also decidedly indicates that the basals on which they rest form a permanently closed ring on the exterior of the calyx .
This is the case in but a very few either recent or fossil .
Schluter mentions a Cretaceous species in which it occurs ; * while there are several forms , both of Cretaceous and of Jurassic age , in which the basal ring is incomplete , and the radials partly rest on the centrodorsal .
But the only recent type in which the basals remain visible on the exterior of the calyx is the curious genus Atelecrinus ; t and here they are very small in proportion to the radials .
In all other recent Comatulce the basals disappear from the exterior of the calyx towards the end of Pentacrinoid life , and become transformed into the rosette .
Some species remain much longer in the Pentacrinoid stage than others ; so that of two calices of equal size , the one may be still attached to a stem , the top joint of which bears but a few rudimentary cirri , and have large basals ; while the other has a centrodorsal bearing 15 or 20 cirri , and concealing both the basals , and a part of the first radials .
Antedon rosacea and A. dentata ( A. sarsi , Dub .
and Kor .
) are two excellent instances of this difference , the latter attaining a length of 40 millims. in the Pentacrinoid state .
A similar condition is presented by a Pentacrinoid which was dredged by the " Porcupine , " and is probably to be referred to eschrichti , or to Ant. It is stouter and altogether more robust than any larva of Ant. dentata which I have seen ; and though its radials are as large as those of the free yet its basals are actually higher than those of the single specimen of the latter type ; while the centrodorsal on which they rest has merely a few imperfect cirrus-stumps , and is scarcely larger than the stem-joints below it .
On the other hand , another latva from near Ascension ( S. 344 ; 420 fathoms ) has equally large radials resting directly on the centrodorsal , which bears about eight well-developed cirri ; but the basals have already disappeared from the exterior of the calyx .
An earlier stage in the development of this same larva is shown in Plate 71 , fig- 0 , for comparison with Thaumatocrinus .
Although the calyx and arms are well developed , the basals ( b ) * Zeitschr .
d. Deutsch .
Geol .
Gesellsch .
, Jahrg , 1878 , p. 66 .
t Bull .
Mus. Comp. Zool. , vol. ix .
, No. 4 , 1881 , p. 16 , pi .
i- , figs. 1-7 .
x This is the Ant. celticci of Marenzeller , and of Duncan and Sladen ; non Barrejx .
separate the radials ( r ) from the centrodorsal ( cd ) , which is , as yet , but slightly differentiated from the stemjoints below it .
In all cases , however , the basals become concealed very soon after the conclusion of the Pentacrinoid stage , if not before .
I can find no trace of them in various abyssal Comat idee , which are no larger than Thaumatocrinus renovatus , and suspect therefore that in this type they persist through life as they do in Atelecrinus .
Were they really only larval basals , and destined to have been eventually transformed into a " rosette , " Thaumatocrinus would present a still more curious combination of characters than it actually does .
Both the persistence of the basals and the considerable development of the orals are characters which , either singly or combined , would cause the type to be regarded as one of no little interest ; but they are altogether cast into the shade by the other peculiarities of the calyx , viz. , the complete separation of the radials by relatively large interradial plates , and the presence of the anal appendage .
It might perhaps be suggested that the ten-rayed Promachocrinus affords some explanation of the first of these points .
In this genus * the basals only exhibit a pentamerous symmetry , for the rosette into which they become transformed is connected with a basal star of five rays only , just as in any other Comatula .
These five basal rays are attached to the dorsal surfaces of five out of the ten radials so as to partially separate them from the centrodorsal .
These radials , therefore , are really interradial in position , and so correspond to the five interradial plates of Thaumatocrinus .
But here the resemblance ceases ; for the " interradial radials " of Promachocrinus precisely resemble the five true radials with which they alternate , and the arms borne by the two sets of plates are indistinguishable .
I cannot , therefore , regard Promachocrinus as anything but a very regular variation of the usual pentamerous symmetry of the Crinoids .
Failing Promachocrinus , there is no other Neocrinoid which presents anything like the remarkable morphological condition of Thaumatocrinus .
To find a corresponding developmental stage we must go back to a very early period in the ontogeny of a Crinoid , i.e. , one but little later than the appearance of the rudiments of the lowest arm-plates .
The radials first appear as isolated plates in the spaces " where the upturned angles of two oral plates are opposed to the bevelled off upper angles of two adjacent basals."+ They gradually increase in size , and ere long come to form a nearly complete circle , two of them being separated for a time by the anal plate .
This is eventually lifted out from between them , but the radials of Ant. rosacea do not come into complete lateral contact until after the appearance of the first whorl of cirri .
In the larva represented in Plate 71 , fig. 6 , however , the cirri do not appear until the radials have met laterally , and the arm-bases are well developed .
The radials of a mature Comatula , therefore , form a closed ring of five plates ; and any interradials which may subsequently appear are limited to the angles between adjacent second * Proc. R. S. , No. 194 , 1879 , p. 385 ; see also Journ. Linn. Soc. Zool. , vol. xv .
, p. 214 , pi .
12 , fig* .
28 .
t C. Wyville Thomson , " On the Embryogeny of Antedun , " Phil. Trans. , 1865 , p. 528 .
CRINOID FROM THE SOUTHERN SEA .
and third radials , though sometimes attaining a considerable relative size and importance , as m ( Tucttai dzcrtnus and some species oi It is well known that many peculiarities which are merely transitory in young larvae of the Neocrinoids , are permanently retained in some of the Palseocrinoids .
This is the case , for example , with the primitive position of the anal plate within the ring of ( first ) radials of the larval Antedon .
Thus in the Devonian genus Hexacrinus ( Austin ) , and in some allied forms from the Carboniferous limestone among the Platycrindce , two of the five radials are separated permanently by a single large anal plate ; and the still earlier condition , before the radials have come into lateral contact at all , finds a parallel in the remarkable genus from the Trenton and Hudson River groups ( Lower Silurian ) of North America .
In this type , however , the radials are separated by what Messrs. Wachsmuth and Springer t describe as an \lt ; \#163 ; interradial series resting directly upon the basals , consisting of a very large number of minute pieces of irregular form , and without definite arrangement .
" A similar development of small irregular plates between the rays occurs in many Neocrinoids , both stalked and free , but the interradial series always commence at the level of the second or third radials , and are completely separated from the basals by the ring of united first radials .
Now in Thaumatocrinus we not only find the primitive lateral separation of the radials to be permanent , as in Reteocrinus , but instead of the small and irregular interradials which rest on the basals of that type , Thaumatocrinus has one relatively large plate between every two radials ( Plate 71 , figs. 1-4 , i ) .
This is , as it were , a further development of the embryonic condition , but in a new direction .
It is , however , one which is not to be found in any Neocrinoid , either recent or fossil , and it is only among certain of the Palaeozoic Rliodocrini that a similar peculiarity presents itself .
Messrs. Wachsmuth and Springer have grouped the genera in which it occurs into a special section , Rliodocrinites.\ They are ( Hall ) ; Rhipido- crinus ( Beyrich ) ; Thylacocrinus ( Oeiilert ) ; W. and S. ) ; Rhodocrinus ( Miller ) ; and Ollacrinus ( Cumberland ) .
All of them have a ring of ten plates resting on the basals , viz. , the radials and five interradials of about the same size .
This is well shown in the diagram of the calyx of ( Plate 71 , fig. 7 ) , which 1 have copied from that given by Oehlert .
S While resembling the Rhodocrinites in having five large plates separating the radials , Thaumatocrinus differs from them , and from most Palaeocrinoids , in the absence of any higher series of calicular interradial plates resting upon the first series which * * * S * Of Billings , emend .
Wachsmuth and Springer .
t " Revision of the Palseocrinoidea , " Part II .
, p. 192 .
From the Proceedings of the Philadelphia Academy , July 26 , 1881 , p. 366 .
+ Ibid. , pp. 182-184 .
S " Description de deux nouveaux genres de Crino'ides du terrain devonien de la Mayenne .
Bull .
Soc. Geol .
de France .
3e Ser. , Tom. vii .
, pi .
1 .
, fig. 2 .
.924 MR. P. H. CARPENTER ON A NEW separate the radials .
Except on the anal side , these primary interradial plates of Thaumatocrinus end simply in a free rounded edge at the margin of the disc ( Plate 71 , figs. 1-3 , 5 , i ) , which is doubtless due to the simplicity of the arms ; for these become free almost at once , and are not connected laterally by much perisome , in which higher orders of interradials could be supported .
But in the presence of the appendage on the azygous interradial ( Plate 71 , figs. 2 , 4 , 5 , Thaumatocrinus hears a remarkable resemblance to Reteocrinus .
The latter genus was established by Billings on some badly preserved fragments from the Trenton limestone of Ottawa.* Meek , and Wetherby have since described some species of presenting very similar characters to those of Billings ' genus , and have noted the resemblance between them ; while Wetherbyt subsequently came to the conclusion " that several forms of our so-called Glyptocrinus should be referred to this genus .
" Wachsmuth and Springer | have accordingly reconstructed Reteocrinus , and have proposed as type of the genus Glyptocrinus nealli ( Hall ) , a proceeding for which they have been severely criticised by Miller .
S The original examples of Billings ' type sjoecies were so imperfectly preserved , that the distinctive characters of his genus were incompletely known .
As , however , Wachsmuth and Springer , like Wetherby , fully believed Glyptocrinus nealli to be a Reteocrinus , I do not see how they could have redefined the genus better than by selecting such a well-known species as their type .
Taking Reteocrinus then as defined by Wachsmuth and Springer , we find that its posterior interradial area is wider than the other four , " with a conspicuous row of decidedly larger and more prominent special anal plates along the median part .
" Billings gives a good figure of this structure in R. and speaks of it as follows : " If this series of joints constitute a true arm , then there must be six arms in this species .
" The same feature appears , though less prominently , in R. nealli ( Hall ) sp. , and in R. haeri ( Meek ) sp. , and also in R. richardsoni ( Wetherby ) , though in R. gracilis ( Wetherby ) and R. cognatus ( Miller ) sp. , it appears to be absent .
It is unusually distinct , however , in Xenocrinus penicillus ( Miller ) ( Plate 71 , fig. 8 ) , a type which closely resembles Reteocrinus in general appearance ; and I fully agree with Messrs. Wachsmuth and Springer** in thinking that it should * * * S ** * ' Canadian Organic Remains .
' Decade iv .
, p. 63 .
t " Description of new Eossils from the Lower Silurian and Subcarboniferous Rocks of Ohio and Kentucky .
" Journ. Cincinnati Soc. Not .
Hist. , vol. iv .
, April , 1881 , p. 7 ( of separate copy ) .
X Revision .
II .
, p. 191 .
S " Description of Two New Genera and Eight New Species of Fossils from the Hudson River Group .
" Journ. Cincinnati Soc. Not .
Hist. , vol. v. , April , 1882 , pp. 12 , 13 ( of separate copy ) .
|| Op. cit. , p. 64 , pi .
9 , fig. 4a .
ll c* Description of Some New and Remarkable Crinoids and other Fossils of the Hudson River Group , and notice of Strotocrinus bloomfieldensis .
" Journ. Cincinnati Soc. Not .
Hist. , vol. iv .
, April , 1881 , ph 1 , fig. 3 , and pi .
4 , fig. 4 , pp. 71-73 .
** Revision .
II .
, p. 185 .
CRINOID FROM THE SOUTHERN SEA .
be associated with the Rhodocrinidcerather than with the to some of which ( e.g. , Melocrinus)it would be allied , owing to the presence of a tetramerous base .
Wachsmuth and Springer point out that " no Actinocrinoidhas ever been discovered in which the interradial field , except at the azygous side , extends to the basal disc .
" But Miller s description , which is borne out by his figures ( one of which is reproduced in Plate 71 , fig. 8 ) , runs as follows !
" The azygous area is remarkably large , and covered in the central part by $ vertical series of plates having about the same size as the regular radial series , and upon each side of the vertical series there is a depressed area covered by small plates having a tubercle in the central part , as in the regular interradial areas .
There are seven plates , each having a length about twice as great as its width , in the vertical series , from the basal plate upon which the series rests to the top of the vault .
This vertical series is continued to the top of the proboscis , and contains in its entire length more than fourteen plates .
It has such strong resemblance to the radial series , except as to the branching at the secondary radials , that the general appearance of the body is that of a species having six radial series .
" There can , I think , be no reasonable doubt that the anal appendage of crinus , although free laterally , owing to the simplicity of the rays , is homologous with the vertical series of plates in the anal interradius of and ; and it is not a little curious to find a character which died out some time before the Mesozoic epoch recurring in a recent I am quite at a loss as to the probable function of this anal appendage in Thaumatocrinus , but it seems to differ from that of the Palseocrinoids in one point , for Miller describes it in Xenocrinus as continued to the top of the proboscis , which is not the case in Thaumatocrinus .
The lower part of the anal tube bears plates , but they are continuous with those covering the disc over which the anal appendage arches , without , however , forming any connexion with the plates in question .
It is difficult to consider the existence of interradials and of the anal appendage of Thaumatocrinus as instances of atavism , for no known Neoerinoid presents any similar characters , and it is a long way back from a recent Comatula to a Palaeozoic Crinoid .
The appendage soon disappeared , both the genera possessing it being of Lower Silurian age ; but Crinoids with the interradials resting on the basals persisted into the Carboniferous period , and possibly also some with an anal appendage .
Nothing of the kind is visible , however , in any genus of Neocrmoids , so that the reappearance of these characters in such a specialised type as a is not a little surprising .
Associated with them we find the distinctly embryonic characters of persistent basal and oral plates , the latter occurring in no other Comatula , togethei with the simplicity of the undivided arms .
Thaumatocrinus is thus a type of unusual interest , and should be sought for carefully in any future deep-sea explorations .
It is evident that the possibilities of the abyssal fauna are by no means exhausted yet .
The presence of the oral pyramid in Thaumatocrinus , as in suggests the idea that the little specimen obtained from a depth of 2,325 fathoms , at Station 223 in the east Pacific , may , perhaps , be related to the former genus .
Sir Wyyille Thomson'55 ' spoke of it as Hyocrinus bethellianus with the remark , " It is certainly in many respects very unlike the adult H. bethellianus , but it may possibly turn out to be the young of that species .
" No figure of it is to be found either in the " Atlantic " or in any of the numerous plates which were drawn at Edinburgh under Sir Wyville 's direction , and it is to be feared that this " beautiful little thing " has been mislaid , as Mr. Murray has been unable to discover it among the material which was in Sir Wyville 's hands at the time of his death .
The discovery of Thaumatocrinus restores the numerical equality between the living genera of Comatulce and of stalked Crinoids , and raises their joint total to twelve .
Species of every genus , except Holopus , have been obtained by the various British expeditions for deep-sea exploration , as shown in the following table :\#151 ; Family .
Genera .
Number of species obtained .
Remarks .
Antedon , Frem 83 Seven obtained by the " Porcupine " and the " Triton .
" The rest by the " Challenger .
" Actinometra , Mull 52 " Challenger .
" One by the Comatulidce . .
\lt ; [ " Porcupine .
" Promachocrinus , P.H.C 3 ? ?
Eudiocrinus , P.H.C 3 55 Atelecrinus , P.H.C 2 55 Thaumatocrinus , P.H.C. ... .
1 55 r Pentacrinus , Miller 5 One obtained by the " Porcupine ; " one species doubtful , Pentacrinidce .
-i i perhaps representing a new i i genus .
Metacrinus Wi .
Th. , and P.H.C. 10 One founded on stem fragments i only .
r Phizocrinus , Sars 2 " Challenger " and " Porcupine .
" Bourgueticrinidce \lt ; !
i Bathycrinus , Wi .
Th 3 One obtained by the " Porcul pine .
" Hyocrinidce .
Hyocrinus , Wt .
Th 1 Besides one doubtful young specimen .
General considerations .
The peculiarities of Reteocrinus , as well as of Thaumatocrinus , have suggested certain morphological considerations bearing on the various classifications of the Rhodocrinidce that have hitherto been proposed .
One cannot help wondering where the circular commissure of Reteocrinus " was situated .
In ordinary Crinoids with directly contiguous radials , each of them is traversed by a portion of the circular canal in which the commissure is lodged .
But * " Notice of New Living Crinoids belonging to the Journ. Linn. Soc. Zool. , vol. xiii .
, p. 55 .
CRINOID FROM THE SOUTHERN SEA .
in Reteocrinusand in Xenocrinus(Plate 71 , fig. 8 ) the isolated radials are quite narrow , and the interradial spaces separating them are sometimes twice their breadth .
How did the circular commissure traverse these spaces ?
AVhether there were canals in the radials or not , the interradial portions of the commissures must have been freely exposed to the body-cavity at the bottom of the calyx , for it is not likely either that the commissure was absent , or that it was situated within the ring of basal plates .
In this respect also , therefore , Reteocrinus presents an embryonic feature , for in the earlier stages of Pentacrinoid life the axial cords simply lie on the ventral surface of the radials and brachials , without having any channels hollowed out in these plates for their reception , as is subsequently the case ; and whatever was the case with the radials and basals of Reteocrinus , it is improbable that the irregular interradial plates which were crossed by the cords were in any way grooved for their reception.* These may fairly be regarded as corresponding to the numerous irregular plates which occur upon the disc and between the rays of many Neocrinoids .
Those of Reteocrinus , however , do not stop at the level of the second radials , but extend right down to meet the basals .
Sometimes there appear to be only one or two between every two radials , e.g. , R. gracilis , but in other cases the number seems to be larger , and the plates can hardly be regarded as the complete morphological equivalents of the larger and more regular single interradials which occur in the Rhodocrinidce .
The interradial portions of the circular commissure must have passed over the ventral surface of these large plates , if not actually piercing them .
The same must be the case in Thaumatocrinus , and unless its radials are different from those of all other Neocrinoids , the axial cords must be lodged in canals , which is probably also true for the interradials .
In any case , however , the relation of these plates to the axial cords shows that they belong , like the radials and basals , to the radial system , rather than to the perisomatic .
It is not easy to make out their homologies in other Echinoderms , but they are perhaps represented in the disc of an Ophiurid by the proximal row of intermediate plates , while the interradials generally correspond to the distal rows .
The morphological differences involved in the separation or lateral union of the * Muller , and more recently Zittel , have considered the presence or absence of canals within the calyx-plates as affording an important character which distinguishes the Palaeozoic from the youngei Crinoids .
There are many Palaeocrinoids , however , in which these canals are present , e.g. , Platycrinus , and all forms with true articular facets on the distal faces of the radials .
has , nevertheless , been placed by Professor Chapman in his division the calyx and arm-plates of which are " without internal canals " ( See " A Classification of Crinoids , " read before the Royal Society of Canada , May 26 , 1882 ) .
Strangely enough , Marsupites is placed in the same division , although any specimen with a good articular surface on the radials shows the opening of the central canal as distinctly as possible , and the canal actually pierces the substance of the plate , not ending ahiuptly on its ventral surface , as in the radials of Gupressocrinus .
6 c 2 ( first ) radials seem to have been first noticed by Zittel.* For lie made them a fundamental distinction between the two families of and in which he placed several genera that had been somewhat scattered in previous classifications .
To the latter he referred types with a more or less depressed or spherical calyx , in which the lowest interradials rest directly on the basals , and form , together with the radials , a ring of ten alternating plates , e.g. , and Ollacrinus .
In the Glyptocrinidce , on the other hand , the calyx is higher , and the lowest interradials rest upon the upper edges of contiguous radials .
This family includes Glyptocrinus and Glyptaster(Hall ) , with ( Angelin ) , and also Thylacocrinus ( Oehlert ) , which seems somewhat out of place ; for it has a large globular calyx , and five large interradials , which completely separate the radials from one another ( Plate 71 , fig. 7 ) .
Messrs. Wachsmuth and Springer t express considerable doubt whether the differences between these two families in Zittel 's classification , " even if they were persistent , can be deemed sufficient for a family distinction .
of the Rhodocrinidce has generally at four sides the first interradial disposed between the first and second radials ; while in Thylacocrinus , according to Oehlert 's figure ( Plate 71 , fig. 7 ) , all five first interradials rest directly upon the basals .
" I must confess that I cannot quite follow this argument .
The referred to is Hall 's type of that name , which Wachsmuth and Springer subsequently place under Dimerocrinus ( Phillips ) ; and in their generic diagnosis of it they say , " Interradial areae composed of but few plates , the first one large , placed between the second radials , and leaning partly against the third , with two small plates above .
Posterior , or anal area wider , the first plate in line with the first radials , and of the same size .
" Thylacocrinus , on the other hand , is said to have " Interradials numerous , the lower one resting directly on the basals ; " all five interradials meet the basals , and not that on the anal side only .
This difference is further recognised by Wachsmuth and Springer , for they place the two genera in different sections of their family Rhodocrinidce ; and I do not , therefore , see the force of their doubts respecting the persistency of the characters in this portion of Zittel 's classification .
In fact , they make great use of the position of the lowest interradials in defining their subdivisions of the family .
According to their general description of the Rhodocrinidce , " In most of the genera the first interradial rests directly upon the truncate upper side of the basals , thereby separating the first radials all round .
In others , however , only the first plate of the posterior or anal side is supported by a basal , that of the other four sides being placed against the upper corners of the first , and between the second radials , the former producing an almost pentahedral , the latter a more or less bilateral symmetry .
" This * ' Palaeontologie , ' pp. 374-370 .
f Revision .
II .
, pp. 181 , 182 .
CRINOID FROM THE SOUTHERN SEA .
029 is perfectly true , and the distinction sharply marks off the section of bilateral Glyptasterites from the pentahedral Rhodocrinites .
The section Glyptocrinites , however , is somewhat heterogeneous .
Its calyx is said to be almost perfectly pentahedral with the " interradial areas depressed , the first plate resting either directly upon the basals , or between the second and third radials , without special anal plate beneath their line .
" Only three genera are included in this section , and Messrs. Wachsmuth and Springer seem to have been somewhat uncertain about so grouping them ; for they remark ( p. 183 ) , " It might have been not out of the way if we had placed the genus in a group by itself , as it differs from Archceocrinus and Reteocrimis , with which it has been associated , and from all other Rhodocrinidce* in having the first plate at each interradial side placed between the second radials .
" In Archceocrinus ( W. and S. ) , on the other hand , the lowest interradials rest directly upon the basals , as is also the case with the small and irregular interradials of Reteocrinus .
Both these genera , therefore , have isolated radials and a pentahedral symmetry ( " somewhat bilateral " in Reteocrinu ) just as in the Rhodocrinites .
But the latter lack the " rounded strongly elevated ridges " which distinguish the radials of Archceocrinus and Reteocrinus .
This , however , is merely a character in the superficial ornamentation of the calyx ; and it seems to me of altogether minor importance as compared with the morphological differences between the lateral union and the isolation of the radials .
In this last feature Archceocrinus and Reteocrinus resemble the Rhodocrinites , and if the limits of that section could not be enlarged to receive them , they might very well be left in a group by themselves , distinguished by their ornamentation .
But they are out of place by the side of Glyptocrinus , with its radials united laterally .
It thus represents a comparatively late ontogenetic condition , not even the radials of the posterior side being separated by an anal plate as in the Glyptasterites .
There are , doubtless , close affinities and remarkable transition forms between Glyptocrinus and Reteocrinus , as asserted by Messrs. Wachsmuth and Springer .
But these depend very largely upon the characters of the rays and arms , which are of a comparatively subordinate value ; while the lateral separation of the radials in the last named genus , and in the Rhodocrinites , is a fact of considerable importance in Crinoid Morphology .
It must be remembered also that Glyptocrinus has decided affinities with some of the earlier Actinocrinidce , certain species appearing to be without under-basals .
In fact , according to the American authors , " It is a question whether that genus , at least partly , should not be arranged with the other group altogether .
' Thus , then , I would divide the Rhodocrinidce ( W. and S. ) into groups as follows .
* The italics are mine .
I. Eadials completely separated laterally , either by single interradial plates , or by groups of small ones .
a. No ridges on the radials ft. With ridges on the radials Khodocrinites ( W. and S. ) Archceocrinus .
Reteocrinus .
II .
The two posterior radials separated by an anal plate which rests on a basal ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... W.andS .
) III .
Eadials in contact all round the calyx ... ... ... ... .Glyptocrinus .
I cannot help suspecting , however , that Zittel 's arrangement of these genera into two families , Glyptocrinidce and Rhodocrinidce , is the most natural one ; though I should place Thylacocrinus in the latter , and not in the former as he has done .
Postscript .
( Added February 1 , 1884 .
) During the past year the peculiarities of Thaumatocrinus have naturally been much in my mind , and I have been led to believe that the structure which I have called the anal appendage is represented in other Palseocrinoids besides the two Silurian genera already mentioned .
Wachsmuth and Springer * describe Taxocrinus and Onychocrinus as having a small lateral proboscis in the anal area , which consists of a series of from two to six narrow quadrangular plates , longitudinally arranged , and resting on the upper surface of a basal .
Meek and WoRTHENt spoke of it in Onychocrinus as " really looking very much like a diminutive arm rising from the anal area and they subsequently found the remainder of the anal interradius to be occupied by a great number of minute irregular plates , which pass gradually upwards into those of the " vault , " just as in Reteocrinus and Xenocrinus .
If Thaumatocrinus were a larger type , with plated perisome between the rays , as in Pentacrinus asteria , its tapering anal appendage would be in the same condition as that of Onychocrinus , becoming merged above into the general plating of the anal interradius .
I do not think , therefore , that Wachsmuth and Springer are quite correct in describing Taxocrinus and Onychocrinus as having " a small lateral tube .
" That the arm-like series of plates supported the lower portion of the anal interradius is doubtless true .
But I do not imagine the plates to have been in any way hollowed on their inner sides for the reception of the hind-gut .
This undoubtedly opened to the exterior at a higher level , through a regular anal tube just as in other Crinoids .
* Revision .
I. , pp. 46-53 .
t ' Palaeontology of Illinois , ' vol. ii .
, p. 243 ; vol. iii .
, p. 494 .
CRINOID FROM THE SOUTHERN SEA .
Excellent figures of the anal series in are given by Schultze* and Angelin , !
while that of Onychocrinus is well represented by Meek and Worthen .
] ; These figures may be advantageously compared with those of on Plate 71 .
Since the preceding paper was presented to the Society in April , 1883 , the discussion between Messrs. Miller and Wachsmuth respecting the nature of has been carried on with considerable vigour .
Stimulated by Miller 's criticisms , Messrs. Wachsmuth and Springer were able ( with the help of Mr. W. R. Billings ) to demonstrate a considerable amount of resemblance between Reteocrinusstellaris ( Billings ) , and ( Hall ) .
Both types have ( 1 ) the under-basals visible externally , ( 2 ) the radials separated laterally by the lowest interradials , which rest on the basals , and ( 3 ) a prominent median row of plates in the anal interradius ; though Wachsmuth and Springer do not lay much stress upon the last point .
" Reteocrinus is readily identified by its highly elevated radial ridges , and depressed interradial spaces , filled with numerous small plates of irregular arrangement , and extending between the first radials down to the basals ; by its under-basals , often well developed ; its strongly marked bilateral symmetry ; and by its ten primary arms as a rule."S Miller replied by giving a detailed comparison of Glyptocrinus nealli and Reteocrinus stellaris , and believed himself to have found such great differences between them , " that it is doubtful whether they should even be classified in the same family/ '|| He lays much stress upon differences in the general aspect of the cup and arms ; a little more so , perhaps , than is necessary , considering the poor state of preservation of the Canadian specimens .
Two points , however , seem to me to be of greater importance .
In all the species which have been lately referred to Reteocrinus by Wachsmuth and Springer , the under-basals are poorly developed , or perhaps even absent ; while the third radial is the axillary .
But in R. stellaris there are quite large under-baScfis , and the fourth radial is the axillary ; and I have some doubt , therefore , as to the advisability of referring to this little-known generic type a number of species which do not present these characters , more especially the latter one .
I hey all agree , however , with Reteocrinus stellaris in a feature which both Wachsmuth and Springer and I myself regard as specially distinguishing Reteocrinus from Glyptocrinus , viz. , * * * S * " Monographic der Echinodermen des Eiflerkalkes .
" Denkschr .
d. Wiener Akad .
Bd .
xxvi .
, 1866 .
Taf .
iv .
, figs. 2 , 2b,3 , 4b .
t " Iconographia Crinoideorum , " \amp ; c. Stockholm , 1878 .
Tab. xviii .
, fig. 8 .
Tab. xx .
, figs. 9 , 13 , 16 .
Tab. xxiii .
, fig. 5 .
+ ' Palaeontology of Illinois , ' vol. v. , pi .
xiv .
, fig. 4 .
S " Remarks on Glyptocrinus and Iteteocrinus , two genera of Silurian Crinoids .
Amer .
Jouin .
Sci. , yoI .
xxv .
, April , 1883 , pp. 265-266 .
|| " Response to the Remarks of Messrs. Wachsmuth and Speinger on the geneia Reteocrinus .
" Amer .
Jonrn .
Sci. , August , 1883 , p. 112 .
032 MR. P. H. CARPENTER ON A NEW the separation of the first radials by the calyx-interradials .
Walcott * has recently pointed out that a new species , which he has described as possessing this character , " departs from the typical form of Glyptocrinusand he suggests its reference to another generic type .
Miller , however , regards this striking difference in the position of the lowest interradial as of no systematic value whatever , even for specific classification .
For he identifies Reteocrinus gracilis ( Wetherby ) , with a type previously described by himself as Glyptocrinus angular is , and since recognised by Wachsmuth as a true Ghyptocrinus .
The lowest interradials rest " between the upper sloping sides of the first radialswhile in R. gracilis the radials are widely separated laterally , and the lowest plates of the irregular interradial series rest upon the basals .
This feature also occurs in four species which are referred by Miller+ to Glyptocrinus , although in G. decadactylus , which he takes as his type , " the regular interradial areas have one plate resting upon the primary radials !
" But Miller goes even further than this .
He establishes a new genus , , for types hitherto described under Glyptocrinus , but possessing a dicyclic base ; and he refers to it five species , two of which are new .
In one of these , and in the three species previously known , the lowest interradials rest upon the basals .
But in Gaurocrinus splendens , n.sp .
, the large hexagonal basals are " not truncated upon the upper face by an interradial .
" Miller 's mode of classification , therefore , totally disregards such important morphological differences as the separation or lateral union of the primary radials ; and I cannot believe that it will find acceptance among philosophical palseontologists .
Gaurocrinus differs from Glyptocrinus in having a dicyclic base , J that of Glyptocrinus * " Descriptions of new species of Fossils , from the Trenton Group of New York .
" 35th Ann. Report N. Y. State Mus. Not .
Hist. , p. 2 ( of separate copy ) , t " Glyptocrinus redefined and restricted , Gaurocrinus Pycnocrinus , and established .
" Joum .
Cincinn .
Soc. Not .
Hist. , Dec. , 1883 , vol. vi .
, pp. 217-228 .
+ It is much to be regretted that Mr. Miller still uses the empirical and utterly irrational nomenclature , which is now being gradually replaced by a sysiem based upon sound morphological considerations .
He remarks that " the policy of changing the nomenclature may well be doubted , and ought not to be entered upon without the clearest conviction that , by so doing , error of some kind is being eradicated .
" No better illustration of such an error could be found than his statement that Gaurocrinus " is primarily distinguished from Glyptocrinus by possessing five sub-radials .
" This name was given by de Koninck to the so-called parabasals of Muller , " afin de fair comprendre qu'ils altement avec les radiales ; " and since " the presence or absence of sub-radial plates is regarded of special generic importance " by Mr. Miller , we are led to conclude that the " basals " of Glyptocrinus ( Miller ) , in which sub-radials are absent , do not alternate with the radials .
But this is exactly contrary to the fact !
Sub-radial plates , alternating with the radials , are invariably present ; and it is the radially situated under-basals which may be " present or absent .
" In the former case Mr. Miller calls them basals , which name he also gives to the sub-radial plates when there are no under-basals .
This method is doubtless both " easy " and " expressive .
" But it unfortunately implies an homology between the radially situated plates of one genus ( e.a. , , and plates which are interradial in another ( e.g. , Platycrinus ) ; and this is utterly opposed to the fundamental principles of morphology , not only in the Crinoids , but also in the Echinoderms generally .
CRJNOID FROM THE SOUTHERN SEA .
being monocyclic only .
It is curious , however , that Miller should make decadactylus the type of a genus , the speciality of which is the presence of a mono-cyclic base .
For Hall , Meek , and Wachsmuth* have all described it as being dicyclic , i.e. , as possessing under-basals .
It has been abundantly proved within the last few years that the presence or absence of under-basals upon the exterior of the calyx is a character which is generally of very little value for systematic purposes .
and Idctevocvmus afford good instances of this .
The late Mr. Meek , whose judgment Mr. Miller will hardly question , was fully aware of the great amount of variation in the cup of some species having one series of plates beneath the radials , and others , two ; while he further recognised that the upper row of the dicyclic base represents the single row of the monocyclic forms .
The same is the case with Glyptocrinus and its allies , as was recognised hy Wachsmuth and Springer , though Miller will not admit it .
One would like to know whether he would rearrange the species of on the principles which have led him to separate Gaurocrinusfrom Glyptocrinus .
Description of the Figures .
PLATE 71 .
The following lettering is used throughout all the figures :\#151 ; anal appendage ; an , anambulacral plates ; at , anal tube ; b , basals ; b2 , second brachial ; c , cirrus ; cd , centrodorsal ; i , interradial plates ; o , orals ; radials .
Figs. 1-5.\#151 ; Thaumatocrinus renovcitus .
All X 15 .
Figs. 1 and 2 .
Side views , radial .
In 1 , the right anterior , and in 2 , the right posterior ray faces the observer .
Figs. 3 and 4 .
Side views , interradial .
Fig. 3 shows the left anterior interradius with its single large interradial ( i ) and anambulacral plates ( an ) .
Fig. 4 shows the posterior or anal interradius , in which the interradial plate bears the jointed anal appendage ( aa ) .
Fig. 5 .
View of the disc from above , showing the anal tube and appendage , the oral pyramid , and the marginal zone of anambulacral plates .
Fig. 6 .
Radial view of an Antedon-Ventacrinoid from S. 344 .
showing the lateral union of the radials .
X 15 .
Fig. 7 .
Calyx of Thylacocrinus ; after Oehlert .
Fig. 8 .
Anal side of Xenocrinus penicillus , showing the anal appendage ( act ) ; after Miller .
* Revision .
II .
, p. 7 .
6 D jPH .
Carp Phil. Trans.1883 .
Plate 71 .
Serjesiu .
\amp ; Hiojkley del , et litk .
3Ti g. 5 .
Yv^ist ; lSre\\-i)fiaja.5c 0 ?
Htii. .
TKA .
UMATOCRINUS RENOVATITS , Nov. gen .
et Sjp .

