178 Messrs. J. B. Hannay and J. Hogarth .
[ Feb. ia .
' t*n .u that , from experiments made with this tube with M n S -chloride of silver battery on a former occasion , and quite1 " Ea of the present auestion.it 191 q ln\lt ; *ePenden*L of the present question , it was estimated that a^r electromotive force of 400 volts was necessary to effect ^ Other tubes were triod .
n.ntl gggggg , , oischarge Other tubes were tried , and were illuminated in^he ilSCbsa-When the tube was placed in the magnetic field tT ^3 underwent the modifications described by Plficker " chi % .others .
But it may be mentioned as a result the 1** strength of the field here employed that , whenever the rlir\#187 ; \#163 ; \gt ; n+r *-\-P SJ_ HOG gQ p.red that the direction of MHK\#187 ; \#166 ; with the lines of magnetic force passing through it the di .
K * H completely extinguished .
When the tabe \#174 ; rl^ef t " part of the field the discharge reappeared distorted MB , n a " \#166 ; to \#166 ; HH \#187 ; pSS February 26 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
forTt^emreSentS reCeived Were laid on the table , and thanks ordered The following Papers were read .__ 1 m/ tcs7 of S'Uds I Oases .
" By J. B. Hani cated by '\#163 ; SSg|H Ho\lt ; \#153 ; \gt ; \#166 ; Comm Wed Pebtary U , ^80"'^ ' D'C'L " LL'D " Sec. !
Royal Society^andof T6 P0W lla\#153 ; the honour of submitting to Society 's Proceedings , * was^^rt\#153 ; !1 !
?17 " otioe was .
Published in some further lie'ht n nL ^uted with the view of throv of matter .
In ^ farnouW ^ ^r ; Andrews calls the " critical sta cussion of the question H a a eidai1 leoture , after a very careful and under a pressure of lO^T 8ayB :+ " ^rbonic acid at 35*5 ' between the gas and th r .
atmosPheres , stands nearly mid assigning it to the on a / qu\d ' K \#166 ; have no valid grounds one form of ggm ^ more than ^ oth f 3KI Hi P- 324 .
T \#171 ; al. Trans. , " 1869 , p. 588 .
180 Messrs. J. B. Hannay and J. Hogarth .
[ Feb. 2(f gaseous state .
^ The property of dissolving solids being supposed peculiar to liquids , it seemed to us that on passing through the critical1 state there would be a precipitation of solid , or if on the other no separation occurred , a further proof of the perfect continuity* the gaseous and liquid states would be presented .
To put the matte* to the test , a solution of potassic iodide in alcohol was prepared , and a strong tube filled to about one-half with the solution .
After sealing .j the tube was placed in an air-bath , and heat applied .
ISTo precipitation of solid could be seen even at a temperature of 350 ' C. , morel than 100 ' C. above the critical point of alcohol .
For the examination of the phenomena of solution some form of I pressure apparatus was necessary , so that the volume of the fluid experimented on might be altered at pleasure .
After several experiments we adopted a modified form , of Dr. Andrews ' apparatus , which allowed us to change an experimental tube in a few minutes , and showed no sign of leakage at the highest pressure reached ( fig. 4 ) .
A section of the apparatus is shown in the annexed engraving .
It is made of wrought iron tubing such as is used in hydraulic machinery , about i inch internal , and 1 inch external diameter .
The length of the apparatus is 9 inches , and there is a side tube welded on , measuring about 3 inches , for the insertion of the manometer tube .
On the eilds of the tube are screwed strong caps , also of wrought iron ; Through one of these the pressure screw works , the others serve for the admission of the experimental and manometer tubes .
The distinguishing feature of the apparatus is the packing for the screw and tubes .
It consists of a solid plug of india-rubber , about ^ inch thick , placed in the hollow cap , so that it serves both for packing the screw or tube , and for making the joint between the cap and the iron tube tight .
To prevent the pressure screw from cutting the india-rubber , f a lining of thin leather , well soaked in lard , was placed between itl and the rubber .
The tubes were similarly packed , and to keep them j from being forced out through the aperture in the cap , a thickening l was made in the glass by f using and pressing together , and between 5 this bulbous part and the iron a strong leather washer was placed .
] In some cases , when a very high pressure was wanted , the tube was 1 cemented in with oxychloride of zinc , which effectually prevented it 1 from coming in contact with the iron cap. WTth this mode of j packing the pressure screw did not require to be very fine , the one 1 commonly used being ^ inch in diameter and screwed 30 threads to 1 the inch .
The only limit to the pressure was the frailty of the glass i tubes ; we have , however , attained a pressure of 880 atmospheres as j shown by an air manometer , and even at this enormous pressure the 1 screw could be freely moved in either direction without leakage .
The j apparatus was as tight with mercury as with water , so that there was J no necessity for using two liquids as in Dr. Andrews ' machine .
When ; 1880 ] On the Solubility of Solids in Gases .
181 I .wh temperature was required , the experimental tube was bent iver as shown in the drawing , and passed into an air-bath formed of L0 concentric iron cylinders .
The cylinders had mica windows , hrough which the experiment could be observed , and to ensure Perfect regularity of temperature , the inner one was lined with cement kbout1 inch thick .
As in most of our experiments it was quite un-kecessary to know the pressure , a simple straight tube was used instead of the T-shaped one described .
It was screwed to fit the same Laps , and from its simplicity made a very convenient and efficient apparatus . . .
f The experiments with the sealed tube showed us that no deposit ot isolid occurred above the critical point .
With the assistance of the apparatus just described , we were able to show a crystal of potassic iodide dissolving in alcohol gas ( using the word gas as Dr. Andrews proposes for a fluid at any temperature above its critical point ) .
Having fixed a tube ( internal diameter *75 mm. , external 7 mm. ) , in the apparatus previously filled with mercury , some alcohol was sucked in by gradually withdrawing the pressure screw .
By a further withdrawal of the screw , the little thread of alcohol was moved inwards past a constriction made in the glass tube near the end , and a small fragment of fused potassic iodide dropped in so as to rest on the ^narrow neck .
Sufficient heat was now applied to boil the alcohol and expel the air , and the end of the tube strongly sealed with the blowpipe .
The tube being placed in its position in the bath , heat was applied and the pressure regulated so as to keep the alcohol from passing round the bend into the other limb of the U tube .
The tube and its contents were thus raised to a temperature of 300 ' C. ( the critical point of alcohol as will be shown is 234'*4 0 .
) , the crystal never having come in contact with the liquid alcohol .
Pressure was now applied until the alcohol was reduced to about the volume occupied by it while still liquid , when the fragment of iodide was seen to dissolve gradually and completely .
On withdrawing the screw slowly no deposit occurred even when the volume was very considerably increased , but by taking off the pressure very rapidly a crystalline film appeared on the glass , and in some cases , a cloud of fine crystals floating in the menstruum .
These crystals could be easily redissolved by again increasing the pressure . .
The deposit most frequently occurred just at the surface of the mercury , and this we ascribe to a local rarefaction caused by the slightly higher temperature of the mercury .
The fact of the existence of solvent power above the critical point .being established by this experiment , we next sought to examine the phenomenon by using other solvents and solids .
The sealed tube method was found most convenient for this purpose , an experiment with the pressure apparatus being resorted to when we wished to vary the volume .
The tube was filled from half to two-thirds with the 182 Messrs. J. B. Haimay and J. Hogartli .
[ Feb. 2(5 solution to be tested , and by a few experiments the strength of t ] solution was so adjusted that no separation of solid took place whD the tube was completely filled by expansion .
The behaviour of a solution of potassic iodide we have alread-described .
Bromide of potassium gave a similar result .
The solubility !
of chloride of calcium in alcohol was found to be uninterrupted by th !
passage of the alcohol through the critical state .
Cobaltous chloride ( anhydrous ) remained in solution at 320'C .
the highest temperatur , reached m this experiment , and the beautiful blue colour of the !
solution was unimpaired .
Ferric chloride ( sublimed ) gave a yellow fluid at a temperature of 260 ' C. This yellow colour rapidly disaJ peared , and a reddish-coloured powder separated out , which remained insoluble on cooling .
On opening the tube a strong ethereal odour was perceived .
This was most probably due to the formation of ethylic chloride .
Some peculiar phenomena observed when heating the ferric chloride solution deserve description .
At a temperature of 120 ' C.a very strongly coloured liquid layer appeared at the bottom of the tube , while the uppermost layer was perceptibly paler .
As the temperature rose the two layers gradually mixed and the fluid was quite homogeneous at and above the critical point .
A solution of ferric chloride in ether was distinctly coloured at least 30 ' C. above the critical point , but the colour gradually faded , and did not return on cooling .
The separation and redissolving of part of the ferric chloride occurred also with ether .
A solution of sulphur in carbon disulphide showed no separation of sulphur when raised 50 ' C. above its critical point .
Of course sulphur at this temperature is a liquid , but its vapour tension is comparatively so small that its solution is worth recording .
Selenium also remained in solution in carbon disulphide above its critical point , and separated out in part when the solution cooled .
Chemical action evidently took place in this experiment , for on evaporating a portion f\gt ; f the solution after heating , a reddish-yellow residue containing selenium was obtained .
The liquid had a distinct horse-radish smell , j and on burning gave a dark stain on a piece of porcelain held in the 1 flame .
Sulphide of selenium was most probably formed .
An attempti was made to dissolve cadmic sulphide in carbon disulphide , butf without success .
In an experiment with metallic arsenic and carbon disulphide the arsenic seemed to dissolve , but as an orange-coloured 1 film appeared on the glass on cooling , we are inclined to doubt its I solubility .
When some sulphur was enclosed in the tube with arsenic J and carbon disulphide , and the temperature raised above the critical \ point , solution occurred , and when the temperature was allowed to 1 fall a separation of dense liquid drops took place at the critical point .
1 At a lower temperature these solidify and form reddish-yellow crystals .
1 The apparent solubility of arsenic was thus probably due to its con1880 .
] Orc the Solubility of Solids Gases .
version into a sulphide , and the subsequent solution of the sulphide formed .
Carbon tetrachloride was also tried as a solvent , but as the number jf substances soluble in this fluid is very small , we can only record a .few negative experiments .
Cupric chloride did not dissolve , but appeared to be acted on chemically above the critical point , its colour fehanging to brown .
Chromic chloride showed no sign of solution .
i'Zinc oxide did not dissolve , but at a temperature 20 ' or 30 ' above the Critical point a sudden chemical change occurred , and as a result the critical point was found to be lowered from 280 ' C. to about 200 ' .
On cooling some transparent globules were seen , and on opening the tube there was an outrush of gas .
The transparent globules dissolved in water , and were found to be chloride of zinc .
The use of water as a solvent was quite out of the question , both on I account of its high critical point and the corrosion of the glass tubes , so that we were debarred from the use of the liquid whose examination f promised most .
The mixture of light paraffins known as paraffin spirit was tried as a solvent for some organic substances .
A solution of resin in this i liquid remained perfectly bright and without sign of separation at a temperature of 350 ' to 360 ' , almost 100 ' above the critical point .
The examination of liquids to determine their critical temperature and pressure was not exactly in the line of our research , but as Cagniard de la Tour 's numbers , so far as we are aware , are the only ones on record , we have made a number of experiments in this direction .
To obtain accurate measurements of pressure is a matter of very great difficulty , and as for our purpose these were not required , it would have made our research unnecessarily tedious to attempt it .
Our numbers are as follows :\#151 ; Mean temperature Alcohol .
Carbon disulphide .
Carbon tetrachloride .
234''6 47 2'06 65 atmos .
14 1*0 atmos .
272'*96 12 l'-34 77*9 atmos .
12 1*5 atmos .
277'*9 4 0o,69 58*1 atmos .
4 *55 atmos .
Number of experiments Probable error of a single experiment Mean pressure Number of experiments .
Probable error of a single experiment " 1 The alcohol used had a specific gravity of *7949 at 15''5 0 .
In the carbon tetrachloride experiments the mercury was attacked , but our numbers were taken as quickly as possible , and before chemical action had taken place to any great extent .
Cagniard de la Tour gives the following results for alcohol and carbon disulphide:\#151 ; VOL. xxx .
o Messrs. J. B. Hannay and J. Hogarth .
[ Feb. 26 Alcohol . . . .
258''7 C ... ... ... 119 atmospheres .
Carbon disulphide .
275o-0 C ... ... ... . .
8 , , The differences between Cagniard de la Tour 's numbers and out own in the case of alcohol are no doubt due to the difficulty of obtaining that body anhydrous .
As will be seen from the density given , the alcohol used in these experiments contained only a very small quantity of water , and was indeed practically anhydrous .
To determine whether the presence of a solid in solution affected the critical temperature and pressure , a cold saturated solution of potassic iodide in alcohol was prepared .
Experiments with this solution gave as the average of three trials\#151 ; temperature 237'-l C. , pressure 71T atmospheres .
The probable error of a single experiment is for the temperature 0o-37 C. , for the pressure 05 atmosphere .
The exact amount of solid present in solution when the readings were made it was impossible to determine ; for in altering the volume , so as to observe the critical point , a small quantity was deposited on the glass just at the end of the mercury column .
To make sure that some salt did remain in solution , we brought the mercury column up so as to cover the crystalline film , and after carefully examining to see that no solid particles were above the mercury , we allowed the fluid to cool under pressure .
When cold , the end of the capillary was broken off , and the liquid , which had been shut off by the mercury from contact with the crystalline deposit , received in a watch glass .
On evaporation it gave an appreciable residue .
These experiments seem to show that a liquid has its critical point raised by the solution in it of a solid .
As the solubility of potassic iodide in alcohol is very slight ( 1 part in 40 at 13''5 0 .
) we thought it advisable to try a solution of chloride of calcium in alcohol , so that the effect of solution on the pressure and temperature might be shown in a more marked degree .
On heating a cold saturated solution of calcic chloride ( anhydrous ) , a dense liquid layer was observed to form at the bottom when the temperature reached 230 ' C. ; at 240 ' 0 .
the line separating the lighter layer of liquid from vapour was very indistinct , and could not be distinguished at all above 250 ' C. ; at 255 ' C. the dense layer dissolved , but re-appeared when pressure was taken off .
When the volume was again reduced , it re-dissolved , and at 270 ' 0 .
expansion caused a deposition of crystals .
In this experiment there was no sharp critical point , and no pressure readings were taken .
A dense layer , it will be remembered , was also noticed in the ferric chloride experiment .
A combination of the chloride with part of the alcohol evidently occurs , and at a higher temperature diffusion takes place until the fluid is quite homogeneous .
While working with cobaltous chloride an interesting question presented itself to us\#151 ; Is the absorption spectrum of a substance dissolved in a fluid above its critical point the same as in liquid solution or in 1880.1 On the Solubility of Solids in Gases .
he solid state ?
To answer this question , a solution of anhydrous iobaltous chloride was sealed in a tube as before , and its spectrum observed while heat was applied .
No change could be detected in its Passage through the critical point , and a careful comparison of the jspectra of the same solution at 15 ' C. and at 300 ' C. showed no difference beyond the fainter and more nebulous character of the bands haused by expansion .
The position of the bands was not changed .
iOhloride of cobalt , however , was not well fitted for our purpose , the measurement of the bands being rather uncertain on account of the iaebulous nature of their edges .
At the suggestion of Professor Stokes , we turned our attention to the product of the decomposition of chlorophyll by acids .
The beautiful spectrum of a solution of this body in alcohol was quite permanent , even at a temperature of 350 ' C. , although when heated in air it decomposes below 200 ' 0 .
A direct comparison of the hot and cold solutions failed to show any change in the position of the lines .
A good opportunity of testing the question further seemed to be offered by the blue solution of sodium in liquefied ammonia , described by Gore.* To prepare this , we first tried compression of the gas by the pressure apparatus , but the quantity of liquid got by this method was too small for experiment .
We next tried a combination of Gore 's method with the pressure apparatus .
A tube , shaped as in the drawing , had the wide part charged with chloride of calcium saturated with ammonia , and the end sealed .
By applying slight heat , the air was expelled by the liberated ammonia .
A small piece of sodium was then placed in a pocket near the end of the experimental tube , and , after sealing , the tube was placed in the pressure apparatus and surrounded with mercury .
The iron tube was now heated by flaming with a Bunsen , and the experimental tube cooled in a freezing mixture .
Distillation of ammonia commenced , and when a sufficient quantity of liquid was obtained the pressure screw was advanced , until , coming in contact with the wide tube , it broke the narrow neck joining it with the experimental tube , and allowed the mercury to rush in and enclose the liquefied ammonia .
Further pressure brought the ammonia in contact with the sodium and solution commenced , but an unforeseen difficulty caused the experiment to fail , for the sodium solution coming in contact with the mercury was rapidly decolorised by it .
It was , therefore , necessary to dispense with the use of mercury .
Several methods were proposed , and we finally arrived at the following simple and effective one .
A piece of tubing , about \#163 ; inch diameter , was joined to a piece of marine barometer tubing , and just beside the join the latter was drawn out to an exceedingly fine bore .
The wide tube was now charged with ammonia-saturated chloride of * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxi .
186 Messrs. J. B. Harm ay and J. Hogarth .
[ Feb. 2 calcium and the end sealed .
A small piece of solid paraffin was th\lt ; dropped into the capillary tube so that it lay next the drawn oi portion .
When all air was expelled by heating slightly , a few fraj ments of sodium were placed in the tube and the whole sealed .
T1 arrangement is shown in the Plate , fig. 3 .
The end containing tl sodium being placed in a freezing mixture , the wide tube was car* fully heated until sufficient ammonia was distilled over .
When r\lt ; absorption commenced the fragment of paraffin was melted by tli application of a very small flame , and capillary attraction cause a it to run into the fine bore , where it solidified and prevented an passage of ammonia .
The tube now containing a solution of sodiui in ammonia , was next cut off near the join and the end sealet i ; in the blowpipe flame , the paraffin plug preventing outward pressure On heating the tube thus prepared in the air bath , the blue colon disappeared before the critical point was reached , and the loss o colour was accompanied by the deposit of a white powder .
It war at first thought that this was due to the presence of water in th* ammonia , but many experiments , in which every care was taken t\lt ; have the ammonia perfectly dry , failed to give any other result .
In one case only , when the temperature had been raised very rapidly , did | the blue colour remain above the critical point , and this only for a few seconds .
This chemical action most probably consists in the formation of sodamide , and this view is supported by the fact that one of the tubes opened under mercury gave a quantity of gas not dissolved by 1 water .
As the solution of an alkali metal seemed best adapted for spectroscopic examination , wre made an attempt to dissolve sodium in compressed hydrogen .
For this purpose a tube with a very large expansion was made , and filled with carefully dried hydrogen .
While the stream of gas was still passing , a small piece of sodium was placed in a pocket at the end of the tube , and the aperture closed before the blowpipe .
In this experiment we used no manometer , our intention c being to increase the pressure slowly and to make it as great as s. possible .
After about half an hour , at a pressure so far as we could judge of about 300 atmospheres , the mercury , which had never come i in contact with the solid sodium , was observed to become thick and pasty .
At this point the tube burst ( no further pressure had been t put on ) close to the iron cap , and on examining the broken piece small 1 semi-solid globules of mercury were observed adhering to the glass , s marking the highest point to which the mercury had reached .
These \gt ; were taken out and placed in water , when small bubbles of gas were observed rising from them .
In another experiment a small rod of 1 sodium , quite filling the capillary bore , was observed to be gradually corroded , until only a shell adhering to the glass remained .
The very frequent bursting of the tubes , made more frail by the reduction of Is 1880.1 \lt ; 9w the Solubility of Solids in Gases .
187 ead oxide , due to the action of hydrogen on the hot glass , makes the iemonstration of the solubility of sodium in hydrogen exceedingly lifficult , but the phenomena described , we are convinced , can only be Explained on this hypothesis .
In several experiments we have seen little pieces of sodium slowly disappear , leaving only the thin shell of ixide formed round them while they were being placed in the tube .
; inhere seemed in many cases to be a sudden chemical action , for the lube burst , not while pressure was being applied , , but often several ninutes after the pressure screw had been advanced .
A beam of light passed through the tube showed no absorption when examined ijy the spectroscope .
{ Having described our experiments , it remains only for ns to consider the state of the solvent at a distance above the critical point .
We cannot do better than quote Dr. Andrews ' consideration of the subject .
He says , * " What is the condition of carbonic acid when it passes at temperatures above 31 ' C. from the gaseous state down to ; the volume of the liquid without giving evidence at any part of the process of liquefaction having occurred ?
Does it continue in the gaseous state , or does it liquefy , or have we to deal with a new condition of matter ?
If the experiment were made at 100 ' C. , or at a higher temperature , when all indications of a fall had disappeared , the probable answer that would be given to this question isr that the gas preserves its gaseous condition during the compression , and few would hesitate to declare this statement to be true , if the pressures , as in Natterer 's experiments , were applied to such gases as hydrogen or nitrogen .
On the other hand , when the experiment is made with carbonic acid at temperatures a little above 31 ' C. , the great fall which occurs at one period of the process would lead to the conjecture that liquefaction had actually taken place , although optical tests carefully applied failed at any time to discover the presence of a liquid in contact with a gas .
But against this view it may be urged with great force , that the fact of additional pressure being always required for a further diminution of volume , is opposed to the known laws which hold in the change of bodies from the gaseous to the liquid state .
Besides , the higher the temperature at which the gas is compressed the less the fall becomes , and at last it disappears .
" Leaving out of consideration the solubility of sodium in hydrogen , we have had iodide of potassium in solution in alcohol at temperatures much too high for measurement by the mercurial thermometer , and which may safely be estimated at 150 ' C. above the critical point ( =380 ' C. ) .
We think therefore we are justified in saying that at this high temperature the solvent was truly gaseous .
An examination of Dr. Andrews ' curves for carbonic acid shows us that at a temperature only 16 ' C. above the * " Phil. Trans. , " 1869 , p. 575 .
188 Mr. J. B. Hannay on [ Feb. 26 critical point , the sudden fall in volume corresponding to the boiling line has disappeared , and although the curve does not coincide with the air curve , it is regular and shows no sign of liquefaction having occurred .
Our experiments were made at temperatures further removed from the critical point than this , and as no sudden change in solubility could be detected in passing from the liquid state to these high temperatures , we conclude that , in these experiments , we have further proof of the perfect continuity of the liquid and gaseous states , and also a complete proof of the solubility of solids in gases .
II .
" On the Artificial Formation of the Diamond .
" By J. B.j Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor G.l Gr .
8tokes , D.C.L. , \amp ; c. , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , -1880 .
( Preliminary Notice .
) While pursuing my researches into the solubility of solids in gases , I noticed that many bodies , such as silica , alumina , and oxide of zinc , which are insoluble in water at ordinary temperatures , dissolve to a very considerable extent when treated with water-gas at a very high pressure .
It occurred to me that a solvent might be found for carbon ; and as gaseous solution nearly always yields crystalline solid on withdrawing the solvent or lowering its solvent power , it seemed probable that the carbon might be deposited in the crystalline state .
After a large number of experiments , it was found that ordinary carbon , such as charcoal , lampblack , or graphite , were not affected by the most probable solvents I could think of , chemical action taking the place of solution .
A curious reaction , however , was noticed , which seemed likely to yield carbon in the nascent state , and so allow of its being easily dissolved .
When a gas containing carbon and hydrogen is heated under pressure in presence of certain metals its hydrogen is attracted by the metal , and its carbon left free .
This , as Professor Stokes has suggested to me , may be explained by the discovery of Professors Living and Dewar , that hydrogen has at very high temperatures a very strong affinity for certain metals , notably magnesium , forming extremely stable compounds therewith .
When the carbon is set free from the hydrocarbon in presence of a stable compound containing nitrogen , the whole being near a red heat and under a very high pressure , the carbon is so acted upon by the nitrogen compound that it is obtained in the clear , transparent form of the diamond .
The great difficulty lies in the construction of an

