OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Dr. Sibson " , born in 1815 at Cross Cauonby , near Maryport , in Cumberland , was educated in Edinburgh , where he also commenced the study of medicine .
He was a pupil of Lizars , and in his pupilage , in 1831-2 , volunteered to serve in the Cholera Hospital , and in that first and terrible epidemic risked his life .
Then he entered at Guy 's ; and many who remember him there tell of the rare energy with which he gave himself to study both in the wards and , especially , in the pathological theatre .
Among those whose admiration he attracted was the late Dr. Hodgkin , who , from that time , never ceased to encourage him in all his labour and to aid him in every way that could lead to success .
In 1835 he was appointed resident surgeon to the Nottingham General Hospital , and during that appointment , which he held till 1848 , gained a considerable knowledge not only of medicine , but of surgery , of which , in later life , he often made good use in consultations .
There , also , he made his chief investigations into the mechanical physiology of respiration and the position of the internal organs in health and disease , which were throughout his life a principal subject of his studies ; and through these his name will always be honourably remembered in the history of medicine .
They brought him early into high repute when first published in 1844 in the ' Provincial Medical and Surgical Transactions , ' and subsequently in a separate volume .
His great work on Medical Anatomy , towards which most of his researches led , and in which all his chief results may be studied , was published in 1869 .
It is a book to be commended for its thoroughness .
Its preparation involved severe labour , most of which was carried on in the dead-house of the Marylebone Infirmary .
In 1848 , at the end of his tenure of office at Nottingham , Mr. Sibson graduated at the University of London , and passed in the same year the examinations for M.B. and M.D. , gaining honours in both\#151 ; a noteworthy achievement , considering the active life of practical work in which he had long been engaged .
He remained always devoted to the University , fulfilled for some years the duties of examiner in medicine , and in 1865 was made a member of the Senate , on the nomination of Convocation .
Few were so constant as he in attention to all the business of the university that had relation to the medical or other natural sciences .
Alike in the senate , in committees , and in convocation , he was zealous for the promotion of all good designs .
The like may be said of his work in the College of Physicians , of which he became a member in 1849 and a Fellow in 1853 .
In this year he delivered the Gulstoniau Lectures , in 1870 the Croonian , in 18/ 3 the C 3 Lmnleian ; but his chief work was in the office of secretary to the Committees on the Nomenclature of Diseases .
It would be impossible to overestimate the value of his services in that capacity .
He was the principal originator of the undertaking , and never ceased to labour in it during the six or more years in which it was in progress .
Of all the great honour due to a work of so large importance , even of much more than national importance , the greater part was certainly gained by Dr. Sibson .
Dr. Sibson was elected one of the physicians of St. Mary 's Hospital in 1851 , and held the post during twenty years : he was also for some time one of the lecturers on medicine in the school .
His teaching was earnest , laborious , and minute .
Emphatic as he was in speech , and never for a moment doubting the importance of even the smallest fact , he made all listen to him , and he made many learn .
Few , indeed , could follow him in all the minuteness of detail with which he spoke on his chief subjects , such as the diagnosis of diseases m the chest \ but he made his pupils feel that they , had work to do for which nothing less than the devotion of a life could suffice , and he showed them how to do it .
Dr. Sibson was not less vigorous in the British Medical Association .
He first became a member in 1843 ; in 1850 he delivered the address in physiology , in 1870 that in medicine ; for many years he was a member of the General Council , for three years its president , and after this a permanent vice-president .
It was at his suggestion that the plan for grants for scientific researches was adopted , and he was chairman of the Grant\#151 ; Committee .
Briefly , he took part in every good work of the Association .
And he took a willing part in larger and more public works .
He was a very active member of the Asylum District Board and of the Government Commission in the Greenwich Hospital Enquiry in 1867-8 .
He was elected a Fellow of the Eoyal Society in 1849 after the publication of two papers in the 'Transactions , ' became a member of the Council in 1872 , and was for some years Treasurer of the Eoyal Society Club .
Among his honours he had the honorary degree of M.D. of Dublin and of LL. D. of Durham* .
It is not possible to give a summary of Dr. Sibson 's numerous published essays , comprising , in addition to the subject above mentioned , researches on narcotic poisons , ether , and chloroform .
It was while investigating the action of anaesthetics that , by making use of soft lead as the most pliable substance for adaptation to the mouth , he succeeded in constructing a very ingenious mask to be worn during inhalation ; and to him the profession is indebted for the double valve for expiration and inspiration .
Nearly every one of the essays relating to the chest was in itself a * Facts derived from an excellent memoir of Dr. Sibson in the ' British Medical Journal , ' September 30,1876 .
iii summary of minute and laborious studies .
The characteristic of all this part of his work was in his devotion and immense labour to determine the questions which he set himself .
Perhaps he overestimated the relative importance of some of them ; but even if he did he should hardly be charged with fault ; rather his example may be studied as a protest against the greater and much more common fault of thinking that facts are easy to be established .
He will probably always enjoy the rare honour of having settled some things so certainly that they will never need to be investigated again .
It may be doubted whether we had in our Society a man of stronger will for work than Sibson .
He never flinched from any duty ; he never tried to make it easy : when he saw a duty to be done he looked to see how large it could be made , how manifold in detail ; and he did it all .
No man followed better the advice of the king Preacher , " Whatsoever thy hand finds to do , do it with thy might .
" And surely no one ever worked harder with as light and genial a heart .
Who of us can forget the gentleness and enthusiasm of his social life , his fervent greetings , his words of affection , the sincerity of which was proved by the whole tenor of his pure unselfish life ?
He was a many-sided man , and on all sides good ; a true lover of nature and of art , his house was adorned with a fine collection of engravings , and especially Wedgwood ware , of which he was a critical judge : his collection of Wedgwood medallions of scientific men ( unfortunately dispersed by sale after his death ) was probably the most complete ever got together , and was especially rich in representations of Pellows of the Poyal Society .
Dr. Sibson married , in July 1858 , Sarah Mary , younger daughter of Peter Aim Ouvry , Esq. , of East Acton , a lady of highly cultivated mind and of rare artistic accomplishments .
His death was , as he expected , sudden .
He died at Geneva on the 7th of September , on his way home from a vacation tour ; and when we might have thought of him as coming to us again , with his enthusiastic narratives of adventure or of some study in rare art , abrupt news came that his career was finished .
* Dr Sibson 's chief papers , besides those already referred to , may be found in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' 1846,1848 , vols .
136,138 ; the ' London Medical Gazette 2nd ser. , vols .
iv .
, vi .
, vii .
, viii .
, x. ; ' London Journal of Medicine , ' vol. i. ; 'British Medical Journal , ' 1873 ; ' Pathological Transactions , ' vols .
ii .
, iii .
, x. ; ' Trans , of British Medical Association , ' vol. xvii .
, 1850 ; Reynolds 's 'System of Medicine , ' art .
" Pericarditis , Endocarditis " ( these were completed after the labour , it is said , of three years , just before his death ) .
The 'British Medical Journal ' of the current year contains the Harveian Lectures on Bright 's disease , which Dr. Sibson had prepared for e ivery no long before his death .
yol .
xxyi .
iv J. B. A. L. L. Elie de Beaumont was born on the 25th September , 1798 .
In the year 1817 he became a student at the Ecole Polytechnique , where he 'greatly distinguished himself .
In 1819 he left that School , having the first place among those who were leaving at the same time , and commenced his studies at the Ecole des Mines .
He soon evinced a decided taste for geological pursuits , and in his second year his excellent and distinguished master , M. Brochant de Yilliers , wrote of him as follows :\#151 ; " H est regard comme un de nos plus forts sujets presents et passes .
II a surtout un grand gout et beaucoup de dispositions pour la Geologie .
" The papers he wrote after various geological excursions made by the pupils have been preserved in the School and show his zeal and capacity for that study .
In the beginning of his career as an engineer his masterly memoir on the sandstone strata of the Vosges attracted much notice , and at once gave him a place among rising geologists .
In 1822 , just as the pupil engineer was completing his brilliant course of study , an incident decided his career .
The Council of the Ecole des Mines having received a copy of the fine Geological map of England , just executed , were so much struck with the importance of the work that they expressed to the Administration a wish that a similar map of Erance should be drawn up .
c. Before this suggestion could be carried out , it was necessary to gain a large mass of information from England ; and Elie de Beaumont was soon afterwards sent with Brochant de Villiers , and his friend and colleague , Dufrenoy , on a mission to England , in order to study the principles on which this map had been prepared .
On their return they published a description of the principal metallurgical establishments of this country , then little known to French manufacturers .
The Geological conditions of the workings in Great Britain , the processes employed in manufactories , and the general arrangements of plant were carefully described in this elaborate work , which is considered to have rendered an immense service to French Metallurgy .
As a consequence of this mission Elie de Beaumont and Dufrenoy were commissioned , under the direction of Brochant de Villiers , to prepare a Geological Map of France , a task which , begun in 1825 , occupied eighteen years .
In 1824 Elie de Beaumont was appointed as Engineer of second class at Bouen , and held that position until 1827 , when he was placed as assistant to M. Brochant de Villiers in the duties of the Geological Chair at the Ecole des Mines , and in 1835 succeeded to the professorship .
Hitherto Elie de Beaumont had been chiefly remarkable for great power of work and intelligence .
He was now to take high rank as an original investigator .
In 1829 he made a communication to the Academy , in which he asserted that the oldest chain of mountains in France was that of the Cote d'or , in Burgundy , that the Pyrenees and Apennines were of later date , that Mont Blanc belonged to a still more recent period , and that the St. Gothard was younger than Mont Blanc .
The most eminent geologists of the time adopted the new doctrines , which were enthusiastically propagated by Arago .
Thus encouraged , Elie de Beaumont prosecuted his studies of the origin of mountain-ranges with renewed vigour , and his * Systemes des Montagnes ' was the result , followed in after years by large additions of facts and the development of his great idea of the pentagonal network of mountain-chains .
His views have not met with universal concurrence either from geologists or mathematicians .
They have been ably controverted by other geologists , among whom are Sir Charles Lyell and Mr. Hopkins in his anniversary address to the G-eological Society in 1853 .
In 1832 , on the death of Cuvier , Elie de Beaumont was elected almost unanimously to the vacant chair in the College de France .
There he created a school of Geology , and for upwards of twenty years his lectures were numerously attended by students of geology .
He was early in his career elected into the French Academy , and on the death of Arago in 1853 he was selected for the important post of Perpetual Secretary of that learned body , which post he retained until his unexpected death on the 21st September , 1874 .
After long service as Inspector-General of Mines he became , in 1861 , Vice-President of the Conseil-General des Mines , and a Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour .
He was also a member of the French Senate .
For nearly 50 years of his life ( that is to say , from his entrance as pupil in 1819 until his superannuation in 1868 ) he was attached to the Ecole des Mines .
The extent and number of his writings can only be judged of by a complete list ; but his ' Geologie Pratique ' may especially be noticed .
M. Elie de Beaumont married a lady of the distinguished house of Quelen .
Her death and the miseries of the late war no doubt tended to hasten his end .

