On the Absorption of Gases by Solids .
407 It would appear from this table that the phases of the various magnetic inequalities occur at Toronto nearly two days ( more strictly 1-6 days ) before the advent of the corresponding phases at Kew .
The result already obtained for Kew and Prague shows that the phases of magnetic inequalities occur at Kew nearly one day ( more strictly 07 day ) before the advent of the corresponding phases at Prague .
Thus the two results agree together in representing a progress of magnetic weather from west to east , and agree also with a result obtained by Balfour Stewart and Morisabro Hiraoka ( see " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 28 , p. 288 ) , showing that magnetic weather changes occur at Trevandrum , in India , 97 days later than at Kew .
It ought , however , to be borne in mind that in the intercomparison of Toronto , Kew , and Prague , the observations include disturbances , while in the intercomparison of Kew and Trevandrum the undisturbed observations at Kew are compared with the whole body of observations at Trevandrum , this latter being a tropical station in which the effect of disturbance is extremely small .
XIY .
" On the Absorption of Oases by Solids .
" By J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , D.C.L. , \amp ; c. , Sec. R.S. Received June 4 , 1881 .
During the progress of the investigations which I have from time to time had the honour of bringing under the notice of the Royal Society , I have again and again noticed the apparent disappearance of gases enclosed in vessels of various materials when the disappearance could not be accounted for upon the assumption of ordinary leakage .
After a careful examination of the subject I found that the solids absorbed or dissolved the gases , giving rise to a striking example of the fixation of a gas in a solid without chemical action .
In carrying out that most troublesome investigation , the crystalline separation of carbon from its compounds , the tubes used for experiment have been in nine cases out of ten found to be empty on opening them , and in most cases a careful testing by hydraulic press showed no leakage .
The gases seemed to go through the solid iron , although it was 2 inches thick .
A series of experiments with various linings were tried .
The tube was electro-plated with copper , silver , and gold , but with no greater success .
Siliceous linings were tried fusible enamels and glass\#151 ; but still the ' tubes refused to hold the contents .
Out of thirty-four experiments made since my last results were published , only four contained any liquid or condensed gaseous matter after the fumacing .
I became convinced that the solid matter at the very high pressure and temperature used must be pervious to gases .
408 Mr* J- B- Hannay .
[ June ^ This I find to be the case , and to a very remarkable extent .
I am still investigating this matter , but as I have so much on hand it may be some time before I can finish the work , so I wish to place on record the results so far as I have proceeded .
I find that glass , when at a temperature of about 200 ' , absorbs a large quantity of gas when the latter is under a pressure of 200 atmospheres .
Oxygen and carbon dioxide have been used , and have been found to be largely absorbed and on cooling the glass under pressure the gas is retained permanently fixed .
So much is absorbed that , on quickly raising the temperature to the softening temperature of the glass , the sudden escape of gas drives the glass into foam .
On slowly raising the temperature and retaining it at 300 ' , most of the absorbed gas is given off without any visible action .
The frothing up of the glass by the outrush of gas is very striking .
Other silicates , and also borates and phosphates , absorb gas , especially carbon dioxide , under great pressure .
Metals absorb hydrogen and some of its compounds with carbon .
As the treatment of quantities of matter sufficient for analysis at these high pressures and temperatures is a matter of great difficulty , the majority of experiments being failures , the work proceeds but slowlybut X hope during the summer and autumn to be able to elucidate the subject quantitatively , when I shall detail the results to the Society .
XY .
" On the States of Matter .
" By J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , D.C.L. , \amp ; c. , Sec. R.S. Received June 4 , 1881 .
The conception which had been held from the earliest times that the three recognised states of matter were clearly separated from each other received a rude blow from the interpretation put upon the work of Andrews , that the liquid and gaseous states were really continuous , and that the two states could only be classified under one head\#151 ; the fluid state .
Andrews demonstrated that by placing a liquid under a pressure greater than the critical , and then raising the temperature , the liquid might be made to pass to an undoubtedly gaseous state without any sudden change having been visible .
Thus the continuity of the liquid and gaseous states seemed established .
I say seemed , because I have shown in former papers that under any pressure the fluid passes at a given temperature from a state where it possesses cohesion , capillarity , or surface tension\#151 ; the distinguishing property of liquid , which prevents it freely mixing with a trne gas\#151 ; to a state where it possesses no cohesion , capillarity , nor surface tension , and where it mixes freely with any gas\#151 ; in fact , to the gaseous state ; and this change takes place at a fixed temperature independent of pressure .

