Distribution of the RontgenRays from Focus Bulb .
189\gt ; DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
pia x._Bright and dark hydrogen flocculi near active sun-spot group , 1908 , September 2 , 5 h. 36 m. p.m. Pacific standard time .
Photographed with Snow telescope and 5-foot spectroheliograph , camera slit 0'06 mm. ( 1*4 Angstroms ) wide set on the hydrogen line Ha .
Scale of reproduction : Sun 's diameter = 400 mm. Fig. 2.\#151 ; Five images of the Hy line , showing it to be strengthened and widened in the dark hydrogen flocculi .
On the Distribution of the Rdntgen Rays from a Focus Bulb .
By G. W. C. Kaye , B.A. ( Cantab .
) , D.Sc .
( Bond .
) , A.R.C.Sc .
Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received November 3 , \#151 ; Read December 9 , 1909 .
) This paper contains an account of some preliminary experiments on the distribution of the Rontgen rays under conditions similar to those which obtain in a modern focus bulb .
The experiments which were carried out at the beginning of the year are being continued , but it has been thought well to put the results on record for reasons which will appear .
The distribution of X-rays as they proceed from their source excited interest even in the earliest forms of Rontgen bulbs , where the rays were generated by the impact of cathode rays against the glass walls of the tube .
Sir J. J. Thomson* noticed that in such a case more X-rays come out from any point normally than obliquely ; he explained this as due to the greater absorption and enfeeblement of the oblique rays which have a longer path in the glass .
Prof. Thomson also showed , by using a hemispherical photographic film , that when cathode rays strike at 45 ' against a flat plate , the Rontgen rays produced come off approximately uniformly in all directions until we approach quite close to the plane of the plate .
Prof. S. P. Thompsonf similarly observed in 1897 that the intensity remains nearly uniform up to a grazing angle , where it abruptly ends .
Campbell SwintonJ records an observation to the effect that , with an anti* ' Conduction of Electricity through Gases,5 2nd edition , p. 646 .
t Thompson , 'Phil .
Trans.,5 A , vol. 190 , p. 471 , 1897 .
I Swinton , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 vol. 63 , p. 432 , 1898 .
Dr. G. W. C. Kaye .
Distribution of the [ Nov. 3 , cathode inclined at 45 ' to the cathode stream , the more normally incident cathode rays are more effective in producing Rontgen rays than those which strike the plate obliquely .
Mr. Swinton 's results with X-rays and reflected cathode rays may be summed up:\#151 ; As the angle of incidence of the cathode rays diminishes the X-rays increase , the reflected cathode rays diminish , and the ( negative ) charge received by the anticathode increases.* v Two further results on the distribution of X-rays remain to be chronicled .
Hamf and BordierJ have independently shown that there is a considerable want of uniformity in the distribution of the rays from a focus bulb of the ordinary type .
In a plane determined by the beam of cathode rays and the normal to the anticathode , the intensity is a maximum in a direction at about 60 ' from the normal , and falls off roughly by a cosine law from ' this direction .
S The Rdntgen tube , in which the cathode rays are focussed on an anticathode inclined at 45 ' to the beam of cathode rays , was introduced by Prof. Jackson and has become the universal pattern .
It is so much better than its predecessors ( in which the glass walls of the tube acted as target ) that some of its disadvantages have not received adequate attention .
( 1 ) The obliquity of the anticathode to the cathode rays tends to increase the area of emission of the X-rays .
In photographic work , the smaller this area the better the definition .
( 2 ) In the majority of cases it is impossible entirely to suppress with a coil-driven tube the harmful reverse currents at " make .
" Owing to the disposition of the anticathode the stream of cathode rays , which , during the inverse phase proceeds from the anticathode , impinges on the glass and greatly increases the danger of a spark piercing the tube .
The two objections above can be met by the obvious expedient of rotating the anticathode through 45 ' , until it is parallel to the cathode .
Moreover , we follow Swinton 's advice of normal incidence for the cathode rays .
It remains to test the point experimentally and to see whether we have lost or gained in efficiency by the alteration .
Apparatus .
A Rontgen bulb ( illustrated in fig. 1 ) was designed with this and some other points in mind .
The anticathode ( of platinum ) was mounted on * For angles of incidence greater than 50 ' the anticathode received a positive charge .
t Ham , 'Amer .
Assoc. Adv. Sci. , ' January , 1908 .
I Bordier , 4 Archives l'Ecole Medicate , ' vol. 16 , p. 299 , April , 1908 .
S See further , Kaye , " Rontgen Rays , " 'Science Progress/ October , 1908 .
1909 .
] Rdntgen Rays from a Focus Bulb .
, a pivot and could be rotated about a vertical axis by a magnetic device which will be evident from the figure .
In a horizontal plane through the anticathode .and the concave cathode , a small hole in a lead screen allowed a bundle of X-rays ( circa 5 ' ) to enter an ionisation chamber .
The bulb was capable of rotation round the ground-joint J , and thus the intensity of the X-rays in .any direction of azimuth could be measured by the one ionisation chamber .
The measurements were made with a Wilson tilted electroscope , the usual insulation and shielding precautions being adopted .
A charcoal tube surrounded by liquid air could be joined to the bulb by means of a capillary tube .
The pressure could , by this way , be kept very fairly constant for a considerable time .
An induction coil was used to produce the discharge , an alternative spark g'ap ( between polished balls ) furnishing a measure of the potential on the tube .
The anticathode was earthed and put in metallic contact with the anode .
Tli^ glass bulb proved on subsequent examination to be very uniform in its thickness ( circa 0*05 cm .
) , a feature which naturally facilitated the reduction of the observations .
Results .
An accident to the tube has temporarily suspended operations , but a few of the results obtained may profitably be mentioned .
The case of the normal incidence of the cathode rays with a thick anticathode first received attention .
The distribution of the X-rays can be readily appreciated by fig. 2 , in which the length of the radius vector in any direction is proportional to the intensity in that direction .
A region of 20 ' on each side of the normal could not be investigated , the cathode being in the way .
It will be seen that to derive the greatest intensity from a bulb arranged like this , one should not work outside an angle of about 30 ' to the normal of the anticathode ; there is a distinct falling off as one approaches the grazing angle .
As the tube is hardened up and faster cathode rays impinge upon the anticathode , this falling off becomes less pronounced , the explanation being , of course , the lessened proportional absorption of the oblique rays .
Dr. G. W. C Kaye .
Distribution of the [ Nov. 3 Cathode 20 JO +6 SO GO jo * 80 90 too lOO 90 so 70 GO SO 'fo 30 20 Fig. 2.\#151 ; Thick Pt Anticathode ; 8 mms .
spark gap ; no screen .
It is intended to obtain similar curves for anticathodes which are very thin , and in which the scattering of the cathode rays would possibly not be complete .
The distribution of the X-rays generated under such conditions promises to be very interesting.* Corresponding distribution curves have been obtained for oblique positions of the platinum anticathode .
A typical one is shown in fig. 3 .
The distribution of the soft rays is not quite symmetrical about the plate , but this is 10 2D Jo *0 so 60 70 80 s\gt ; o too iOO 90 80 70 60 SO to Jo 20 IQ Fig. 3.\#151 ; Thick Pt Anticathode ; 8 mms .
spark gap ; no screen\#151 ; broken line ; A1 screen 1*4 mms .
thick\#151 ; full line .
probably due to a want of uniformity in the thickness of the bulb .
A more uniform distribution appears when the soft rays are removed by a screen and * In this connection , see Kaye , " The Emission of Rontgen Pays from Thin Metallic Sheets , " 'Proc .
Camb .
Phil. Soc. , ' October , 1909 .
^909 .
] Rontgen Rays from a Focus Bulb .
193 only the hard rays are dealt with .
The maximum intensity is made equal to 100 for both soft and hard rays .
As before , the harder the bulb the sharper is the falling off in the intensity as one approaches the plane of the anticathode , though the gradation is not so sudden as the earlier experimenters lead us to believe , from their fluorescence measurements .
It may perhaps be mentioned that there was some evidence that in cases of oblique incidence , a region of maximum intensity was present , situated usually not far from the angle of specular reflection of the cathode rays .
However , the point is not insisted upon until more curves have been obtained , and in fig. 3 , for example , the maximum , which appeared to occur with hard rays at about 15 ' from the normal , is not indicated .
It should further be mentioned , with similar reservation , that in the case of normal incidence an intensity maximum appeared to be present at an angle of about 35 ' on each side of the normal .
Doubtless , any such specular reflection would be more pronounced with an aluminium anticathode .
There is this to be remembered .
Campbell Swinton* showed that cathode rays do in part undergo regular reflection , and as the impact of the reflected rays against the glass walls would generate X-rays , the excess of rays in such a direction would receive , at any rate , a partial explanation .
In a paper read before the Eoyal Society !
the writer showed that the Rontgen rays from any anticathode can be divided into two groups , one homogeneous , the other not .
The homogeneous ( and softer ) portion is characteristic of the radiator , the hardness depending on the atomic weight of the anticathode , and but slightly on the hardness of the tube : the absorption coefficient agrees with that of the homogeneous secondary Rontgen radiation from the metal .
The quality of the heterogeneous and harder remainder is independent of the radiator and depends only on the condition of the tube : the intensity is proportional roughly to the atomic weight .
If the tube is sufficiently soft , almost all the radiation is of the homogeneous kind .
It will be interesting to trace the effect on the distribution , as a tube is hardened and the beam of rays changed in character .
Obliquity of Anticathode .
It may be said at once that so far as the present results go , the hardness and intensity of the X-rays ( in the most favourable direction in each case ) were found over a very considerable range to be almost independent of the obliquity of the platinum anticathode .
In a few cases the condition of normal incidence gave the most advantageous results , but the superiority * Swinton , ' Eoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 64 , p. 317 , 1898 .
t Kaye , ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 209 , p. 123 , 1908 .
VOL. LXXXI1I.\#151 ; A. O 194 Distribution of the Rdntgen Rays from a Focus Bulb .
was slight .
The fluorescence of the bulb , which is due to the secondary cathode rays from the anticathode , increased very markedly and strikingly as the deviation from normal incidence increased , but the X-rays did not show any corresponding order of variation .
The 45 ' position , universally employed in the modern focus tube , thus enjoys no advantage over any other .
Indeed , the normal incidence of the cathode rays is to be preferred as satisfying the objections set out on p. 193 .
Furthermore , the injurious effects of the " reverse " current might , with normal incidence , be completely removed by using a very concave anticathode .
The " reverse " beam of cathode rays from the anticathode would then be received entirely by the cathode , and the beam of X-rays could be limited to the zone of maximum intensity .
The writer has just become aware that Messrs. Mtiller of Hamburg are about to bring out a new bulb\#151 ; " the Central Focus Bulb " \#151 ; in which the condition of normal incidence is employed .
There is little doubt that such a bulb will prove to be considerably better than the ordinary pattern , and may have considerable commercial importance .
There does not seem to be any good reason for the invariable practice of inserting an aluminium anode in a Rontgen bulb other than to minimise the sputtering from the anticathode which occurs with the reverse current .
It is quite probable , however , that with normal incidence and a bowlshaped anticathode , the presence of an anode would prove to be unnecessary , for a good deal of the sputtered metal would be deposited on the cathode , where it would be harmless .
The absence of the anode would have the further advantage of simplifying the construction of the tube .
The ideal X-ray bulb would appear to have a concave aluminium or , better , tantalum* cathode ( cooled in some fashion ) directly facing and parallel to a heavy bowl or trough-shaped tantalum anticathode .
The cooling of the cathode greatly lessens the tendency of the bulb to harden with long usage , and tantalum has a very high melting point and sputters practically not at all .
The writer is indebted to Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. , and Prof. W. H. Brag , * F.R.S. , for their interest in this work .
* Messrs. Siemens and Halske kindly furnished me with a sample of tantalum .

