206 Dr. II .
von Willemoes-Suhm a new [ Mar. 6 , be employed as a dye ; and the oil gives colours of various tints when treated with other oxidizing agents , according to the usual reactions of methyl-aniline .
The red-violet from the arsenical melt may , after purification , be converted into the bluer shades by the Hofmann process , when a new generation of gum is again observed .
The specific gravity of the methyl-aniline oil has varied a little in different operations , but keeps within the ranges of 0-95 and 0-97 .
It is probable that this trifling variation may be ascribed to admixtures of dimethyl-aniline , due in part to the introduction of higher methylated products into the crude gum employed in these experiments .
e E By way of conclusion , and as giving further proof towards establishing the identity of the new oils with ethyl- and methyl-aniline respectively , it may be stated that they fail to give Girard 's blue when heated with rosolic acid or rosaniline , but take the peculiar course of changing slightly towards violet , and then suddenly becoming decolorized , \#151 ; reactions almost without parallel in the history of the tinctorial aniline derivatives .
[ Specimens of the so-called Hofmann gum , of the ethyl-aniline and methyl-aniline oils , and skeins of silk and cotton dyed with the reddish ( or primitive ) violet made from the latter , accompanied this communication.\#151 ; J. S. ] III .
" On a new Genus of Amphipod Crustaceans .
" By Rudolph von Willemoes-Suhm , Ph. D. , Naturalist to the 'Challenger ' Exploring-Expedition .
Communicated by Prof. W yville Thomson , F.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff of the Expedition .
Received February 1873 .
( Abstract .
) In lat. 35 ' 47 ' , long .
8 ' 23 ' , off Cape St. Yincent , the trawl was sent down to a depth of 1090 fathoms on the 28th of January , and brought up , among other very interesting things , a large transparent Amphipod with enormous faceted eyes .
The animal , evidently hitherto unknown , will be the type of a new genus , having the following characters Thaumops , nov .
gen .
Caput oblongum , inflatum , oculis maximis superiorem capitis partem tegentibus .
Segmenta thoracica 6 , abdominalia 5 .
Antennarum in feminis par unum , maxillarum par unum , pedum paria duo minima maxillarum locum tenentia .
Mandibulae nulla ) .
Pedes thoiaeici o , abdominales 3 in quoque latere .
Appendices caudales 4 , Gangli-orum pectoralium paria 5 , abdominalium 3 .
By operating in a similar manner upon the ethyl gums the corresponding thyl-aniline has been obtained , the boiling-point of which was higher and Lot so definite ( 205'-210 ' C. ) as in the case of the oil already described .
1873 .
] Genus of Amp hip od Crustaceans .
Thaumops pellucida , n. sp. Corpus longitudine 14 mm. , latitudine 21 mm. , pellucidum .
An anatomical description of this interesting animal is given , illustrated by two plates ; and it is shown that , among the Amphipods known to us , Phronima is its nearest relation .
But there are so many points in which this genus differs from Phronima , that it cannot form a member of the family Phronimidae ; and I therefore propose to establish for it a new family , Thaumopidae , belonging to the tribe of The form of the head is totally different from that of Phronima the antennae are not situated near the mouth , but at its front , and the enormous faceted eyes occupy its upper surface .
The first two pairs of thoracic appendages are not , as in Phronima , ambulatory legs , but maxillipeds , so that only five pairs of legs are ambulatory in Thaumops .
The thorax is composed of six segments\#151 ; the first of which has , on its underside , the vulva and one pair of maxillipeds ; and the second , representing two segments , bears two pairs of appendages , the larger maxilliped and the first pair of ambulatory legs .
The abdomen consists of five segments , with three pairs of pedes spurii , the caudal appendages being attached to the fourth and fifth segments .
The animal being beautifully transparent , the nervous system could be carefully worked out without dissecting it ; the position of the nerves going out from the cephalic ganglion , as well as that of the five pairs of thoracic and the three pairs of abdominal ganglia , could be ascertained .
The eyes , having at their borders very peculiar appendages , were examined , and a description is given of the structure of the large crystalline bodies which are to be seen in them .
Organs of hearing and touch have not been discovered .
The mouth is covered by a pair of maxillae and a small labium .
There is a recurved oesophageal passage leading into a large caecal stomach , and an intestinal tube departing from near the end of the oesophagus and running straight to the anus .
The heart is an elongated tube extending from the second to the fifth segment , with probably three openings .
Three pairs of transparent sac-like gills are attached at the base of the second , third , and fourth pairs of feet .
Genital organs.\#151 ; The single specimen taken is a female .
The ovary , probably composed of two ovaries , has a rose-colour , and the genital papilla is situated at the under part of the first segment ; it is covered by two small lamella ?
, which in this case did not sustain the eggs , which were found to be attached to the first pair of ambulatory legs .
The animal seems to carry them in a manner similar to the pycnogonid Nymphon .
Development.\#151 ; The eggs contained embryos having already the antennae , Mr. C. Tomlinson on [ Mar. 13 , the five pairs of legs , and the abdominal feet ; they show that Thaumops has to undergo no metamorphosis , and that the young ones leave the eggs with all their appendages well developed .
Mode of life.\#151 ; It could not be made out whether T. pelludda inhabits the deep sea , or whether it is , like Phronima , a pelagic animal , having been caught by the trawl only as the latter came up from the depths .
H.M.S. * * * S Challenger/ Teneriffe , February 13 , 1873 .
March 13 , 1873 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " Note on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
" By Charles Tomlinson , E.R.S. Received February 10 , 1873 .
In the year 1866 , M. Grernez and M. Viollette published each a memoir on supersaturated saline solutions* , in which the same conclusions are arrived at , namely :\#151 ; ( 1 ) that the only nucleus capable of suddenly crystallizing any one of such solutions is a salt of the same kind as that dissolved ; and ( 2 ) that all bodies , solid , liquid , or aeriform , which apparently act as nuclei , are really contaminated with a hydrate of the salt that forms the supersaturated solution .
I cannot refrain from expressing my admiration at the unwearied skill and patience with which these two memoirs were prepared .
The experiments were repeated by hundreds , and under a large variety of circumstances , so that it seems scarcely possible to entertain any doubt as to the validity of the conclusions arrived at .
I had not seen these memoirs until long after the publication of my second paper on this subject f , or I should have hesitated in offering it to the Royal Society without special reference to them .
What I did see was a very brief abstract of M. Grernez 's memoir in the 1 Comptes Rendus , ' and to this I refer in my first paper J , quoting the experiments and the decisive objections of M. Jeannel in opposition to M. Grernez 's conclusions .
The experiments of Mr. Liversidge S are identical in principle with * Annals Scientifiques de l'Ecole Normale Sup6rieure , tome 3e , Ann4e 18 pp. 167 and 206 .
I am indebted for this reference to the courtesy of M. 1'AbM Moigno .
t Phil. Trans. 1871 , p. 51 .
Vj x Phil. Trans. 1868 , p. 660 .
The reference to M. Jeannel is in the abstract of this paper contained in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society/ May 28 , 1868 , p. 405 .
S Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xx .
p. 497 .

