5 .
" An Appendix to a paper on the Nervous Ganglia of the Uterus , with a further Account of the Nervous Structures of that Organ .
" By Robert Lee , M.D. , F.R.S. After premising a short history of the opinions of Galen , Dr. Wiliiam Hunter , Mr. John Hunter , Professor Tiedemann , Professor Lobstein , and Professor Osiander , relative to the existence , course , and enlargement of the nerves of the uterus , the author adverts to his own researches on this subject , which commenced with his dis ?
covery , in April 1838 , of the trunk of a large nerve accompanying the uterine vein , and of the great nervous plexus with which it was continuous .
Of this discovery he gave an account to the Royal Society in a paper read on the 12th of December of the same year .
In a subsequent paper , he described some large nervous ganglia situated at the neck of the uterus ; and in the present appendix he describes other nervous structures of still greater size which presented themselves to him , on a still more complete dissection which he made of a gravid uterus at the full period of gestation .
It appears from the results of these dissections that the human uterus possesses a great and extensive system of nerves , which enlarge during pregnancy , along with the coats , blood-vessels , and absorbents of that organ , and which after parturition resume their original con ?
dition .
It is chiefly through the influence conveyed by these nerves that the uterus is rendered capable of performing its various functions , and by which sympathies are established between it and other parts of the system .
6 .
" Magnetic-term Observations of the Declination , Inclination and Total Intensity , made at the Magnetic Observatory at Prague , for February , March , and April 1842 .
" By C. Kreil , Director of the Prague Observatory .
Communicated by S. Hunter Christie , Esq. , M.A. , Sec. R.S. 7 .
" Magnetic and Meteorological Observations for February 1842 , taken at the Magnetic Observatory at Madras .
" Presented by the Honourable Court of Directors of the East India Company .
Communicated by the Council of the Royal Society .
( Packet No. 73 .
) 8 .
" Magnetic and Meteorological Observations from May 1841 to March 1842 , made at the Observatory established by the Rajah of Travancore , at Trevandrum , transmitted to the Royal Society by command of His Highness the Rajah .
" By John Caldecott , Esq. , F.R.S. , Director of the Observatory at Trevandrum .

