210 Prof. E. Warren .
On the Development of the Coincidences of Vanadium Lines with Lines of other Metals .
A ( Kensing- ton ) .
Origin of coincident line .
Int. in y. Int. of coincident line . .
A ( Kensing- ton ) .
Origin of coincident line .
Int. in V. Int. of 1 coincident line .
3894 -16 Cr 4-5 4 4427 -49 Fe 4 7 3913-71 Fe 1 2-3 67 -09 Co 2-3 4 77-88 Fe 2 4-5 97 -00 Cr 4 5-6 4052 -60 Mil 1 4 4514 -36 Fe 4 \lt ; l 68-16 Fe 1 Mn 2-3 3 | 5 17 -75 Fe 3 1 70-94 Fe 2-3 2-3 25 -33 Fe 3-4 4 83 -07 Mn 3-4 7 34 -08 Co 3 4 90 -05 Mn 1 4 49 -79 Co 6 5 90-74 Mn 8 1-2 4603 -15 Fe 1 5 4224 -36 Fe 3-4 3 26 -66 Mn 4-5 5 34-18 Co 5-6 1-2 54 -80 Fe 1 4 4408-35 Mn 5 4 4709 -93 Mn 2-3 7 15-25 Fe 3 10 4871 -50 Fe 2 6 " A Preliminary Account of the Development of the Free-swimming Nauplius of LeptodoTct ( Lillj .
) .
Lie Ernest Warren , D.Sc .
, Assistant Professor of Zoology , University College , London .
Communicated by Professor Weldon , F.R.S. Received February 4 , \#151 ; Read February 28 , 1901 .
Leptodora appears to be a primitive daphnid in retaining a long , markedly segmented abdomen , and for this reason it seemed likely that an investigation on the development of the winter-generation might throw some light on the vexed ( questions in Crustacean development .
It was more particularly desired to ascertain whether any vestige of a coelom occurred , and that if so , whether any remnant of it peisists in the adult .
With this object in view , it was necessary to inquire into the origin of the genital cells and of the antennary and maxillary glands .
In April , 1898 , Professor Hickson obtained a few nauplii from Lake Bassenthwaite , Cumberland , and later in the year a large number of adults .
This material was most generously placed at my disposal by Professor Weldon , and I wish to express to him my sincere thanks .
^ The material was insufficient for my purpose ; and in the following spring I visited Lake Bassenthwaite to try to obtain fresh material , but I met with very little success .
Last spring , however , sufficient material was obtained to continue the investigation.* The preserving reagent employed was Flemming 's solution ( strong formula ) .
* I am indebted to the Royal Society for a Government Grant in connection with obtaining this material .
Free-swimming Naupliusof Leptodora liyalina 211 Fig. 1 represents the youngest nauplius tow-netted .
It should be noticed that Ant. 1 is not a swimming appendage .
The posterior end of the body is rounded , as the characteristic caudal forks are not yet developed .
The mandible already possesses the rudiment of a biting blade .
The first and second maxillae are represented by the merest rudiments .
Thoracic legs 1-6 are present as conspicuous buds .
The lower lip is not yet developed .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Ventral view of the youngest nauplius .
Ant , 2 is relatively much longer than at any other period of life .
x 110 diameters .
On each side of the proctodaeum there is a little ectodermal pit secieting a cuticular ( ?
) substance .
In an older nauplius , a prominent spme projects out of these sacs , which are then situated at the ends of the caudal forks ( fig. 2 ) .
These ectodermal pits bear a strong resemblance to the setal sacs of a Chaetopod .
At this time the mesenteron has an incomplete lumen , but both the stomodaeum and proctodaeum have reached it , AboA e the gut there is a large collection of yolk-masses surrounded b } a membrane of flattened yolk-digesting cells which send processes inwards between the yolk-masses .
There is no yolk-sac duct .
In an older nauplius the biting blades of the mandibles are more Prof. E. Warren .
On Development of the developed , and at every future moult the swimming ramus gradually becomes shorter .
Relatively the mandibles travel somewhat forwards , so as .
to be situated nearer to the mouth .
The rudiment of the second maxilla is just visible , that of the first maxilla is only seen in a horizontal section of the embryo .
Head Shield P Ectoderm End-s\amp ; c And Gland Max-Gland Fig. 2.\#151 ; Dorsal view of metanauplius .
The embryonic carapace , formed In the fusion of the two dorso-lateral swellings , is gradually extending backwards over the thorax , x 110 diameters .
In these nauplii , I met with a remarkable instance of unequal development in the different organs .
Several naupln which were presumably older than those with a rounded posterior end ( since t ey were somewhat larger and possessed caudal forks ) were , neverthe ess , Free-swimming Naupliusof Leptodora liyalina ( Lillj .
) .
213 much less advanced in the development of the internal organs .
The subject of variation in time , and the partial independence of the different organs in development , would seem to be well worthy of more attention than has been paid to it .
The lower lip appears late ; it seems to originate from paired rudiments ; but the slight papillae representing the maxillae do not enter into its formation , for they flatten out and disappear .
The characteristic shape of the adult thorax , whereby the ventral surface bearing the legs comes to be situated nearly at a right angle to the head , is not aissumed , as we might have expected , until the adult structure is attained .
Even in the quite young nauplius the ectoderm over the head is curiously modified ; the cells are large and possibly glandular or excretory in nature .
They possess large nuclei towards their bases and are much taller than the ordinary ectoderm cells .
In the adult animal , these cells form a large patch over the head , the " Ivopfschild of eismann ( fig. 2 ) .
I have not detected anything else of the nature of a dorsal organ , and I suggest that the above-described structure represents it .
As the youngest nauplius captured was a free-swimming creature with many muscles , it might have been anticipated that anything of the nature of segmental coelom pouches , if present , would be much obliterated .
Most of the mesoderm consists of a fairly uniform sheet of cells lying on each side of the gut .
Posteriorly the mesoderm is more abundant and compact .
The muscles of the thoracic legs are formed from the base of the mesoderm bands ( fig. 3 , B ) .
The cells End Sac .
^Maxillary \#163 ; Lanai .
Cardiac CeUs .
t Muscle .
Eacit-DucC .
fa l-Body .
Muscle B ; I'lG .
3.\#151 ; A. Cross-section of a young nauplius just behind the rudiment of 2nd maxilla .
The exit-duct of the maxillary gland can be seen passing up into the aorso-lateral swelling .
-rva Cross'sectlon of a slightly older nauplius ; it is a little posterior to A. Differentiation of end-sac and part of glandular tube can be seen in the dorso-lateral swelling .
Prof. E. Warren .
On Development of which will form muscle , are considerably larger than the rest of the mesoderm cells and stain more deeply ; they become arranged in parallel cords .
By the arrangement of the primitive muscle , the segmentation of the abdomen is marked out quite early in the life of the nauplius .
The cells which will form the heart , can be distinguished at an early period .
In the thoracic region , the dorsal portion of the mesoderm bands consists of two closely applied layers of flattened cells ( fig. 3 ) .
These layers gradually grow up over the yolk-sac , and those of one side meet their fellows of the other side in the mid-dorsal line .
Separation of the two layers now occurs , and the sac thus formed is the heart ( figs. 4 and 5 ) .
The pericardial space originates by two processes\#151 ; End Sa , c. Fig. 4.\#151 ; A. Longitudinal vertical section through the dorso-lateral swelling ; it is taken at some distance from the mid-dorsal line ( see fig. 2 ) .
H. Similar section taken close to the mid-dorsal line .
( 1 ) the gradual separation of the ectoderm from the heart-sac , and ( 2 ) the disintegration of the deeper layers of this thick ectoderm ( figs. 2 , 4 , 5 , )-There appears to be a definite floor to the pericardial space , consisting of flattened cells continuous with those of the heart ( fig. 5 , B ) , but the roof would seem to be simply the general dorsal ectoderm of the thorax .
Free-swimming Xauplius of Leptodora liyalina If ) .
215 'i he blood-corpuscles are large and frequently spherical .
I think it is probable that they are budded off from the compact mesoderm at the posterior end of the body , but it is very difficult to be certain about their origin .
f Pericardium .
End Sac .
Fnj .
5 .
A. Obliquely transverse section through the dorso-lateral swelling 0f a metanauplius .
The maxillary gland has become sharply differentiated0 from the imbedding octoderm .
B. Similar section through an older metanauplius ; the space marked f has developed .
The space * will soon become continuous with the space around the heart .
1 , In the earjmst nauplius obtained the gonad is quite definitely ormed .
W ithout doubt the generative cells originate exceedingly eai v , probably they could have been distinguished in the blastosphere stage as Grobben has described in the case of Moina .
The ovary becomes surrounded by a layer of mesoderm , and the generative duct seems to be solely mesodermal .
The main mass of the mesodermal bands becomes converted into the characteristic double-layered fat-body lying on each side of the gut .
The origin of the antennary and maxillary glands has very con-sit eia )e morphological interest , and I have devoted much care in tvm bHSatf* Th'dere\#151 ; of the to ?
hpthe fkleS 'f the b'dy of ni\gt ; 7 youngest nauplius , just posterior to the vertical plane passing through the second maxilla , the ectoderm !
r rthiCk ' ThiS thickenin\#171 ; is more pronounced dorsally , on sui ace view of the nauplius we can see a distinct dorso-lateral 216 Prof. E. Warren .
On the swelling on each side .
In the lateral thickening of ectoderm , a hand of cells passes nearly vertically downwards to the papilla representing the second maxilla .
The band will become the exit-duct of the future gland ; the hand extends upwards into the dorso-lateral swellings mentioned above ( fig. 3 , A ) .
It is out of these swellings that the rest of the gland becomes differentiated .
Fig. 3 .
B is a cross-section a little posterior to A , and is taken from a nauplius very slightly older .
Here the end-sac can he seen vaguely marked out from the surrounding ectoderm .
The lateral swellings containing the developing glands gradually extend upwards , and after a time they meet together in the mid-dorsal line ( fig. 2 ) .
There is formed simultaneously a deep transverse groove in front of the upgrowing swellings , and a less conspicuous groove occurs behind ( fig. 4 , A and B ) .
The overhanging portion of the embyonic carapace ( fig. 4 , B ) will he carried backwards as the animal develops , and will , in the female , expand into the free portion of the carapace overhanging the first two abdominal segments .
As the fused swellings ( the embryonic carapace ) gradually extend backwards over the dorsal surface of the thoiax , the maxillary gland is drawn out with them into the position and shape seen in the adult .
At the same time there is a general expansion of the parts ; the maxillary gland begins to separate itself from the surrounding ectoderm ( figs. 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 , f ) , and the space around the heart gradually increases .
' There is also a certain amount of disintegration of the ectoderm where the dorso-lateral swellings met in the middle-line .
The spaces marked * in figs. 2 , 4 and 5 are thus formed , and ultimately they become continuous with the space around the heai t. We have already seen that this pericardial space has a definite floor of flat mesoderm cells , but the roof would seem to be simply the ectoderm of the body-wall .
The exit-duct with the external opening travels upwards into a dorso-lateral position , so that in the adult it is nearly horizontal .
In the material at my disposal it is not possible to decide for certain whether the antennary gland also arises from the ectoderm , but it is highly probable that it does so .
_ Fig. 6 .
A , B , C represent three stages in the growth of this structure .
The nuclei in the intracellular duct , and connected ectoderm have been carefully put in the diagrams from actual sections , and then-arrangement certainly gives the impression that the duct should be regarded as an ingrowth of ectoderm .
Fig. A represents the condition observed in the youngest nauplius .
The end-sac consists of fairly large cells which are not very different in character from the cells forming the intracellular duct .
At a slightly free-swimming Naupliusof Leptodora hyalina ( Lilly .
) .
217 later ( late ( fig. B ) , the cells of the end-sac have become smaller , and there is a more distinct basement membrane ; they greatly resemble the cells of the end-sac of the maxillary gland .
Iii an older nauplius ( fig. C ) the intracellular duct begins to disintegrate , but the end-sac remains adhering to the dorsal ectoderm for a very considerable time .
ultimately , however , it disappears .
Dors\amp ; L. -$\gt ; 1^ fnSr\amp ; ceUsuUir duct .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; A. The antennary gland seen in transverse section through the youngest nauplius at the level of the 2nd antenna .
* ' B. The same gland seen in a slightly older nauplius .
The cells of the end-sac are smaller , and there is a more definite basement membrane .
C. The same in an advanced metanauplius .
The intracellular duct no longer communicates with the end-sac .
According to these observations , the maxillary and possibly the antennary glands are purely ectodermal in origin , and the end-sac is to be looked upon as merely a terminal thin-walled dilatation of the glandular tube .
At one time I believed that mesoderm crept up behind the maxillary gland ( see fig. 4 , A ) , and formed the end-sac , but renewed observation convinced me that it is formed out of the ectoderm in direct continuity with the glandular tube ( see fig. 3 , B ) .
It appears from recent observations that the nephridia of Chaito-pods should be regarded as ectodermal tubes which generally open into a ccelom , and sometimes may come into connection with a generative funnel .
In a trochosphere ( e.g. , in .
that of Polygordius ) the " head-kiclney " is probably budded off from the ectoderm , and since there is no coelom into which it can open , the tube terminates in a slightly dilated " flame-cell .
" Although coelom sacs are doubtless formed in the development of some Crustacea , yet I altogether failed to discover any traces of them in the youngest nauplius of Leptodora that I have ' examined ; and even in those cases where they have been described , it does not follow that the antennary and maxillary glands enter into relationship with these transitory coelom spaces .
218 Mr. E. Wilson .
The Growth If an ectodermal origin of the antennary and maxillary glands be confirmed in Crustacea generally , then we should be led to regard these structures as nephridia , which have lost their primitive connection with a coelom , and the end-sac would be looked upon as equivalent to the " flame-cell " of a typical intracellular nephridium .
The above preliminary account , which has omitted all reference to the nervous system and sense-organs , is merely a summary of the results already obtained .
I hope in a future publication to give a full account , containing careful drawings with the camera lucida .
\#166 ; 'Tho Growth of Magnetism in Iron under Alter nating Magnetic Force .
" By Ernest Wilson .
Communicated by Professor J. M. Thomson , F.R.S. Received February 25 , \#151 ; Read March 28 , 1901 .
The object of this paper is to investigate the growth of magnetism in an iron cylinder when the magnetising force is alternating .
The shielding effect of induced currents in plates of iron has been dealt with theoretically by Professor J. J. Thomson , -* * * S and Professor J. A. Ewing.t The subject has also been dealt with experimentally in the case of an iron cylinder , 4 inches diameter , * with alternating magnetising force and with simple reversal of the magnetising force .
A cylinder , 12 inches diameter , has been experimented upon with , simple reversal of magnetising force , S and the shielding effect of induced currents studied .
As the exploring coils enclosing elements of the cross-section of this 12-inch magnet are well suited to give the average induction density at four mean radii , the author thought the subject worth further investigation with regard to alternate currents .
The magnet is of cast steel , and is shown in sectional elevation in fig. 1- A section of the 12-inch core on the line AA is given in fig. 2 .
Wires have been threaded through the holes drilled in the plane AA , enclosing the areas numbered 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ( fig. 2 ) , and another coil ( No. 5 ) surrounds the core .
A D'Arsonval galvanometer was placed in each of these five circuits with an adjustable resistance to control the maximum deflection .
The deflections of the needles of the five galvanometers were noted simultaneously every four seconds , and were ultimately plotted in terms of time .
The magnetising current in the copper coil of the magnet was observed simultaneously with the above on a Weston ampere meter .
The current was made to alternate * ' The Electrician , ' vol. 28 , p. 599 .
+ ' The Electrician , vol. 28 p. 631 .
+ Ilopkinson and Wilson , ' Plul .
Trans. ' A , vol. 186 ( 1895 ) , pp. 93-121 S Ilopkinson and Wilson , 'Journal of the Inst. Elec .
Eng. , vol. 24 , p. I Jo.

