IX .
" Memoir on 'Undevelopable Uniquadric Homographics .
' " By MARTIN GARDINEIR , C.E. Communicated by the Rev. R. ToWNsElND ) , F.R.S. Received April 13 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author 's method of investigation is purely geometrical throughout , its arrangement of details is systematic and natural , and it is divided into eight chapters , the first seven of which are preparatory to the consideration of the interesting problem discussed at length in the eighth , * Philosophical Transactions , 1864 , p. 158 .
It Ibid. 18( ; 5 , p. 9 .
2N2 389 the direct , general , and complete solution of which is claimed to be given in it for the first time .
Chapter I. , after some preliminary general properties , resulting immediately from the known properties of homographic systems of points on plane conics , treats more particularly of the simplest case of such systems on undevelopable quadrics , viz. of the case of systems in perspective , the several pairs of whose corresponding constituents possess manifestly the property of interchangeability ; shows that systems having three double points not in the same tangent plane to the quadric on which they lie are necessarily of that class , except only when they have a fourth double point not in the plane of the other three , in which case they altogether coincide ; and gives simple instances in which the problem , whose solution is the principal object of the memoir , is manifestly either " wholly or partially porismatic , " as he terms it .
Chapter II .
treats of systems whose several pairs of corresponding points are interchangeable but which are not in perspective ; shows that their several chords of connexion intersect the same two reciprocal lines with respect to the quadric on which they lie ; shows the relation between either system and the perspective of the other to any point on either of those lines , also the relation between either of two systems in perspective and the perspective of either to any point conjugate to their centre of perspective with respect to the surface ; and shows how to construct the two reciprocal lines from two pairs of corresponding points of the systems .
Chapter III .
treats of systems whose several pairs of corresponding points connect through a single common line , which have therefore an infinite number of double planes passing through that line ; shows that their several chords of connexion , besides intersecting the line , all touch a second quadric having double contact with the original , both at its two points of intersection with the line , and also at its two points of intersection with the reciprocal line ; proves a property of the cone enveloping either surface from any vertex taken arbitrarily on either line , shows the relation between either system and the perspective of the other to any point on either line ; and shows how to construct the two reciprocal lines from two pairs of corresponding points of the systems .
Chapter IV .
treats of systems having two of their four double planes non-tangential to the quadric on which they lie ; shows that the chords connecting their several pairs of corresponding points touch two cones enveloping the quadric along two planes colinear with and harmonically conjugate to each other with respect to the two non-tangential double planes ; proves that those touching along a plane section of either cone generate a skew quadric ; shows that the two homographic systems determined by the two correspondents in the two systems of a variable point on the quadric are of the class considered in the preceding chapter , having an infinite number of double planes passing through the line of intersection of the two non-tangential double planes of the original systems ; and shows the 390 [ May 14 , relation between either system and the perspective of the other to any point on that line of intersection .
Chapter V. treats of systems having their four double planes all tangential to the quadric on which they lie , shows that the chords connecting their several pairs of corresponding points touch two other quadrics having quadruple contact with the original at the four double points of the systems , and gives various constructions for the determination of the four double points when the law connecting the several pairs of corresponding points of the systems is given or known .
Chapter VI .
gives various criteria for determining in certain cases to which of the preceding classes two homographic systems belong , where , as in the problem whose solution forms the principal object of the memoir , the law connecting the same pairs of corresponding points of the systems is given or known .
Chapter VII .
contains numerous theorems , several of much interest and originality , respecting open and closed polygons inscribed in undevelopable quadrics , whose sides pass in the same order of sequence through a common system of points in space , all deduced from the principles established in the preceding chapters , and several having direct reference to the interesting problem to be considered in the next and closing chapter .
Chapter VIII.-Given an undevelopable quadric and n fixed points in to find the space ; first extremities of inscribable closed n'gons , or the locus of the first extremities when the inscription of the closed n'gons is porismatic .
When the number n of given points is odd .
Assume any three points a. , bl , cl in the surface , no two of which are on one generator , as first extremities , and proceed to inscribe 2n'gons .
( 1 ) If the three points be found to be first extremities of closed n'gons , then will the trace of their plane be the locus of first extremities of closed n'gons , the problem in such case being partially porismatic .
( 2 ) If the points are first extremities of closed 2n'gons , or if two of them be first extremities of closed 2n'gons and the third one a first extremity of a closed n'gon , or if one of the points be the first extremity of a closed 2n'gon , and the other two points first extremities of closed n'gons , then the line or lines forming the closing chords of the open n'gons composing the 2n'gon or 2n'gons ( as may be ) and the tangent plane or planes at the first extremity or extremities of the closed n'gon or n'gons ( as may be ) meet in one point p , the trace of whose polar plane R is the locus of first extremities of inscribable closed n'gons , the problem in such case being par .
tially porismatic .
( 3 ) If two of the points be first extremities of closed n'gons and the third point the first extremity of an open 2n'gon , then the problem is nonporismatic , and the two closed n'gons are the only inscribable closed n'gons .
Moreover the reciprocal of the line joining the first extremities of the two closed n'gons will pierce the quadric in points which are the first extremi- .
391 1868 .
] ties of inscribable closed 2n'gons ( real or imaginary according as the quadric S is ruled or convex ) .
( 4 ) If one of the three chosen points be the first extremity of an open 2n'gon ( no matter as to the other two points ) the problem is non-porismatic , and we can find the first extremities of the closed n'gons by either of the four following methods : First method.-Continue the 2n'gon until a 4n'gon be formed , and draw the plane P which contains the extremities of this 4n'gon and the point of junction of the two open 2n'gons composing it .
Assume another point in the surface , not in the trace of the plane P , and , making it a first extremity , inscribe another 4n'gon ; and through the extremities of this 4n'gon and the point of junction of the two open 2n'gons composing it draw a plane Q. Then with the line xx of intersection of the planes P and Q pierce the quadric in the only points ( real or imaginary as may be ) which are first extremities of closed n'gons ; and the line ii reciprocal to xx will pierce the quadric in points ( real or imaginary as may be ) which are first extremities of closed 24'gons .
Second mnethod.-By the additional inscription of another open n'gon convert the open 2n'gon into an open 3n'gon , and put A , B , C to represent the three open n'gons composing the open 3n'gon .
Find the point of puncture of the line through the first extreimity of A and the final extremity of B with the tanngent-plane at the junction of A and B ; find the point of puncture of the line through the first extremity of B and the final extremity of C with the tangent-plane at the junction of B and C. Then will the line xx through the two points of puncture pierce the quadric in two points ( real or imaginary as nay be ) which are the first extremities of the only inscribable closed 'goins ; and the line ii , which is reciprocal to xx , will pierce in first extremities of closed 2n'gons .
N.B. Wheni S is a hyperboloid of one sheet , and that the first extremities of the closed n'gons are real , then the first extremities of the closed 2n'gons are also real ; and it is evident there are two pairs of generators which are corresponding interchangeable lines in the homographic figiures in which the extreimities of the inscribable n'gons are pairs of corresponding points .
It is moreover evident that when all the corresponding points of such figures are not interchangeable , these are the only pairs of interehangeable generators ; and we must not assume the first extremities of the 4n'gons or 3n'gons in these lines .
Third mnethod.-Let o,1 o. , 03 , ... o be the n fixed points through which the sides must pass in order .
Assume the constant homological ratio -1 for homological systems , and making o1 vertex and its polar plane axis , find the point a homological to the centre ao of the quadric ; assume o2 as vertex and its polar plane as axis , and find the point a2 homological to a , ; and proceed thus directly in order through the n points until arrived at the point , , .
Assume o , ?
as vertex and its polar plane as axis , and find the point a-- .
homological to the 392 [ May 14 , centre a , of the quadric ; assume o , -I as vertex and its polar plane as axis , and find the point a--2 homological to a_l ; and proceed thus in reverse order through the rest of the n given points until arrived at the point a-n ( the points a , , a-n will be distinct ) .
Draw the diametral plane Ao which bisects the chords parallel to the line a , a- , ( it will also bisect a , n oa_ ) ; assume any two points in the trace of this plane as first extremities , and inscribe two n'gons in the quadric ; through the point an and the final extremities of these n'gons draw the plane A , ; find the line of intersection ii of the planes A , , A , , and its reciprocal xx .
Then will xx always pierce in the two points ( real or imaginary as may be ) which are the first extremities of the only inscribable closed n'gons ; and the line ii will pierce in first extremities of closed 2n'gons .
Fourth method.-Find the points a-n and a , , as in last method ; assume any point ao in the surface as first extremity , and inscribe a n'gon whose last extremity we may represent by a , ; draw the plane D1 which contains the line a_ , , and the point a , ; draw the plane D2 which contains the 0 , ao and the point a , ; in the lines , aoc , ao a , find the points m , , m such that z-0 , ,m on )=4 DI + P2 a0in , 0 m,2 Va D1 .
aO D2 and in the same lines find the points h , , h2 such that -n -1 11 _I % =_h2 / -a--n D , .
D , , / 1 , Ao ho2\K D , .
o , D Put j , Z , , to represent the homographic figures in which the first and final extremities of inscribable n'gons are corresponding points .
Regard mn2 and hA as points in , , and find their correspondents mi , ha in 2I , ; draw the planes mnm2m3 , h1h2h3 , and find their line of intersection xx and its reciprocal ii .
Then will the line xx pierce the quadric in the only points ( real or imaginary as may be ) which are first extremities of inscribable closed n'gons , and the line ii will pierce in first extremities of closed 2n'gons .
Moreover the planes mm2m , hi h~nm are the only two double planes of the figures X , , , , which are non-tangential to the quadric .
N.B. When the points a_ , , , , are coincident , the inscription of the closed n'gons is partially porismatic , and one of the two points which divide a-n , , and the diameter coincident with it harmonically is the point of concurrence of the closing chords of all inscribable open n'gons , and the polar plane of which passes through the other , &amp;c. When the centre of the quadric is a double point , then according as all the closing chords are parallels or pass through the centre , so will the locus of the first extremities of the closed n'gons be the trace of a diametral plane or of a plane at infinity .
Zlhen the number n of given points is even .
Assume three points al , bj , c , on the surface , no two of which are on 1868 .
] 393 the same generator ; and , making them first extremities , proceed to inscribe 2n'gons .
( 1 ) If these assumed points be found to be first extremities of closed n'gons , the problem is fully porismatic , and every point in the surface will be the first extremity of an inscribable closed n'gon .
( 2 ) If two of the points be fouled to be first extremities of closed n'gons and the other not , then the line xx through these two points , and the line ii reciprocal to xx , pierce the quadric in four points ( the punctures made by ii being real or imaginary as may be ) which constitute the first extremities of all the inscribable closed n'gons .
( 3 ) If one of the points be the first extremity of a closed n'gon , and another of them be first extremity of a closed 2n'gon .
Draw the closing chord of the two open n'gons composing the closed 2n'gon to pierce the tangentplane at the first extremity of the closed n'gon in the point p ; in the closing chord find the point pa which is conjugate to the point of puncture p ; through p and the first extremity of the closed n'gon draw the line xx , and find the line ii reciprocal to xx .
Then will the lines xx and ii pierce the quadric in the four points which constitute the first extremities of all the inscribable closed n'gons .
( 4 ) If two of the assumed points be found to be first extremities of closed 2n'gons , we may find the first extremities of the inscribable closed n'gons by either of the four following methods : First method.-Draw the two closing chords of the open n'gons composing the 2n'gons ; and , if these chords intersect in a point p , draw the line xx which is polar of p in respect to the trace of the plane of the two chords ; find the line ii reciprocal to xx .
Then will xx and ii pierce the quadric in the first extremities of the closed n'gons .
But if the chords do not intersect , draw tangent-planes at their extremities ; find the two pairs of points ( one pair in each chord ) which divide these closing chords and the segments intercepted by the tangent-planes harmonically ; draw the line xx through the two of these points which divide the chords internally ; draw the line ii through the two points which divide the chords externally .
Then will xx and ii be reciprocal lines piercing the quadric in four points which are first extremities of the inscribable closed n'gons .
Second method.-Find a a , , b6b6 , cc , the closing chords of three open n'gons .
If any two of these intersect , proceed as in the last method ; but if not , proceed as follows : In the chord ala , find the point m which corresponds to infinity ( on the same line ) in one of the homographic figures in which the extremities of all inscribable n'gons are corresponding interchangeable points ; in the same chord ala , find the two points x and i such that mx=mi= ^mal .
ma2 ; through x draw the line xx which cuts the two non-planar chords blb , , c , c , ; through i draw the line ii which cuts the same two non-planar chords b , b , , clc2 .
Then will xx and ii be reciprocal lines piercing the quadric in the four points which are the first extremities of closed n'gons .
394 [ May 14 , Third method.-Draw aa2,6 bib2 the closing chords of the open n'gons composing the closed 2n'gons .
If these two lines intersect in a point p , draw the line xx through the points in ata2 , blb2 which are harmonic conjugates to p in respect to the segments aa , b66 find the line ii reciprocal to xx .
Then will xx and ii pierce the quadric in the four points which are first extremities of closed n'gons .
But if ala2 , blb2 do not intersect , then find the final extremity c2 of the n'gon having the point cl as first extremity ; and if the line , ee2 cuts either a1a2 or b6b2 , the lines xx and ii can be found in the manner just indicated .
If c1c2 do not cut either of the lines aa2 , b6b2 , then find the points a , , a. in which a a2 pierces the planes b6b2c , b6b2c2 ; find the points 3 , P/ 2 in which b , b2 pierces the planes a1a2c1 , a1a2cA ; find the points hl , h2 which divide the segments a , a2 , a]a2 harmonically ; find the points kt , k2 which divide the segments b6b , , 31f2 harmonically ; through the two points h , , k1 , cutting ala , b1b2 internally , draw the line xx ; through the two points h2 , k2 , cutting aa,2 , b , b6 externally , draw the line ii .
Then will xx and ii be reciprocal lines piercing the quadric in the four points which are first extremities of closed n'gons .
Fourth method.-Put 2 , and 2 , , to represent the homographic figures in which the first and final extremities of all inscribable nz'gons are corresponding points ; find the point a , which corresponds in either of the figures 2 , 2 , to the centre ao of the quadric regarded as belonging to the other figure ; find the diameter dld2 which contains the points ao , c ; find the points p , q which divide the segments did2 and a , oa harmonically ; draw the plane P which is polar to the point p which lies outside the quadric ; find the point a2 which is final extremity of a n'gon whose first extremity is in the trace of the plane P ; draw xx the diameter of the trace of P which bisects a a2 ( the point a2 will be in the trace of P ) ; find the line ii reciprocal to xx .
Then will xx and ii pierce in first extremities of the four inscribable closed n'gons .
But if the centre a of the quadric be a double point of the figures .
, , 2 , , , proceed as follows:-Inscribe any n'gon in the quadric , and draw the diameter xx which bisects its closing chord .
Then will the diameter xx and its reciprocal at infinity pierce the quadric in the four points which are first extremities of closed n'gons .
( 5 ) When we can inscribe an open 2n'gon the problem is always nonporismatic , and we can find the lines xx , ii which pierce the quadric in first extremities of the four closed n'gons by either of the four following methods : First method.-Put 2 , and 2 , , to represent the homographic figures in which the first and final extremities of all inscribable n'gons are corresponding points .
In the figures 2 , and 2I find the points o1 and o2 which are the correspondents of the centre o of the quadric regarded as belonging to the figures 2 , and I2 ; draw the diameter ror which bisects o , o , ; find the line r1o1r , in 2^ which corresponds to ror in I2 ; bind the line r'r ' reciprocal to r1lr ; through the centre o draw the diametral plane K which bisects all chords parallel to ror ; find the points p , p in which the reciprocal lines r1r , , 1868 .
] 395 rr'r pierce the plane K ; draw any plane P parallel to K , and through the points pu , p ' in which it cuts r , r , and 'r ' draw lines parallel to the diameter rr to pierce the plane K in points t , , ' ; through the centre o draw ( see 'Section of Ratio ' of Apollonius ) the two lines ox1x ' , oi , i ' so that P x : : P i ' : : i ' : : pi : P , , p ' ; through x , and xl draw lines parallel to rr to cut r , r1 and r'r ' in points x and x ; through i , and i ' draw lines parallel to rr to cut r1r ' and r'r ' in i and i. Then will the lines xx and ii be reciprocals piercing the quadric in the four points which are first extremities of the inscribable closed n'gons .
Second method .
In the closing chord c , c , of any inscribed open n'gon assume any point p , and for the moment regard it as n+-lth point of a series having the n fixed points as first n points ; choose four points b6 , r , , e1 , f in the surface so that no two of the five c , , b , dl , e , Jf lie on one generator ; find the final points b2 , d , , e2 , f. of inseribed ( n+ 1)'gons whose sides pass in order through the n+ I points , and which have b , , dl , el , f as first extremities .
Then ( representing tangent-planes at points by capital letters of like names , and subscript numbers as the small ones representing the points of contact ) in the chord decld find the point d , such that d , ld _ d , lB .
CqBl p2d2 d. , B2 c1l2 in the chord e , e.2 find the point e , such that e , e3 el , B. c , B , e2e3 e2B2 cBW29 in the chord f , f find the point f such that f,3_f , B , CIB,1 f2f3 f2B2 c'B2 ( the points d3 , e3 , f , must be so determined as that a realtangent-plane can pass through either of them ) ; draw the plane d , e,3f and it will touch the quadric in a point a , ; draw the line cla , , and find the point q in it which is conjugate to p. Now if we regard the n given fixed points and the point q as the n+1 points of a series , every point in the surface will be the first extremity of a closed 2(n+ l)'gon .
Find ( by last case ) the two reciprocal lines yy , zz which pierce the quadric in first extremities of closed ( n+ l)'gons whose sides pass in order through these n+ 1 points ; find the linep'q ' reciprocal to pq ; draw the lines xx , ii , each of which cuts the four non-planar lines yy zz , pq , p'q ' .
Then will xx and ii be reciprocal lines piercing in four points which are the first extremities of the inscribable closed n'gons .
Third method.-On the closing chord c1c2 of any inscribed open n'gon assume any point p , and regard it for the moment as the n+ 1thl point of a series to which the n fixed points belong .
Assume three points b , d , e , in the surface so that no two of the points c , , 6 , , dl , e1 are on one generator , and findl the final extremities b6 , cdL , e , of inscribed ^'gons having b6 , , re , as first extremities ; draw the tangent-plane ( C , at the point c , ; put DP , D. , 396 A[May 14 , E1 , E2 to represent the four planes dLb , , , d.2b2el , e1b , , e.2b2e respectively ; through the line of intersection of the planes D , , D , draw the plane P the distances of any point in which from DI and D , / have to each other the ratio of b-D , to -C- ; through the line of intersection of the planes E , , bD C1 E2 draw the plane Q which is such that the ratio of the distances of ally point in it from E1 and E , is the same as that of U--E to f,1 ; find the line of intersection mm of the planes P , Q ( this line mm will be a tangent to the quadric ) , and the point a , in which it touches the quadric ; in the line c1a , find the point q conjugate to p. Then if we regard the n given fixed points and the point q as n+ points of a series , any point in the surface will be first extremity of a closed 2(n+ l)'gon .
Find , by the preceding case , the two reciprocal lines yy , zz which pierce the quadric in first extreni ties of closed ( n + 1)'gons whose sides pass in order through these nf 1 points ; find the line p'q ' reciprocal to pq ; draw the lines xx and ii each of which cuts the four non-planar lines yy , zzp , pq , ' .
Then will xx and ii be reciprocals piercing in first extremities of the four inscribable closed n'gons .
Fourth method.-The following method is applicable in all cases in which n is even .
Omit temporarily the nth point on ' of the given n points , and find the line U which pierces the quadric in the two first extremities of inscribable closed ( n--l)'gons whose sides pass in order through the n--I poii.lts ; find the point q in the line U which is conjugate to the omitted nth pjoint o , ? .
Then if we regard the n-1 given points and the point q as forming the n points of a new series , any point in the surface will be the first extremity of a closed 2n'gon .
Find the two reciprocal lines yy , zz which pierce the quadric in first extremities of closed n'gons whose sides pass in order through the new series of n points ; find the line p'g ' reciprocal to o , q ; draw the lines xx , ii each of which cuts the four non-planar lines yy , zz , o.q , p'q ' .
Then will the lines xx and ii be reciprocals piercing the quadric in first extremities of the four inscribable closed n'gons whose sides pass in order through the n given points .
But if the inscription of the closed ( n-l )'gons be partially porismatic , and p the point of concurrence of the closing chords of the inscribable open ( nl)'gons , then will the line xx through o. and p , and the line ii reciprocal to xx pierce the quadric in the first extremities of the inscribable closed n'gons .
N.B. And if o , be ill such case coincident with p , then the problem is fully porismatic , and every point in the surface is the first extremity of a closed n'gon .
N.B. We may also observe that when the inscription of the closed ( n )'gons is non-porismatic , and that the point o , is situated in the line U , then , by conceiving q coincident with o , the lines yy , zz will be identical with xx and ii .
I may observe that the general problem can be completely solved by 1868 .
] 397 " ' methods of reduction , " amongst which the following is perhaps the most obvious and simple : Let S be the quadric , and o ?
o2 , O % , o4 , ... o the n given points .
Put xx for the line through o , and o , .
Instead of o2 and ol we can substitute the point p , in which the line xx is cut by the plane o , o4o , , and another point p , determinable in the same line xx .
Then instead of the four planar points Pa , o8 , o , 0 we can ( see theorem 38 ) substitute two other points p , , p4 in the same plane ; and therefore instead of the series of n points , we can substitute the series of n2 points p1 , PS , P4 , OG , * o , and the inscribable ( n-2)'gons , closed and open as may be , whose sides pass in order through these points will have extremities identical with the extremities of inscribable n'gons .
And thus step by step we can reduce the number of sides , until at length we find three points or four points , according as n is odd or even , such that the extremities of all inscribed 3'gons or 4'gons whose sides pass in order through such points are identical with extremities of inscribable n'gons whose sides pass through the original n points ; and therefore to solve the problem all we have to do is to inscribe the closed 3'gons or closed 4'gons as may be .
And in respect to this method we may observe , ( 1 ) If any four consecutive points of any of the series be colinear and such as to render the inscription of closed 4'gons real , we may omit such points altogether from the series .
( 2 ) When n is odd , and that we reduce the problem to the inscription of closed 3'gons whose sides pass through three known points , then should such points be colinear or form a conjugate triad , the problem will be partially porismatic .
( 3 ) In the case in which n is odd , it is easy to perceive how the problem can be reduced to the drawing of a line through a known point to cut two reciprocal lines ( which point will be on one of the lines when the problem is partially porismatic ) .
And when n is even , it is easy to see how the problem can be reduced to the drawing of the two lines which cut two pair of ( determinable ) reciprocal lines .
( 4 ) The following method of finding the line in the plane of four points which pierces in first extremities of closed 4'gons is obvious:-Let o , o , O8 , o4 be the four planar points .
Find p the point of intersection of the lines 0o2o , o,04 ; in the line o1o , find the point m such that o~oQ , mp , and the pair of ( real or imaginary ) points in which o1 , o pierces the quadric , will form an involution ; in the line o o , find the point n such that the pairs of points 034 ' , pn , and the points in which o0o4 pieces the quadric , form an involution .
Then will the line mn pierce in first extremities of closed 4'gors .
398 [ May 14 ,

