303 The Effect of Heat upon the Electrical State of Living .
By A. D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. ( Received February 20 , \#151 ; Read March 4 , 1909 .
) I. Of Muscle .
The question whether the sudden application of heat acts as a physiological stimulus to nerve and muscle naturally leads on to a study of the effect of local heat upon the electrical state of living tissues .
I have done this ( 1 ) upon muscle , ( 2 ) upon nerve , and ( 3 ) upon the skin .
As far as I know , the only tissue hitherto tested in this respect is muscle.* * * S Du Bois-Reymond first , f then Worm-MtillerJ in more detail , observed that a muscle dipping in an indifferent fluid that was gradually heated and led off to the galvanometer from the fluid and from the undipped muscle exhibited , with rise of temperature , positivity followed by negativity of the undipped portion .
Hermann , in 1870 , S flatly contradicts this statement , but in the following year|| gives an account of experiments from which he concludes that warmer portions of living muscle are positive in relation to cooler portions , i.e. that differences of temperature in the muscle give rise to a special electromotive force ( eine besondere elektromotorische Kraft ) .
But the protocols of his experiments , especially when they are plotted as curves , are not very convincing .
The question is one that requires to be carefully re-tested .
None of the experiments quoted affords any conclusive proof that the influence of rise of temperature upon muscle currents were true physiological effects apart from physical ( thermo-electric ) changes .
The method employed in the present series of observations was as indicated in the following representative experiment .
* I learn that Engelmann , in 1872 , examined the influence of temperatui'e upon skin-currents , obtaining with rise of temperature a negative variation of the normal current , ' Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 6 , p. 138 .
f Du Bois-Reymond , ' Untersuchungen iiber Thierische Elektricitat , ' vol. 2 , p. 178 ; ' Gesammelte Abliandlungen , ' etc. , vol. 2 , p. 202 .
+ ' Worm-Muller , ' Versuche iiber die Einflusse der Warm auf die elektromotorischen Krafte der Muskeln und Nerven , ' Wurzburg , 1868 .
S Hermann , " Versuche iiber den Verlauf der Stromentwicklung beim Absterben.'* ' Pflliger 's Archiv , ' vol. 3 , p. 43 , 1870 : " Genau bei 40 ' ... .
entwickelt sich ein im lebenden Muskel aufsteigender Strom .
Die absterbende Muskelsubstanz erlangt also ilire Negativitat gegen die lebende in dem Moment der Erstarrung ... ... ... Eine ( nicht thermoelektrische ) Positivitat der erwarmten Substanz im Sin Worm-Miiller 's existirt nicht .
" || Hermann , same title , 'Pluger 's Archiv , ' vol. 4 , p. 163 , 1871 .
304 Dr. A. D. Waller .
Effect of Heat upon the [ Feb. 20 , A sartorius muscle led off to the galvanometer in the usual way .
A platinum wire adjusted transversely under one of the electrodes A or B of an accumulator , a metronome key and a hand-key K , all in the same circuit , so that the metronome gives regular brief periods of closure ( when the hand-key is also closed ) that raise the platinum wire to a red heat for a fraction of a second .
The glowing wire heats the muscle locally at A by Muscle preparation .
radiation and by the ascending current of heated air .
The heat is graduated by bringing the wire nearer or farther from the muscle , or by varying the number of effective closures , or by varying a resistance in the accumulator circuit .
It can be calculated if required .
But the important condition to be secured is not so much an accurately known amount of heat as an accurately repeated application of a definite regular amount of heat .
In these experiments the heat at each glow of the wire amounted to 008 calorie .
The movements of the muscle are recorded by a lever on the smoked cylinder or plate .
The movements of the galvanometer mirror indicative of the electrical changes are at the same time recorded photographically .
Result:\#151 ; Moderate heat at B gives current in the muscle from A to B. Excessive heat at B gives current in the muscle from B to A( = a current of injury ) .
After which moderate heat at B gives hardly any effect , because B is injured .
Dead ( i.e. heat-rigored ) muscle gives small effects in the same direction , that are ordinary physical ( thermo-electric ) effects .
The results on muscle are nearly quite satisfactory , the only drawback to their absolutely conclusive character is this small residual positive effect in the same direction as the ordinary thermo-electric currents from the heated side .
But as will be understood from the consideration of skin effects , even 1909 .
] Electrical State of Living Tissues .
this doubtful feature is eliminated when muscle-effects and skin-effects are .studied comparatively .
A_________B_ ' I. Muscle\#151 ; Heat ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
^-------------Excitation or injury ... .
-e\#151 ; \#151 ; II .
Nerve\#151 ; Heat ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Excitation or injury ... .
\#151 ; \#151 ; ^ III .
SkinHeat ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ^ ^-----Excitation ... ... ... ... . .
\#151 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; . .
\gt ; \gt ; The arrows under A and B indicate the direction of currents the tissue in response to local warmth or local excitation at A and at B respectively : \#166 ; e.g. , if muscle , led off at A and B to the galvanometer , is heated at B , there is current in the galvanometer from B to A , in the muscle from A to B as indicated by the first arrow under B. Following the usual phraseology , we ; say that B becomes " positive .
" The second arrow under B indicates that there is current from B to A in the muscle when B is rendered , active by injury or excitation , or , according to usual phraseology , B becomes " negative .
" The arrows opposite the nerve indicate the analogous currents by local warmth or by local excitation , identical in direction with those of muscle .
The local skin currents both to heat and to excitation are of reverse direction to those of muscle ( and of nerve ) , e.g. , if skin led off by electrodes A and B applied to its external surface is warmed at B , there is current in the galvanometer from A to B ( " ingoing " current at B , or B " negative " to A ) .
If it is excited at B , there is current in the galvanometer from B to A ( " outgoing " current at B , or B " positive " to A ) .
In the foregoing description the ordinary terms " negative " and " positive " have been used .
For my own part I find it conducive to clearness to think of the active spot B as " electro-positive , " giving current from B to A in the tissue , rather than as " negative , " giving current from B to A through the galvanometer , and I call B " zincative .
" But the least ambiguous description \#166 ; of direction of current between A and B is afforded by the arrows .
II .
Of Nerve .
A nerve disposed in a similar manner gives similar results , with this difference , that the positive response to heat is relatively more evanescent and more easily replaced by the negative response to injury .
This disappearance may occur so rapidly that a photograph taken after a few trial deflections may exhibit only a series of injury responses ( negative with increasing negativity ) , the heat responses ( positive with increasing negativity ) having occurred with the trial deflections .
It is advisable , therefore , to take Dr. A. D. Waller .
Effect of Heat upon the [ Feb. 20 , nerve-photographs without any preliminary trials , as will be obvious on consideration of the record given herewith .
III .
Of Skin .
Frog 's skin , which , according to my previous observations , * invariably responds to local excitation by an outgoing current when led off by its external , but not by its internal , surface , is a particularly satisfactory tissue upon which to study the electrical effects of heat , for the electrical sign of the local effect of excitation is the reverse of that of muscle or nerve , and it possesses an effective ( external ) surface and an ineffective ( internal ) surface that can be separately tested .
Experiment.\#151 ; Two unpolarisable electrodes A and B , in contact with the external or effective surface of the skin to a galvanometer .
A stirrup of platinum wire in an accumulator and metronome circuit as for muscle .
Heat under B gives a large effect in the negative direction , indicating ; current in the skin from B to A ( = B zincative ) , in the contrary direction to that of the current aroused by electrical or mechanical excitation .
Repeating the trial with the skin turned round so that the electrodes A B are in contact with its inner ineffective surface .
Warmth applied as before to B gives little or no deflection ; the deflection , if any , is in the opposite ( negative ) direction .
A killed piece of skin gives little or no deflection from the warmed spot B ; the deflection , if any , is small and in the positive direction .
Thus in the living skin as in living muscle a current is aroused by warmth which is antidrome to the current aroused by electrical excitation ; the facts-in the two cases are as follows :\#151 ; Muscle Local excitation of A. Local warmth , to A. A negative A positive A positive A negative Skin Photographic records of the electrical effects of heat upon muscle , nerve , and skin .
The connections in the three cases are with two points , A and B , as given above , heat being in each case applied at A or at B , as indicated by the signal marks h , h , giving in the case of muscle and in that of nerve heated at B response in the direction from A to B , and in that of the skin from B to A. I. The muscle record consists of three successive positive responses to heat .
* Waller , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 68 , p. 480 , 1901 , " Signs of Life .
" 1909 .
] Electrical State of Living Tissues .
at A ( A = antizn .
) ; the general after-effect is in the negative direction , followed by four positive responses to heat at B ( B = antizn .
) ; the general 5432 I 01 2345 5 4 3 2 10 123*5 * \gt ; M M \gt ; A I I I I t A j-r " 100O1*\#151 ; ^ c/ \gt ; V- E ; g k- f k- r cr % ^4 Dr. A. D. Waller .
Effect of Heat upon the [ Feb. 20 , after-effect is negative .
The muscle is then scalded , and submitted to five successive glows as before ; when a smaller deflection in the positive direction occurs at each glow .
It is presumably a physical ( thermo-electric ) effect .
II .
The nerve record consists of three successive effects of three successive glows under B , followed by four successive effects of four successive glows under A. In the B group the first response is positive , the second is small positive followed by large negative , and the third is negative .
In the A group the first ( positive ) response is the largest , the second ( positive ) is smaller , the third is smallest and gives place to a deflection in the negative direction , due to injury , the fourth is a small negative deflection .
III .
The skin record consists of two groups of four successive responses ; in the first group the external surface , in the second group the internal surface , of the skin is led off to the galvanometer .
In the first group , each response at B is relatively large and the current is directed in the skin from B to A ( " ingoing " current , or B zincative ) .
In the second group the responses are hardly perceptible .
In muscle ( and in nerve ) , where the electrical effect of local excitation is " negative , " the effect of moderate heat is " positive .
" In the skin , where the electrical effect of local excitation is " positive , " the effect of moderate heat is " negative .
" Excessive heat , producing injury , gives a " negative " effect in muscle ( and nerve ) , a " positive " effect in the skin .
N.B.\#151 ; " Negative " = " Zincative .
" " Positive " = " Antizincative .
" To my understanding , the expressions " positive " and " negative " are ambiguous without this specification , and the description given in the text in terms of " positive " and " negative , " while correct , is very confusing .
The general conclusion from all these experiments is that the first electrical effect of moderate local heat is of opposite direction to that of local excitation and of local excessive heat , i.e. that the effect of moderate heat is " anti-excitatory .
" [ \#166 ; Postscript { added May 27).\#151 ; ' In consequence of a question put to me at the conclusion of the demonstration that accompanied the above communication , I have taken observations on the effects of gradual rise and fall of temperature upon the normal ( ingoing ) current as well as upon the electrical response of the frog 's skin .
The alterations of temperature were brought about by gradually warming and cooling a metal box containing the skin and electrodes , the thermometer giving the temperature of the air in the box .
With rising temperature the electrical response of the skin increased at 1909 .
] Electrical State of Living Tissues .
first and subsequently diminished , disappearing at a box temperature of between 45 ' and 50 ' .
The normal ( ingoing ) current at first increased and subsequently diminished .
With falling temperature the electrical response diminished progressively , being altogether abolished at a box temperature of between \#151 ; 4 ' and \#151 ; 5 ' .
The normal ingoing current diminished progressively with the fall of temperature .
At the box temperature of 4 ' to 5 ' a sudden diminution of the ingoing current ( i.e. an outgoing effect ) was sometimes witnessed , which I attributed to an excitation occurring at the point of congelation .
But in other cases mere irregular deflections were seen at this point .
Thus , as may be seen from the accompanying plotted curves , the effect of heat and of cold was in the same ( outgoing ) direction ; the increased ingoing effect at the first application of heat being no greater than the spontaneous increase that takes place without alteration of temperature .
] VOLT 0-002 0-003 MIN 5 Effect of gradual rise of temperature upon the normal Effect of gradual fall of temperature upon the skin current .
Upper line = E.M.F. readings by normal skin current .
Upper line = E.M.F. compensator ; lower line = temperature curve .
readings by compensator ; lower line = ternperature curve .

