140 Dr. G. Gore .
On the [ Dec. 8 , the direction of motion in the line joining the centre of disturbance and the point of observation , while the other set has the direction of motion at right angles to that line .
The first of these is denominated the direct wave , and the second the transverse wave .
The direct wave has a greater amplitude and a slightly shorter period of motion at the source , but seems to die out more rapidly than the transverse wave .
The amplitude of the direct vibrations seems never to have exceeded 05 millim. at 50 feet , and OT millim. at 250 feet from the centre .
The amplitude of vibration was very nearly inverselv as the distance from the source .
The direct wave was completely cut off by the pond and nearly , if not completely , by the hill , but the transverse wave extended along the distant side of the pond to a considerable distance , and was little affected by the hill .
When the motion of a point on the earth 's surface was registered by means of a seismograph , it was found to be such as would result from the composition of two harmonic motions of different period , and in different directions .
One of the most important points attended to in these experiments was the determination of the velocity of propagation for the different waves .
The method finally adopted for this purpose was to mark by means of a telegraphic arrangement , simultaneously , and at definite intervals , on two smoked glass plates , placed \#174 ; *t different distances along the same line from the source , the same instant of time .
These plates were moved by clockwork , and were used for the reception of the seismograph record .
It is evident that the time-marks on the plate give the means of comparing the times of arrival of the direct , or the transverse wave , according to circumstances at the two stations , and hence , knowing the time-interval between the marks on the plates , the velocity of propagation could readily be calculated .
As the result of these observations the surprisingly low velocity of 438 feet per second for the direct , and 35 feet per second for the transverse wave , was obtained .
The soft nature of the material through which the disturbance was propagated is given as the probable reason for this result .
The results of similar experiments by Mr. Robert Mallet , at the Hellgate explosions , in New York Harbour , are referred to .
At the conclusion of the paper an example of the records obtained in actual earthquakes is given and briefly described .
VIII .
' ' On the Electrolytic Diffusion of Liquids .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 8 , 1881 .
In a paper on the " Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids " ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 32 , 1881 ) , I described a number Electrolytic Diffusion of Liquids .
1881 .
] .
resulting from the passage of an electric current verti'fn Through the boundary surfaces of mutual contact of two + lvteslving upon each other .
As it was not possible by means electrolytes y g P ^ ^ that research to definitely ascertain ' hither the mass of liquid expanded or moved as a whole in the line If the current , I devised the following arrangement for the purpose of more conclusively testing that question , and to obtain additiona xlata to assist in explaining the phenomena previously observed .
A is a glass vessel containing the heavier liquid , B is a glass tube about 15 centims. long and 2 centims. diameter , containing the lighter solution , and capable of being raised and lowered by means of the rack C and a pinion ( not shown in the sketch ) , attached to a fixed upright support .
The tube B is closed at the lower end by an india-rubber bung , in a hole in the centre of which is fixed the open glass meniscus tube D , about 16 ' millims. long , and having a bore of about 6 millims. ; it is also closed at the top by a perforated bung , through which proceeds an open glass tube E , of somewhat smaller 142 On the Electrolytic Diffusion of Liquids .
[ Dec. 8 .
diameter than the meniscus tube , and about 15 centims. W. To the upper end of E is attached an india-rubber tube E , provided with a pinch tap G. H and I are two sheet platinum electrodes , each about ' centims. long , and 18 millims. wide , for connexion with a voltaic battery .
The connecting wire of H is hermetically sealed in a glass tiibo , winch fits air-tight into the bung .
In using this apparatus , the vessel A is shifted from its place , and the heavier liquid poured into it .
The tube B is then filled by means of suction at J with the lighter liquid up to a level in E , a little above the bung The tube P is then closed by means of the pinch-tap G the vessel A replaced , and B , \amp ; c. , lowered by means of the rack and pinion until the pressure of liquid in A just balances that in B , the difference of level being approximately determined beforehand ' by taking the specific gravities of the two liquids .
A definite meniscus is then easily formed in the tube D , by opening the pinch-tap and raising B until a drop of liquid issues below , and then lowering it a minute distance .
It is particular that no air bubble exists in B , and in order to facilitate the escape of any , the interior !
0f the upper bung is made of a funnel shape , and coated very smoothly with sealing wax .
In an experiment I made with this apparatus , the heavier liquid was a solution of nitrate of mercury of specific gravity 1"30 , and the lighter one a solution of cupric nitrate , specific gravity 1-22 .
With an upward current from 18 Grove 's elements in single series , a colourless horizontal line soon appeared below the meniscus in D , advanced downward , and underflowed the end of the meniscus tube .
Neither the meniscus in the lower tube D , nor that in the upper one E , shifted in position during the passage of the current .
These results were repeatedly verified with the meniscus at different distances , varying from one-sixteenth to one-eighth of an inch above the bottom of the-tube .
Remarks .
These results show first , and most conclusively , that liquid diffused downwards continuously through the meniscus during the passage of the upward current ; and second , that during the continuance of the current , either no manifest expansion occurred in the bulk of the liquid in B , and that equal volumes of liquid diffused in two opposite directions through the lower meniscus ; or , that any expansion of the bulk of liquid in tube B was compensated for by downward diffusion of an equal bulk of liquid .
Another possibility is that the united volumes of the metallic deposited copper , and of the acid element from which it had been separated by electrolysis , was greater than before such separation , and that this was compensated for by the volume of liquid diffused downwards through the meniscus .

