502 Prof. W. J. Sollas .
Report to the Committee appointed frequency it is seen that they coincide with the diagonal from the O/ O corner ; also that the entries of minimum frequency are disposed symmetrically on either side of that diagonal and converge towards the same corner .
Consequently , the existence of spurious correlation is manifest here .
If B he the constant , and A and 0 the variables , the general results will of course be the same .
Secondly , let both A and B be constant and equal to I , and C the only variable ; then there are only three possible combinations of A/ C and B/ C. In one of them both values are equal to I , in another to I/ II , and in the third to I/ III , all of which lie along the diagonal from ( 0 , O ) , and thus testify to intimate correlation .
Lastly , let C be the only constant and equal to 1 .
Then A/ C , B/ C , become A and B , and the table of frequency of their various combinations is that shown in Table I and by the large figures in fig. 1 , whose symmetrical disposition in all directions proves that there is no correlation .
" Report to the Committee of the Royal Society appointed to Investigate the Structure of a Coral Reef by Boring .
' ' By W. J. Sollas , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Dublin .
Received December 31 , 1896 , \#151 ; Read February 11 , 1897 .
Prefatory Note by Professor T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.Ii .
S. , Vice-Chairman of the Committee .
In presenting , as desired by the Committee , Professor Sollas 's report-on the attempts to ascertain , by boring , the structure of the atoll of Funafuti and on other investigations simultaneously undertaken , I avail myself of the opportunity of expressing the gratitude which is felt by its members to our friends in New South Wales , who have given such real and substantial help , especially by the loan of machinery and skilled wmrkmen , in putting the project into execution ; and among ' them chiefly to Professor Anderson Stuart ( who has been practically another secretary in Australia ) , Professor Edgeworth David , Mr. W. H. J. Slay ( Chief Inspector of Mines ) , and Sir Saul Samuel ( the Agent-General of the Colony in England ) .
I shall venture also to acknowledge gratefully the services of Captain Field and the officers of H.M.S. ** Penguin,5 ' and the unstinted labour which has been given by Mr. W. W. Watts , F.G.S. , our Secretary in London , in carrying out our plans .
In conclusion , may I express , speaking for myself , my earnest hope that another attempt will be made to determine the true structure of an atoll .
I think , however , that our experience on this occasion shows that the attempt can be to investigate the Structure o Coral Reef by Boring .
503 much more easily made , and with a far greater probability of success , if Australia instead of England be the base of operations , and I trust that before long the colony of Sydney will initiate an expedition , and we shall co-operate with them as cordially as they have done with us .
Report by Professor Sottas , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. H.M.S. " Penguin " having come to anchor in the lagoon ot Funafuti on the afternoon of Thursday , the 21st of May , Captain Field at once landed with Lieutenant Dawson , Ails ( the foreman of the boring party ) , and myself , and Ave proceeded to make arrangements for our work on the island .
A site for boring was chosen near the sandy beach of the lagoon , conATeniently situated for the landing of gear , less than half a mile to the south and west of the village of Funafuti , and near the Arillage well , which supplies a small amount of brackish but drinkable water .
The work of landing was commenced the next morning , and completed by May 26 .
The erection of the boring apparatus was at once taken in hand , and on June 2 , twelve days after our arrival on the island , all was in readiness for commencing operations .
On June 3 the 6-inch tubes were driven into the sand , and by June 6 they had been advanced 30 feet ; the 5-inch pipes were then entered and everything made ready for inserting the diamond crown and commencing to drill on Monday , June 8 .
On June 10 it Avas arranged that the Avork should proceed by shifts , so that the drilling might be carried on continuously day and night .
During the first shift the crown had been advanced 20 feet , making the total depth then attained 52 feet 9 inches ; during this shift fragments of highly cavernous coral rock Avere brought up in the core barrel from a depth of between 40 and 50 feet .
On June 11 , a depth of 85 feet having been reached , it was found necessary to ream the hole preparatory to lining , and by June 15 the necessary reaming and lining had been completed .
Up to this , although we had been somewhat disappointed at our slow rate of progress , occasioned partly by the unfavoui'able nature of the ground and partly by the frequent failure of our machinery , we had anticipated nothing worse than the possibility of finding our allotted time exhausted before we had reached a depth of 1000 feet ; but noAV , on setting the crown to Avork , it very soon ceased to advance , and Ails shortly afterwards came to me to announce that , in his opinion , the boring was a failure .
Nevertheless , some further progess was subsequently made , and on Tuesday , June 16 , a depth of 105 feet Avas attained .
It then became once more necessary to ream and line the hole .
Attempts to ream were continued all through Wednesday and Thursday but without success , sand poured into the hole and the reamer could not be driven through it .
Efforts Avere made to remove 504 Prof. W. J. Sollas .
Report to the Committee appointed the sand by a sancl-pump , bat proved unavailing , the sand flowing in faster than it could be pumped out .
Ails assured me that it was impossible to descend another foot , 'and that he considered further labour as time and money thrown away .
We decided therefore to abandon this borehole , and to recommence operations on another site , if possible in solid rock .
The structure of the ground passed through in the abandoned borehole was as follows :\#151 ; T ; :yl 52 ft. 9 in .
35 ft. / 05ft .
\#166 ; m \#169 ; ; .** * .
1Wi$ I ak * ' * ' . .
.fcV .
Sand yv/ th some coral blocks .
Coral reefs and blocks some sand .
Sand mtb some blocks .
Although I knew of many places where solid rock forms the surface of the ground , it was very difficult to find one to which we could transport our machinery , the difficulties of landing on a rocky shore rendered several promising spots inaccessible by sea , wrhile the absence of wheeled vehicles or even wheels , and the nature of the ground , seemed to put transportation by land out of the question .
At last , however , Mr. Hedley pointed out to me a portage called Luamanif , and used by the natives for dragging their canoes from the lagoon to the seaward side of the island , which at this place is very narrow , about 70 yards across .
As this seemed a good landing-place , I submitted it to the consideration of Captain f ield , who , after a personal examination , agreed that we might safely make use of it .
Ails and his party were then set to to investigate the Structure of a Coral Reef by Boring .
505 work to sink trial pits on the line of the portage , one of these , situated 70 feet from the high-water mark on the seaward face of the reef , was sunk 12 feet through sand and blocks of coral , when operations were brought a close owing to the influx of sea-water at high tides .
Two other pits were then commenced nearer the sea and a little to one side ( north ) of the portage , at the margin of the solid platform of rock , which extends down to the growing edge of the reef and which is covered by the sea at high-water .
These passed through sand and fragments of coral .
In the most northern of the two pits the sand was somewhat consolidated , and so , proceeding a few yards further north , as far in that direction as it would have been possible to transport our machinery , we opened another pit , which was sunk for a depth of 11 feet through fragments of coral , crystalline coral limestone , and partly consolidated sand .
The bottom of the pit was 2 feet below the seaward margin of the reef , and as we were not inconvenienced by an influx of sea-water and Ails was of opinion that the rock would " stand , " wo decided to make our new venture at this spot .
Taking into consideration the difficulties of transporting our apparatus , I do not think a more favourable locality could have been chosen ; it was close to the very-edge of the rocky platform , which is so hard that Darwin , speaking of a similar platform in the case of another reef , says t ; I could with difficulty and only by the aid of a chisel procure chips of rock from its surfaceand as near the sea as it was prudent or even possible to go .
Indeed , we had at first some doubt as to whether our pumping pipes would t ; live " in the surf of the ocean margin , and feared that the high-water spring tides might inundate the shaft ; our fears in these respects , hovrever , proved to be groundless .
/ /jy level Ljy.'evel , Ccean face .
/ rial p , ; C / .
Site cf Boring mm */ /fae\#163 ; Captain Field and myself were impressed with the need of additional boring apparatus , and he proposed that Ails should g-o to Sidney to see if it could be procured .
I gave much anxious consideration to this project , and discussed it with my colleagues , Messrs. Hedley and Gardiner , and with Ails .
The information I received from Ails was not encouraging .
He stated that we should require a complete equipment of lining tubes from 10 inches down to 2\#177 ; inches in diameter , that 10-inch tubes were not to be had in Sydney , and that even if we succeeded in obtaining all the 506 Prof. W. J. Sollas .
Report to Committee appointed appliances we required , the success of the boring would even then by-no means be assured .
For a doubtful result I did not feel justified in incurring the certain increase in our expenditure which a journey to Sydney would have involved ; the question of time had also to be considered , for had Ails gone to Sydney we should on his return have been commencing our boring at or after the date the Committee had considered it would have been completed .
Finally , it appeared that the new locality we had chosen for our work offered fair prospects of success .
The shaft already sunk to a depth of 11 feet was then timbered with Pandanus logs , and arrangements made for carrying down a hole by jumping with a 6-inch chisel .
Ails spoke of getting as far as 50 feet by this means , and then lining the hole with 6-inch tubes , but after sinking 4 feet he declared it impossible to proceed further in this way , the chisel could not be made to continue sinking in a straight line , the labour was too exhausting , and progress very slow .
It was decided , therefore , to begin boring , Ails being very hopeful , as the hole " stood " well .
On Thursday , June 25 , we accordingly made arrangements to shift our boring gear to the new site , and by Saturday , June 27 , this work was completed , chiefly by native labour , and at a cost of about \#163 ; 10 .
The boilers were rolled along the beach , the rest of the machinery taken by water , and all subsequently dragged , rolled , or carried across the portage .
Lieutenant Waugh lent us valuable assistance , during the absence of the " Penguin , " in this work .
Boring was commenced on Friday , July 3 , and by 5 o clock wre had sunk another 4 feet ; progress then became rapid , and on Saturday evening , when work was knocked off , we had descended in all 46 feet .
Very little " core " was obtained , however , and at times the boring bit met with very little opposition as it advanced , seemingly passing through a vacant space .
Since the water pumped into the hole no longer flowed out above , but found its way out by some communication with the sea below , it was impossible to determine whether or not some sand might have been present .
It was clear , however , that the coral rock through wThich the u bit advanced was highly cavernous .
, On Monday the hole became filled with fallen fragments and some sand , it was evident , therefore , that the sides would not hold , and so recourse was had to lining ; by Thursday , July 9 , the hole had been reamed and lined down to 45 feet , and the work of boring was resumed .
On pumping , we had the satisfaction of seeing the watei flowing out of the top of the hole , but our joy wras short-lived , for , on Monday , June 13 , the water was again lost .
On Tuesday , July 14 , we had reached 65 feet , passing for the last 20 feet through sand and coial .
Subsequently we attained a depth of 72 feet , and could then proceed to investigate the Structure of a Coral Reef Boring .
507 no further .
We worked all Thursday and Friday with the sand pump , but with no success ; the bottom of the hole was surrounded by quicksand containing boulders of coral , and as fast as the sand was got out , so fast it flowed in and faster .
The water pumped down^disappeared through the sand , boring and a. fortiori reaming was impossible , and the tubes could not be driven owing to the interspersed boulders .
Had the tubes been provided with steel driving ends we might have forced them down ; as it was , the effect of driving them was simply to curl in the lower end .
Had we been provided with 4-inch tubes we could have made a fresh start , and might have descended another 30 or 40 feet , but even then ultimate success would not have been ensured , for the chance of meeting again and again with intermixed sand and coral remained always open , and every such encounter would have required lining tubes of diminished calibre .
Baffled in all our endeavours , and no other part of the island offering more hopeful prospects of success , we had no alternative but to abandon the undertaking , and on July 30 we were taken from the island in the " Penguin , " and returned to Fiji .
On landing there we had the mortification to learn that additional apparatus was then on the way to Funafuti , our friends in Sydney having with great generosity at once despatched machinery for driving in sand on receipt of a letter I had sent informing them of the failure of our first borehole .
We had had no reason to expect such spontaneous assistance , and even had we been fortunate enough to have remained on the island till the machinery arrived , we should probably not have accomplished the object we had in view , though we might possibly have carried the borehole down to a depth of about 400 feet .
A very free communication must have existed between the borehole and the sea , for whenever a big roller broke upon the reef the rods lifted , and after the lining had been withdrawn , water spurted out of the borehole with the fall of every wave .
The open nature of the reef is further indicated by the fact that the sea water rises with every tide to fill certain depressions , which occur in many places in the middle of the island ; as the tide ebbs this water flows away down fissures , often so rapidly as to form little whirlpools .
Wherever I have seen the reef growing it has always presented itself as clumps or islets of coral and other organisms with interspersed patches of sand , and the borings would seem to indicate that it maintains this character for a very considerable depth and possibly throughout .
The structure of the reef appears indeed to be that of a coarse " sponge " of coral with wide interstices , which may be either empty or filled with sand .
As regards the nature of this " sand , " it is important to observe that it does not consist of coral debris ; this material and fragments 508 Prof. W. J. Sollas .
Report to the Committee appointed of shells forming but an insignificant part of it ; calcareous algce are more abmidant , but its chief constituents are large foraminiferar which seem to belong chiefly to two genera and Tinoporus). .
It covers a considerable area of the islands , and has accumulated during the memory of the inhabitants to such an extent as to silt up certain parts of the lagoon .
This and the abundant growth of corals and calcareous algse , such as Halimeda , lead to the belief that the lagoon is slowly filling up .
A suggestion has recently been made that more light is likely to be thrown on the history of atolls by a study of ancient limestones in the British Isles than by boring in existing reefs .
The first essential , however , for such a study would appear to be a knowledge of the structure of living atolls , for , without this , the identification of others forming a part of the earth 's crust , might remain more or less-a matter for conjecture .
So far as the structure of Funafuti has been proved by borings , it is scarcely what a field geologist might have anticipate/ !
, and if deposits of a similar nature and origin should have been encountered in , say , the mountain limestone , it is-doubtful whether , previous to the borings in Funafuti , their interpretation would have been easily reached .
While the boring has proved a failure , the other objects of the expedition have been attained with complete success .
Messrs. Hedley and Gardiner have made a thorough investigation of the fauna and flora , both land and marine .
Dr. Collingwood has obtained a good deal of information of ethnological interest , and we all have brought home a fairly complete collection of native implements and manufactures .
A daily record was kept of maximum and minimum temperature , and of the readings of the dry and wet bulb thermometers .
The most important contribution , however , and one that I think must , in certain details , greatly modify our views as to the nature of coral reefs , is afforded by the investigations of Captain Field .
Never before have soundings , both within and without an atoll , been so closely and systematically made , and the results seem to me commensurate with the care and pains that have been taken to secure them .
Four series of soundings , " Sections " as they are termed on board the " Penguin , " have been run from the seaward face of the reef outwards .
How close together the soundings wei'e made is shown in the following table which Captain Field has kindly permitted me to copy from his order book \#151 ; Depth 0\#151 ; 40 fathoms every 40\#151 ; 70 55 9* 70\#151 ; 100 5 5 100\#151 ; 150 V 150\#151 ; 200 1 ) 10 yards .
20 " 30 " 40 " to investigate the Structure of a Coral Reef Boring .
509 Depth 200\#151 ; 300 fathoms every 60 yards .
" 300\#151 ; 400 " 400\#151 ; 500 " 500\#151 ; 600 600\#151 ; 700 " 700\#151 ; 800 11 70 " 80 . .
11 1 1 b0 " 100 " 9 ?
200 " The profiles obtained by the four series are closely similar , and , as regards one important feature , almost identical .
This is the sudden change in slope that occurs at or about 140 fathoms .
Speaking generally , one may describe Funafuti as the summit of a submerged .conical mountain , the base of which , at a depth of 2,000 fathoms , is a regular ellipse , 30 miles long by 28 miles broad .
It rises with a very gentle slope , which gradually grows steeper as it ascends , till from 400 to 140 fathoms it has an angle of 30 ' ; at 140 fathoms an Section D. Two profiles of the ocean face of Funafuti .
Yertical and horizontal scales identical .
Figures on the vertical co-ordinate refer to fathoms , on the horizontal to yards .
The curve on the left is supposed to commence 200 yards to the left of the zero point .
abrupt change occurs , and the slope becomes precipitous , making an angle of from 75 ' to 80 ' for the greater part of its course , till it passes into the shallow flats of the growing reef .
It is difficult to resist the impression that it is the upper 140 fathoms ( 840 feet ) which represents the true coral reef .
A convex curvature of the profile between 166 and 261 fathoms is probably a talus , produced by an accumulation of coral debris .
510 Prof. W. J. Sollas .
Report to the Committee appointed The conical mountain below the 140 fathoms line , with its parabolic slope , is suggestively similar to a volcano ; but , if so , its crater must have been immense , 10 miles across at least .
A volcano , 12,000 feet in height , with a crater 10 miles in diameter , is , however , not an unknown phenomenon ; within the limits of the Pacific we may cite Haleakala , in Maui , Sandwich Islands , as closely comparable .
A part of my work while on the island was the construction of a geological sketch map , part of which is shown below ; its interest chiefly centres in a broad expanse near the Mission Station , where the two narrow limbs of the island meet , or , if it be preferred , whence Corner of Funafuti , showing Mangrove Swamp and Heliopora Reef . .
O ; o oJ\gt ; O A. A.B.C. Mangrove stramp .
ft*** Me/ iopora reef .
-\#151 ; \#151 ; .Consolidated coral breccia forming part of ^ Y ... 1 rtf th# Sand .
o o.\#169 ; | C/ in/ eer of ooo I coral fragments .
to investigate the Structure of a Coral Reef Boring .
oil they extend .
Towards the seaward side this broad corner is occupied by a mangrove swamp , the floor of which is formed by a dead coral reef , constituted almost wholly of two species , one a massive Porites , and the other Heliopora ccerulea .
For a great ] part of the day this floor lies bare and dry , the frayed ends of the Heliopora standing like broken reeds , 6 inches above its surface , and the great clumps of Porites forming a series of stepping stones of equal height .
Neither of these corals stands long exposure to the air ; on Funafuti they require constant submergence , and we are thus led to regard their upper surface as marking Avhat was at one time the level of low tide in the swamp ; but since the present level of low tide is below the level thus indicated , some change must have occurred in the level of low tides .
Not necessarily an elevation of the reef : Darwin has admirably discussed this explanation , and it is quite conceivable that some change in local conditions , such as the exclusion of the sea by the growth of the hurricane beach , may have produced a local alteration in the height of the tides .
The swamp communicates with the sea by pits in its floor , which enter subterranean channels running sea-wax*ds .
These passages are so narrow that the tide rises and falls in the swamp much more slowly than in the open sea .
To determine whether any change of level has taken place , it thus becomes necessary to compare the highest and lowest water level of the swamp with that of the sea or of the lagoon .
I accordingly levelled across the island from the lagoon to the sea , crossing the swamp on the way , and found that the high-water level at spring tides is 1 foot 10 inches below high water ( spring tides ) of the lagoon , so that given free access of the sea , the Heliopora reef would be covered 1 foot 10 inches deeper than at present , but it is now submerged from 10 inches to 2 feet 2 inches at high-water springs , and would accordingly be submerged from 2 feet 8 inches to 4 feet , with free access of the sea , The range of spring tides is at least 6 feet , as I learn from Lieutenant Dawson , but I am not quite sure that an extreme range of 9 feet 8 inches has not been observed .
Taking , however , the smaller number , it becomes clear that for a considerable part of the day , the reef would be exposed to the air .
It is not likely that under these conditions the corals would continue to live , and I think , therefore , that the reef must have undergone some slight elevation , to the amount , perhaps , of 4 feet .
This conclusion is in accordance with Dana 's view , and is supported by observations on some other features of the island , such , for example , as the occurrence of an interrupted line of low cliffs , sometimes passing into a series of pinnacles , generally about 4 feetiu height , as measured from low water level .
In the annexed section the cliffs are farther from the land than is usually the case .
These cliffs consist of a consolidated breccia of coral fragments , and are now in process of denudaTHROUGH THE OF 512 Prof. W. J. Sollas .
Report to Coral Reef Committee .
\#163 ; I * g $ :v i \#163 ; \#166 ; s \lt ; 6 I J. \ * .| .aj tion , as is the coral platform which extends from them , up to and under the hurricane beach .
This breccia was probably formed and cemented together when the reef stood at least 4 feet lower than at present , and was produced by the breakers driving fragments of corals from the seaward edge of the reef into the lagoon , as they are now doing over the isthmuses , submerged at high tide , which connect the several islets of the atoll together .
If it should prove true , as I do not donbt , that one of the latest episodes in the history of the reef has been an elevation of , say , 4 feet , then in the immediately antecedent stage , the reef must have been awash , or , perhaps , wholly submerged , and the present terrestrial fauna and flora must have reached it subsequent to its elevation , as sea drift , or have been introduced by human agency .
In conclusion , I would add that to myself the soundings obtained by Captain Field appear to support Darwin 's theory of coral atolls ; there remains , however , one very important branch of the subject which stands in need of renewed investigation , and this is the bathymetrical limit to coral life .
Not till I had obtained a close acquaintance with the difficulties of dredging on the steep sides of an atoll did I recognise on how frail a basis our accepted conclusions rest .
It is a task difficult enough to get up corals from the lagoon in comparatively shallow water ; from the sides of the reef it is well nigh impossible .
To obtain dead corals from great depths proves little ; living corals are generally found with dead associates , and the latter are the more readily detached and brought to the surface .
The weight of the evidence we already possess is admittedly in favour of a comparatively shallow bathymetrical limit , but much remains to be done before we can speak of any limit as definitely ascertained .

