1904 .
] On the Action of Radium on Micro-organisms .
375 itoxines of the affection from which the organism is suffering .
In other words , normal temperature is preserved by a mutual see-saw action of these centres\#151 ; the thermogenetic and the thermolytic .
We recognise fully that , for a more perfect understanding of death temperatures , it is necessary for the observers to examine the patients for themselves , and not to trust to records , however many or accurate they may be , so that they can note in each case the changes in the skin , the circulation , the respirations , etc. , concurring with the variations of the bodily temperature .
Nevertheless , we venture to put forward our investigation and views , not as physiologists , but as clinical observers , with the hope of pointing out new lines of research , by which may be increased the knowledge of the regulation of animal heat .
\#171 ; a jjote on the Action of Radium on Micro-organisms " By Alan B. Green , M.A. , M.D. ( Cantab .
) .
Communicated by Sir Michael Foster , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 11 , Read May 5 , 1904 .
[ Plate 11 .
] The radium 'salt used in these experiments was 1 centigramme of radium bromide , bought of Messrs. Buchler and Co. , of Brunswick , in June , 1903 .
It was contained in a vulcanite and brass capsule , fronted with thin talc .
The radium was enclosed immediately behind the talc , and the circular area over which it was spread was about 3 mm. in diameter .
The radium emanations which were applied to micro-organisms were such as passed through the talc , the ( 3 and y rays .
Dr. E. F. Bashford , to whose kindness I am greatly indebted for the use of the radium , has informed me that Sir William Ramsay tested the preparation for the intensity of its combined f3 and y lays , the latter being a practically negligible quantity .
The results showed that , on comparison with samples of radium bromide giving a virtually pure spectrum of radium , these rays were practically 100 per cent. This radium salt was , in fact , a pure preparation of radium bromide .
Dr. Bashford also informs me that this radium bromide caused pigment to disappear after 18 days from a mole with 15 minutes ' exposure , the talc being in contact with the surface of the mole , hive minutes such exposure produced a marked skin reaction , while 20 minutes exposure caused a reaction proceeding almost to ulceration .
I found that the radium was itself luminous , and that it could Dr. A. B. Green .
[ Apr. 11 , illuminate a screen of zinc sulphide through a sheet of lead over 1 em thick .
It discharged a gold leaf electroscope , highly charged with + or - electricity , at a distance of over 6 feet .
It caused a brown colouration of glass or talc when applied at a distance of 1 mm. for 12\#151 ; 24 hours .
The experiments which have been made are of two kinds .
In the first set investigation was made of the germicidal action of radium emanations , and in the second , endeavours were made to ascertain whether micro-organisms exposed to the emanations became thereby themselves radio-active .
I.\#151 ; The Germicidal Action of Radium Emanations .
The following have been subjected to the emanations of radium ( a ) Calf vaccine , together with its contained extraneous bacteria , which in these experiments consisted of pyogenes S. pyogenes albus , S. cereus flams , S. cereus albus .
Both freshly collected and stored calf-vaccine pulp were exposed to radium emanations in the following way :\#151 ; A layer of pulp not exceeding 0-5 mm. in thickness was spread in the centre of the depression of a hollow-ground glass slide , around the circumference of which depression a metal ring had been cemented .
The capsule containing the radium bromide was placed upon the metal ring in such a way that the salt was brought within 1\#151 ; 2 mm. of the lymph pulp , nothing separating them but the talc of the capsule and the intervening air .
The pulp was thus used in the thinnest practicable layer , in order that the emanations might act as uniformly as possible on all the component parts .
The vitality of the vaccine and of its extraneous bacteria was tested before , and at varying intervals of time after the exposure to radium ; the former by inoculations on calves , the latter by cultivations on nutrient media .
For each such test a small portion of vaccine was removed from the preparation and was mixed with enough sterile water to form a semi-fluid emulsion .
A loopful of emulsion was used to inoculate a liquefied tube of nutrient agar-agar , and a plate was established in the usual way .
The remainder of the emulsion was used for inoculating a calf .
( b ) The following species of micro-organisms have also been separately subjected to the action of radium:\#151 ; pyogenes S. pyogenes albus , S. cereus flavus , S. cereus albus , Streptococcus pyogenes , B. prodigiosus , B. proteus vulgaris , B. pyocyaneus , B. typhosus , B. coli communis , B. mallei , B. pestis , B. tuberculosis , the bacillus of Malta fever , Spirillum cholerce Asiaticce , and sporing cultures of B. mesentericus vulgatus , B. mesentericus ruber , B. subtilis , B. anthracis , B. tetani , Gartner 's bacillus , the bacillus of malignant oedema , and the bacillus of Eauschbrand .
1904 .
] On the Action of Radium on Micro-organisms .
In the case of these micro-organisms , growth was removed from solid media and was exposed to the radium emanations as a film in the depression of a hollow-ground slide , the radium being applied as in the case of vaccine .
The vitality of these micro-organisms was tested both before and after exposure to radium by cultivations on media by a similar method to that used in the case of vaccine .
In some instances metal rings were placed round colonies of bacteria in situ on the surface of nutrient medium , and exposure of bacteria under these conditions made by placing the capsule containing the radium on the rings .
In the case of each experiment with vaccine and with microorganisms in pure culture , a control was carried out by making a similar preparation and subjecting it to similar conditions as the experimental preparation with the exception of exposure to radium ; it was also subjected to tests for vitality similar to those used foi the experimental preparation , at corresponding intervals of time .
All experiments and their controls were made at room tempeiature .
The exposure of micro-organisms in liquid media to radium was found unsatisfactory owing to the presence of material of a complex nature between the radium and the micro-organisms , and owing also to the constant variation in the distance between the radium and the micro-organisms suspended in the liquid .
It was found from the foregoing experiments and their conti ols that a marked germicidal action was exerted on the specific and extianeous micro-organisms of vaccine and on the other above-mentioned microorganisms as a result of their exposure to the radium at a distance of 1\#151 ; 2 mm , for varying lengths of time .
The following is a summary of the results of these experiments and their controls :\#151 ; Results of Experiments Vi The specific germ in no case survived a longer exposure to radium than 22 hours , at the end of which time it had completely lost its ability to cause vesiculation or any visible irritation at the site of inoculation on a calf .
In seventeen out of a total of twenty-five experiments its potency was destroyed after 10 hours ' exposure to radium and in four cases after 2 hours .
The controls remained fully potent after the experimental vaccines had been rendered ineit .
The extraneous micro-organisms of these vaccines , as has been previously mentioned , consisted of S. pyogenes aureus , pyogenes S. cereus flavus , S. cereus aibus .
In each experiment these bacteria were destroyed after exposure to radium in rather less time than was the potency of the specific germ .
In no case did they survive a longei exposure to radium than 15 hours .
The extraneous micro-organisms of the control vaccines were alive Dr. A. B. Green .
[ Apr- 11 , after those of the experimental vaccines had been killed .
The following experiment may be related to explain in greater detail this action of radium .
Experiment .
On November 12 , 1903 , vaccine pulp was exposed to radium at 10 a.m. Portions of this pulp were removed from the influence of the radium at the end of 2 , 6 , and 10 hours ' exposure .
Liquefied nutrient agar-agar tubes were inoculated with one platinum loopful of each portion immediately , after its removal from the radium , and plates were established in the usual way .
The remainder of each portion was inoculated on a calf on the following day , November 13 .
Control .
Plates were similarly established from the control at 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. on November 12 , and the remainder of the vaccine was used for inoculating the calf on the following day , November 13 .
On November 18 , the experimental portion of vaccine exposed to radium for 2 hours had caused good vesiculation on the calf ; the portion exposed for 6 hours caused very poor vesiculation , and the remaining portion exposed for 10 hours caused no trace of vesiculation .
The number of extraneous bacteria originally present in the vaccine were 1200 per platinum loopful of emulsion ( the mixture of this emulsion has been previously described ) .
In the portion of vaccine exposed to radium for 2 hours the number left alive was 1050 per platinum loopful ; in the portion exposed for 6 hours there were fifty bacteria , and in the portion exposed for 10 hours there was no evidence of living bacteria at all .
On November 18 the control portion of the vaccine had caused good vesiculation ; and the agar-agar plate poured at 8 p.m. on November 12 contained practically the same number of colonies of extraneous bacteria as were present in the plate poured from the same vaccine at 10 a.m. on the same date .
Results of Experiment with Non-sporebearing Bacteria .
All the non-sporebearing bacteria previously mentioned were killed after exposure to radium for 2\#151 ; 14 hours .
A description in detail of the results of some of these experiments may be of use in illustrating this germicidal action .
One of a Series of Experiments with S. pyogenes aureus .
Before exposure to radium , plate cultivations showed 84,000 bacteria present per platinum loopful of emulsion .
After exposure to radium for 6 hours , this number had decreased to 31,000 ; at the end of 10 hours ' exposure to 260 , and at the end of 14 hours ' exposure no bacteria were left alive .
At the end of 14 hours the control preparation showed bacteria alive in practically undiminisbed numbers .
One of a Series of Experiments ivith B. coli communis .
Before exposure to radium , 75,000 bacteria were present per platinum loopful of emulsion .
After 3 hours ' exposure this number was reduced to 3000 , and after 6 hours ' exposure all the bacteria were killed .
1904 ] On the Action of Radium on Micro-organisms .
The control at this time showed practically the same number of bacteria as were present originally .
One of a Series of Experiments with Spirillum cholera ?
Asiatic\#174 ; .
Before exposure to radium , 47,000 bacteria were present in a platinum loopful of emulsion .
After 3 hours ' exposure to radium , 2100 were left alive per platinum loopful , while no bacteria survived an exposure of 6 hours .
The control preparation showed at this time practically no decrease in the number of bacteria originally present .
Results of Experiments with Bacteria containing Spoies .
Bacteria containing spores were by far the most resistant to the germicidal action of radium of any micro-organisms used in these experiments , for they were not killed by less than 72 hours ' exposure This corresponds with the time given by R. Pfeiffer and E. Fnedberger as necessary for the killing of spores by the emanations of the radium used by them . . . .
The following are examples of experiments with these microorganisms :\#151 ; One of a Series of Experiments with B. mesentericus vulgatus ( Sporing ) .
Immediately before exposure to radium the preparation showed 170,000 micro , organisms per platinum loopful of emulsion .
After 48 hours exposure this number had decreased to 260 , and at the end of 72 hours all micro-organisms pel platinum loopful had been killed .
, .
The control preparation showed practically no decrease in the number of micro-organisms at the end of 72 hours .
One of a Series of Experiments with B. antliracis ( There were originally present 11,000 micro-organisms per platinum loopfuh After 48 hours ' exposure to radium , 120 only were left alive , and at the end of 72 hours all micro-organisms per platinum loopful were killed .
, The control showed micro-organisms present in undimmislie num ers a end of 72 hours .
One of a Series of Experiments with B. tetani ( In the experiments with tetanus spores the actual numbers of were not investigated , hut only the presence or absence of living germs y cultivations in the depth , of sugar agar .
# . .
* wn " After 48 hours ' exposure to radium , the presence of living micro-org still evidenced , hut after 72 hours ' exposure no growth followed the inoculation o a sugar agar tube .
Thus in these experiments the non-sporebearing bacteria exhibited the least resistance to the germicidal action of radium emanations , withstanding exposure for 2\#151 ; 15 hours only . .
The resistance of the specific germ of vaccine was slightly m excess * 'Berl .
Klin .
Woch .
, ' July 13 , 1903 .
Dr. A. B. Green .
[ Apr. 11 , of this ; while by far the greatest resistance was shown by spores these not being killed by less than 72 hours ' exposure .
Experiments have also been made from which the following points have been noted .
1 .
As the distance between the radium and the micro-organisms subjected to its emanations was increased , the germicidal action which was marked at the nearest distance became less evident and finally ceased to be exerted .
In these experiments Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus was used , a separate strain being used for each series of experiments .
Portions of growth were subjected to the radium emanations for the same time and under the same , conditions , except that the distance between the radium and the bacteria was varied .
After 30 hours ' exposure it was found that\#151 ; At 1 mm. bacteria were killed .
At 1 cm .
bacteria were usually lessened in numbers , but all were not killed .
At 10 cm .
no definite germicidal action was apparent .
The following is an example :\#151 ; Experiment .
Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus exposed to radium emanations for 30 hours at different distances .
Number of bacteria present per Number of bacteria platinum loopful of emulsion after Series .
originally present per 30 hours ' exposure to radium .
platinum loopful of emulsion .
At 1 mm. At 1 cm .
-At 10 cm .
i(\#171 ; ) 1060 0 i(G 1700 , , 160 i(0 1200 . . . .
987 2 .
As extra thicknesses of mica or glass were interposed between the radium and the micro-organisms exposed to their influence , the time of germicidal action was delayed .
Finely woven copper gauze also caused slight delay of germicidal action .
A sheet of lead 0'1 mm. thick , placed between the radium and the micro-organisms , caused weakening of germicidal action , and as extra thicknesses of lead were interposed and the / 3-rays were cut off , germicidal action became less and less evident .
II.\#151 ; Induced Radio-Activity of Bacteria .
It has been found that after exposure at a distance of 1 mm. to the radium emanations for 24\#151 ; 120 hours , micro-organisms themselves may A. B. Green .
/ % .
aSW .
Procvol 73 , Plate 11 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Photograph of a mass of i ? .
mesentericus vulgatus ( sporing ) , made radioactive by exposure to radium bromide for 72 hours and killed by the exposure .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Photograph , taken through a double layer of lead-foil , of a mass of JB .
mesentericus vulgatus ( sporing ) , made radio-active by exposure to radium bromide for 72 hours and killed by the exposure .
1904 .
] On the Action of Radium on Micro-organisms .
show signs of radio-activity .
It has not yet been ascertained whether living micro-organisms can exhibit induced radio-activity , but microorganisms which have been killed by exposure to the radium emanations can do so . .
In these experiments no radio-activity has been found in bacteria not exposed to the action of radium .
Induced radio-activity of micro-organisms has been shown in the following manner :\#151 ; A small mass of bacteria , removed from the suiface of nutrient medium , after subjection to the radium emanations at a distance of 1 mm. , for , as a rule , 72 hours , was removed from the depression of the hollow-ground glass slide in which it had been exposed to the emanations , and was placed between two thin sheets of glass , generally coverslips , which were not themselves radio-active .
These sheets of glass , with the small mass of bacteria pressed between them , were next , in a dark room , brought into contact with the film of an Ilford " special rapid " photographic plate .
A cotton-wool pad was placed on the glass sheets to keep them in position , and the whole was wrapped up in a light-proof package .
Twenty-four hours later the photographic plate was developed and a photograph was obtained of the bacterial mass .
An image has been developed after only 1 hour 's exposure of a sensitised plate to the radio-active bacteria , and in some instances after a fortnight 's exposure .
Faint images have been thus produced on sensitised plates by S. p. aureus and albuswhich had been subjected to radium emanations , but , so far , the best photographs have been obtained from bacterial masses containing a number of spores , after their subjection to the emanations for 24\#151 ; 120 hours ( Plate 11 , fig. 1 ) .
Radio-active micro-organisms have continued to give oft photo-actinic emanations after 3 months have elapsed since their exposure to radium .
Photographs of masses of micro-organisms , possessing induced radioactivity , have been obtained , through a double layer of le\lt ; td foil ( I late 11 , fig. 2 ) .
A sheet of lead 3 mm. in thickness interposed between a radio-active bacterial mass and the sensitised plate has prevented the passage of photo-actinic emanations from the glass to the plate .
These photographs would seem , therefore , to be caused by / \gt ; rays emitted by the micro-organisms .
My best thanks are due to Mr. Power , Medical Officer of the Local Government Board , for the facilities he has afforded me in the research , and for the kind and valuable advice he has gi'ven me ; concerning it .

