February 22 , 1844 .
SIR J. W. LUBBOCK , Bart. , V.P. , in the Chair .
" On the Temperature of the Springs , Wells and Rivers of India and Egypt , and of the Sea and Table Lands within the Tropics ; with a few Remarks on M. Boussingault 's mode of ascertaining the mean temperature of Equinoctial Regions .
" By Lieut. Newbold , of the Madras Army , F.R.S. The author adverts to the deficiency of information which has hitherto existed as to the temperature and chemical composition of the springs and rivers both of India and of Egypt ; and also as to their geographical and geological relations .
He gives , in the present paper , the details of a great number of observations which he has made on these subjects , and which he thinks may prove a useful contribution to Indian hydrography , as well as afford more exact data for philosophical inquiry .
The observations extend , at irregular intervals , from Alexandria to Malacca , or from 31ยง 131 of northern latitude to within 20 14 ' of the Equator , and between the meridians of 27 ?
and 103 ?
of east longitude .
In the columns of the register , the date of the observation , the latitude , longitude , approximate height above the sea , nature of the surrounding geological formation , depth to the surface of the water , depth of the water itself , temperature of the air , and approximate annual mean of the climate in which the wells , &amp;c. occur , are , as far as practicable , specified .
A column of remarks is added , containing observations on the chemical nature of the water , and on the size of the wells and springs , and the result obtained by other observers .
It was found , in general , that in low latitudes the temperature of the deepest wells and springs is a little higher than the mean temperature of the air ; although there occur a few exceptions , especially in the neighbourhood of a high range of hills , whence there probably arise cold springs , having their source at an elevation considerably above that of the plain where the water makes its appearance .
Springs which are strongly saline and sulphureous , have , on the average , a higher temperature than those of pure water .
Both saline and cold springs are found occurring within a few feet from thermal and freshwater springs : a fact which the author is disposed to ascribe to their rising through different seams of the subjacent strata , often much inclined ; and to the different depths and heights , above and below the crust of the earth , from which the supply of water is derived .
Wells , and particularly those having a small surface , which are much used for purposes of irrigation , thereby acquire an artificial increase of temperature .
The temrperature of shallow exposed wells , springs and rivers , especially those which have sandy beds , is subject to diurnal fluctuation from the more powerful influence of the atmosphere : and the surface water of deep wells partakes of these vicissitudes to a depth varying according to the transparency of the water , the extent of surface , degree of exposure and clearness of the sky .
In muddy water , the surface is heated to a greater extent ; but at the depth of a foot or two , it is less affected by the heat of the solar rays than clear water .
With regard to Boussingault 's proposal of an expeditious mode of ascertaining the approximate mean temperature of equinoctial regions , which consists in sinking a thermometer in the soil , perforated to the depth of about a foot beneath the surface , in a situation sheltered from the direct rays of the sun , from nocturnal radiation , and from the infiltration of water , the author found that the application of this method gave the following results , namely , that the soil at the depth of a foot is subject to an annual , and , in light soils , to a diurnal variation , regulated in its amount by the relative intensity of the solar rays , and the quantity of radiation , depending , of course , on the state of the atmosphere , and the degree of shelter afforded to the surface .

