178 Prominence and Coronal Structure .
By William J. S. Lockyer , M.A. , Pli .
D. , F.R.A.S. , Chief Assistant , Solar Physics Observatory , South Kensington .
{ Communicated by Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , LL. D. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Director of the Solar Physics Observatory .
Received December 2 , 1907 , \#151 ; Read January 16 , 1908 .
) [ Plate 3 .
] The routine work with the spectroheliograph of the Solar Physics Observatory since the year 1904 has been to secure daily , if possible , not only photographs of the sun 's disc in the " K " light of calcium , but also of the prominences round the limb at the same wave-length .
To obtain the limb photographs , much longer times of exposure are necessary , so that , in consequence of unfavourable weather conditions , the number obtained is not so great as that in the case of discs .
Many and varied have been the shapes of the prominences recorded , and occasionally some have indicated a pronounced " arched " or " partially ^arched " form , as shown in a few examples here brought together in Plate 3 , figs. 1 to 6 .
All the photographs on this plate , including figs. 7 and 8 , are on the same scale , and I am indebted to Mr. J. P. Wilkie , the photographer to this observatory , for enlarging them .
It was not , however , until July 17 of the present year that a photograph was obtained which presented a magnificent series of " arches , " " envelopes , " or " half rings , " as they may be termed .
This photograph was secured by Mr. W. Moss , computer in the observatory .
The disturbed area was situated near the south pole of the sun in the eastern quadrant , and two exposures were successfully made , the first at 3 h. 14 m. P.M. , G.M.T. , and the second at 3 h. 50 m. P.M. , G.M.T. These photographs are reproduced in Plate 3 , figs. 7 and 8 , and both have been enlarged twice from the original negatives .
The parallel lighter streaks in each of the reproductions are due to changes in the clearness of the sky as the original photographs were being secured ; they have , therefore , no connection with the prominence images recorded .
In the first photograph ( Plate 3 , fig. 7 ) the arches are clearly visible and complete , but in the second ( Plate 3 , fig. 8 ) they are less visible and partially broken up , in spite of the fact that the second photograph had the better exposure .
How long the arches had been in existence previous to the time of securing the first record it is , of course , impossible to say , Prominence and Coronal Structure .
but the second photograph clearly shows that a striking alteration had taken place .
A close examination and measurement of the first photograph gives the following results , and the accompanying sketch ( fig. 1 ) is here presented .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Diagram to illustrate the more coospienous features photographed at 3 h. 14 m. , July 17 , 1907 ( see Plate 3 , fig. 7 ) .
This sketch has been made by enlarging the original and painting the markings in Chinese white to render them more apparent , as the fainter details may possibly be lost in the reproduction in Plate 3 , fig. 7 .
The most conspicuous feature of the whole of this disturbed region of the sun is the series of three concentric arches numbered 1 , 2 , and 3 .
Their concentric nature seems to suggest that they were produced at one point of initial disturbance , and then moved radially outwards .
The distance between the extremities of number 1 is l'*2 ; number 2 , 3'*6 ; and of number 3 , 5'*8 .
Their heights from the chromosphere are about l'*5 , 2'-9 , and 3''6 respectively .
It will be noticed that the intensity of the arches along their lengths is not uniform ; thus , Arch 3 has five points of increased intensity , while Arch 2 has three such maximum points .
The mean width of the matter composing the arches is about 0'*3 to 0'*4 .
On the eastern side of these arches there is another distinct semi-oval , numbered 4 in the sketch .
This intersects arches numbers 3 and 2 , and at the point of crossing 3 a more intense patch is indicated .
This arch is much flatter than those previously mentioned , and measures 6'*6 between the extremities on the chromosphere , and has a height of 2'*2 .
The eastern base of arch number 3 falls nearly midway between the bases of Arch 4 .
Turning to the southern side of Arch 3 , there will be found two projections of different intensity , marked 7 and 8 , which seem with little doubt to be N 2 180 Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer .
[ Dec. 2 , associated with this system of envelopes ; their curvature indicates this very strongly .
These projections may have formed the stump or , perhaps , a remnant of another large arch , which possibly was concentric with the envelopes 2 and 3 , but which was too faint to show on the photograph , or had already , perhaps , disappeared .
Two small filaments are indicated at positions marked 9 and 10 .
The enormous extent of this disturbance on the solar limb , taken as a whole , may be gathered from the facts that the extreme photographed portions of it were separated by a distance of 12'*7 , while the highest part was 3'*6 .
Converting these into miles , it is found that its breadth extended over about 353,000 miles , or more than three-quarters of the solar radius , and its height reached about 101,600 miles .
Attention may be drawn here to the fact that there is apparently no large prominence underlying these envelopes which may have given rise to them .
Whether there be one just on the near or far side of the limb at this position angle cannot be stated , but no trace of any portion can be seen in the original negative .
Examining now the photograph taken at 3 h. 50 m. p.m. ( Plate 3 , fig. 8 ) , it will be seen that considerable changes have occurred .
Arch number 3 is in evidence by broken portions only , and may not show in the reproduction , and these correspond approximately with those of greater intensity in the sketch ( fig. 1 ) .
All these portions seem to have risen from the chromosphere , as measurements show that the uppermost part is 4'*4 instead of 3''6 .
Arches numbers 2 and 1 are difficult to trace , but remnants of them go to make up the spiral or hook-like form in their positions .
The upper portion of this is about 3'*7 , which is again further from the chromosphere than it was before ( 2'*9 ) .
The small prominence numbered 5 is still apparent , but in this photograph it has no longer arch number 4 over it , but only a portion of it .
The prominence at 6 is broader , but less definite .
The prominences 7 and 8 are still about the same , but somewhat fainter , the filaments 9 and 10 have disappeared , and a small prominence close to the eastern side of 9 has become visible .
So far as I am aware this is the first time that such a series of concentric envelopes has been photographed with the spectroheliograph .
This indicates that either this form is a most uncommon feature of prominence material , or that the envelopes very seldom appear broadside-on on the limb , so as to display the arch system to the fullest advantage .
In looking up the literature of the visual observations of prominences made by means of the spectroscope , the only reference approaching to an account of prominences taking a ring shape is that given by Sir Norman 1907 .
] Prominence and Coronal Structure .
181 Lockyer in his volume on ' Solar Physics/ * There he narrates his observation of the behaviour of the F line , and he was led to conclude that the character of the prominence action he was watching could be expressed in these terms:\#151 ; " They were really in this case , as already stated , smoke rings thrown up by enormous circumsolar action/ ' In a later publication !
he suggested , in the following words , that the probable origin of such forms might be violent explosions :\#151 ; " . . .
this falling material is dissociated in its descent before or when it reaches the photosphere ; the particles which descend sparsely and gently will be vaporised gently , and those wdiich descend violently and in great masses will be exploded violently .
" Prior to 1901 no such envelope system , so far as can be found , had been photographed or even observed during eclipses .
In the eclipse of May 18 of that year , Professor Dyson secured some excellent photographs of the eclipsed sun from his observing station at Pulo Aoer Gavang , on the west coast of Sumatra .
In his description of these photographs , !
he called attention to the following feature :\#151 ; " A very remarkable arch in the corona round the large prominence at position angle 145 ' ( measuring N.E. S.W. ) .
Round this prominence three separate arches are shown , one inside the other , their radii being l/ #2 , 2''4 , and 3'*7 respectively .
They have the appearance of layers of cloud over an eruption .
" It is interesting to note that the radii here stated correspond very closely to the values of the heights of the arches measured on the spectroheliograph photograph , namely , l'*5 , 2'*9 , and 3'*6 , showing that the two phenomena are of about the same order of magnitude .
In the eclipse of 1905 , arches of a similar nature were recorded , as will be gathered from the following extracts :\#151 ; Thus the Astronomer Royal , who observed , at Sfax , Tunisia , stated:\#151 ; S " The inner corona in this eclipse seems to be in a state of turmoil ( all round the sun 's limb ) , corresponding to the sun-spot and prominence activity of the sun , oval rings and arched structures above the prominences being a special feature ... .
The very bright prominence on the east limb , extending over an arc of more than 30 ' , associated with oval rings and arches in the corona . . . .
" * ' Solar Physics,5 p. 403 , 1874 .
t ' The Chemistry of the Sun,5 p. 412 , 1887 .
X 1 Roy .
Soc. Proc,5 vol. 69 , No. 454 , p. 244 , 1902 . .
S 'Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 A , vol. 77 , p. 35 , 1906 .
182 Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer .
[ Dec. 2y Describing the photographs he obtained at Vinaroz , Spain , during the same eclipse , Father Cortie , S.J. , wrote* :\#151 ; " The lower corona in the neighbourhood of these groups of prominences is very much disturbed .
A series of interlacing rings or arches surmounts the group , their mean height being very nearly 3 ' .
The general appearance is that of rings seen more or less edgewise , intersected by dark spaces .
There are four such distinct bright edges , almost bright rays , from P.A. +75 ' to P.A. + 85 ' over the three first prominences of the group .
" At Souk-Ahras , in Algeria , the expedition from the Hamburg Observatory , under the direction of Professor R. Schorr , also secured a series of large-scale photographs of the corona at this eclipse .
Professor Schorr also photographed*)- these cloud-like envelopes , as will be gathered from the following extract:\#151 ; " The form of the inner corona over the prominence region on the east limb shows a specially interesting appearance .
Three to four oval ringshaped cloud-like envelopes are conspicuous , which are situated at a distance from 4 ' to 6 ' over the prominence and can be concluded to be distinctly connected with the eruption of the prominence .
This is the first instance to-my knowledge in which such an influence of a prominence on the form of the corona has been indicated .
" The above extracts demonstrate clearly the arch-like forms photographed and indicate the close association of these forms with the structure of the lower corona and with the proximity of prominences .
One of the most prominent features of the lower portions of some coronal streamers is that they are made up of groups of in-curving structure , or , as Ranyard termed them , " synclinal " groups .
It seems very probable , therefore , that we have in these " envelope " forms the origin of this particular structure .
Although the " envelopes " have been associated with both the corona and prominences in the extracts given above , no statement has been made as to whether they were composed of coronal or prominence material .
Such a differentiation is not easy to make by means of photographs taken with a coronagraph , because the images which fall on the sensitive plate are made up of integrated light .
The case is different with regard to photographs taken with objective prism cameras , because in these instruments a series of monochromatic images is recorded .
With the object of trying to find out whether these envelopes had been secured by the prismatic cameras in the eclipse of 1905 , I have closely examined the negatives which I obtained with a six-inch three-prism * 4 Roy .
Irish Acad. Trans. , ' vol. 33 , section A , part 1 , p. 20 .
t 4 Mitteilungen der Hamburger Sternwarte , ' No. 10 , Hamburg , 1905 , p. 29 .
1907 .
] Prominence and Coronal Structure .
183 prismatic camera at Palma , Majorca , where the Solar Physics Observatory 's Eclipse Expedition was stationed .
In the region about the large group of prominences in the north-east quadrant no trace of any images resembling envelopes could be found in either the " H " or " K " radiations of calcium .
A similar examination of the green coronal ring at \ 5303*7 , which in one of the photographs is quite strong all round the moon , fails also to show any indication of these envelopes .
Their absence may possibly be due either to the small intensity of the envelopes themselves or to the shortness of the time available for exposure .
The fact that " envelopes " similar in form to those described above have now been photographed in the " K " light of calcium by means of the spectroheliograph indicates that the material composing those recorded at the two eclipses contained calcium , like the prominences , as at any rate one constituent .
Fortunately , the spectrum of the corona has no line at the wave-length of " K , " so the evidence that the envelopes are composed of prominence matter is very strong .
It may be stated , in conclusion , that we have now another link in the chain of evidence to show the dependency of the form of the corona on prominence activity , and this strengthens the view I put forward in 1903 , * which was that the different forms of the corona seen and photographed during eclipses depended on prominence and not on sun-spot action .
Addendum , December 11 , 1907 .
Since the above paper was communicated to the Society , I find that an " arch " over a prominence was photographed during the eclipse of 1898 .
It was situated over the flame-like prominence in the south-east quadrant and was photographed at Sahdol , India , with the Thompson coronagraph by the Astronomer Eoyal , who has kindly notified me of the fact .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Plate 3 illustrates some prominences photographed at the Solar Physics Observatory .
Figs. 1\#151 ; 6 represent some u arched " or " partially arched 99 forms .
Figs. 7 and 8 show the system of u envelopes 99 recently recorded .
The following are the dates and times when each of the prominences were photographed :\#151 ; Fig. 1 . .
1905 , Sept. 8 , 12 h. 11 m. p.m. " 2 . .
1907 , July 15 , 10 30 A.M. " 3 .
1904 , July 14 , 12 9 P.M. J ?
4 , .
1904 , July 19 , 3 52 " 5 , .
1907 , July 17 , 3 14 " " 6 . .
1904 , Sept. 21 , 12 23 " " 7 . .
1907 , July 17 , 3 14 " " 8 . .
1907 , July 17 , 3 50 " * ' Monthly Notices RA .
S. , ' vol. 63 , No. 8 , p. 481 .

