122 Prof. T. E. Thorpe on [ June 15 , in direction A B due to A. The waves received at B are approximately plane and perpendicular to A B , so that the relation between the velocity and pressure at B is that proper to a plane wave ; but it is otherwise in the case of the sound received at A. Accordingly the reciprocal theorem does not lead us to expect an equality between the pressures at A and B , on which quantities the behaviour of the sensitive flames depends .
On the contrary , it would appear that the pressure at A corresponding to the given velocity along A B should be much greater than in the case of a plane wave , and then the relative advantage of the position A would be explained .
It will be seen that if the preceding arguments are correct , Prof. Tyndall 's experiment does not bear out the conclusions that he has based upon it with respect to the observations of the French Commission at Villejuif and Monthery ; No acoustic clouds could explain the failure of reciprocity then observed ; and the more probable hypothesis that the effect was due to wind is not inconsistent with the observation that the air ( at the surface ) was moving in the direction against which the sound was best heard .
Further experiments on this subject are very desirable .
VII .
" On Phosphorus Pentafluoride .
" By T. E. Thorpe , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Yorkshire College of Science .
Received June 6 , 1876 .
Arsenic trifluoride acts violently upon phosphorus pentachloride with the formation of arsenic trichloride and the liberation of a heavy fuming gas , which analysis shows to be phosphorus pentajluoride .
The production of the new gas may be represented by the equation 5 AsF8+3 PC15 = 5 AsC13 + 3PF5 .
Direct experiments have shown that the amount of arsenic trichloride actually produced in the reactions agrees closely with that demanded by this equation .
The accuracy of the formula was further controlled by determinations of the density of the gas .
Three experiments made by two independent methods gave the numbers\#151 ; I. ... ... 62-98 II 63-33 Ill 63-39 The number demanded by the formula PF5 is 63- ' , hydrogen being the unit .
1876 .
] Phosphorus Phosphorus penfcafluoride is a colourless gas : it is incombustible and extinguishes flame ; it is absolutely irrespirable even when largely diluted with air ; it fumes strongly in moist air , and is rapidly decomposed by water , forming hydrofluoric and phosphoric acids .
As it is nearly times heavier than air , it may be collected by downward displacement , and may be poured from vessel to vessel .
It may be preserved in glass vessels over dry mercury for some time without much alteration ; but its volume very gradually diminishes , and the glass after prolonged contact with the gas is found to be slightly corroded .
An attempt was made to liquefy the gas by compressing it in an Oersted 's apparatus as arranged to show the condensation of the more readily liquefiable gases .
Under a pressure of 12 atmospheres ( which was the highest pressure the apparatus would safely bear ) it showed no signs of change .
When compared with the same initial volume of air , no deviation from Boyle 's law was observed sufficiently marked to warrant the belief that the gas under this pressure was anywhere near its point of condensation .
Phosphorus pentafluoride experiences no apparent change on the passage of induction-sparks , either when pure or when mixed with oxygen or hydrogen .
The character of the light emitted during the discharge is under investigation ; the spectrum which it affords is exceedingly complicated .
Phosphorus pentafluoride combines immediately with ammonia-gas .
forming a white solid body of the composition 2PF5.5NH3 .
The gas is readily absorbed by an aqueous solution of ammonia , and the liquid on concentration yields a crystalline deposit consisting of a mixture of ammonium dihydrogen phosphate , NH4 H2 P04 , and acid ammonium fluoride , nii4f.hf .
\Y urtz has conclusively shown that phosphorus pentachloride can actually exist in the gaseous state under diminished pressure and between certain narrow limits of temperature .
On the other hand , the author has given reasons , derived from considerations of specific volume , for the supposition that phosphorus oxychloride , P0013 , and phosphorus thio-chloride , P^C13 ( bodies which are frequently adduced to show its peuta-dicity ) , are in reality derivatives of triad phosphorus* .
The existence of the gaseous pentafluoride , taken in conjunction witu the fact that it is perfectly stable , even at very high temperatures , is of great interest theoretically , inasmuch as this body unequivocally indicates the pentadicity of phosphorus .
* " Researches upon the Specific Volumes of Liquids .
- I .Ou the Atomic Value of Phosphorus , " Proc. Roy .
Soc. xxiii .
p. 364 .

