442 Dr. J. Wickham Leg on the [ Apr. 6 , A=W r E2\#151 ; r2 1_ 2r2(log E\#151 ; log r)"~ W being the weight of water , in grammes , discharged in a second , the radius of the jet in turns of the micrometer-screw ( 6-8 turns of which correspond to 1 centim. ) , It being the radius of the aspirating tube .
The results obtained by observation accorded well with those given by this equation , so long as the value of E did not exceed the limit within which the suppositions regarding the motion of the air hold good .
The question was considered whether the results might not be brought into even closer accord with theory by the assumption that a slipping action takes place between the air and the water-jet on the one hand , and between the air and the tube on the other , instead of the assumption previously made that the air adhered alike to the water and to the tube in its passage .
The result of the calculation , however , led to no nearer approximation ; and , finally , experiments with other materials for the tube and other gases ( namely , coal-gas and carbonic anhydride ) were made , without resulting in any marked difference from the results obtained with air and glass .
II .
" An Inquiry into the Cause of the slow Pulse in Jaundice .
" By J. Wickham Lego , M.D. , Demonstrator of Morbid Anatomy in St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by J. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , Professor of Physiology in University College , London .
Deceived February 24th , 1876 .
It has long been known to physicians that the pulse of patients jaundiced and free from fever is often slow .
But I am not acquainted with any definite investigation into this subject until about thirteen years ago , when Eohrig published his researches upon the influence of the bile upon the heart* .
He was the first to find out that the bile-acids , not the pigments nor the ckolestearin , had the power to render the pulse slow .
He formed the opinion that this slow pulse was caused by a paralysis of the cardiac ganglia , because the pulse became slow after the injection of the bile-acids into the jugular vein , even when the vagi had been cut , and because the heart of .
the frog , cut out and plunged into a solution of bile-acids , beat a less number of times than when cut out and immersed in serum .
The following year Traube published an altogether different explanation ! .
It is well known that the bile-acids have the power of dissolving * 'Arch .
f. Heilkunde , ' 1863 , p. 385 .
Also in an Inaugural Dissertation , " Leber den Einfluss der Galle auf die Herzthatigkeit , " Leipzig , 1863 .
t ' Berliner klinische Wochen sell rift , ' 1864 , No. 1 ) and 15 ; also in ' Gesam melts Beitrago ' ( Berlin , 1871 ) , Bd .
i. p. 366 .
1876 .
] Cause of the slow Pulse in .
443 the blood-corpuscles .
If these bile-acids , therefore , be injected into the jugular vein , they destroy or injure the red corpuscles with which they meet , and the blood containing dissolved red corpuscles and bile-acids is quickly brought to the left side of the heart and thence into the coronary arteries .
This blood is unfit for the exchange of oxygen with the muscular substance of the heart , as the red blood-corpuscles are so much injured ; and it is to the consequent change in the muscular walls of the heart that Traube apparently attributes the slow pulse of jaundice .
About the same time Johannes Rank , in the course of his researches into the phenomena of tetanus , arrived at the conclusion that the bile-acids have a paralyzing action upon the striped muscular tissue , and that it is solely by the action of these acids upon the muscular fibres of the heart that the slow pulse is caused* .
He agrees with Traube in opposition to Rohrig and Landois + .
I have repeated most of the experiments of those who have gone before me ; but those only will be detailed which seem to throw a new light upon the matter in hand .
The bile-acids employed in these researches were prepared from oxgall by a slight modification of the process recommended by Kiihne+ .
I have to thank my friend Dr. Shuter , of Caius College , Cambridge , Assistant Demonstrator of Physiology in St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , for his kindness in preparing for my use some of the bile-acids used in these experiments .
In nearly all instances the bile-acids were dissolved in distilled water , 10 per cent , in strength .
I should mention that the acids were not separated from their combination with soda .
My first experiments were directed altogether to the heart of the frog , which lends itself readily to researches of this kind , as it can be separated from its attachments , and its contractions kept up by being fed with serum by means of an artificial circulation .
In this way I attempted to decide if the slow pulse be due to an excitement of the ends of the vagus in the heart .
The heart of a frog being arranged in Bowditc-h 's apparatusS , the following observations were taken :\#151 ; * Arch. f. Anatomicu .
Physiologic , 1864 , p. 340 ; also in 'Tetanus ' ( Leipzig , 1865 ) p. 395 .
t Landois , * Deutsche Klinik , ' 1863 , no. 46 , p. 449 .
| Lehrbuch d. phys .
Chemie ( Leipzig , 1866 ) , p. 75 .
S Por a description of this apparatus see Dr. Lauder Brunton 's 'Experimental Investigation of the Action of Medicines , ' London , 1875 , p. 72 .
2x2 Dr. J. Wickham Leg on the [ Apr. 6 Time Pul- Height of curve Remarks .
in seconds .
sations .
in millimetres .
In 130 31 5-5 55 32 6 55 38 4 Curves are double-topped .
95 31 G Atropia introduced into serum so that it contained '028 per cent. 30 0 7 Bile-acids ( serum containing 1 per cent. ) now introduced .
59 4 7 Records in continuous 30 seconds .
59 4 8 The pulse now goes in pairs , 6s-o between each pair of pulsations .
Between the pulses of each pair 3S,2 .
59 4 8-5 These do not go in pairs .
55 4 9 55 4 8 These go in pairs .
130 13 12 A great change in the character of curves .
Systole reaches maximum height , = G millims. , in ls,5 .
They slowly sink , scarcely meeting abscissa until next contraction begins .
Nearly all alike .
One takes up 23 millims. , others 38 millims. 55 12*5 10 Immediately after this the heart ceases to beat : no contractions upon electrical irritation .
Pour other like experiments with the like results were made : in one of them the bile-acids were added to the serum first , and the atropine added afterwards ; but the same results were attained .
The slowness of the pulse arose as before , and was unchanged by the addition of the atropine .
If it be true , then , that atropine paralyzes the ends of the vagus in the heart , it would appear that the slow pulse is not due to any excitement of the ends of these nerves in the heart .
The great height of the curves just before the heart ceased to beat does not favour , either , the belief that the slow pulse is due to a weakening of the muscular walls .
In order to test the foregoing experiments , I made further experiments upon the irritability of the vagus in poisoning by the bile-acids .
The heart and vagus of a frog laid bare .
Heart beating 12 in 15s .
The right vagus then irritated by induced electricity : the heart stood still in diastole .
Three or four drops of the pharmaceutical solution of atropine now let fall upon the heart .
Five minutes after the beats were 7 in 15s .
The right vagus was then again irritated by induced electricity , with no change in the heart .
After ten minutes , four drops of a 10-percent .
solution of bile-acids were let fall upon the heart and neighbour-hoed .
Thereupon , for nearly a minute , the heart-beats rose to 10 in 15s , 1876 .
] Cause of the slow Pulse in Jaundice .
445 but directly after fell to 6 in 15s .
Five minutes after , the beats being still 6 in 15s , the right vagus was again irritated , but no change followed .
Three minutes after the beats were 5 in 15s .
Experiment was then broken off .
Two other like experiments were made and with like results .
They would seem to show that the bile-acids do not restore to the vagus the inhibitory power destroyed by the atropine .
If , then , the slowness of the pulse be not due to the influence of the vagus on the heart , there remain two other factors in the movements of the heart to be considered\#151 ; the ganglia and the muscular walls .
Looking at the muscular walls as the cause of the slow pulse , it became of great importance to examine with care the experiments of Traube and Johannes 'Ranke , as to the action of the bile-acids upon striped muscular tissue .
Traube himself has made no immediate observations upon muscle .
He believes that the heart muscle is the organ affected , solely apparently because the low blood pressure and slow pulse so quickly disappear .
I can confirm nearly all Traube 's statements of fact by observations of my own .
Only the ecchymoses in the conjunctiva of the side used for injection have T failed to see .
The inspiratory spasm on the injection of the bile-acids into the carotid is extremely well marked , and persists after the removal of the cerebral hemispheres .
But it is hard to agree with his explanation of facts , and his " muscular-motor " theory remains at present a pure hypothesis .
In repeating Banke 's experiments I followed his method of injecting 10 cubic centimetres of a 1-per-cent , solution of bile-acids in saline solution into the aorta of frogs .
I noticed all the phenomena which he has described\#151 ; the irregular contractions of the muscles of the limbs as the injection passed into them , their rigidity and hardness immediately after the injection , and the absence of contraction on the application of electricity to the sciatic nerves .
Bank seems to think these appearances are best explained by supposing that the bile-acids have a specific influence upon muscular tissue .
Knowing , however , the power which the bile-acids possess of coagulating albumen ( a 1-per-cent , solution will coagulate white of egg ) , it seems to me that the appearances seen would be very fully explained by the chemical action of the bile-acids upon the albuminous substances of the muscle ; and a chemical action Bank himself admits .
I was thus led to make a series of experiments in which the bile-acids should not be immediately brought into contact with the muscles , but should act by means of the natural process of absorption .
The bile-acid solution was injected into the lymphatic sac or under the skin of frogs .
The amount given varied from '05 to *3 grm. Twelve experiments were made , and in nearly all no change in the curve traced by the myograph could be detected after the injection of the bile-acids , the observations lasting up to the time that the muscles responded to any amount of electricity that I was able to bring to bear upon them .
446 Dr. J. Wickham Leg on the ' [ Apr. 6 , The method used was as follows : the sciatic nerve was prepared , carefully avoiding all injury of blood-vessels the tendon of the gastrocnemius was attached to a string , and separated from the heel .
The frog was then put into a moist chamber , and the string attached to the tendo Achillis fastened to a telegraph lever writing on a revolving cylinder .
The sciatic nerve was then irritated by means of electricity from a Du-Bois-Beymond 's coil ; it was applied not oftener than once every 60s , and only of such amount as to cause the muscle to contract .
I here extract from my experiment-book a few experiments detailed at length .
Jan. 22.\#151 ; Excellent normal curves obtained .
*1 grm. of bile-acids injected under skin of back : no change in the curves , save that they grow smaller in height from 15m to 60m after the injection .
Feb. 2.\#151 ; -3 grm. of bile-acids injected into the lymph-sac of frog : no change from normal curves from 16mto 92m after the injection .
In three of these experiments changes in the natural curve were noticed after the injection of the bile-acids .
The same appearance was seen in all three , namely , that the muscle was a long time in recovering itself .
The down stroke of the muscle curve took some space before it reached the abscissa .
In two of these cases , however , the muscle curves taken before the injection of the bile-acids showed the same appearance .
After the injection the prolongation of the curve became somewhat more marked , varied by returns to almost normal markings .
It is thus impossible to attribute any weight to these variations .
The amount of bile-acid given in these two cases was '2 and '3 grm. respectively .
In the third case in which this lengthening of the curve was noticed no markings were taken before the injection , so that from this case it is again impossible to draw any inference .
The amount of bile-acid given was '3 grm. If , then , the bile-acids have no physiological action upon striped muscular tissue , have they yet any chemical influence upon the ventricle alone ?
I thought , therefore , of making some experiments upon the action of the bile-acids on the ventricle when separated from the rest of the heart .
It is commonly said that the ventricle of the frog 's heart continues to beat for some time after it be severed from the auricles .
I found , however , that the time was not long enough , nor the beating of the ventricle constant enough , to enable me to judge of the difference in time taken to bring the ventricle to a standstill if immersed in serum , or in serum containing 1 per cent , of bile-acids .
I therefore fell back upon a method lately employed by Luciani* .
It consists in introducing into the ventricle of the frog 's heart a tube divided vertically by a septum , and tying the ventricle on to the cannula below the auricles .
The heart is supplied by serum through the double cannula , and each * Arbeiten aus cl. phys .
Anstalt zu Leipzig , Jahrg .
rii .
1873 , p. 120 .
1876 .
] Cause of the slow Pulse in Jaundice .
447 pulsation is recorded by a manometer* .
I made five of these experiments , but could detect no change in the alternate standstill and tetanus , described by Luciani , after the introduction of bile-acids in 1 per cent , into the serum , nor after the removal of the bile-acid serum and the feeding of the heart with pure serum .
Both before and after the use of the bile-acids the contractions of the ventricle were the same .
It would seem , therefore , that the bile-acids have no influence , either chemical or physiological , upon the ventricle of the frog 's heart separated from the auricles .
If , then , the bile-acids have no influence upon the ends of the vagus in the heart , nor upon the muscular tissue , there remains , in the present state of knowledge , only one other cause of the heart 's movement which may beget la slow pulse , viz. the ganglia of the heart .
Arguing , therefore , per viam exclusionis , the same conclusion is reached as that of Rohrig , viz. that it is the action of the bile-acids upon the ganglia of the heart which causes the slow pulse in jaundice .
The same conclusion is come to , but upon altogether different grounds ; for it must be acknowledged that the grounds upon which Rohrig formed his opinion seem , in the present state of physiology , to be insufficient .
I have also made some experiments upon the influence which the bile-acids have upon the rate of pulsation of the lymphatic hearts of frogs .
The rate does not seem to be in any way influenced by the bile-acids .
The heart only begins to beat more slowly where general death is setting in from the action of the poison .
The blood-heart , on the contrary , begins to feel the influence of the poison within a few minutes of its injection , and the pulsations may sink from 13 to 3 in 15s in seven minutes after the injection of 1 cubic centimetre of the bile-acid solution under the skin .
I have made six observations upon the lymph-hearts , of which I add the details of one .
' Dec. 24 th.\#151 ; Right posterior lymphatic heart exposed at 10.55 a.m. The pulsations vary from 7 to 9 in 15s .
At 11.5 the average is 9 in 15s .
At 11.7 one cubic centimetre of bile-acid solution was injected under the skin of the neck .
At 11.12 a.m. 10 in 15s .
11.15 " 9 " 11.20 " 9 " 11.24 " struggles .
11.28 " 9 .
12 noon 10 in 15s .
At 12.20 p.m. another injection .
12.25 " 11 in 15s .
12,31 " 10 in 16s .
12.35 .
Lymph-hearts now ceased to act .
2.0 p.m. Animal found dead .
I have likewise made some observations upon the changes in the reflex * The double cannula is called by the Germans FroschherzventriJeelbestimmungs-apparat , and may be had of Hornn , the instrument-maker in Leipzig .
The one sent by him to me was , however , too large for the hearts of English frogs , and a smaller one on the same plan was made for me by Hawksley , of Oxford Street .
448 Mr. H. N. Moseley on the [ Apr. 6 , movements which follow the administration of the bile-acids .
I choose one of five experiments nearly all alike .
Dec. 19th.\#151 ; The anterior cerebral hemispheres of a frog , leaving the optic thalami uninjured , removed .
The foot was irritated by being plunged in water made just perceptibly acid to taste by sulphuric acid .
The numbers are in seconds .
12.22 .
12 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 6 , 7 , G. 12.32 .
*5 cubic centimetre of bile-acid solution injected under the skin of the back .
12.39 .
1 , 2 , 1 , 1 , 29 , 27 , 15 , 16 , 21 , 28 , 22 , 26 .
The head cut off at 1 o'clock .
1.25 .
9 , 9 , 9 , 9 , 10 , 10,10 .
In all cases a minute passed between the application of the irritant , and the foot was well washed with distilled water after each observation .
From these observations it would appear that the reflex irritability is greatly diminished by the bile-acids .
N In conclusion I wish to express my best thanks to Professor Burdon Sanderson , E.R.S. , and to Dr. Lauder Brunton , F.R.S. , for their great kindness in giving me invaluable advice and assistance throughout the research .
Many of the experiments were made in the Jodrell Laboratory at University College , London , under Professor Burdon Sanderson 's eye ; and the remainder were made in the Pharmacological Laboratory of my friend and colleague Dr. Lauder Brunton , at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
III .
" On the Structure of a Species of occurring at Tahiti , Society Islands .
" By H. N. Moseley , Naturalist to the f Challenger ' Expedition .
Communicated by Prof. Wyville Thomson , E.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff .
Received March 6 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper treating mainly of the structure of communicated to the Royal Society in the autumn of 1875 , some account was given of results arrived at from the examination of two species of Millepora obtained at Bermuda and at Zamboangan , Philippines ; and in that paper a summary of the literature concerning the tabulate corals generally was given .
The present paper , to be considered to a certain extent a continuation of the last , gives an account of the structure of a species of Millepora obtained at Tahiti , Society Islands .
The author commences by expressing his obligations to his colleague Mr. J. Murray , who obtained living specimens of the Millepora and handed them over to him with the zooids in the expanded condition for examination , and who further , having devoted some time to the study of the coral , gave him valuable information with regard to several points in its structure .

