On the progressive Improvements made in the Efficiency of Steam Engines in Cornwall ; with .
Investigations of the Methods best adapted for imparting great angular .
Velocities .
By Davies Gilbert , Esq. P.R.S. Read March 4 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 121 .
] The practical adaptation of the steam-engine to mechanical purposes is considered by the author as due to Mr. Newcomen , whose engines were introduced into Cornwall very early in the last century , and soon superseded the rude machinery which had till then been employed for raising water from the mines by the labour of men and of horses .
The terms proposed by Mr. Watt , in virtue of his patent in 1769 , which secured to him , until the year 1800 , the receipts of one third of all the savings in fuel resulting from the adoption of his improvements in the construction of the engine , rendered it necessary to institute an accurate comparison between the efficiency of his with former engines .
A copy of the report drawn up on this occasion , in October 1778 , is given in the paper ; but as the dynamic unit of one pound avoirdupois , raised through a height of one foot , had not yet been established as the measure of efficiency , the author , proceeding upon the data furnished by that report , calculates that the duty performed by Watt 's engine , with the consumption of one bushel of coal , on that occasion was 7,037,800 .
In the year 1793 , an .
account was taken of the work performed by seventeen engines on Mr. Watt 's construction , then working in Cornwall , their average duty was 19,569,000 ; which exceeds the performance of the former atmospheric engines , in the standard experiments , in the proportion of 2 78 to 1 .
Some years afterwards , disputes having arisen as to the real performance of Mr. Watt 's engines , the matter was referred to five arbiters , of whom the author was one ; and their report , dated in May 1798 , is given as far as relates to the duties of the engines .
The general average of twenty-three engines was 17,671,000 .
Since that period , so great have been the improvements in the economy of fuel and other parts of the machinery , that in December 1.829 , the duty of the best engine , with a cylinder of 80 inches , was 75,628,000 , exceeding the duty performed in 1795 , in the proportion of 3-865 to 1 ; and that of the atmospheric engine of 1778 , in the proportion of 10 75 to 1 .
The remainder of the paper relates to the friction in machinery , and the different modes of obviating its effects .
With a view of reducing the amount of friction , the author is led to consider what are the most proper forms for the teeth and cogs of wheels ; and through what intermediate steps a given increase of angular velocity may be most advantageously communicated , Equability of velocity is obtained , though at the expense of some degree of sliding friction , when the outline of the teeth of the wheels are involutes of circles .
Friction , on the other hand , is wholly prevented when their form is the logarithmic spiral ; but the angular velocities will then be variable .
Hence these two advantages are incompatible with one another ; but on the whole , the author gives the preference to the involute , which produces an equability of angular motion .
The most advantageous mode of increasing velocity by a series of wheels is to adjust them so that the multiplication of velocity shall proceed in a geometrical progression .

