]\gt ; Mr. G. H. Darwin on the Influence of [ Nov. 23 , November 23 , 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. Presidcnt , in the Chair .
pnrsuance of the Statutes , notice was given the Chair of the Amliversary]}Ieeting , and the list of Officers and Council proposed for elechon was rend as follows:\mdash ; \mdash ; Joseph Dalton Hooker , ] , D.C.L. , .D .
Treasurer.\mdash ; William Spottiswoode , M.A. , LL. D. .\mdash ; Secret.y.\mdash ; Professor Alexander lVilliam lVilliamson , Ph. D. Other }'of the Coujtcil .
John T. Boileau ; Varrcn De La , D.C.L. ; Professor P. Inrtin .
; Professor lyillia]n er , F.II .
C.S. ; ] , ] .
; , D.C.L. ; Francis .
; William Guy , .
; John Hind , F.R.A. S. ; The Bev .
Bober Jlf .
A. ; Pole , C.E. , .
Doc .
; The Rev. Bartholomew Price , M.A. ; dmiral G. .
; fIenry Clifton Sorby , Pres. Soc. ; Professor tienry J. Stephen Smith , .
; ofessor Balfour .
A. .
J. Croll and Prof. T. A. Thorpe )vcre i into { he Socicty .
The received laid on the Ible , ordered for them .
The Jcrs were read:\mdash ; I. Ou Influcnce of Ch on the Earth 's Axis of otation\ldquo ; -k .
By GEORGE 1N , A. , cllow of by Profcssor J. C. .
Received October 13 , 1876 .
( Abstrnct .
) The subject the or mobility of of rofation thnt the possibility of tions i of , has of 1 beeu much bc*Sincc ) paper was in nuscript Sir hns his to the ) ) tical S of Associntion ) ] .
IIo on some ns hc not I attacked ) os cting n tlJe author ctill ttlres to his .
to 1876 .
] Geological Changes on the Earth 's Axis .
329 lieves that it has not hitherto been treated at much length .
The paper , of which the is abstract , is ftJl attempt to investigate the resuIts of the supposition that the eilrth is changing its shape , with eference to the effects on the obliquity of the ecliptic and on the position of the earth 's axis of 1 .
This of the paper is del.oted to the of the precession and ntions of an ellipsoid of evolution } hich is lv and uniformly its shape .
is supposed to proceed from canses to the only to so long the total changes the priucipal moments of inertia A remain compal.ed to their difference , The problem is treated by means of M. Liouville 's itension of Euler 's equations of motion of a rigid body about a point * .
By tpproximate method lations may be treated as , and the solution ided i parts .
Let be the obliquity of the ecliptic ; the precession of ths equinoxes ; the velocity of ation of the ellipsoid ; the momPnts of at the time .
Thell it is shown that the secular effect 011 the obliquity of the ecliptic , resulting from the motion of the principnl in the body hich constitutes the first ) of the solution ) , is given by the ; and as resulting from the change in the impressed forces , due to the change of sbape of the body ( which constitutes the second part ) , is by II .
The former part be ected c with the lnfter .
But from such changes al.e entitled to assume in the cnse of the earth , the total in the nity of the ecliptic nmbt be exceedingly small .
ntic p lacinl period could not ltcred the position of the nretic circ.le by so much as chcs ; and this is the most ourable of mafter on the 's surfttce for produciug effect .
Thus of the ecliptic has remained sensibly hont g history .
lt is also that , during any deforu ) tion of ] ipsoid , the axis of tion will ays rem sensibly vi tho princ.ipal nxis of figure .
Iu the coursc of the ork by hich the ) relious resnlfs are nttained is to be a small the of 1110 cous axis , in consequence of thnt axis describcs ith ulliform Liouv .
Journ. 2e .
iu .
, p. 1 ; Dynam .
Mr. G. H. Dal'win on the Influence of [ Nov. 23 , velocity , and is coincident with the of figure every day ( in the earth ) .
This circle touches the aJong which the axis of is travelling in consequcnce of the deformntion of the earth 's shape .
The diameter of the ] is in a particnlar case ( ]lot unable to produce a large effect ) to be less than .
But although this inequality appears to be so small , it is interest and is discussed at some .
lt is shown that , if the earth be llot quite rigid , inequality might haxe the effect of modifying the path of the txis of figure ill the body , in coJlsequence of readjuslments to a of 1rious hypotheses as to the of adjustmeJlt are , and the of the prineipal in the precession of a viscous sphcroid ] are fouud .
It is maillfained that although the earth may be sensibly rigid to the tidally forces exercised by the sun and mooll , it old not be so to considerable rtures from the of equilibrinm , such as would rise from a wandel'ing of the of figure from its position ; and that readjustments to an npproximate form of equilibrium probably take place , at considerable of time , impulsively by means of .
Such adjustments would not sellSlbly modify the path of the axis as dne to terrestrial deformation .
But it is held that the consolidation of the there must } been great instability in the geographical position of the poles .
oughcut the rest of the , the of the earth 's iible 1idity , ethcr vs ith the poss ilify of or less rare readjustments to the of eqoilibrinm , is adhcred to .
In consequence of these results be dismissed , and it only remains to consider the ) ) of { he change in the ) axes to any nntion of 2 .
for this are here fonnd , and pted for numericalculation .
It is ahsumed , in the first the is such thnt there is no ) in the of equal accordin ositions as to the natnre of the intcl l aceomp ing geologica ] upheav and set aside .
3 .
The forms of } depression ] which , for the transport of a lantity of matter from art of he earth 's surface to allothel , otlld tlSC the imum d ] of axis of test m , hov , to the condition the layer or piled up shall here exceed a small the 's lady is thown that the and ] ) ioJlS must bc of miform hcight depth ; there must be two of simil to one that each has one of its kind posite to it ; in shape sphero-conics , formed by ection of certnill iptic cone ith the sphere ; that the centres of four GJological Changes on the Earth 's Axis .
8@1 are all on the same coinplete and all in latitude .
A Table of l.esults lding on the values of elliptic functions is givcn .
4 .
this pal't an endeaYour is made to collect as to the extent to the cal.th may have tion from geological ehangcs .
The object is to the areas over which there has been a consenta]leous rise or ] is the est 1 erticnl of that rise or ; also to mine the of the and { he se affect the local excesses or deficiencies of the .
The nreas of tion and a and globe , as far its cxccsscs or deficiencies of sm.face matter , to those obfain 011 the refelled to as " " \ldquo ; it is only the iLtion or subsidcnce which require to know in order to the shift of is .
The to CiLnse precise ries to of and be ; but , de , the author.s falher , .
Charlcs out for him on il the ( on of of he to lbsidence ithin a recent eriod .
a tion of this of other the mlthor b es thnt from to of the hole earth 's smfacc mftV , from inle to time , ation and subsidence .
greatcst effecti ) moUllt of rise or fall cam1ot be ined from evidence , because of the effects of erosion and of the influx of the sea into below the mean lev el of the earth .
The only ay of determining the point seems to be to find hat is the ence of lnass , ding on unit of the earth 's surfnce , in an oceftll of , , 10,000 feet de in land of , , 1100 feet this difference mass the elevation of an -bed its conversion land can be at once determined .
the bove numbers , it is to bc 10 , ) feet ; the examplcs ) en the , the deflection of the polnr nxis , for an ssttmed effective of 10,000 fcet , is ench It is then )( out ) if of hc ere of extent , the lcvel of the ) fely follow tho , and that thts licient c iu } to scnsibly nffect the position of ithout there of or .
cric.tion is 110 of to the case , tdl hc llts i 10,000 feet of ) tion .
applic nlion is to Cllfs 1 cffect , nnd urface imity 1 332 Influence of Geological Changes on Earth 's Axis .
[ Nov. 28 , ; if ; and if .
In each case an equal area is supposed to fall simultaJleously .
Other examples are then given for continents and seas which do not satisfy the maximum condition ; in some the boundaries ftbrupt cliffs , in others shelving .
The conclusion is arrived at , that a single large geological change , such as those which obtain on the earth , is competent to produce an altel'ation in the position of the pole of from one to three degrees of latitude , on the hypothesis that there is no in the law of internal density .
Various hypotheses as to the nature of the internal changes accoming the the earth are discussed .
First , it is that if upheaval and subsidence are due to a shrinking of the earth a whole , bub to the shrinking quicker the meaJl in some regions and slower others , the results are the same as those previously attained .
Second , the increase of surface matter due to the deposit of marine strata also gives the same results .
Third , the hvpothesis that upheaval and subsidence are due to the intumescence or contraction immedintely under the regions in question is considered .
certain special assumptions , too long to recapitulnte , it is shown that the previous results must be largely reduced .
Table of the values of the reducing ctor for various thicknesses of } intumescent strata is given ; from hich it appears if the stratum is tolerably thin and at all near the surface , the defleclion of the pole is reduced to quite an insignificant .
Even if the intumescence extends right down to the centre of the enrth in a cone bounded by the elevated region , the results would be only bout of the former ones .
Hence it appears the iLllier results llly be stated a superior limit to what is ible .
7 .
In collclusion it is out if the earth be quite rigid , no redistribution of matter in new continents ever the deviation of the pole from its position to exceed the limit of about But if the } ined view is correct , that the earth rendjusts itself to a new form of , then there is a possibility of a tive effect ; and the pole have Jldered some or from its primitive position , or made a smaller excursion and returned to near its old place .
such tion is possible , respect to the obliquity of the ecliptic .
It is suggested that possibly the glacial period not been of great cold , but that tJld Torth America may been then in a much highcr latitude , that on the pole they ere brought back to the } armth .
There seems to be , , cerlain geological ) jectious to area of Africa is bout 0o9 , South Amcrica abont033 of the earth 's

