Experiments for ascertaining the Velocity of Sound , at Madras in the East Indies .
By John Goldingham , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 20 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 96 .
] The author commences this paper with an abstract of the opinions , experiments , and calculations of several eminent philosophers who have studied the above subject ; and after remarking upon their discordant results , observes that his own experiments may perhaps furnish a clue for discovering the cause of such differences .
These were made at Fort St. George , where a morning and evening gun are fired from the ramparts , the former at daylight , and the latter at 8 o'clock in the evening .
Morning and evening guns are also fired at St. Thomas 's Mount ; and between these the Madras Observatory is situated , in latitude 13ยง 4 ' 8 , " N. , at which the observations were made with chronometers of 100 beats in 40 seconds .
Each observer began to count the beats in the interval of the flash and report .
Their number was registered , as well as the height of the thermometer , barometer , and hygrometer , and the state of the wind and weather at the time .
T'he distances of the guns from the observatory were ascertained with much precision ; that of the Mount gun being 29547 feet , and of the Fort gun 13932,3 feet .
The results of these experiments are given in eleven annexed tables .
From Tables 1 and 6 , it appears that the velocity of sound is much affected by different states of the atmosphere and weather ; and from Tables 2 and 7 , we find as the thermometer rose , the atmosphere at the same time decreasing in density , sound moved with increased rapidity .
The mean velocity of sound deduced from these experiments appears to be 1142 feet in a second , which closely corresponds with the estimate of Newton and Halley .
The comparison of the experiments with the Mount and Fort guns seems to show that sound travels equally in its progress ; and by comparing the observations upon the influence of wind , a difference is found of 1275 feet in a minute between the wind being in the direction of the motion of the sound , and opposed ; to it .

