Philosoph. Transact. Numb.178 .
E B A Full Description , with the Use , of the new Contrivance for Raising-Water , propounded in the Phil. Trans. No. 173 ; by Dr Papin , Fellow of the R. S. THere being already six Months , since I did first propound a new way for raising water , printed since in the Philosophical Transactions of July 1685 ; and no body having yet unriddled it , I believe it would be needless to conceal it any longer ; but will rather , according to my promise , give a full description of the whole contrivance ; that the R. S. may be pleased to improve it , and that it may be made use of , by those who may have occasion for it .
Tab. 1 .
Fig. 4 .
AA is the great Tumbler , that must have some little hole in the bottom as I. IL L. a slender Pipe hidden by the Chimney-Board B B , whereby the Tumbler AA hath communication with the Pump or bellows M M. M M. some kind of Pump or Bellows well shut , and having no other aperture , but through the Pipe IL L. These are put in some secret place , where a body may play the same and not be seen .
N N , a slender Pipe , that makes a communication between the glass A A , and the crown F F ; this Pipe reaches near to the cover of the crown , that the water contained in it , may not run down by that aperture .
EE the factitious Coral hollow within , shut at the bottom , and open at the top .
DDDD two crooked Pipes , soddered to the sides of the Coral E E , so that the water running down the Coral , may spout out through the holes D D. OOa pipe hidden in the Coral E E , passing through the bottom of the same , where it must be well soddered , and reaching near to the bottom of the Rock C C. PPa Pipe to convey the water from the glass GG into the Rock C C ; this Pipe is well soddered to the cover of the said Rock .
Qa valve working by a spring at the bottom of the Pipe P P , to keep the water , that gets in that way , from returning back .
R another valve at the top of the Pipe O O , that the water , getting up that way , may not fall through the same .
Now it is plain , that the Rock C C , being filled partly with water , and partly with Air ; if we open the bellows M M , the Air from the Crown F F , must run through the Pipe N N , into the Tumbler A A : and thence through the Pipe IL L , into MM to fill the vacuity made therein : the Air in the Crown FF being thus rarefied , gives liberty to the Air in the Rock CC to rarify too , by driving the water through the Pipe O O : the water being got up into the Crown F F , runs down the Coral E E , and through the crooked Pipes DDD spouts out at their upper apertures , and from the shells H H , falls upon the Rock C C : if we come afterwards to shut the Bellows M M , the Air got into their vacuity , must run back into the Tumblers A A , and press upon the water at the top of the Rock C C : but the Air in the said Rock , having been rarefied , its spring is not sufficient to resist this pressure , and so the water is forced into the said Rock through the Pipe P P : and by thus opening and shutting the Bellows M M , the water must constantly circulate by the ways aforesaid .
As for the uses , this way for raising water may be applied to , this I do conceive : the glasses , being meerly to conceal the secret , must be left out ; and there may be made several receptacles above one another to receive the raised water , so as doth the Crown F F : and there should be as many bellows to communicate every one with one receptacle : these bellows should be moved by an Axis , so that when the first is open , the second should be shut ; the third open , the fourth shut ; and so forth alternatively ; which may be easily done : by this means , the first or lowest receptacle would give the necessary supply of water to the second , the second to the third , the third to the fourth , &amp;c. till the water would be raised to the intended height : such receptacles might easily be set twelve or fifteen foot above one another , and so but few of them might raise water to a considerable heighth , as well as ordinary Pumps do ; but this new way would have this advantage , that in the ordinary pumps the strength to be applied lies near the water to be raised , but by this contrivance the stream of a River may be applied to draw water out of a mine far distant from it : by the same way the stream of the Thames might keep constant water works in Windsor-Castle , as easy almost as in the lowest fields : the River Seine might do the same at St. Germain , and perhaps at Versailles too , notwithstanding the great distance : for it is to be observed , that the Pipes of communication between the bellows and Engine , being meerly for the conveying of the Air , which moves very swiftly , they may be slender enough , and so contain but a small quantity of Air to be rarefied ; and besides they will not be subject to burst or leak , since the pressure they bear , being all external to the Pipe , will rather strengthen then break the same : from whence it follows , that the said Pipes need not be strong , but may be made at very small charges .
It is also to be observed , that those bellows , that are open , have the Air in them very much rarefied , so that the outward Air lies heavy upon ( to shut ) them , by which means the motion of the Engine must be helped in lifting up the opposite bellows , that are to be opened : and this observation may answer the greatest difficulty that might be objected against this contrivance ; so that I do n't question , but this way for raising water , may on several occasions be of a great advantage .
As a farther Explication of the use of this contrivance , see Tab. 3 .
Fig. 2 .
A B. AB .
Are several Receptacles set above one another , which must be well shut and soddered every where .
CD D. CD D. Are two slender Pipes , whereby the first and third receptacles have a communication with the Pump H H. OF F. OF F. Two other slender Pipes , whereby the second and fourth receptacles have a communication with the Pump I I. H H. I I. Two Pumps whose plugs are so moved by the Axis L L , that when one goes down the other goes up .
M M. A wheel fastened to the Axis L L , that it may be moved by the Stream of a River .
N O. P Q. N O. P Q. Are big Pipes for the water to to go up , from a lower into a higher receptacle .
O. Q. O. Q. Are Valves fitted to the top of the foresaid Pipes , that the water may not go down through the same .
Now it is plain that when the Plug in the Pump H H. is going up , the Air comes in through the Pipes CD D , and so it is rarefied in the first and third receptacles marked A A : and by that means the water may be driven up into the said receptacles through the Pipes N O. because at the same time the Plug in the Pump II going down , causes the Air to return to its ordinary pressure in the second and fourth receptacles , that it may be able to drive up the water through the said Pipes N O , and the lowest Pipe draws the water that lies open to the Air .
By the same reason when the Plug in the Pump II goes up , the Air must come in through the Pipes OF F : and so it is rarefied in the second and fourth receptacles marked B B , and by that means the water may be driven up into the said Receptacles through the Pipes P Q. P Q. because at the same time the Plug in the Pump HH going down , causes the Air to return to its ordinary pressure in the first and third receptacles , so that it is able to drive up the water through the said Pipes P Q.

