[ 303 ] X. On Polishing the Specula of Reflecting Telescopes .
By W. Lassell , F.R.S. , , LL. D. Received November 11 , \#151 ; Read December 17 , 1874 .
During my sojourn in Malta ( 1861 to 1864 ) I made many experiments in repolishing my four-foot mirrors , with a view to the obtaining , if possible , further excellence in figure and polish .
To obtain perfection in both these qualities , or so near an approach to it that no fault is discoverable in a four-foot surface , is not easy , at least I have not found it so .
Errors of figure may be of various kinds .
A surface may be so near to the true parabolic curve that the central and circumferential rays may come to the same focus ; but the intermediate rays , those halfway between the centre and circumference , may have a different focus .
If this error be considerable , and the telescope be turned to an object requiring fine definition , the effect is most annoying .
A first glimpse may lead you to expect you are coming to a very sharp image ; but just as the image ought to be formed in perfection , the outstanding intermediate rays introduce confusion , and after several vain attempts to improve the focus you retire in disgust .
This irregularity of curve I consider to be the most vexatious fault a mirror can have .
A deviation from the parabola at the circumference of the mirror , whether the deviation be within or beyond the parabola , is far more tolerable , if it be in a regular progress from the centre to the circumference .
Indeed a figure which deviates sensibly , but moderately , towards the edge , whether within or beyond the parabola , may give very tolerable vision , if the curve deviate from the parabola only in regular proportion from the centre outwards .
There is another error which is of less consequence , but still desirable to be got rid of , as it practically reduces the available aperture of the mirror , and consequently the size of the telescope .
The figure may be sensibly parabolic up to near the margin of the mirror , where it rapidly falls off and becomes grossly hyperbolic .
Probably this may arise from some different action of the polisher upon those parts of the speculum which in the process of working are alternately covered and exposed , or from the injudicious application of the rouge and water only near the edge .
With a view to obviate this defect of figure , I have found it advantageous to increase the sweep or stroke of the polisher , or , in other words ( referring to the description of my polishing-machine in the eighteenth volume of 'Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society ' ) , to increase the throw of the quick-moving crank .
While attempting to do this at Malta , using the same machine which had been originally constructed for the two-fobt speculum , and had given repeated indications of its being too weak for the work , it broke down hopelessly , and 2 s 2 I was obliged then to use some other arrangement or modification .
I was not able to alter my machine and carry out my experiments fully before my return home , and it is only of late that I have had leisure again to return to the subject .
But I have succeeded so perfectly and completely , even beyond my hopes , and by processes so simple , so certain , and so pleasurable , that I am desirous to place on record and before the world the means by which this has been accomplished .
In the machine I am about to describe , those familiar with the subject will probably recognize little that is new , for I have not hesitated to adopt parts of other machines that have been contrived , and rearrange or simplify them as I thought best for the required result .
In describing , however , this new machine , I am desirous not to say any thing in disparagement of that which I invented many years ago ( above referred to ) ; for with that machine , especially since I applied to it the elegant improvement of a train of wheels for producing uniform axial motion of the polisher ( a condition I had indeed attempted to secure by less efficient means ) invented by Mr. De La Rue , I have produced many surfaces , on various specula up to 12 inches diameter , which I have never been able to surpass , and which are indeed so perfect that I cannot discover in them any error whatever .
Still I have found it difficult , though not impossible , to use Mr. De La Rue 's train for specula as large as 24 inches diameter , the strain on the wheels ( being levers of the third kind ) endangering the teeth .
It was in applying this arrangement to polishing the four-foot that , although I had purposely had the wheel and pinion on which is the greatest strain made of cast steel , the machine broke down , and I was obliged to give up its use .
Description of the more recently constructed Machine .
Throughout the several figures the same letters generally indicate the same parts of the machine .
Those figures which represent that part of the machinery supporting the speculum are on a scale of inch to the foot , or one eighth the full size .
Plate 50 .
fig. 1 represents a firm support of wood or masonry for the cast-iron frame B of fig. 2 , to which all this part of the machinery is fixed ; and it will be seen that there is provision made for attaching it to a wall ; but that method is not so convenient as placing it on a firm and independent base .
The form of the plate and bracket B will be understood from the several views of it in figures 1 to 4 .
On its upper surface are two Y-shaped planed grooves shown at B1 .
On this travels a cast-iron plate , C , with V-shaped ribs fitting the grooves of the frame B , and , depending from its centre , is cast a hollow tube accurately bored inside ( C2 , figs. 1 \amp ; 2 ) .
There is also a boss cast on its under surface ( C3 , fig. 2 ) to afford a firmer support to the axis of the pinion ( or wheel ) of 26 teeth working through it .
In the upper and lower plates of frame B are two wide recesses or grooves shown in plan at B2 , fig. 4 .
These allow the downward projecting tube of plate C to pass backward and forward within certain limits , as the plate C travels along the Y-shaped grooves .
Fig. 5 shows a turned shaft fitting the bored tube of plate C with two toothed wheels keyed upon it , the upper wheel having SPECULA OP KEFLECTINGr TELESCOPES .
77 teeth and the lower wheel 60 teeth .
These are shown in position in figs. 1 \amp ; 2 .
Frame D , shown in the several figures , carries a tangent-screw ( figs. 3 \amp ; 4 ) working into the upper wheel of the shaft ( fig. 5 ) , the shaft of the tangent-screw having three speed-pulleys , the largest of which is 9 inches diameter , keyed on to it at its end , distant about 20 inches from the middle of the tangent-screw .
The lower wheel of the shaft ( fig. 5 ) engages with a smaller wheel or pinion of 26 teeth , in the lower end of the shaft of which is cut a slightly dove-tailed slot ( G , fig. 1 ) .
Through this slot passes the adjustable crank-arm ( E , fig. 2 ) , with a turned pin and shoulder at its end .
The stout bracket F is bolted to the underside of B , and contains a planed groove , vertically cut , which is fitted by a brass step bored to the size of the crank-pin , and travelling truly and smoothly in the slot or groove cut in the bracket .
The extreme throw of this crank is , radially , 2*2 inches ; therefore the entire journey of the plate C , with all that it carries , along the V-grooves in B is thus insured to the extent of 4'4 inches extreme thrust to and fro .
Cast on to the upperside of the tangent-wheel H are a central and three circumferential bosses , seen in plan in fig. 4 , and in elevation in figs. 1 \amp ; 2 .
The projecting pin of the central boss enters a hole of similar size in the centre of the back-plate of the speculum , on which , on its disks and levers , it reposes .
This central boss thus secures the centrality of the speculum whenever it is placed upon the machine .
The steadiness and horizon-tality of the back-plate is secured by three adjusting-screws affixed to the other three bosses ( of which one is seen in fig. 1 ) , having pins entering corresponding holes in the back-plate .
By a band from a suitable-sized pulley on the main driving-shaft of the steam-engine , motion is given to the pulley on the tangent-screw shaft ( I , fig. 1 ) .
This being engaged with the wheel of 77 teeth , causes the speculum to revolve on its axis , and at the same time , by means of the wheel of 60 teeth working into the pinion of 26 teeth , carries the speculum transversely or laterally along the Y-shaped grooves , according to the setting of the adjustable crank-arm E , fig. 2 .
The object of this transverse motion ( not always used or even necessary ) is to wipe out ( so to speak ) any ringlike character which might possibly appear in the process of polishing .
Thus far is a description of the apparatus by which the two motions of the speculum are obtained .
I proceed now to describe the method by which the required motions of the polisher or grinder are secured .
Description of the Apparatus for driving the polisher or grinder of a two foot Speculum .
Fig. 7 of Plate 51 is a plan , and fig. 8 an elevation , of this part , of the machine .
A represents the speculum as placed in position on the bosses of the tangent-wheel H , figs. 1 \amp ; 2 .
B is the principal spindle , with its adjustable crank for driving the long shaft C , which , seen in its two positions ( figs. 7 \amp ; 8 ) , needs but little description .
D is the main driving-pulley , which , in connexion with a shaft running along the ceiling , also driving the speed-pulley I ( fig. 1 ) , gives motion to the whole .
E is another vertical spindle attached to the wall of the laboratory , furnished also with a crank of nearly similar range to that on the spindle B , and connected also , by a radial bar , with the long shaft or lever C , as shown in fig. 7 .
On the spindle E is keyed a pulley 8-3 inches diameter , connected by a. crossed band with another pulley of 9 inches diameter , keyed on to the main spindle or shaft B. These pulleys , differing but little in diameter , are intended to be prime to each other , to avoid a repetition of the same strokes in the crank-arms .
Attached to the long shaft C is an apparatus for securing a regular slow motion of the polisher on a vertical axis .
On the back of the polisher is a circular rack of 128 teeth , driven by a pinion of 15 teeth , the shaft of which works in a little frame attached to the long shaft , as shown at F. On this small shaft are two pulleys , either of which , by means of two direction-pulleys ( G ) and a round band , may be driven by any of the pulleys which are keyed on the upper portion of the driving-pin of the crank-arm H. The axis of the direction-pulleys G is secured to a separate piece of wood , which can be fastened to the long shaft , or raised somewhat from it by means of two wooden screws , as shown in the drawing ; thus the band can be kept at a proper degree of tension .
If the direction-pulleys were to be brought into immediate connexion with any of those on the shaft H , the speed would be too great , and therefore two supplementary systems of speed- or cone-pulleys are introduced between G and H. These afford abundant scope for alteration of speed ; and by crossing any one of the bands the motion of the polisher on its axis may be either in the direction of that of the Sun or the reverse .
At J is a hook , attached by a cord going over a large pulley in the ceiling to a counterpoise-weight , by which the whole or any portion of the weight of the long shaft C may be supported .
The teeth of the circular rack and of the pinion are made as long as can be , consistently with their working well together ; and the counterpoise is so regulated that they remain engaged without the apices of any of the teeth coming into contact with the opposite bases .
Therefore the weight of the polisher , which is of course a constant quantity , or very nearly so , is the only weight pressing on the surface of the speculum .
The axial motion of the polisher is usually in the opposite direction to that of the speculum , and its speed is slower .
These constitute the ordinary motions of both the speculum and polisher .
The polisher , equal in diameter to the speculum , is made of two strata of white deal , such as is generally used for the inside carpentry of dwelling-houses , the grain of the wood being placed at right angles in the two disks , which are about 1^ inch thick , cut out of adjacent parts of the same well-seasoned board .
One surface of each board is planed as flat as possible , and then they are united together with the best glue under strong and equal pressure .
While the pressure is still applied and the glue warm , the disks are further secured in contact by about two dozen countersunk screws , equally distributed .
Calling the disks A and B , half the screws are entered on the side A , and half on the side B , each disk having been previously bored and countersunk for its own screws ( for expedition 's sake ) , so that only what boring may be necessary in the other disk is done after gluing .
The two external surfaces of the polisher are now to be wrought or planed , for symmetry 's sake , to fit approximately the concave gauge of curSPECULA O REFLECTING- TELESCOPES .
vature of the speculum .
The polisher is then to he painted with the best thin oil-paint , the process being continued or renewed until all the pores of the wood are perfectly saturated with the oil .
When perfectly dry it is to be well varnished , and then will be ready to receive the pitch .
For covering the polisher symmetrically with squares of pitch with due interstices ( a most essential condition ) , I have used a peculiar apparatus , which really converts this troublesome and very unmanageable process into one not at all irksome and also cleanly , speedy , and efficient .
This , which may be called a pitch-mould , is represented in Plate 52 .
fig. 9 , half the real size .
is a square prism of white deal , on the upper part of every side of which is hinged a piece of deal fitting closely to the prism , and extending about four tenths of an inch beyond the upper end of the prism .
The outsides of the upper ends of these pieces are a little tapered , so that , when their sides or surfaces are in contact with the prism , as in the figure , a light zinc hoop ( may be dropped over them to hold them in position .
A cell or mould is thus made on the top of the prism about 1^ inch square and four tenths of an inch deep .
The lower part of the prism ( c d ) is encompassed by a hoop of sheet lead , sufficient to make it sink in water and keep upright .
To have five or six of these moulds saves time in the process of casting the pitch .
Previous to being used , the moulds should be immersed for days , or at least 24 hours , in order that the pores of the wood may be so saturated with water that the melted pitch will not attach itself to any part of it .
And to bear this treatment well , the pins , as well as the leaves of the hinges , should be brass , and the attaching screws also brass .
Fig. 10 represents a cylindrical vessel of thin copper , about 11 inches in diameter and 11 inches deep , with a short copper tube hard-soldered in its side near the bottom , six tenths of an inch wide !
This tube is to be fitted with a very long and slowly tapering mahogany plug , so as to give plenty of latitude for regulating the flow of pitch .
I use .black pitch , made from Swedish or Russian tar , and have obtained it of very good quality from Tolhuest and Sons , 60 Tooley Street , in small kegs .
Formerly I used to strain the pitch through muslin ( a most disagreeable operation ) , but for many years I have forborne to do so , deeming it quite unnecessary ; and some other niceties , such as polishing the speculum in water of the same temperature as the laboratory , also I have laid aside .
The general tendency of my experience has been to approximate to the utmost simplicity consistent with accuracy of workmanship .
The best way of opening a barrel of pitch is to saw the staves through in the middle all round , when by a smart blow or two it will generally break in the middle into two portions .
By inverting one of them over a large sheet of brown paper and slightly tapping the loosened staves , any required quantity may be readily detached .
The pitch is generally so hard that it will bear this treatment even in hot weather .
The pitch-vessel may be conveniently placed on a low iron tripod , and the pitch melted by a Bunsen burner mounted at the end of a gasbracket .
The pitch is adjusted to the proper temperament by adding tar if it be too hard , and resin if too soft .
If the latter has to be added , it should be melted in another vessel and poured in while fluid .
The due attempering of the pitch may be secured by BOS ME .
W. LASSELL ON POLISHING THE a trial-and-error process as follows:\#151 ; Take a small sample of the melted pitch , and pour it on a thin copper plate .
Immerse it in a vessel of water of the probable temperature of the apartment in which the polishing-process is to be conducted .
When the pitch has acquired this temperature , place it on a table , and subject it to the weight of a ' new sovereign placed on edge for sixty seconds .
If it receives three clear impressions of the milling-strokes in that space of time , it will be about right .
It should not receive less than 2^ nor more than 3|- strokes , A simple frame should be made to hold the sovereign vertically , without influencing its weight .
When of right consistence , the burner should be so regulated that the pitch should not flow too rapidly when the plug is partially or wholly withdrawn : indeed , the cooler the pitch , without endangering its regular flow , the better ; it will be less liable to adhere to any of the moulds when poured into them .
The moulds should have been placed , as before directed , in cold water , the surface of the water being an inch or two above the tops of the moulds .
One of the moulds is to be withdrawn from the water , quickly emptied by inversion , placed under the side tube of the pitch-vessel , and filled level full of pitch by partially withdrawing the plug .
The filled mould is then to be sunk just under the surface of the water of another vessel and allowed to remain a few minutes .
This time may be occupied by filling about half a dozen other moulds , when the first will be ready to be taken out of the water .
On lifting off the zinc hoop and letting down the hinged sides , the symmetrical casting of pitch will have become hard enough to drop off instantly into the water , leaving the mould quite clean , which should , however , be returned to the water before being used again .
But little experience will , I think , be required to secure this process being carried on easily and successfully .
Should a single particle of pitch stick to any of the moulds it must be perfectly removed before being used again ; and if any of the moulds should give any trouble in this respect , a slight touch of rouge on the wood will probably defend it from the pitch ; but if the moulds have been long enough in the water this ought not to be required .
The squares of pitch must not remain long in contact , even under water , as they are apt to adhere .
They are best placed , soon after being formed , on a level deal board , the squares just covered with water , when they will take no harm for a considerable time .
I use the following mode of attaching the squares of pitch symmetrically and firmly to the base of the polisher .
Fig. 11 , Plate 52 , represents a piece of stout sheet iron 3^ inches broad and about 13 inches long , bent into the form a a , to which is riveted another piece { h ) .
The lower part of the upper portion of a is curved into a channel , and a sheet-iron cup ( \lt ; ?
) receives any waste pitch which may overflow .
The upper part of a is heated by a Bunsen burner being placed below it .
Three prisms of deal , four tenths of an inch square , two of them 12 inches long , the other 24 inches , are to be prepared and well soaked in water : these are to be lightly tacked to the base , as shown in fig. 12 ( Plate 50 ) .
A fourth prism , some 8 or 9 inches long , is also required , and these serve to aid in placing the squares correctly and to mark out the interstices between them .
The fourth prism is unattached , and kept in the hand to mark the separation as each SPECULA OF REFLECTING TELESCOPES .
square is applied .
I begin at the centre , as in the figure ; and after laying down two rows along the two radii of the first quadrant , I then proceed to the opposite quadrant , and similarly with the remaining quadrants , with a view of producing uniformity as much as possible over the whole surface .
The squares are now to be successively taken up by the fingers , drawn rapidly across the heated plate fig. 11 ) , which completely melts the under surface of the square without penetrating beyond a mere film , and prepares it to adhere firmly to the base by a pretty hard but quickly withdrawn pressure .
The 24- and 12-inch rods should be removed as soon as they have answered their purpose , lest any of the squares should adhere to them .
If not used immediately , the polisher should be kept in a strictly horizontal position , either face up with a cover on , or inverted and suspended by hooks embracing three pins of stout wire , inserted equidistantly in the circumference of the polisher , as in figure 13 .
Before describing the actual process of polishing , I may say a word or two on the rough-grinding and preparing the speculum for reception of the polisher .
The roughgrinding proper is a very easy process , and may be accomplished in various ways , the chief requisite being patience* A very good grinder may be constructed exactly as is the base of the polisher , and then covered with 2-inch or 2^-inch square leaden castings , four or five tenths of an inch thick , each screwed to the base by a couple of stout joiner 's screws .
A convenient mould for the castings may be very easily constructed of sheet iron , with pins inserted to leave holes for the screws .
The metal is improved if a little tin be added to the lead .
Of course , the process of grinding must be watched , and the gauge of curvature applied occasionally , correcting any error by lengthening or shortening the strokes of the machine as the case may require .
In this way , by gradually increasing the fineness of the emery , the surface of the speculum may be brought up to a condition fit for the polisher ; but , finding the process very tedious towards the last , and having been frequently much annoyed by the sudden appearance of a scratch or two , I have resorted to a bed of , as an intermediate tool between the grinder and polisher .
The base of this is a circular disk of Bangor slate , 24 inches in diameter , and about eight tenths of an inch thick , planed flat on both sides .
This is covered with pieces of German hone ( Bohemian blue stone ) ; they are to be obtained from F. Alexander , 103 Leadenhall Street .
The hones are about 7 inches long , and about eight tenths of an inch square .
They are cemented on to the base with hard pitch , their under surfaces having been previously ground flat on a facing-plate , as it is necessary that their contact with the base should be intimate and accurate .
The upper surface of the bed of hones must of course be made to fit the gauge , of curvature , which is accomplished , without much difficulty , with a coarse file or rasp , correcting it as the coincidence approaches accuracy by a few strokes upon the speculum itself .
Fig. 14 represents generally the form of the bed , and the direction in which the hones are placed , attention being paid to balancing , so to speak , the opposite sides of the tool by having the grain of the hones in the same direction* .
When the coincidence has been rendered nearly perfect , the tool may be wrought upon the speculum with a little fine-sifted emery , water being freely applied as the mud forms , and finishing with finely powdered hone-dust .
This process will produce a very fine surface on the speculum , quite fit for the application of the polisher and for examination of the figure by the image of a bright star .
This tool is very convenient in case of having , in polishing , produced a hyperbolic figure , as it may be reverted to and a spherical figure obtained in an hour 's working .
On the back of the bed of hones , as also on the back of the polisher , is screwed a cast-iron socket , loosely fitted by a stout pin , about half an inch in diameter , depending from the lever or long arm ( C , fig. 8 ) .
This pin should be firmly attached , as it has to bear all the strain of the machine , both in grinding and polishing .
The weight of the bed of hones is about 61 lb. , and of the polisher about 35 lb. Presuming the speculum to have now a sufficiently fine and approximately spherical surface from the hone-tool , it will be ready for the polisher .
The temperament of the latter should be of course in due relation to the existing temperature of the laboratory .
The surface of the pitch must retain its originally pure texture , or it will not polish quickly and well ; and it must be slightly warmed and placed upon the clean wetted face of the speculum before any powder is applied , to insure a nearly even and uniform contact between the polisher and speculum .
The surface of pitch is conveniently and uniformly warmed by the apparatus represented in fig. 13 .
Two pulleys revolve on axles driven horizontally into a beam , a stout cord ( sash-line ) running over both .
One end of the cord is attached to a counterpoise-weight , and the other by a swivel and three cords to the polisher , which is thus suspended face downwards .
The three cords terminate in three hooks , respectively receiving the ends of the three equidistant pins inserted in the circumference of the polisher .
At a is a piece of wood and tightening-screw , which can be made to clip the cord to the beam , and prevent its motion when the equilibrium is about to be destroyed by removal of the polisher .
When in oequilibrio the polisher can be raised or lowered at pleasure , the screw being withdrawn during the process of warming .
On the floor , under the polisher , is placed a small chauffer or furnace ( Plate 52 .
fig. 12 ) , made of four fire-bricks or tiles 9 inches long , 4^ broad , and 2^- inches thick .
These are put together so as to enclose a space about 5\#163 ; inches square and 4^ inches deep , which forms the receptacle for the charcoal .
The base on which the bricks stand contains a grating of bars \ inch square , with equal spaces between .
Supported on the bricks , and a few inches above them , is a piece of sheet iron rather larger than the area of the furnace , to prevent the direct heat of the ignited charcoal from acting on the pitch .
The heated air ascends all round the plate , and by revolution of the polisher with a little swinging motion , its surface is uniformly warmed .
By means of the counterpoise , the polisher can be raised or lowered at pleasure according to the heat required .
Some judgment is necessary in warming the pitch .
* The hones are put on entire in their -whole length j but their upper surfaces are slightly grooved , so as to give the tool the aspect of a system of squares .
SPECULA OF REFLECTING- TELESCOPES .
The heat must not penetrate far into it , nor must the heat be so suddenly or powerfully applied as to melt the surface ; it must be merely softened .
The surface of the speculum having been freely wetted by a large sponge and clean cold water , the pitch-surface as softened must be quickly laid upon the speculum and gently and slowly moved to facilitate contact .
It is well not to err on the side of too much warming , as if necessary the process can be repeated until the contact is complete .
On removal of the polisher it will be instantly seen to what extent the surfaces coincide ; and it is desirable that the contact should be very uniform , and that some part at least of every square should touch the speculum ; if that is not the case , another warming should be resorted to .
For polishing I use the finest plate-powder , or jeweller 's rouge , which may be obtained of excellent quality from Medway and Co. , Owen 's Court , Goswell Road .
This requires no further sifting .
A quantity of it is put into a flat-bottomed jar and well stirred about with water equal to seven or eight times its bulk .
It is then left to subside until almost all the water can be poured off quite clear .
Of course the finest particles of the powder will be now upon its upper surface ; and I have ever found these to be capable of producing as fine a lustre as the speculum is capable of receiving .
Without disturbing much more than the surface of the powder , the speculum is now , by means of a flat camel's-hair pencil , to be covered with the rouge and water of the consistence of cream .
The polisher may be again very slightly warmed , placed upon the speculum and the machine set to work .
The motive power I have used and found quite adequate is a steam-engine of 4^ inches diameter of cylinder and 8 inches stroke , making 120 revolutions per minute , with pulleys on the horizontal shaft of such size as to drive the crank H either thirteen or seven revolutions per minute .
The mode I have employed for converting the spherical curve into a parabolic one has been by flattening or wearing down the exterior parts of the mirror , not by deepening the central ones ; and this has been accomplished generally by altering the throw of the crank H and its rate of motion .
In this I have been guided by the following consideration .
If the polisher , at a proper temperament , be placed out of the centre upon the speculum with one part of its edge hanging over the speculum some 3 or 4 inches , and be allowed to remain a few minutes in that position , it will require a strong effort to bring it back to a central position over the speculum , the unsupported pitch-surface having in that interval fallen down slightly by the force of gravity .
In forcing the pitch back to its normal figure , it must necessarily exert an undue pressure upon the exterior part of the speculum over which it travels , and , if charged with powder , would certainly abrade that part more than other parts nearer the centre , and , so far as its operation reached , would tend therefore to produce a parabolic curve .
Now if the throw of the crank H be lengthened , the polisher at each stroke will be carried more over the edge , and therefore this tendency would be increased ; and if at the same time the speed be diminished , the duration of the overhanging of the polisher at each stroke would be longer , and the parabolic effect proportionally increased .
The result is still 2 t 2 further augmented by the slight increase of temperature acquired by the pitch in the act of polishing .
Acting on this principle , which has been supported by pretty extensive practice , I usually set the crank H , for polishing a twenty-four-inch speculum with a focus of ten diameters , to a radius of 3-0 inches , and the crank E to a radius of 2*75 inches , with a speed of motion of H producing about seven revolutions per minute .
The pulley on the main shaft , in connexion with the largest speed-pulley I , of fig. 1 , Plate 50 , is about 4T inches diameter , causing the speculum to revolve once in about 3m 45s against the sun ; and the speed-pulleys on the long arm C of fig. 8 have their bands so arranged as to cause the polisher to revolve on its axis once with the sun in about 5m 8s , none of these bands being crossed .
The band on the pulley on the vertical shaft H , connecting it with that on the vertical shaft E , is necessarily crossed to increase its friction .
A slight addition to the counterpoising weight of the long arm C lifts its end about 2 inches above its ordinary working position , so that there is now room to place the polisher upon the speculum already charged with rouge .
By restoring the counterpoise the pin may be introduced into its socket on the back of the polisher and the engine started .
Pretty frequent supervision of the operator will now be necessary through the whole process , which may last three or four hours ; and perhaps the lustre may not be brought up to its maximum even in that time .
I generally allow the machine to proceed uncontrolled until the powder begins to disappear from the intermittently exposed margin of the speculum .
By this time the powder , as it works slightly over the edge of the speculum or adheres to it , ought , if it has been working well , to have become considerably darker in hue , so as to tend to a purplish colour , from the admixture of minute metallic particles .
Nothing like dryness of the edge must be permitted to supervene .
The engine should now be stopped and the polisher withdrawn by sliding it off the speculum .
Probably the incipient polish may be somewhat more advanced towards the exterior of the speculum , which is what is desired ; but it should not be very strikingly so , and the advance should be regular , not sudden .
It is not well to add powder while the machine is going ; it cannot then be added uniformly over the whole surface , and it tends therefore to irregularity of action .
The aspect of the polisher should be examined .
Some part at least of every square ought to have been obviously in contact , and an oblique view should reveal no apparent inequality of texture .
As rapidly as convenient , and before the squares can dry , the powder which may have lodged in the grooves should be distributed evenly over the whole surface ; and after the speculum has had another pretty free dose of powder , the polisher should be placed upon the speculum and the process be carried on .
When the powder has apparently been again used up and has nearly disappeared from the speculum , the polisher may again be removed .
And now the lustre ought to be very considerably advanced , and the little powder adhering to the edge of the speculum be of at least a deep purple colour .
The powder may be lightly and quickly removed from the grooves in the pitch with the camefs-hair brush , and distributed over the SPECULA OP KEFLECTING TELESCOPES .
surface as before .
A very slight application of only the finest particles of fresh powder is now to be applied to the speculum and the process renewed.- Before this powder becomes used up , the lustre ought to be sufficient , as may be ascertained by inspecting the circumferential parts of the speculum as they become successively exposed .
The tendency to dry at the edge is now much increased , and must be prevented by touching the edge from time to time with the camers-hair pencil charged with scarcely coloured water .
This may be continued for some time , the lustre advancing very rapidly , and the colour of the powder becoming really black .
What I have described , if all has gone on well , may occupy perhaps three hours , speaking roughly ; for the perfect success of the process depends upon some niceties\#151 ; such as the exact adjustment of the temperament of the pitch to the heat of the apartment , and the steadiness of its heat during the time of working .
I may remark that nothing abnormal in the process , such as any irregularity in the motion of the polisher on its axis , must be permitted to occur without at once stopping the engine and correcting the error ; perfect smoothness and evenness of motion must exist throughout , and also perfect uniformity of aspect of the polisher in its several removals must be apparent , or a good result cannot be hoped for .
But in this machine the motions of the polisher are so perfectly , and yet , so to speak , so gently controlled , that irregularity is not to be expected ; and if it should occur , a moment 's reflection will most likely reveal the cause .
It is probable that this first polishing may not have brought the speculum quite up to the parabola , but I think it desirable to clean it off and prepare it for examination .
This is best done with a large and very soft sponge and plenty of pure water .
This cleansing must be continued until not a vestige of powder remains , nor any trace of smear or impurity whatever .
The sponge having removed all superfluous water , the drying is to be effected with a couple of old soft linen cloths , good absorbents .
The wiping must be light and quick , and continued until every particle of moisture has disappeared from the speculum .
It is then best left without a cover for half a day , that it may uniformly acquire the exact temperature of the apartment .
The cover may then be put on , and afterwards the less the surface of the speculum is touched the better .
If there he occasion for it , however , I never hesitate to wash and wipe it in the same soft and careful manner ; nor indeed , if at any time there appear any grease-stains or spots , to first pour upon the surface a very little soft water in which a bit of soda has been dissolved , lightly distributing it over the whole surface with the finger , and immediately afterwards applying the large sponge and pure water .
The 'polisher also requires immediate attention , as if no great change in the temperature of the air occurs , it may be used for repeated polishings .
But the surface charged with rouge and metallic particles must be completely removed or it will never polish well .
This is best done by first well washing , to remove all'that a painter 's brush will remove , and then tearing up the extreme film of the surface with a piece of " steel-card , " such as is used in cotton-mills for carding cotton .
As this film is extremely hard and ra pidly destroys the edge of any cutting-tool , it was a relief to me to find that this instrument answers the end perfectly , exposing the pure under surface of the pitch without sensibly diminishing its thickness .
The polisher should be placed in an inclined position and plenty of cold water used .
If not immediately required , the polisher may be kept for an almost indefinite time in a perfectly fit state for use , and amidst considerable changes of temperature , by keeping it suspended horizontally , and occasionally examining its surface to see if it requires to be kept face downward or the reverse .
For examination of the figure of the speculum I have always chosen to remove it from the machine , place it in the tube and turn it on a bright star , which is doubtless a severe and even crucial test .
And in addition to thus examining the image and penumbrse of a star with the full aperture , I am accustomed to expose successively different portions of the mirror to the stellar rays , noticing whether or not any different setting of focus is required .
For this purpose I have a set of six diaphragms , exposing respectively a central disk and five concentric rings , all of equal area ; and I do not pronounce any mirror perfect in which the eye is not satisfied with the same focus for all these .
I do not say that the same precision of image is to be expected from the extreme external annulus when all the rest of the mirror is blocked out ; but if the focus be set upon it , it ought to be the same as that required for the central portion .
This I consider a severe test ; and beside revealing the character of the general curve , it affords a means of determining its regularity , by examination of the images formed by the intermediate annuli .
A strict measure of any differences of foci which may be manifested will point out where the error lies .
In the surface in question there may probably be a slight spherical error , which may be removed by another hour 's polishing with the same settings of the machine and a very moderate dose of the finest rouge .
If , on the contrary , the figure should be hyperbolic , I should revert to the hone-tool , and repeat the process of polishing .
From this description I think it will be seen that there is little that is irksome , tedious , or even uncertain in polishing by this process and with this machine a two-foot mirror .
With a little experience and some mechanical aptitude , the operation is easy , and becomes very interesting ; for though to obtain the highest perfection of figure repeated trials may be necessary , the process is by no means disappointing\#151 ; the figure , if reasonable care be taken , being always useful and to a considerable extent satisfactory .
The principal part of the work can be done single-handed , though occasionally an assistant is required , chiefly in removing the speculum to and from the observatory .
The speculum ( weight about four hundred pounds ) is lifted from the machine with a small pair of three-sheave blocks , placed upon a low carriage , taken to the observatory , hoisted with the same blocks on to a platform nearly level with the lower end of the tube when placed vertically , and finally lifted into its place by an elevating-screw placed centrally under the back-plate .
The time consumed by this operation , including fixing the levers of horizontal support and final adjustment , extends to about two hours .
SPECULA OF REFLECTING TELESCOPES .
A well-fitting , but not tight , tin cover , which may be removed and replaced when the speculum is in the tube through a slit in its side , is all the protection the mirror requires ; but it is desirable that there should be a light wooden cover hinged so as to fall over this opening when the telescope is in use , to prevent any drop of moisture falling from the roof from reaching the speculum .
This is all the protection I give my mirrors , and I have never found them tarnish .
I have tried quicklime , but found it to be quite unnecessary , and , besides , an intolerable nuisance .
I may add , finally , that I shall rejoice if I have succeeded in my endeavour to describe this interesting process so that any person of ordinary , intelligence , and not quite unacquainted with mechanics , may succeed in producing , without difficulty , surfaces of at least a very high degree of perfection .
Phil. Trans. 1875 .
Plate 50 W.West \#171 ; C ' 11th Scale : 4- crvchs to cl foot .
Phil. Trans. 1875 .
Plate 52 mm mil i TTTT Mil IfTT Fig. 10 I I I I I I " W'.'Weti \amp ; C'11th

