1891 .
] Comparison of Simultaneous Magnetic Disturbances .
129 Still the matter is left indeterminate from the statical standpoint .
From the dynamical standpoint , however , we are led to a certain definite stress distribution , which is also , fortunately , free from the above objection , and is harmonised with the flux of energy .
A peculiarity is the way the force on an intrinsic magnet is represented .
It is not by force on its poles , nor on its interior , but on its sides , referring to a simple case of uniform longitudinal magnetisation ; i.e. , it is done by a electromagnetic force on the fictitious electric current which would produce the same distribution of induction as the magnet does .
There is also a force where the inductivity varies .
This force on fictitious current harmonises with the conclusion previously arrived at by the author that , when impressed forces set up disturbances , such disturbances are determined by the curl of the impressed forces , and proceed from their localities .
In conclusion it is pointed out that the determinateness of the stress rests upon the assumed localisation of the energy and the two laws of circuitation , so that with other distributions of the energy ( of the same proper total amounts ) other results would follow ; but the author has been unable to produce full harmony in any other way than that followed .
VI .
''Comparison of Simultaneous Magnetic Disturbances at several Observatories , and Determination of the Value of the Gaussian Functions for those Observatories .
" By W. Grylls Adams , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in King 's College , London .
Received June 11 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) After drawing attention to previous investigations on this subject , and pointing out the importance of adopting the same scale values for similar instruments at different Observatories , especially at new Observatories which have been recently established , the discussion of special magnetic disturbances is undertaken , especially the disturbances of a great magnetic storm which occurred on June 24 and 25 , 1885 , for which photographic records have been obtained from 17 different Observatories : 11 in Europe , 1 in Canada , 1 in India , 1 in China , 1 in Java , 1 at Mauritius , and 1 at Melbourne .
The records are discussed and compared , tables are formed of the simultaneous disturbances , and the traces are reduced to Greenwich mean time and brought together on the same plates arranged on the same time-scale .
Plates I and II show the remarkable agreement between the disturbances at the different Observatories , and the VOL. l. K 130 Prof. C. I. Burton and Mr. W. Marshall .
[ June 18 , Tables show that the amount of disturbance , especially of horizontal magnetic force , is nearly the same at widely distant stations .
An attempt has also been made to apply the Gaussian analysis to sudden magnetic disturbances , and , with a view to their application in future work , the values of the Gaussian functions have been obtained for 20 different Observatories , and the numerical equations formed for the elements of magnetic force in three directions mutually at right angles , and also the equation for the magnetic potential in terms of the Gaussian coefficients to the fourth order .
The Tables give the numerical values to be multiplied by the 24 Gaussian coefficients to give the values of the forces X , Y , and Z in the geographical meridian towards the north , perpendicular to the meridian towards the west , and vertically downwards respectively .
The equations are also formed and the values obtained in terms of the 24 Gaussian coefficients for X2 , Y2 , and Z2 , X2 being the horizontal force in the magnetic meridian , Y2 the horizontal force perpendicular to the magnetic meridian , and Z2 the vertical force .
If then X2 , Y2 , and Z2 be the observed values of any simultaneous disturbances , they may be at once substituted in the equations , the equations giving the 24 Gaussian coefficients may be solved , and the corresponding change of magnetic potential may be determined .
VII .
" On the Measurement of the Heat produced by Compressing Liquids and Solids .
" By the late Cosmo Innes Burton , B.Sc. , F.C.S. , Professor of Chemistry , Polytechnic , Shanghai , and William Marshall , B.Sc. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor Thorpe , F.R.S. Received June 10 , Read June 18 , 1891 .
In the year 1885 Messrs. Creelman and Crocket ( 'Edinburgh Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 13 .
p. 311 ) , under Professor Tait 's supervision , performed a series of experiments on the heat produced by the compression of various substances .
Their method was briefly as follows:\#151 ; For the application of the pressure , the same apparatus which we describe and figure later was used .
A thermo-electric junction of insulated nickel and iron wires was fixed between the leather washers and a sufficient length of wire coiled away inside the gun to allow the junction to be drawn out at the top and a specimen attached to it .
Among the substances examined were glass , cork , vulcanite , glue , bees'-wax , and paraffin oil , the only pure chemical compounds being chloroform and ether .
The following are some of the results obtained .
Pressure , about 1 ton on the square inch .

