Num 12 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
Munday , May 7 .
1666 .
The Contents .
A way of Preserving Birds taken out of the Egg , and other small Fetus 's ; communicated by Mr Boyle .
An Extract of a Letter , lately sent to Sr. Robert Moray out of Virginia , concerning an unusual way of Propagating Mulberry-trees there , for the better improvement of the Silk-Work ; together with some other particulars , tending to the good of that Royal Plantation .
A Method , by which a Glass of a small Plano-Convex sphere may be made to refract the Rays of Light to a Focus of a far greater distance , than is usual .
Observations about Shining Worms in Oysters .
Observations of the Effects of Touch and Friction .
Some particulars , communicated from sorrain Parts , concerning the Permanent Spott in Jupiter ; and a'contest between two Artists about Optick-Glasses , &amp;c. An Account of a Book written by Dr. Thomas Sydenham , entitled , Methodus Curandi Febres , propriis Observationibus superstructa .
A way Of preserving Birds taken out of the Egg , and other small Faetus 's ; communicated by Mr. Boyle .
THis was imparted in a Letter , as follows ; The time of the year invites me to intimate to you , that among the other Uses of the Experiment , I long since presented the Society , of preserving Whelps taken out of the Dams womb , and other Faetus 's , or parts of them , in Spirit of Wine ; I reEe member member , I did , when I was sollicitous to observe the Process of Nature in the Formation of a Chick , open Hens Eggs , some at such a day , and some at other days after the beginning of the Incubation , and carefully taking out the Embryo 's , embalmed each of them in a distinct Glass ( which is to be carefully stopped ) in Spirit of Wine : Which I did , that so I might have them in readiness , to make on them , at any time , the Observations , I thought them capable of affording ; and to let my Friends at other seasons of the year , see , both the differing appearances of the Chick at the third , fourth , seventh , fourteenth , or other days , after the Eggs had been sate on , and ( especially ) some particulars not obvious in Chickens , that go about ; as the hanging of the Guts out of the Abdomen , &amp;c. How long the tender Embryo of the Chick soon after the Punctum saliens is discoverable , and whilst the Body seems but a little Organixed Gelly , and some while after That , will be this way preserved , without being too much shrivel 'd up , I was hindred by some mischances to satisfy my self : but when the Faetus 's , I took out , were so perfectly formed as they were wont to be about the seventh day , and after , they so well retained their shape and bulk , as to make me not repent of my curiosity : And some of those , which I did very early this Spring , I can yet show you .
I know I have mentioned to you an easy application of what I , some years since , made public enough ; but not finding it to have been yet made by any other , and being persuaded by Experience , that it may be extended to other Faetus 's , which this season ( the Spring ) is time to make provision off , I think the Advertisement will not seem unseasonable to some of our Friends ; though being now in haste , and having in my thoughts divers particulars , relating to this way of Preserving Birds taken out of the Egg , and other small Faetus 's , I must content my self to have mentioned that , which is Essential , leaving divers other things , which a little practise may teach the Curious , unmentioned .
Notwithstanding which , I must not omit these two Circumstances ; the one , that when the Chick was grown big , before I took it out of the Egg , I have ( but not constantly ) mingled with the Spirit of Wine , a little Spirit of Sal Armoniack , made ( as I have elsewhere delivered ) by the help of Quick-lime : which Spirit I choose , because , though it abounds in a Salt not Sour , but Urinous , yet I never observed it ( how strong soever I made it ) to coagulate Spirit of Wine .
The other circumstance is , that I usually found it convenient , to let the little Animals , I meant to imbalme , lie for a little while in ordinary Spirit of Wine , to wash off the looser filth , that is wont to adhere to the Chick , when taken out of the Egg ; and then , having put either the same kind of Spirit , or better upon the same Bird , I suffered it to soak some hours ( perhaps some days , pro renata ) therein , that the Liquor , having drawn as it were what Tincture it could , the Faetus being removed into more pure and well dephlegm 'd Spirit of Wine , might not dis colour it , but leave it almost as limpid , as before it was put in .
In the usefulness of Experimental Philosophy .

