]\gt ; salt gave grm. al.gentic chloride , which corresponds to 49 18 per cent. of metallic silver ; the formula requires per cent. this silver ation it will be seen that this compound is : : isomeric with the ordinary silver pyromucate , III .
" " On some recent Researches in Solar Physics , a Law reguthe time of duration of the Sun-spot Period .
By WARREN DE LA RUE , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , BALFOUR SIEWART , F.R.S. , and BENJAMIN LonwY , F.R.A.S. Received October 12 , 1871 .
1 .
In the short of some recent investigations by Professor Wolf and M. Fritz on sun-spot phenomena , which has been published lately in the of the Royal Society ' .
it was pointed out that some of Wolf 's conclusions were not quite borne out by the sults which we have given in our last paper on Solar Physics in the Philosophical Transactions for 1870 , pp. 389-496 .
A closer inquiry into the cause of this discrepancy has led us to what appears a definite law , conIlecting numerically the two branches of the periodic sun-spot curve , .
the time during which there is a regular diminution of spot-produc- tion , and the time during which there is a constant increase .
It will be well , for the of clearness .
to allude here again , as briefly as possible , to Professor Wolf 's resuIts before stating those at which we have arlived .
2 .
Professor Wolf had previously devoted the greater part of his laborious researches to a precise determination of the mean length of the whole sunspot period , but latterly he has justly recognized the importance of obtaining some knowledge of the average character of the periodic increase and decrease .
Hence he has , as far as he has been able to do so by existing series of observations , and his peculiar and ingenious method of rendering observations made at different times and ditferent observers comparable with each other , endeavoured to investigate more closely the ature of the periodic sun-spot curve by tabulating and graphically representing the monthly means taken during two and a half years before and after the * Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. cxvi .
p. 267 .
1871 .
] on some recent Researches in Solar Physics .
83 minimum , and applying this method to five dislinct minimnm epochs , which he has fixed for the following years:\mdash ; 1844.0 3 .
In a Table he gives their mean numbers , expressing the solar activity , arranged in various columns , and at the following results:\mdash ; ( 1 ) It is shown now , with greater precision than was possible , that the curve of sun.spots ascends with greater rapidity than it descends .
This fact is shown in the subjoined diagram , which it may be of interest to compare with the curves given previously by ourselves in the above-mentioned place .
The zero-point in this diagram corresponds to the minimum of each period ; the abscissae give the time before and after it , .
two and a half years , or thirty months ; the ordinates express the amount of spot-production in numbers of an arbitrary scale .
The two finely dotted curves are intended to show the actual character of a of two periods only , .
those which had their minima in and the strongly dotted curve , however , gives the mean of all periods ( five ) over which the investigation extends .
noting by the number of years during which the curve ascen 84 Messrs. Warren De La Rue , Stewart , and Loewy [ Dec. and presuming that the behaviour is roximately the same the whole period of ll1 years as during the five years investigated , have the proportion whence or the average duration of an ascent is years , that of ( iescent years .
( 3 ) The character of a single period may essentially differ from mean ; but on the whole it appears that a descent responds to a ascent .
Thus the minimum of bebaved very normally , but that of , and still more that of shown in the above diagram , presents a retarded ascent and descent ; on the other hand , in the minimum of , and still more in that of , also shown in the diagram , both ascent and descent are accelerated .
4 .
Finally , Professor Wolf arranged in the manner shown in the follow .
ing Table the successive minima and maxima , in order to arrive at some generalization which might enable him to foretell the general character and length of a future period .
Taking the absolute differences in time of every two successive maxima , and the mean differences of every two alternating minima , he shows that the greatest acceleration of both maximum and minimum happens together .
This result strengthens our own conclusions , to be immediately stated , by new evidence , as it is derived from tions antecedent to the time over which our researches extend .
Differenoes of ences Minima .
alternating Means .
Maxima .
of successive Minima .
Maxima .
1829.5 20 .
7.7 I 1.4 From this Professor Wolf predicts for the present period a very accelerated maximum\mdash ; a prediction which seems likely to be fulfilled .
5 .
Comparing , now , M. Wolf 's results with our own , it must not be overlooked , in judging of the agreement or discrepancy of these two independently oblained sets , that our facts have been derived from the actual measurement and subsequent calculation of the spotted area from day to day since 1833 recorded by Schwabe , Carrington , and the Kew solar photograms , which measurements are as milhonths of the sun 's 1871 .
] on some recent Researches in Solar Physics .
85 visible hemisphere , while the conclusions of M. Wolf are founded on certain " " relative numbers which give the amount serve observed spots on an arbitrary scale , chiefly designed to make observations made at different times and by various observers comparable with eac other .
This will obviously , in addition to the sources of error to which our own method is liable , introduce an amount of uncertainty arising from errors of estimation and the possibility of using for a whole series an erroneous factor of reduction .
Nevertheless we shall find a very close agreement in rious important results ; and this seems a sufficient proof of the great value and reliability of M. Wolf 's .
' relative numbers especially for times prev ous to the commencement of regular sun 6 .
The following is a comparison of the data of periodic epochs , as fixed by ourselves and M. Wolf:\mdash ; 1 .
II .
epochsMinima{ DeLaRue , Stewart , and Loewy RudolfWolf I. Maximaepochs .
' and Loewy It will be seen from this companson that only one appreciable difference occurs , .
in the maximum of 1847 , which M. Wolf fixes nearly one and a quarter years before our date .
The mean length of a period is found by us to be years , which agrees well with M. Wolf 's value , .
Il 1 years .
7 .
We found the following times for the duration of increase of spots during the three periods , and for the corresponding decrease , or for ascent and descent of the graphic curve , beginning with the minimum of 1833:\mdash ; Time of ascent .
Time of descent .
I. . . . . . .
years .
years .
II. . . . . . .
4 .
, 8.44 III. . . . . . . .
, 743 Mean . . . .
, , Professor Wolf gives years and years for the ascent and descent respectively ; and considering that he derived these numbers only from an investigation of a portion of each period , the agreement is indeed surprising , and would by itself suggest that the times of ascent and descent are connected by a definite law .
8 .
M. Wolf has expressed in general terms the following law with reference to this relation of increase and decrease of spots :\mdash ; character of a single period may essent ially differ from the mean behaviour ; but on the whole it appears hat a acceleratedretarded } descent corresponds to a ascent 86 On some recent Researches in Sular Physics .
[ Dec. We , on the other hand , have , by an inspection of our curves vide Phil. Trans. 1870 , p. 393 ) , been induced to make the following remark on the same question:\mdash ; We see that the second curve , which was longer in period as a wholc than either of the other two , manifests this excess in each of its branches , that is to say , its left or ascending branch is larger as a whole than the same branch of the other two curves , and the same takes place for the second 0 descending branch .
On the other hand , the maximum of this curve is not so high as that of either of the other two ; in fuct the curve has the appearance as if it were pressed down from above , and pressed out laterally so as to lose in elevation what it gains in time Although both statements appear to lead up to the same conclusion , ascent and descent are connected by a law , still they differ essentially in this respect , that if represent the three following consecutive events , descent , ascent , descent , Professor Wolf 's law refers to the connexion between A and , while our remark refers to and C. We consider two successive minima as the beginning and end of a single period , while M. Wolf , at least in this particular research , places the minimum within the period , and compares the descent from the preceding maximum with the ascent to the next one .
9 .
We have considered the connexion thus indicated of sufficient importance to apply to it the following test .
If , using the previous notation , a definite relation exists between A and , the ratio of the times which the events occupy in every epoch ought to be approximately constant ; similnrly with respect to and ; and this ratio should not be influenced by the absolute duration of the two successive events .
It is clear that the greater uniformity of these ratios will be a test for their interdependence .
The following is the result of the comparison:\mdash ; .
Professor Wolf 's law : comparison of A and B. Duration of Duration of Periods .
descent ( A ) .
Periods .
ascent ( B ) .
I. to years to years .
Il .
to , , to III .
to , to Ratio Differenoe from mean . . . . . . . .
II. . . . . . .
Mean III. . . . . . .
These differences from the mean are so considerable , that in the } ) resent state of the inquiry a connexion between any descent and the immediately succeeding ascent highly improbable .
A very new and apparently important relation seems .
however , to result from a similar comparison of any and the immediately succeeding descent , or between and C. 1871 .
] On the Telescopic Appearance of Encke 's Comet .
87 .
Comparison of and C. Duration of Duration of Periods .
Cent ( .
Periods . .
I. 1833.92 to years to years .
II .
1843.75 to 4 . .
, 1847.87 to III .
to 1859.69 to 7.43 / Ratio .
Difference from mean .
I. . . . . . .
II. . . . . . .
Mean III. . . . . . .
The agreement of these ratios with each other , and the small differences from the mean of the single ratios , justify us in the mean time , until a greater of periods are before us , to state the connexion between the two branches of the periodic from one minimum to another iu the following more precise terms:\mdash ; be the time of duration of -spot increase from a minimum to a maximum , then 2 1 ( with a probable error of less than ) le the duration of the sun-trpot decrease until the next minimum .
law , together with the fact which we have previously blished , that a longer period shows generally a depressed curve , while a shorter is characterized by great peaks .
points to the conclusion that the of the ultimate causes of sun-spof production , whether these causes be intrasolar or extrasolar , is for every period constaut .
IV .
" " Note on the Telescopic Appearance of Encke 's Colnet By WILLIAnI HUGGINS , JJ .
C.L. , LL. D. , .
ltccoived Dccember 16 , 1871 .
The first three figures which accompany this note represeut the comet on evenings on which its appearance was described in a note on the spectrum of the comet which I had the honour to present to the Royal Society* .
A continuance of bad weather prevented me from later observations of the comet , with the exception of one evening , when figure 4 was obtained under unfavourable circumstances .
Fig. 1 .
November 7 .
\mdash ; From Oct. 17 , when the comet consisted of a nearly round nebulosity without condensation in any part , to Nov. 7 no observations could be obtained .
At the latter date , the remarkable fan-form which distinguishes this appearance of the comet was lready distinctly presented .
The faint light by which the comet was surrounded terminated on the side from the Sun , that from which the tail is ualty projected , in a straight boundary at right angles to the longer axis of the comet .
At the opposite side , that towards the sun , the faint nebulosity expanded and became fainter until it could be no longer traced .
TIIe .
46 .

