]\gt ; an Point for Carbon Dioxide Regard to the Joule-Tho ?
nson By ALFRED W. PORTER , F.R.S. ( Received October 6 , \mdash ; Read November 13 , 1913 .
) In a paper published recently in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' " " On the Thermal Properties of Carbonic Acid at Low Temperatures *Prof . .
Frewen Jenkin and Mr. D. B. Pie , amongst other results , those obtained from a series of measurements of the Joule-Thomson effect for liquid at various temperatures .
These results are tabulated in Table of their paper .
They of particular interest because , within the range of temperatures to which they correspond , they find an inversion point for the Joule-Thomson ect , i.e. , a temperature at which the effect over from being a cooling ( at higher temperatures ) to being a heating .
As they themselves say : experiments on the Joule-Thomson for liquid appear to have been published\ldquo ; pie , and as they admit that it is not easy to what effect the presence of a of air ( which was there ) may have ou their results , any method of them should prove of value .
Such a test can be made by utilising the values of the specific volumes of liquid which they rive in a diagram on p. 78 of paper .
Method of Test .
If the drop of pressure employed may be treated as a differential the JouleThomson effect is en by the equation The inversion point must therefore corresponld to a minimum ullt ) value of Applicat ion of Test .
I have read off from the diagram of specific volumes the values at various pressures and temperatures and calculated the ratios .
These are tabulated below:\mdash ; 'Phil .
Trans 1913 , , No. 499 .
Joule-Tho ?
nson Effect .
Liquid Carbon Dioxide . .
in . .
in . .
in .
All these three sets concur in giving a minimum value of at a temperature not much removed from C. The inyersion point actually found experimentally lies between and , and by plotting their cooling effects one finds it to be at , the high pressure being between 668 and 664 lbs. .
in .
, and the low pressure between433 and 3.60 .
The mean pressure is therefore about .
in .
Thus , the rather remarkable result that an inversion point exists near the point found is confirmed .
The result is remarkable , because it implies that liquid is in this region behaving very nearly like a perfect gas , its volume being nearly proportional to the absolute temperature .
It may be added that .
in .
is about times the critical pressure , and C. is about .
times the critical temperature ; and that these are approximately co-ordinates of an inversion point for any van der Waals liquid .

