]\gt ; IX .
ission of Sunlight through the Earth 's Atmosphere .
CAPT .
W. DE W. ABNEY , R. Received February 17 , \mdash ; Read ] , 1887 .
IT will be in the recollection of the Royal Society that early last year General FESTING and myself brought forward a method of colour photometry , which is described in a paper in the ' Phil. Trans 1886 .
In a postscript , dated June , we added a description of a somewhat modified apparatus in which any variation in the intensity of the light producing the spectrum under measurement was reproduced in the comparison-light .
This was effected by causing a part of the light which passed through the slit of the spectroscope to act as the comparison-light .
For the sake of easy reference the diagram of the modified apparatus is reproduced in this paper .
' The coming through are collected a lens to form a monochromatic image at of near of the second prism .
When is removed the image of the surface of the prism is white , obtained by tilting the lens at an angle as shown .
The reflected rays from fall on , a mirror .
They are ] lected by , and form a white image of the prism , also at F. At is a small electromotor carrying a disc with moveable sectors , so that any amount of incident light may be cut off .
By this arrangement both the comparison-light and the spectrum itself are formed by the light coming through the slits .
S I. of the Sectors .
As the intensity of the comparison-light can only be altered by opening or closing the sectors of the rotating discs , it , essential that their graduation shall be good .
As matter of fact , the circles were carefully divided , but the graduation was only regarded as sufficiently accurate when aperture used was more than , since for very small angles the ratio of any small error in graduation to the aperture used might then not be negligible , which it would be where the aperture was fairly large .
As it almost always happened that coloured light had to be measured , which was very much dimmer than comparison-light diminished by an aperture of in the discs , it became necessary to adopt some other means .
To accomplish this , one of the two following methods was employed : 1st , either the light was absorbed by means of coloured glasses ; or 2nd , a mirror of unsilvered glass was used .
Bot , of these plans enabled readings of coloured light of feeble intensity to be measured with apertures of the rotating discs , commencing at With such modified reflected light it was rarely necessary to close the sectors to less than The glasses used were red , green , blue , or violet , repeated experiment having shown to General FESTING and myself that it makes no difference in the result what colour the comparison-light may be .
In every case the ratio of diminished intensity to the original intensity of the comparison-light was determined , and the measures of the former reduced to the scale of the latter .
It has been almost a surprise to find what great accuracy can be attained in reading by the new method .
It is a matter of the greatest ease to read within 1 per cent. of the mean of a series of observations when the source of illumination is the sun ; the coloured shadows are so steady that the very slightest movement of the slit across the spectrum is at one perceived .
OF SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE EARTH'S S II .
Method of observing with Sunlight .
During the whole of these observations but one instrument was used , so that they compare absolutely with each other .
A silyered surface was used reflect the sunlight on to the condenser , and the image of the central portion of the sun 's disc was focussed on the slit and kept upon it .
It became a matter of importance that the mirror should remain untarnished , as General FESTING and nlyself have found that tarnish materially alters the proportions of the reflected rays .
results we intend to bring forward shortly .
S III .
and Places of Observation .
From November , 1885 , to January , 1887 , at my laboratory at South Kensington , on every possible occasion when my official duties would allow , I have taken observations of the colour composition of sunlight .
But as those before Juue 1886 were taken by our first plan , I have not included them here .
Where my laboratory is situated , in South Kensington , the E.N.E. , E. , and S.E. are quarters in which the densest parts of commercinl London are situated , and consequently , if a wind from any of these quarters prevails , the observations are liable to be marred by smoke ; but to the N.N.E. , N. , N.W. , W. , and S. there is a comparative freedom from any such source of error ; and with a wind blowing from those quarters the sky can be as blue as it is in the most uninhabited part of the country .
This is important to remark , since it may be thought that the neighbourhood of a big city like London is an unsuitable one for making sunlight observations .
fact , a comparison of lesults ined at South Kensington with those obtained in what is termed pure country air , shows that the latter has no perceptible advantage over the former when the wind is in a suitable quarter .
In September , 1886 , I took my apparatus to Switzerland , eventually bringing it to my old observing station on the Riffel , Zermatt , at the height of about 8,000 feet .
On three different days I made observations under the most favourable circumstances , which will be described later on .
In England my observations were usually made at about either 10 , 12 , 2 , or 5 o'clock ; sometimes more than one set was taken on each .
I thought it inadvisable that anyone except myself should take readings , in order to avoid any readings which might be difficult of collation .
S .
Length of required for a Set of Observations .
It may be interesting to note the it takes to complete a whole set of observations .
The way I proceeded was as follows : adjustment of the standard light was so made that in most cases the full aperture , , of the rotating discs allowed light to pass which nearly coincided with the illuminating of the rays of OF SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE .
days on which there was a breeze blowing from a direction , such as I have already indicated ; and , if the sky were partially cloudy , only those days on which the clouds were collected in cumuli , leaving fairly large spaces in the of as dark a blue as obtainable in England .
I would here interpolate that , from the nature of t , he loss of light by transmission through the atmosphere , it would be impossible to find a sky of that -black which is found at high altitudes ; the most that can be expected is a deep blue .
Besides the ordinary meteorological obseryations which were taken at the Museum at South Kensington , I have had the advantage , through the kindness of .
Whipple , and by permission of the Meteorological Council , of obtaining complete records from the Kew for the days I wished to utilise .
As this observatory is but a few miles distant from my place of r clnd , as these records with every accuracy , I have utilised them for my work . .
Atmospheric Conditions at the The morning atmospheric conditions of the Riffel were perfection on each day of my observations , but after 2.80 .
they were unsatisfactory .
In the mornings wind was north , a quarter which is well known to Alpine men as a " " fine\ldquo ; quarter , and the sun rose with a whiteness of surface which I suppose we can never see at low elevations .
The sky was then intensely blue , and improved to a blue-black as the sun gained in altitude .
The distant Oberland ranges of mountains were well defined , no visible haze interyening .
The shadows on the distant Bietschhorn were black , and the snow-capped summits stood out with almost undimmed whiteness .
At Thebes , in Egypt , where I was for three months in 1874-75 , I often remarked upon the depth of shadows of the rocks of the Lybian range , distant some three miles from my station ; but the shadows in the Oberland Alps , lying some twenty miles .
more away , were on this occasion even darker , showing that the haze caused by which is always more or less prevalent in Egypt , was almost absent .
The presumable absence of water particles as well as of dust on my observation at the Riffel made the atmosphere clearer than it was in Egypt eve under the most favourable conditions .
I am not stating this only from recollection , but I have records of the fact in photographs which I took at the time at both places .
This state of the atmosphere lasted , as I have said , till the afternoon , when a battle for supremacy was waged between the north wind and the wind coming over from the Italian side of the range .
The sky then became more or less hazy , and the observations of sunlight were discontinued .
The sky at mid-day , as I have said , was of a blue-black , and in fact , with a pocket spectroscope , the spectrum could barely be seen .
On a previous occasion , when photo- the sky spectrum at the same place , and , as far as can be judged , umder precisely the same conditions , the exposure necessaly to glve to the plate was at least some seven or eight times that required in to obtain similar results , SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE .
with the observations at these two dates , showed that the observed values could be accounted for by the theory that the loss at the station of lower altitud-e was due solely to the suspension of fine particles in the atmosphere .
Other days ' tions in England were compared in the same way , and in very nearly every case the law held good , , of course , varying as the zenith distance of the sun on different days varied .
A comparison was then made inter se of the rent days ' tions , and the above law , as it should , still held good .
Now , on the different days in on which the observations were made , the mean time of observation was known , and consequently the air-thickness .
The air-thicknesses were reduced to a uniform barometric pressure of thirty inches of mercury for one atmosphere .
S IX .
Conditions of Comparison between the Riffel South Kensington .
Evidently the air-thickness at mid-day on the 15th September at the Riffel could not be compared with the air-thicknesses at sea-leyel , as it by no means followed that the atmospheric conditions were the same , i. e. , that the scattering particles assumed by the above theory were as abundant at an alt , itude of 8,000 feet or more as in London at sea-level in a unit volume .
It should be remarked that this does not affect the value of the comparison of the observations made between the two places , the law would equally apply , were the particles per unit volume more or less .
The reduction of the observations showed that the rticles were fewer in number , which is equivalent to observing sunlight through an atmosphere less than unity at ] evel , though the absolute air-thickness was slightly greater than unity .
It is manifest that there is very great utility in making the illuminating value of the spectrum at the Riffel the standard with which to compare the values obtained with greater airthicknesses at sea-level ; since the differences in the proportions of the different transmitted rays are very much accentuated , and any slight errors in observation , which would mask the results when the differences between the observed airthicknesses are small , are eliminated .
S X. Mmimum Loss of Light .
For the purpose of obtaining the minimum loss of light , I have selected observations made on seven days , all of which are compared with the Riffel observations .
The atmospheric conditions were favourable , as will be seen by the meteorological Tables annexed .
These days are divided into two groups of three , leaving one odd day .
The first three days are June 4th , July 5th , and July 21st , when the observations were made with a thickness of about atmosphere .
The second group comprises observations 29th October , 4th November , and 18th November , when equally satisfactory atmospheric conditions existed , with thickness of about atmospheres .
The seventh day is 14th October , when the thickness of atmosphere at the time of OF SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE .
present is not obtainable than the figure in the 4th place of decimals .
The adopted minimum loss of light from scattering is therefore represented by I ' Taking the mean of a large number of days , I find that the ayerage value is 0017 .
S XI .
Lanyley 's Coefficients of Absorption .
Turning to the work which LANGLEY has published in the volume already alluded I find no single instance of coincidence with bove law .
For instance , at page 151 he gives a Table of coefficients of ansmission , which are as follows in the visible spectrum:\mdash ; .
3830 4160 4400 4680 5500 6150 Coefficient of transmission for one atmosphere 449 531 600 636 781 Taking , which agrees nearly with my scale number 47 , und 4400 , which agrees nearly with my scale number 57 , it will be seen that the coefficient of absorption increases nearly by instead of by .
How this wide discrepancy arises , I am at a loss to understand .
There is one point , however , to be remembered , which is in favour of the observations I have recorded , that within certain limits I was quite independent of any small haze which might have ssed between the slit of the collimator and the sun , as the spectrum was compared with one portion of the light coming through the slit , whilst another portion formed the spectrum itself .
Now any small amount of white haze would probably give a general absorption without in any large degree altering the relative proportions of the component rays , whilst the bolometer readings would be affected considerably ; but this would not be sufficient to accoulJt for the systematic and great differences between our two results .
A glance at the curve of illumination of the solar spectrum will show that , as far as 6500 least , there can be no difficulty in making visual measures .
With the width of ] used , the light coming through scale number 47 , a candle had to be placed but 5 inches off the screen on a bright summer day at noon to balance the illuminated shadows ; and , as the colour of the candle-light and that of the -light is very nearly of the same tint , no difficulty could be found in judging of the value of the latter according to the cld method , this gave identical results with the new method adopted , and described at the beginning of this paper .
For that reason I have selected LANGLEY'S coefficients of transmission of to compare with mine , no physiological objections can be brought against such comparison .
The following in Column II .
are the coefficients he tabulates for a stratum of air equivalent to a column of 1 decim .
of mercury for this wave-length:\mdash ; * ' ' Colour PhotometIy ' Phil. Trans 1886 .
OF SUNLIGHT THROUGH TH EARTH'S SXII .
Loss of Light other than by Scattering .
The question arises if there is a loss of light any other source than the scattering by small particles , and an answer is at once furnished by every-day observation .
We know that it is ; that a day diminishes sunlight , though often without materially altering the ratio of the components of the light .
Now light , qud light , I did not measure on all these occasions ; but here the vah1e of the measures taken by means of the candle comes in , assuming that the candle is invariable or only varies slightly .
Mr. VERNON HARCOURT tested a candle such as we nploy , and got from it a result more satisfactory than with a standard candle ; and , as the same brand of candle is always employed , it is believed that the same measurements hold good .
With the instrument unchanged in any respect , the slits having the same width in both cases , an estimation of the total illuminating value of sunlight can be at once ascertained .
It happens on two days which I have selected , viz. , 4th June and 29th October , what I may call the candle-value of the spectrum was ascertained .
Now the illuminating value of the spectrum , taken by means of the candle , as already has been said , is not such a satisfactory method as that I have latterly employed , and on which the foregoing measures have been based ; but an average value for can be readily ascertained .
On the 4th June , about a quarter of an hour later than the time when the printed observations were made , the of the ray at 47 on my scale was 80 , and for the 29th October , also about a quarter of an hour later , it was 62 , or 1 to 775 .
The value for this ray at the adopted times of observation on the above days is and respectively , or 1 to 778 .
This shows that on these two days any loss of light , except that due to scattering , was very small .
On some other days , however , I adopted a different plan , which I had carried out , not for the purpose of applying them to these results , but for estimating the photographic values of skylight and sunlight .
Fortunately , also , these measures were carried on at the Riffel : observations of no small value , as it proves .
S XIII .
Loss Light by nsmission through the Before entering into this more fully , something must be said as to the vahle of total sunlight as derived from my observations , assuming for the present that there 1s.no diminution of light except from the scattering by the small particles .
obtained the coefficient of transmission per atmosphere for each ray , it is sy to construct curves representing the luminosity for every air-thicknesfi , , havmg so constructed them , to find the value of the areas of each .
These areas then represent the values of total illumination which would be observed , were the total light under measurement , as General FESTING and myself have shown in the paper before quoted .
Having found the areas , it is easy to see if any law holds good connecting total light OF SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE EARTH'S ATMOSPHLF , RE .
Sec Z.D. Infinite Forbes ' yalue .
Bouguer 's 1.0153 1.1547 5.5600 35.4955 Astronomers have made various estimations of the value of what they term absorption , and perhaps no astronomical problem has more attention than this one .
The determination of the coefficient of absorption is a necessary preliminary for ascertaining star magnitudes , and thus has an importance peculiarly its own .
Professor LANGLEY , to whose work I shall presently have to refer , made two estimations , one on Etna at 4,000 feet elevation , and another at Mount Whitney , at a still higher altitude .
At both of these localities he found a value for the coefficient of transmission to be 88 , though at the Iatter station he disclaims any great accuracy as likely , which is indeed the case , considering the method he caused to be employed .
The other values obtained were as follows:\mdash ; PRITCHARD at Cairo and at Oxford , 843 and 791 respectively ; ; SEIDEL 794 ; and MULLE 825 : or a mean of 804 at low-level stations .
Professor LANGLEY , assuming from his observations with the bolometer , regards these results as being liable to error .
He says , " " For be it observed in general terms that , since the rays with large coefficie1lts are represented by diminishing geometric progressions , whose common ratio is near unity , these rays will persist , whilst others with small coefficients are early extinguished .
But what we desire now further to point out is that , according as the difference of these coefficients of transmission for the different portions of the light of the same star is greater , so will the error of the result in treating them as equal be larger : consequence so obvious that it is only necessary to make the statement in order to have its truth recognised .
" " Since it has now been demonstrated that the formula ordinarily employed leads to too small results , it might properly be left to those who still employ it to show that their error is negligible ; but this has never been done .
There is possibly an impression that if there were any considerable error its results would become apparent in such observations as have been made all over the world in stellar photoOF SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE EARTH'S ATMoePHERE .
This gives , the coefficient of transmission , .
It may be imagined that the same result would not obtain if the coefficients of absorption for the different rays were other than those obtained from Lord RAYLEIGH'S law .
We have at hand values of the atmospheric absorption for the different rays which Professor LANGLEY has adopted .
They are to be found in the volume to which we have referred .
For the purpose in view , I have assumed that my estimation of the illuminating value for one atmosphere with a coefficient of 001183 holds good , and constructed curves with the coefficients of absorption which he gives , and then taken the areas as giving the value of total illumination at different thicknesses .
The values are , for , 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 atmospheres\mdash ; 1,000 , 657 , 39.3 , 236 , 142 , and the values obtained by using the logarithmic formula are\mdash ; 1009 , 657 , 394 , 237 , and 142 , a sufficiently close agreement to need no comment ; but it should be remarked that , as 5109 , the coefficient of mission nearly , a value far lower than has been found by astronomers .
Finally , I give the results by the above method , which are obtained from the areas of the curves derived from the minimum coefficient of absorption , which are as follows for , 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 atmospheres , viz. :\mdash ; .
Taking 762 and 489 as points on the curve , we get the following numbels ; which gives the coefficient of transmission ; which , it will be seen , is higher than any value assigned to the coeflicient of atmospheric transmission that has been obtained by astronomers ; but to this I shall refer presently .
SXIV .
Observations of Total Light by Colour-blind Persons .
It was interesting to ascertain what would be the effect of the observations of total light by a colour-blind person as regards accuracy of result in comparison with a normal-eyed person .
To ascertain this , it was supposed that the observer had taken the luminosity observations , and the curves for the sunlight were reduced proportionally by the amount by which the normal curve of the electric light was shown to be reduced by this observer\mdash ; an inadmissible assumption , as General FESTINO and myself have shown .
The curves so reduced were plotted out , and the areas taken .
It was found that , when , for , 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 atmospheres the areas were .
BAKERIAN LECTURE , 1886 .
OF SUNLIGHI1 THROUGH THE EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE .
the values from the formula I ' being and , were\mdash ; ; again a sufficiently close value to show that it may be safely used .
S XVI .
Experimental and Optical Tests of the Logarithmic Formula .
A great many tests with turbid water were made to ascertain if the same held good experimentally .
The same photographic preparation as that already referred to was used .
A cell 6 inches long and 4 inches wide was employed , and different portions of the same photographic plate were used for obtaining impressions of the light acting .
The light was allowed to fall through the cell , containing clear water , on an isolated portion of the plate -inch square .
Eight different exposures vere given to various portions of the plate to form a scale of density of deposit .
Exposures were given to the other parts of the same plate to ight from a constant source passin through the 4-inch and the 6-inch thicknesses of clear and turbid water .
The plate was then developed with ferrous oxalate , fixed , and dried .
The density of deposit of each square was next measured by a plan which I have described in the ' Photographic Journal .
' S XVII .
Mode of measuring the Density of Deposit on a Photographic Plate .
From the paper question I have made the following extract:\mdash ; " " The light , whatever it may be , is placed at ; a lens at distance of its equivalent focus , in this case 9 inches .
The negative , , is placed in front of this , and another lens , , throws the image on the screen , in front of which is a rod , , whose shadow is cast by the coming through " " This is the ordinary optical lantern form of apparatus .
At one side , at a convenient distance , I place a mirror , , with the angle so adjusted in azimuth that it reflects the light from A over the patch illuminated by the lens .
This naturally throws another shadow of the rod alongside the first shadow .
If desirable , I can place the other lenses , and , the Iatter forming the image , upon the first ight .
( As a rule , these last two lenses are unnecessary .
) The screen , , may be transparent *This developer was used for convenience , as it gave a black deposit , which was useful for subsequent measures .
OF SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE ATMOSPHERE .
The 6-inch turbid cell was exposed for five minutes through rotating sectors having an aperture of Hence the above values have to be multiplied by and respectively , and we find the relative values of a unit exposure to be\mdash ; Clear cell .
4-inch turbid .
6-inch turbid .
Using the ithmic formula , we get , taking the clear cell and the 6-in .
turbid cell as giving points in the curve , ; and the value for the 4-in .
cell becomes , which is sufficiently close to to show that it holds good .
The optical values were also taken by means of the rotating sectors , and found to be\mdash ; Clear cell .
4-inch turbid water .
6-inch turbid water .
75 .
26 .
15.5 Using the first and last as giving points lying in the curve derived from the logarithmic mula , we get , and find the values to be , and ; a coincidence which is nearly exact .
Now we find that ; and if we compare the value of the optical measure of the areas of the sun curves with the measure of the photographically- derived curves in the same way in the results we have given , it will be found that the factor is very nearly the same as the above .
This close approximation leaves no doubt that the logarithmic formula is sufficiently exact to be employed .
Another example may be quoted , which will , with diagram , still further explain the mode adopted .
An exposure to lamp-light was given to portions of plates in succession by means of the rotating disc , for 15 seconds each exposure .
The apertures were as , and the densities , measured as described , are placed in juxtaposition : \mdash ; Diagram 2 shows this plotted .
Photographs were then taken through a clear-water cell , through .
turbid water , and through .
the same water , the light being admitted through varying apertures of the otating disc .
The results are as follows:\mdash ; CLEAR Cell ; 20 sec. exposure .
in .
turbid ; llnin .
expostlre .
OF SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE .
3-in .
turbid ; 3 .
exposure .
Using the first and last for points in the logarithmic curves , we get the observed values , 795 , and 328 ; calculated , and ; The optical values were next observed , from which when which agrees with the foregoing example .
S XVIII .
The surement of the Photographic and Optical Values of Intensity equivalent to the of Single Ray .
A remarkable deduction now presents itself from the fact that , if we divide and by in the results given by plotting the areas , we find that the results are numbers which are about 105 and 235 , and these represent gths 5570 and respectively ; so that , if we observe the total value of light optically , it is equivalent to observing monochromatic light of 5570 , and if we use bromoiodide of .
for registering the intensity it is equivalent to measuring a ray of 4540 .
We may pply any of the results obtained by astronomers to find the value of ) ) .
With these factors may construct the curves of illumination for any -thickness .
* Professor PnITcHAltD 's maximum value , as far as I have calculated it , is very close to mine , viz. , 860 .
OF THROUGH EARTH'S causes in diminishing the amount of transmitted light .
Lord RAYLEICH has showl that the sizes of the particles have a considerable effect in the scattering , and when we have white mist the scattering of light must be rather than selective .
But it may happen that the general aggregate of particles present may be of sizes which to a greater or less degree refuse to scatter light of wave-lengths not taken between certain limits .
Or the sizes of the particles may be so varied that , whilst one gives a limit of scattering for one certain wave-length , another may give a limit for another , and so on till the final outcome may be to give a loss of not exactly varying as .
This , it appears to me , may be the meaning of this law being obeyed on days which are perceptibly misty , as in some November and December days , and in which the integration nlethod by photography is not in accord with the optical method adopted .
On the whole , I am inclined to think that on fine day , near midday , with pure blue sky , the water particles are present in numbers , and , if dust be fairly absent , that tlJen we get the minimum loss .
At night , when the temperature is diminished , the water vapour probably condenses to give a larger number of small water particles , and hence star observations give a greater value for the coefficient of than I have for the minimum , the mean value they have is not far from the value I obtain when the coefficient is equal to 0019 , which is a value that on several occasions I obtained .
That these water particles have much to say to the coefficient of trans1nission is shown by PRITCHARD'S determinations at Oxford and Cairo respectively ; the former gave a coefficient of 791 and the latter841 .
S .
Deductions from thoe Observations .
It would be premature to deduce too much from the observations taken at the Riffel .
It will be seen that the air-thickness at the Riffel at noon on the day obsel'ved is equivalent to 1 atmosphere at sea-level , and that our equivalent value is really a good deal less than that .
This means that there are at higher altitudes proportionally fewer particles to scatter the light than at sea-level .
I refrain giving the values I obtained near sunset at the place , but the value of absorption I found to be startlingly smaller , so much so that my results must be repeated 1uefore I can vouch for the deductions to be made .
It seems to me that in the Alps we have the most favourable conditions for stndying the } ) heric permeability for light , , in proper seasons of the year , to the absence of dust .
It should be pointed out that the radiations which act on our eyes as light are less aqueous vapour than are those radiations lie in the , and that it by no means follows that , if the district of the Alps is a good locality for observing the one , it is therefore also good for observing the other .
As to I express no opinion .
Probably a spot like Mount Whitney , where LANGLEY observed , be preferable , more particularly as the long waves are much less scatbered than the short waves .
OF SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE EARTH'S OF SUNLIGJIT THROUGH THE EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE .
CAPTAIN W. DE W. ABNEY ON THE TRANSMISSION OF SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE EARTH'S ATMOSPHERE .
OF SUNLIGHT THTOUGH THE LE@H'R ATMOSPHMRL . .
OF SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE EARTH'S

