1892 .
] On some new Reptiles from the Elgin Sandstone .
389 If the calculations had been conducted by rigorous methods , the two columns would have agreed nearly with one another .
I may mention that I have copies of a table of ( 7\#151 ; t up to 90 days ( see p. 304 of the paper here referred to ) which I shall be glad to give to any one actually engaged in the reduction of H. and L.W. observations .
II .
" On some new Reptiles from the Elgin Sandstone .
" By E. T. Newton , F.G.S. Communicated by Sir Archibald Geikie , F.R.S. Received November 28 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) During the last few years a number of Reptilian remains have been obtained from the Elgin Sandstone at Cuttie 's Hillock , near Elgin , which are now in the possession of the Elgin Museum and of the Geological Survey .
These specimens represent at least eight distinct skeletons , seven of which undoubtedly belong to the Dicynodontia , and one is a singular horned Reptile , new to science .
All the remains yet found in this quarry are in the condition of hollow moulds , the bones themselves having entirely disappeared .
In order , therefore , to render the specimens available for study , it was necessary , in the first place , so to display and preserve these cavities that casts might be taken which would reproduce the form of the original bones .
Gutta-percha was found to be the most suitable material for taking these impressions ; and in some instances , especially in the case of the skulls , the casts had to be made in several parts and afterwards joined together .
The first specimen described is named Gordonia Traquairi ; it is the one noticed by Dr. Traquair in 1885 , and referred to the Dicynodontia ; besides the skull , it includes fragmentary portions of other parts of the skeleton , and is contained in a block of sandstone which has been split open so as to divide the skull almost vertically and longitudinally .
The two halves have been so developed that casts made from them exhibit the left side and upper surface , as well as the main parts of the palate and lower jaw .
In general appearance this skull resembles those of Dicynodon and Oudenodon .
The nasal openings are double and directed laterally ; the orbits are large and look somewhat forwards and upwards .
The supra-temporal fossa is large , and bounded above by the prominent parieto-squamosal crest , and below by the wide supra-temporal bar , which extends downwards posteriorly to form the long pedicle for the articulation of the lower jaw .
There is no lower temporal bar .
The maxilla is directed downwards and forwards to end in a small tusk .
Seen from above , the skull is narrow in the inter-orbital and nasal regions , but wide posteriorly across the temporal bars , although the brain-case itself is very vol. Ln .
2d 390 On some new Reptiles from the Elgin Sandstone .
[ Dec. 15 , narrow .
There is a large pineal fossa in the middle of a spindle-shaped area , which area is formed by a pair of parietals posteriorly and a single intercalary bone anteriorly .
The palate is continuous with the base of the skull ; the pterygoids on each side send off a distinct process to the quadrate region .
Towards the front the median part of the united pterygoids arches upwards , and the outer sides descend , forming a deep groove ; from the evidence of other specimens it is clear that the palatines , extending inwards , converted this groove into a tube , and thus formed the posterior nares .
The ramus of the lower jaw is deep , with a large lateral vacuity , and the two rami are completely united at the symphysis .
The back of this skull is not seen , but two other specimens , referable to this same genus , show that the occiput had two post-temporal fossae on each side .
This specimen is distinguished from by the presence of two post-temporal fossae on each side of the occiput , by the small size of the maxillary tusk ; and probably by the elongated spindle-shaped area enclosing the pineal fossa , and also by the slight ossification of the vertebral centra .
A second and much smaller specimen , provisionally referred to 0 .
Traquairi , has , besides the skull , a fore-limb well preserved .
The humerus of this shows the usual Anomodont expansion of its extremities ; its large deltoid crest is angular , and set obliquely to the distal end .
Three other species are referred to the same genus , namely:\#151 ; Gordonia Huxleyana , which is distinguished from G. Traquairi by its proportionately wider and more depressed skull , and by the absence of the concavity between the orbits which is present in the latter species .
The humerus has the distal extremity oblique to the deltoid crest , which was probably rounded and not angular .
G. Dufiana has the skull even wider than in G. and the portion of a humerus found with this skeleton has the two extremities set nearly at right angles to each other .
G. Juddianahas an elongated skull resembling that of G. Traquairi , , but the parietal crests are less developed , the bones of the nasal region are much thickened and overlap the nasal apertures , the small tusk is placed a little further back and points more directly downwards , and the pineal fossa is smaller than in either of the other species .
A second generic form is named Geihia This is a skull nearly allied to Ptychognathus , Owen , but is distinguished by its shorter muzzle and the entire absence of teeth ; the upper part of the skull , between the orbits , is also peculiar , forming a deep valley open anteriorly , with a ridge on each side , the anterior end of which forms a large prominence above and in front of the orbit .
The occiput has 1892 .
] Electromotive Properties of the Skin of the Eel .
391 only one ( the lower ) post-temporal fossa open on each side .
The maxilla is produced into a tooth-like prominence , which occupies a similar position to the tusks of Oordonia ; hut the hone is too thin to have supported a tooth , and in all probability it was covered by a horny beak .
The lower jaw has a strong symphysis , a distinct lateral vacuity , and the oral margin , at the front of each ramus , bears a rugose prominence .
Elginia mirabilis is the name proposed for the skull of a Reptile , which , on account of the extreme development of horns and spines , reminds one of the living Lizards Moloch and The ex- terior of this skull is covered in by bony plates , the only apertures being the pair of nostrils , the orbits , and the pineal fossa .
The surfaces of the bones are deeply pitted , as in Crocodiles and Laby-rinthodonts .
The horns and spines , which vary from ^ in .
to nearly 3 in .
in length , are found upon nearly every bone of the exterior .
The development of the epiotics and the arrangement of the external bones resemble more the Labyrinthodont than the Reptilian type of structure , while the palate , on the other hand , conforms more nearly to the Lacertilian type , and , with the exception that the pterygoids are united in front of the pterygoid vacuity , agrees with the palate of Iguana and Sphenodon .
There are four longitudinal ridges along the palate , some of which seem to have carried teeth .
The oral margin was armed with a pleurodont dentition , there being on each side about twelve teeth with spatulate crowns , laterally compressed and serrated .
With the exception of the smaller number of the teeth , we have here , on a large scale , a repetition of the dentition of Iguana .
This peculiar skull seems to show affinities with both Labyrinthodonts and Lacertilians , and is unlike any living or fossil form ; its nearest , though distant , ally apparently being the from the Karoo Beds of South Africa .
III .
" The Electromotive Properties of the Skin of the Common Eel .
" By E. Waymouth Reid , Professor of Physiology in University College , Dundee .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received November 19 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The assumption that the E.M.F. of the current of rest of the skin of the Fish is entirely due to mucin-metamorphosis , and that it is not possible to attribute it to the presence of glandular elements is negatived , in the case of the Eel , by the absence of any such mucinous change in the superficial epidermic cells and by the presence of abundance of secretoi*y cells throughout the structure .

