1874 .
] On the Circulation of the Blood .
of this fact seem possible\#151 ; either germs preexisting in them have survived the heat , or the organisms have arisen in them abiogenically , These alternatives were subjected to two series of test experiments .
In the first series it was proved directly that there exist in ordinary air and water particles which preserve their germinal activity after being boiled for five minutes in previously sterilized liquids .
The second series of experiments showed that , in the extraordinary increase of resistance to sterilization by heat exhibited by alkalized hav-infusion , the action of the alkali is to heighten the surviving power of preexisting germs , and not to exalt the abiogenic aptitude of the infusion itself .
The issue of the whole inquiry has been to fully confirm the main propositions of the panspermic theory , and to establish the conclusion that Bacteria and Torulce , when they do not proceed from visible parents like themselves , originate from invisible germs floating in the surrounding aerial and aqueous media .
Nevertheless the author is unable to withstand the impression that this general and common mode of origin is possibly supplemented , under rare conditions , by another and an abiogenic mode of origin .
The facts on which this impression rests are comparatively few .
They consist in certain instances of greatly retarded germination of Bacteria in liquids which had been exposed to a boiling heat , and in two very remarkable instances of the growth of fungoid vegetations ( not identical with those usually developed after air infection ) in plugged bulbs which had been boiled in a can of water .
If it should be hereafter established that Bacteria and fungoid vegetations do , under exceptional circumstances , arise abiogenically , this would not overturn the panspermic theory , it would merely limit the universality of its application .
April23 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On some Points connected with the Circulation of the Blood , arrived at from a study of the Sphygmograph-Trace .
" By A. H. Garrod , B.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge ; Prosector to the Zoological Society .
Communicated by Prof. A. B. Garrod , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 12 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) The author commences by giving a table containing a fresh series of 292 On the Circulation of the Blood .
[ Apr. 23 , measurements of the ratio borne by the cardiosystole * to its component beat in the cardiograph-trace .
These tend strongly to substantiate the law previously published by him , viz. that the length of the cardiosystole is constant for any given pulse-rate , and that it varies as the square root of the length of the pulse-beat only\#151 ; being found from the equation xy = 20^x , where .r=the pulse-rate , and 3/ =the ratio borne by the cardiosystole to the whole beat .
A similar series of fresh measurements are given in proof of the law previously published by him , that in the sphygmograph-trace from the radial artery at the wrist the length of the sphygmosystole + is constant for any given pulse-rate , but varies as the cube root of the length of the pulse-beat\#151 ; it being found from the equation 47 where a ?
= the pulse-rate , and y'= the ratio borne by the sphygmosystole to the whole beat .
By measurement of sphygmograph-tracings from the carotid in the neck and the posterior tibial artery at the ankle , it is then shown that the length of the sphygmosystole in those arteries is exactly the same as in the radial ; so that the above-stated law as to the length of the sphygmosystole in the latter applies to them also , and must therefore apply equally to the pulse in the aorta .
Such being the case , by comparing the equation for finding the length of the cardiosystole with that for finding the aortic sphygmosystole , the relation between the duration of the whole cardiac systolic act and the time during which the aortic valve remains open can be estimated with facility ; for by subtracting the shorter sphygmosystole from the longer cardiosystole , a remainder is obtained which can be nothing else than the expression of the time occupied by the ventricle at the commencement of its systole in elevating its internal pressure to that of the blood in the aorta , which must occur before the aortic valve can open up .
This interval is named the " syspasis .
Its length is found to be constant for any given pulse-rate , but to decrease very rapidly with increase in rapidity of the heart 's action , becoming nil when that reaches 170 a minute .
An attempt is made to explain these phenomena .
If the above considerations are correct , certain independently obtained measurements ought , on comparison , to correspond ; for by reference to oue of the author 's papers in the ' Proceedings of the Eoyal Society , ' it is shown that the length of the there-termed second cardio-arterial interval ( which may be called the second cardio-radial interval ) can only represent the time taken by the second or dicrotic pulse-wave in travelling from the aortic valve to the wrist .
This being so , there is every a priori reason in favour of the earlier primary wave taking the same time in going * The cardiosystole is the interval between the commencement of the systole and the closure of the aortic valve in each cardiac revolution .
t The sphygmosystole is the interval between the opening and closing of the aortic valve in each cardiac revolution .
1874 ] On the Minute Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal .
293 the same distance\#151 ; which can be expressed in other terms by saying that the length of the first cardio-radial interval , from which that of the syspasis has been subtracted , ought to be exactly the same as that of the second cardio-radial interval .
That such is the case is proved by the measurement of the lengths of these two intervals independently : and it is found that in all cases they agree three places of decimals , which is great evidence in favour of the accuracy of the methods and arguments employed .
The latter part of the paper is occupied with the description of , and the results obtained by , the employment of a double sphvgmograph , by means of which simultaneous tracings are taken from two arteries at different distances from the heart .
The arteries experimented on are the radial at the wrist and the posterior tibial just behind the ankle , 29 and 52-5 inches respectively from the aortic valves .
From the resulting tracings , the time occupied by the pulse-wave in travelling the difference of distance ( 52-5\#151 ; 29= ) , 23-5 inches , is found and stated to be 0-0012 of a minute in a pulse of 75 a minute ; and it is shown that this varies very little with differences in pulse-rate , as might have been previously expected ; it is also proved that there is an appreciable acceleration the movement of the pulse-wave as it gets further from the heart .
By superposing the simultaneous trace from the wrist on that from the ankle , direct verification is obtained of the earlier proposition\#151 ; that the sphygmosystole at the wrist and that at the ankle are of exactly similar duration .
The peculiarities of the ankle-trace are also referred to .
II .
" Note on the Minute Anatomy of the Alimentary Canal.^ By Herbert Watney , M.A. Cantab .
Communicated by Dr. Sanderson , F.R.S. , Professor of Practical Physiology , University College .
Received March 10 , 1874 .
The following results relating to the anatomy of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal were obtained in the laboratory of the Brown Institution .
The researches were carried out under the direction of Dr. Klein .
1 .
Connective-tissue corpuscles amongst the epithelium.\#151 ; In specimens hardened in chromic acid and alcohol and stained in hsematoxylin , structures are constantly seen among the columnar epithelium of the intestinal tract in many animals ( as monkey , sheep , cat , dog , rat , rabbit ) which belong to the connective tissue .
These are :\#151 ; ( 1 ) a delicate reticulum , which is continuous with that formed by the most superficial layer of connective-tissue corpuscles ( the basement membrane ) ; ( 2 ) round nucleated cells , exactly similar to those of the mucosa .
YOL .
XXII .
n .

