253 Thorianite , a New Mineral from Ceylon .
By* Wyndham R. Dunstan , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and G. S. Blake , A.R.S.M.r Assistant in the Scientific and Technical Department of the Imperial Institute .
( Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1905 .
) The mineral which forms the subject of this paper was collected in Ceylon during the progress of the mineral survey of the island , which was commenced in 1903 under Professor Dunstan 's supervision , with the principal object of determining the extent to which economic minerals , such as graphite , mica , , etc. , occur , and if possible of discovering other minerals of commercial importance .
The minerals collected by Mr. A. K. Coomaraswamy and Mr. James Parsons , the officers entrusted with the survey in Ceylon , are submitted to examination and analysis in the Scientific and Technical Department of the Imperial Institute , and are subsequently subjected to such technical trials as may be necessary in order to ascertain their precise uses and to determine their value .
Among the materials thus received from Ceylon at the Imperial Institute was a small quantity of a heavy black mineral occurring chiefly in small roughly cubical crystals .
This mineral was , in the first instance , furnished to the officers of the mineral survey by Mr. W. D. Holland , who believed it to be uraninite or pitchblende .
He had previously sent specimens to several persons in.this country under this name .
A chemical examination of the small specimen received at the Imperial Institute showed , however , that the mineral contained a large proportion of thorium in the form of the dioxide ( thoria ) and only a small proportion of uranium .
It was evident that this was a new mineral chiefly composed of uncombined thoria ( TI1O2 ) .
Pending the arrival of more material to enable a further examination of its properties to be made , a preliminary account of its composition and properties was communicated by one of us to ' Nature , '* and the name thorianite was suggested for the substance , which contained at least 75 per cent , of thoria .
It was also stated that the mineral was radio-active and that it apparently contained helium , points which would be made the subject of further investigation .
The publication of these results was followed by a communication to * Mature 'f from Sir W. Ramsay , who announced that he had purchased 6 cwt .
* March 30 , 1904 , p. 510 .
t April 7 , 1904 , p. 533 .
VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; A. T 254 Prof. W. R Dunstan and Mr. G. S. Blake [ May 1 of the mineral from Mr. Holland some months previously and had been engaged in its examination .
He was unable to confirm the statement that it contained thoria , but announced that it had furnished considerable quantities of helium .
In a second communication to 'Nature'* Sir W. Ramsay modified the statement he had previously made that the mineral contained practically no thorium .
Further small supplies of the mineral having since been received at the Imperial Institute , we have been enabled to confirm the conclusion first arrived at that the substance is chiefly composed of thoria , and we now desire to bring before the Royal Society an account of this remarkable new mineral for which the name thorianite is appropriate .
A general account of the composition , properties , and uses of thorianite is included in Professor Dunstan 's official ' Reports on the Results of the Mineral Survey in Ceylon , 1903-4 , ' which was issued as a Parliamentary Paper ( Cd .
2341 ) in January , 1905 .
Occurrence of Thorianite .
The following account of the occurrence of the mineral , at first supposed to he " uraninite , " has been given in official reports by Mr. A. K. Coomaraswamy , B.Sc. , the Director of the Mineral Survey in Ceylon .
" Mr. Holland of Dikmukulana has for lcng taken an interest in local mineralogy , amongst other things obtaining specimens of ' nampu ' ( gem-bearing gravels ) from as many localities as possible by offering a small reward to the native ' gemmers ' who bring it .
It is difficult to persuade the native that gems are not required or to get him to reveal the true source of ' nampu .
' These difficulties overcome , the examination of ' nampus ' is an ideal method of gaining a knowledge of heavy minerals of any district .
Early in 1903 Mr. Holland obtained 'uraninite ' amongst his samples and was gradually able to get as much as 6 cwt .
brought to him along with other stuff .
This material was sent to England and sold to Sir W. Ramsay at the rate of'\#163 ; 50 for 6 cwt .
Subsequently Mr. Holland induced a native to show him the source of the material , and finding that some quantity occurred , he took out a prospecting license in the full belief that the locality was Crown land .
" Thorianite , together with a mineral regarded as thorite , and a number of other heavy minerals , is found near Kondurugala , Bambarabotuwa , Province of Sabaragamuwa .
The principal deposit occurs in and near the bed of the upper part of the Kuda Pandi-oya , a small stream , which at first occupying a small northwest and south-east strike valley north of the Hopewell-Hapugastenna bridle path , turns through nearly a right angle and joins the Maha Pandi-oya a little below the same path .
In the bed of the Kuda Pandi-oya , and in a small ' deniya ' swamp just below the swamp , the thorianite is to be obtained in considerable abundance .
It could not be discovered in situ , but it can hardly be doubted that it is derived from some rock outeropping not far distant from the highest part of the little * April 14 , 1904 , p. 559 .
1905 .
] Thorianite , a New Mineral from Ceylon .
stream ; the stream is so small that after a few days of drought ( not very usual in this wetdistrict ) no running water is met with above the camp .
The matrix is no doubt a rock of granitic type similar to those containing zircon , allanite , etc. , which have been met with elsewhere in the Balangoda district , intrusive in the Charnockite series , and classed as belonging to the Balangoda group .
Of these rocks the largest exposure ( a narrow lenticular mass two miles or more in length ) is that of zircon granite on Massena estate ( six miles ) ; * the rock consists of felspars , quartz , biotite , zircon , and ilmenite ; smaller exposures of zircon granite are found on Herimitigala ( eight miles ) and Hopewell estates ( 15 miles ) ; at Denegama bridge , on the road between Balangoda and Belihul-oya , and near the 91st milepost on the same road .
There are also similar granites without accessory minerals exposed\#151 ; e.g. , on the main road about a mile below Balangoda .
The allanite-granite , or pegmatite , is best seen on Lower Denegama estate , where it occurs as a dyke 3 or 4 feet thick , forming a conspicuous ledge in the bed of the stream which runs through that part of the estate .
The rock is composed of felspars ( chiefly orthoclase ) , quartz , biotite , and allanite .
The allanite forms thin tubular idio-morphic and larger irregular crystals , the biggest having a greatest diameter of 3 inches .
Almost identical rocks occur ( 1 ) in the Weweldola on Dikmukulana estate ( 11 miles ) , and ( 2 ) at Weligepola ( 9 miles ) .
It is important to observe that a pegmatite rock , composed mainly of pink orthoclase , quartz , and biotite , with accessory apatite , tourmaline , ilmenite , etc. , has been observed on Ambalawa estate , Gampola , f containing , in addition to the above-named minerals , a few cubic crystals of a black mineral at first regarded as uraninite , but which is almost certainly thorianite .
" To return to the Kondurugala locality , the thorianite is probably derived from a granitic rock with no very large outerop , but in which it occurs in considerable abundance ; perhaps together with the zircon , thorite and ilmenite , which quite possibly , however , occur separately in other rocks of a similar character .
The outerop of this rock could not be discovered owing to the dense jungle and thick soil and landslips ; rock ( mainly decomposed granulite ) is indeed exposed at several points in the beds of the Kuda Pandi-oya and of the small streams joining it , but any search for the outerop of a particular rock in the adjoining jungle could only be expected to succeed at the cost of a large expenditure of time and money , and might even then result in failure .
" There is a large area , including at least the whole of Sabaragamuwa and parts of the central , western , and southern provinces , wherein this or other rare heavy minerals may be looked for .
" It is unlikely that any very extensive deposit of any of these rare heavy minerals will be found , but they may be expected to occur at various points in moderate amounts .
In the Kuda Pandi-oya valley a total of 5 tons might , perhaps , be obtained ; from the Alupola-dola or the Kuda-oya I doubt if half a ton could be profitably extracted , but these estimates are quite uncertain .
The Gampola occurrence is quite without commercial value .
The total amount actually obtained in Bambarabotuwa , so far , does not exceed 15 cwts .
In the * The distances are quoted from Balangoda .
t 'Spolia Zeylanica , ' vol. 1 , part iv , 1904 .
T 2 I : i !
Prof. W. R. Dunstan and Mr. G. S. Blake .
[ May 1 , immediate neighbourhood of Kondurugala the Walaweduwa jungle seems the most favourable district for investigation .
An examination of the Ratganga valley towards the west showed that thorianite is absent there , and that even zircon is very scarce ; but on the north-east one or two heavy minerals not yet determined were actually obtained in the southern part of the Walaweduwa Crown Forest Reserve , and further work on that side of Kondurugala might be useful .
It must be mentioned , however , that the district is a very wet one , the jungles swarming with leeches ; it is also very inaccessible , provisions and camping effects having to be carried fully 20 miles from Balangoda .
Camping in these jungles is absolutely useless except in fine weather ; and in the absence of a detailed map observations cannot be very accurately set down .
" Since August , 1904 , a small deposit of the mineral provisionally identified as thorite was discovered at Durayakanda , South of Gilimale , about six miles from Ratnapura .
" A further amount of 1,200 lb. of thorianite has since been obtained from Bambarabotuwa .
" Description of Thorianite .
Thorianite , as it occurs naturally , is often associated with other minerals , and is not easy to obtain in a completely separate condition .
Dr. J. W. Evans has made a preliminary examination of the crystallographic characters , and intends to further study this subject .
It may be stated now that the mineral occurs in small cube-like crystals up to nearly a centimetre in diameter , the largest , so far seen , measuring rather more than 8 mm. In most specimens the colour is a dull grey or slightly brownish black , but those crystals which have not suffered from attrition in the streams are a jet black with a bright resinous or pitchy lustre .
The difference may be attributed partly to the grinding of the surface , and partly to superficial chemical changes .
The mineral thus differs from uraninite or pitchblende which usually occurs massive , and not obviously crystalline .
The streak furnished by uraninite is brown with a tinge of green .
By transmitted light the mineral is opaque except in thin sections .
The double refraction is very low .
The refractive index probably exceeds 1-8 .
The only faces that are ordinarily developed on the crystals of thorianite are apparently those of the cube .
These have a very uneven surface , especially in specimens that have not suffered much from attrition or alteration .
This character of the surface is mainly the result of the development of a number of small vicinal faces .
In some cases larger faces of similar character are present , meeting at very obtuse re-entrant or salient angles , and reminding one of those seen in some crystals of fluorspar .
In other crystals the faces show a more or less irregular curvature .
1905 .
] Thorianite , a New Mineral from Ceylon .
I The indefinite character of the surface prevents any accurate determination of the angles .
The goniometric readings vary 2 or 3 degrees on either side of 90 degrees , according to the portions of the surface from which the image is reflected , but there is in most cases no satisfactory evidence that the faces as a whole are not virtually at right angles .
Some crystals , however , appear to be distorted and have angles differing from a right angle by as much as 5 degrees or even more .
Occasionally twin crystals are met with and these are of some interest .
They are interpenetrant twins on a face of the octahedron as twinning plane , and one of the diagonals of the cube as twinning axis , exactly similar to those of fluorspar .
As in the case of that mineral the coigns of one cube project as pyramids ou an isosceles triangular base on the face of the other .
Sometimes the compound form is almost completely regular , four edges of each cube meeting at one point or approximately so at both ends of the common diagonal that forms the twinning axis ; at other times the composition is more irregular , and a number of coigns project from the faces of a cube in such a manner that though the faces of one coign are parallel to those of another , they are not in the same plane .
In these forms the twinning axis and plane are the same for all the coigns , even when there is more than one projecting from the same face , the more acute point of the pyramid pointing to the coign of the cube from which the twinning axis emerges .
The diagonal which constitutes this axis has therefore crystallographic characters different from those of the other three diagonals , about which this twinning cannot apparently take place , and the symmetry of the crystal must be considered as rather rhombohedral than cubic , although the angles are apparently right angles .
The same considerations would apply to fluorspar , in which case the essentially rhombohedral character of its symmetry is confirmed by the occurrence of crystals in which only those faces of the four-faced cube or tetrakis hexahedron { 310 } are developed , in which the finite intercepts are of opposite signs .
These faces may be represented by the symbol { 310 } , and are those which bevel the edges that do not pass through the coigns at the ends of the unique diagonal .
They together form a scalenohedron , which is in fact the scalenohedron { 1342 } of the rhombohedral system , assuming the cube as the fundamental rhombohedron.* A similar scalenohedron { 210 } or { 1231 } is repeatedly met with in crystals of halite .
} ' * ' Lehrbuch der reinen und angewandten Krystallographie , ' 1830 , p. 178 , fig. 572 .
t F. von Kobell , " Uber Merkwiirdige Krystalle von Steinsalz , " ' Journal fiir praktische Chemie , ' 1861 , vol. 84 , p. 420 ; K. Andree , " Uber Steinsalz Krystalle von hexagonal-rbomboedrischer Pseudosymmetrie aus Sicilien , " ' Centralb .
fur Mineralogie , ' etc. , 1904 , p. 88 .
Prof. W. K. Dunstan and Mr. G. S. Blake .
[ May 1 , It is interesting to notice that chabazite , which is cubic in general appearance , but really rhombohedral , having its angles differing from right angles by nearly 5 degrees , twins in exactly the same manner as fluorspar and thorianite .
The inference that thorianite is essentially rhombohedral in character is confirmed by the observation that in sections cut perpendicular to the twinning axis , the substance is practically isotropic .
Thorianite shows no definite cleavage , but the mineral is traversed by irregular cracks which appear to follow the direction of the basal plane more frequently than any other .
On fracture , it shows an irregular surface , which is more or less conchoidal on a small scale .
The hardness of the mineral is nearly 7 , which distinguishes it at once from uraninite with a hardness of 5'5 .
Under the blow-pipe thorianite is infusible .
It decrepitates , and if raised to a sufficiently high temperature , is highly incandescent .
It is sometimes associated in rolled fragments with a smooth , yellow-brown , apparently amorphous material , of hardness 6 , which envelopes it or forms a rounded deposit on its faces .
This substance is reddish-yellow in colour when viewed in thin sections by transmitted light .
Zircon also sometimes occurs intergrown with thorianite .
The density of different specimens of thorianite varies between 8 to 9-5 and 9'7 .
The higher numbers probably represent the density of the actual mineral , which in some cases exhibits cavities partially filled with a yellow ochreous material and also inclusions of zircon , one of the minerals generally associated with thorianite , and these associated minerals , especially those which contain thorium , will be investigated if a sufficient quantity can be obtained separated from thorianite .
The mineral is easily powdered and then dissolves readily in strong nitric acid or in diluted sulphuric acid , with evolution of a gas which is chiefly helium .
Thorianite is scarcely attacked by hydrochloric acid .
Thorianite is highly radio-active , and , in fact , may prove to be one of the most radio-active of minerals .
The cause of this radio-activity is referred to below .
Composition of Thorianite .
The methods used in determining the composition of thorianite are founded on those suggested by Glaser* , - Meyer and Marckwaldf , Fresenius and HintzeJ , and BenzS .
* ' Zeits .
Anal. Chem. , ' 1897 , vol. 36 , p. 213 .
t 'Ber .
, ' 1900 , vol. 33 , p. 3003 .
\ * Zeits .
Anal. Chem. , ' vol. 35 , p. 343 .
S ' Zeits .
Ang .
Chem. , ' 1902 , p. 297 .
1905 .
] Thorianite , a New Mineral from Ceylon .
The results are shown in the table on p. 261 , which includes the data obtained from three separate specimens , numbered I , II , and III .
In the estimation of the metals , 2 grammes of the finely powdered mineral were dissolved in about 15 c.c. of nitric acid of specific gravity 1*4 , and after decomposition was complete the solution was diluted and filtered .
The insoluble residues in specimens II and III were very small , and were treated with hydrofluoric acid to estimate silica .
In I the residue chiefly consisted of zircon which was fused with potassium hydrogen sulphate to extract zirconia , and the residue treated as before with hydrofluoric acid to estimate silica .
Except for this associated zircon , no zirconia was found in the mineral .
The acid filtrate from the insoluble residue was diluted to about 300 c.c. and 5 c.c. of hydrochloric acid added .
Hydrogen sulphide was then passed through the liquid to precipitate lead which was finally weighed as sulphate .
The filtrate was boiled to remove hydrogen sulphide , and oxidation of the last traces of this substance effected with bromine water .
To the hot acid solution , amounting to about 350 c.c. , excess of ammonium oxalate was added , and the precipitate of oxalates of thorium and cerium , etc. , allowed to settle overnight and then filtered .
The filtrate was evaporated to dryness and treated with nitric acid to destroy oxalic acid , and diluted with water .
The calcium and magnesium were separated from other metals by precipitating the latter with ammonia and ammonium chloride .
This precipitate was dissolved in hydrochloric acid , excess of acid neutralised , and the solution diluted to 500 c.c. A few drops of solution of sodium sulphite were added , and the liquid boiled to precipitate any titanic acid .
No titanium was , however , present .
The liquid was evaporated , and the iron oxidised with a few drops of nitric acid .
The liquid was neutralised with a few drops of ammonia .
, and finally excess of ammonium carbonate added .
The carbonates first precipitated were re-dissolved on further addition of the reagents , showing the absence of alumina .
The iron was separated as sulphide .
The filtrate was boiled , acidified with hydrochloric acid , and again boiled to remove all the carbon dioxide .
The uranium in solution was precipitated with ammonia , and finally weighed as uranoso-uranic oxide U3O8 .
The precipitate containing the oxalates of thorium and cerium , etc. , was dried , and the oxalates were then decomposed by nitric acid , and the metals obtained in solution as nitrates .
After diluting to 250 c.c. , sodium thiosulphate was added to the slightly acid boiling liquid till no further precipitate of thorium salt was obtained .
The liquid was boiled for a short time , the precipitate filtered off and dissolved in hydrochloric acid , and the \#166 ; 260 Prof. W. R. Dunstan and Mr. G. S. Blake .
[ May 1 , operation twice repeated to completely separate the cerium .
To the united filtrates ammonia was added , and the precipitate of hydroxides of the cerium , etc. , containing a little thorium and any yttrium present , was dissolved in hydrochloric acid , and the trace of thorium precipitated as above described from a small bulk of liquid .
The thorium precipitates were dissolved in hydrochloric acid , and the thorium re-precipitated as hydroxide and finally weighed as the dioxide Th02 .
The filtrate from precipitation of the cerium earths with ammonia contains lime if such were present in the original mineral .
This was separated as oxalate and weighed as oxide .
Determinations of the equivalent of thorium made with the precipitated dioxide obtained in the course of the analysis of the third specimen ( see p. 261 ) by conversion into the sulphate gave 57'25 , corresponding with an atomic weight of 229 .
The accepted atomic weight of thorium , relative to hydrogen taken as 1 , is 230-8 .
The solution from which thorium had been thus removed , containing cerium and the associated earths , including any yttrium , was treated with ammonia ; the precipitate dissolved in dilute sulphuric acid , and the solution , after neutralisation , saturated with potassium sulphate .
No yttrium was found in the filtrate by dilution and addition of ammonia .
The double sulphates of potassium with cerium , and of the associated metals lanthanum and didydium , were warmed with ammonia solution , by which means the earths were obtained as hydroxides .
These were dissolved in hydrochloric acid and re-precipitated by potash solution .
The hydroxides were washed by decantation , a little potash solution added , and chlorine gas passed until the liquid was saturated .
The lemon-coloured hydrated ceric oxide was filtered off , re-dissolved , and re-precipitated as hydroxide , and the cerium weighed as the dioxide Ce02 .
The filtrate containing lanthanum and so-called didymium was acidified with hydrochloric acid , boiled to remove chlorine , and the earths precipitated with ammonia and weighed as the oxides .
The uranous oxide ( U02 ) was separately estimated by Hillebrand 's method as follows:\#151 ; One or 2 grammes of finely powdered mineral were introduced into a stout tube together with 20 to 30 c.c. of dilute sulphuric acid , consisting of one part of acid to five parts of water .
The air was then displaced by carbon dioxide , the tube sealed off , and then heated to 180 ' C. for several hours till decomposition was complete .
The solution obtained was diluted with recently boiled \#187 ; water , and the uranous sulphate titrated with potassium permanganate .
The method adopted for the determination of helium and associated gases consisted in decomposing the mineral by means of dilute sulphuric acid Thorianite , a New Mineral from Ceylon .
1905 .
] consisting of one part of acid to five parts of water.* Ten grammes of the powdered mineral were used , and the gas collected in a gas burette over mercury with the usual precautions .
The mixture was heated at 100 ' .
Decomposition at this temperature was almost complete in one day , hut the experiment was allowed to continue for two days to ensure the liberation of all the gas .
The gas collected amounted to 105 c.c. at standard temperature and pressure , which corresponds to 10*5 c.c. of gas , chiefly helium , from one gramme of thorianite .
Analyses of Thorianite .
I. II .
III .
Per cent. Per cent. Per cent. Soluble in nitric acid\#151 ; Thorium dioxide 72*24 76*22 78*86 Uranium " 11*19 12*33 6*03 Uranium trioxide \#151 ; \#151 ; 9*07 Cerium dioxide 6*39 1 8*04 1*02 Lanthanum and didymium oxides ... 0*51 J Yttrium oxide \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; Lead " 2*25 2*87 2*59 Ferric " 1*92 0*35 0*46 Calcium " \#151 ; \#151 ; 1*13 Helium \#151 ; \#151 ; .
0*39f Titanium dioxide \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; Phosphoric oxide \#151 ; \#151 ; trace Insoluble in nitric acid\#151 ; Zirconium oxide 3*68 \#151 ; J\gt ; 0*20 Silica 1*34 0*12 Eesidue from fusion with potassium hydrogen sulphate 0*41 \#151 ; \#151 ; Of the three specimens of thorianite analysed the first was too small to admit of any treatment to separate associated minerals , and proved to contain associated zircon .
Specimens II and III were separated as far as possible from extraneous minerals , and represent a nearer approach to the single mineral .
The highest amount of thoria yet found is nearly 79 per cent. , which shows that thorianite is the richest mineral in thoria at present known .
* Hillebrand , loc. cit. t If the whole of the gas is calculated as helium .
262 Prof. W. R. Dunstan and Mr. 0 .
S. Blake .
[ May 1 , Constitution of Thorianite .
From the analytical results , it will be seen that the constituents other than thoria show , as was to be expected in a mineral of this character , some variation .
In Nos. I and II cerium dioxide ocours up to the extent of 8 per cent. , while in No. Ill it becomes almost insignificant .
The uranium appears to occur in the condition of both uranous and uranic oxides .
It is , however , intended to further investigate this question , since the presence of uranic ochre on the surface of some specimens would indicate that the mineral may have suffered considerable superficial oxidation , and that crystals may he found containing a much smaller proportion of uranic oxide .
Of the other oxides present , zirconia in the insoluble residue may be safely classed as an impurity arising from zircons which are invariably found with thorianite , sometimes included within the crystalline thorianite .
Silica and ferric oxide may be neglected as contaminations .
Leaving out of consideration for the present the oxides of lead and calcium ( not a constant constituent ) the mineral consists of a large amount of oxide of thorium and a small amount of oxides of uranium , with a smaller and variable amount of cerium oxide , the precise significance of which is at present doubtful .
In the original condition the uranium may have existed entirely as dioxide .
There can be little doubt that the dioxides of thorium and uranium , as well as certain of the salts of these metals , are isomorphous .
In nature these oxides have not been found in a pure crystalline state , but crystals of each have been obtained artificially .
Crystalline thoria was obtained by Troost and Aouvrard* whilst studying the relation between the double phosphate of potassium and thorium and that of potassium and zirconium .
The phosphates were first obtained by adding to fused potassium orthophosphate , thoria , thorium phosphate or anhydrous thorium chloride .
On raising the double phosphate to such a temperature that both alkali and phosphoric acid were volatilised , thoria was obtained in crystals belonging to the cubic system ; the cuboctahedron and rhombic dodecahedron being the forms observed . !
Again , uranium oxide was first obtained in an octahedral form by Wohler by heating a mixture of uranium oxychloride with sodium chloride and ammonium chloride . !
Later , Hillebrand repeated the experiment , and obtained practically pure uranium dioxide in black octahedral crystals of a specific gravity of about 11.S The hydrate of thorium sulphate Th ( SO^OILO is also , according to * * * S * ' Comptes Rendiis , * 1886 , vol. 102 , p. 1422 .
t Loc .
tit .
J ; Liebig 's Annalen , ' 1842 , vol. 41 , p. 345 .
S ' Zeitschrift fiir Anorg .
Chemie , ' 1893 , vol. 3 , p. 243 .
Thorianite , a New Mineral from Ceylon .
1905 .
] Kammelsberg , * monoclinic in crystalline form and isomorphous with the corresponding hydrate of the uranium salt U(S04)29H20 .
Our analyses of different specimens of thorianite are hardly sufficiently numerous to enable us to conclude that the oxides of thorium and uranium bear a definite relation to one another in the mineral .
It seems probable that the mineral belongs to the class of substances known as isomorphous mixtures of which the simple form would be represented by the formula X02 where X represents a tetravalent element the dioxide of which crystallises in the isometric system the extremes of which would be U02 and Th02 .
Thorianite is evidently closely related to uraninite ( pitchblende ) in constitution .
The crystalline form of the two minerals is the same and the constituents of both are similar .
Hillebrand 's analysis of the Branchville varieties of uraninite , which were stated to be nearly unoxidised , furnished 72'25 per cent , of uranium dioxide and only 13'27 of uranium trioxide.f Uranium dioxide very readily oxidises on exposure to air , and it was only by completely excluding the air that Hillebrand succeeded in obtaining the pure oxide artificially .
It is , therefore , certain that the natural varieties of the oxide so far examined must have suffered alteration and oxidation , and that originally their principal constituent was uranium dioxide .
Most of the massive varieties of uraninite are very impure , and this may account in a large measure for the presence of many oxides in this mineral which appear to have very little in common with the principal constituents .
Lead oxide is apparently generally present in thorianite .
It occurs in small amount and may be combined as uranate .
In the case of thorianite the crystallographic examination has shown that the mineral has crystallised with difficulty , and that it is more or less contaminated with those minerals which crystallised at the same time , as well as with impurities contained in the magma from which crystallisation occurred .
As far as the present investigation has gone it appears probable that thorianite is isomorphous with uraninite , and that in the thorianite of Ceylon some of the thoria is replaced by the corresponding uranium oxide .
The evidence , however , is not sufficient to show whether this is a case of isomorphous mixture , as seems probable , or of true chemical replacement .
It is obvious that the mineral is one of exceptional interest , and that it presents many problems for investigation , among them being the question of the possible occurrence of small quantities of hitherto little known or unknown elements.^ The material furnishes a satisfactory source of pure * ' Berl .
Acad. Ber .
, 1886 , p. 603 .
t ' Amer .
Joum .
Sci. , ' 1890 , vol. 40 , p. 384 .
+ Since this was written Hahn , in a communication to the Royal Society ( ' Roy .
Soc. 264 Prof. W. R. Dunstan and Mr. G. S. Blake .
[ May 1 , thoria , a fact which is of commercial importance as well as of scientific interest .
We have shown that thorianite is chiefly composed of thoria , as at present understood .
Baskerville believes that he has obtained evidence that the substance at present known as thorium is composed of more than one element , and that he has separated thoria into three oxides differing in density , and one of which is little , if at all , radio-active .
These conclusions have , however , been called in question by Meyer and Gompertz , * who assert that thoria shows no evidence of being other than a single substance .
Determination of the rate of decay of the radio-activity of thorianite made in Lord Blythswood 's Laboratory by Mr. H. S. Allen have shown that this property of the mineral is probably consistent with the thorium , uranium , and small amount of radium present .
The radio-activity of the mineral was measured in a parallel plate apparatus , using sufficient material to entirely cover the lower plate .
The observed rate of leak under these conditions was 6900 divisions per minute equivalent to a current through the apparatus of approximately 5*5 x 10"11 amperes .
Thorianite is , therefore , somewhat less active than some of the specimens of pitchblende examined by Madame Curie , whose results with this mineral are as follows:\#151 ; Pitchblende from Johanngeorgenstadt ... 8'3 x 10~n amperes " " Joachimsthal ... ... ... .
7*0 x 10_u " " " Pzibram ... ... ... ... ... .
6*5 x 10_n " " " Cornwall ... ... ... ... . .
1*6 x 10-11 " A series of measurements of the rate of decay of activity of the emanation from thorianite have been made ; 16*5 grammes of the mineral were heated in a hard-glass tube , and the.emanation , previously dried over phosphorus pentoxide , collected in the testing vessel .
It was set aside for 6 hours in order to allow the thorium emanation to decay , and then measurements of the activity were made daily .
The results showed that during the first four days the rate of decay was greater than that observed by Rutherford for radium emanation , but that after this period the rate of decay of activity became identical with that of radium emanation .
It is probable that the greater rate of decay during the first four days was due to the presence of thorium " excited activity " which , Proc. , ' 1905 ) has announced the existence in thorianite of a small quantity of a new element , which produces the " thorium emanation .
" This was separated from the 6 cwt .
of the mineral referred to earlier in this paper .
It must not be overlooked that the consignment , though apparently worked up as a whole , .
was doubtless a mixture containing several other minerals than thorianite .
* 'Ber .
, ' 1905 , vol. 3 , p. 187 .
Thorianite , a New Mineral from Ceylon .
1905 .
] according to Rutherford , decays to half value in the course of 11 hours , whereas the radium emanation falls to half value only in about 3-7 days .
These results clearly indicate the presence of radium emanation in the " total emanation " from thorianite , and that consequently this mineral must contain radium .
Commercial Value of Thorianile .
Owing to the increasing employment of thoria for the manufacture of incandescent gas mantles , the demand for minerals containing thorium has largely increased .
The demand is chiefly met from the deposits of sand , containing a small percentage of monazite ( phosphate of the cerium metals and thorium ) which occur in Brazil and in North Carolina .
Owing to the foreign control of these sands , British manufacturers have experienced difficulty in manufacturing thorium compounds .
Thorianite is , we believe , the first deposit of a thorium mineral to he discovered on British territory .
Consignments of thorianite from Ceylon , containing about 70 per cent , of thoria , have been recently sold in this country at the rate of \#163 ; 1500 per ton .
For the manufacture of thorium compounds thorianite possesses the advantage , not shared by any known thorium mineral , of containing uncombined thoria , soluble in nitric acid with formation of thorium nitrate .

