IV .
Account of aBOO K. ~ ~ Lycophronis Chalcidensis Alexandra , Cum Graecis Isacii Tzetzis Commentariis .
Accedunt Versiones , Variantes Lectiones , Emendationes , Annotationes &amp; Indices Necessarii .
Cura &amp; opera Johannis Potteri , A. M. &amp; Collegii Lincolniensis Socii .
Oxonii , e Theatro Sheldoniano , An. Dom .
1697 .
L Ycophron 's Cassandra is the only work that remains to us , out of the many Volumes of that Author : It is a Poem the most intricate and obscure of any , that has ever appeared in the Greek , or other Languages ; but whose usefulness does sufficiently compensate for its Obscurity .
The Design is thus ; Cassandra , the Daughter of Priamus King of Troy , seeing her Brother Paris put to Sea , with an intent to fetch Helena from Greece , and being before instructed by Apollo in the Art of Divination , foretells the manifold Calamities , which that Voyage brought upon her Native Country ; and having premis 'd an account of the former taking of Troy by Hercules , she enumerates all the Miseries , which the Grecians and Trojans underwent during the long Ten Years Siege of that City , and at the Destruction of it , with the various Fortunes that befel them afterwards , and the numerous Colonies planted by them in Italy , Sicily , and other parts of the World .
Then having related from their first Original the Causes of the continual Quarrels between Europe and Asia , and described the memorable Occurrences in Xerxes 's Famous Invasion upon Greece , she draws out the Thread of her Discourse as far as the Successors of Alexander the Great , in a most Natural , yet Artful Method .
All these Narrations are embellished with many pleasant Episodes , and so great variety of Poetical Histories , that by a thorough understanding of this Single Poem , the Reader will be furnished with a competent knowledge of the greatest part of the Ancient Mythology : And the Words and Phrases , in which all these are expressed , are such , that whoever has made himself Master of them , can scarce be at a loss in any , the most obscure Passages of other Authors , especially the Poets : So that a careful perusal of this Book , will be a considerable step to a perfect understanding of the Greek Language .
The present Edition is not only rendered more beautiful by a larger and better Character , but seems to be far more Correct and Complete than any we have yet had of this Author ; for it contains , beside a great many accessions , whatever is of Use , or Value in any of the former Impressions .
The Text is Corrected as well by the help of the former Printed Editions , as of two Ancient Manuscript Copies in the Bodleian Library , which have been carefully Collated .
On one side of it is placed the verbal Translation of Canterus ; beneath are inserted the various lections faithfully collected out of the foremention 'd Copies , which as they may be of use to the Accurate and Critical understanding of any Ancient Author , so are more especially required here , where there are so many obscure passages , wherein Learned Men either do not agree , or are wholly at a loss .
Beneath these you have the large Greek Commentaries of Isaac Tzetzes , which were heretofore very imperfect , and in many places so maimed and corrupted , that they cou 'd not be understood ; but are now , by the assistance of Manuscripts , corrected and enlarged : and at the bottom of every Page is inserted a Brief Account of all the Additions , and principal Emendations made therein .
At the end of these is annexed the excellent Translation of Joseph Scaliger , in Iambick Verses , wherein he has not only faithfully expressed the Sense and Meaning , but the Diction and Stile of the Author .
After this follow the Annotations of Canterus and Meursius , more Correctly Printed than hitherto they have been .
To these , beside necessary Indexes which all the former Editions have wanted , the Editor has added his own Commentaries , wherein several obscure Verses in Lycophron , never thoroughly understood before , are explained ; many dark in other Authors are cleared , Corrected and rendered intelligible ; and Customs of the Ancient Greeks , absolutely necessary for the Understanding of their Authors , are brought to light .

