390 Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell on Connective Bowerbank ( J. S. ) , F.B.S. On the Brain and a portion of the Nervous System of Pediculuscapitis .
8vo .
London 1873 .
The Author .
Burmeister ( H. ) Los Caballos Fosiles de la Pampa Argentina , folio .
Buenos Aires 1875 .
The Author .
Fitzgerald ( B. D. ) Australian Orchids .
Part 2 .
folio .
Sydney , The Author .
Gilbert ( Dr. ) Systeme authentique des Calculs Physico-Chimiques .
Paris 1876 .
The Author .
M'Lachlan ( B. ) A Monographic Bevision and Synopsis of the Tricho-ptera of the European Fauna .
Part 5 .
8vo .
London 1876 .
The Author .
Pickering ( C. ) The Geographical Distribution of Animals and Plants .
Part 2 .
Plants in their Wild State .
4to .
Salem 1876 .
The Author .
Smith ( Col. J. T. ) , F.B.S. Silver and the Indian Exchanges , a remedy for its depreciation .
8vo .
London 1876 .
The Author .
Wheeler ( G. M. ) Annual Beport upon the Geographical Explorations and Surveys west of the 100th Meridian , in California , Nevada , Nebraska , Utah , Arizona , Colorada , \amp ; c. 8vo .
Washington 1875 .
The Author .
" On the Behaviour of the Fixed Elements of the Connective Tissue of the Tongue in Inflammation .
" By George F. Dowdeswell , B.A. Cantab .
Communicated by J. Burdon Sanderson , F.B.S. , Professor of Physiology in University College .
Received June 14 , 1876* .
[ Plate 8 .
] The connective tissue of the tongue of Batrachians was first studied , with reference to the changes which it undergoes in inflammation , by Prof. Cohnheim in 1869 f. The animal employed by him was the ordinary edible frog { Liana esculenta ) .
His mode of preparation was as follows:\#151 ; A plate of glass about 3 " by 5 " was first prepared , having a smaller oblong plate , measuring 1 " by 0"f7 , cemented to it with Canada balsam at one end .
This was surrounded by a cork ring border of the same thickness .
On this plate the body of the frog ( previously cura-rized ) was placed , resting on its back , in such a position that the tongue could be readily extended over the oblong plate with the aid of * Read June 15 , 1876 .
See ante , p. 272 .
t Cohnheim , " Ueber das Verhalten der fixen Pindegewebskorperchen bei der Ent-zundung , " Virchow 's ' Archiv , ' vol. xlv .
p. 333 .
Tissue of the Tongue in Inflammation .
pins stuck into the cork ring .
As thus displayed , the smooth surface of the organ of course rested on the glass , the papillary surface looking upwards .
To expose the submucous tissue , Cohnheim found it necessary to divide the mucous membrane to the extent of an eighth of an inch ; by doing so he was able to obtain a sufficient surface for microscopical examination , in which , if care was taken to keep it constantly moist with serum and to avoid undue stretching , the ^circulation could be observed for many hours .
Although , as compared with the one to be immediately described , the method was imperfect , it was much superior to any which had been employed before for the study of the textural changes which are associated with the process of inflammation .
In the stratum of tissue thus exposed , the objects which first attract attention are , it need scarcely be said , the arteries , veins , and capillaries , and the rapidly circulating blood .
In addition to these , various fibrous structures present themselves , namely striped muscular fibres , single or in groups , some entire , others broken ; nerves , each consisting of a variable number of dark-bordered nerve-fibres , bundles of white fibrous tissue , and very numerous single fibrils .
In the spaces between these structures a number of bodies are seen scattered without apparent regularity in the fine transparent membrane of areolar tissue .
With reference to these bodies , which were first described by Cohnheim , and constituted the principal subject of the paper now referred to , he remarks that although they differ considerably in form and appearance from the fixed elements of areolar tissue elsewhere , they can only be regarded as " connective-tissue corpuscles .
" Cohnheim found that when this tissue , immediately after having been exposed in the manner above described , was observed continuously for many hours under the microscope , the circulation became much accelerated , and the vessels ( veins and arteries ) became dilated .
Soon the dilatation of the arteries diminished , while the motion of the blood became slower , especially in the veins of which the diameter was still larger than in the natural state .
In a short time the colourless corpuscles began to hug the walls of the veins , and soon after emigration set in with great vigour .
As this went on , it was seen that in numerous capillaries stasis was either commencing or complete , a state of things which rapidly led to diapedesis , affecting both capillaries and veins .
These facts having been ascertained , and being moreover in complete accordance with what Cohnheim had himself described in inflamed parts elsewhere , it remained to inquire what part the fixed elements played in the active changes going on around them .
Tor our present purposd* it is sufficient to state that Cohnheim concluded that they took no part whatever in those changes ; and he used this fact in support of his genei'al position , that fixed elements of tissues do not participate in any inflammatory processes of which those tissues may be the seat .
But since 1868 , as is well known , Cohnheim 's conclusions on this sub392 Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell the Connective ject have been warmly disputed .
On the one hand the pathological histologists of the Vienna School have maintained , on the basis of much laborious work done by Prof. Strieker and his pupils , the previously received belief as to the textural origin of those young cells the presence of which is the most essential characteristic of inflammation .
On the other hand Cohnheim , supported by Axel Key and many others , has strengthened his view of the case by extending the research in new directions .
As regards the tongue of the frog , Prof. Strieker has published observations in which , following Cohnheim 's own method , he arrived at opposite conclusions .
I have thought it desirable to publish the observations here recorded , because the methods now adopted appear preferable to any previously employed , the tongue of the toad being much better adapted for the study of the tissues than that of the frog .
The organ , when protruded , extends nearly an inch out of the mouth ; and in this state exhibits near the mouth the form of a flattened cylinder , of which the cross section is oval .
Towards its extremity it becomes flattened , and exhibits a tendency to bifurcation , ending in two short tips , often called cornua .
Of its two principal surfaces , of which one is beset with papillae , the other smooth , the former ( supposing the animal to be in the supine position ) is undermost .
But when the organ is retracted , andj occupies its usual position in the mouth , it is bent back in such a way that the papillated surface looks towards the palate .
The arrangement and anatomical relations of the structures which constitute the substance of the tongue may be most readily understood by the examination of transverse sections , In any vertical section of a properly hardened tongue across the thicker part of the organ it is seen that immediately underneath the mucous membrane of the smooth surface there is a large cavity , which , from its lining of flat cells , the anatomist at once recognizes as a lymph-sac .
The floor of this lymph-sac is formed towards the middle line by a mass of muscular fibres , of which the direction is longitudinal , and from which the liquid contents are only separated by the cellular lining .
The under surface of the muscular mass is also covered by cells which form the lining of a second lymphatic cavity , which is in a similar relation to the papillated mucous membrane to that in which the principal lymph-sac stands to the mucous membrane of the smooth surface .
There is , however , between the lymphatic cavity and the mucous tissue a superficial stratum of muscular fibres .
In fresh preparations it can be easily made out that the deeper muscular fibres , which are nearest the attachment of the tongue , form a single bundle on either side of the middle line , spread out towards the double tip in finger-like processes having spaces between them .
Through these spaces the two lymphatic sacs freely communicate , so that when liquid is injected into either sac , the other also becomes distended .
Tissue of the Tongue in Inflammation .
393 In my method of observation I followed in the main that employed by Prof. Cohnheim .
That method was , however , modified in the following important particulars:\#151 ; 1 .
The toad being preferred to the frog on the grounds already stated , I found it necessary to employ very much larger quantities of curare .
The dose used by Cohnheim did not exceed 0-001 grain , a quantity which is well known to be sufficient for the frog .
But in the toad I found that 0-004 grain was required , and that it was necessary to repeat the injection every 36 or 48 hours during the course of each observation .
2 .
The support on which the body of the animal Outline sketch of the cork support used in all the experiments ( actual -size ) .
The dotted lines represent the outline of the tongue and head .
rested was not of glass , but of cork .
On either side of it is a block of cork , which answers the purpose of Cohnheim 's cork border .
The small oblong plate of glass used by him is dispensed with .
3 .
In order to prepare the tongue for observation , it is necessary first to distend the lymph-sac by injecting into it f-per-cent .
solution of common salt with the aid of a hypodermic syringe , and secondly to divide the mucous membrane which constitutes its roof with fine scissors .
This having been accomplished , the cut edges are drawn aside so as to expose the surface of the septum of muscular fibres which divides the lymph-sac into two parts .
A well-lighted field is thus obtained , in which the most delicate details of structure can be satisfactorily observed , even under high powers .
The injury thus inflicted on the organ is so trifling that , provided that care has been taken to guard against the production of haemorrhage , there is at first no evidence of any pathological disturbance .
Soon , however , the changes ( of which an account has been already given ) begin to present themselves , the several phenomena following each other in the order in which they were originally described by Prof. Cohnheim .
I would only remark that the vascular changes can be studied very advantageously , and in particular that the process of emigration displays itself before the observer with wonderful beauty and distinctness .
As in my observations I confined myself entirely to the behaviour of the fixed elements of the tissue , I shall say nothing more of the vascular Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell the Connective changes , the interest of which to me consisted principally in that their presence afforded the evidence that the part observed was in a state of active inflammation .
The question I had to answer was , whether or not this state , even when prolonged , is attended with any change whatever in the anatomical characteristics of the preexisting elements .
For this purpose more than a dozen series of observations were made on as many different animals , each series being continued for several days .
At the beginning of each series a group of connective-tissue corpuscles , such as the one represented in Plate 8 .
figs. 3 and 4 , was selected and ( with the vessels and other structures in relation with it ) accurately drawn with the aid of the camera lucida .
The preparation was then removed from the microscope and placed in a vessel in which the air was kept saturated with aqueous vapour .
The next day , after removing the layer of exuded colourless corpuscles ( pus ) which covered the exposed surface of the lymph-sac , by directing upon it a gentle stream of salt solution , the outlines of the group of connective tissue were again traced with the aid of the camera .
In this way several daily observations were taken in respect of each animal .
It usually happened that on the fourth or fifth day the circulation became impaired or ceased ; but in one instance it continued in vigour as long as nine days , during the whole of which period the same group of corpuscles was kept from time to time under observation .
The result may be stated in a single line .
So long as the circulation continued , " no change whatever took place in the connective-tissue corpuscles , either as regards form or appearance , " notwithstanding that the tissue of which they formed part was beset with innumerable emigrant colourless corpuscles , i. e. ( to use ordinary language ) was infiltrated with pus .
In order that the reader may be put in possession of certain facts which have not been sufficiently noticed in the summary I have now given of the results of my investigation , I will add a few short notes relating to particular experiments .
The first two experiments differed from the others in this respect , that immediately after beginning my observations I touched the observed part with a drop of water acidulated with hydrochloric acid ( 1 part of strong acid to 100 of water ) .
The vascular changes of the early stage exhibited themselves in intensity , and resulted in a very abundant emigration of leucocytes ; but as the observation was only continued for two days , the results were of less value as regards the special question under investigation .
The fixed corpuscles were remarkably distinct , and these underwent no alteration .
In the fifth experiment ( see description of fig. 3 ) the observation was continued for 5 days , at the end of which period the animal was killed .
At that time the connective-tissue corpuscles , which were distinct and presented very remarkable contours , remained entirely unchanged .
" WJ3.3VesT.ey li flh. .
'WWe st \amp ; Co. imp Tissue of the Tongue in Inflammation .
395 In experiment 6 ( see fig. 4 ) the observations were continued successfully for seven days , during the whole of which period the circulation was vigorous , although active emigration took place .
Neither in this nor in any of the other cases was any extravasation of coloured blood-corpuscles , either from veins or capillaries , distinctly viewed .
In this respect there may be a difference between the frog and toad .
In experiment 8 no exudation took place during the first day , the circulation going on apparently normally .
Subsequently leucocytes began to escape , and exhibited their usual character mid behaviour .
The observation was continued for three days , but no change occurred in the fixed corpuscles .
In experiment 11 the observation was as successful as in experiment 6 .
The circulation was vigorous until the sixth day ; emigration was abundant , and began immediately after the commencement of the observation .
In the course of the sixth day it became feeble , and it was then observed that the connective-tissue corpuscles , although retaining their form , lost their transparency and became granular .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 8 .
Fig. 2 .
Diagram of vertical section of tongue , distended .
A , papillated surface ; B , submucous muscular layer ; C , smooth under surface of mucous membrane , forming wall of the larger lymph-sac , D ; G- , principal venous trunks ; H , principal arterial trunks , which are accompanied by nerves not shown ; F , F , muscular bundles ; E , fine transparent membrane of connective tissue lining the lymph-sacs , and forming a continuous sheath to the bundles of muscular fibre .
In this membrane are the fixed corpuscles , the subjects of observation .
Fig 3 .
Field of view in Experiment 5 at the commencement of the observation .
Emigration has not commenced , but in the vein A the leucocytes ( F , F ) begin to tend towards the internal surface of the wall .
Through the capillary B a few coloured corpuscles are passing .
0 , C are the fixed corpuscles of the tissue .
The fine lines are single fibres of connective-tissue .
E , E are the red blood-corpuscles .
In this experiment , in which , as already stated , the observations were con-tinued for five days ( from Oct. 23 to Oct. 29 ) , I was able to bring the same field into view from time to time during the whole period .
The vein marked D was at the beginning of the observation obliterated , having been injured m preparation .
Towards the third day blood began to pass through it , and soon the circulation in it was completely reestablished .
In this case the connective-tissue corpuscles represented ( C 0 0 C ) were watched with the most minute attention .
Notwithstanding that the emigration was most abundant , so that before each observation it was necessary to cleanse the surface of the lymph-sac by irrigation , as above described , there was no alteration of form whatever , either in the corpuscles themselves or in their nuclei , nor did they exhibit the slightest tendency to divide .
Fig. 4 represents the appearances exhibited by a vein and the neighbouring texture elements , at a later stage .
In the vein Y , notwithstanding that the circulation is still vigorous , an abundant emigration is in progress .
Some colourless corpuscles adhere to the walls , others have already escaped and are crossing the field , mostly clinging to the fibrils of connective tissue , and exhibit various ' 2 r YOL .
XXY .
; 396 Mr. C. H. Gimingham on a new [ Dec. 7 , and active amoeboid movements .
0 , C are connective-tissue corpuscles , of which one is of such remarkable form and appearance that the least change in it could be very readily observed .
It contains a conspicuous vacuole , and it sends its processes along the fibrils of elastic tissue , as formerly described .
N is a small nerve-trunk .
M , striated muscular fibres .
L , L are leucocytes\#151 ; migratory colourless blood-corpuscles .
This specimen was kept under observation for eight days , during the whole of which emigration continued .
It remained absolutely unchanged , with the exception that the vacuole of the corpuscle above described varied somewhat in size .
Thus on the fifth day it became somewhat more distinct than it had been before .
About the same time highly refractive granules and bodies resembling Bacteria appeared , and the leucocytes present seemed also to contain granules .
On the seventh day it was observed that the circulation was growing feeble , and the tissues were losing their transparency , a change in which the fixed corpuscles obviously participated .
On the morning of the eighth day it was found that circulation had ceased .
December 7 , 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On a new Form of the ' SprengeL Air-pump and Vacuum-tap/ - ' By Charles H. Gimingham .
Communicated by William Crookes , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received August 30 , 1876 .
[ Plate 9 .
] Having had the honour of being with Mr. Crookes during the w hole of his recent researches on Radiation , and knowing the importance of obtaining the highest degree of rarefaction possible , 1 have latterly devoted much attention to the improvement of the " Sprengel " mercury-pump .
Having now succeeded in constructing an instrument yielding very satisfactory results both in degree of exhaustion and rapidity of working , I purpose giving a detailed desciiption of it , together with a new form of vacuum-tap which has been found exceedingly useful while w orking with vacua .
The instrument , owing to the number of accessories , at first sight appears complicated .
1 will therefore first explain the principle of the pump , tracing the mercury and exhaustion through the different tubes , and then describe each adjunct separately .
Assuming the pump to be empty , the reservoir A ( fig. 1 ) is lowered till its support rests on the stop ( S ) at the bottom of the stand ( as shown by dotted lines in the figure ) , the position of the latter being so arranged

