130 Profs .
S. H. Vines and J. R. Green .
[ June 16 , X. " The Reserve Proteid of the Asparagus Root .
" By S. H , Vines , F.R.S. , and J. R. Green , M.A. , F.L.S. Received June 10 , 1892 .
The object of research was the determination of the nature of the substance , presumably a proteid , from which is formed the asparagiu which is so abundantly present in the young shoots of the plant in the spring .
The researches were carried on during the springs of 1891 and 1892 , and results have been obtained which are sufficiently definite for publication .
Microscopical Observations.\#151 ; When a transverse section of a fresh root , taken from the plant while in a state of winter-rest , is mounted in alcohol on a slide , and is at once examined with the microscope , some of the parenchymatous cortical cells are seen to contain relatively large masses of irregular shape .
When water is run under the cover-slip these masses at once dissolve .
From their general appearance and their reaction with iodine these masses probably consist of some form of proteid .
Chemical Observations .
a. Watery 'Extract.-\#151 ; The watery extract was made by pounding the fresh root in a mortar with distilled water ( generally 100 c.c. water to 100 grams root ) , and straining off and filtering the liquid .
The resulting extract was faintly yellow , slightly opalescent , and feebly acid .
On boiling it gave a dense precipitate , which gave a good xanthoproteic reaction , thus indicating its proteid nature .
The liquid filtered off from the precipitate gave a faint xanthoproteic reaction .
In some experiments the extract was carefully neutralised with ammonia to precipitate the phosphates , and then some common salt ( NaCl ) was added to throw down a substance of unknown nature but not a proteid , the presence of which was detected at an early stage in the investigation ; the neutral liquid then filtered off gave only a turbidity on boiling ; when the liquid was made slightly alkaline the same result was given ; but in both cases when the extract was made faintly acid a good precipitate was obtained on boiling .
The coagulation point was determined to be 71\#151 ; 73 ' C. The watery extract gave a good xanthoproteic reaction ; a fairly good reaction with Millon 's reagent ; no sat isfactory reaction with acetic acid and potassic ferrocyanide or with potassic hydrate and copper sulphate .
When alcohol in excess was added there was a , dense precipitate which at first was soluble again in water , but which became for the most part insoluble if allowed to remain for some time in contact L892 .
] The Reserve Proteid of the A sparagus Root .
with the alcohol .
This precipitate when suspended in water , after prolonged contact with alcohol , gave a good xanthoproteic reaction .
When the watery extract was allowed to drop into a tall jar containing distilled water , there was no precipitation or turbidity .
Similarly , when some of the extract was diluted with fifteen times its volume of distilled water , and a stream of C02 was passed through the liquid for 1\#151 ; 6 hours , no turbidity was apparent .
When some of the extract was subjected to dialysis in a stream of running water for four days , and the dialysis afterwards continued for two days in large excess of distilled water , a finely granular precipitate was formed in the dialyser , which when filtered off gave no xanthoproteic reaction , whilst the filtrate still coagulated at 71 ' C. The proteid was therefore soluble in distilled water , being thrown down neither by dilution nor dialysis .
Portions of the extract were shaken up to saturation for some days with crystals of the following neutral salts : NaCI , MgS04 , MgS04 and Na2S04 , ( NH4)2S04 .
With NaCI there was a slight precipitation of the proteid , but the greater part of it remained in solution . .
With MgS04 there was a more copious , but still incomplete , precipitation of the proteid : on saturating the filtrate with Na^SOi no further precipitate fell .
With ( NH4)2S04 , when the saturation was continued for a month , the whole of the proteid was precipitated .
b. Salt Solution Extract.\#151 ; This extract was prepared by using 10 per cent , solution of NaCl instead of distilled water , as in the former experiments .
The reactions were generally the same as those given by the watery extract ; but the undetermined substance , which is pre-cipitable by salt , was present in much smaller quantities , and the precipitates of proteid were less bulky than those given by the watery extract .
Conclusions as to the Proteid.\#151 ; It appears from the foregoing experiments that the root of the asparagus contains a single reserve proteid .
Inasmuch as it is readily soluble in distilled water , it is essentially an albumin ; at the same time , its reactions with neutral salts indicate a relationship to the globulins which is not manitested by the animal albumins .
However , proteids other than globulins are precipitated on saturation of their solutions with neutral salts ; thus Schafer* and Halliburton " ) " have both shown that serum-albumin is completely thrown down on double saturation with magnesium and sodium sulphates , and Kuhne and Chittenden^ have found that the * ' Journal of Physiology , ' vol. 3 , 1882 , p. 184 .
f Ibid. , vol. 5 , 1884 , p 178 .
J " Ueber Albumosen , " ' Zeitschrift fur Biologie , ' xxii .
x ' 2 132 Dr. G. H. Fowler .
[ Ju"e u j albumoses are precipitated by NaCl from their , in some cases neutra i in others faintly acid , solutions .
Besides the proteid we have found three undetermined substance 1 in the extracts , neither of which is proteid .
The first of these ( 1 ) [ .
the substance which is present in considerable quantity in the waterj \ extract , and which is precipitated on adding a small amount of salt .
| ( 2 .
) When a portion of the first extract is freed from proteid by boil- I ing , and then the filtrate poured into alcohol , a precipitate is formed , j fairly copious but much less than that formed when the unboiled extract is similarly neutral , as described above .
This remains soluble j in water after prolonged action of the alcohol , but the solution gives I no xanthoproteic reaction .
( 3 .
) When the alcohol is evaporated to dryness a sticky residue is j left , which also is soluble in water , and its solution gives a fair xantho- i proteic reaction .
This is not proteid , however , as it is soluble in alcohol .
This substance can be extracted from the fresh extract bj j dialysing it in distilled water .
On concentrating this dialysate a similar sticky residue is obtained .
In several cases this brown , sticky I mass deposited crystals of rounded form , much resembling in appearance the well-known aggregations of leucin .
They were not leucin , however , as besides being soluble in cold alcohol they did not give .
the characteristic Scherer 's reaction , nor did they form a compound with the acetates of lead or zinc .
It is not improbable that this third undetermined substance may be allied to leucin , asparagin , \amp ; c. , but our observations on it are as yet incomplete .
XI .
" Note on the Structure of .
" By G. Herbert Fowler , B.A. , Ph. D. , Assistant in the Zoological Laboratory of University College , London .
Communicated by Prof. W. F. R. Weldon , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1892 .
The specimens investigated were attached to a colony of obtained by the " Challenger " Expedition at Nightingale Island , from a depth of 100\#151 ; 150 fathoms .
I owe to Mr. John Murray my thanks for his courtesy in allowing me to publish my notes on the structure of this interesting form , in which I hoped that the improved methods of microscopical research introduced in recent years might reveal points which had , perhaps , escaped the two observers to whose study of the living animal we owe our present knowledge of pleura .
All the new anatomical features which I have been able to detect are in entire agreement with the structure of pleura may thus be taken to form a third member of Bateson 's order , the Hemiehordata .
They are , briefly , as follows:\#151 ;

