; 396 Mr. C. H. Gimingham on a new [ Dec. 7 , and active amoeboid movements .
0 , C are connective-tissue corpuscles , of which one is of such remarkable form and appearance that the least change in it could be very readily observed .
It contains a conspicuous vacuole , and it sends its processes along the fibrils of elastic tissue , as formerly described .
N is a small nerve-trunk .
M , striated muscular fibres .
L , L are leucocytes\#151 ; migratory colourless blood-corpuscles .
This specimen was kept under observation for eight days , during the whole of which emigration continued .
It remained absolutely unchanged , with the exception that the vacuole of the corpuscle above described varied somewhat in size .
Thus on the fifth day it became somewhat more distinct than it had been before .
About the same time highly refractive granules and bodies resembling Bacteria appeared , and the leucocytes present seemed also to contain granules .
On the seventh day it was observed that the circulation was growing feeble , and the tissues were losing their transparency , a change in which the fixed corpuscles obviously participated .
On the morning of the eighth day it was found that circulation had ceased .
December 7 , 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On a new Form of the ' SprengeL Air-pump and Vacuum-tap/ - ' By Charles H. Gimingham .
Communicated by William Crookes , F.R.S. \amp ; c. Received August 30 , 1876 .
[ Plate 9 .
] Having had the honour of being with Mr. Crookes during the w hole of his recent researches on Radiation , and knowing the importance of obtaining the highest degree of rarefaction possible , 1 have latterly devoted much attention to the improvement of the " Sprengel " mercury-pump .
Having now succeeded in constructing an instrument yielding very satisfactory results both in degree of exhaustion and rapidity of working , I purpose giving a detailed desciiption of it , together with a new form of vacuum-tap which has been found exceedingly useful while w orking with vacua .
The instrument , owing to the number of accessories , at first sight appears complicated .
1 will therefore first explain the principle of the pump , tracing the mercury and exhaustion through the different tubes , and then describe each adjunct separately .
Assuming the pump to be empty , the reservoir A ( fig. 1 ) is lowered till its support rests on the stop ( S ) at the bottom of the stand ( as shown by dotted lines in the figure ) , the position of the latter being so arranged 1876 .
] Sprengel Air-pump and Vacuum-tap .
397 that when A is full the level of the mercury shall be just above the euds of the fall-tubes ( h , i , j ) in the fixed reservoir B. A sufficient quantity of mercury being poured into B , the pinch-cock ( K ) is opened , when the mercury flows through the flexible tubing* into A , in the direction shown by the arrows , till the level in each reservoir is the same ; K is then closed and A raised to the stop S ' .
S " is another stop for the reservoir A , placed halfway up the stand , so that when the exhaustion has proceeded sufficiently to cause the mercury to rise to the necessary height , by the excess of external pressure , much labour may be saved by only raising the reservoir to this middle stop .
The pinch-cock K being closed and the reservoir A raised , the mercury passes the three-way connexion ( L ) up a small length of flexible tube to the pinch-cock M , thence up the glass tube through the air-trap b , and , rising over the point c , falls into the jet e , where it is divided into three columns , supplying the three fall-tubes ( , i , j ) , and , having taken out a certain amount of air in its passage down these , is collected in B. The exhaustion is carried through the arm / , with which it will be seen are connected , by means of mercury joints and the author 's device for a vacuum-tap , the different gauges , \amp ; c. considered useful when working with high exhaustions , g is an ordinary barometer-gauge dipping into a separate reservoir 0 , having the barometer on one side and the measuring-rod ( l ) on the other ; the latter is a glass tube divided into millimetres measured from a point at the bottom , which is always made to touch the surface of the mercury in C before taking an observation of the height of the gauge or barometer .
m represents a small siphon-gauge , but is only of little value , owing to its small bore and the consequent interference of capillarity ; this , however , could at any time be replaced by one of a larger bore where occasion to require its accurate use .
n is one of Mr. Crookes 's radiometers , made on a small scale , constituting a most valuable gauge as to the exhaustion within the pump , as its rate of motion increases almost to the highest exhaustions obtained by the pump alone ; and even up to an absolute vacuum , the radiometer would give under any circumstances valuable indications with regard to the state of exhaustion , as will be seen in future papers by Mr. Crookes .
The wide tube o is the sulphuric or anhydrous phosphoric acid reservoir .
Connected to the exhaust arm by the spiral P is McLeod 's beautiful apparatus for measuring the exhaustion by condensing a large quantity of the residual gas into a small graduated tube , and then by allowing calculation for the different pressure .
The letters r , q , p represent this apparatus : is the small graduated * This tubing is specially made to stand great pressure by having a tube of canvas between two tubes of india-rubber .
2 e 2 398 Mr. C. H. Gimingham on a new [ Dec. 7 , tube in which the residual gas is condensed , and r another graduated tube , where the pressure is taken .
The supply of mercury for condensing the gas is taken from the reservoir A of the pump , passing through the pinch-cock N up the tube p * .
The mercury joints used to connect the different parts of this pump are small blown funnels carefully stoppered , shown in section ( fig. 2 ) : a , represents the funnel ; b , the stopper ; c , mercury ; sulphuric acid .
The stopper is ground by hand with fine emery and water into the neck of the funnel , using " rotten-stone " to finish with .
Stoppers made carefully in this way need no grease , as the mercury and sulphuric acid will not pass between surfaces fitting so closely .
Sulphuric acid is used to ensure perfect contact between the glass and mercury .
Before going further , I will describe the vacuum-tap , which constitutes one of the principal improvements in this pump , and will , I think , prove very valuable to many who may conduct research at high exhaustions .
It consists of three parts ( A , B , 0 , fig. 3 ) : A is an ordinary stopper ground to fit perfectly in B ; the lower end of the funnel B is a closed stopper fitting very accurately in C. A neat hole ( d ) , drilled through the centre of the stoppered or ground part of B , meets a rather deep groove ( e ) cut in the funnel C rather more than halfway up the ground part .
When these three are put together ( lubricating the stoppers with a very little grease or burnt india-rubber ) , the funnel B turns independently of A and C , so that the latter parts can be fixed in any way necessary .
The tap is closed with the funnel B in any position , except that in which the aperture dis opposite the groove e , when of course A is in connexion with C and any apparatus attached .
The stoppers are proof against leakage on account of their working under mercury and sulphuric acid placed in the funnels .
When the tap is turned off , in order to make it absolutely proof against leakage , supposing the tube A or any thing connected with it has to be cut or opened after exhaustion , before doing so the stopper A is slightly lifted to let a drop of mercury fall from the funnel and cover up the little aperture d. The tap is now a perfect mercury joint , allowing any apparatus to be taken off or fastened to A without the slightest fear of deteriorating the vacuum below C. To again connect the tap with the pump ( and therefore any apparatus to which it is blown ) the stopper A is removed , and the mercury covering the small aperture d taken out with a fine pipette ; a small globule of mercury will still remain in the little aperture , which , if desired , may be taken out with an amalgamated copper wire ; otherwise , when the tap is turned on , it will fall on the side of least pressure , viz. the side best exhausted .
* For detailed description of this apparatus see McLeod 's paper in Phil. Mag. for August 1874 , p. 110 .
1876 .
] Sprengel Air-pump and Vacuum-tap .
399 After having removed the mercury , the stopper A is replaced and connected with the pump .
When the exhaustion of the latter is complete the tap may be turned on without admitting any air into the apparatus .
Where this tap is used in connexion with the pump itself , the mercury covering the little aperture d need not be removed , as it merely runs into the pump when the tap is turned on .
There are three of these taps used in the instrument ( fig. 1 , t , u , v ) :\#151 ; v , placed at the exhaust arm of the pump , is useful to turn off after the exhaustion of an instrument , to prevent air entering the pump when another apparatus is blown on ( a certain amount of time is thus saved ) ; t and u connect with the pump the two instruments having the largest cubic contents , viz. the radiometer and McLeod 's apparatus , enabling them to be cut off when not in use , thereby greatly diminishing the space within the pump .
The air-trap ( b , fig. 1 ) is the same as used and described by Mr. Crookes , in his first papers on " Radiation j " it is enlarged in fig. 4 .
The tube a is blown into b at the point c , and passes some distance down inside , the end being covered by a small glass cap ( d ) .
This cap must have sufficient room to entirely fall off the end of the tube descending inside 6 , in order to enable one to empty the trap of air into the pump when necessary , which is done by opening the pinch-cock M ( fig. 1 ) when the reservoir A is down , thus allowing the mercury to fall in the tube a. The cap then drops off the end of the inner tube , and the air rushes into the pump , the latter of course having been previously exhausted .
It will be easily seen how any air carried mechanically up the tube a ( fig. 1 ) is caught by this trap and collects round the joint c ( fig. 4 ) .
Following the mercury up from the trap , we come to the sulphuric acid tap , used to lubricate and clean the fall-tubes when required .
This operation , and also that of admitting air when necessary , used to be done by raising a simple stopper , kept covered with mercury and sulphuric acid ; but on account of the many accidents happening through the unsteady raising of the stopper , since devising the vacuum-tap I have adapted a modification of the latter to this purpose .
Fig. 5 shows the arrangement on a large scale : a is a bulb for the reception of sulphuric acid ; b , a stopper and funnel , drilled and grooved as for a vacuum-tap , but the stopper having , on the opposite side to the aperture , a groove cut so far down the stopper that it shall slightly overlap with the groove in the funnel when turned so that they meet .
Now if the stopper is turned to bring the aperture opposite the groove in the funnel , sulphuric acid runs from the bulb a into the pump , and is carried with the mercury to the jet , where it is distributed to the three fall-tubes .
On the other hand , when it is so turned that the two grooves come together , the mercury in the funnel first runs in , followed by air , of which the rate of influx and amount admitted is , by this means , under 400 Mr. C. H. Girainghara a new [ Dec. 7 perfect control .
cis a simple stopper to prevent the sulphuric acid in a from absorbing moisture .
We now come to the jet ( e , fig. 1 ) : it is made with a double-stopper arrangement , so that the jet may be easily separated from the pump , should it require altering , or any stoppage occur .
The jet itself , where the mercury divides , is made of platinum and blown to the glass ; the centre hole is straight , the two side ones being drilled at a slight angle , to direct the mercury into the side tubes .
Owing to the double stopper the jet may be turned , at any time , so as to direct all three streams of mercury down the centre tube if desired .
Whether any advantage is gained by so doing is perhaps rather doubtful , though I think that a great force of mercury will sometimes carry entirely down minute traces of air , which a less force will only take part of the way down , the little bubble then rising again to the surface , when the work has to be recommenced .
At first the division of the one column of mercury into three streams presented rather a difficulty ; but after numerous experiments I found a platinum jet most simple and successful .
The spiral ( W , fig. 1 ) is used as a flexible joint between the apparatus and the pump ; it enables one to use levelling-screws , \amp ; c. without fear of breaking the connecting-tube .
Of course I am speaking with the understanding that all instruments are put on the pump by means of a mercury or blown joint , as no other is perfect when working at the highest exhaustions .
India-rubber connexions , covered with glycerine , are very excellent joints , but are very disagreeable to work with , and cannot be compared with a blown or mercury joint .
The gauge ( g , fig. 1 ) is fixed to the pump by a mercury joint in order that it may be easily removed and cleaned when necessary , accurate heights being much more easily taken with a perfectly clean surface of mercury .
The height of the gauge and barometer is taken by means of the slide y moving rather stiffly on the divided rod ; the slide carries an arm projecting across both the gauge and barometer at perfect right angles to the divided rod .
Behind the top part of these instruments is placed a mirror , in order to prevent the interference of parallax while taking the heights , by using the reflected images to level the eye .
A cathetoineter is of course preferable ; but very great accuracy may be obtained in this way .
Just above the tap at the end of the sulphuric acid reservoir is placed an electrical vacuum-tube ( D ) , the terminals of which are made of aluminium , and only separated by one eighth of an inch .
It is very convenient to have this fixed to the pump , as it is thus always in readiness to test the vacuum as regards its conductivity with the induction-coil .
Below this tube , and between it and the tap , is placed a small bulb ( E ) packed rather tightly with gold leaf , intended to stop any mercury vapour tjirnxnghxxm .
J9b .
9 : W " .
West \amp ; .
C* Utk .
1876 .
] Sprengel Air-pump and Vacuum-tap .
401 that may reach here before entering the apparatus attached to the pump .
1 will now refer to some of the mechanical arrangements fixed to the stand for the convenient working of the instrument .
The reservoir A is fixed on a slide running up and down the stand in grooves cut in separate pieces of wood and screwed to the stand .
The stops S ' and S " are of brass , and kept jutting out from the stand by a spring from behind ; they are pressed in when the slide passes over them , and fly out again directly underneath it .
When lowering the reservoir , the stops are pressed back by the thumb .
The pinch-cock K is especially contrived for rapid working .
It is represented in fig. 6 .
The lever ( a)is made of oak , one end being loosely screwed to the stand with an ordinary screw ; the other end is cut into a fork to receive the fine threaded screw ( 6 ) , which carries two nuts , and moves backwards and forwards on the pinned joint ( c ) .
Now when once the nuts on the screw ( b ) have been screwed down on the fork of the lever , so as to sufficiently compress the pipe , it is then entirely opened or shut by simply working the screw on the joint ( c ) : the open position is shown by dotted lines .
When closing this pinch-cock , the lever is pressed down by the thumb while the first finger places the nuts over the fork .
The pinch-cocks N , M are made in the same way as the above , but without the joint c , the gradual opening and shutting by means of a screw being necessary .
The stand is 5 feet 6 inches high and 11 inches broad .
The fall-tubes measure about 36 inches from the highest level of mercury in B to the jet : the two side ones have a bore of about 2 millims. ; the centre one is smaller ( about 1 % to \\ millim. ) , being the size according to my experience to produce the most complete vacuum .
The auxiliary side tubes are made of the larger bore for the sake of rapid exhaustion up to the point at which the barometer and gauge appear to be level , when the centre tube does the principal work , although the side ones still aid considerably .
The reservoir A contains , when full , rather more than 20 lbs. of mercury , being a convenient weight to lift .
With regard to the capabilities and advantages of this pump it is unnecessary for me to dwell at any length , as the vacuum that the " Sprengel " principle is capable of producing is so well known at the present time ; although I may safely say that the exhaustion produced by this instrument will at least rival , if not considerably exceed , that produced by any other air-pump yet brought to bear upon research in vacua .
The rapidity of working is of course the chief advantage of an instrument of this construction .
Experiment has shown that the raising of the reservoir and passing of its contents through the pump five times will reduce the pressure within an apparatus having a cubic content of about 80 cubic centims. to 041 millims. , measured by McLeod s apparatus .
But with regard to these Mr. F , Chambers Variation# [ Dec. 7 , points , I would rather refer to an elaborate series of experiments by Mr. Crookes , in which this pump plays a most important part , shortly to be brought before the Royal Society .
Note.\#151 ; Since writing the above description , while working , with McLeod 's apparatus it has been found necessary to introduce an air-trap similar to b , fig. 1 , between the pinch-cock 1ST and the apparatus , as small bubbles of air were frequently seen creeping up the pipe p. II .
" The Diurnal Variations of the Wind and Barometric Pressure.^ By Fred .
Chambers , Meteorological Reporter for the Bombay Presidency , and Acting Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory , Bombay .
Communicated by Charles Chambers , F.R.S. Received November 9 , 1876 .
In a paper which was read before the Royal Society in 1873 , and which was honoured with a place in the * Philosophical Transactions * of that year * , I discussed the diurnal variations of the wind and barometric pressure at Bombay , and deduced therefrom the fact that a system of diurnal wind-currents moves synchronally with the diurnal variation of barometric pressure .
Reasons , were given for believing that that system of diurnal wind-currents is a universal phenomenon ; and on that hypothesis I showed how the diurnal variations of the barometer could be explained as a result of those currents .
I have lately examined closely the " Discussion of the Anemometrical Results furnished by the self-recording Anemometer at Bermuda , " which forms Appendix II .
of the ' Quarterly Weather-Report of the Meteorological Office , London , ' July to September 1872 .
Those results support the conclusions arrived at in my former paper in such a remarkable manner as to justify the readvancement of some of them in a form which will prominently exhibit their relation to the diurnal variation of the barometer .
The following Table ( p. 403 ) exhibits the mean diurnal variations of the north and east components of the wind , in miles per hour , at Bermuda , for the whole year and for the summer and winter half-years .
It is compiled from Table II .
of the Appendix to the Quarterly Weather-Report already referred to .
These variations are also represented graphically by figures 1 to 9 ( p. 404 ) , the variations of the north and east components for each of these periods being exhibited separately by figures 1 to 6 , and in a combined form by figures 7 to 9 .
Comparing figure 7 with figure 9 ( plate xxxiv .
) of the * Transactions ' for 1873 , we see that the figures are remarkably similar in form .
Both curves exhibit a double right-handed rotation in the twenty-four hours , and all the hours of the day are respectively similarly situated on both * Pages 1 to 18 .

