Chemical Account of the Cold Bokkeveld Meteoric Stone .
By MICHAEL FARADAY , Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. 8fc .
, in a Letter to Sir J. F. W. HERSCHEL , Bart. V.P.R.S. 8yc .
Sc. Commnunicated by Sir J. F. W. HERSCHEL , Bart. Received March 7 , -Read March 21 , 1839 .
Royal Institution , February 28 , 1839 .
MY DEAR SIR JOHN , 1 am at last able to send you a chemical account of the meteoric stone , leaving its physical characters ( except some of those which bear upon the chemical results ) entirely for your observation .
The stone is soft , porous , and hygrometrtic .
A piece of it which , at common temperature , weighed 194-4 grains , by being perfectly saturated with water under the air-pump receiver , became 202 grains , and when thoroughly dried became 182'9 grains .
In its most moist condition it had a specific gravity of 2'48 , which , if abstraction be made of the water in it , would give a specific gravity of 2-94 for the dry stony matter .
It has a very smaall degree of magnetic power , and that is irregularly dispersed in the stone .
T'he heat of the mouth blowpipe sends off sulphur , and softens , but does not fuse it ; a higher heat , after softening it still more , makes it run into a very fluid state , the globule when cold being black and opake .
The composition of the stone may be gathered from the following analytical results , calculated for 100 parts of the stone in its natural state : Water ... ... .
6'50 Sulphur ... ... .
4-24 Silica ... ... . .
28'90 Protoxide of iron ... ... 33'22 Magnesia ... ... ... ... .
1920 Alumina ... ... .
5*22 Limle ... ... ... ... .
1 64 Oxide of nickel ... 0.82 Oxide of chromium ... ... 070 Cobalt , a trace ... . .
Soda , a trace ... ... ... ... 100'44 I have entered the iron above as protoxide , and nearly the whole of it is in that state .
But there are portions , though very small , of metallic iron present .
I could not collect more than 0'06 from 100 parts of the stone .
Of this the largest portion was in very fine particles , recognisable only by their magnetic properties , and the evolution of hydrogen by dilute sulphuric acid ; but there was one piece of sufficient size to show the malleability , lustre , and other general properties of the metal .
This metallic iron contained nickel as well as the stone generally .
A part of the iron in the stone was also in the state of sulphuret , as was evident by the sulphuretted hydrogen evolved on the action of acids .
The result with regard to the sulphur was obtained in the form of sulphate of baryta ; but though I have entered it as sulphur only in the analysis , it did not all have that state in the stone , for a part of it was there as sulphuric acid .
In fact , water only , when boiled with the stone , removed small portions both of sulphate of lime and sulphate of soda ; and this was the case when , on repeating the experiments , I was very careful to take parts from the middle of the smaller fragment , parts which had not seen the light until I broke them out .
It is a question , however , whether the soda belonged to the stone when it fell , and what proportion of sulphuric acid was in it at that time ; for the stone being porous and hygrometric , the water and air in it may have converted a part of the sulphur into sulphuric acid ; and as to the soda , I think it must have been acquired upon the earth ; for the water separated also a portion of destructible organic substance , and the larger fragment of the stone still has small particles of insoluble vegetable matter adhering to it , having the appearance of being derived from manure .
I am , my dear Sir JOHN , Yours most faithfully , M. FARADAY .
Sir JOHN F. W. HERSCHEL , Bart. 8c .
3c .
f c. 87 An Account of the Fall of a M11eteoric Stone in the Cold Bokkeveld , Cape of Good Hope .
By THOMAS MACLEAR , Esq. F.R.S. 'c .
, in a Letter to Sir JOHN F. W. HERSCHEL , Bart. V.P.R.S. Sc. &amp;c. Communicated by Sir J. F. W. HERSCHEL .
Received March 7 , -Read March 21 , 1839 .
Royal Observatory , Cape of Good Hope , November 24 , 1838 .
DEAR SIR JOHN , A METEOR exploded on the 13th of October in the Cold Bokkeveld , with a noise so loud as to be heard over an area of more than seventy miles in diameter , in broad daylight , about half-past nine in the morning .
It was seen traversing the atmosphere north-east of the point where it exploded sixty miles , of a silvery hue , the air at the time calm , hot , and sultry .
The barometer chanced to be observed at Worcester , where the air was also calm and hot .
It stood at the lowest point of its range , but , from the construction of the instrument , that point cannot be noted in inches unless by comparison with another , which I will endeavour to have done the first opportunity .
The explosion was accompanied by a noise like that from artillery , followed by the fall of pieces of matter , of which I send you the largest and best specimen I have seen , procured by Mr. Watermeyer .
Portions fell or were dispersed on the ground at the distance of an hour , or five miles from each other .
Some falling on hard ground were smashed ; others on moist ground plunged into the earth ; and I am told that one piece made a hole as broad as three feet , and sunk deep .
It is stated to have been so soft as to admit of being cut with a knife where it first fell ; then it hardened , but I cannot learn anything as to its temperature at that moment .
If the reports are correct , I estimate the original solid mass at five cubic feet , viz. the sum of all the portions that fell to the ground .
That which I send to you is a good specimen , for the fracture is exactly similar to those I have seen that fell elsewhere , but , from being broken into small pieces , few of them have any crust or outside to show the state of fusion .
This exhibits that state all over : when the two pieces are applied to each other they exactly fit , and show that it was in a state of ignition when it separated from the rest in the air .
Mr. Judge MENZIES told me he was returning from circuit accompanied by Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON .
On the morning of the 13th " he was in the bush , " about sixty miles from the Bokkeveld , on his way homewards .
The air was hot and calm , as preceding a thunder storm , but the clouds were not dark ; on the contrary , they had an unusual reddish tint .
About half-past nine his attention was roused by something like a meteor , of a silvery colour , passing through the atmosphere , to which he directed the attention of those about him .
The object moved in the direction of the Bokkeveld .
He proceeded on his journey , and arrived in the evening at the place of Mr. DE TOIT , where he was told that a meteor had exploded in the morning , with a report as loud as " from three pieces of cannon , " and that some of it fell close to the place , one nearly striking a person in a field .
Mr. TRUTER , Civil Commissioner of Worcester , was sitting in his office .
He told me that the windows suddenly shook ; immediately a rumbling noise followed , which he supposed was the precursor of an earthquake ; his barometer stood at the lowest point of its range .
Mrs. TRUTER heard a similar noise in the dwelling-house ; other persons in the town were startled by the like noise ; the next day he heard of the meteor in the Bokkeveld .
The statement made to him by several persons is so like the statement in the enclosed letter of Mr. WATERMEYER'S correspondent , that it is unnecessary to repeat it .
Understanding that Mr. WATERMEYER had obtained a portion of the meteorolite of considerable dimensions , I wrote to him to request a piece for you .
He returned the enclosed reply , together with the whole specimen , wherein you will find that lie had designed it for you .
The clergyman 's communication is clear and comprehensive .
On reference to the Observatory Meteorological Journal , there is nothing remarkable noted .
h Barom. Out .
There .
Wet .
Wind .
Oct. 12 .
91 30'191 60'1 58'5 4 S. 8 blue .
20 '247 68'2 62-5 382 6 b. cirri .
Direction horiz .
13 .
Noon '242 74'2 67 3 SSW. 5 blue cirri .
33 '230 74'2 68'7 4 SSW. 6 blue cirri .
Therefore the effect did not extend so far .
You will find the Cold Bokkeveld on the map by carrying your finger along the parallel of St. Helena Bay .
Believe me , dear SIR JOHN , Your faithful Servant , THOMAS MACLEAR .
84 Translated Extract from a Letter of the Rev. Mr. FAHN to Mr. WATERMEYER , dated Tulhagh , 6 Novem .
1838 .
The object of these lines is to fulfil amy promise in sending to you herewith one of the stones which fell simultaneously during the atmospheric tremor in the Cold Bokkeveld , on the 13th of October .
This stone was found between the estates of JACOBUS JOOSTEN and PIETER DE TOIT .
Several have fallen on the place of RUDOLPH VAN HEERDEN , where one fell on the hard road , and was dashed to pieces .
Another on a ploughed field sunk a few inches into the ground , and a third falling on a moist place near water , lodged itself to the depth of several feet .
Some people say they observed smoke whilst these stones fell ; and also that when they were picked up a smell was observable , as between sulphur and gunpowder .
The stone which you receive lay one hour distance from the place where the others were found .
In the same direction in which the agitation was perceptible , viz. from N.W. to S.E. more stones were found .
Some people saw in the same direction also a dark blue streak , which lost itself in a south-easterly direction .
I have another somewhat larger stone in the Bokkeveld , which was too heavy for me to carry on horseback .
If the latter one can be of service to you , I shall not fail to send it .
This stone was found in two pieces , as it is at present .
Mr. WATERMEYER'S Letter to THOMAS MACLEAR , Esq. Wednesday Morning , 21 Novem .
1838 .
MY DEAR SIR , I have to thank you for the favour of your note of Saturday last by Doctor KRAUSS .
As soon as I received the accompanying specimen , it was destined by me for our much-esteemed friend Sir JOHN HERSCHEL .
You will therefore perhaps have the kindness to transmit it to Sir JOHN , with my sincerest regards , by some fit opportunity .
I have added ( in the preceding extract ) whatever little information Mr. FAHN'S letter contains on the subject .
I shall write to Mr. FAHN by this week 's post , to send me the second specimen also , of which he speaks .
If there be no immediate opportunity of forwarding it to England , it might perhaps be proper to exhibit it first at our next Institution meeting , as I have not yet had an opportunity of showing the stone to any of its members .
Believe me , my dear Sir , Sincerely and respectfully yours , J. WATERMEYER .

