Photographic Spectra of Uranus and Saturn .
VII .
" Note on the Photographic { Spectra of Uranus and Saturn .
By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Mrs. Huggins .
Received June 5 , 1889 .
Uranus.\#151 ; In 1871 I had the honour to communicate to the Royal Society an account of the examination of the visible spectrum of Uranus.* The visible spectrum of this planet is remarkable , as it is seen to be crossed by several strong lines of absorption .
Six of these dark bands are shown in a diagram which accompanies the paper , and their approximate positions in the spectrum are given .
The spaces between the dark bands appear bright by contrast , and might suggest at first sight bright bands .
I was unable to use a slit sufficiently narrow to enable me to determine whether the bright parts of the spectrum contain the Fraunhofer lines , which would be the case if Uranus , like the other planets , shines by reflected solar light .
The spectrum of this planet was carefully examined in 1872 by Vogel , t whose results are in accordance with my earlier ones.^ He observed some fainter lines or bands , in addition to those given in my paper .
Vogel was unable to obtain evidence of the Fraunhofer lines .
His observations agree with mine in placing a dark band at the position of F in the solar spectrum .
J In consequence of the Fraunhofer lines not having been seen , a presumption has arisen that Uranus may shine , in part at least , by emitted light .
It appeared to me that this question might be answered by photography .
" With an exposure of two hours , I obtained on June 3 a photograph of the spectrum of the planet from a little above I to beyond N in the ultra-violet .
A pair of sky spectra , one on each side of the planet 's spectrum , were taken on the same plate .
The spectrum of Uranus , though fainter , shows all the chief Fraunhofer lines seen in the comparison spectra , and is clearly solar .
I have not been able to detect any indications of bright lines , nor of any strong bands or groups of absorption , such as those in its spectium from F to C. There can be no doubt that the spectrum of Uranus , at least , from a little above F to beyond N in the ultra-violet , is due to reflected solar light .
I have not yet been able to re-examine the visible spectrum of the planet .
Saturn.\#151 ; In 1864 , I gave an account of an examination of the * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 19 , p. 488 .
t ' Untersuchungen uber die Spectra der Planeten/ Leipzig , 1874 .
X Measures of some of the bands were made at Greenwich in 1882 .
See Greenwich Spectroscopic and Photographic Results/ 1882 , p. 33 .
Photographic Spectra of Uranus and Saturn .
[ June 6 , visible spectrum of this planet and its rings .
In my paper on the " Photographic Spectra of Stars , " * I described the photographic spectra of Yenus , Jupiter , and Mars .
About a year later I took a photograph of the spectrum of Saturn and his rings , but as it did not present any new features , but was purely solar , I have not given any description of it .
The favourable position of Saturn this year for obtaining a photograph in which the spectra of the ansae of the rings could be seen distinct from the spectrum of the ball and of the part of the ring crossing it , determined me to take some photographs of the planet and its rings .
I have adopted the plan described in 1880 , in which the planet is photographed while the sky is sufficiently bright to give a faint daylight spectrum on the plate .
Any additional lines or other modifications of solar light due to the planet 's atmosphere can in this way be easily detected .
In the photographs taken this year the slit was so placed upon Saturn that the spectrum consists of three distinct parts , the middle part being formed by the light from the ball , and the part of the ring across it , and on both sides of this spectrum the spectra of the ansae .
The planet was kept upon the same part of the slit with sufficient exactness to keep these three spectra distinct , and from encroaching upon each other , and therefore if any difference existed between them it could be detected .
The exact correspondence of the Fraunhofer lines in the spectrum of the planet and its rings with those of the sky spectrum is clearly shown , but I am unable now , as I was in 1881 , to detect any lines , dark or bright , other than those which are also present in the sky spectra .
The spectrum on the plate extends from a little above F to beyond N in the ultra-violet .
I am trying to obtain enlargements of the spectra of Saturn and Uranus to serve as illustrations to this note .
If they can be done so as to admit of reproduction , I will do myself the honour to present them to the Royal Society .
[ We have observed since , the visible spectrum of Uranus , but under unfavourable conditions , the planet being low and the sky not dark .
These observations confirm me strongly in the opinion I formed in 1871 that the brighter parts of the spectrum appear so as an effect of contrast , and do not represent emitted light .
In the moments of best vision the spectrum on both sides of the brighter parts appeared to be darkened by groups of lines which give a heightened effect by contrast to the less obscured parts between them .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1880 , p. 669 .
1889 .
] Properties of Vulcanised India-rubber .
At moments , we were conscious of dark lines crossing the spectrum , but the unfavourable conditions under which the observations were made prevented us from ascertaining by measurement or otherwise , whether any of these lines were Fraunhofer lines.\#151 ; July 5 .
] VIII .
" The Physical Properties of Vulcanised India-rubber .
" By A. MA .
LLOCK .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec* R.S. Received May 9 , 1889 .
Considering the wide use now made of india-rubber , it seems curious that the elastic constants which define its properties should not be as well known as the corresponding quantities for iron or brass .
The only published quantitative measure , however , with which I am acquainted , relating to the subject , is contained in a paragraph of Thomson and Tait 's ' Natural Philosophy ' ( p. 230 , Part II , New Edition ) , where the resilience of vulcanised india-rubber , the amount of work restored by the substance when allowed to return to its equilibrium form , after having been stretched to a maximum short of rupture , is stated to be equivalent to its own weight raised through 1200 metres .
In 1885 I made some measures of the value of Young s modulus for india-rubber , and also examined the effect of continued strain on the material , but at that time I was not aware how much different kinds of india-rubber differed from one another in these respects , and the experiments were made on one kind of vulcanised rubber only , namely , a soft grey sort , which when cut , shows small spots of a yellowish-grey scattered throughout its substance .
This yeai I resumed the experiments , using specimens of three different kinds of vulcanised india-rubber made at Silvertown .
The specimens were cut from a sheet half an inch thick , and were square in section , and one foot long .
One was a soft grey kind , apparently identical in properties with that experimented on in 1885 .
The next was the well-known red sort , and the third a dark grey , much harder and stiffer than the two former .
On these specimens experiments were made to determine the three elastic constants , viz. , Young 's modulus , the simple rigidity , and volume elasticity .
The apparent viscosity was also measured , and the behaviour of the materials under great strains , and strains continued for long periods , observed .
Young 's modulus and the simple rigidity were each measured in two ways , statically and dynamically .
The statical measurements being made by observing the extension and angle of torsion produced by a known force and moment ; while for the dynamical measures the

