]\gt ; Lord [ Oct. ,3 , ( iStltlption that the latter only one term , for which is , we If all ) inert ases it vould follow that the square of the of th vibration the dispersion is equal to a constant plus a term to the refractivity for intinite wave-length .
WG have great pleasure in thanks to Sir William and .
Moore the loan of the ases ; to Prof. Trouton Prof. orter , and the staff of the Physical tory of University much assistance and advice ; and to the Society for a grant in aid of these IGlI , I yhcu nxves adyance ally u tend holl the steeper and steeper Ultimat , conditions , there fornled what is be called npon beach are of orcs { ptions some these iven j .
ctica .
' clll rely to of tht [ . .
1908 .
] on places where these velocities and depths are reckoned are supposed to be situated on the two sides of the bore and at such distances from it that the motions are there sensibly uniform .
The ) roblem being taken as in dimensions , two relations may at once be formulated connecting the depths and velocities .
By consel .
Vation of matter ' continuity we lJave ( 1 ) Aud since the } pre ac the two sections ) ) , , the equation of momentum is ( 2 ) whence ) ) .
( 3 ) The luSb of enelgy per time the is hus ( 4 ) That there should be a loss of constl no difficulty , at least in the presence of viscosity ; bnt the of a of energy shows that the motions here contenlplated ca1mot be reversed .
In order to recur to the natUl'al condition of where the shallow is at rest , we have to superpose the velocity , taken atively upon the above motion .
The velocity of the bore is then and that of the the bore .
If is relatively small , is reater t The .just used is very similar to that ) by Stokes*and by to sound waves of expansion one dimension .
The matter is discussed in ' Theory of Sound , 5253 , it is that the discontinuous solution , obtained from the ation of mass and momentunl , violates the condition of energy .
When his was pointed out to tokes ] Kelvin and by myself , he abandoned his solution , which is , however , maintained by a competent Gel.man authority .
S It is clear , at least , that when the motion is such as to involve of the solution ) nnot 1 ) } .
The opposite case stands a different and to of he of discontinuity .
Even Chen shoulcl lu facc thu iled by the develo } ) meant of .
Ill case of liquid , heat is of little consequence , and since the motion is not entirely in one dimellsion , we escape the necessity of dealing with a single plane of discontinuity .
'Phil .
vol. , p. 349 , 1848 .
' Abh vol. 8 , 1860 .
Stokes , ' Math. ttnd Phys. ) ' vol. 2 , p. Private correspondence .

