[ 257 ] X. On the Development of the Teeth of Fishes ( Elasmobranchii and Teleostei ) .
By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. Communicated by John Tomes , F.B.S. Received March 1 , \#151 ; Read April 15 , 1875 .
The conformation of the jaws of the Elasmobranchii is such as to afford peculiar facilities for the study of the development of their teeth , and it has hence resulted that the older descriptions of the process approximate more closely to the truth than has been found to be the case in reptiles and mammals , and , I may now add , in osseous fish .
The accounts given by Prof. Owen in his 4 Odontography ' ( p. 35 ) and 4 Anatomy of Vertebrates ' ( vol. i. p. 381 ) do not materially differ from one another ; I will therefore make an extract from the latter work as embodying as concisely as possible the views of that anatomist , which are generally accepted as correct:\#151 ; 44 It is interesting to observe in it ( the class of Fishes ) the process arrested at each of the well-marked stages through which the development of a mammalian tooth passes .
In all fishes the first step is the simple production of a soft vascular papilla from the free surface of the buccal membrane ; in sharks and rays these papillae do not proceed to sink into the substance of the gum , but are covered by caps of an opposite free fold of the buccal membrane ; these caps do not contract any organic connexion with the papilliform matrix , but , as this is converted into dental tissue , the tooth is gradually withdrawn from the extraneous protecting-caps , to take its place and assume the erect position on the margin of the jaw .
44 Here , therefore , is represented the first and transitory 4 papillary ' stage of dental development in mammals , and the simple crescentic cartilaginous maxillary plate , with the open groove behind , containing the germinal papillae of the teeth , offers in the shark a magnified representation of the earliest condition of the jaws and teeth in the human embryo .
" My own observations do not enable me to verify in its entirety any portion of the above extract , some of the conclusions expressed in which had , indeed , already been challenged by Professor Huxley* in a paper published in the 4 Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science ' in 1853 .
* In the first part of the Philosophical Transactions for 18751 have already given a brief resume of the present state of knowledge on the subject of the development of teeth ; and I have therefore incorporated in the text of the present paper references to those papers only which directly relate to the teeth of Fish .
As , however , this paper will not appear in the same volume of the Transactions , I very gladly fall in with the suggestion that I should notice one or two salient points lately established as true of other teeth .
Prof. Huxley ( Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Sci. 1853 ) , while accepting the views of Goodsir as true of mammalian teeth , combated the idea that all reptilian and piscine teeth were developed from free papillae ; Guiulot ( Annal .
To confine the discussion for the present to the Elasmobranch Fishes , Professor Owen , as shown in the above quotation , holds that their teeth stop short at a " papillary " stage equivalent to that supposed by him to exist at an early stage of the formation of a human tooth ; while against this we have the opinion of Professor Huxley , that " the process seems to correspond with something more than the first and transitory papillary stage of the development of the mammalian teeth .
" The application of modern methods of microscopic research has rendered it possible to obtain sections showing the relation of the various structures over a far larger area than was formerly practicable ; and the facts thus brought to light appear to me to be of sufficient interest to merit careful description , although in many of the essential points I have been anticipated by Professor Huxley , as is shown by the extract here subjoined .
" In the Skate , as is well known , the young teeth are developed in longitudinal rows within a deep fold of the mucous membrane of the mouth , behind the jaw .
So far as my examinations go , however , I find that this is not a mere simple fold , such as it has been described to be , but its two walls behave just in the same manner as those of the primitive dental groove in man\#151 ; that is , they become closely united in lines perpendicular to the direction of the jaw , so that partitions are formed between every two rows of teeth ; transverse partitions again stretch between the separate teeth of each row , but these did not appear to .me to be complete , terminating by an arcuated border below .
Each longitudinal canal , therefore , answers to a single elongated mammalian follicle , or to that prolongation of the alveolar groove from which the posterior permanent molars are formed in man ( see Goodsir ) , only the process does not go so far as in this case , the separate capsules remaining imperfect anteriorly and posteriorly .
The lateral walls of the capsule , however , seem to me to have as much ( or as little ) 4 organic d. Sci. Not .
1850 ) gave figures of young mammalian tooth-germs , which were very nearly correct ; but the more precise knowledge which we now possess of the sequence of events in the formation of a tooth-germ is due to Prof. Kolliker ( Zeitschr .
f. wiss .
Zool. 1863 , and Gewebelehre , 5th edition ) .
Kolliker demonstrates that an ingrowth of epithelium ( termed by him " enamel-germ " ) , which was afterwards destined to become the enamel-organ , was first recognizable before the dentine-pulp became visible ; and , further , that the enamel-germ of a permanent tooth was derived from a part of the enamel-organ of its deciduous predecessor , this constituting the sole genetic relation between the two tooth-germs .
Legros and Magitot added ( Journ. de l'Anat .
et Phys. 1873 ) an account of the origin of the tooth-germs of the true molars .
Of fish , Prof. Kolliker in his earlier work ( Mikroskopische Anatomy , 1854 , B. ii .
p. 114 ) states , agreeing with Prof. Owen , that the teeth of Plagiostomcs are developed from free papilla ) , and that they have therefore no enamel , never having been enclosed in sacs .
This last inference is not confirmed by my own obseivation* , noi by those of Hertwig , quoted at a later page .
Prof. Kolliker goes on to say that the teeth of all other fish ( than Plagiostomes ) are developed in sacs , sometimes enclosed within the jaw , sometimes only in mucous membrane , the successional teeth being developed anew from the mucous membrane of the mouth , behind the older teeth .
The presence of an enamel or0an he considers to depend upon the existence of an enamel-like layer upon the teeth ; in this lasu icspcet I have arrived at a different conclusion , being convinced that an enamel-organ is of universal occurrence , although the degree of its after development does in a great measure depend upon the amount ( if any ) of enamel to be foimed .
DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH OF FISHES .
connexion with the pulp and attachment to its base ' as in man ; and the process seems to correspond with something more than the ' first and transitory papillary stage of the development of the mammalian teeth .
' " Each pulp is invested by a very distinct basement membrane , whose continuity with that of the mucous membrane of the follicle is very obvious .
The epithelium of the follicle forms a thick layer , which sometimes , when the upper wall is stripped back , adheres to it\#151 ; sometimes remains as a cap investing the papilla .
Even when the latter does not take place shreds of the epithelium frequently adhere to the papilla in the form of irregular , more or less cylindrical nucleated cells ; as often , however , the papilla , whether any of the proper tooth substances be formed or not , has nothing adherent to it , but presents a perfectly smooth sharp edge."\#151 ; " On the Development of the Teeth , " Quart .
Journ. Microsc .
Science , 1853 , p. 151 .
Any fortunate transverse section through the jaws of a rather young dogfish affords an excellent view of the relation of the various parts to one another .
The dense gum or mucous membrane covering the convexity of the jaw is seen to be continuous with the softer and less fibrous tissue from which spring the dentine-papillae near to the base of the jaw ( Plate 31* .
fig. 1 ) , and this again is continuous with the connective-tissue framework of the protecting " thecal " fold .
The sheet of tissue from which , at the base of the jaw , young dentine-papillse originate becomes more fibrous as it passes upwards over the jaw , while those portions which intervene between the bases of the formative papilla ?
have their fibres specially arranged with reference to the teeth , so as to form in some sort ligaments to secure them in place ( see fig. 2 ) , running from the base of one tooth to that of the next .
The youngest dentine-papilla is a simple hemispherical eminence ; that next in age is conical , while above this point the characteristic form of the future tooth is more closely approached .
In the youngest dentine-germs of the dogfish the cells near to the surface are larger than those more deeply situated , and measure about an inch in length ; in older germs the larger size and greater abundance of the cells upon the surface is noteworthy , but nothing at all comparable to the distinct odontoblast layer or membrana eboris , characteristic of the formative organs of hard unvascular dentine , is met with .
It is not , however , so much in the dentine-papillae as in their epithelium that the chief interest lies , especially when the facts described by myself in a former communication upon the development of the teeth in Batrachia and Peptilia f are kept in view for the sake of comparison .
Tracing the epithelium downwards from the exposed convex surface of the jaw fig. 1 ) it is seen , opposite to the interspace between the third and fourth teeth , to leave the jaw and spring across to invest the thecal fold .
In the specimen figured it has been t As well as the sequence of events occurring in the formation of mammalian germs as demonstrated by Prof. Kolliker , loc. cit. 2 o 2 torn at this point , as often happens , and the continuity is therefore interrupted at in the figure .
All that lies below this point is situated , therefore , not in an open groove , but in a closed space , roofed in and filled in by epithelium ; the significance of this fact only becomes fully apparent when taken in conjunction with what is observed in other creatures .
Below this point the epithelium is continued down in the interspace between the jaw and the thecal fold , and forms investing caps to each of the dentine-papillce\#151 ; attaining , opposite to the youngest of the latter , a degree of development apparently in advance of and almost disproportionate to the stage of evolution of the papilla .
Their homologies , and the degree of development which they attain , entitle these epithelial caps to the name of " enamel-organs"* ; and it was first pointed out by Professor Huxley , in the paper to which I have already referred , that enamel-organs are " nothing more than altered epithelium " f. The structure of these enamel-organs is not very dissimilar to that of the corresponding organs in other Fish and Reptiles ; their most conspicuous part is a layer of regular large columnar cells ( " enamel-cells " ) , furnished with nuclei at their attached ends , and measuring from 3-J0 to yjo of an inch in length .
These " enamel-cellsj " are larger than , and different in appearance from , the cells to be met with elsewhere in the epithelium of the mouth ; their occurrence , as well as the character of the residuum of the enamel-organ , justify us in saying that the epithelium " has in this situation undergone a special transformation into an 4 enamel-organ .
' " Unless the specimen has been treated with acid the enamel-cells are often found to be firmly adherent to the cap of forming dentine ; but after prolonged maceration in chromic acid they become detached , as is the case in the sections figured .
The extent to which enamel is formed upon the teeth of Elasmobranch Fishes is variable : it may seem an easy matter to pronounce whether there is or is not enamel upon any particular tooth ; but in actual practice it is a matter of extreme difficulty to pronounce with any thing approaching to certainty upon the presence of an exceedingly thin layer of enamel upon the exterior of a tooth .
No one can doubt the existence of enamel upon the teeth of some skates ; as the formative organs of the teeth of the skates are precisely similar , save in some details of form , to those of the dogfish , I do not doubt that the thin clear external layers upon the teeth of the latter are to be regarded as enamel .
The residual part of the enamel-organ is inconspicuous ; it consists of very much smaller cells , branched and intercommunicating and forming a firmly fibrillated tissue ; it is best seen in the youngest enamel-organ ( fig. 2 ) .
The enamel-organs of the successional teeth are so closely and intimately connected * Cf .
the " enamel-organs " of the dermal spines of dogfish , as described and figured by Hertwig , Jenaische Zeitschrift , 1874 .
t Prof. Kolliker ( Mikros .
Anatomy , B. ii .
p. 114 ) by inference denies the existence of an enamel-organ in the Plagiostomes ; I am not aware of his having since altered his opinion .
DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH OF FISHES .
that they may almost be termed a " compound enamel-organ ; " and they thus recall the manner in which successive enamel-organs bud off from the necks of their predecessors in the newt .
The columnar cells ( enamel-cells ) remain upon the surface of the formed tooth until it has arrived at a point above the protection of the thecal fold ( see the third tooth in fig. 1 ) ; after this they get worn off and lost .
In the interspaces of the teeth the " enamel-organs " lose their distinctive character , and between the older teeth do not markedly differ from the epithelium of other parts of the mouth .
In young dogfishes the partitions between the successional teeth , and also between the contiguous vertical rows , are formed solely by epithelium ; but , as was pointed out by Professor Huxley , in older specimens septa of connective tissue separate each vertical row from those on either side of it , so that a tooth and its successors are contained in a sort of longitudinal canal , the whole series being connected together by the continuity of their enamel-organs .
In very young specimens , before any lip is formed , the transition of the dermal spines on the under surface of the head into the teeth is readily demonstrable .
Thus in fig. 3 , which represents a section of the lower jaw of a very young dogfish , the spines upon the skin are seen to pass without breach of continuity into the teeth , from which they differ mainly in size , and to a very slight extent only in shape* .
It is stated by Gegenbaur ( Manuel d'Anatomic Comparee , p. 738 ) that in Selachicc the mucous membrane of the mouth , as far back as the pharynx , is clothed with spines of structure identical with that of the teeth proper , these spines often occupying those regions which in Ganoids and Teleostei are clothed with conspicuous teeth ; I have not had the opportunity of myself verifying his statement j\ * Prof. Williamson ( Phil. Trans. 1849 ) pointed out the structural resemblance of ganoid and placoid sides to teeth and their homological identity .
t To the above remarks must he added the statement of Hertwig ( Jenaische Zeitschrift , 1874 ) , that the teeth and the dermal spines are developed in a manner precisely similar .
I did not become acquainted with his paper until after this paper had been read before the Boyal Society , or I should have made more frequent reference to his results .
Dr. Herxwig seems to have been working in the same groove as myself , and has published his paper relating to the development of the dermal spines and teeth of sharks a short time before mine was read ; whilst a short time after my paper on the development of Batrachian teeth was read he published a contribution to the same subject .
It is gratifying to find that the figures and descriptions of our independent and almost contemporaneous papers conform very closely , though there are points on which we differ .
Dr. Hertwig gives figures of dermal spines in the process of development in which a papilliform eminence of the dermis is undergoing calcification at its tip , whilst the stratum Malpighii over it is furnishing a crust of enamel , neither the " enamel-organ " nor the " dentine-papilla , " if such they can he called , being markedly specialized nor different from the parts around them , save in contour and in the size of the epithelial cells .
He holds that the increased size \amp ; c. of the dermal spines over the surface of the jaws , where they constitute teeth , is adequately accounted for on the principle of increased use ; that is to say , the excitation of pressure will bring about increased vascularity , and so forth .
His figures are very clear and accurate ; and he has entered into the details of the process of calcification with 2G2 ME .
CHAELES S. TOMES ON THE ^ Teleostei .
Sections of the jaws of the Perch , Pike , Eel , Haddock , Cod , Mackerel , and Trout have been examined , and have been found to agree so closely in most points , 'that it is possible to embody the leading features of the process in a general description .
llie literature of the subject may be disposed of in a very few words ; in the first place , there is the view held by Professor Owen , and concisely expressed by him as follows :\#151 ; " In all fishes the first step is the simple production of a soft vascular papilla from the free surface of the buccal membrane ; " and " In many fishes , e. g. Lojrfiius , Esox , the dental papillae become buried in the membrane from which they rise , and the surface to which their basis is attached becomes the bottom of a closed sac ; " and again , " Here , therefore , is represented the ' follicular ' stage of the development of a mammalian tooth ; but the ' eruptive ' stage takes place without previous enclosure of the follicle and matrix in the substance of the jawbone .
" ( Anatomy of Vertebrates , vol. i. p. 382 .
) A much more accurate account of the process as it occurs in the mackerel is embodied in Professor Huxley 's paper , already several times alluded to ; the fact that the papilla is never free and that it is surmounted by an enamel-organ derived from and continuous with the oral epithelium is clearly laid down ; and Kollikee mentions that the teeth of all osseous fish are developed in sacs not altogether from free papillae .
Nevertheless the exact nature of the process has not , so far as I know , been described by any previous author .
In all cases the whole series of changes take place beneath an unbroken surface , and often at some little depth ; in this respect , however , differences are met with upon different bones in the mouth of the same fish , so that this would appear to be influenced by accidents of situation .
From the deepest layer of the oral epithelium , which is very thick in many fish , there dips downwards a blunt-ended process , descending into the loose connective tissue beneath .
When it approaches the surface of the bone , a dentine-pulp is developed in the subjacent connective tissue , which it eventually covers over like a cap or bell-jar .
The epithelial process , making its way downwards , is recognizable before the dentine-papilla can be distinguished ; its end becomes transformed into an enamel-organ , but no very definite capsule is formed around the dental germ .
There is therefore no " papillary " stage and no " follicular " stage , in the sense in which these terms are ordinarily used ; the only appearance at all suggestive of the existence of free papillae with which I am familiar is to be met with in the haddock , in wdiich fish the tissues above a forming tooth-germ become elevated in places into a sort of papilla , which is , however , altogether external to and distinct from any part of the dental germ , which latter constitutes less than one third of its bulk and is far below its surface .
more minuteness than I have done .
But I do not think that the grounds which he has adduced for asserting the existence of a membrana preformativa in the sharks are adequate to weigh against the reasons which have led Waldeyer and others to doubt its existence ; and my own researches in this direction lead me to the belief , long ago expressed by my father , that the appearances described are susceptible of a different interpretation .
DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH OF FISHES .
The general relationship of the dental germs to the oral epithelium , to the already formed teeth , and to the bone is shown in the perch in fig. 4 , and in the sharp-nosed eel in fig. 6 ; the process in the two fish is so closely similar that it seems unnecessary to separately describe their tooth-germs .
An early stage is represented in fig. 7 , in which the inward-growing epithelial process has formed an embracing cap or enamel-organ , but no calcification has as yet occurred .
The enamel-cells are of very large size over the apex of the dentine-papilla , measuring about of an inch ; but at a somewhat later stage ( fig. 8 ) the large enamel-cells are seen to be confined to the immediate summit of the tooth , those a little further down ( e ' in the figure ) being very much smaller ( y^o 'f an inch ) .
This same point is shown in the tooth-sac of a perch ( fig. 5 ) , in which the cells of the enamel-organ over the summit are large , but those extending down the sides of the tooth small and comparatively inconspicuous .
At a still later stage ( fig. 9 ) the large cells on the apex have disappeared , and the whole enamel-organ consists of the smaller cells upon the sides of the dentine-cap , which are about 1 ' nioo 'f an inch in length .
This peculiar configuration of the enamel-organ has relation to the partial disposition of the enamel upon the tooth ; thus the tooth of the sharp-nosed eel ( fig. 10 ) has a sharp conical cap of enamel upon its summit , the enamel being absent , or so thin that I cannot be sure of its existence , upon the sides of the tooth* .
We may thus say that we have exemplified within the boundaries of a single tooth-sac a functional and a rudimentary enamel-organ ; and it is interesting to observe that the appearance of the rudimentary or lower portion of the enamel-organ closely resembles that of the entire rudimentary enamel-organ of the armadillo , which I have elsewhere described ( Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Sci. 1874 ) .
The fact that the development of the " enamel-cells " bears a direct relation to the thickness of the enamel to be formed also lends support to the view ( which on other grounds I am strongly inclined to support ) that the enamel is formed by the direct conversion of the enamel-cells into the hard tissue .
It is difficult otherwise to account for the contrast presented by the length of the cells in the different parts of the enamel-organ ; and I may add that the aggregate length of the cells and the enamel cap already formed in fig. 8 just makes up the thickness of the enamel cap upon an average completed tooth .
* The existence of terminal caps of enamel , a character upon which alone Professor Owen has founded his fossil genus " Ganaerodus , " is apparently by no means uncommon ; I have found them in the eel , the perch , the newt , and the salamander ; and as they are very easily lost in making sections , it is probable that they are present upon many teeth on which their presence has not as yet been demonstrated .
The positive determination of the absence of a thin layer of enamel upon the exterior of a tooth is a matter of no little difficulty , although it might at first sight appear easy enough : the double contour which is due to the thickness of the section can hardly be with certainty distinguished from a very thin structureless external layer , though the use of the dark-ground illumination will often bring the enamel layer out distinctly , owing to the difference in its refractive index .
However , as I find the presence of an enamel-organ to be universal , the presence or absence of a merely rudimentary deposit of enamel ceases to be a fact of so much importance .
Of the dentine-germs or papillae there is little to be said ; they have a well-marked odontoblast layer , especially in the eel , and their bases contribute nothing to the formation of a special capsule .
In fact the tooth-germs are only bounded by adventitious capsules , due to the condensation of the loose connective tissue around them .
The enamel-organs long retain a connexion with the oral epithelium , which , however , becomes lost after a time , as by the elongation of the tooth its summit soon passes upwards into the substance of the oral epithelium ; the " neck of the enamel-organ " is seen at b in figs. 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 .
The formation of new dental germs is perpetual , each enamel-germ being formed de novo , without being derived from any part of the earlier germs .
So far I can confirm the statements of Prof. Owen , that " the germs of the new teeth are developed , like those of the old , from the free surface of the buccal membrane throughout the whole period of succession\#151 ; a circumstance peculiar to the present class .
" But I cannot agree in the further statement that " it is very conspicuous in the cartilaginous fishes , \amp ; c. ; " for in these the enamel-organ of each new tooth is derived from a part of that of its predecessor , in a manner closely analogous to that observed by myself in reptiles , and by Kolliker in the formation of the germ of the permanent teeth in man .
To the manner of attachment of the teeth of the eel I may briefly allude , as it is shown in fig. 10 , although I have already described it more fully elsewhere ( Transactions of the Odontological Society , 1874 ) .
Each tooth is perched on the summit of a hollow bony column , into which its formative pulp extends for a short distance .
This little column of bone , which is specially developed for and renewed again after the loss of each tooth , is formed around the base of the tooth-pulp , which contracts below the point where dentine ceases to be formed .
The dentine ends sharply where the bone begins ; not the smallest fusion of the two tissues appears to take place ; and if we imagine dentine to be formed in the lower portion of the pulp , where it enters the hollow bony support , wre should have a sort of rudimentary socket formed .
This , however , never takes place in the eel : the dentine ends in a slightly rounded border at a point altogether above the bone .
The teeth of the perch , and indeed of many other fishes , are similarly attached ; indeed I think the generalization may safely be laid down that in all cases a special development of " bone of attachment " takes place .
The tooth of the mackerel ( fig- 13 ) is somewhat differently attached ; it is developed in a furrow running round the thin edges of the jaws , and when it is completed and erupted it becomes attached to the permanent bony walls of that furrow by a development of little bony trabeculie which bridge over the interval and so fix it in its place .
The development of the teeth of the mackerel does not in essential respects diffei from that described in the eel and the perch , save that the situation of the tooth-geim is peculiar , as has already been mentioned ( fig. 12 ) .
DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH OF FISHES .
The enamel-organ , which attains but a feeble development , was seen by Prof. Huxley to be continuous with the oral epithelium ; to his description I have only to add that the first step towards the formation of a new tooth-germ is the budding inwards of the oral epithelium ( which has been lost from the surface of the section figured ) .
The tooth-germs of the pike originate in precisely the same manner as those above described ; but it is not unusual to see two tooth-germs of different age apparently destined to succeed to the same tooth , a thing which I have not observed in the haddock , the eel , or the perch .
The enamel-organ of the pike attains to a development intermediate between that of the mackerel and that of the eel or perch ; from the regular appearance and considerable size of its component cells , which measure from twoo 1 ' 800 'f an inch , I should anticipate that a layer of enamel would be found upon its teeth , which is apparently the case , though it is not very thick .
Although the enamel-organs of all these fish consist primarily of two rows of cells , and traces of their original formation may be in places discerned , as at the base of the enamel-organ in fig. 11 , yet that layer of columnar cells which goes by the name of the " enamel epithelium " so greatly preponderates that the outer layer is soon lost sight of .
No stellate reticulum separates these two layers in any fish or reptile with which I am acquainted .
There are many points of importance which I have not touched upon in this short and imperfect paper\#151 ; such , for example , as the presence or absence of a basement membrane or membrana preformativa upon the dentine-papillae , as well as the subsequent details of the process of calcification .
My object has , however , been merely to give a general outline of the subject , which I hope at some future time to fill in with greater detail .
My examination of the process of the development of the teeth having been now extended to a considerable number of Mammals , Reptiles , Batrachians , and Fish , justifies me in drawing some general conclusions as to the structure of the tooth-germs , the more important of which may be summarized as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
It is desirable to entirely abandon the terms " papillary , " " follicular , " and u eruptive " stage , inasmuch as these are hypothetical and arbitrary , and correspond to no serial conditions verified by observation .
2 .
In all animals the tooth-germ consists primarily of two structures , and two only\#151 ; the dentine-germ and the enamel-germ .
The simplest tooth-germ never comprises any thing more .
When a capsule is developed it is derived partly from a secondary upgrowth of the tissue at the base of the dentine-germ , partly from an accidental condensation of the surrounding connective tissue .
3 .
The existence of an enamel-organ is quite universal , and is in no way dependent upon the presence or absence of enamel upon the completed tooth , although the degree to which it is developed has distinct relation to the thickness of the future enamel .
The presence of an enamel-organ in the foetal narwal has been described by Professor Turner ( Journal of Anatomy and Physiology , 1873 ) ; its occurrence in a foetal armadillo by myself ( Quart .
Journ. of Micros .
Science , 1874 ) ; while in the present paper instances of its occurrence where little or no enamel is formed are noted .
4 .
So far as my researches go , a stellate reticulum , constituting a large bulk of the enamel-organ , is a structure confined to the Mammalia f ( it is absent in the armadillo , and I should infer , from Mr. Turner 's description , in the narwal ) .
5 .
As laid down by Professor PIuxley and Professor Kolliker , the dentine-papilla is beyond all question a dermal structure , the enamel-organ an epithelial or epidermic structure .
As I believe it can be shown that the enamel is formed by an actual conversion of the cells of the enamel-organ , this makes the dentine dermal , and the enamel epidermic structures .
6 .
In Teleostei the new enamel-germs are formed directly from the oral epithelium and are new formations arising quite independently of any portion of the tooth-germs of the teeth which have preceded them .
In mammals and reptiles , and in some , at all events , of the Batrachia , new tooth-germs are derived from portions of their predecessors .
7 .
In all animals examined the phenomena are very uniform : a process dips in from the oral epithelium , often to a great depth ; the end of the process becomes transformed into an enamel-organ coincidently with the formation of a dentine-papilla beneath it .
The differences lie rather in such minor details as the extent to which a capsule is developed ; and no such generalization as that the teeth of fish in their development represent only an earlier stage of the development of the teeth of Mammalia can be drawn .
Description of the Plate .
PLATE 31* .
Pig .
1 .
Transverse section of the lower jaw of a young dogfish , canicula .
To the right is seen the thecal protecting fold of mucous membrane , slightly displaced .
Between this and the jaw is seen the chain of enamel-organs , which , if the parts were exactly in , would solidly fill up the whole interspace .
The epithelium , where it passes across from the jaw to the thecal fold , between the third and fourth tooth , is torn across .
a. Oral epithelium .
b. Neck of enamel-organ connecting it with oral epithelium .
c. Special " bone of attachment .
" f It is also to be found in the poison-canal of the partly calcified tooth-germs of poisonous snakes , as I have described and figured in a paper upon the development of poison-fangs , in course of publication in the Philosophical Transactions .
DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH OF FISHES .
d. Dentine-papilla .
e. Enamel-organ .
ex. Rudimentary portion of enamel-organ .
f ( fig. 1 ) .
Point of passage of the oral epithelium across on to the thecal fold .
g. Cap of enamel .
h. Bone of jaw ( or cartilage in figs. 1 , 2 , 3 ) .
1 .
Formed dentine , or completed tooth .
sp. Dermal spines .
( The lettering applies to all the figures .
) Fig. 2 .
More highly magnified portion of the same section , showing the structure of the enamel-organs , the relation of the dentine-papillae to the mucous membrane , and the manner of fixation of the teeth .
Fig. 3 .
Section of the lower jaw of a dogfish about 3 inches long .
The continuity of the skin carrying dermal spines with the mucous membrane and its teeth is well seen .
Fig. 4 .
General view of the relations of the oral epithelium to the young tooth-sacs ; three teeth in place , which have lost their enamel tips , are shown , while on the right the lip is seen in outline .
From the lower jaw of a perch , x 30 .
Fig. 5 .
Tooth-sac of a perch , showing the continuity of the oral epithelium with the enamel-organ , the large enamel-cells at the upper part of the latter , and its rudimentary lower portion , \amp ; c. , X 70 .
Fig. 6 .
Transverse section of the lower jaw of a sharp-nosed eel ; for the sake of clearness the subepithelial connective tissue has been left out .
Fig. 7 .
Very young tooth-sac of an eel , x 100 .
Fig. 8 .
Tooth-sac a little more advanced , in which more dentine and enamel have been formed : the aborting of the enamel-cells at the lower edge of the enamel-organ is noticeable , X 70 .
Fig. 9 .
Tooth-sac yet more advanced , in which the terminal cap of enamel is complete ?
and the enamel-organ has almost disappeared at the upper end of the sac , X 30 .
Fig. 10 .
Single tooth of a sharp-nosed eel , showing its enamel cap and its supporting hollow column of bone , X 20 .
Fig. 11 .
Young tooth-sac of a pike , x 70 .
Fig. 12 .
Section of the lower jaw of a mackerel .
The young tooth-sac is seen to be lodged in a groove in the edge of the bone : the oral epithelium is lost over the surface of this groove , but the neck of the enamel-organ is distinguishable , x 40 .
Fig. 13 .
Tooth of a mackerel , showing the peculiarity of the attachment of the perfected tooth , which is fixed in place by numerous slight trabeculae of new bone , which unite it to the margins of the groove in the edges of the jaws , X 15* Phil. Trans. 1876 .
Plate 31 * W.West Jk 0 ?
Uth .

