V. Notes of Researches on the Poly-Ammonias."--No .
V. Action of Bichloride of Carbon on Aniline .
By A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received June 17 , 1858 .
In two former notes I have described the deportment of aniline as the prototype of primary monamines with the bromineand chlorinecompounds of biatomic and triatomic radicals .
It was found that under the influence of these agents , two equivalents of aniline coalesce to a more complex molecule , retaining the chemical character of the constituents ; the action of bibromide of ethylene and chloroform producing respectively-Diethylene-diphenyl-diamine C32 H,18 N , ( C 114)2 " N2 I(C12 11A ) ( C2 H ) f/ Formyl-diphenyl-diamine .
26 H12 N2= ( CI ) 2 N. N , .
The result of these experiments led me to examine the behaviour of aniline under the influence of organic chlorides containing even a larger number of chlorine equivalents .
The agent selected was the body well known by the name of bichloride of carbon , i. e. tetrachlorinetted marsh-gas , or chloroform , in which the residuary equivalent of hydrogen is replaced by chlorine .
Aniline and bichloride of carbon do not act upon each other at the common temperature ; at the temperature of boiling water a change is perceptible , but even after several days ' exposure the reaction is far from being complete .
On submitting , however , a mixture of 3parts by weight of aniline and 1 part of bichloride of carbon , both in the anhydrous state , for about thirty hours to a temperature of 170 ?
C. , the liquid will be found to be converted into a black mass , either soft and viscid , or hard and brittle , according to time and temperature .
This black mass , which adheres firmly to the tubes in which the reaction has been accomplished , is a mixture of several bodies .
On exhausting with water , a portion dissolves , while a more or less solid resin remains behind .
The aqueous solution yields , on addition of potassa , an oily precipitate containing a considerable portion of unchanged aniline ; on boiling this precipitate with dilute potassa in a retort , the aniline distils over , whilst a viscid oil remains behind , which gradually solidifies with a crystalline structure .
Washing with cold alcohol and two or three crystallizations from boiling alcohol render this body perfectly white and pure , a very soluble substance of a magnificent crimson colour remaining in solution .
The portion of the black mass which is insoluble in water dissolves almost entirely in dilute hydrochloric acid , from which solution it is reprecipitated by the alkalies in the form of an amorphous pink or dingy precipitate soluble in alcohol with a rich crimson colour .
The greater portion of this body consists of the same colouring principle which accompanies the white crystalline substance .
On the other hand , considerable quantities of this crystalline body are occasionally present in the product insoluble in water .
The crystalline body is insoluble in water , difficultly soluble in boiling alcohol , soluble in ether .
From the hot alcoholic solution it crystallizes slowly on cooling in elongated four-sided plates , often grouped round a common centre ; this substance is a well defined base ; it freely dissolves in acids , from which , on the addition of the alkalies , it is thrown down as a dazzling white precipitate .
The analysis of this new base has led to the expression C38 H17 3 ' a formula corroborated by the analysis of a fine , somewhat difficultly soluble hydrochlorate , C38 H117 N3 , 1C1 , which is obtained by dissolving an excess of the new base in hot diluted hydrochloric acid , when it crystallizes on cooling .
&amp; further confirmation was furnished by the examination of a bright yellow platinum-salt , C38 H117 N3 , HC1 , PtCl2 .
Both the hydrochlorate and the platinum-salt are extremely soluble in an excess of hydrochloric acid , which has therefore to be carefully avoided in their preparation .
The phase of the action of bichloride of carbon on aniline , which gives rise to the formation of the new base , is expressed by the equation 6C12 H7 N+ C , C1 =C38 H17 N3 , HC1 + 3(C1 H17 N , HC1 ) .
What is the constitution of the new body ?
It is obviously derived from 3 molecules of aniline from which 4 equivalents of hydrogen have been eliminated by the 4 equivalents of chlorine in the bichloride , the carbon entering as a biatomic molecule into the complex atom .
The new body would thus become a triamine , C2 " 1 ( C , 12)3 1.N3 HE J It is however more probable that the carbon replaces in the form of cyanogen , when the new compound appears in the light of a diamine , as C2 N Cyan-triphenyl-diamine ( C,1 H )3 N2 .
The new compound thus becomes closely allied to melaniline , which may be viewed as diphenyl-cyan-diamine , C2N Melaniline C2 H 113 N3= ( C12 H1 ) N2 .
H3 J It deserves to be noticed , that in its appearance , and in its general characters , cyan-triphenyl-diamine resembles melaniline in a remarkable manner .
If we are entitled to view the new body which forms the subject of this note as a cyanogen-substitute , we have not less than four welldefined diamines of the phenyl-series .
Diethylene-diphenyl-diamine C4 H2 } N2 .
( C2 HI ) " ' 1 Formyl-diphenyl-diamine ... .
( C12 H)2 N2 HJ C2 N ] Cyan-diphenyl-diamine ... ... ( C12 HI)2 N2 .
H3CN Cyan-triphenyl-diamine ... ... ( C11H)3 N2 .
H2J I intend to continue the inquiry still further in this direction , and propose next to examine the deportment of aniline with the so-called protochloride ( C4 C14 ) and sesquichloride of carbon ( C4 Cg1 ) .

