1881 .
] On Electrical Stimulation of the Frog 's Heart .
The application of this solitary wave in air to the carrying of sound .
Errors of the phrases in general use for the explanation of the conveyance of sound .
_ .
My theory of the mode in which sound is propagated as distinguished from the mode of its creation .
Consideration of the aerial wave of sound , its analogy to the solitary wave in water .
The depth of the air ocean and its correspondence to that of the water ocean .
The speed of the solitary or carrier wave in each element .
The speed is due to the depth .
What happens in the interior of the solitary wave in water ?
The same motions take place in the same nature of aerial wave .
Elucidation by the comparison of three equivalent oceans .
Similarity and dissimilarity between the oscillating waves and the carrier or sohtary wave .
Musical sounds in their melodic and harmonic relations to this wave .
Numerical nomenclature of sounds .
Kow the message of the sound wave is delivered to the brain .
VI .
" On the Effect of Electrical Stimulation of the Frog 's Heart , and its Modification by Cold , Heat , and the Action of Drugs .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.B.S. , and Theodore Cash , M.D. Received May 16 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) From the results of the recorded experiments conducted on the frog 's heart in its normal position and still exercising its circulatory function , we have found\#151 ; I. That electrical stimulation by a single induced shock has either an obvious effect on the contraction and rhythm of the organ , oi no such effect is apparent .
II .
That the effect is modified by\#151 ; ( a. ) The time of the cardiac cycle in which stimulation falls .
Thus Marey has already shown that a so-called refractory period is demonstrable under certain conditions.^ Well-marked variations in latency when the stimulation is potent to induce a systolic contraction are to be recognised .
( b. ) The strength of the stimulation applied .
Refractory periods possible under minimal stimulation can no longer be demonstrated * The conditions of this refractory period , or " period of diminished excitability , " have been very fully investigated by Dr. Burdon Sanderson and Mr. Page .
Proc. Koy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 373 .
384 On the Action of Ammonia and its Salts , fyc .
[ June IB under maximal , whilst a disturbance of the relationship of auricular and ventricular contractions may be induced .
( c. ) The area of the heart to which stimulation is applied.\#151 ; A refrae tory period demonstrable under stimulation of the ventricle may cease to occur when the sinus venosus is the seat of irritation .
( d. ) The action of heat , cold , and Thus cold prolongs the systole , the refractory period , and the latency of an induced contraction ; whilst strychnia , leaving the curve of systole unaltered , lengthens the refractory period to a marked degree .
VII .
" On the Action of Ammonia and its Salts , and of Hydrocyanic Acid upon Muscle and Nerve .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Theodore Cash , M.D. Received May 26 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) Ammonia.\#151 ; The curve caused by stimulating either muscle or nerve is prolonged .
Fatigue increases this prolongation much more rapidly than it would do in the case of a healthy muscle .
The viscosity , or residual contraction , remaining after active contraction is much more increased in the case of direct ( muscle ) than of indirect ( nerve ) stimulation .
Chloride of Ammonium.\#151 ; A powerful , though slightly lengthened , contraction occurs on direct stimulation .
The muscle , as stimulated from the nerve , yields a few ( if any ) lengthened and feeble contractions , and then ceases to respond altogether to stimulation .
Nitrate of Ammonium.\#151 ; The nerve , in this case , is not more affected by the poison than the muscle .
If the poisoning be very complete , neither direct nor indirect stimulation has any effect ; if it is not so , the curve is observed to be prolonged .
In the case of both , but especially in that of the directly stimulated muscle , the contraction remaining after stimulation is very extensive .
Nitrite of Ammonium.\#151 ; If poisoning be complete , no reaction occurs either on direct or indirect stimulation ; if not , the curves of both are much prolonged , even more so than in the case of the nitrate .
The rapid repetition of stimulation causes the curve to become enormously prolonged , whilst the viscosity after the active contraction is much increased .
Cyanide of Ammonium .
\#151 ; Stimulation of the nerve produces no effect whatever ; whilst that of the muscle causes a considerable though prolonged curve .
Viscosity is much increased .
The curve of hydrocyanic acid alone , yielded by both direct and indirect stimulation , is prolonged , but it neither shows the length nor the viscosity of the

