545 Preliminary Note on the Occurrence of New Variety of Trypanosomiasis on the Island of Zanzibar .
By Alexander Edington , M.D. Edin .
, D.P.H. Edin .
and Glasgow , F.R.S. Edin .
( Communicated by J. Rose Bradford , For .
Sec. R.S. Received August 5 , \#151 ; Read November 12 , 1908 .
) Neither on Zanzibar nor on the adjacent island of Pemba has the occurrence of trypanosomiasis among animals ever been recorded or suspected .
The population of Zanzibar , about 170,000 , consists mostly of natives .
There is a considerable proportion of Indians , and a very small number of Europeans .
Horses are comparatively few in number , but there are many donkeys , mules , cattle and goats .
Donkeys and mules are largely obtained from the East ; cattle and goats are imported mainly from the mainland of Africa , while horses have been obtained from various countries .
The island itself is of coral formation and has much swampy ground .
Apart from mosquitoes , there are very few blood-sucking flies : neither Tsetse flies nor Stomoxys have been found .
On February 9 , 1908 , Mr. Dubash , an Indian veterinary officer attached to the Sultan 's stables , noticed , in a livery stable belonging to an Indian , a horse which showed well-marked swelling of the abdomen and sheath .
He at once drew my attention to it , when the animal was made the subject of investigation .
The animal was a bay Arab , entire , aged .
It showed evident signs of weakness , while its temperature was 103o,6 F. The front of the chest , forelegs , abdomen , sheath and hind legs , all showed evidence of oedematous swelling .
The conjunctiva and Schneiderian membrane were pale , but no petechise were observable .
No other horse in the stable showed any evidence of being similarly affected .
Blood was drawn from the ear and also directly from the jugular vein .
With this blood , films were prepared for microscopical examination .
On examination , the red corpuscles were found to be very markedly vacuolated , and among these were found some very small trypanosomes .
Their number was , however , so small that considerable care had to be taken in searching for them , and it may be at once said that at no time were they ever very numerous .
Emaciation , which was already marked in the horse , progressed until death , which occurred on February 18 .
VOL. lxxx.\#151 ; b. 2 x Dr. A. Edington .
Occurrence of a [ Aug. 5 Post-mortem Examination .
No petechise were observable on the conjunctivse , nor on the Schneiderian membrane , but both were hyperaemic .
On removing the skin from the dependent portion of the thorax and abdomen , yellow solidified oedematous material was found , about an inch in thickness , which extended from the sternum to the hind legs .
The blood was pale in colour , but the coagulation power was little , if at all , diminished .
Muscles.\#151 ; These were pale in colour and somewhat atrophied .
Lungs.\#151 ; These organs were slightly oedematous and pale in colour ; a moderate amount of hypostatic congestion was seen on one side .
Heart.\#151 ; The contents of the pericardium were not determinable , as the cavity had been accidentally opened during dissection .
Both the epi- and the endocardium showed numerous petechial haemorrhages , varying in size from a pin-point to patches a quarter of an inch in diameter .
On the outside they were most numerous near the interventricular groove , and on the inner side at , and around , the attachments of the chordeae tendineae .
Liver.\#151 ; The organ was fairly normal in size , oedematous in consistence , and almost normal in colour .
Spleen.\#151 ; This organ was only slightly enlarged , pale on section , and of fair consistence .
Lymphatic Glands.\#151 ; These were enlarged and oedematous .
No other organ called for special remark .
Inoculation Experiments .
Owing to the difficulty experienced in obtaining animals , the various animals dealt with were not all inoculated on the same date .
Horse.\#151 ; A horse was injected intravenously with 5 c.c. of the blood of the infected horse on February 18 , 1908 .
The temperature of the animal 41 ' 4\lt ; f J S9 ' \#187 ; e ?
feJb .
nan Date 7* / nrijO / Q / 3 20 3/ 13 25 2* 25 26 27 y r 25 l \#187 ; / 2 3 + r 5 6 7 5 3 / o / / M P / 2 / J M / 5 M P J6 / / rn(Z 106 ' M E M E M E M E M E M E M E M E M E n L M E M1 E M E A M E M E n t n t n t io^5 P A i \#171 ; 104 ' 1 k A 11 vr / V J s \#163 ; 105 ' / V/ V V V / 3 g 102 ?
2.101 ' I \ A 1 \#163 ; locf 99 ?
/ \ % l K / V \ r~ V 96 ?
Horse.\#151 ; Inoculated by intravenous injection of 5 c.c. fresh blood of infected horse on February 18 , 1908 .
1908 .
] New Variety of Trypanosomiasis .
began to rise on the evening of February 27 , but already , on February 25 trypanosomes , few but very lively , had been observed in the blood .
On February 28 they were fairly numerous and at their maximum , since from this time up till March 8 they appeared in very few numbers .
On March 2 the sheath of the penis and the scrotum were much swollen , and on March 4 the animal was obviously sick , standing with head down and refusing food .
By March 7 , however , the scrotal swelling was almost entirely reduced ; trypanosomes had disappeared from the blood , and the animal looked much better .
I left by steamer for England on the morning of March 8 , and am indebted for the subsequent history to members of the staff of the Health Department .
The improvement noted previous to my departure had been merely transient , since emaciation still progressed with some fever , and the animal died on March 16 .
At the post-mortem examination solidified yellow oedematous material had been found under the skin .
The spleen and liver are said to have been congested .
Donkey.\#151 ; This animal was injected intravenously with 3 c.c. of the blood of the infected horse on February 14 .
Within the three days subsequent to this operation , the temperature was above normal , but this is probably to be accounted for by the change of diet and its usual surroundings .
From this time onward nothing abnormal was observed , nor was anything of the nature of fever seen .
It was discharged from experiment on March 16 , when it seemed to be in perfect health .
Ho trypanosomes were seen in its blood at any time .
Dog.\#151 ; A small pariah dog was inoculated by subcutaneous injection with 3 c.c. of infected blood on February 14 .
Examinations of its blood were frequently made , but no trypanosomes were seen at any period up till the time of my departure for England , and the animal was discharged from experiment on March 10 , when it seemed in perfect health .
It has to be noted that the inoculation in this case was by subcutaneous injection , and it is very possible that infection might have been made had some other means of inoculation been used .
Goat.\#151 ; A goat was inoculated by intravenous injection with 3 c.c. of infected blood of the horse , on February 14 .
During the first four days the temperature was slightly above the normal , and then subsided .
On February 24 , however , it began to rise , and attained a maximum on March 3 , when it had reached to 106 ' F. During the subsequent four days it was steadily falling .
At no period were trypanosomes ever found in the blood , nor did the animal at any stage ever show visible signs of any indisposition .
2x2 [ Aug. 5 , Dr. A. Edington .
Occurrence of a Feb. Afar .
Date a / / 23 ML zo_ JfL .
m 2* w\ / z a a 0 a 7 S a a a a E a T/ me ME ME ME HE HE ME El ME ME HE HE HE ME HE ME HE ME El ME ME ME ME ME HE ME HI El ME El ME 106 ' 4 104 ' l 105 ' |l02 ' gjioi ' i ioo ' H 9SP 96 ' 1 ll / L A z i \r z J 3 !
eML 3 ^ r\#151 ; X i \r r r \ W N N ; ~r y r r w J V " v N ' .
r42 ' ^41 ' r59 ' \#163 ; l \#163 ; r58 ' ^37 ' Goat.\#151 ; Inoculated by intravenous injection of 3 c.c. of fresh blood of infected horse on February 14 , 1908 .
Ox.\#151 ; A young ox was inoculated by intravenous injection with 3 c.c. of the blood of the infected horse on February 14 .
The temperature of the animal was never elevated .
From February 20 until the 22nd of the same month it underwent a descent , reaching to 99 ' , but had again regained the usual mean , about 102 ' , on February 25 .
Trypanosomes appeared in the blood on February 27 , were fairly numerous by March 2 , after which they became few in numbers .
The animal never showed the slightest sign of illness .
Monkey.\#151 ; A small grey monkey was inoculated by subcutaneous injection on March 2 with 2 c.c. of the blood of the ox which , at this time , showed numerous trypanosomes .
The monkey was then taken on board the ship with me and seemed in fairly good health throughout the voyage .
Nothing was observed in any way abnormal until the morning of May 17 , when it suddenly became affected with abdominal pain and passed into violent tremors .
Convulsive seizures were then observed , with biting movements somewhat epileptiform in character , and within a couple of hours the animal died .
On making post-mortem section the blood was found to be somewhat thin in character .
There was some acute peritonitis .
The spleen was pale in colour and slightly enlarged while the lower end was dark in colour .
This dark portion was clearly delimited from the rest of the organ .
No other abnormal condition was observed .
On examination of the blood , chains of streptococci were observed but not very numerously .
No trypanosomes were ever observed in this animal .
Guinea-pigs.\#151 ; One was inoculated by subcutaneous injection on February 10 with about 1 c.c. of the blood of the infected horse and again on March 2 with 2 c.c. of the blood of the ox , which at this time showed numerous trypanosomes .
One was injected intraperitoneally on February 18 with 1 c.c. of the blood of the infected horse and the operation was repeated on March 2 , using 2 c.c. of the blood of the ox .
Trypanosomes were not observed at any period up 1908 .
] New Variety of T to March 8 .
The former animal died at sea during a heavy gale , while the other was sent to the Brown Institute after my arrival in London on April 6 .
Rabbits.\#151 ; One was injected intraperitoneally with 2 c.c. of the blood of the ox on March 2 while the other was injected , at the same time , with 2 c.c. of the same blood , subcutaneously .
The subcutaneously injected rabbit was despatched from the port of Marseilles to M. Mesnil , at the Pasteur Institute in Paris , and I have had the pleasure of several reports from him on the matter .
It would seem that no trypanosomes have ever appeared in that animal , which remains still in good health .
The intraperitoneally injected animal was taken by me to the Brown Institute and there I found several trypanosomes in the blood .
They were , however , extremely few and appeared very sluggish as compared with those seen in the horses and the ox .
Rats.\#151 ; Two large grey rats were fed with infected horse blood on February 14 but never seemed to have become infected .
Description of the Trypanosome .
Its length as seen in the blood of the horses appeared to be from 13 to 16 p , the mean being 15 p. The breadth measured from 0 75 p to 1*25 , the mean being 1 p. The blunt end is sometimes rounded but in many it tapers to a sharp point .
The nucleus is placed about 4 p from the blunt end and measures from 2 p to 3 p in length , being most usually about 2 p. The breadth approximates to 1 pbut extremes may be found from 0*75 to 1*25 p. The thickness of the parasite is usually greatest between the centrosome and the nucleus .
The centrosome , which rarely showed evidence of division , is placed close to the blunt extremity ; sometimes a space about 1 in extent intervenes between it and the actual extremity .
In size , this trypanosome somewhat resembles the but is smaller and rather more delicate .
M. Mesnil , who has kindly given me his opinion on the parasite , confirms me in this view , and states that he also considers it as being different from the T. congolense , which latter M. Laveran considers as distinct from the T. dimorphon .
On my arrival in London , the infected guinea-pig , rabbit , and monkey were placed under the charge of Professor Hose Bradford , who kindly arranged to have further investigation made of this interesting parasite .
I take this opportunity of expressing my thanks to him for his kind assistance .

