LII .
An Account of the Effects of Lightning at Southmolton in Devonshire , by Joseph Palmer , Esquire .
ON Thursday the 6th day of June 1751 , about 3 o ' clock in the afternoon , ( that day , and some others before , having been extremely hot and sultry , and the wind pretty strong in the south-east ) a flash of lightning attended with an uncommon thunder-clap , which immediately followed or rather accompanied it , fell upon the windows and walls of the church and steeple of South-Moulton in Devon , greatly damaging them .
Read Jan. 9 , 1752 .
The lightning seemed to divide itself into three parts , one of which struck on the east angle of the south-east buttress of the chancel near the ground , and made a large opening in the same : it likewise very much rent and shattered a large stone just above the aforesaid opening , as if done by the force of gunpowder ; it split another large stone adjoining , and shivered the wall near the foundation , in a very odd manner .
Another part of the lightning took off a slice , about 3 inches thick , of a very large angular stone on the west side of the same buttress , forced inwards a large free-stone window of the church , and greatly shattered it ( tho ' it broke very little of the glass ) insomuch that it is thought it must be taken down and rebuilt : it then passed cross the church , and damaged the north side , entered a passage before the vicar 's house , which was in a direct line of its course , and beat a stone of the floor to pieces .
A person standing by the south window within the church , at the time when the lightning happened , felt a blow cross his foot , as if it had been taken off with an ax ; and others near him had strokes in different parts of their bodies , the fire-ball , as they called it , passing between them .
Beside this ball of fire , they observed likewise another ball , to appearance , which ( after damaging 3 or 4 more large stone window-frames , and making breaches in divers places of those stone frames and south wall ) rolled towards the west end of the church , where it entered the belfry : it there broke a very large stone of the floor near the west door into several pieces , and threw a great part of the stone from its place , and stopped the church clock , which was near it : from thence ascending the steeple , it divided the great iron rod or spindle of about 50 feet long ( composed of several joints fixed into square sockets , and conveyed from the clock for turning the hand of a dial , placed in the south front of the steeple ) out of their respective sockets , which were much forced and rent : broke and twisted the iron wire of the chimes and clock from the belfry to the bellchamber ( being about eighty feet high ) in a most extraordinary manner ; some of the wire being much burnt , and in sundry places , melted into little grains .
It then entered the bell-chamber , threw a large bell off the brass it hung upon ; forced the said brass out of the beam , broke off part of the gudgeon , and .
shattered the said beam and frame of the bell : made several breaches in the east and west , but mostly south walls and quoins , split the arch of the south window , which was over the said bell , and drove out some large stones near it .
It then passed out of the steeple about that place , and struck off part of the arch on the outside , together with a large piece of the stone window-frame adjoining ; then ascended about four feet higher ( which was near the top of the steeple ) and beat off a large piece of an old carved Gothic stone head , without injuring the leaden pipe , which came out of its mouth .
Though many people happened to be in different parts of the church , yet providentially no one received any hurt .
The belfry was so full of smoke , attended with a strong sulphureous smell , that they , who went thither immediately after the accident , were almost suffocated ; and they apprehended , that some part of the church or steeple was on fire , and a watch was kept all night in the church for fear of what might happen .
N. B. The lime and stone were in many places so far affected with the lightning , as to be easily reduced into a powder , by the bare pressure of the finger .
About the same time of the day , two horned cattle in a wood , near two miles south-west of the town of Moulton , were struck dead under a large oak , and the tree itself appeared much scorched .
And in another parish , about the same distance to the south-east of Moulton , and likewise at the same time , three sheep which were lying together in a field were likewise killed ; the ground under them having two holes made about 2 feet deep each , one of them almost perpendicular , and the other at about a foot distance , more oblique .
About 5 or 6 paces farther from the place where the sheep were lying , towards the north-west the ground was much torn up as if ploughed , and an oblique hole made of about three feet deep .
The breadths of the different holes were from six to three inches .

