]\gt ; Messrs. H. Hartridge and A. V. dihydroxyphenols , but not mono-phenols , is more probably due to the catalysing effect of organic colloidal material than to a true enzyme as stated by Gortner .
The extreme resistance to high temperatures shown by these extracts excludes the presence of an enzyme as generally understood .
9 .
Variations in coat-colour are due probably to a quantitative rather than to a qualitative difference in the pigment present , for the pigments isolated from black , chocolate , and yellow rabbits show very little difference either in the depth of their colour or in their chemical behaviour .
10 .
Blue and the other dilute coat-colours are not caused by a lack of pigment in the medulla , but by the absence of granules in the cortex , which , being present in the intense , absorb the light which in the dilute colours is reflected from the vacuoles .
In conclusion , the writer of this paper wishes to acknowledge his indebtedness to Mr. S. W. Cole for his invaluable suggestions and help throughout the course of the experiments , and to Prof. F. G. Hopkins for kindness in revising the paper .
The nsmission of Infra-red by the of the Eye the of Energy by Crookes other Glasses .
By H. HARTRIDGE , M.A. , M.B. , B.C. , Fellow of King 's , Cambridge , and A. .
HILL , M.A. , Fellow Trinity College .
( Report of Experiments carried out for the Glassworkers ' Cataract Committee of the Royal Society .
) From the Physiological Laboratory , Cambridge .
) ( Communicated by W. B. Hardy , F.R.S. Received March 30 , 1915 .
) Our experiments were designed to obtain evidence on the following points : ( 1 ) In what amount do the infra-red radiations of different wave-length gain access to the deeper structures of the eye , the lens being particularly considered ?
( 2 ) What percentage of these radiations is absorbed in transmission through the lens ?
The apparatus is shown in fig. 1 ; it consisted of a standard constant deviation Hilger spectrometer , which was modified in the following manner .
of Infra-red Rays and of Energy .
59 The eyepiece being removed from the telescope was replaced by an adjustable vertical slit , immediately behind which was mount a delicate thermopile of 10 bismuth-silver elements .
* The terminals of the thermopile were connected directly to a Paschen galvanometer by the deflection of which the energy falling on the thermopile could be measured .
The whole telescope was insulated from radiant and convected heat by a FIG. l.\mdash ; Plan of Infra-red Spectrometer .
silvered vacuum flask , the mouth of which was closed by dry cotton wool .
The prism was of special dense flint , and the prism table was calibrated in wave-lengths throughout the visible and infra-red regions to 20,000 .
The collimator slit had specially curved jaws to compensate for the difference in refraction suffered by an oblique ray compared with one falling normally on to the surface .
The condenser system was mounted on a long arm which extended beyond and in a line with the collimator .
The source was a single vertical Nernst filament , taking 100 watts , approximately .
The positions and focal lengths of the lenses forming the condenser system were carefully studied , the principle employed in the construction being one that had been found by one of us to be very valuable when applied to the microscope .
The lens system consisted of two chief components .
first component consisted of two separate lenses which collected the rays diverging 'Trans .
Optical Soc , p. 179 .
A Broca galvanometer was used for the earlier experiments .
'Roy .
Micro .
Soc 1913 , p. 365 .
Messrs. H. Hartridge and A. V. Hill .
from the light source and forming a magnified inverted aplanatic image on the slit of the collimator .
The function of the second component was to act as field lens ; it formed a magnified inverted image of a plane situated between the two lenses of the first component on to the plane of the collimator lens .
The aperture of the condenser system was purposely made considerably greater than was actually required to fill completely the aperture of the collimator .
The object of this system may be indicated as follows .
If a piece of plane parallel glass or a thin with plane sides containing fluid be interposed between a lens and the plane at which it is forming an image , but libtle disturbance will occur .
If , however , the sides of the glass be not parallel or if there is any lens action , then considerable alteration will occur not only in the posicion of the image but also in its definition .
As will be explained in dealing with the measurements on the lens of the eye , no matter how carefully the power of the lens is neutralised , there will always be some residual refraction , particularly when waves differin from one another greatly length are to be measured .
Now one property of the condenser system employed is that it is to a considerable extent unaffected by small in focus brought about by weak positive or negative lenses placed between its components .
The of our earfier was to ascertain the best way of dealing with the different eye media .
We found that the aqueous and vitreous humour when placed in a small with parallel sides gave a clear sharp image when a distant light source was looked at through the trough .
With the lens and cornea this , of course , would not be the case .
We tried two ways of dealing with the former .
The first was to take several lenses , dry them superficially , and then squeeze them into the small trough , removing air bubbles with a small glass rod .
This method was quite unsuccessful , the difference in refractive index of the different zones of the eyes was found to give a series of confused images of a distant light source .
The second way was to immerse the uninjured lens in some fluid of suitable refractive index that would neutralise the convergence exerted by the lens on a parallel beam of light passing through it .
There are several groups of substances that could be used for this purpose ; we had , however , to select one which , besides having the refractive index , also wed no marked selective absorption in the infra-red region .
After examining a number of oils and hydrocarbons of the paraffin series we found in carbon tetrachloride the body most suitable for our purpose .
We found it to have no absorption bands over the range required , a result which confirmed data for the same substance .
Further , its refractive * Abney and Festing , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 38 , Transmission of Infra-red Rays of Energy .
61 index was nearly the same as that of the lens , the values being and respectively .
It does not precipitate the proteids of the lens and yet has marked antiseptic properties .
We found that if a cover was put over the trough containing the lens to prevent the evaporation of the carbon tetrachloride , the preparation remained clear and bright and could have been used on several successive days had this been necessary .
We used in our experiments the eyes of the ox , for their large size was a distinct advanGage for our purpose .
The lens and vitrebus were enerally removed together by making a wide lateral incision circumferential to the globe and then carefully expressing the contents .
We found this method superior to our technique , in which we removed the lenls by the ordinary operation for extraction of cataract .
The lens was then carefully separated from the vitreous and was introduced the trough by gently squeezing it between two plates of glass which were held parallel with sides of the trough .
The carbon tetrachloride was then poured in and the lens pl'evented from floating up to the surface by a small piece of thick copper wire which was bent so as to fit the upper of the lens , the ends of the wire ) eing fastened with plasticine to the top of the .
The remaining refractivity of the preparation was now neutralised by a concave lens of suitable power fixed outside the trough .
On the other side was fastened a tinfoil diaphragm , the aperture in this being freshly cut for each preparation , only so much of the lens being used as could be simultaneously neutralised ; as a rule the aperture measured between 5 and 7 mm. Table I.\mdash ; Table showing Comparative Values of Infra-red of Different LengCh transnliCted by the Lens and by an Equal Thiekness of Water .
This Table is shown plotted in fig. 2.62 Messrs. H. Hartridge and A. V. Hill .
minary observations with lens preparations made in this way showed us that the absorption bands in the infra-red corresponded very closely in position to those of water .
On closer comparison , however , we found that there was in addition in the lens preparation what appeared to be a more general absorption which gradually increased in amount as one passed toward the visible spectrum .
Fig. 2 is typical of the results we obtained with several different lens preparations .
Several explanations occurred to us to 7,500 A.u. IO,000 I2,500 FIG. 2.\mdash ; Comparison of Amount of Infra-red Energy of Different Wave-length transmitted by Lens and by an Equal Thickness of Water .
Swing of galvanometer vertical .
Wave-length horizontal .
account for these results .
We first supposed that there was some substance present in the lens with a very diffuse absorption band .
This , however , would not fit in with the fact that the absorption band , as it did to 7500 , would be seen in the visible spectrum and would therefore cause the lens to appear greenish in colour .
Our second theory was that in spite of the special condenser system , described above , we were getting the effects of the difference in dispersion between the visible and infra-red rays , so that , while the infrared rays in the case of the figures mentioned above were properly focussing on to the slit , some of the visible rays crossed too early and were lost .
This explanation too had to be abandoned for several .
In no case were we able by changing the focus to get the reverse effect , i.e. , the visible rays giving full values and corresponding to water , and the infra-red rays giving values which fell more and more away from the water curve .
A considerable change Transmission ofJnfra-red of Radiant Energy .
63 in of the condenser did not alter the values at any one point .
The values we obtained at different times with different lens preparations agreed with one another .
At ] the true cause occurred to us , namely , that the lens only contains perhaps 90 per cent. water and we were therefore two unequal thicknesses of water .
In makiney further series we therefore reduced the thickness of water from mm. to mm. by a thin glass plate , the same being done in examimng the vitreous and aqueous humours .
Table \mdash ; Comparative Values of Amount of Infra-red of Different Wave-length transmitted by the Lens and Aqueous and Vitreous Humours and by an Equivalent Thickness of Water .
This Table is shown plotted in figs. 3 , 4 and 5 .
The correspondence between the absorption curves obtained the different eye media and for water was now nearly complete , the values criven in Table II and shown plotted in figs. 3 , 4 and 5 may be given as examples .
It seems clear therefore that no considerable difference exists between the absorption bands of the eye media and those of water .
This conclusion which we had already reached has been confirmed by finding a paper by Aschkinass , investigated the permeability of the eye media to red and infra-red rays .
Aschkinass first made a careful investigation of the absorption bands of water , in thicknesses from 10 up to 1 metre ; he found bands at , and .
The method used was that of the bolometer , in which one scale-division on the galvanometer represented oC .
Our method must be some six or seven times as sensitive as this , and the 'Wied .
Ann vol. 55 , p. 401 ( 1895 ) .
Messrs. H. Hartridge and A. V. Transmission of Infra-red Rays and of Energy .
65 dispersion and " " over-lap\ldquo ; are probably better .
He then investigated in order the absorption by the cornea , the aqueous , the lens , and the vitreous of the bullock 's eye .
In the cornea , when pressed flat , there is almost invariably some degree of cloudiness : this we also have observed , and the cloudiness probably leads to some general absorption throughout the whole range of wave-lengths .
Aschkinass found that the general absorption produced by this cloudiness is greater the shorter the wave-length , and diminishes ( one might expect ) considerably for the longer waves .
There is no reason to suppose that in the normal eye this phenomenon causes any absorption at all ( in the condition of glaucoma , however , it probably does ) : and Aschkinass , finding absorption bands at , comes to the conclusion that " " the absorption follows the same course as for water The same result he found , quite definitely and clearly , for the aqueous and the vitreous .
With regard to the lens , the proof of the quantitative equality of the absorption to that of water was more diHicult , as we have pointed out above .
Aschkinass did not , as we have done , immerse the lens in some non-absorbing fluid of approximately the same refractive index : he trusted simply to it between two glass plates .
He still found , however , that by virtue of its eneity it continued to act as a lens , and in order to deal with the absolute value of the absorption he had to apply a correction .
Qualitatively , identically the same bands were seen as in the case of water , and qualltitatively he came to the same conclusion as ourselves , viz. , that the ab sorption of the lens is in no considerable different from that of water .
The absorption of radiant heat by water has been known for some time .
Julius investigated the absorption of both water and solution in small thicknesses .
Abney , , bobh photometric and therntometric methods , investigated very completely the absorption of water up to layers 2 feet thick .
He that water between the sodium lines and had absorption bands with the following maxima 120 , 145 , , and approximately , the first four bands being shallow except for thick layers ; the last five bands being of increasing depth .
carried out a more complete of the far '-red absorption up to 10 ; he found that thin layers of water even take up a considerable portion of the incident radiation of greater than .
Thus a layer mm. thick transmitted at no wave-length more than 30 per cent. of the incident energy .
A layer 2 mm. thick would , therefore , be totally opaque for wave-lengths greater than .
This is an ' Boy .
Soc. Proc vol. 35 , p. 328 .
' Wied .
Ann vol. 52 , p. 216 ( 1894 ) .
66 Messrs. H. Hartridge and A. V. Hill .
essential fact from our point.of view , for it means that the radiation reaching the lens must be of shorter wave-length than , and is therefore able to pass readily through ordinary glass .
We next turned our attention to the second part of our enquiry , namely , to what extent do the various structures of the eye receive and absorb the infra-red radiationls .
We attacked the question in two ways , paltly by direct experiment , and partly by calculation from the measured absorption of a standard thickness of water .
The results obtained by the two methods agreed with one another .
Percentage of Incident Heat Energy .
86 .
87.1 90.3 85 .
30.4 26 .
26.8 The absorption by water at different wave-lengths is given in Table III .
The values were obtained by first measuring the deflection of the galvanometer nsmission of Infra-red Rays and of Energy .
67 Table \mdash ; Calculated Values of Heat Radiation Penetrating the Eye in the Human Subject .
This Table is shown plotted in fig. 6 .
with the trough filled with water , and then at the same wavelength the deflection without the water .
The absorption of the water only was then obtained by stating the first measurement in percentage of the second .
In measuring the deflection without the water the empty trough was not used , as it would introduce an extra pair of -air surfaces instead of two glass-water ones .
We used instead two glass plates of the ..same thickness as the sides of the trough clamped together with a thin film Messrs. H. Hartridge and A. V. Hill .
FIG. 6 .
of water between .
In this way the loss of at the surfaces of the trough was allowed for .
Water of several thicknesses was measured in order to give suitable values from which to calculate the absorption by thin or thick layers of eye media .
From these measurements we then calculated the absorption by the different structures of the eye , using the values given in Table for heir thickness and the percentage of water contained in them .
Table ( The values in the last column were calculated by multiplying the thickness of the structure by the percentage of water contained by it .
) Transmission of Infra-red Rays of Energy .
69 Table \mdash ; Calcula Messrs. H. Hartridge and A. V. Now besides absorption by the eye structures a certain small amount is lost by reflection at the different surfaces and by scattering , since the eye media are not entirely homogeneous .
Heat lost by reflection is greatest at the anterior colneal surface , being about per cent. At the other surfaces about per cent. is lost .
The probable total loss by reflection and scattering we have assumed to be 5 per cent. The values in the above Tables are shown plotted in figs. 6 and 7 .
Examination of these Tables shows that the heat radiation from 11,000 to 7000 passes into the eye almost unchecked and a great deal of it reaches the retina .
This entirely confirms the results obtained by mentioned above .
Now , we found the iris of the ox totally obstructed heat radiation of every wave-length which fell upon it .
It therefore absorbs the same percentage radiation as that which reaches the anterior surface of the lens ; that is per cent. of the heat radiation between 13,000 and the visible spectrum .
The lens , on the other hand , absorbs of the radiation allowed to reach it through the aperture in the iris only a very small percentage of the incident light energy , approximately 12 per cent. Thus , in the case of the ox and the radiation from a naked Nernst filament , four times the amount of energy is absorbed per unit area by the iris as is absorbed by the lens .
The difference is , of course , still greater when unit volume is considered .
Now , although an actual coagulation of the lens proteins brought about in the course of time by this small amount of heab radiation is not impossible , when the conclusions of Chick and Martin*with regard to the physical chemistry of coagulation are considered , yet we think it more likely that the change is due to some interference with the nutrition of the lens caused in some way by the enormous heat-absorbing power of the iris affecting the secretion of the aqueous humour by the ciliary body , as Parsons suggests .
It would be premature to speculate what the connection between the heat stimulus on the iris and the secretion of aqueous may be , but several interesting points may , perhaps , be briefly mentioned .
irstly , the heat radiation is probably absorbed but slightly by the meant in the substance of the iris , by far the greater amount of energy passing through and being finally absorbed by the pigment on its posterior surface .
In the case of blue-eyed individuals the pigment in the stroma of the iris is absent and the posterior pigmentary layer is alone effective in absorbing radiant energy .
This means that not only does the absorbent layer come in intimate contact with the posterior chamber of the eye , but also with the 'Journ .
Physiol vol. 40 , p. 404 ( 1910 ) .
'Affections of the Eye produced by Undue Exposure to Light , ' Report to Section of Ophthalmology , British Medical Congress .
nission of -red Rays and of Energy .
71 processes of the ciliary body themselves .
A rise of temperature of the pig- meant layer due to the absorption of heat must necessarily cause at the same time a rise of temperature by conduction to surrounding structures , in this the glandular elements of the ciliary body take part .
Secondly , the ve.ry intimate relationship that exists between the arterial supplies of the iris and ciliary processes may be mentioned , both ming off as branches from the circulus arteriosus major .
It is possible that the .
lymphatic is no less intimate , it is also conceivable that the vasomotor nerves to these arteries also send glandulo-motor nerves to the ciliary processes ; on these points , however , we have only the evidence of with other secretory organs .
There are several remarkable features in the occurrence of glassmakers ' cataract ; the very long period taken for the condition to develop does not all suggest any pathological of an inflammatory nature , neither has any obvious change in any other structure of the eye apart from the lens been described .
Thus the pupil is normal in size and reaction to light , which would not be the case if it had been the seat of any chronic inflammatory change .
It would seem to us more likely therefore that the change in nutrition of the lens is one by some physiological alteration in the secretory mechanism of the aqueous rather than to a pathological change .
We have only to postulate a secretion of aqueous when heat falls on the iris to obtain what appears to be a plausible hypothesis of the formation of the cataract .
Normally aqueous is secreted in small amounts all the time ; when heat falls on the.iris a larger secretion occurs , which is followed when the stimulus stops by a period of rest .
This stimulus , falling regularly for periods , in time causes the secretory mechanism to be more and more dependent on the external stimulus .
The secretion becomes periodic in character and , instead of the lens noLlrisflment all the time , it only receives it at intervals , with the result that the least well nourished part of the eye suffers and ract develops .
Whether or not the heat absorbed by the iris stimulates the secretion of aqueous humour , and how it stimulates it , whether by rise of temperature , vaso-dilatation or actual reflex stimulation , experiment alone can show .
Our object in mentioning the matter here is that it seems to us to a feasible line of attack for future investigation .
Protectxon of the Eye Harmfnl Radiation by Crookes Glasses .
In order to protect the eye from damage by the radiation from minous bodies , it is necessary to remove as completely as possible the ultra-violet and infra-red rays , for these , while taking no part in the vision of external objects , 72 Messrs. H. Hartridge and A. V. Hill .
Thevisualrayswhenpresentinexcessiveamountorwhencomingfromadoatthesametimecauseinjurytotheeyestructuresthatabsorbthem .
source in a position to form sharply focussed images of filaments , etc. , on the retina ( eclipse blindness ) also do harm , and should therefore be reduced in intensity by suitable neutral grey glasses .
In the case of daylight the modifying glasses should be worn as spectacles , .in the case of artificial illuminants on the other hand they should form globes , so as to limit the rays emitted to those useful for vision .
For both purposes the glasses recently perfected by Sir William Crookes are ideal .
Of the many different glasses prepared by Sir William Crookes , those containing iron in the ferrous state stand prominent for their power of absorbing the infra-red rays .
Three glasses of different formulae were sent to us to be tested , and in the case of two of them we were able to contrast the specimen made by Sir William himself on a small scale with samples of a large melt by Messrs. Chance Bros. \amp ; Co. , Ltd. We also obtained specimens of certain other glasses specially made for spectacles , as we a comparison of the properties of these with the Crookes glasses might be interesting .
The glasses were examined in the following ways .
The infra-red radiation was estimated by a simple arrangement of filament , condenser , and thermopile , the latter being enclosed in a box and carefully insulated with wool from radiation from surrounding objects .
A comparison of the defiection of the galvanometer with and without the glass gave the summation of the effects of all the radiation emitted by the Nernst lamp .
We then limited the radiation to the infra-red by a gelatine absorption filter which absorbed everything shorter than 6700 .
( The construction and properties of this filter will be described later .
) Finally we added a trough which contained mm. thicknesses of water .
The trcmsparency to visual was measured in a simple comparison photometer , the white equivalent being obtained by comparing the absorption of the glass with that of a standardised graduated neutral gelatin wedge .
Colour filters were then placed over the eyepiece which limited the spectrum to the red , green or blue as required .
Th ultra-violet transmitted by the glasses was estimated by a photographic method .
In front of a fast non-colour-seusitive photographic plate was placed a gelatin filter which removed the visual radiation likely to affect the plate , while it allowed the ultra-violet to pass , the dyes used in preparing the filter being methyl violet and paranitrosodimethyl aniline .
Over this were placed the specimens of be tested , and the edge of the plate was placed a graduated step-wedge .
Light was then allowed to fall perpendicularly on the plate holder and after exposure the plate was developed in the usual Transmission of Infra-red Rays and of Energy .
73 Messrs. H. Hartridge and A. V. Hill .
Transmission of Infra-red Rays of Energy .
75 way .
The depth of the silver deposit was then measured in the areas corresponding to the glasses .
The densities corresponding to the step-wedge were measured in a similar manner , and the results plotted against the known values of the wedge absorption .
densities in the areas corresponding to the glasses were then refe1red to this curve , and the absorption stated in percentage of the incident radiation .
The infra-red radiation at different wave-lengths was obtained by the infrared spectrophotometer used in testing the absorptions of the eye .
The results obtained by us are given in Tables and VIII , pp. 73-74 .
Comparison of the values for the different glasses shows the great infra-red absorbiug powel of the Crookes rlasses compared with the other glasses tested .
The transparency of these glasses is very considerable , while their ultra-violet absorbing power is not so great as some of the more heavily coloured orange and green glasses previously'manufactured .
The formulae of the Crookes glasses were approximately as follows:\mdash ; No. 256.* Per cent. Soda flux 81 Cerium nitrate 11 Ferrous oxalate Tartar 2 Charcoal No. 246 .
Soda flux 90 Ferrous oxalate 10 Tartar Charcoal No. Soda flux Ferrosoferric oxide Carbon To facilitate comparison between the optical properties of glasses made to the above formulae we have calculated from the values in Table the thickness of plate required to reduce the visual rays by 50 per cent. From * Sir W. Crookes kindly sent us the formula of this glass for publication .
' Phil. Trans , vol. 214 , p. 20 ( 1914 ) .
rays by such a platee the usselle a of infra-red and ultra-violet this we then estimated the percentage absorption of infra-red and ultra-violet Glass 217 would , therefore , appear to be the most efficient in removing rays likely to injure the eye .
Its colour is a pale Teen , very pleasant to use , and the eye quickly becomes accustomed to the slight coloration .
Colour matches appear to be but little affected by it .
Soil Protozoa and Soil Bacteria .
By EDwAItD JOHN ( Rothamsted Experimental Station ) .
( Communicated by Dr. Horace T. Brown , F.R.S. Received May 3 , 1915 .
) In a paper recently published by Mr. Goodey*it is definitely asserted that ciliates , amoebae and ellates cannot function as a factor limiting the numbers of bacteria in soils .
It does not appear to me that this conclusion is justified by the experimental data given in this paper , and in view of the importance of the sub ect it seems desirable to bring together the main facts so far asoertained and to summarise the present position of the problem .
Soil consists of irregular mineral particles of sizes varying from about 1 mm. diameter downwards , together with a smaller proportion of organic substances of varymg degrees of complexity , nutrient and other salts , and the oxides of iron , aluminium , and silicon in a form easily soluble in acids or alkalis .
The action of the natural processes tends on the whole to effect intermingling of these constituents , at any rate hout the top 6 inches .
In its physical properties soil behaves like a colloid ; it possesses strong powers of absorption , and the phenomena are exactly parallel with those shown by other colloids ; it influences the evaporation of water so that the curves become wholly different from those obtained from a water surface or from sand .
The evidence all shows that the colloidal constituents are not segregated but are distributed over the surface of the mineral particles .
Thus the soil may be looked upon as a mineral framework coated with a 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 88 , pp. 437-456 .

