]\gt ; I New Spring for Electric and other Instruments . .
A New Form of Spring for Electric and other Measuring Instruments By Professors W. E. AYRTON , F.R.S. , and JOHN PEBRy , .
Received February 6 , 1884 .
In steam and gas engine indicators , the pressure of the fluid on a iston prodnces a slight shortening of a spiral spring which is mags1ified by a lever , and so the pressure of the steam or gas is recorded .
what are usually known as spring balamces there is also caslona magnification of the elongation of a spiral spring effected by the :se of a rack and pinion .
Such magnifying arrangements , however , not only introduce inaccuracy by the bad fitting of hinges or of teeth , un inaccuracy which is aggravated by wear , but they crease the cost measuring instruments and their liability to get out of order .
And , as an example of the difficulty of using a wheel and pinion for the magnification of an angular motion produced by a small force , we may mention that although we used this plan for a year or more { in our electric measuring instruments , and although the wheels and pinions were made by a good watchmaker , still the friction involved in such a plan has induced us to abandon it in favour of the new arrangement which is the subject of thitt communication .
The telescopic method employed by Weber , and the spot of light method due to Sir W. Thomson for magnifying the effect of an angular motion are , of course , unequalled for stationary measuring instruments , but for instruments which must be carried about and used quickly without the necessity of adjustment , these most ingenious reflecting methods are quite unstlitable .
With an ordinary cylindric spring , having a small angle between the osculating plane amd a plane perpendicular to the axis , as is the case with all spiral springs such as are in practical use , and of which flg .
1 is an example , it is well known that but very little rotation is produced between its ends by the application of an axial force .
Consequently with such springs , it is only possible to obtain magnification by the employment of a system of levers , or of a rack and pinion .
It occurred to us , therefore , to consider whether it would not be possible to make a spiral spring of such a nature that for a comparatively small axial motion of its ends there should be considerable rotation of one end relatively to the other , and by the employment of which all levers , racks , and pinions could be dispensed with , so that no error could be introduced by wear and tear , or by want of fitting of ioints , and further so that the temperature correction should be merely one aflecting the rigidity of the material used as a spring , and not a correction such as has to be applied in consequence of the contractions and expansions of .
the various parts of an ordinary magnifying apparatus .
Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and J. Perry .
In order to ascertain this fact , it is necessary to consider what the general laws governing the behaviour of spiral springs .
Let the centres of all cross sections of the wire , or strip , formin the spring lie on a right circular cylinder of radius , let the spiral have every where an inclination to the plane perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder , and let a force act at one end of the spring along the axis , the other end of the spring being fixed .
In the cross section of the wire at any point ( fig. 2 ) , we have , due to the axial force , tensile stress whose effect in deforming the spring may be neglected in comparison with the other effects to be described , and we have the stresses produced by a couple Fr acting about the axis .
PS , , and PU are all in a plane tangential to the cylinder at the point , PM being drawn in this plane perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder , PU tangential to the spiral line , and PS perpendicular to PU .
This couple is equivalent to the couple , which is a twisting couple about the axis PU , and to , a bending couple about the axis PS .
If now is the flexural rigidity of the wire in the oscu lating plane , and if A is the torsional rigidity about the spiral line we have\mdash ; $i 14 .
] New Spring for Electric and other Instruments .
as the angular twisb per unit of length about the axis PU , and !
as the angular bending per unit of length about the axis PS .
Resolving both of these horizontally and vertically , we have for the total angular motion in a vertical plane , that is , about the axis PM\mdash ; , and for the angular motion in a horizontal plane\mdash ; If the angular motion , in a horizontal plane , of the free end of the spring relatively to the fixed end be called , and if the axial increase of length be called , and the whole length of the spring along the spiral , then\mdash ; \mdash ; . . .
( 1 ) , and ( 2 ) .
The theory of the strength and stiffness of the ordinary cylindric piral spring for small angles was given , we believe for the first time , by Professor James Thomson , in the ' Cambridge and Dublin Math. for 1848 , and in " " Thomson and Tait 's Natnral Philosophy Article 607 , but we have preferred to deduce these two equations from first principles .
The general expression worked out by M. de St. Venant for 1 for a prism of rectangular section involves an infinite series , its use would give rise to mathematical expressions of an character in an investigation like the prese. .
We have , fore , decided to cons our strip of which the new spring is be made as having an elliptic section .
We may mention , : { ever , for the benefit of students , that an examination of the sion given by Thomson and Tait , " " Not .
Phil vol. , for the tori rigidity oprism oction h A friend of ours who has been kind enough , our request , to cheok the investigation agrees with us in thinking that there are two : but considers that the second is not in the coefficient but in the fao } that has been used in the formula in place of .
We still are oi opinion , however , that the error is in the coefficient , because when we employ our two corrections , we obtain\mdash ; where and are the length and breadth of the strip , and this formula we find agrees with the experimental results of M. de St. Venant , and also with the calculated numbers given in Thomson and T. ' ' Natural Philosophy S 709 , for the torsional rigidity of a squaro .
shaft ; whereas neither the formula for A given in Thomson and Tait 's book , nor the formula as corrected by our friend , will do this .
* Reverting to the elliptic section , if the principal semi-diamete1u of this ellipse are , measured in the osculating plane of the spiral , and measur perpendicular to this plane , the values of the two rigidities are\mdash ; , and where is the modulus of rigidity of the material , and is modulus .
Hence substituting , equation ( 1 ) becomes\mdash ; * Since this paper was presented Mr. .
T. Glazebrook has been kind enough to go through the investigation , and he confirms our correction of the formula given in Thomson and Tait 's " " Natural Philosophy New for Electric and other Instrnments . . . . . .
( 4 ) .
, Positive and Negative \mdash ; If we merely equire that shall be a maximum for a given axial force , indenendently of the sbresses produced in the material , and independently the axial elongation , then it is evident that ought to be equal to , and and as great as possible .
If onr other condition is that he area of cross section of the strip is to be a constant\mdash ; Let nd that iThsn , , or since is equal usually to about two-fiftbs , we find that Now when is very small this is very great .
On the other hand , when is very great this is also very great , but of the opposite si As increases from the expression to which , or the amount of turning , is proportional diminishes until when reaches a vaIue nearly becomes , or there is no rotation of the spring produced by an axial force .
In fact , for small values of there is a rotation of the spring in the direction of the coiling , and the amount of rotation becomes the greater the smaller is , while for values of greater than there is a rotation of the spring opposite to the of the coiling , the rotation becoming .
greater the larger is .
Fig. 3 shows a spring in which is greater than , and it is found that there is an uncoiling on the application of an axial force .
Fig. 4 shows a spring made of the same material , but the wire has been passed through rolls so as to flatten it in the opposite way , and a rotation tending to coil it up is found to be produced by the application of an force .
302 Profs .
W. E. Ayrtt The twisting torque to which the spring is subjected is and the bending torque to .
But the twist must be multi plied by , and the bend by when we project these motions on a horizontal plane .
So far then as the total rotation in a horizontal plane of the free end of the spring relatively to the fixed end is concerned , it 1nay be regarded as being produced by equal twisting and bending torques , each of them equal to ; and the rotation of the free end of the spring relatively to the fixed end , which is the special feature of the springs we are considering , is proportional to the difference between the two angular rotations produced in the wire by these equal bending and twisting torques .
The twist alone would cause an increase in the number of coils , that is , a rotation in the direction of coiling which is what we call positive , while the bending , or rather the unbending , alone would cause a rotation , or one tending to uncoil the spring .
When both occur together in the actual spiral spring subjected to an axial force the total rotation is positive or negative , according as the angular twist or the angular bend is the greater .
Hence the flexural and torsional rigidities of the wire alone determine whether the rotation is positive or It is well known , for example , that when a wire of circular section is subjected to equal twisting and bending torques the twist is reater than the bending for almost all substances , that is , substances in which the ratio of the modulns of rigidity to Young 's modulus iS New Spring for Electric and other Instruments .
30$ , between one-third and one-half .
Hence we may expect that in a ipring made of round wire , and with the spires making an angle of with a plane perpendicular to the axis , the total rotation will positive for an axial force applied so as to lengthem the spring .
experiment shows that this is the case .
' If the wire be flattemed and bent so that the flat side of the strip : the cylinder on which the wire is coiled , as shown in then the arrangement is such thab the is greater than the ovisb .
Hence an axial force applied so as to lengthen this spring auses a negative rotation , whereas if the strip be coiled as in fig. 4 , 50 that the edge of the strip lies against the cylinder on which it is oiled , an axial force similarly applied will now cause a positive rotation .
It is almost certain that for any strip of material the positive #but the difficulty of manufacturing the second form of spring , where has a very small value , has compelled us to confine our attention to former type .
Permanent Set.\mdash ; Having constructed some very springs of this kind , one of the first difficulties which we met with arose from their liability to acquire a permanent set , so that it has been necessary determine the dimensions of the spring which will give the amount of rotation with the minimum amount of stress in the material .
The shear stress at any point in an elliptic section if the prism has received a twist per unit length , is\mdash ; in the of and in the direction of where where and are the principal semi-diameters of the ellipse , the axis of being parallel to the semi-diameter Consequently these shear stresses equal\mdash ; and - respectively ; and the total shear stress is equal to VOL. XXXVI .
If is the twisting couple we know that\mdash ; , or Applying ( 5 ) to our case where the twisting couple is the bending couple , and recollecting that the direction we have chosen for on the section is perpendicular to the axis of tht spiral , we see that at a point on the section bent about the of , that is , is perpendicular to the plane in which bending occurs the shear stress equals\mdash ; ( 6 ) , and the tensile or compressivs stress at the point due to bending equals ( 7 ) .
And the resultant tensile , or compressive , stress at the point is Therefore since is the equation of the ellipse , the stress at the boundaly , ( 8 ) .
34 .
] New Spring for and other Instruments .
greatest stress will in each case be at B. If , however , be very large compared with , which is the case in the section 5 , fig. 5 , then will not have its greatest value at B. We find also that when has its greatest value when ( 9 ) .
Now this value of is greater than so long as ; and when these are equal we have where the positive sign is evidently inadmissible , since onr condition ' bove is less than Hence from equal through equal to equal , the greatest stress occurs at the extremity of the axis .
After that , the point of greatest stress is nearer to , but still on the circumference of the ellipse .
Now if is very great compared with , then we have as limit , to , the greatest stress in an elliptic section occurs at th end of the semi-diameter , which is paralleI to the axis of , and ffl is the case we will first confine ourselves to .
Maximum Rotation in Relation to Permanent Set.\mdash ; If , now , is greatest stress at any point of the section , . . . . .
iven xial forceThe conditions timum preaWare those which amount of turning of the end with the least amount of stress the materi1d , and therefore with the least chance of permanent And as regards the value of a , it is clear that or will give greatest value .
Maximum npared with Axial Motion.\mdash ; From equations : ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) we have . . . .
( 11 ) , .
and the conditions that make this a maximum are those which for a given axial force applied to the spring give the greatest amount of .
turning of the free end of it with the least amount of axial lengthening .
As regards the value of , it can easily be shown that ] be a maximum when If is small in compal.ison with , which is a condition , as explained , we are led by facility of construction to adopt , then As a rough approximation , taking the modulns of rigidity at two New Spring for Electric and other Instruments .
of Young 's modulus , the ratio given by M. St. Venant , this value of becomes equal to , or akes a maximum .
I We have already seen , from ( 3 ) , that to merely make a maximum :for a given axial force , ought to be , and and as great as possible .
set in the material ; That treat wthout producing permanentWe aherefore 1hree cThat aforce sproduce aimum rative rotation ; make tabout 4 tion of the spring ; Further , to produce the first bwo of these conditions , it will be 'observed that the length of the wire forming the spring ought to be , while the third condition is independent of the length .
Next , with regard to the proper radius !
to give to the coils of the ring .
increases with is independent of , and varies inversely as .
Hence , as the first and third conditions are antagonistic one to the other , the value of must be chosen to suii the conditions of the instrument in which the spl.ing is to be used ; that is , we must consider in any special case whether the possibility of permanent set or a large axial motion is more to be avoided in the particular instrument in question .
Let us now consider how depend .
Referring to equation ( 3 ) , if is not greater than , it is clear that the smaller is the larger will be .
Next putting equal to , an approximation sufficiently accurate for the substances likely tc be employed , we see from equation ( 10 ) that depends on and as in this first case we are limited to values of between and a value not far from that which we have already determined to be the best , then it is obvious that the smaller is the will be Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and J. Perry .
From equation 11 ) we see that -depends on ; or , putting equaI to , this becomes Hence , remembering as before that has only values between and , we see that the last fraction varies between and Hence , taking small , which gives the greatest values for and , gives a value for not less than half as great as if we had taken the largest possible value of , therefore , if varies from to , the best practical value of is an extremely small one , or the strip should b.e wound as in figure 3 .
If is greater than , conditions other than those given above may make , and have their maximum values ; but , the difficulty of manufacturing metal springs of the form shown in fig. 4 must necessarily render their employment but very limited , mathematical examination of this problem has not much value .
We therefore merely mention that in this case calculation showH that ( 12 ) , where is the maximum stress anywhere in the section , the maximum stress in this case not occurring at the extremity of the diameter .
The general conclusions therefore arrived at are , that in order , with a given axial force to obtain a large amount of turning of the free end of the spring , combined with small aximnm total stress in the material , and not too much axial motion of the free end of the spring , the strip of elliptic section should be as long and as thin as possible , should be wound in a spiral such that the osculating plane makes an angle of to with a plane perpendicular to the axis of the and so that the smaller diameter of the elliptic section is at right angles to the axis of the spiral .
New Spring for Electric and other Under these circumstances , being the major diameter and the inor diameter of the ellipse , .
the maximum stress at a section , and ( 15 ) .
onvenient tonstruction oprings .
We have , therefore , now to consider how equations , 14 , and 15 will be modified if our strip has a rectangular section , the longer side of the section being and the shorter side .
In this case and since , as was discovered by M. Cauchy in 1829 , the torsion rigidity of a rectangle bears to the torsional rigidity of an inscribed ellipse the proportion of their moments of inertia about a line drawn through the common centre perpendicular to their plane , in the case when one principal dimension is several times the other , it follows that or Hence , ; or , as is insignificant in comparison with ( 16 ) , .
Profs .
W. E. Ayrtom and J. Perry .
will now calculate the value of , the maximum stress at point in the rectangular section .
The shear stress at any point , , in such a section of the which has received , twist , , per unit of length is , where the axes and are parallel to the edges of the section , and the origin tho centre of the section , being at right angles to the section , in the directions of and and in the directions of and where V equals - expression which vanishes thickness of strip is very small .
Hence since and it follows that the shear stress at a point is in the direction of and in the direction of so that the whole shear stress at a point is , and the shear stress , , at the middle of the longer edge of the rectangular section , where we may suppose the shear stress is the greatest , is Now if is the twisting couple , we know that hence , and .
Also , since is the bending coupIe , the greatest str .
ss due to bending , Hence if is the greatest total stress anywhere in a section , it may be shown that .1 B84 .
] New Spring for and otfier Instruments .
Or , as is very large in comparison with . . . . .
( 18 ) .
If , as is usual in the case of the springs we employ , the edges of strip nearly touch one another in two consecutive coils , and the gle of the spiral is , we have the area of the cylinder which the etal strip approximately covers , or , equal to the area of the trip , or , so that nd equations ( 16 ) , ( 17 ) , and ( 18 ) may be simplified thus\mdash ; ( 19 ) .
( 21 ) .
We have preferred to say that , and are respectively proporional rather than equal to the expressions on the right hand side , ncause when the strip is wide in comparison with the radius of the uylinder about which it is bent , the strip receives in addition to the oending and shear strains which we have considered , alateral bending , and the exact effect of this we have not yet fully investigated .
Use of Spring to determine \mdash ; Before proceeding to a description of the various measuring instruments in which we have applied this tlew form of spring , we may mention one interesting application of it enable us to determine readily the ratio of the modulus of rigidity , , to Young 's modulus of , for any material .
It is well known that the celebrated conclusion of .
MM .
Navier and Poisson Boscovich 's molecular theory requires that the ratio of Fi to rhould be for all solids .
Professor Stokes showed that this conrlusion was impossible if its anthors supposed it to apply to jellies und to india-rubber , and that it was probably in the case of metals ; and Wertheim , Kirchhoff , Thomson , Hiverett , and others have xperimentally shown its untruth in the case of brass , iron , copper , and glass .
In pursuance of the present investigation it has struck us that this ratio be most conveniently determined by the use of our springs from one experiment .
Profs .
W. E. Ayrton and J. Perry .
When the spring is made of round wire , so that and are equr to one another , we have from equation ( 11 ) ; let be called , then it can be shown that , close to the wire of the spring , is inches .
A point , , on the wire is observed in its position in the upper scale , the reading being Now the spring is elongated by an axial force until the point , comes opposite a point on the lower scale , and the reading is now As the two scales are similar and parallel to one another , and as a spirit-level has been employed to make the scales horizontal , it is obvious that as the axis is vertical New for Etectric and other Instruments .
So that We have used three springs made from round wire respectively of that the excess of over 2 is , that is , is proportional to .
The cylindric scale has only been introduced for the sake of ustration .
For an accurate determination of ' a telescope would employed having a motion about the axis of the spring , and also a A motion parallel to the axis , and by means of which the motion of a point on centre line of the wire when an axial force is employed , Vould be accurately observed .
It is sufficient to say that the brass 1 ring of round wire exhibited to the Society gives a value of which : per cent. less than the value given by the similar spring of round #on wire exhibited .
Instead of using a round wire , we may use for the experimental of a strip of rectangular section , whose breadth is Very great in comparison with its thickness .
If the angle of the iral is , then from equations ( 16 ) and ( 17 ) it follows that ; therefore measuring as , and as , by the method just qescribed , we have Some Practical Uses of the Springs.\mdash ; By the employment of springs such as we have described , we have succeeded in making ammeters and neters , or instruments for measuring respectively electric currents diflerences of potential , in which the pointer moves over in some cases as much as 27 of the scale instead of only , which is all that can be obtained with ordinary galvanometers .
One form of the instrument is shown in fig. 7 , where AA is a thin hollow tube to the framework of the instrument .
rod attached to the glass , and to which the upper end of the spring is attached , also serves as guide to the top of the iron tube .
In the space FF a solenoid wire or strip is wound , its ends being attached to the terminals shown .
Henco when a current is passed through the wire , the iron tube is cked into the solenoid , and its lower end , to which the spring is tached , receives a large rotatory motion , which is communicated directly to the pointer attached to the top of the iron tube .
Parallax in takin . .
Theory of the Solenoid Spring Ammeter or Voltmeter.\mdash ; If is the 011rrent in amperes flowing through the coil , the attractiye force on ) the iron core is where is a constant , which is the greater as the current is smaller for which the iron tube , fig. 7 , becomes saturated with magnetism .
The of this iron core in the solenoid is so selected that remains practically constant throughout the small range of downward motion of the core .
Since rotation has been produced by an axial force , we know from the theory of the spring already given , that this axial force ia , where is some constant .
Hence 316 Profs .
W. E. rton and J. Perry .
and since SC is great in comparison with unity for such we wish to measure , we have or suc or that is , equal divisions of the scale correspond with equal additions to the strength of the current except close to the zero , and we usually do !
not graduate these instruments within of the zero .
Shielded Measuring Instruments.\mdash ; When it is desired to use the instrn meant close to a dynamo machine or electromotor in action , we have adopted a different and somewhat special form of construction , which is shown in fig. 8 , by means of which the instrument is to a great extent shielded from even powerful external magnetic fields .
In instrument the electromagnet consists of a core , part of which , , is of charcoal iron , and part , DE , of brass or other nonmagnetic metal .
The outside tube , CC , and the plates , , top and bottom , are also of charcoal iron .
The space FF is filled with insnlated wire in electrical connexion with the terminal , so that when a current is sent through the instrument an intense magnetic field il New for Electric and other Instruments .
fiormed between and , which are the poles of the electromagnet .
the iron tube AA , also made of charcoal iron , the spiral spring , il this case made of extremely thin hard steel , is attached , the other end ffiely in bearings , so that the only movements of which A is apable are one of rotation and one parallel to the axis of the bobbin .
one he using .
The steel strip used in the construction of the spring for these shielded instruments is inch thick , and in a book just pnbished on " " Steel and Iron by Mr. Greenwood , he mentions that some specimens of remarkably thin steel , of an inch , were shown in the Paris Exhibition , so that steel we are using is nearly as thin as that referred to by Mr. Greenwood .
But within the last few days we I have received from Mr. Charles Jowitt , of Sheffield , a specimen of steel rolled for us only just over inch in thickness , which is perhaps the thinnest steel yet made .
We have to thank one of our assistants , Mr. Bower , for so earnestly carrying out a long series of experiments on these very delicate springs .
Weighing Machines.\mdash ; Another class of instruments in which we have practically employed this spring are lveighing machines , and fig. 9 shows one of the arrangements we adopt .
The scale-pan is prevented from turning by the part AB being square fitting very loosely a square hole in C. This arrangement introduces practically VOL. XXXVI .
* ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 36 , p. 167 .

