272 Prof. W. M. Thornton .
( 3 ) The sign of the charge remaining in the air depends upon the nature of the material used .
" Acidic " bodies , such as finely divided silica or molybdic acid , give to the air a negative charge , whilst " basic " bodies , such as lead oxide , or organic dusts , such as flour or coal , give a positive charge .
( 4 ) The total electrification of dust and air is zero .
( 5 ) The friction between particles of similar material apparently produces sufficient electrification to account for the charges observed .
( 6 ) An unweighable amount of dust can produce an easily measurable charge .
My thanks are due to Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for the kindly interest he has taken in this work , and also for his valuable criticism during its progress .
The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
By Prof. W. M. Thornton , D.Sc .
, D. Eng. , Armstrong College , Newcastleupon-Tyne .
( Communicated by Sir Charles Parsons , F.R.S. Received January 20 , \#151 ; Read February 26 , 1914 .
) CONTENTS .
page .
1 .
Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
272 2 .
Experimental Details ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 274 3 .
Relation of Least Continuous Igniting Current to Circuit Voltage ... 275 4 .
Relation of Current to Percentage of Combustible Gas , Paraffins .
275 5 .
Influence of Number of Atoms in Molecule upon Igniting Current ... 278 6 .
7 , 8 , 9 .
Experimental Results for Alcohol , Benzene , Hydrogen , etc ... .
280 10 .
Influence of Circuit Voltage on Form of Curves ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
284 11 .
Cause of Change of " Time of Explosion " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 286 12 .
Ignition by Alternating Currents , Influence of Change of Frequency , tand Voltage ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 286 13 .
Experimental Results for Paraffins ; Voltage constant , Percentage varied ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
290 14 .
Atomic Nature of Break-spark Ignition ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 291 15 .
Cause of Differences between Continuous and Alternating Current Results ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
293 16 .
17 , 18 , 19 .
Results for Alternating Current Ignition of other Gases ... 294 20 .
Absence of Influence of External Ionisation ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 296 21 , 22 .
Summary of Alternating Current Results and Conclusion ... ... . .
296 1 .
Introduction .
The ignition of explosive gaseous mixtures for experimental purposes is generally made by an electric spark or train of sparks between fixed The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
27 3 terminals .
The temperature of inflammation cannot in this case be measured , and it is determined by that of a hot surface in contact with the gas , or by calculation from its adiabatic compression .
The fact that there is a critical temperature of ignition and that the velocity of an explosion wave can be calculated from the thermal constants of the gas and air , has led to the view that the process is a thermal one throughout , with in general two stages , a period of slow combustion and rise of temperature , and the true explosion on this reaching a certain limiting value .
There is , however , a more intimate possible cause of the division of the molecule of combustible gas which precedes explosive combination .
Eecent work on the ionisation of gases has made familiar the view that a molecule can be ionised by corpuscular radiation , and that by the gain or loss of such corpuscles the nature of the molecule can be profoundly modified .
The present paper is an examination of certain typical gases and vapours for the purpose of finding evidence of the mechanism of the process by which the energy of the source is transferred to the gas at the moment of ignition .
A very full report on gaseous combustion was given by Prof. W. A. Bone at the Sheffield meeting of the British Association , in the discussion upon which Sir J. J. Thomson called attention to the possible influence of electrons in preparing the way for an explosion wave by ionising the gas.* Following this suggestion an important series of observations on gaseous ignitions has been recently made by my colleague , Mr. J. R Thompson.f He found that it is possible to ignite a cold explosive mixture by the incidence of X-rays on a platinum surface in it , and that when the source of ignition is a hot platinum wire an explosion is started at that temperature at which ions are discharged from the metal .
These observations , if they do not decide the ionic origin of gaseous explosions in general , prove that ionisation and explosion are intimately connected .
Direct evidence of the kind of electrical action which starts a gaseous explosion under normal conditions is given by the difference between the igniting powers of continuous and alternating current break-sparks .
If ignition were a simple thermal process , the igniting power , measured by varying some non-electrical factor , such as the percentage of combustible gas in the mixture , and finding the corresponding variation of the least igniting current , should be proportional to the square of the current in the circuit , whether continuous or alternating , other conditions being the same .
* ' Brit. Assoc. Rep. , ' 1910 , p. 501 .
t 'Phys .
Zeitsclir .
, ' vol. 14 , pp. 11-15 , Jan. 1 , 1913 , and 'Science Abstr .
, ' No. 631 , vol. 16 , part 4 , April 13 , 1913 .
X 2 Prof. W. M. Thornton .
But when the current is alternating , the present experiments show that the energy of the circuit required to ignite gas is much greater than when the current is continuous , in the case of methane 56 times greater at 200 volts ; the igniting effect is therefore not simply thermal .
Again , the current in a metallic circuit is proportional to the number of free electrons passing per second .
When the current is broken , these are projected into the break-spark by the electric gradient at the moment of break , and a small volume of the gas in their immediate neighbourhood is ionised by them .
If the igniting power of the current is ionic it should then be proportional to the current , when this is unidirectional , and this is found to be the case ill many gases over an important part of their working range of inflammability .
The differences between continuous and alternating current are not only in the magnitudes of the effects , but in the manner of development of the curves in a series of related gases , for example , figs. 2 and 11 for the paraffins .
The general conclusion of a previous paper* on this subject was that ignition by continuous current break-sparks depends mostly upon the nature of the arc , that by alternating current on the nature of the gas .
2 .
Experimental Details .
Method.\#151 ; The explosion vessel having been filled with a gaseous mixture of the desired percentage strength , the poles are brought into contact and separated quickly , with a pause of about a second between each trial .
When the current broken is from 10 to 20 per cent , above the least igniting current an ignition is obtained at the first or second break , and when from 2'5 to 5 per cent , below the minimum , no ignition is obtained , however many breaks are made , except in the case of some less volatile compounds in which prolonged sparking lowers the igniting current .
In the present work the least igniting current was taken to be that which caused an explosion at about the fifth break .
The black spots on the curves of results are the observed least values .
These are not the means of a number of determinations , but give the least value reached in any case .
They are correct within 2 per cent. ; the slight variations in the state of the contact rods prevent closer approximation .
A fresh charge of any mixture was taken after 20 sparks had been made in it without ignition .
In the earliest trials the process of " trial and error " as the minimum was approached was lengthy , but after the two characteristic types of current-percentage curves had been found , a single point served to fix the position of the curve , and it is now possible to determine one such curve a day .
* " The Ignition of Coal Gas and Methane by Momentary Electric Arcs , " W. M. Thornton , ' Inst. Mining Engineers Trans. , ' vol. 44 , part 1 , pp. 145-174 , Oct. 12 , 1912 .
The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
275 Explosion Vessel.\#151 ; For most of the experimental work it was found convenient to use a glass explosion vessel 2\ inches diameter , 5 inches long , with ends joined to -\#163 ; inch tubes , and having two transverse arms .S .
inch diameter , fitted with corks through which the terminal poles passed .
These were of iron , copper , or nickel , bent to cross at right angles , giving a point contact which could be renewed by sliding the rods along , and by making contact on the other side of the fixed rod .
The break was made by rotating one rod through a right angle .
Bate of Break.\#151 ; The duration of the arc at break , observed photographically by focussing it on a sensitive film attached to a revolving drum , was found to depend , in the same gaseous mixture , chiefly upon the voltage and the material of the poles .
The rate of break had a nearly constant value of 12 cm .
a second .
Except at very slow breaks , from 1 to 2 cm .
a second , differences in the rate of break by hand had no measurable influence upon the current which , when broken , just ignited the mixture .
In every case the mixture before explosion was at atmospheric pressure and in most cases at atmospheric temperature .
Material of Poles.\#151 ; In the previous work , iron and copper poles were used for the purpose of examining the influence of a break of armoured electric cable in coal mining , and nickel , because of its general use in sparking plugs of internal combustion engines .
In the present work , iron rods were used throughout , having a diameter of OT inch .
3 .
Dependence of Continuous Igniting Current upon Voltage .
The higher the voltage the less the current required for ignition .
The curves obtained , of which fig. 1 is an example , closely resemble the characteristics of steady arcs , which are known to be maintained by ionised vapour between the poles , and they have the same form at all percentages within the inflammable limits .
4 .
Relation of Current to Percentage of Combustible Gas in Mixture .
The results in the preceding paragraph are of the same type for all the gases examined .
We now consider the influence of varying the proportion of vapour in a series of gases , the chemical constitutions of which are closely related .
Paraffin Series.\#151 ; The lower limit of inflammability is very sharply marked in all gaseous mixtures .
Many have been carefully examined by Le Chatelier and Boudouard , * and the paraffin series more accurately by Burgess and * Le Chatelier et Boudouard , " Sir les Limits d'lnflanimabilite des Vapeurs , " ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 126 , p. 1510 ( 1897 ) .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
Wheeler* I am informed by Dr. Wheeler that he has found the upper limits to be equally sharp , and am permitted to quote the following values AMPERES IO PERCENT .
7-5 PER CE1 VOLTS Fig. 1.\#151 ; Variation of least igniting continuous current with voltage on circuit .
Methane .
Iron poles .
for them , expressed in percentage volume of combustible gas in the mixture with air:\#151 ; Table I. Lower limit .
Upper limit .
Methane 5-60 14 -80 Ethane 3*10 10 -70 Propane 2T7 7-35 Butane 1-65 5-70 Pentane 1 35 4-50 Between these limits there has not been hitherto any means of observing directly the inflammability of the mixture , other than by its velocity of explosion .
In fig. 2 are given curves of igniting current for the paraffin gases by the break-spark method , from which it will be seen that the change of susceptibility to ignition varies with the percentage of gas in the same * " The Lower Limit of Inflammation of Mixtures of the Paraffin Hydrocarbons with A.ir , " by M. J. Burgess and R. V. Wheeler , ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 99 , p. 2013 ( 1911 ) .
The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
277 manner for all the gases examined .
The curves have each three distinct portions , that which gives the peculiar form being a straight line passing through , or nearly through , zero , and expressing the fact that over the greater part of the range of inflammability the least igniting current is very closely proportional to the number of molecules of combustible gas in unit volume of the mixture .
At the lower limit there is a steep branch indicating that the transition from the most inflammable mixture to that which cannot amperes 6 \lt ; \#187 ; 10 II 12 .
13 14- IS 16 PER CENT OF COMBUSTIBLE GAS IN / MR BY VOLUME. .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Least igniting currents for the paraffin gases in air .
Continuous current .
Iron poles .
100 volts .
be ignited is sudden .
The upper limit is approached rather more gradually .
The fact that the projection of the straight base lines passes through zero proves that the igniting current is proportional to the absolute number of molecules , not merely to the change of percentage .
The gases were very pure .
Pentane was prepared by drawing dried air through a wash bottle containing pure Kahlbaum isopentane heated to 27 ' C. The methane , ethane , propane , and butane were very kindly prepared for me by Mr. T. F. E. Khead , M.Sc .
, under Dr. Wheeler 's direction , Prof. W. M. Thornton .
using the methods given in the paper on the lower limit of inflammability .
They had the following analyses :\#151 ; Methane.\#151 ; CH4 = 98 per cent. , 2 per cent , nitrogen .
Eatio contraction C to absorption A on explosion = 2 ( ratio for CH4 = 2 ) .
Ethane.\#151 ; C2H6 = 100 per cent. Eatio C/ A on explosion = l-245 ( ratio for C2H6 = 1-250 ) .
Propane.\#151 ; C3H8 = 99*7 per cent. Eatio C/ A = 1-01 ( ratio for C3H8 = 1 ) .
Butane.\#151 ; C4Hio = 100 per cent. Eatio C/ A = 0 871 ( ratio for C4Hio \#151 ; 0-875 ) .
The limits of inflammability found agree well with those given above , but no attempt was made to find the limits within a small percentage .
\gt ; The run of the curves from the observed points is a sufficiently close check for our purpose .
The tendency of the break-spark ignition would appear to be to lower both the upper and lower limits .
The most remarkable feature of the family of curves in fig. 2 is that the same igniting current , that is the same energy , is required for each most inflammable mixture , in spite of the great difference in the calorific values of methane and pentane .
The next is that there is no square law , except at the limiting mixtures .
The third that the most inflammable mixture is not always that in the proportions required for perfect combustion , but a mixture in which the air is in excess .
The more symmetrically the molecule is bonded the closer the coincidence , as shown in Table II ; nH is the number of hydrogen atoms in a molecule of combustible gas , nc+ h the total atoms .
Table II.\#151 ; Ignition by Continuous Current .
Gras .
Most inflammable mixture , pm .
Mixture for perfect combustion to C02 . .
Pm X \#187 ; H. Pm * 72-0 +H .
Methane per cent. 8-0 per cent. 9 5 32 *0 40-0 Ethane 5-1 5-5 30 *6 40-8 Propane 3-9 3-96 31 *2 42 9 Butane 3 1 3-07 31 *0 43 -4 Pentane 2-5 2 51 30 *0 42 -5 5 .
Influence of Number of Atoms in the Molecule upon Igniting Current .
It is safe to say on the electronic theory of conduction in metals that since the minimum igniting current is the same in every gas of the paraffin series , the same number of electrons must be discharged into the mixture .
The position of each curve in the figure depends on the slope of the base line , that is on the ratio 1/ p , where I is the igniting current and p the The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
279 percentage of gas in the mixture .
This slope is not proportional to the molecular weight or to the heat of combustion .
If the first step in electric ignition is a direct ionic attack upon the atoms in a molecule , there should be a definite relationship between the igniting current , considered as a source of ions , and the number of atoms either in the molecule of combustible gas or in unit volume .
The ratio is found to be nearly proportional to the number of hydrogen atoms in the molecule , and since hydrogen is the most easily ionised of all gaseous molecules it is at least conceivable that if the effect is due to ionisation the ignition of the complex molecule of combustible gas is started by the ionisation of its hydrogen atoms , and that in its disintegration the first compounds formed are those of hydrogen and oxygen .
This is in agreement with Prof. H. B. Dixon 's conclusion* that it is during the " preflame " period of ignition which precedes the true explosion that water vapour influences the rate of propagation .
Any " preferential " action of hydrogen and oxygen prior to the formation of carbon products will be exceedingly rapid , and is probably beyond analysis .
Writing I/ p \#151 ; Jen , where n is the number of atoms in a molecule and Jc a constant , the relative values of Jc are given in Table III for the hydrogen and carbon atoms , the total atoms in the molecule , and the oxygen atoms required for perfect combustion .
N is the number of atoms in an " explosive unit " ( see S11 ) ; Jc is the current per atom of combustible gas per unit percentage mixture .
Table III .
Gas .
i/ p. K ( = IIpn ) x 100 .
Hydrogen .
Carbon .
C + H. Oxygen for perfect combustion .
N ( see Table IV ) .
Methane 0*12 30 120 24 30 13 -3 Ethane 0*18 30 90 22 26 12 -0 Propane 0*22 27 73 20 22 10 -5 Butane .0*28 28 70 20 21 10 -4 Pentane 0*40 33 80 23 25 9-7 The outstanding result in the continuous current ignition of the paraffin series is that each gas has the same minimum igniting current .
The mixtures at which this occurs are in most cases near those for perfect combustion , and though it is clear that combustion is an important factor even in the initial * " The Initiation and Propagation of Explosions , " 'Chem .
Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 99 , pp. 589-599 , April , 1911 .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
stage , yet there is evidence that the influence of the discharge from the spark , whatever its nature may be , acts directly upon the atoms in a molecule rather than upon the molecules as a whole .
6 .
The Alcohols .
The curves of fig. 3 for methyl and ethyl alcohol are the same in type as for the paraffins , having a straight base inclined towards the origin .
The limits of inflammability are , from the curves , 5 and 21 per cent , for methyl alcohol , 3 and 8-4 per cent , for ethyl alcohol .
The most inflammable mixtures AMPERES ETHYL ALCOHOL METHYL .3. .
4- 6 8 10 12 14- 16 16 20 22 PER CENT OF VAPOUR IN AIK .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Least igniting currents of alcohol vapour .
Continuous current .
Iron and nickel poles .
100 volts .
are at 9,7 and 5-6 per cent , for methyl and ethyl alcohol respectively ; the corresponding mixtures for complete combustion to C02 are at 12*3 and 5'68 per cent. The alcohols therefore agree with the paraffins in their general mode of ignition by continuous current .
The slope I/ p of the base is slightly decreased by the addition of the oxygen atom to the paraffin molecule , so that the inflammability of the vapour measured by this slope is lower .
There is also the very interesting fact that both with iron and nickel poles the alcohol of greater molecular weight requires more current for ignition , in this respect resembling the family of curves for alternating current given in fig. 11 .
There is further similarity in .
the more rounded form of the curves .
In this case we see again that the ratio I/ p is proportional to the number of atoms tic+H of combustible The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
281 gas in the molecule more nearly than to the calorific value ; for the hydrogen atoms its values are 0032 and 0*036 ; for the carbon and hydrogen together 0*026 and 0*027 .
7 .
Benzene .
The curve for benzene ( C6H6 ) , fig. 4 , differs in important features from the preceding .
It has no straight part and is nearly symmetrical within the AMPERES C.C. A.C. ALTERNATING V .CURRENT PERCENT OF VAPOUR IN / KIR .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Least igniting currents of benzene vapour .
Continuous current , 100 volts .
Alternating , 200 volts , 36 ~ .
Iron poles .
limits of 1*24 and 6*37 per cent , found by Sorel* for pure benzene .
The most sensitive mixture is about 4*8 per cent. ; that for perfect combustion 2*73 per cent. There is clearly no relation between the latter and the shape of the curve , but the point of combustion to carbon monoxide is 4*47 per cent. The same form and position of the benzene curve is found when the current is alternating as when continuous .
The evidence is therefore strong that in so far as the magnitude of the igniting current is an * 'Carburetting and Combustion in Alcohol Engines , ' by E. Sorel , trans .
Woodward and Preston , p. 53 .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
indication of the atomic changes occurring at the instant of explosion , carbon monoxide is the chief and first product of combustion , and the formation of carbon dioxide is in this case a much slower process than in lighter gases .
Dixon has shown that combustion to carbon monoxide followed by burning to carbon dioxide is characteristic of the explosion of many gases .
The evidence given here from the circumstances of electrical ignition shows that it is much easier to ignite benzene vapour when it burns to carbon monoxide than to carbon dioxide .
This is the reverse of carbon disulphide and hydrogen , where the most inflammable mixture is that giving perfect combustion .
The benzene molecule is much more complex than either of these , and it would be interesting to examine the influence of complexity upon the type of ignition .
Pentane has little left of the straight line base .
The after-burning of benzene may be the reason why benzol fuel gives less shock than petrol : the combustion is not so sudden and is more extended over the stroke ; the minimum igniting current , 09 ampere , is however much the same as pentane , in this respect differing greatly from carbon disulphide , the next vapour considered .
8 .
Disulphide of Carbon .
This liquid is always found in commercial benzol and possibly plays an important part in the ignition of rich mixtures , for as shown by the curve of fig. 5 , the vapour is inflammable within wide limits of mixture with air .
The liquid boils at 46'2 ' 0 .
and the explosive mixtures were prepared by heating the liquid over mercury in a containing vessel and drawing a measured volume of pure gas into the explosion vessel , which was heated to prevent condensation on the glass or mercury piston .
The limits , from 2 per cent , to 45-50 per cent. , are only approximate , but the curve has the same features characteristic of continuous current ignition of the paraffins and alcohols .
The most interesting points about it are the exceedingly small igniting current , 0'32 ampere , and the fact that the point for perfect combustion is nearly the most inflammable mixture : this is at 6'5 per cent. The sensitiveness of carbon disulphide to ignition by break-sparks is in agreement with Hemptinne 's observation that detonating mixtures of it with oxygen are explosive at much lower pressures than most gases , the limiting pressure being about 13 mm. The discharge tube of glass from the explosion vessel became rapidly coated with sulphur after the ignition , suggesting a high state of atomic dissociation of the combining gas during the explosion .
It was suggested by my colleague , The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
Dr. J. A. Smythe , that , carbon disulphide being an endothermic compound , the supply of heat to it by the combustion of a small portion of the mixture ALTERNATING CURRENT CONTINUOUS -CURRENT O SIO IS 2o 2 S3o 35 40 45 So PER CENT OF VAPOUR l(N Fig. 5.\#151 ; Least igniting currents of carbon disulphide vapour .
Continuous current , 100 volts .
Alternating , 200 volts , 36 ~ .
Iron poles .
or from the arc might cause the rest to explode with liberation of free carbon and sulphur .
The explosion is violent at all percentages .
9 .
Hydrogen and Carbon Monoxide .
Fig. 6 .
In the ignition of hydrogen by continuous current break-sparks the current is found to be the same in all strengths of mixture except towards the limits of inflammability .
The ignition is therefore an isolated molecular process , independent of concentration , requiring only a certain intensity of molecular movement to be produced .
From the thermal point of view this would mean a certain critical temperature in the spark , from the corpuscular radiation standpoint a certain energy of projection from it .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
AMPEREC .
C. A.C. HYDROGEN CONTINUOUS ALTERNATING ; 30 4o PER CENT OF GAS IN AIR Fig. 6.\#151 ; Least igniting currents of hydrogen in air .
Continuous current , 100 volts .
Alternating , 200 volts , 36 ~ .
Iron poles .
[ April 8th , 1914.\#151 ; Carbon monoxide , fig. 7 , differs from hydrogen in that the continuous current curve is slightly inclined , and the alternating current curve horizontal .
These two curves show , as it were , the genesis of the straight line type from a parabola symmetrical between the limits of inflammability .
] 10 .
Influence of Circuit Voltage on Form of Curves .
All the previous work has been done with a circuit voltage of 100 .
The influence of varying the voltage is to change the slope of the base in a regular and rapid manner , fig. 8 .
Yoltage ... ... ... . .
50 75 100 125 Slope of base ... ... 0'472 0#222 0T19 0-0468 The variation is approximately as the cube of the voltage , and is such that at voltages over 100 the igniting current is nearly the same over the whole range of inflammability , a point of importance in the working of internal combustion engines .
The circuit voltage has no influence on the position of the point of greatest inflammability .
The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
1 p CONI 1NUO US c iURRE rMJ=a^ 7 A lter J NG C JURRE :NTi / \ 4 \ V y ' \ V / s ' s ' AC .
2.2 .
2.0 14- 4- S\gt ; PER CENT OF GAS IN AIR Fig. 7.\#151 ; Least igniting currents of carbon monoxide in air .
Continuous current , 100 volts .
Alternating , 200 volts , 36 Iron poles .
Amperes So VOLTS IOOVOLTV IZS VOLTS PERCENT OF GAS IN AIR Fig. 8.\#151 ; Influence of circuit voltage on least igniting current in different percentage mixtures of methane and air .
Iron poles , continuous current .
Prof. W. M. Thornton .
11 .
" Time of Explosion .
" The paraffin molecule is in general heavy and complex , and a number of oxygen molecules sufficient to form the products of combustion must surround it at the moment of disintegration .
This group of gas and oxygen molecules may be called the explosive unit , and the number of such in unit volume is proportional to the percentage strength of the mixture .
The time of explosion T depends on the number of such units per cubic centimetre , and on the mass per unit volume of inert gas which transmits energy without raising it .
The minimum time of explosion is to be found in that mixture in which the retarding influence of excess molecules which cannot enter into full combination is balanced by the accelerating influence of the energy set free by their partial combustion .
If from this point the rate of explosion falls in proportion to the increase in the mass of inert gas , and the number of explosive units is diminished in the same proportion , it follows that T will vary as the square of the change .
This is true as long as the units are so close that the space between them is not great compared with their volume after explosion , but forms as it were a shell around each .
As the limits of inflammation are approached they are so far apart that the inert gas forms a sphere around each unit and the explosive unit is small compared with the volume of inert gas .
The change of inert mass then varies as the square of the distance between the units and the time of explosion as the cube of the change of percentage .
[ The rate of change of the volume of a sphere varies as the square of its radius .
] The period known as the time of explosion would thus appear to be capable of a simple mechanical explanation .
The square law followed by petrol indicates that the explosive unit is in that case large compared with the mass of inert gas , as indeed it is known to be , and the above argument may explain why simple gases have higher limits of inflammability because of the smaller volume and mass of the explosive unit .
The shape of the curves connecting alternating igniting current and percentage strength of mixture has probably the same origin .
They are , in the more regular gases\#151 ; the paraffins for example\#151 ; parabolic at the minimum and cubic towards the limits .
12 .
Ignition by Alternating Currents .
The curves expressing the experimental relation between voltage and igniting currents , and between current at different frequencies and percentage of gas , are essentially different in type from those given above for direct The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
287 currents .
Consider first the ignition of the mixture of methane and air just giving complete combustion .
Voltage , Current , and Frequency.\#151 ; At all voltages much larger currents are required to produce ignition than with direct current .
Below 100 volts the currents are very large , from 200 to 600 volts are nearly constant , and at some point above this rapidly fall , to about 0'2 ampere at 2000 volts .
Thus , in places where electricity is used in the possible presence of inflammable mixtures , as , for example , in coal mines , alternating currents are much safer than continuous , where open sparking may occur , and the higher the frequency ( up to 100 ) the greater the safety .
The igniting current at 200 volts with continuous voltage is 0 5 ampere ; with alternating current at 200 volts and 100 periods per second the least igniting current is 20 amperes .
This is the root-mean-square value and is given in the curves , but the ignitions are always obtained from sparks giving the maximum flash , that is when the circuit is broken at the crest value of 28 amperes .
The arrangement of the resistance and inductance of the circuit was the same as that used with AMPERES 2oo 4oo 6oo 8oo iooo 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000 voters Fig. 9.\#151 ; Influence of frequency in igniting current in a 9*5-per-cent .
mixture of methane and air .
Iron poles , alternating current .
VOL. XC.\#151 ; A. Y Prof. W. M. Thornton .
continuous currents , so that the energy of any one spark is proportional to the current , not to its square .
The alternating igniting current at this voltage is 56 times greater than the least continuous current at the same voltage , and the difference shows beyond doubt that the energy of the continuous current spark is not transmitted thermally to the gas , for in that case the energies of ignition in the two cases should be the same .
The shape of the curve of fig. 9 , similar to the isothermals of vapours below the critical temperature , suggests that one of the factors in the electric circuit may become critical .
It is clear that it can only be a time effect , and that time must play an important part in the phenomena of ignition .
The horizontal part of the curve disappears , as shown , both at high and low frequencies , for at the highest frequencies it is practically a continuous arc , and at the lower it approximates to the direct current hyperbolic type .
At moderate frequencies the arc in reversing strikes across the ionised vapour in the break gap and may persist for several periods .
If the break occurs in less than ( K)5 second\#151 ; the minimum time of ignition\#151 ; the critical change of energy in the gas may never pass into the explosion stage .
There should then be some period at which the remarkable influence of frequency reaches a maximum .
The highest frequency in the present case at which it was possible to make measurements was 100 a second , and it is seen from fig. 10 that the maximum is being here approached .
At frequencies of several hundred periods per second ignition will no doubt be obtained by AMPERES 90 100 no 12.0 60 70 PERIODS PER SECOND Fig. 10.\#151 ; 9'5-per-cent , mixture of methane and air , most difficult to ignite at 100 periods per second .
Iron poles , alternating current .
The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
smaller currents .
The curves are of the usual trial and error type and show that the approach to the maximum is a statistical one , but the effect of raising the frequency is to avoid , as far as possible , the ignition of the gas and the curves would be symmetrical about the point of maximum difficulty of ignition .
If the ignition of a gaseous mixture is a thermal process alone the frequency of the current should have no effect as distinct from the energy of the spark , but it has , in fact , an exceedingly great influence on the magnitude of the current required to be broken , an influence which can only be accounted for by the rapid alternation of the voltage between the poles preventing the free escape of ions from the spark .
There is again one frequency at which the horizontal portion of the curve is longest .
This is when the frequency is about 50 , and is much more marked when the poles are nickel.* An approximation to the form of the curve is obtained by considering the ordinates to be inversely proportional , not to the voltage alone as in fig. 1 , but to the product of the voltage and the time of duration of the break-spark .
At low voltages this duration is directly proportional to the voltage , it then reaches a maximum , falls over a long range of voltage and rises again as the gradient becomes so great that the air in the gap is ionised by it alone .
For direct currents I = afV where is a constant ; writing for alternating currents I = aVS , where S is the duration of the spark , the igniting current will vary little from B to C , fig. 11 , if it SECOND \ L i i B ' / / / " " I 1 1 / / / 1 1 \ \ J v / - / / / L V / ~T f L \ \ \#151 ; i~ / / r A .
c VOLTS .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; Influence of voltage on duration of continuous current break-sparks in methane , 9*5 per cent. Circuit non-inductive .
Iron poles .
depends on the product .
This product is known to be constant for a portion of the steady continuous current arc characteristic .
When S is directly * " The Ignition of Coal Gas and Methane by Momentary Electric Arcs , " loc. cit. , fig. 16 .
Y 2 Prof. W. M. Thornton .
proportional to V , as from A to B , IV2 is constant , and as S rises again above C , I falls in the same direction as before towards the horizontal axis .
When the voltage is high enough to strike a continuous stream of sparks between the poles when separating , S is infinitely large .
The time of duration depends on the inductance of the circuit .
In all these alternating current experiments the circuit was non-inductive , that is the power-factor was never less than 0'95 , and the currents fad a pure sine wave form .
13 .
Relation of Igniting Current to Percentage of Gas in Mixture .
Paraffin Series.\#151 ; Working with alternating current more trials are required than with continuous currents to obtain the least igniting current , for the poles may be separated at a value approaching zero , or at a crest value of the current .
In the one case there is no arc , in the other it is at a maximum .
The final critical igniting current is , however , little affected by the uncertainty of break .
The curves of fig. 12 obtained for the paraffin gases are remarkably uniform AMPERES PROPANE I ETHANE .
IO II 12 .
13 I A- 15 16 PERCENT OF GAS IN AIR Fig. 12.\#151 ; Least igniting currents for the paraffin gases in air .
Alternating current , 200 volts , 36 ~ .
Iron poles .
The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
291 in type and fit closely into a regular scheme .
Their most striking feature is that the higher hydrocarbons are the most difficult to ignite by break-sparks , a fact which must profoundly affect our measure of inflammability .
They can be ignited in weaker mixtures , but not so readily .
Pentane takes three times more energy to ignite by alternating currents than methane .
Another interesting feature is that the curves are as nearly as possible symmetrical between their upper and lower limits of inflammability , the maximum inflammability being at the mean of the extremes .
In the family of curves for continuous current in fig. 2 the minimum currents are the same throughout , in that for alternating currents in fig. 12 the product of the minimum current and the percentage at which it is found is the same for every , as shown in Column 7 , Table IY .
The heat of combustion of pentane is four times greater than that of methane and it cannot be suggested that the gas is more difficult to ignite because of its greater heat of combustion , for the alternating igniting currents of ethyl and methyl alcohol are the same , fig. 13 .
AMPERES i IO 12 14 .
16 18 20 22 PERCENT OF VAPOUR IN MR .
Fig. 13.\#151 ; Least igniting currents for alcohol .
200 volts , 36 ~ .
Iron poles .
14 .
Atomic Nature of Break-spark Ignition .
But if it is true that combustion is the formation into more stable compounds of molecules electrically unsaturated and that no combination takes place until they are ionised either wholly or in part , it would follow Prof. W. M. Thornton .
that the igniting current should be proportional , if the process is molecular , to the number of molecules of combustible gas in the mixture , or if it is atomic , to the number of atoms of one or more of the constituent elements .
Prom Table IV it will be clear that , as in the continuous current case the igniting current was most nearly proportional to the number of hydrogen atoms in a molecule of the combustible gas , it is here proportional to the total number of atoms in each molecule of combustible gas or in each explosive unit .
It follows that the product of the number of molecules of combustible gas in the most inflammable mixture and the number of atoms in each of its molecules should also be constant , and this is seen to be the case in the last column , Table IY .
N is the number of atoms in an explosive unit , 1STC the number of atoms in a molecule of combustible gas , the percentage of gas in the most inflammable mixture , and I the lowest point of the curves:\#151 ; Table IY .
Gas .
Formula .
Formula weight .
Least current , I. P min. N. I xpm .
I N N xpm .
Methane ... ch4 16 2-7 10 -2 9 27 5 0*30 91-8 51 -0 Ethane c2h6 30 4*0 6 9 15 28 -3 0*27 103 55 -2 Propane ... c3h8 44 6*45 4-8 21 30 6 0*30 100 52 '2 Butane c4h10 58 8'8 3-75 27 32 6 0*32 100 51 -8 Pentane ... CsHJ2 72 9*2 3 05 33 26 -7 0*28 96 51 -8 Mean values 29 -1 i [ -294 98 -3 52 -4 The family of curves in fig. 2 for continuous current may be represented by the equation I = Jcpn , where k is the same constant for all the paraffins , p the percentage of gas in any mixture , and the number of atoms in a molecule of combustible gas .
The corresponding equation for the alternating current curves of fig. 12 is I = aNc + \amp ; ( p\#151 ; Pin which the constant a is the same for all the gases , and b a constant for each gas , increasing with its molecular weight .
These equations give the igniting current for any percentage p of combustible gas in air .
Methane appears in this to be somewhat out of line with the others .
The values of b are , from the curves of fig. 12 , b. b/ mol .
wt. Methane 0-605 0-0378 Ethane 0-601 0-0200 Propane 0-909 0-0206 Butane 1-30 0-0224 Pentane 1-40 0-0194 The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
293 For the paraffins , therefore , continuous current ignition above the point of perfect combustion varies as the percentage of combustible gas , alternating current ignition as the square of excess of either of the combining gases on each side of the point of maximum inflammability .
There can be no doubt that the shape of a molecule must in some way affect its resistance to being broken up , so that great uniformity can scarcely be expected in numerical results of this kind .
The methane molecule CH4 must differ from the higher homologues of the form CH3-CH2-CH2-CH3 , and the results with ethane , propane , and butane agree well together in all cases .
The explanation of the difference in type of the benzene and carbon-disulphide ignitions may be that in the latter case there is explosion ( without intermediate stages ) , and that in the former , however ignited , there is first very full dissociation of the molecules around the spark .
15 .
Cause of Difference between Continuous and Alternating Current Ignition when the Gas Percentage is Varied .
The continuous current curves of figs. 2 , 3 , 5 , and 7 derive their peculiar form from the fact that the igniting current increases in proportion to the number of molecules of combustible gas in unit volume of the mixture .
The alternating current curves in general are entirely different in shape , and are nearly symmetrical within the limits .
The minimum current , either continuous or alternating , must clearly occur at that mixture in which selfignition is most easily started , and since with continuous current ignition the forcing action of the spark quite masks any changes in the gas in contact with it , it is interesting to examine the conditions most favourable to alternating current ignition .
The values in Column 5 , Table V , are of the percentage of combustible gas ignited by the minimum current .
Table Y. \#151 ; Ignition by Alternating Currents .
Limits of inflammability .
Mean .
Observed minimum , from fig. 11 .
Combustion to C02 , at per cent. Combustion to CO , at per cent. Mean of two last .
Methane ... 5-7 14 -8 10 *25 JO 9 5 12*0 10 \#166 ; 7 Ethane ... 3 1 10 -7 6-90 6-9 5 5 7-7 6-6 Propane ... 2-17 7-35 4-76 4 3 -96 6*0 4-98 Butane ... 1 -65 5 '7 3 '67 3-75 3-07 4-38 3-72 Pentane ... 1 35 4-5 2 '92 3-05 2-51 3-61 3-06 All the paraffin gases are therefore most easily ignited by alternating arcs in mixtures giving combustion neither to CO nor C02 , but to the Prof. W. M. Thornton .
mean of these , and these again agree with the means of the upper and lower limits .
It would appear from this that the limits of inflammability of the paraffin series , and possibly of others , may be controlled by dilution of the most inflammable mixture symmetrically on either side of combustion intermediate between CO and C02 .
In the case of carbon disulphide and hydrogen there is explosion rather than relatively slow combustion , and the conditions are not the same .
Thus while continuous current ignition is easier in mixtures approaching perfect combustion , as shown in Table II , with alternating current an excess of combustible gas favours inflammation ; and there is no change of type , but a regular fall and rise of the igniting currents between the limits .
16 .
Alcohol .
The alternating current ignition curves are given in fig. 13 .
They have the same parabolic form as the paraffins , but , unlike them , have the same minimum current , in this resembling the continuous current paraffin curves of fig. 2 .
The limits of inflammability given by Sorel are 2'5 and 8*8 per cent , for ethyl alcohol , 4-8 and 20 for methyl alcohol .
Both limits are slightly higher here .
The minimum currents occur at 6-3 and 13 per cent. , a ratio of 2-06 .
The ratio of the lower limits of inflammability is T9 and of calorific values T9 .
The ratio of the oxygen required for perfect combustion of ethyl to that for methyl alcohol is also 2 .
It is possible that all the other ratios depend on the oxygen required for complete combination .
The ignition is thus more thermal in type than that of any of the other gases examined ; alcohol engines might then run to best advantage with a hot spark .
The igniting current , at atmospheric pressure and temperature , is about 0'7 of that required for benzene , or of hexane , the chief constituent of petrol .
Complete combustion to C02 occurs at 12*3 per cent , for methyl alcohol , 6'5 per cent , for ethyl alcohol ; the most readily ignited mixtures are at 13 and 6*3 per cent , respectively .
In the paraffin series the product of the percentage at the minimum of the curve and of the number of atoms of hydrogen in a molecule was constant .
This is not the case for the alcohols , as shown in Table VI .
The product of pm and the atoms of oxygen required for perfect combustion is 39 for methyl alcohol , 37'8 for ethyl alcohol .
It is probably the oxygen and not the carbon atoms which decide the position of the minimum of the alternating current curves for alcohol ; for both Coquillion and Sorel have observed that the upper limit of inflammability The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
appears to correspond to the quantity of oxygen capable of burning the hydrogen ( Sorel , loc. cit. ) .
Table YI .
pm x number of atoms in a molecule .
Alcohol .
.Pm .
Pm X N. I Carbon .
Hydrogen .
Total .
Methyl 13-0 13 .
52 -0 78 117 Ethyl 6 3 12 37 *8 56 *7 96 17 .
Benzene .
With alternating current arcs the most easily ignited mixture is at 4-5 per cent. , as seen in fig. 4 .
Combustion to C02 is at 2'73 per cent. , to carbon monoxide at 447 per cent. The curve is symmetrical about the point of combustion to carbon monoxide alone .
The alternating igniting currents are more than 12 times greater than with continuous voltage .
The incomplete combustion of benzene in explosion indicated by these results may account for the apparently unavoidable deposit of carbon in engines driven by benzol .
18 .
Carbon Disulphide .
This curve ( fig. 5 ) is remarkable for its resemblance to the continuous current curve .
The least alternating current is about seven times greater than the least continuous igniting current .
The limits were not found , but the curve indicates that they are between 1 and 2 , and between 40 and 45 per cent. The ignition of carbon disulphide by alternating current break-sparks is of a more violent or forced character than in most gases .
It should be excellent as a starter of ignition , and this may be its chief rdle in commercial benzol for internal combustion engines .
It may be well not to attempt to remove it completely in spite of the corrosive action of its products .
The most inflammable mixture is near the point of perfect combustion to C02 .
19 .
Hydrogen and Carbon Monoxide .
The ignition of hydrogen by alternating current break-sparks has several interesting features .
The lower limit is about 10 per cent. From this the curve ( fig. 6 ) falls as if to a minimum at 42 per cent. , the point for perfect combustion , and almost midway between the limits usually given of 10 and 72 per cent , when ignition is by high tension sparks .
But at 32 per cent , the ignition suddenly changes type , the curve becomes a straight line Prof. W. M. Thornton .
passing nearly through the origin and extending to 70 per cent. , at which point there is evidence of a more rapid rise of current .
There is here a more than usually clear combination of the alternating and continuous types of ignition .
Carbon monoxide , fig. 7 , shows a transition between the types ; the continuous current curve between the paraffins and hydrogen , the alternating .current curve between hydrogen and the symmetrical parabolic curve .
20 .
Absence of Influence of External Ionisation .
Although it would appear from the nature of the results that the influence of the arc is confined to a small volume\#151 ; a few molecules thick perhaps\#151 ; around it , yet within that space the action must be intense .
The effect upon the igniting current of exposing the gas in the explosion vessel to any ionising source such as X-rays or strong ultra-violet light ( through quartz windows ) is too small to observe when there is no platinum present .
It was less than 0*5 per cent , with illuminating gas at atmospheric pressure , which , containing a large proportion of hydrogen , might be expected to be sensitive to ionisation .
A glowing static discharge from needle points had also no perceptible influence on ignition .
21 .
Summary of Alternating Current Results .
The difference between the continuous and alternating current results arises from the rapidly-reversing electric field across the spark dragging the electrons or ions from pole to pole and preventing their escape into the gas .
Alternating igniting currents have therefore to be much greater than continuous currents at the same voltage .
This difference is increased by the approach of the period of the current to the time of duration of the break-spark .
The latter varies with the voltage in such a manner that the igniting current remains constant in value over a long range of voltage .
The igniting currents of the paraffins increase as the order rises , the 'product of the minimum current for each gas and the percentage at which it occurs being constant .
The product of the number of atoms in a molecule of combustible gas and of the above percentage is also constant , so that the number of atoms in unit volume in all of the most inflammable mixtures is the same .
The igniting current is most nearly proportional to the number of atoms in the group of one molecule of combustible gas and the oxygen required for combustion forming an explosive unit .
The paraffin gases , after methane , are most easily The Electrical Ignition of Gaseous Mixtures .
297 ignited at a percentage giving combustion midway carbon monoxide and dioxide , and both limits of inflammability are symmetrical from this point .
Benzene is most easily ignited when burning to carbon monoxide , alcohol to carbon dioxide .
Carbon disulphide and hydrogen have the forced or continuous current type of ignition .
External ionisation which does not itself cause ignition has no measurable influence on the least igniting currents by break-sparks .
22 .
Conclusion .
On the whole it would appear to be probable from the great differences in magnitude and type between continuous and alternating current ignition that some kind of ionisation precedes combustion , for the evidence is strong that a relation between electrification and chemical change not unlike that of ordinary ionisation occurs at ignition , caused possibly by the violent collisions which must occur in the gas in contact with high-temperature sparks .
That a gas has a particular temperature of inflammation may mean that ionisation by collision begins at this temperature\#151 ; as in the case of ignition by hot wires quoted in S1\#151 ; with absorption of energy from the source or , later , from that liberated by recombining atoms .
On this view , when the molecular energy set free by combustion of a molecule exceeds that required for initial ionisation of an adjoining molecule there is true explosion , and since it is probable that all three modes of molecular motion , translation , rotation , and vibration , have part in the process of ionisation by collision , the influence of temperature , which depends only upon the translational energy , may be in certain cases of secondary importance .

