]\gt ; [ 445 ] XII .
The Supersaturation and Nuclear Condensation of Certain Organic apours .
T. H. LABY , B.A. , College , Cambridge , of of University of Sydney , Joule Student of the Royul Societ ticated by Profe .
J. J. THOMSON , F.R. Received April 10 , \mdash ; Read April 30 , 1908 .
in Wate ?
THE first precise measurements of the conditions .
condensation when dust-free air saturated with water vapour is expanded were made by C. T. P ) .
He calculated the cooling due to the adiabatic expansion , and then the saturation , which is the ratio of the actual pressure of the water yapour at the end of the expansion to the saturated vapour of water at the temperature at the end of the expansion .
Mr. WILSON obtained the results riven in the , table , in which is the ratio of the initial to the final gas } ) ressm.e in the expansion ) It was concluded from the size and number of the nuclei ) the cloud-like condensation that they were small aggregates of water molecules .
'Phil .
Trans , 189 , p. 265 ( 1897 ) .
( 438 .
) -t4 ( ; .
T. H. LABY ON THE RSATURATION AND With a large apparatus ( with working parts of brass ) WILSON36 some time later showed , in the absence of ( artificial ) external ionising rays and of an electric field , that rain-like condensation took place in air saturated with water vapour at an expansion of , while with an electric field no drops were produced even by an expansion of .
Thus the natural ions act as condensation nuclei for expansions of .
The number of natural ions per cubic centimetre deduced from the number of drops is in agreement with the number obtained by other methods .
The simplest interpretation of WILSON'S experiments is that there are three kinds of nuclei concerned in condensation .
Nuclei of one kind are naturally present in dustfree air , oxygen , ogen ( hydrogen ?
) , carbon dioxid chlorine ; they are increased in numbers by Rontgen and Becquerel rays , ] light acting on a negatiyely charged zinc plate , and they are electrically ) ged and produce condensation in water vapour when it is supersaturated at least times ; in short , these nuclei are ions .
Another type of nuclei are uncharged and are possibly aggregates of water molecules , as mentioned aboye .
A third kind are present near the surface of zinc , lead , and amalgamated zinc plates , are uncharged , and act as nuclei when the supersaturation is not less than The tive Efficiency of Positive and Negative Ions .
WILSON showed in 1899 , using air and water vapour , that the negative ions are more efficient in producing condensation than the positive , for he found that expansions greater than caught the negative ions , while both the positive and negative were caught by expansions greater than .
It is to be noticed that the second point cannot be determined as readily or with the same accuracy as the first one .
Previous Work on Organic Vapours.\mdash ; F. G. DoNNAN determined the expansion necessary to produce rain-like condensation , and a fog in dust-free air , saturated with the vapours of some carefully purified organic liquids .
K. PRZIBRAMS has made observations on the condensation of organic vapours in ionised air .
He has followed WILSON in carrying out his experiments .
The piston of his expansion apparatus worked in paraffin oil , which would seem undesirable when using yapours soluble in that oil .
xperimental :Expansion Apparatus .
modifications of the expansion ) aratus have been tried .
It was not easy to 'Phil .
hlag June , 1904 , p. 681 .
'Phil .
Trans , 193 , pp. 289-308 ( 1900 ) .
'Phi ] .
Mag March , 1902 , 1 ' .
305 .
S 'Sitzungsber . .
kais .
Akad . .
Wissen .
in Wien , ' Math.-naturw .
Kl .
, Band 115 NUCLEAR CONDENSATION OF CERTAIN ANIC obtain a durable piston for expansions up used is drawn in Fig. 1 .
The glass piston A slides freely in B. By pulling the lass rod , the rubber bung is withdrawn from the mouth of the tube , the air inside A flows suddenly into an exhausted globe , the piston descends rapidly through the mercury , and is suddenly brought to rest by the rubber bung L. Its ground edge remains in contact with the rubber , and so no mercury or gas escapes B. As the action of the piston is very regular , as shown by the constant pressure after expansions , its dimensions may be worth mentioning .
They are : height , diameter weight 42 grammes .
is a mercury pressure gauge in communication yith B. The reservoir is for and the of the mercury in B. is form of apparatus can be readily taken to pieces and cleaned , which often necessary , since a number of liquids were used .
To obtain a given expansion , the piston A was adjusted in position until the initial pressure was the necessary one for that expansion .
pressure in the 25-litre globe , with which the tube Mr T. H. ON THE .
SUPERSATURATION AND kept below 80 mm. of mercury .
With this pressure the piston falls rapidly\mdash ; so rapidly , in fact , that a number of pistons were broken .
The amount of the expansion in any experiment is measured by where is the ) arometric pressure , the saturated yapour pressure of the liquid at temperature initially ) , and the initial and the final of the P. mber , used to find the least expansion to produce condensation in dust-free air saturated with the various organic vapours , is drawn in fig. 2 .
It was Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
made so that only mercury and glass come in contact with the vapour .
The testtube is fitted by the rubber cork to the expansion apparatus E. Mercury and then the liquid to be used are admitted from , until the liquid , which is always above the mercury , overflows into and the lower part of the apparatus .
When the apparatus is in use , liquid under examination lies above the mercury , as NUCLEAR CONDENSATION OF CERTAIN ORGANIC VAPOURS .
indicated in the figure .
A thin film of the liquid also spreads over the terior surface of , and so it is to be expected that the air in is quickly saturated with its vapour .
The beam of light , obtained from an incandescent nlantle , ( see also the upper part of fig. 4 ) , with a slit about 1 cm .
wide , was focussed inside the test-tube T. All other light was excluded and a black background obtained by means of black velvet .
Most of the drops formed by an expansion could be readily seen on looking from E. Another expansion chamber was used to determine the sign of the charge of the more efficient ionic nucleus .
It is drawn to scale in fig. 3 .
is a portion of a glass tube , in length and .
in diameter , with ground edges .
The ends of the chamber are thick aluminium discs , A and B. The joints between these and the glass cylinder , and between and , are made by means of the rubber rings R. Three bolts such as , insulated from A by vulcanite collars , press the aluminium ends and and the connector against the rubber rings R. The joint obtained in this way is air-tight and remains so .
The chamber is divided an upper and lower half by a thin diaphragm , , of cms .
meter , supported by projections pressing against E. Thus there is an annular space 3 mm. wide between the edge of the diaphragm and the wall E. In to make the lower half of the chamber as similar as possible to the upper , a second phragm , , of the same size as , is placed over the outlet in the end , and is connected to by of a spiral of platinum wire .
A rin of thin aluminium , , 1 cm .
in width , was placed symmetrically around , in order to reduce the intensity of the rays the walls of the yessel , for it is here that the Rontgen rays ( mentioned later ) incident .
The ends A and , \amp ; c. , made of object , and because the liquids used , when dry and pure , were found not to any chemical action on aluminium .
It it necessary to have the central phragm D electrically connected to the exterior of the vessel .
A tapered aluminium wire filled a hole in the glass wall at and was cleated down on the inside and waxed on the outside .
The cleated end is in contact with , which supported D. This gives which protects the sealing wax from the action of the liquids used .
Rontgen rays ( see fig. 4 ) from a large bulb and coil pass through a slit between two lead blocks .
thick and cm .
apart .
The narl .
OW band of rays thus obtained passes through the ionisation chamber above and below the diaphragm D. The relative positions of the bulb , slit , and expansion chamber were finally adjusted by means of a barium-platino-cyanide screen placed at With these adjustments made , the shadow at of the diaphragm edge-on formed a dark line across the middle of the " " image\ldquo ; of the slit .
Separation of Positive and Negative Ions .
The terminals of a two-volt cell were connected to a potentiometer wire of fig. 4 ) of 2000 ohms resistance ( with contacts at every 20 ohms ) , which was connected VOL. CCYII1 . .
@ .
T. H. LABy ON THE SUPERSATURATION AND at the middle to and to earth .
The potential of the top of the expansion chamber and the lower diaphragm by connecting them to these contacts could be varied between and volt ( in steps of volt ) with respect to the middle diaphragm D. In a number of experiments , the top in one expansion was at volt , and the bottom at ; in the next expansion the potentials of these plates were reversed .
When the Rontgen rays from the bulb pass through the slit , they ionise above and below the diaphragm a thin layer of the mixture of air and the vapour present .
The secondary rays produced by the primary inside the expansion chamber would produce a few ions throughout all the interior .
With the diaphragm earthed , the top negatively and the bottom positively charged , the ions stream as indicated in fig. 4 .
' EARTH Fig. 4 .
If then an expansion be made of the dust-free air and vapour ( within one second ) after cutting off the Rontgen rays , positive ions will be present in the top partition , and negative- in the bottom , which-h will act as condensation I-t is to NUCLEAR CONDENSATION RTAIN ORGANIC VAPOURS .
expected that in the top partition the negative ions formed by the secondary rays are removed by recombination with the more numerous positive ions present there .
of the Drops .
The expansion chamber was obseryed from ( fig. 4 ) in a direction making a small with the beam of light ( from the incandescent gas mantle I ) , which was brought to a focus inside the chamber by means of the lens L. With the eye on a level with the diaphragm , drops in both the top and bottom partitions of the chamber could be observed at once on a round formed by black velvet .
The switch in the primary of the induction coil , which worked the -ray bulb at was placed close to the handle for " " firing\ldquo ; the expansion apparatus , and so with a metronome beating half-seconds the Rontgen rays could be cut off at given intervals before the expansion was made .
This metronome was also used for timing the rate of fall of the drops .
Results with Air Water The following results show that the expansion apparatus is capable of giving results suitable for absolute measurements .
( The numbers represent expansions .
) Air ihally Swith Water Vapour .
Test-tube No drops : .
Drops : ( many ) , ( fog ) .
There- fore the least expansion for condensation on nuclei is , and fogpoint .
Chamber with no drops , four drops seen , many drops , many .
Expansion for Rontgen ray ions .
The values in brackets are those obtained by C. T. R. WILSON .
The agreement between the two sets of results is evidence that the expansion in the writer 's apparatus is sufficiently rapid to giye good results .
of Liquids .
The writer wished to calculate from the results obtained with the liquids he used the supersaturation , and the radius of the nuclei causing condensation , as Mr. WILSON has done for water .
To do this it is necessary to know the saturated vapour pressure , , of the liquid at room temperatures and possibly lower , and also its surface tension and density at this lower temperature .
There are not very many MR. T. H. LABy ON THE SUPERSATURATION AND liquids for which these have been found .
YOUNG and THOMAS* have determined a number of constants for ten carefully purified esters .
The data required exist or can be calculated for the formic to -valeric series of acids .
A study of these esters and acids shows how homologous and isomeric compounds behave .
Liquids used .
All the liquids used were KAHLBAUM'S preparations .
They were fractionated with a 12-bulbed ( pear-shaped ) still-head .
The boiling-points , at 760 mm. pressure , given differ from those obtained by YOUNG and HOMAS and others partly on account of errors of the writer 's thermometers .
A more reliable criterion of purity is constancy of boiling-point .
: Dried with phosphorus pentoxide and then fractionated from it .
The fraction used boiled from to C. ( C. YOUNG and THOMAS ) .
Methyl cetate : Dried with phosphorus pentoxide and fractionated from it .
After three fractionations the portion boiling at ( to YOUNG and THOMAS ) was collected and used .
Ethyl : Fractionated from phosphorus pentoxide , the first portion rejected and that boiling at YouNG and THOMAS was collected .
Propyl cetate : Dried with phosphorus pentoxide ; fractionated twice .
The slightly hydrolysed distillate was treated with potassium carbonate , and then with phosphorus pentoxide , and distilled .
Boiling-point to 10 9 ( YOUNG and THOMAS ) .
Afethyl : Fractionated ; the portion boiling at 10 9 ( YOUNG and was distilled from phosphorus pentoxide .
Methyl -butyrate : Fractionally distilled , treated with phosphorus pentoxide , and distilled , then with potassium carbonate , followed by phosphorus pentoxide .
Boiling- point to ( YOUNG and THOMAS ) .
: Distilled from phosphorus pentoxide , and redistilled .
Boilingpoint to ( YOUNG and THOMAS ) .
Formic acid : KAHLBAUM'S best acid was used direct from the sealed glass flask it was tsupplied in .
Boiling-point ( RICHABDSON , SCHMIDT 10 4 , ROSCOE , PERKIN Acetic Fractionated five times ; final fraction boiled at to , but the freezing-point appeared low , indicating the presence of water .
The stock acid was then three times crystallised , twice distilled ; it then gave a boiling-point of to ll 05( YOUNG'S " " Fractional Distillation and a freezing-point of HOLLEMAN'S " " Organic Chemistry Propionic was distilled from phosphorus pentoxide , and twice fractionated .
The portion used boiled from to 13 1 ( RICHARDSON ) .
'Trans .
Chem. Soc 63 , 1220 ( 1893 ) .
NUCLEAR CONDENSATION OF CERTAIN ORGANIC VAPOURS .
n-Butyric was fractionated once , and the portion ( nearly the whole of the original ) boiling between 16 5 and was used ( RICHARDSON ) .
Iso-butyric was fractionated .
Boiling -point to ] RICHARDSON ) .
Iso-valeric was treated with phosphorus pentoxide , and twice distilled .
Boilingpomt 17 to 17 RICHARDSON , SCHMIDT , LANDOLT ) .
Amyl alcohol : KAHLBAUM'S ( pyridine ) inactive was fractionated .
Boiling-point to YOUNG and SCHMIDT ) .
Some optically active alcohol was present in the final fraction which gave ; for active amyl alcohol Least Expansion for Condensation in of an exposed to Rontgen Rays .
The test-tube expansion chamber of glass and mercury , already described ( see fig. 2 ) , was used to find the least expansion to produce condensation in a mixture of air and an organic yapour when exposed to ntgen rays .
The air in carefully cleaned apparatus was dried by placing an open tube containing phosphorus pentoxide inside ( fig. 1 ) .
In removing this tube less than 1 mgrm .
of water as vapour gained admission to the apparatus .
The organic liquid was then admitted by means of the stop-cock funnel ( fig. 2 ) to aboye the mercury .
The dust present in the apparatus settled out on standing the vessel ( say ) overnight .
It was more quickly removed by small expansions .
It is worthy of remark that some vapours could be freed from dust by the latter method distinctly more quickly than others .
Thus four or expansions freed air and ethyl propionate from dust , while air and water vapour have always taken more expansions than that .
Since the writer has found , certainly in the case of some vapours , that the least expansion for condensation depends slightly on the intensity of the Rontgen rays , it is necessary to roughly specify the intensity of the rays used in the experiments to be described .
A large bulb with a heavy water-cooled anti-cathode driven by a Marconi induction-coil was used as the source of the Rontgen rays .
The alternative spark gap was from 5 to 10 .
The anti-cathode was 46 .
from the expansion chamber .
The rays had to penetrate the wall\mdash ; about cm .
thick\mdash ; of the glass test-tube expansion chamber .
With some vapours the drops obtained were very minute , so were not readily seen , and did not settle out quickly .
With such a vapour it was necessary , after an expansion giving a number of drops , to either wait some time for them to settle out , or to make a small expansion and so condense larger drops on these nuclei left over from the previous larger expansion .
Most of the vapours examined , especially the esters , gave only a few drops with the least expansion producing condensation , and on slightly increasing the expansion the number of drops did not increase as rapidly as they do in the case of water vapour .
This makes the least expansion for condensation a less precise point with these vapours than it is with water and substances which behave like it in this respect .
Usually more than one series of experiments were made with each yapour .
Examples of the nature of the results obtained are given below , where the different series of observations are combined together .
Air Ethyl Propionate .
Rontgen Rays .
No drops : Drops : The apparatus was cleaned and refilled .
No drops : Drops : ( 2 drops seen ) , The first gives the condensation expansion as , the second as Mean Air and Acetic Acid .
Rontgcm Rays .
No drops : With drops : , 1497 ( fog ) , ( fog ) .
Least expansion for condensation The drops obtained in these expa sions are very small .
With feeble Rontgen rays a larger expansion than was necessary .
These feeble rays were from the same bulb , but the alternative spark gap was 5 .
instead of 10 , and an aluminium screen mm. thick was placed between the bulb and the expansion chamber .
Feeble Rontgen Rays .
No drops : With drops : , 1479 , ( many drops ) .
Least expansion for condensation This is distinctly larger than the expansion with the more intense rays .
This matter is being further investigated by using -rays from radium and from thorium , but the results so far obtained have often been contradictory .
Of the substances tried , acetic acid showed this effect of the intensity of the Rontgen rays on the least expansion for condensation the most .
NUCLEAR CONDENSATION OF CERTAIN ORGANIC VAPOURS .
of Least nsions for Condensation of in Air acted upon by Rontgen Rays .
Vapour .
Expansion .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl iso-butyrate Propyl acetate 1.310 Ethyl propionate -amyl alcohol 1 182 Vapour .
Expansion .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl iso-butyrate Propyl acetate 1.310 Ethyl propionate -amyl alcohol 1 182 Vapour .
Expansion .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl iso-butyrate Propyl acetate 1.310 Ethyl propionate -amyl alcohol 1 182 Vapour .
Expansion .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl iso-butyrate Propyl acetate 1.310 Ethyl propionate -amyl alcohol 1 182 Vapour .
Expansion .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl iso-butyrate Propyl acetate 1.310 Ethyl propionate -amyl alcohol 1 182 Vapour .
Expansion .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl iso-butyrate Propyl acetate 1.310 Ethyl propionate -amyl alcohol 1 182 Vapour .
Expansion .
Formic acid 1.782 Acetic acid 1.441 Propionic acid 1.343 -butyric acid 1.380 Iso-butyric acid 1.360 -valeric acid No very regular relationship can be seen between the constitution of } ) vapours and the least expansion necessary to produce condensation in air saturated with them .
The expansion , with some exceptions , decreases with increase of molecular weight .
On calculating , however , the supersaturation , which exists in the vapour at the moment before condensation takes place , more regular relationships become evident .
lculation of for The calculation of the supersaturation which exists before condensation takes place has been made for gases saturated with water vapour by Mr. WILSON .
* When air expands adiabatically , the final temperature is given by the relation , . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) where and are the initial and final volumes , and the initial and final temperatures of the air , and the ratio of its specific heats ; We will assume ( the assumption will be discussed later ) that this elation gives final temperature of the mixture of air and yapour in a condensation experiment .
This then becomes the temperature of the air and vapour at the end of the expansion before any condensation has taken place .
The supersaturation , , is conveniently defined as the ratio of the pressure of vapour 'Phil .
Trans , 189 , p. 265 , 1897 .
Instantaneous Temperature by a Platinum bout half way through this tion , the writer thought of using a thermometer ( after the manner ENDAR determines cylinder temperatures ) to find the lowest instantaneous temperature prodnced by an expansion .
There appe to be , however , an unsurmountable difficulty .
A slight supersaturation would cause condensntion on the thermometer wire itself , and the latent heat of condensatio1l would he the wire .
I eeIl such condensation actually take on a hair in the apparatus .
A stream drops fell from it when the expansion was made .
The presence of the wire would alter the conditions of the experiment .
It inly would be far more satisfactory to determine the lowest temperatures directly if it were ) MR. T. H. LABy ON THE SUPERSATURATIO AND finally at before drops are formed to the pressure of vapour over plane surface of liquid at , so that , . . . . .
( 2 ) where is the saturated pressure of the vapour temperature , and at The expansion decreases , to , and the temperature falls in the ratio In deducing the above formula , and in using it to calculate supersaturations , it is assumed ( A ) that the final temperature when a mixture of air and vapour expands is given by the relation ( I ) , and ( B ) that BOYLE'S and CHARLES ' laws hold for the vapour .
The assumption that BOYLE'S and CHARLES ' laws hold for the vapours named on p. 455 seems unavoidable , *since the experimental data do not exist which would enable the supersaturations to be calculated without assuming these laws .
Consider assumption ( A ) : for it to be true , the expansions must be ( 1 ) adiabatic , and ( 2 ) the formula must hold for the mixtures of air and organic vapour used .
( 1 ) The expansion is believed to be adiabatic on these grounds : WILSON has most carefully tested the matter , using two very different apparatus , one of which had no piston .
The piston of the other was light and the expansion must have been very rapid , certainly more rapid than in the first .
The mean of a number of experiments , using air and water vapour gave with each apparatus the same value , , for the expansion which caught the natural ions present .
The writer 's result for this point was , both at the inning and the end of his experiments .
Let be the final temperature in these three experiments , if the mean expansion were adiabatic , and let the rise of temperature due to the ingress of heat by convection , conduction , and radiation from the walls of the expansion vessel in the different conditions of the three experiments be .
The actual final temperatures would then be , but since in each case these were the temperatures at which condensation just began , they were experimentally the same .
Thus are too small to be observed , and the expansions were adiabatic .
Further , WILSON found for condensation with air and water , and the writer 's apparatus gave .
In these two experiments we have the same final temperature , that necessary for fog-like condensation .
The same final temperature is , however , only obtained from equal expansions of in different apparatus , when the expansions are not only adiabatic , but are such that the whole lowering of temperature To supply evidence that BOYLE'S and CHARLES ' laws are applicable to supersaturated vapours would mean a separate and difficult research .
I can think of no direct soIution .
Professor determination of , the charge on a negative ion , is an indirect test of the applicability of these laws in the case considered , for in that method of determining the quantity of water condensed by an expansion in ionised air and water vapour is calculated by an application of the gas laws .
Dr. H. A. WILSON'S melhod for does not assume those laws .
The results of the two methods could be compared .
They agree when water vapour is used .
Both are subject to large errors .
NUCLEAR CONDENSATION OF CERTAIN ORGANIC VAPOURS .
takes place before any condensation occurs ; for otherwise , when the expansion reaches ( say , for example ) , drops will be formed on the natural ions present and the temperature will rise with the liberation of the latent heat of condensation , and this rise of temperature will be different in different apparatus .
Since actually the final temperatures were the same , we conclude that was no rise of temperature in this manner and the expansions were strictly adiabatic .
( 2 ) The formula is for air the expression of the observed results of LUMMER and and MAKOWER'S experiments , in which were directly observed .
With air in an engine cylinder CALLENDAR has observed with a platinum thermometer a change of temperature of as large as 24 C. , that is , from to 21 C. A more exact calculation will now be given of ( for the conditions of experiment given in the next table ) when air initially saturated with an organic vapour expands .
RICHARZ calculated for a mixture of gases .
The following indicates how hisS result is obtained .
Let the mixture and each component gas have the masses 1 , the densities ( at 760 mm. and a common temperature ) the specific heats at constant volume the ratio of specific heats , i.e. , and let be the gas constant for a gram-molecule ( M ) of a gas .
Then , . . . . . . .
( 3 ) and the specific volume of the mixture ; ( const .
) , since is proportional to , and and are constant .
Whence ( 5 ) By eliminating in ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , and re-arranging terms Whence by ( 5 ) SMITH , ' Cont .
to Knowledge , ' 1903 .
'Phil .
Mag February , 1903 , p. 226 .
'Proc .
Inst. Civil Eng 131 , Pt. I. , p. 170 ( 1897-8 ) .
S RICJIARZ , ' Ann. .
Phys 19 , 639 ( 1906 ) .
VOL. CCYIII .
\mdash ; A. 3 MR. T. H. LABy ON THE SUPERSATURATION AND This formula has been used to find as shown in the following table .
In the calculations , as air is one of the component gases , gm .
molecular gm .
where has the values given in the table on.p .
460 , have been used .
for Air Saturated with a Vapour .
tcetic a The supersaturation in the last column is that obtained when is used in calculating it .
The above values of are from LANDOLT , BoRNSTEIN , and MEYERHOFFER'S tables , and could not be found for any of the other vapours used in these experiments .
Assuming is not less than for propionic to iso-valeric acids and propyl to iso-amyl alcohols , it can be shown that for these substances would have closely the values ( S ) given in the table on p. 460 .
For the esters would be in the same ratio as the values of given , but would be smaller .
For formic has been assumed ; it gives , while , if is used , The values for the least expansion for condensation in the oase of the alcohols are those of PRZIBRAM except value amyl alcohol , which , who used both radium and Rontgen rays as ionising agents .
Though he does not explicitly state what ionising agent was used to obtain these particular values , it would appear the rays from radium were used in the case of ethyl , propyl , iso-butyl , and iso-amyl alcohols .
for -butane with 14 atoms in the molecule is 1 108 .
for penta atomic is 1 27 .
I admit that this application of Richarz ' formula is open to criticism .
Previously the presence of the vapour has not been taken into account at all .
The calculations I give are intended to show that the values for are not greatly altered when the presence of the vapour is taken into account .
The paucity of data such value association constant ) for the vapours used in these experiments makes a satisfactory treatment impossible .
It is trusted tha the calculations giyen are no-t without value , CONDENSATION OF CERTAJN ORGANIC yAPOURS .
Discussion of Results .
The values of the expansion in the last table are thought by the writer to be accurate to .
An error in a value of the expansion gives rise to a larger error in the value of the supersaturation derived from it .
This will be seen on examining the figures for iso-amyl alcohol , for which an expansion of means a supersaturation of , and an expansion of an of .
In this case an error of ( per cent. ) in the expansion gives rise to an error of ( per cent. ) in the supersaturation ; similar figures hold for the other vapours .
Besides the error arising from an error in the expansion , another is introduced in the supersaturation in calculating it by the formula ; for , the saturated pressure of the vapour at the low temperature at the end of the expansion , has to be found in several cases by extrapolation .
Though all the vapourpressure data available have been used , and the inter- and extrapolations have been made with the greatest care by RAMSAY and YOUNG'S method , by the KirchhoffRankine formula and by graphical methods , it has not been possible to obtain very accul.ate values of in the case of the acids .
We cannot expect , then , that the relation between the chemical constitution of a vapour and the supersaturation causing condensation in it to be very precise .
Some general relationships , however , seem clear .
turation and Constitution .
In the case of the esters and acids the supersaturation decreases with increasing molecular weight .
Ethyl propionate , and the isomers butyric and iso-butyric acids , are exceptions to this statement .
Of the four isomeric esters , three , namely , methyl butyrate , methyl -butyrate , and propyl acetate , have ( to quite as high a degree of accuracy as could be expected ) the same supersaturation , namely , about .
Ethyl propionate deviates.from this value .
The isomers -butyric acid and iso-butyric acid have also approximately the same supersaturation .
In the case of the alcohols , after the first of the series the supersaturation increases regularly with the molecular weight , thus : *Where had to be calculated , the extrapolation was made by two of the above-mentioned methods , and in every case these two results were found to agree as closely as the observations of different observers when extrapolated among themselves .
MR. T. H. LABy ON THE SUPERSATURATION AND NUCLEAR CONDENSATION OF CERTAIN ORGANIC VAPOURS .
Alcohol .
Supersaturation .
Difference .
2.56 Propyl 3 .
0.47 Iso-butyl 063 Iso-amyl The acids and esters require a larger supersaturation to produce condensation in ionised air than the alcohols do .
With the exception of iso-valeric acid , the acids require larger supersaturations than the esters\mdash ; the supersaturation for formic and the butyric acids being extraordinarily large .
One would have expected the association existing in the molecules of the vapour of cetic and some of the other acids to facilitate condensation .
The relations existing between chemical constitution and supersaturation will be seen from the followin Esters .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 4 ) The general nature of the affect of a given group of elements on the magnitude of may be stated thus : rbonyl , .
The presence of this radical is associated with a , as shown by the acids and esters .
Alkyt-groups , The presence of these appears to contribute only a small amount to the value of S. The regular increment in for ethyl , propyl , iso-butyl , and iso-amyl alcohols indicates that *Using in each calcuIation .
MR. T. H. LABy ON THE SUP RSATURATION AND the effect of these radicals , though small , is proportional to the number of carbon atoms in them .
Hydroxyl , .
This group is present in the alcohols which have the smallest values of , and in the acids which have the largest values .
It may be that when the -OH group is combined with carbonyl carbon in a compound that compound has a large , while when it is combined with alkyl carbon the value of is small .
must be known for more varied compounds than the above before this action of hydroxyl can be tested .
Theory of Condensation on Ionic Nudei .
The theory of the condensation of drops has been given by several writers .
Lord ] well-known result showed that the surface tension makes the vapour pressure of a small drop greater than that of a large one .
Professor J. J. THOMSON , in 1886 , deduced an expression for the diminution in the vapour pressure of a drop when it is charged electrically .
The combined effect on condensation of the surface tension of a drop and the charge it receives when it condenses on an ionic nucleus has been given by J. J. THOMSON , BLOCH and LANGEVIN , C. T. R. WILSON .
S Size of Charged Drop in Equilibrium with turated Vapour .
Professor THOMSON finds that the vapour pressure of a drop as altered by its charge and surface tension is given by , . . . . .
( 6 ) when is independent of , where is the radius , the vapour pressure , the temperature , the charge , the density , and the surface tension of the drop ; is the gas constant for unit mass of the vapour , the pressure of the vapour in equilibrium with a very large drop ; is the specific inductive capacity of the dielectric surrounding the drop .
When the drop is uncharged , i.e. , , it will evaporate in the unsupersaturated vapour .
When it is charged it increases in size until , i.e. , , or , by ( 6 ) , until .
for water in C.G.S. units , taking electrostatic units .
'Proc .
Roy .
Soc. Edin 7 , p. 63 ( 1870 ) ; also HELMHOLTZ , ' WIED .
Ann 27 , 508 ( 1886 ) .
'Applications of Dynamics to Physics and Chemistry , ' London , 1888 ; 'Conduction of Electricity through Gases .
' 'Ann .
Chem. et Phys [ 8 ] , IV .
, p. 135 , January , 1905 .
S 'Smithsonian Report , ' p. 195 ( 1904 ) .
NUCLEAR CONDENSATION OF CERTAIN ORGANIC VAPOURS .
1 have calculated for the following substances:\mdash ; .
RADIUS of Drop with Charge Electrostatic Units in Equilibrium with the Saturated Vapour at C. Methyl butyrate Methyl iso-butyrate Propyl acetate .
Ethyl propionate Formic acid Acetic acid .
Propionic acid .
Radius molecule * The surface tensions used in calculating the above tables are from RAMSAY and and RAMSAY and determinations , which were made with only the liquid and vapour present in the measuring apparatus .
This value of is practically the same for the organic liquids , with exception of formic acid .
The volume of one of these organic liquid drops would be three times that of the water drop in equilibrium with aqueously saturated air at the room temperature .
Supersaturation .
According to the theory we are considering , the presence of electrically charged nuclei in a vapour will cause it to condense and form small drops .
The charge on these drops tends to make them grow larger , while their surface tension tends to make them evaporate .
Their size , when in equilibrium with the vapour , depends on its pressure .
There will be a pressure which will enable the drops to grow to such a size that the effect of surface tension will be overcome , and , if the vapour pressure be kept up , the drop will become very large .
In a condensation experiment in which the expansion is just sufficient to cause condensation , the vapour pressure at the instant when the expansion ends is sufficient to make the very small ( invisible ) drops grow to a large size .
Professor J. J. THOMSONS has shown how this last vapour pressure may be found .
JEANS , ' Dynamical Theory of Gases , ' Cambridge , 1904 , p. 340 .
'Phil .
Trans , 184 , p. 647 ( 1893 ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc 56 , p. 163 ( 1894 ) .
S 'Conduction of Electricity through Gases , ' 2nd Edition , p. 180 ( 1906 ) .
MR. T. H. LABy ON THE SUPERSATURATION AND If is the radius of a drop ( with charge e ) which is in equilibrium with the saturated vapour , and its radius when in equilibrium with the vapour at a pressure , then where For water at C. we have cm .
, dynes/ cm .
, so that for it .
The graph of this function ( which is typical of the organic vapours as well ) is given in fig. 5 , where , the supersaturation , is the ordinate , and the abscissa is the Fig. 5 .
Radius of charged drop in equilibrium with water vapour various pressnres .
radius of the drop with a vapour pressure .
It will be seen that as increases from a very small value to 1 , the size of the drop changes very little .
When is , its maximum value , the radius of the drop is .
Any further increase in makes the drop grow to a very large size , or visible condensation takes place .
The AB portion of the curve represents unstable equilibrium , for increases as diminishes .
For condensation to take place , must be slightly greater than its value at , which is the value of in the above equation when is a maximum , i.e. , when , or and Thus the value of given by the expression the least value which will cause condensation .
The values which the equation gives are stated below for a number of esters , acids , and alcohols .
, the surface tension , was found at the required temperature by plotting RAMSAY and SHIELD'S , and RAMSAY and values of at different temperatures ; straight lines were nearly always obtained from which the required NUCLEAR CONDENSATION OF CER'fAIN ORGRGAN VAPOURS .
VOL. CCVIII.\mdash ; A. yalue of could be found .
The densities given* were corrected for temperature by using the obseryed coefficients of expansion .
In this equation for oxygen would be , and for a gas of molecular weight is .
The molecular weight of acetic acid has been taken as 120 , as found by BINEAU and RAMSAY and YOUNG .
The values of , the radius of a drop with charge , in equilibrium with its saturated vapour , in the preceding table are slightly different to those given previously , for yaries a little with the temperature , which in this table is , the temperature at which drops are formed in the expansion experiments .
Discussion of Calculated and Observed turations .
In calculating the supersaturation in the last table no account has been taken of the variation of surface tension with the thickness of the surface film .
REINOLD and RUCKER'S observations show that the surface tension of a water film begins to depend on the thickness when the film is about cm .
thick .
For thickness.es less than this diminishes , but passes through maxima when the film is and when cm .
( Johannot ) thick .
Lord RAYLEIGH , however , found that one interpretation of his experiments led to the conclusion that an oil only one molecule thick still had surface tension .
The equation has been applied above to drops of about cm .
adius .
It is to be expected that for the surface films of such drops has a smaller value than for thick films .
This would lead to a calculated value of , that is of , which would be too large\mdash ; a difference that the last table exhibits , for in all but two cases ( formic acid and methyl alcohol ) the calculated value of is larger than the observed .
On this view we would conclude that the surface tensions of acetic , propionic , butyric , and iso-butyric acids do not vary with the thickness of the surface film , since the calculated value of for these acids rees with the obseryed .
Condensation on Nuclei .
The least expansion producing condensation in the absence of Rontgen rays was deterlnined with the mercury sealed test-tube expansion chamber of fig. 2 .
The following is an example taken at random of the observations obtained .
Dust-Free Air Saturated with Acetate .
Natural Nuclei .
Expansions Without drops : With drops : Least expatlsio for condensation *VAN NOSTRAND'S ' Chem. Ann. ' 'Trans .
Chem. Soc 49 , p. 790 ( 'Phil .
Mag October , 1899 , p. 23 NUCLEAR CONDENSA ION OF CERTAIN oR VAPOTJ RS .
The results of these experiments , as a whole , were more regular than those obtained when the air and vapour were ionised by rays .
The number of expansions made in order to determine yaried from 7 to 20 for the different substances , and on the average was 14 .
After acetic acid had been exposed to the rays from radium or from thorium very inconsistent observations were obtained .
The vapour pressure of tertiary amyl alcohol was assumed to be between 5 and 15 mm. at C. order to calculate the expansion .
Air and .
Ncxtural Nuclep No drops : Drops : Least expansion for condensation C. T. R. WILSON , using a small apparatus , found Imlnediately before the above experiments the following observations were obtained with the apparatus .
) air and water vapour bein exposed to Rontgen rays during the expansion .
Air and .
liont en Rays .
No drops : , 1224 , Drops : , 1241 , ( thin cloud ) .
Thus least expansion for condensation is ' ( WILSON ) .
The least expansions for condensation found from expel.iments just described are given in second column of the table on the following page .
The nuclei in the condensation we are must be natural ones present in the dust-free air .
found , as we saw earlier in this paper , the same expansion caught the natural nuclei as caught the lluclei by I{ontgen , Becquerel , and other rays ; and he showed also that the natural nuclei could be remoyed by an electric field , so they were the ions which normally exist in the air .
* The vapour pressure of tertiary amyl alcohol at C. has not been determined .
It may be calculated thus : If represents the nbsolute temperature when a liquid A has a vapour pressure , then we know that tertiary alnyl Now this ratio is known to vary only slightly with the temperature ; for several alcohols it changes .
0002 per degree .
Therefore the temperature of water when it has the same vapour pressure as tertiary amyl alcohol at is tertiary amyl But at for water is 9 8 mm. So , according to this Iling , for amyl alcohol at 27317 is 9 8 mm. 'Phil .
Trans , 189 , p. 265 1897 ) .
'Phil .
Trans , 192 , , 408 ( 1899 ) , With the substances used by the writer in every case a larger expansion ( as is shown in the following table ) was necessary to cause condensation in air not acted on by Rontgen rays than in air so acted on .
LEAST Expansion for Condensation .
Vapour .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl -butyrate .
Propyl acetate .
Ethyl propionate Formic acid .
Acetic acid Propionic acid -Butyric acid Iso-butyric acid Iso-valeric acid Iso-amyl alcohol Water Vapour .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl -butyrate .
Propyl acetate .
Ethyl propionate Formic acid .
Acetic acid Propionic acid -Butyric acid Iso-butyric acid Iso-valeric acid Iso-amyl alcohol Water Vapour .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl -butyrate .
Propyl acetate .
Ethyl propionate Formic acid .
Acetic acid Propionic acid -Butyric acid Iso-butyric acid Iso-valeric acid Iso-amyl alcohol Water Vapour .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl -butyrate .
Propyl acetate .
Ethyl propionate Formic acid .
Acetic acid Propionic acid -Butyric acid Iso-butyric acid Iso-valeric acid Iso-amyl alcohol Water Vapour .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl -butyrate .
Propyl acetate .
Ethyl propionate Formic acid .
Acetic acid Propionic acid -Butyric acid Iso-butyric acid Iso-valeric acid Iso-amyl alcohol Water Vapour .
Ethyl acetate Methyl butyrate Methyl -butyrate .
Propyl acetate .
Ethyl propionate Formic acid .
Acetic acid Propionic acid -Butyric acid Iso-butyric acid Iso-valeric acid Iso-amyl alcohol Water tVithout rays .
With Rontgen rays .
Difference .
0.024 0.067 and Nudei .
The differences between the expansions necessary to catch natural and Rontgen-ray nuclei arises partly probably from the size of the expansion chamber .
We have seen ( p. 445 ) that , by using a large apparatus , WILSON found for air and water vapour the expansion for the natural nuclei was the same as for Rontgen-ray ionic nuclei .
Thus the differences in the table above must arise partly from the size of the apparatus .
In the experinuents made by the writer to determine the natural nuclei poin in aqueously saturated air only a few drops were seen with the smaller expansions drop , fiye drops , .
Further , it was found that a drop may be formed and not be seen if the observer 's eye has been exposed to anything but feeble light immediately before or during the experiment .
Thus the small number*of natural nuclei ( and consequently of drops ) which are dealt with in these experiments lead to a value for the expansion required to catch the natural nuclei which is too large .
This difficulty does not arise with the far more numerous Rontgenray nuclei .
While it is thought that the above factors may account for the differences of in the last table , they can scarcely account for the larger differences for formic , acetic , and butyric acids .
These differences are very probably * The natural ionisation in hydrogen in a closed vessel is only of that of air [ WILSON , ' Proc. Roy .
Soc 69 , p. 277 ( 1901 ) ] , and consequently WILSON did not observe condensation the natural clei in NUCLEAR NSATION OF CERTAIN ORGANIC VAPOURS .
connected with the phenomena that the least expansion necessary to catch the nuclei produced in air and acetic acid yapour depends on the intensity of the Rontgen rays .
Thus the least expansion for condensation in this acid with intense -rays was found to be ( see p. 454 ) , and with feeble rays .
Now the radiation which produces the natural ionisation in air is largely due to a penetrating radiation*of very small intensity .
will } ) cessary to make a special investigation to clear up the question of the relative efficiency of the natural nuclei and the -ray ionic nuclei in case of formic , acetic , and butyric acids .
Professor BARUS observed , in 1906 , that the intensity of the Rontge]l rays similarly affects condensation in air and water vapour .
In the table on p. 470 the least supersaturations which will produce condensation on the natural nuclei have been calculated .
has been used in each case .
The values of used in this paper have been inter-and extra-polated by the method of RAMSAY and YOUNG , the Kirchhoff-Rankine formula , and graphically .
of each substance is for a lower temperature in the table on p. 470 than in the case of the table on p. 460 , and consequently the above values of the supersaturation are less accurate than those en in the latter table .
For this reason the relation of to chemical constitution is discussed for condensation in air ionised by Rontgen rays .
It will be seen , how ever , that the supersaturation necessary for condensation on natural nuclei is related in essentially the same way to the chemical constitution of the vapour as in the case already discussed .
Sign of the of the more Efficient It has been mentioned how C. T. R. WILSON found that a smaller supersatul.ation gave condensation on the negative ion than on the positive in air initially ated with water , or , in other words , how he found the negative ion to be the more efficient nucleus for water vapour .
The chief difficulty encountered in finding the more efficient ion for organic vapours was to make an expansion chamber of material which is unacted upon by them .
Sodium silicate , lead.oxide and glycerine , sealing wax , rubber dissolved in benzine , were tried as cements for the joint between the aluminium and glass in the apparatus described on p. 449 ; the two first , which were not acted upon by esters , failed to make a permanently gas-tight joint .
Sealing wax and rubber are acted upon by many organic liquids .
If , however , the vapour only of the ester ( say ) is allowed to come in contact with the rubber , the action is very slow and the rubber appears unaffected .
A sensitive method of detecting the action of the ester on the rubber is to determine the expansion necessary to catch -ray nuclei immediately after filling the apparatus with the ester , and then again twenty-four hours or so later ; a change McLENNAN , ' Phys , Rev 16 , p. 184 ( 1903 ) ; RUTHERFORD and COOKE , ibid. , 16 , p. 183 ( 1903 ) .
'Physical 22 , 2 , February , 1906 .
NUCLEAR CONDENSATION OF CERTAIN ORGANIC VAPOURS .
in the value of the expansion is an indication that the ester has acted on the rubber .
Acetic acid and inactive amyl alcohol ( iso-butyl carbinol ) , when tested in this way , and when tested directly , were not found to act on the rubber used in the writer 's apparatus .
All the vapours tried condellsed more readily in air on the positively charged nuclei than on the negative , as is seen below .
Rontgen rays were the ionisin agent .
which Condense with a Supersaturation on Positive Nucleus on the Negative .
Ethyl acetate , methyl butyrate , propyl acetate , acetic acid , amyl alcohol inactive PRZIBRAM .
cit. has found in addition to the aboye:\mdash ; Methyl alcohol , ethyl alcohol , iso-amyl alcohol , heptyl alcohol , chloroform , ethyl iodide .
It is remarkable that there is only one vapour ( water ) so far known which condenses more readily on the negative than on the positive ion .
Bubbling LENARD* showed that when water splashes against a metal plate it charges the plate positively and the surroundin air negatively ; a little later Lord KELVIN observed the electrification produced by air in bubbling through water\mdash ; the air became negatiyely and the water positively charged .
The air near the Niagara Falls is known to be strongly negatively charged .
Professor has suggested a double-layer theory to account for these observations .
" " When air bubbles through water , or when the area of a drop is suddenly increased by the splashing of the drop against a plate , a virgin surface of the water is exposed to the air ; if , as seems to be the case , a double layer of electricity is formed at this surface , and if the ions in the layer next the air come from the air , then there must be left in the air an excess of negative ions if the outer coating is positive , and of positive if the outer coating is negative On this view for a water drop the negative layer is next to the water and the positive layer to the air .
Professor THOMSONS has further pointed out that if this double layer exists at the surface of an ionic condensation nucleus , and if the layers are in the same order on both positive and negative nuclei , then the relative efficiency of the nuclei will not be the same .
For example , if the water nuclei have the negative layer inside , as indicated by the bubbling and dropping experiments , then the negative ion will be a ' WIED .
Ann 46 , p. 584 ( 1892 ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc 57 , p. 335 ( 1895 ) .
'Conduction of Electricity through Gases , ' 2nd Edition , p. 428 .
S .
cit. , p. more efficient nucleus for the condensation of water vapour than the positive , for in this case the field of the negative nucleus due to the ionic charge is in the same direction as that due to the double layer ; while for the positive nucleus these fields are in opposite directions .
In the first case the effect of the charge in making the ion efficient as a condensation nucleus is increased , and in the second it is dimLnished .
Thus the double-layer theory requires , in order to account for the observed greater efficiency of the negative nucleus than the positive , that the negative layer on a water drop should be next to the water and the positive layer next to the air .
This we have seen is also the arrangement of the layers to be expected from the fact that water becomes positively charged when bubbled .
In other words , this theory requires that the sign of the charge acquired by air , when it is bubbled through a liquid , should be the same as the sign of the charge on the more efficient nucleus for the condensation of the yapour of that liquid .
The eleven liquids mentioned on p. 471 have been found by PRZIBRAM and myself to condense on the positive nucleus more readily than on the negative .
In the case of these substances the theory requires that when air is bubbled through them the liquid should become negatively charged .
When the liquids were bubbled , all that were tried , with exception of acetic acid , became negatively charged in agreement with the theory .
Ethyl alcohol is the only one of the liquids which had been previously examined in this way ; LENARD found in two experiments with alcohol containing 9 per cent. of water the electrification on bubbling to be once and once in terms of his unit .
In the writer 's experiments a small wide-mouthed bottle was insulated by attaching it with sealing wax to a disc of vulcanite .
A foot bellows , which gave a sufficiently uniform pressure , forced air through two tubes containin cotton wool , calcium chloride , and solid caustic soda .
The dust-free and dry air passed through a vulcanite tube insulator to a glass tube which dipped below the surface of the liquid in the bottle .
When the bellows were in action , a steady stream of bubbles was formed in the liquid .
The electrification produced was detected by attaching a wire dipping in the liquid to one pair of quadrants of a Dolezalek electrometer which gave from 4000 to 5000 mms .
deflection per volt on a scale at about 2 meters .
The bottle and wire were shielded from inductive effects by an earthed metal vessel .
The drift of the spot was generally observed for four minutes while the air was bubbling through the liquid and for the same time without bubbling .
The difference in the drift gave the electrification due to the bubbling .
For nearly all the liquids tried the effect was larger the first time the liquid was bubbled than for subsequent bubblings .
For methyl and ethyl alcohols the electrification was small and could just be detected with certainty .
It was found that different samples of KAHLBAUM'S I methyl alcohol , which had been distilled after drying over lime , became sometimes positively and sometimes NUCLEAP OF CERTAIN ORGANIC atively eified .
But when some of this alcohol was carefully by conversion into methyl oxalate and by subsequent hydrolysis , ( 2 ) by distillation after treatment with sodium\mdash ; both products behayed alike and became llegatively The sign of the charge acquired by the liquids which have been examined when bubbled was as follows:\mdash ; ELECTRIFICATION Bubbling .
Puri.fication of Liquids .
Methyl lcohol : ( 1 ) KAHLBAUM'S alcohol was converted into methyl oxalate by anhydrous oxalic acid ; the resulting oxalate was washed and hydrolised by sodium hydrate .
The alcohol obtained was distilled , and then distilled from lime .
( 2 ) The same initial alcohol was treated with metallic sodium , and distilled .
Ethyl alcohol : Distilled from lime from marble , and then from a small piece of sodium .
Density at gms .
per cubic centimetre .
( Absolute alcohol has a density of ) Chloroform : Twice distilled , boiling point to at 777 mm. iodide : Once distilled .
The other liquids were the same as were used in the condensation experiments ( see p. 452 ) .
The result for acetic acid is not in agreement with the double-layer theory , though the acid used had been purified by fractional crystallisation and distillation .
It has been mentioned that other anomalous results have been obtained with this acid .
Fog-like Condensution .
Some obseryations were made to find the } ansio necessary for .-like colldensation in certain orgallic .
But point at which this kind of condensation took lace v not usually sufficiently ] defined for the results to be very ; for , as the expansion was increased aboye that which caught the natural lluclei , the number of drops continuously increased .
In this respect acetic , propionic , -bntyric , and -yaleric acids , methyl butyrate , and propyl acetate are unlike water .
Tertiary amyl alcohol behayes more like water : with it an expansion of gives many drops , the condensation becoming fog-like when the expansion is increased VOL. CCVIII .
\mdash ; A. 3 ( 1 ) The least expansion which causes condensation in air initially saturated with an organic vapour and ionised by Rontgen rays has been determined for five esters , six acids ( formic to iso-valeric ) , and iso-amyl alcohol .
( 2 ) In the case of acetic acid the expansion required was greater for feeble -rays than for more intense ones .
( 3 ) The supersaturation existing at the end of each of the expansions mentioned in ( 1 ) has been calculated , and also for four alcohols and chloroform , from PRZIBRAM'S experiments .
( 4 ) The acids are found , on the whole , to have the largest values of and the alcohols the least .
The isomers examined have the same value for , with one exception .
In the case of the alcohols , ethyl to iso-amyl , a fairly regular decrease in accompanies the addition of a group .
( 5 ) The existing theory of condensation on ionic nuclei has been given , values of have been calculated from it , and compared with deduced from the observed expansions .
The agreement in the case of acetic , propionic , -butyric , and iso-butyric acids and methyl alcohol is very close .
( 6 ) The expansion and supersaturation necessary for condensation on the natural nuclei have been determined for the same ( dust-free ) vapours .
In the case of formic , acetic , and butyric acids a distinctly greater expansion is required to catch the natural nuclei than that required for the ionic nuclei produced by Rontgen rays .
( 7 ) As the expansion was increased in the absence of artificial ionisation the number of drops usually increased continuously with it , so that the fog-point was ill defined , except in the case of tertiary amyl alcohol .
( 8 ) Ethyl acetate , methyl butyrate , propyl acetate , acetic acid , iso-amyl alcohol were found to condense for a smaller supersaturation on the positive nucleus than on the negative .
Water is the only known substance for which the negative ionic nucleus is more efficient than the positive .
( 9 ) On bubbling air through methyl , ethyl , and iso-amyl alcohols , ethyl acetate , propyl acetate , methyl butyrate , oform , and ethyl iodide they became atively electrified .
This was the sign of the electrification to be expected Professor THOMSON'S double-layer theory of the relative efficiency of ionic nuclei .
I wish to thank Mr. C. T. R. WILSON for most helpful discussion , and Professor THOMSON for many suggestions and his inspirin interest .

