A b kb k i i iE hbc ~ ~ aHF Fig. 2 .
AG A B CC ha fDC f Fig. j. NI gg BQOMK Fig. 6 .
B Fig. 4 .
Fig.3 .
PL R R V2S T T V. A Botanical Description of the Flower and SeedVessel of the Plant , called Crocus Autumnalis Sativus , that produces the true English Saffron of the Shops : With a Figure .
By Dr. James Douglas , Honorary Fellow of the College of Physicians , and Fellow of the Royal Society .
THE Flower of this curious Plant is of the Lilly Kind , monopetalous , infundibuliformis , without any Calyx or Perianthium , its long fistulous Beginning being afterwards expanded into six beautiful oblong Segments .
Vid. Lit. A. A. Fig. 6 .
It consists of the following Parts , viz. the Petalum , the Stamina , the Apices , the Ovarium , and the Stylus ; with its Capillamenta Tubiformia , of all which in Order .
PETALO N. The Petalum is distinguished into a long , hollow , or fistulous Part , which lies enclosed within the common and proper Involucra of the Plant , arising from the Top of the Ovarium , or Seed-Vessel , and six Segments .
Vid. Lit. a. a. While this narrow , tubulous Part runs between the Leaves and Integuments that surround them , it is of a white Colour ; but , as soon as it is disengaged from these , it insensibly acquires a Purple Colour , which , a little before its Division , as it begins to be enlarged , and grow more open , inclines to a Red .
This narrow fistulous Part of the Flower , about 1 or 2 Inches above the Theca Communis , forms six foliaceous Segments , or divides into so many oblong Purple-coloured Petala .
Vid. Lit. b. c. Three of these Flower-Leaves are larger than the other three , but , in all other Respects , are much alike .
Vid. Lit. c. c. c. The Length of the largest is from 1 3/ 4 , to 2 Inches ; the Breadth seldom above 1/ 2 Inch : The shorter Leaves are from 1 , to 1 3/ 4 Inch in Length , their Breadth being something less in Proportion .
The Inside of each Petalum is of a Violet PurpleColour , veined with a few small Lines of a deeper Dye , running length-ways , intermixed with White , or the whole is beautifully checquered with Blue and White Colours .
The Outside is of a whiter Blue , with several whitish Risings or Ridges , and just at the Bottom of the Leaf it is of a deeper Blue ; the three small Leaves ( Vid. Lit. b. b. b. ) are much of the same Colour , only the Purple seems to be something deeper .
The Number of the Petala is , for the most Part , 6 ; yet , in some Flowers we may observe 7 , or 8 ; but then they are not so large as when they are fewer .
STAMIN A. In every Flower there are three Stamina , or Chives , ( Vid. Lit. d. d. d. ) properly so called , arising from the inner Surface of the tubular Part of the Flower , just before its Division into the Petala , where they make , for some Space , an apparent Ridge , and then they stand upright , opposite to the three large Leaves ; they are of a whitish Colour , inclining to a light Purple , being but little above 1/ 4 of an Inch in Length .
In those Plants that have 7 or more Petala , the Number of the Stamina is likewise increased to 5 , or more .
APICE S. Each of these Stamina has its proper Apex , ( Vid. Lit. e. e. e. ) which is a peculiar longish Substance , standing upright , opposite to the larger Flower-Leaves , of a Yellow Colour , forked , not unlike the Tongue of a small Bird , at the lower End , where it is fixed to the Stamen ; here likewise it is broadest , but as it ascends it becomes narrower , and its upper Extremity is a little crooked , or turned to one Side : It seldom exceeds 1/ 2 Inch in Length .
It appears as if it was double , with a longitudinal Furrow in the middle , in which Hollow the Stamen seems to be faintly continued for some Space .
When the Plant is full grown , they are all loaded with that Kind of small Dust called Farina faecundans .
OVARIU M. Called likewise the Vasculum Seminale , and Pistillum by some .
Vid. Lit. f. f. It is a particular Body , which arises from the Top of the Pedunculus , ( Vid. Lit. g. ) about 1/ 4 of an Inch long , or a little more , of a deep White Colour , three cornered , and divided into three Loculamenta , or Capsul~ , in which the Seeds ( which however seldom come to Perfection with us ) are formed , growing bigger and bigger after the Flower falls off ; nay , even in this blooming State , if you cut this Vessel across the middle , you may perceive the whitish Rudiments of the Seeds .
STYLU S. From the upper Part , or Apex , of the Ovarium , arises the Stylus , ( Vid. Lit. h. ) which is a long slender Tube , that lies enclosed within the tubulous or fistular Portion of the Flower , being there of a whitish Colour , but changing into a Yellow before its Division .
This Stylet ordinarily splits into 3 Parts , just opposite to the Top of the Stamina , where the Apices take their Rise , ( Vid. Lit. i , i , i. ) and thus far it stands upright in the Middle of the Stamina ; for the sake of which only , this Plant is cultivated , and being prepared , ( as shall hereafter be described ) makes the true Saffron of the Shops , which we so frequently use in Physic .
I call these Parts of the Stylus , from their Figure and Shape , Capillamenta Tubiformia , or , Appendices Styli Salpingoeides , in as much as they very exactly represent a Trumpet , and are not unlike the Falloppian Tube in Women , being narrow at their Origin , and growing gradually larger towards their other Extremity ; which , like the common Trumpet , is open and expanded ; and , like the Tubae Falloppii , is jagged , or fringed at the Edge .
Vid. Lit. k , k , k. It may also be very fitly named Crocus officinarum , because that is the Part only that is used in the Shops .
They are of a Yellow Colour , just at their Beginning , continued from the upper Part of the Stylus , but afterwards they are all of a deep Red Colour , only their jagged Extremities are tipped with a White inclining to a Yellow .
These Tubae , or Capillamenta , are from 1 , to 1 1/ 2 Inch in Length .
The Stylus , while undivided , is strong enough to support itself , being enclosed within the tubular Part of the Flower ; but the Capillamenta being very weak and slender at their Beginning , this occasions them to hang down between the Petala .
FIGURE 6 .
Represents a Root of the Saffron-Plant , that has two Stalks enclosed in one common Vagina , the whole Flower with the Stamina and Apices in one , and the Stylus only in the other ; with the Leaves , Pedunculi , and Ovarium in both , being fairly delineated from the Life .
A A. The Flower expanded into six beautiful Segments .
a a. The Fistulous Part of the Flower .
b. c. The six Petala .
c. c. c. The three larger Petala .
b. b. b. The three smaller ones .
d. d. The three Stamina , or Chives .
e. e. e. The three Apices .
f. f. The Vasculum Seminale .
g. g. The Pedunculi .
h. h. The Stylus .
i. i. i. The three Capillamenta Tubiformia .
k. k. k. The jagged Extremity of the Capillamenta .
B. B. The Root .
C. C. The Grassy Leaves .

