IV .
'On a Magneto-electric Machine .
" By WILLIAM LAD , F.R.IM .
S. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received March 14,1867 .
In June 1864 I received from Mr. Wilde a small magneto-electric machine , consisting of a Siemens 's armature and six magnets .
This I endeavoured to improve upon , my object being to get a cheap machine for blasting with Abel 's fusees .
This was done by making one of circular magnets , and a Siemens 's armature revolving directly between the poles , the armature forming the circles ; with this I could send a very considerable power into an electro-magnet , &amp;c. It was then suggested to me by my assistant , that if the armature had two wires instead of one , the current from one being sent through a wire surrounding the magnets , their power would be augmented , and a considerable current might be obtained from the other wire available for external work ; or there might be two armatures , one to exalt the power of the magnets , and the other made available for blasting or other purposes .
Want of time prevented me carrying this out until now ; but since the interesting papers of C. W. Siemens , F.R.S. , and Professor Wheatstone , F.R.S. , were read last month , I have carried out the idea as follows:-Two bars of soft iron , measuring 712 in .
x 22 in .
x , in .
, are each wound , round the centre portions , with about thirty yards of No. 10 copper wire ; and shoes of soft iron are so attached at each end , that when the bars are placed one above the other there will be a space left between the opposite shoes in which a Siemens 's armature can rotate : on each of the armatures is wound about ten yards of No. 14 copper wire cottoncovered .
The current generated in one of the armatures is always in connexion with the electro-magnets ; and the current from the second armature , being perfectly free , can be used for any purpose for which it may be required .
The machine is altogether rudely constructed , and is only intended to illustrate the principle ; but with this small machine three inches of platinum wire '01 can be made incandescent .

