1872 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer on Spectrum-Analysis .
83 submitted to examination are added , with a Table specifying the sex , age , \amp ; c. of patients , weight and composition of the specimens , \amp ; c. A second Table shows an arrangement of the ascertained ingredients in a form which , if not complete , may yet be useful ; in it the rarer substances belonging to urinary calculi are not included .
Next follows a description of each well-known ingredient as it was observed to occur:\#151 ; Uric acid is here crystalline , but not in the shapes prevalent in urinary deposits ; free crystals ( 1 ) are comparatively rare , and open columns ( 2 ) , or else compact laminae ( 3 ) , are most frequent ; amidst these the very general occurrence of simple oxalate-of-lime forms is mentioned .
The Urates are present in calculi , as ( 1 ) granules , ( 2 ) acicular crystals , ( 3 ) globules , ( 4 ) laminae : the relation of the two latter forms is described , and the apparent character of their animal basis .
Oxalate of lime would seem to be the most prevalent of all ingredients , and it exists as ( 1 ) granules , if the particles were really shapeless , as they appeared to be ; ( 2 ) crystals\#151 ; octahedral ( often of enormous size ) , ovoid , and dumbbell shaped ; ( 3 ) spheroids , or large composite globular particles of very characteristic appearance , and originating from the last-named form ; ( 4 ) laminae , also characteristic .
Some remarks are added on crystals of the oxalate artificially produced .
Certain crystals , styled peculiar , are described ; they are frequently admixed with the urates , and , upon grounds specified in detail , are judged to be a form of the calcic oxalate .
Phosphate of lime : free crystals of this salt have not been seen in calculi ; and compact layers , authoritatively recognized , have varied in appearance either as the result of disintegration , or possibly in consequence of some difference in chemical composition\#151 ; a point amongst others needing further investigation .
Respecting the triple phosphate and the fusible calculus , details of their microscopic appearance are submitted in the communication under notice .
In conclusion , figures arranged in four Plates , with descriptions , are appended .
III .
" Researches in Spectrum-Analysis in connexion with the Spectrum of the Sun."\#151 ; No. I. By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received November 6 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The author , after referring to the researches in which he has been engaged since January 1869 in conjunction with Dr. Irankland , refers to the evidence obtained by them as to the thickening and thinning of spectral lines by variations of pressure , and to the disappearance of certain lines when the method employed by them since 1869 is used .
This method consists of throwing an image of the light-source to be examined on to the slit of the spectroscope .
84 Mr. J. N. Lockyer on Spectrum-Analysis .
[ Dec. 12 , It is pointed out that the phenomena observed are of the same nature as those already described by Stokes , W. A. Miller , Eobinson , and Thalen , but that the application of this method enables them to be better studied , the metallic spectra being clearly separated from that of the gaseous medium through which the spark passes .
Photographs of the spark , taken in air between zinc and cadmium and zinc and tin , accompany the paper , showing that when spectra of the vapours given off by electrodes are studied in this manner , the vapours close to the electrode give lines which disappear from the spectrum of the vapour at a greater distance from the electrode , so that there appear to be long and short lines in the spectrum .
The following elements have been mapped on this method:\#151 ; Ka , Li , Mg , Al , Mn , Co , Ni , Zn , Sr , Cd , Sn , Sb , Ba , and Pb , the lines being laid down from Thalen 's maps , and the various characters and lengths of the lines shown .
In some cases the spectra of the metals , enclosed in tubes and subjected to a continually decreasing pressure , have been observed .
In all these experiments the lines gradually disappear as the pressure is reduced , the shortest lines disappearing first , and the longest lines remaining longest visible .
Since it appeared that the purest and densest vapour alone gave the greatest number of lines , it became of interest to examine the spectra of compounds consisting of a metal combined with a non-metallic element .
Experiments with chlorides are recorded .
It was found in all cases that the difference between the spectrum of the chloride and the spectrum of the metal was that under the same spark-conditions all the short lines were obliterated .
Changing the spark-conditions , the final result was that only the very longest lines in the spectrum of the metallic vapour remained .
It was observed that in the case of elements with low atomic weights , combined with one equivalent of chlorine , the numbers of lines which remain in the chloride is large , 60 per cent. , e. g. , in the case of Li , and 40 per cent , in the case of Na ; while in the case of elements with greater atomic weights , combined with two equivalents of chlorine , a much smaller number of lines remain\#151 ; 8 per cent , in the case of barium , and 3 per cent , in the case of Pb .
The application of these observations to the solar spectrum , to elucidate which they were undertaken , is then given .
It is well known that all the known lines of the metallic elements on the solar atmosphere are not reversed .
Mr. Lockyer states what Kirch-hoff and Angstrom have written on this subject , and what substances , according to each , exist in the solar atmosphere .
He next announces the discovery that , with no exception whatever , the lines which are reversed are the longest lines .
AVith this additional key he does not hesitate to add , on the strength of a small number of lines reversed , zinc and aluminium ( and possibly strontium ) to the last list of solar elements given by Thalen , who 1872 .
] The Astronomer Royal 's Magnetical Observations .
85 rejected zinc from Kirchhoffs list , and agreed with him in rejecting aluminium .
It need scarcely be added that these lines are in each case the longest lines in the spectrum of the metal .
The help which these determinations afford to the study of the various cyclical changes in the solar spectra is then referred to .
December 19 , 1872 .
Sir GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , K.C.B. , President , followed by Mr. BUSK , Vice-President , and Dr. SIBSON , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " Magnetical Observations in the Britannia and Conway Tubular Iron Bridges .
" By Sir George Biddell Airy , K.C.B. , P.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received October 12 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The author states that he was first induced to make these experiments by consideration of the perpetual tremor to which the iron of these structures is subjected , and which appeared likely to have made them unusually sensitive to the production of induced and perhaps subpermanent magnetism .
The experiments were actually conducted by Mr. James Carpenter ( then Assistant at the Royal Observatory ) , with the friendly cooperation of Captain Tupman , R.M.A. Permission was given by the Directors of the London and North-Western Railway Company , and every possible assistance was given by the resident Officers of the Company , with a degree of zeal and liberality which cannot be too highly appreciated .
The observations were made in the axis of each tube , a large step-ladder and stage adapted to the circumstances having been provided ; the observations made were those of disturbed magnetic azimuth , disturbed time of vibration of a horizontal needle , and disturbed dip .
The places of observation were :\#151 ; in each line of the Britannia Bridge , a station on each of its five supporting towers and a station in the middle of each of the four sections of the continuous tube , and also stations in the prolongations of the axis of the bridge to a considerable distance in each direction , making in all twenty stations ; and in the Conway bridge , stations in each line at the piers and in the middle of the tube , and also distant stations in the prolongation of the axis of the bridge , making eight stations in all .
The means of the results at each station are given in a Table .
Por further treatment , the means of those means for collateral stations are used ; and the means of those for the two distant stations at each bridge are adopted as giving undisturbed local constants .
By treatment of

