An Account of some Stones said to have fallen on the Earth in France ; and of a Lump of native Iron , said to have fallen in India .
By the Right Hon. Charles Greville , F.R.S. Read January 27 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 200 .
] Mr. Greville , conceiving that the experiments and observations made by Mr. Howard on certain metalline substances said to have fallen on the earth , and the accurate descriptions which Count de Bournon has given of these substances , have established the fact that a number of stones , asserted to have fallen under similar circumstances , have precisely the same character , is here pleased to communicate to the Society three more instances of such singular productions of nature , which have of late been noticed in France .
The first is a specimen broken from a stone of about 15 inches diameter , preserved in the Museum of Bourdeaux , and which is said to have fallen near Roqueford , in the Lands , on the 20th of August , 1789 , during the explosion of a meteor .
It broke through the roof of a cottage , and killed a herdsman and some cattle .
The second is part of a stone preserved in the collection of Mons. St. Amand , which was one of the numbers that fell in the year 1790 , in three different parishes in Armagnac , some of which weighed no less than 25 pounds .
The fact of this shower of stones was at the time verified by the Mayor of Armile , and is published in the Journal des Sciences Utiles de Montpellier for that year .
For the third specimen Mr. Greville is indebted to the Marquis de Dree .
It is a fragment broken from a stone of 22 pounds weight , which fell near Villefranche , in Burgundy , the 12th of March , 1798 .
This , like the former ones , was accompanied by a meteor ; and all three have precisely the same character , texture , and appearance .
We are indebted to M/ r. Greville for a new evidence , and he says , the only one he has yet met with , that seems to ascertain the origin of native iron , which , from analysis , had been suspected to have a common origin with the stones fallen on the earth .
This he obtained from Colonel Kirkpatrick , and it consists of a translation from the Persian , made by the Colonel , of a passage in the Memoirs of the Emperor Jehangire , written by hims-elf .
The substance of this : extract is as follows : In the first year of this Emperor 's reign ( A. 1030 of the Hegira ) there arose one morning in a village , about 100 miles East of Lahore , such a itremendous noise as had near deprived the inhabitants of their sense of hearing .
During this noise , a luminous body was observed to fall from above on the earth , suggesting to the beholders the idea that the firmament was pouring fire .
In a short time the noise having subsided , and the inhabitants having recovered from their alarm , a messenger was dispatched by them to the Aumil , or fiscal superintendent of the district , to apprise him of the event .
This magistrate immediately repaired to the spot , and there perceived that the earth , to an extent of about ten or twelve yards in diameter , was burnt to such a degree that not a blade of grass nor the least trace of verdure remained ; nor had the heat , which had been communicated to it , ; as yet subsided .
The Aumil hereupon caused the aforesaid space of ground to be dug up .
The deeper they went the greater was the heat found to be .
At length a lump of iron made its appearance , the heat of which was so great that one might have supposed it to have been taken from a furnace .
After some time it became cold , when the Aumil conveyed it to his own habitation , from whence he dispatched it to court .
Here ( the Emperor says ) I had it weighed in my presence , and found its weight to fall little short of 80 ounces .
I committed it to a skilful artist , with orders to make it into a sabre , a knife , and a dagger ; but the workman soon reported to me that the substance would not bear the hammer , but shivered into pieces when struck .
Upon this I ordered it to be mixed with other iron .
Accordingly three parts of this iron of lightning , as we called it , were mixed with one part of common iron ; and from this mixture were made two sabres , one knife , and one dagger .
By the addition of the common iron , the new substance acquired a fine temper , the blades fabricated from it proving as elastic as the most perfect that can be made in our country .
I had them tried in my presence , and found that they cut admirably .
One of the sabres I called Katai , or the Cutter , and the other Busk-serisht , or the Lightning-natured .
In a tetrastich presented to the Emperor on this occasion , it is asserted that in his time fell raw iron from lightning .
Colonel Kirkpatrick certifies the genuineness of the manuscript , and the fidelity of the translation ; and Mr. Greville adds , that he considers this as an authentic fact , the Emperor Jehangire not being a prince on whom his courtiers would idly venture to impose , or to whom an Aumil of a district would have dared to produce a substance pretending it to be iron , which on trial should be found to differ from manufactured iron .

