II .
" On the Solar and Lunar Variations of Magnetic l)eclination at Bombay."-Part I , By CHARLES CHAMBERS , Esq. , Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory .
Communicated by B. STEWART , LL. D. Received June 30 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The hourly observations of magnetic declination at the Government Observatory , Bombay , have extended over a period of nearly a quarter of a century , but the present discussion is confined to the observations made in the seven years 1859 to 1865 .
After describing the instrument with which the observations were made and the method of ' reducing them , the writer exhibits , by means of Tables and curves , the following results:1st .
The agreement of the diurnal variation of the aggregate of easterly disturbances when different separating values are adopted .
2nd .
The same for the aggregate of westerly disturbances .
3rd .
The diurnal variation of the aggregate of easterly disturbances , exceeding 1'4 in amount , in the period of seven years .
4th .
The same for westerly disturbances .
5th .
The disturbance-diurnal variation , or the excess at each hour of the aggregate of easterly over the aggregate of westerly disturbances .
6th .
The aggregates of easterly , westerly , and easterly and westerly disturbances , and the numbers of disturbed observations in each month of the year .
7th .
The aggregates of easterly , westerly , and easterly and westerly disturbances , and the numbers of disturbed observations , in each of the years 1859 to 1865 , and in the period of seven years .
8th .
The solar-diurnal variation of declination in each month of the year , and for the whole year .
9th .
The excess of the diurnal variation of declination for each month over the mean diurnal variation for the year .
10th .
The mean diurnal variation of declination for the half-years April to September and October to March , in each of the years 1859 to 1865 .
11 th .
The semiannual inequality in the mean diurnal variation of declination .
12th .
the mean diurnal variation of declination for each of the years 1859 to 1865 .
13th .
The calculated values of the coefficients A. , B , A2 , B2 , A3 , and B3 in the equation h =A1 cos n +B1 sin +A2 cos 2n +B2sin2n+A3 , cos3n+B 3 sin 3n + &amp;c. . .
, which expresses the mean diurnal variation of declination for each month of the year , for the whole year , and for different half-years .
14th .
The same for the half-years April to September and October to March , in each of the years 1859 to 1863 .
15th .
The solar-diurnal inequality of declination , in the calculation of which all disturbances are included .
16th .
The variation from year to year in the range of the mean diurnal variation of declination 17th .
The secular change and semiannual inequality of absolute declination .
The diurnal variations of disturbance , both easterly and westerly , are found to be of definite and systematic character , and to be comparable with the same variations for other places ; the annual variation is not very regular , but the progression in the amounts of disturbance in different years accords well ( with exception as to the incomplete year 1861 ) with the known character of the decennial variation .
The mean diurnal variation of declination , as well as its semiannual inequality , is of the general character due to the latitude in which Bombay lies ; the progression from month to month in the annual variation of the diurnal variation is also distinctly marked in all months except July .
A semiannual inequality is shown to exist in the diurnal variation of declination whose times of opposition are the equinoxes .
It is found that this inequality not only exists , but has the same general character at five widely separated stations in the northern magnetic hemisphere , and also , with some modifications as to character , at two stations having south magnetic latitude .
Its special characteristics are : 1st .
That , as in the typical mean diurnal variation of declination , there is scarcely any change during the night hours , and that the main variation occurs during half the day , in this case between 18 hours and 6 hours , local astronomical time .
2nd .
That the range of variation differs from about half a minute to nearly a minute of arc .
3rd .
That the hour of noon is that about which the deviations due to this variation pass through zero , and on each side of which the inflexions of the representative curve are inversely , but , in respect to north latitude stations , symmetrically disposed .
4th .
The turning-points are 21 hours and 3 hours , the former being a maximum , and the latter a minimum for north latitude stations from January to June , and for south latitude stations from July to December ; and vice versa , for north latitude stations from July to December , and for south latitude stations from January to June .
The solar-diurnal inequality of declination , in the calculation of which all disturbances are included , differs at no hour of the day by more than 0'061 from the mean diurnal variation , which is calculated after the rejection of all observations disturbed to the extent of more than 1 ' 4 .
The range of the diurnal variation of declination in different years is shown to be subject to a periodical variation , whose times of maxima and minima approach nearly to those of the maxima and minima of the decennial period in the amount of yearly disturbance .
The secular change of absolute declination is found for the years 1859 to 1865 to be an annual increase of easterly declination of 3"017 ; the semiannual inequality to be an excess of 0'"227 of easterly declination in the months October to March over its value in the months April to September .

