232 Prof. T. H. Huxley .
On [ Mar. 31 ; produces any effect , serum containing plenty of paraglobulin and ferment but only traces of the new substance .
But the injection of a solution of this body prevents the coagulation of the shed blood .
Occasionally as the result of the injection very small thrombi are formed ; possibly if more could be obtained con .
siderable intravascular clotting might be set up .
The following is an example .
A quantity of the new substance obtained from 300 c.c sheep 's serum and well washed was dissolved in dilute alkali and salt solution .
( The amount of substance was I estimate 02 gram ) This solution was injected into the jugular vein of a rabbit .
The blood of this rabbit previous to the injection clotted in two minutes ; after the injection the blood drawn off remained quite fluid for three hours\#151 ; time of observation .
It clotted , however , directly on adding some of the solution injected .
The injection of considerable quantities of serum or of paraglobulin I have not found to have any appreciable effect . .
[ tself tlns substance , since it exists in so small amount , is of little interest , but as it appears to vary in quantity in different animals and under different circumstances , it is easy to see that misapprehensions as to the influence of paraglobulin on coagulation might easily arise .
These observations also throw great doubt on the power of fibrin ferment to produce a so-called intoxication .
This substance has an extremely feeble influence on dilute MgS04 plasma , and hence contains but a trace of fibrin ferment .
Since it is closely related to the fibrin-yielding matters of the plasma , and to the tissue fibrinogens I have elsewhere described , I should propose to call it serum fibrinogen .
V. " Preliminary Note on the Fossil Remains of a Ohelonian Reptile , Ceratochelys sthenurus , from Lord Howe 's Island , ' Australia .
" By Thomas H. Huxley , F.R.8 .
Received March 24 , 1887 , , interesting remains of which I propose to give a brief notice in the present communication , are contained in a friable sandstone ( apparently formed of concreted blown sand ) , and they have a very recent appearance .
The age of the deposit in which they are found is unknown , but it is probably quaternary .
The specimens have been for some years in the palaeontological collection of the British Museum ; and , for the most part , they have not yet been submitted to careful examination* But I learn that the greater number of them PB7.J Ceratochelys sthenurus .
were long since rightly determined to be Chelonian by Mr. Davis , and set aside as such .
Several of the most important of these numerous and , m general , very fragmentary bones were originally found imbedded close together jn same block of sandstone .
They consist of a great part L a pelvis , a caudal vertebra , and an imperfect skull .
Of the pelvis , a right ischium and a pubis are imbedded in the rock , while " an imperfect right ilium , which fits well on to the ischium , is separate ; all these bones are unmistakably Chelonian .
The caudal vertebra has remarkable peculiarities .
It resembles an ordinary Chelonian caudal vertebra from the anterior half of the tail , in its \ general characters ; but it is strongly opisthoccelous , the centrum having a deep cup behind and a correspondingly curved articular head in front .
From the posterior part of the ventral face , two stout processes diverge , and present terminal rounded facets for the rami of the large chevron bone which must have articulated with them , Asa general rule , the caudal vertebrae of Chelonia are procoelous but Chelydra and Gypochelys ( perhaps also Staurotypus and Platystemum ) form well known exceptions , * in so far as the vertebrae behind the 3rd Or 4th are strongly opisthoccelous .
In fact , the vertebra in question closely resembles the 6th or 7th of Ghelydva or of Gypochelys ( see figs. 1 and 2 ) .
In the first , however , the transverse processes are - Caudal vertebra of Ceratochelys .
N , platform on the neural arch ; pz , pre-zygapophysis mutilated ; tr , broken transverse process ; processes for the chevron bone ; Chv , chevron bone .
* The opisthoccelous character of most of the caudal vertebrae of was first pointed out by Yon Meyer in his description of the ( Eningen Chelydriei Baur ( " Osteologische Notizenj " ' Zaol .
Anzeiger , ' No. 238 , 1886 ) has gone fully into the Fig. 1 .
N i Prof. T. H. Huxley .
On [ Mar. 31 , Fig. 2 .
JV Caudal vertebra of Chelydra .
Letters as in fig. 1 .
very much stronger and the pentagonal platform into which the upper surface of the neural arch expands , in place of a neural spine , is as long as the vertebra instead of being only about half as long .
The stout pre-zygapophysis of the right side is broken off , leaving only the base visible in the fossil .
Two other caudal vertebrae , having the same structural features , occur among the detached remains ; and belong , like the first , to the second fourth of the tail .
Another tolerably complete vertebra , with a considerably longer centrum , corresponds very closely with a caudal vertebra of Gypochelys from the third fourth of the tail .
In this , as in one of the foregoing vertebrae , the chevron bones are ankylosed with the centrum .
I conceive , then , that there can be no doubt that the pelvic bones and these caudal vertebrae belonged to a Chelydroid Ghelonian , of about the size of the largest u Snapping turtles " which are met with in North America at the present day .
question , and has pointed out the exceptional nature of their structure among the Chelonia .
Since the above paragraph was written , Dr. Gunther has kindly enabled me to examine a spirit specimen and a skeleton of Platysternum .
The caudal vertebrae resemble those of Chelydra , except that the last nine are procoelous , while that between these and the more anterior opisthocoelous vertebrae is nearly flat at the ends .
In this , as in other respects , Platysternum presents characters intermediate between Chelydra and the ordinary Emydce .
Professor Cope ( ' Vertebrata of the Tertiary Formations of the West/ 1883 , p. Ill ) ascribes opisthocoelous caudal vertebrae to the Baenidce , but no figures or descriptions of such vertebrae are given .
Of the opisthocoelous Chelonian vertebrae figured in Plate XXIV of the ' Report of Extinct Vertebrata obtained in New Mexico * ( 1877 ) it is expressly stated that their " correct reference cannot now be made M ( p. 43 ) .
Ceratochelys Prima facie , the skull found in the same block might also be expected .o be that of a Chelydroid ; and , in fact , it is so .
I do not base this nterpretation on the Chelonian character of the upper jaw , as there tree various extinct Saurian reptiles which closely approximate Jhelonia in this part of their structure .
The diagnostic characters ie in the back part of the skull ; and especially in the auditory region , which is altogether Chelonian .
Not only so , but when this fragmentary skull is compared with that of Chelydr the correspondence between the two is singularly exact ( figs. 3 and 4 ) .
In two respects , however , the fossil differs from Chelydra and Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Skulls of Ceratochelys ( fig. 3 ) and Chelydra ( fig. 4 ) ; the latter of the natura size , the former much reduced .
The portion of the skull of Chelydra which corresponds with the fossil is shaded .
1 .
The roof over the temporal fossa formed by the parietal , postfrontal , and other bones , which leaves the auditory region uncovered in the recent genera , * extends back , beyond the occiput , in the fossil , and sends down a broad vertical rim from its margin .
* The * roof ' extends much further back in Platysternum .
236 Prof. T. H. Huxley .
[ My \ 31*1 2 .
The upper surface of the cranial shield is , at most , rugose iu the recent Chelydridce ; in the fossil , three strong conical processes like horn-cores , of which the middle is the longest , are developed from its posterior and lateral region , * , This skull is described and figured in ' the ' Philosophical Tran actions ' for 1886 ( Plate 30 , fig. 1 ) by Sir R. Owen , under the generic or subgeneric name of Meiolania , and is said to belong to ft Saurian reptile closely allied to the " prisca " described in earlier communications .
But the skull is assuredly that of the Chelydroid Chelonian to which the pelvis and caudal Vertebra belong ) What Megalania prisca may be I do not pretend to say ; but the remains which I have described can have nothing to do with any Saurian reptiles ; and I propose to confer on the genus of Chelonia to which they belong the name of Ceratochelys .
The singular osseous caudal sheaths described by Sir R. Owen , in the same memoir , also appertain to .
They formed part of the series of remains sent to the British Museum along with the foregoing , in which none but Chelonian bones have yet been discovered ; and the remains of vertebrae left in these sheaths are similar to the caudal vertebrae of the terminal fourth of the tail in the Chelydridce .
The Snapping turtles are noted for the length and strength of the tail and for the strong , laterally compressed , acuminated " scales " which form a crest along the median dorsal line , while others , less strongly keeled , lie at the sides of the tail .
In many Chelonia , the extremity of the tail is enveloped in a continuous sheath .
These and other scale-like structures in the Chelonia , are usually spoken of as if they were entirely epidermal .
But , a day or two ago , Dr. Gunther informed me that in the Australian Tortoise .
Manouria , the great imbricated scales of the limbs contain bony scutes ; and that similar scutes are to be found in Testudo groeca .
This of course , \#174 ; aSo\#174 ; st6d examination of the caudal scales of Chelydra and Gypochelys .
and , having been enabled by Dr. Gunther 's kindness to examine the caudal scales of a good sized specimen of the latter , I have found that those of the crest contain bony scutes.f The bony scute corresponds very closely in form with the whole " scale , " but the recurved apex of the latter is formed only by epidermal substance ( figs. 5 and 6 ) .
The living Chelydra , therefore , has a caudal armature which , in * It is possible that these may be dermal bones coherent with the proper cranial shield .
f The fact is noted by Riitimeyer ( Lang and Rutimeyer , " Die Fossilen SchildkrOten von Solothurn , " ' Denkschriften der Allg .
Schweiz .
G-esellschaft , * vol. 22 ) , The armature of the tail in Platys is for the most part arranged in zones , of four plates in each zone j but I have not yet been able to find any bone in them , . . .
.887 .
] Ceratochelys sthenurus .
Fig. 5 , MS .
Sectional views of a scute of the tail-armour of ( fig. 5 ) , and of one of the crest plates of Gypochelys , both of the natural size .
principle , is similar to that of Cerato but the osseous elements are relatively atrophied .
There is exactly the same relation between the armour of species of living Crocodiles and on the one hand , and those of Jacare and Caiman and the extinct Teleosauria , on the other .
In the former , the epidermal scales remain well developed on the ventral side of the body , while the corresponding osseous scutes , fully developed in Jacare , Caiman , and , have vanished .
Among the detached fragments to which I have referred , there are remains of ribs , with their costal plates ; marginal and other plates of the carapace ; parts of the plastron ; part of a scapula ; sundry limb bones ; and several of the cranial processes called " horn-cores .
" They all agree , so far as they can be compared , with the determination already arrived at ; which , to sum it up in a few words , is that the remains of crania and caudal sheaths from Australia , hitherto referred to Saurian reptiles , under the names of and appertain to a hitherto unknown species of Chelonian , Ceratochelys sthenurus , closely allied to the living Chelydra , Gypochelys , and sternum .
The evidence of this fact offered in the present note appears to me to be conclusive , but it may be desirable hereafter to figure the parts mentioned and to describe them at length .
The interest which attaches to the discovery of this singular Chelonian arises partly from the fact , that the group of Chelonia to which it belongs is wholly unrepresented in the fauna of Australia , as at present known .
Platy sternum is usually said to be found in China .
Pr .
Gunther , however , informs me that Upper Burmah is its proper 238 Drs. T. L. Brunton and J. T. Cash .
Action of [ Mar. 31 habitat ; otherwise , North America , east of the Rocky Mountains i\#187 ; the nearest region in which the are to be found Bat Ghelydridce , and , indeed , species of the genus occur in Upper Miocene ( CEningen ) and in Eocene formations in Europe Moreover , Platychelys , of the Upper Jurassic series of Bavaria and Switzerland is regarded by Rutimeyer as an early form of the group Lord Howe 's Island is about 200 miles from the nearest Australian mainland , and something like 400 miles , as the crow flies from the Darling Downs , in which the caudal armour , which has been ascribed to Megalama , was found .
The discovery of Geratochelys , therefore has an interesting bearing on the question of the former extension of Australia to the eastward , on the one hand ; and of the possible derivation of such forms as Geratochelys from Asia , on the other hand .
An elevation of the sea bottom of 6000 feet would place Norfolk Island and Lord Howe 's Island on a peninsula extending from the region of the present Barrier Reef to New Zealand ; and the I lor\#174 ; and Faun\#174 ; of those islands are known to have special affinities with those of New Zealand and none with those of Australia Speculations respecting the origin of the Chelonian carapace , are suggested by the discovery of osseous scutes in the vertebral region of the tail , and their coalescence in Geratochelys to form a sort of caudal carapace , ridged in a manner resembling that of Ghelydra and Platychelys .
But the consideration of these points would take me beyond the limits of the present note .
VI .
Action of Caffein and Theine upon Voluntary Muscle .
" T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and J. Theodore Cash , M.D. Received March 24 , 1887 .
From a number of experiments we have found that caffein and theine both cause rigor in the voluntary muscles of frogs .
All these experiments were made on Bana t and none on Bana escu-lenta .
The action is , however , very variable , the rigor being sometimes exceedingly well marked , and at other times not observable .
The alteration does not depend on the dose of the alkaloid .
When the gastrocnemii of the same frog were treated with solutions of caffein or theine of different strengths , the stronger solution had the most powerful action ; but when different frogs were used , a large dose sometimes had little action on one frog , while a small dose had a powerful action on another .
Theine seems to be rather more powerful than caffein , but the quantitative difference between them is slight .
There is , however , a marked qualitative difference between them , inasmuch as theine tends to produce rhythmical contractions in the muscle .
Complete curarisation quickens the occurrence of rigor .
A

