]\gt ; On the of , a Fluid By F. B. PIDDLCK , , Fellow of , Oxford .
( Communicated by Prof. .
F. H. Love , Fcbruary 10 , 1910 .
) CONTENTS .
1 .
Introduction .
Solution of the -1oissou blcm f Finit Depth : } 3 .
Convergence of the 3 t9 4 .
Various ) 5 .
The Synthesis of ) .
Apparent neity of the ) 1 .
In a recent paper*Lord has attention to tlJc f oi instantaneous propagation of a linlited distnrl)ance ovel the incompressible .
This instantaneity occurs in spite of the the velocity of simple-harmonic ave is finite , depth finite and constant .
As the ised are of sonlG not completely settled in the ) , some the phenomenon nlayllot be Huons .
2 .
of the In his treatment of this used the of solution .
There are , difficulties aised in this on of lack of convergence at .
I proceed to obtitill solntio1l in form of a series .
in type to the of blenl for infinite depth .
We have where Write ) * Lord , ' Phil. ] , vol. 18 , 1909 , p. 1 .
The notice by Prof. Love , to whom I also indebted .
much helpful of the present paper before ( otnm/ lni tion .
The notation used that of } ) , 364\mdash ; 374 , where theory for deep vater is contained .
The of ) reversed .
Mr. F. B. Pidduck .
of the sine in powers of , we have ( jikx The rals assume a more convenient form by writing and making the substitution .
Thus , if we write we have Further , Let denote the coefficient of in the expansion of in ascending powers of .
Then Now if the real pal't of is positive , Hence , if we write , , ( 4 ) we have ( 5 ) It is convenient to introduce the quantity , which is the oefficienl of in the expansion of .
The quantities and are positive .
It is easily proved that ( 6 ) 1910 .
] Disturbance in a smder By consideration of the explicit expressions quautities it is not difficult to derive the inequalities ' which will be useful in what follows .
3 .
the We have to prove that the series ( 5 ) , and to find upper limit for , the series without of order , we write .
( 8 ) bstitute for its .
Then , fnrther transformations , we Let us write Then .
Consider the and ries separately .
The real part of i , s and greater than , so that CombiIlin ) , The series therefore absolutely and uniformly , .
( 9 ) Further , VOL. LXXXIII.\mdash ; A. ) Again , Since , while and are less than 2 , we have ' Making use of ( 13 ) and of the inequality we have Thus The moduli of and each exceed .
Hence , using ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) , we find that Cut out the origin by a definite small semicircle , and consider the domain Then the inequality shows that within the domain we can choose finite numbers and , independent of , to secure that ! .
( 12 ) The uniformity of the vergence of the and derivates of is proved in the same way , and the derived quantities satisfy inequalities of the form ( 12 ) .
1910 .
] Disturbance in a Fluid Returning to the equation ( 3 ) , we see that the ?
series for converges absolutely and uniformly in the domain if the series converges , being a positive constant .
This is clearly the case .
It is easily seen that we can use term-by-term differentiation with respect Go , and everywhere in the domain , even when , and we are in a position to verify the solution rigidly .
4 .
Verifications .
the solution given by ( 3 ) in conjunction with either ( 5 ) or ( 8 ) , it is easy to verify that the , conditions are satisfied in the domain , these being the conditions of the problem:\mdash ; ( i ) ( ii ) when ( iii ) when ( iv ) when ( v ) for The equation ( 8 ) may be written Let us write ( 14 ) Then if is the real part of , we have The explicit expression of follows by .
that When is large we have .
F. B. Pidduck .
) of a and the expression for passes over into the well-known result*for deep water .
It is also easy to derive Lord expression for the first term in the face elevation .
The coefficient of ' in is .
Thus , if denotes the real part of , the coefficient of in the surface elevation is From ( 8 ) we have Hence ifferentiating the well-known result with respect to , and putting , we see thaG The first telm in is , therefore , ' in agreement with Lord Rayleigh 's result .
The next term is 5 .
of Leaving aside for the moment the question of the cause of the instantaneity of the propagation , let us consider the apparent discrepancy between this fact and the velocities of simple harmonic waves .
Taking a one-dimensional problem in a dispersive medium , let it be required to determine a quantity at place and time .
For the sake of , take as symmetrical about and stationary for , and let a particular solution of the differential equation of the problem be .
Here and are connected by an arbitrary functional relation .
Corresponding to the initial value of we generalise this solution into * Lamb , 'Hydrodynamics , ' p. 365 .
1910 .
] Disturbance rarity .
where : By proper nent of we can make .
) vanish when certain value .
It is not , however , obvious that will in eneral vanish for the larger values of , if emains finite .
Thns , in the absence of such proof we may conclude that the finiteness of the simple harmonic velocity is not a sufficient ) for finite ) tion with il lvave-front .
For non-dispersive lnedia , which , a constant , it is easily seen that ( there is a velocity The presence tbsence of a -front can also be ated in more general cases .
Let start with a limited disturbance , which itself possesses some of continnity .
Then , if the ation is liuite , there be at any uent time an un( portion of the llediu]n and a field .
the there should , therefore , be some rree of discontinuity as the solutions of wave problelns to arbitrary initial conditions occur naturally in the form of nite rals .
The test of a wave-front is , therefore , non-nnif.orInity of the convergence of the is vise o if we reflect that discontinuity effect of components at the point in question , of the of the to large valnes of In this can finld out 10 extent ularities of the initial state are ated in an advtincing wave , in many cases in which an exact solution is unobtainable .
In ( this method to the propagation in heayy essible fluid , with certain difficulties connected the ence of rals at the surface .
1Ve can , however , obtain rigorous results using a nou-concentrated symmetrical initial elevation of triangular form , ) viven 1 ' if if It is foumd that outside the the is contin'uous for all values of and , as well as its time derivates up to .
If we had taken and iitted the solution to the sitne initial conditions , we should , of course , have found discontinuity of at the A very similar case occurs when h is small .
If simultaneously take large in such way as finite , th " " emainder \ldquo ; of the integral becomes important near the same points .
As nnot be regarded as indefinitely small , it is , however , clear that the ation of discontinuity can nevcr actually be attained .
The continuity of the eneral waves .
The above remarks must not be taken to imply that instantaneity of propagation is a property of such dispersive media as occur in nature .
Where it is indicated by the analysis it is probably to be traced to some imperfection in the ysical assumptions upon which the analysis is based .
6 .
Apparent of the Propagation .
It is easy to extend the ordinary methods to treat the problem of the propagation of disturbances over incompressible fluid covering an attracting spherical core .
The solution has the same features of continuity already encountered , and thus the instantaneity is not connected in any way with neglect of the curyature of the bed on which the fluid lies .
The instantaneity can therefore only be ascribed to the fact that fluid is taken as imcompressible , as surmised by Lord ayleigh ( loc. cit. , p. 5 ) .
In order to see the precise way in which this assumption enters it will necessary to investigate the propagation of disturbances in a heavy compressible fluid .
Taking the pressure as a metion of the density , } have The equation of continuity is the sake of illustration , assmne the law constant Then for small motion we have ' ( 17 ) and where 2 is the value of in the state of rest , .
( 18 ) Getting rid of , we have for the diflerential equation for .
19 The boundary conditions and the expression for the surface elevation are 1910 .
] Disturbance in Fluid under .
355 the same as usual .
Consider the case of finite depth , and try a solution , where depends on only .
Then from ( 19 ) and being the roots of the equation The solution takes different forms , according as is positive or negative .
If it is positive , put it equal to .
Then and .
The boundary conditions give ( say ) , and Eliminating A and , we find that the relationship of , and is given by the equations and .
( 21 ) By proper adjustment of we find , further , that , ( 22 ) corresponding to The position of the admissible roots for a given is seen most easily by drawing the curves .
The quantity may be taken as positive without loss of generality .
It is seen that if , there is certainly one root corresponding to , while if there are at least two roots .
When is ative , put it equal to .
We get a second set of solutions , which are formally obtained by writing .
For a is given by the equation .
( 23 ) It , is easily seen that the roots are infinite in mber .
In order to see what kinds of waves are formed in this way , let us take large .
It is found that one root approximates to , so that approximates to .
With this mode , the prop gation of surface-discontinuity follows the same course as with incompressible fluids .
The remaining root and all the roots approximate to quantities independent of ; and tends to .
The discontinuities are propagated as by waves of expansion .
More definite information is obtained by taking finite and large , that is by investigating the simple waves on deep compressible fluid .
It is easily 356 Propagation of a Disturbance in a Fluid under Gravity .
proved that one root approximates to for , provided .
We have as before , and corresponding to we have That is , if there a " " standing\ldquo ; solution of exactly the same kind as for an incompressible fluid .
This solution is easily verified directly .
We know that it satisfies , and it is easily seen that The equation ( 19 ) therefore holds .
Further , it may be shown easily that the normal Cauchy-Poisson solution , in which , satisfies the equation ( 19 ) .
It also satisfies the initial con ditions of zero initial velocity and zero initial elevation everywhere except at the origin of .
But it is not the solution of the problem of a concentrated initial disturbance in a compressible fluid , because it implies an initial condensation determined by the formula The corresponding initial pressure is given by the equation const.const .
In like manner , the formula ( 24 ) implies , in the case of an incompressible fluid , an unequilibrated initial distribution of pressure according to the formula const .
so that the fluid is represented as starting to move at once with finite acceleration .
The solution corresponding to ( 24 ) in the case of initial impulse , viz. :\mdash ; similarly implies an initial impulsive pressure everywhere , as might be expected in an incompressible fluid .
The solution ( 24 ) is obtained by generalising one that corresponds to a single root of equation ( 21 ) .
It has been seen to be incomplete in the case of any actual ( compressible ) fluid .
In any such case the complete solution must be sought by taking account of the modes of motion which respond to the remaining root or roots of equation ( 21 ) and the roots of equation ( 23 ) ; and these modes are capable of transmitting pressural effects with the velocity of sound in the medium .
Lamb , 'Hydrodynamics , ' p. 369 .

