An Account of two Books .
1 .
MISCELLANCEA Curiosa MEDICO PHYSICA Academiae Naturae Curiosorum .
Lipsiae 1670 .
in 4 .
THis is a work very lately begun in Germany by a Company of ingenious Philosophers , called Academia Nature Curiosorum ( an Academy of Curious Inquirers into Nature , ) which some years ago have established themselves in that Country , with a designe-chiefly to improve Physic and Natural Philosophy .
For which purpose , they have , ( as I find in their Salve Academicum , printed at Leipsick , An 1662.)undertaken each of them , to consider and write upon determinate subjects , thereby to penetrate into the nature and qualities of Particular Bodies ( Generals having too long already busied Mens Brains and Hands ; ) as of the Vine , Tobacco , Aloe , Scurvy grass , Wormwood , Scorzonera , St. Johns Worth ; Iron , Brass ; the Unicorn , the Stagg , Crabs ; the Bloud-stone , Eagle-stone ; Musc , Civet , Amber , &amp;c. Besides which , they have attempted , ( after the way , taken up in France , Italy , and England , ) to write and publish Ephemerides , or a Diurnal , or Transactions of a Philosophical Nature , intending therein to present the Curious yearly with such Medical , Anatomical , Botanical , Pathological , Chirugical , Therapeutical , and Chemical Observations , as they shall by their correspondence either with the Physicians and Philosophers of their own Body and Nation , or with those of other Societies and Countries , procure and digest .
And of this they give a Specimen in the Book , of which an Account is now to be given , out of that Exemplar , which was sent from that Generous Body by the hands of the Learned Dr. Sacks , ( a Member of the same ) to the Publisher .
In it are contained 160 Observations , and 19 Tables of Figures ; being the Sum of what they have collected for the first Year , which is 1670 .
Of them we shall English , for a taste of the Curious here , what follows ; observing the promiscuous way of recital , which is in the Book it self .
Among others then ( till more Copies of the Book come over , ) we take notice of : 1.A Relation of Snakes kept tame in an House , going into their boxes every night , and seen to cast their skin , and ( one of them ) to lay 13.Eggs in the space of an hour and a half , facilitated by him that kept them ; who also dissected one of them , and communicated the remarkable things in that Operation .
2.An History to evince , that part of the Chyle is by the Ductus Thoracicus conveyed into the Subclavials , and so into the Cistern of the Breasts , whence by certain Pipes it is carried into Glanduls or Kernels , there to be elaborated , either for the aliment of the breasts themselves , or the food of Faetus 's .
3 .
An Observation of a Polygonum Cocciferum , or a Grain bearing Knot-grass in Poland , whose Grains being exposed to the Sun , are turned into live Worms , which when dried and so moistned , and pulverised , tinge with a Crimson colour .
4A Description of an Anti-pleuritick Medicine , ( much used and commended by Petrus a Castro , formerly chief Physician to the Duke of Mantua ) made of the Rindes of the longer sort of Italian Pumpions , boiled in very old Oil of Olives , and strained through a sleeve .
5 .
A Description of a Remedy for an Atrophy of the Eye , lighted upon by chance , when the Eye of an Uro-gallus ( or Cock of the Wood ) being dissected , the Aqueous humour , by a deep incision thereof , did spirt into the Eye of the Operator , who thereupon found the pains of his Eye , which was much dried , and did smart by over-much lucubrations , assuaged , and his sight improved ; and afterwards upon occasion did advise to instil the like juice of such and other Cocks into the Eyes of a young man , who by his debauches had purchased a kind of Consumption in his Eyes .
6 .
A Narration of a Serpent petrified in the stomach of a Stag ; kept in the Repository of the Count of Hanow , approaching to the colour of a Bezoar-stone , and weighing about 23 ounces .
As also of the Brains of divers Oxen turned into stones .
7 .
An Account of an Horny substance grown out , near the two last short Ribbs , to a considerable length , resembling the Horn of a young Deer .
Whence occasion is taken to relate many odd Observations of Horns grown in all sorts of Animals , Birds , Fishes , Four footed Beasts , and even in some Men .
8 .
A way of making a Person born Deaf to hear , by speaking to him over the Coronalsuture , well shaved and washed , after certain Purgations made of the Brain , specified in the Book .
9 .
Of an Egg naturally bred in an Egg ; of Stones naturally found included in Stones ; and Animals in Animals , and Fruit in Fruit .
10 .
Of a Child born Hydropical ; and of a Faetus febricitant whilst in the womb , as was judged by certain red and livid marks appeairag on it when it came forth .
11 .
Of a Child , one year old , so diseased with the Hydrocephalus , that when opened , there were taken out of his Head 36 ounces of clear but saltish , water ; whereupon the Brain was by the attentive beholders seen so flatted and extended , as to stick close to the convex sides of the whole skull , like some thick membrane : There being also found a considerable quantity of the like liquor within the Chest of this Infant .
12 .
Of Worms let out by Venae-section , and Urine .
13 .
Of the Periodical Head-ach , recurring daily at a certain hour in the morning , and lasting until noon ; and seizing only the external part of the face over the right Eye ; remedied by letting of blood , and compressing the part .
14 .
An Observation of the plenteous growth of Vincetoxicum or Swallow-wort in the Counties of Stiria and Carinthia , most inhabitants of which are troubled with the Scrofulae or Kings Evil , curable with the root of that Plant , having in it very Volatil , piercing , and discussing Spirits ; upon which account , the Author esteems it also very powerful against Dropfres .
15 .
Of a Faetus tinged yellow by Saffron in the Uterus , related by Amatus Lusitanus , and verified here by an Experiment made upon a Bitch big with Puppy 's ; though the Chyle in the Lacteous Vessels was whitish .
16 .
Of several Stones come away together with the Blood of a man of 72 years of Age , being blouded in the Arm .
17 .
Of a sort of Crafishes , which taste bitter when boiled ; taken in a small River called Obra , in the Confines of Silesia and Polonia , there growing on the Bank of that River great store of wild Calamus Aromaticus , on the Roots of which these Crafishes have been observed to feed greedily .
18 .
Of a Flame broken out of several stomacks , and burning like Spirit of Wine , both in dead Animals , and living Men .
19 .
A way of Dwarfing men , by anointing their Back-bones , in their very infancy , with the grease of Moles , Bats , and Dormice ; together with an Intimation of the Art , used at Bononia to dwarf their Dogs , by often washing ( from the first day they are pupp 'd ) their feet and back-bone ; thereby drying and hardning those parts , and so hindring their extension .
20 .
An Abscesse in the Abdomen well cured at Vienna by an incision made about 4 inches under the ribbs , upon which followed loud a plentiful eruption of purulent matter , which continued to run for many weeks .
21 .
Ofmany odd Examples , not of women only , but men also , greedy to eat very strange things ; especially of a Boy , that , without any visible prejudice to his health , did eat Sand , Chalk , Brick , Snuffs of Candles , Dirt , &amp;c. though his Mother had not been observed to eat any such thing , when she bred him .
To whom may be joined the several devourers of Glass , Stones , and Nails , innoxiously voided again by siege .
22 .
Of making Chylous Wine , without any disease in the Kidneys or Bladder , in an Atrophy of the whole Body , there wanting no passages , by which the Chyle may come into the Emulgent and Urinary Vessels .
23 .
Of an American Aloe , planted in Silesia , and remaining steril for 31 years , but after that time shooting out very many branches , and flowers : its chief stem 18 foot high , bearing 21 branches , ~ some had above 200 flowers , which together with the main stem withered away .
And of such an other , in Misnia , which in a few days grew up to the height of 12 inches , growing every natural day a whole palm , and shooting out 32 branches , in an admirably regular order distant from one another , and in their extremities each producing store of flowers variously coloured .
24 .
Of two rare Symptoms~about the Sight .
One of a person , that tuning the strings of a Musical instrument , one of them snapping asunder , hit his right eye with a smart stroke ; after which , some proper cooling Ophthalmicks having been applied , the Patient after Midnight awaking , saw all things , in the dark , as clear as if it had been full day , being able to discern the smallest lines of pictures , and to read printed papers : Whereas when a Candle was brought to him , or in the Sunshine , he could see nothing at all .
The other is , of a man infected with the Lues Venerea , who , after that the other symptoms were abated , found his sight so distemper 'd , that all Objects appeared to him double ; which yet at length ceased .
25 .
An Observation of a Museus Terrestris ( Ground-Moss ) which being gathered in August and September , and reduced to to powder , ~ , when held or blown into a flame ; the same is said by Olearius , in his Moscovy and Persian Voyage , to be used by those people in their Artificial Fires ; who adds , that Powder of Rosin doth the like .
26 .
Of a Noble-man in Silesia , who was so strong , that with his hands alone he could break a Horse shoe , and a Ryxdollar ; and hold , at one and the same time , three Men , two under his Arms , and one by his Teeth fastned in his cloaths : who once also , when he hunted the Wild Boar one of those Beasts of a good bigness rushing upon him , took him with one hand by the hair under the Snout , and with the other hand ran him through with his Sword .
This same person could at one dinner drink off a whole German Ohm full of Wine .
27 .
Of a Bezoar stone encompassing a Dart , found in the Emperors Repository , and esteemed to have been taken out of a Bezoar breeding Goat , which being shot in some fleshy part with an arrow , the Salin-Tartareous particles , swimming in the Blood of that Animal , and wont to breed Bezoardick stones in it , were by the continual motion of the Blood carried to that part , where they gathered and stuck about the Arrow .
28 .
Of Eels being Viviparous , one of these Academicians affirming , that himself had in Holland taken several of them out of an Eels womb , wrapped up in several membrans .
29 .
Of an Hermaphrodite-Stockfish , having both Melt and Row ; as also of two Crocodils , of both Sexes .
30 .
Of a strange Antipathy to Music in a man , that as soon as he heard an Harp touched , could not hold his water , &amp;c. 31 .
Of Light inbred in the Insect , called Scolopender , shining in the dark , and sparkling when compressed .
32 .
Several Observations concerning the Milk diet against the Gout , together with a debate upon that subject ; and the manner of using the said Diet .
33 .
Of Mercury crowded into the Crural Vein of a Dog , to the quantity of half an Ounce , without any hurt appearing in the Animal .
34 .
Of a Jaspar-stone , worm eaten .
We leave here unmentioned many other curious Observations , related in this Work , partly for want of room , partly because of the unfitness of many of them to be exposed to the view of all sorts of Readers .
II .
PHYSICA , in Decem TRACTATUS DISTRIBUTA , Auth. Honorato Fabri , S. J. Lugduni Galliarum , 1669 , in 4~ .
Of this vast work , the Author published An.1666 .
at Paris .
two Treatises ; the first , De Plantis &amp; Generatione Animalium ; the latter , De Homine ; by a kind of Retrograde method , opposing the Order of Publishing to that of Composing : For , whereas in the Composition , he proceeded from the simpler things to the Complexed ; in the Publication and Communication , he thought sit to produce the Whole of all Nature , that elaborate piece , Man ; in whom , besides the Sensitive and Vegetable Faculties , and the powers of Mixts , and the Elements , common to all Bodies , there shines out a supereminent Principle , the Rational Soul .
In the Book , which bears the above-mentioned Title , the Author gives in the Preface an Account of the Method , used by him in this whole Work , and of his Performance in this very Volume .
Concerning his Method , he saith , That he hath comprehended the whole Physicks , or all Natural Philosophy in Ten Treatises , in a Geometrical method , ( which how he performs , we leave to strict Mathematicians to judge ; ) beginning from those things that first incur into our senses , viz. In the Four first Treatises , he handles of The sensible States of Bodies , as the Corporeal Quantum ; Of Bodies Tense and Compressed , Rare &amp; Dense , Heavy and Light , where of the Motion of Bodies , Natural , Violent , and Mixed ; Opack &amp; Diaphanous , Wet and Dry , Hard and Soft ; Tough and Dry ; Flexible and Stiff ; Fissil and Brittle ; Friable and Ductil ; Liquid and Liquable ; Inflammable ; Exhalable ; Spirable ; Of Heat , and Cold ; of Light , Colours , Sounds , Odors and Tasts ; and of the Resistance of Bodies .
In the Fifth , he treats of the Principles of Bodies Natural , of their Generation and Corruption , and the Four Elements .
In the Sixth and Seventh , of Mixtion and mixed Bodies , Imperfect and Perfect .
In the Eighth of Celestial Bodies .
In the Ninth , and Tenth , OfPlants , Animals , and Man .
As to his Performance in this Volume , he therein dispatches the Four first Treatises .
In the whole , he professes to have followed the Principles of Aristotle , except where clear Experiment and Demonstration necessitate to recede from him ; observing withal , how much that Philosopher hath been perverted by A. uerroes , and the rest of that Arabian Crew .

