]\gt ; XXI .
Conditions of Chemical Change in Gases : Hydrogen , Carbonic Oxide , and Oxygen .
HAROLD B. DIXON , M.A. , the Duke of Bedford 's Lectu rer on Chemistry at Balliol College , and Millard Lecturer at Trinity College , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor A. W. WILLIAMSON , .D .
, Foreign Secretary , It .
S. Received May 15 , \mdash ; Read May 29 , 1884 , [ PLATES 41 , 42 .
] CONTENTS .
Pagc .
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
618 HENRY'S experiments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
619 BUNSEN'S experiments on the incomplete combustion of hydrogen and carbonic oxide . . . .
620 .
MEYER'S extension of BUNSEN'S experiments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
622 .
MEYER'S " " Coefficient of affinity\ldquo ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C22 Objection to this term . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
623 Experiments by .
MEYER on the iuence of an inert gas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
623 Author 's first experiments not agreeing with BUNSEN'S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
626 Experiments showing the reason of this discrepancy , that the steam present takes part in the reaction .
627 Experiments with dry gases proving that dry carbonic oxide and oxygen do not combine directly Methods of preparation of the pure gases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
629 Dr. BoTSCH'S criticism The influence of various gases on the inflammability of dry carbonic oxide and oxygen .
633 The rapidity of explosion , measured by the pressure produced , affected by the amount of aqueous vapour present Determination of the rapidity of explosion of gaseous mixtures by BERTHELOT and VIEILLE .
The law deduced therefrom Author 's experiments on the rapidity of explosion of carbonic oxide and oxygen with varying quantities of aqueous vapour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Conclusions drawn from the previously-described experiments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
641 Explosion of dry carbonic oxide and electrolytic gas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Author 's experiments compared with BUNSEN'S and HoRSTNANN'S .
644 Experiments on the inflnenpe of initial pressure and length of column of the gases exploded 645 Preparation of the gases employed Tables showing the influence of length of column at different pressures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tables showing the influence of initial pressure , the length of column being constant . . .
649 ' ' Critical pressures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, HORSTMANN'S experiments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Second series of HORSTMANN'S experiments Page .
HORSTNANN'S conclusions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
657 Author 's experiments with dry gases above critical pressure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
658 Equation representing the rate of chemical change in the combustion of carbonic oxide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Effect of an increase of oxygen on the rate of chemical change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
660 Experiments on the influence of initial temperature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
662 Explanation of the effect of initial temperature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
665 Experiments on the critical pressure at high temperatures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
667 Experiments on the effect of varying the proportion of ogen to oxygen in the explosive mixture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
672 General conclusions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
674 References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Appendix . .
, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note by Mr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
: . . . . .
682 INTRODUCTION .
THE influence of physical forces , of modes of regation and of mass , not only on the result , but on the manner of the transformation of one kind of matter into another kind\mdash ; in brief , the condition.of chemical change\mdash ; present a problem to the chemist which only of late years has been submitted to experimental ation .
The difficulties besetting this line of inquiry are many , but the greatest of them is the difficulty of finding a reaction that is simple in kind , that takes place between bodies which can be prepared in great purity , and that yields products which can be exactly measured .
Several methods of investigation have been pursued .
The course of a gradual change between two bodies has been followed step by , either by measuring the amount of residue still remaining undecomposed after successive equal intervals of time , or by measuring the time required for the successive formation of equal quantities of one of the products of the reaction .
Such was the method employed by BERTHELOT , who measured the rate of etherification of an alcohol by an acid , and by HARCOURT and ESSON , who measured the rate of decomposition of hydric peroxide by hydric iodide .
Unluckily but few of the reactions , which occur slowly enough for such investigation , appear to be of a simple n.ature ; examination reveals the fact that , in most cases , the from the initial substances to the final product does not take place in one stage , but is a complex reaction brought about by the successive formation and decomposition of intermediate compoumds at rates which severally vary with the conditions of the experiment .
Another method of investigation is that of comparing the rates of two } ) osite changes taking place simultaneously in a homogeneous mixture .
When two bodies enter into double decomposition to form two new bodies which are themselves capable , under the conditions of the experiment , of re-forming the original substances by a reverse change , a mixture of the four bodies is produced .
and an equilibrium is finally established when the rate of decomposition of one pair of the reacting bodies is exactly IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
equalled by the rate of decomposition of the other pair .
Were it pcssible to measure accurately the quantities of four reacting bodies which preserve such an equilibrium , the precise relative rate of the two changes ] be ined .
But in most cases it is impossible to make accurate mea , surements of one of the constituents of a mixture without separating it from the others , and thus disturbing the equilibrium ; so that some indirect method of measurement becomes in experiments of nature .
Changes of colour , of temperature , of volume , of magnetic and optical properties , have afforded indirect methods of measuring the amount of particular bodies present in such a mixture without separating the constituents .
By these means measurements of the rate of chemical change have made by GLADSTONE , , OSTWALD , GULDBERG and WAAGE , and other chemists .
Again,.when one body is presented to two others which are in excess , with each of which it is capable of uniting to form a stable compound , it divides itself between the two in proportions depending upon the relative rates at which the two reactions take place .
Measurements of the masses of the reacting substances present at the beginning of the experiment and of the products finally formed give data for the relative rates of the two changes .
The incomplete combustion of a mixture of hydrogen and carbonic oxide by a small quantity of oxygen seemed to present a case of this kind suitable for investigation .
The gases could easily be prepared in a pure state ; the measurement , explosion , and subsequent analysis could be readily performed in a eudiometer .
By the study of this reaction , BUNSEN , with the refined apparatus devised by himself for the manipulation of gases , made the first attempt to elucidate the laws of chemical change .
His experiments form the starting-point of several long series of observations by E. von MEYER , HOBSTMANN , and other chemists , and led me to make a careful investigation of the conditions which affect the chemical changes occurring during the explosion of these gases .
An account of this tion , carried on during severaJ years , I venture to bring before the Royal Society , the belief that the results obtained clear up some discrepancies between the observations of previous workers , and prove that , under the simplest conditions , the division of the oxygen is determined by the reaction of two pairs of gaseous bodies , forming a system in mobile equilibrium capable of exact expression by a nple formula .
HENRY'S The first experiments on the incomplete combustion of hydrogen and bonic oxide were made by HENRY .
In a memoir printed .
in these Transactions ( 1824 ) , HENItY compared the action of the electric spark and of platinum sponge on 1nixtures of carbonic oxide and electrolytic gas .
He discovered the fact that the lowel the temperature at which the reaction occurs the greater is the of produced .
He writes : made numcrous experiments to ascertain whether the oxygen , ttlldcr these circumstances of slow combustion , is divided between the carbonic oxide snd the hydrogen in proportions corresponding to the volumes of those two gases .
The combustible gases being in equal volumes , and the oxygen sufficient to saturate only one of them , it was found that the oxygen which had united with the carbonic oxide was to that which had combined with the hydrogen as about 5 to 1 in voluma Increasing the carbonic oxide , a still larger proportion of oxygen was expended in forming carbonic acid .
On the contrary , when the hydrogen was increased , a greater proportional quantity of oxygen went to the formation of water .
" " But a similar distribution of oxygen between carbonic oxide and hydrogen does not take place when those three gases are fired together by the electric spark .
This will appear from the following table , in which the three first columns show the quantities of that were fired , and the two last the quantities of oxygen that were found to have united with the carbonic oxide and with the hydrogen .
TABLE I. Before firing .
H. Experiment 1 " " When equal volumes of carbonic oxide and hydrogen gases , mixed with oxygen sufficient to saturate only one of them , were exposed in a glass tube to the flame of a spirit lamp , without the presence of the sponge , till the tube began to soften , the combination of the gases was effectea without explosion , and was merely indicated by a diminution of volume , and an oscillatory motion of the mercury in the tube .
At the close of the experiment , out of twenty volumes of oxygen , eight were found to have united with the carbonic oxide , and twelve with the hydrogen , proportions which do not materially differ from the results of the first experiment in the foregoing table .
At high temperatures , then , the attraction of hydrogen for oxygen appears to exceed that of carbonic oxide for oxygen : at lower temperatures , especially when the gases are in contact with the platinum sponge , the reverse takes place , and the affinity of carbonic oxide for oxygen prevails BUNSEN'S experiments .
BUNSEN thus states the problem : " " The proportion in which one body divides itself between two others\mdash ; present in large excess over it\mdash ; does not depend merely on the relative strength of their , 'Ann .
Chem. , 137 .
IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
chemical attraction , but also on the relative quantities of them present .
If and represent the masses of two bodies A and capable of combining with to form compounds AC and , and if and represent the affinities of A and for respectively , then the proportion of the compound AC formed to the compound BC formed will be expressed by the equation " " It follows from this that any alteration in the mass of either A or will cause a corresponding alteration in the proportion of the compounds AC and BC formed This Law of Mass , commonly attributed to BERTHOLLET , was tested by BUNSEN in the following way : He exploded in a eudiometer different mixtures of carbonic oxide and hydrogen with a quantity of oxygen lfficient to completely burn them .
In the explosion a portion of the carbonic oxide was burnt to carbonic acid , and a portion of the hydrogen was burnt to steam .
If the above law of mass held good , the relative quantities of carbonic acid and steam formed would alter in a regular manner with the relative quantities of carbonic oxide and hydrogen taken .
Partly owing to the paucity of his experiments , and partly owing to an undetected source of error , BUNSEN wrongly concluded that the law of mass was modified in a particular way by the tendency of the atoms to form simple hydrates of carbonic acid .
" " This catalytic action which the excess of molecules present , taking no part in the decomposition , exert upon the combining molecules is seen in a most remarkable manner in the volumetric relation between the products formed by the combustion , and brings to light a singular law which appears be of fundamental importance in the mode of action of affinity .
If the particles in a homogeneous gaseous mixture have the choice of combination between the particles and of two other gases present in excess , a certain equilibrium ensues between the attractions of ] the particles , so that the compounds and , formed by the union of with and stand in a simple tion to one another , dependent on the amount of the particles remaining uncombined , and undergoing discontinuous alteration on gradual increase of these particles BUNSEN'S experiments , made by exploding electrolytic gas with varying proportions of carbonic oxide , gave numbers , representing the relation between the acid and steam formed , which almost exactly corresponded with the six most simple hydrates of carbonic acid .
In his paper he showed that a variation of pressure from 317 millims. of mercury to 726 millims. did not materially alter the proportion in which the oxygen divided itself , and that the same result was obtained the explosion was made in the sunlight or in the dark .
In the first edition of the ' 1857 .
' Gasometrische Methoden , ' published in 1857 , some further experime , nts were added , which are included in the following table : TABLE Experiments .
These experiments remained without confirmation until 1874 , when E. von MEYER published a paper on the " " Incomplete Combustion of Gases in which he pointed out that when mixtures of carbonic oxide and hydrogen were exploded with progressively increasing quantities of oxygen , the proportion in which the oxygen divided itself altered per saltum , and that this proportion might always be expressed by whole numbers . .
MEYER regarded his experiments as confirming BUNSEN'S law , but as HORSTMANN subsequently pointed out , the whole numbers , expressing the ratios between the amounts of carbonic acid and steam formed , were in some cases so large that the difference between one such whole number and the next above or below it , fell within the limits of experimental error .
The ratio of the volume of steam formed per unit volume of hydrogen present to the volume of carbonic acid formed per unit volume of carbonic oxide present , was called by .
MEYER the coefficient of of hydrogen for oxygen compared with that of carbonic oxide for oxyge1l .
Taking the affinity of carbonic oxide for oxygen as the unit , the coefficient for hydrogen and oxygen is given by the equation This " " coefficient of affinity\ldquo ; according to .
MEYER is not a constant , but varies per saltum within small limits on account of the discontinuous alteration in the proportion of carbonic oxide and hydrogen burnt .
It is greatest when the quantity of oxygen * This table is affected by two or three small errors of calculation , which bring the numbers , expressing the ratio of carbonic acid to steam formed , nearer to the theoretical numbers than they should be .
These errors are corrected in the second edition of BUNSEN'S ' Gasometrische lIethoden .
' 'Journal { iir praktischc Chemie ' ( 2 ) , 10 , 273 .
IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND used is as small as possible , and the mixture therefore approaches the limit of inflammability .
As the quantity of oxygen is increased , he says , the proportion of steam to carbonic acid produced must necessarily approximate to the proportion in which the hydrogen and carbonic oxide are originally present , although this proportion never actually reached , because , when the oxygen is nearly sufficient for complete combustion , the hydrogen is all burnt while some carbonic oxide remains unoxidized .
The true coefficient of affinity , according to .
MEYER , is that obtained with the minimum quantity of oxygen .
There is an obvious objection to this use of the term " " coefficient of aflinity The smallest proportion of oxygen used by .
MEYER that which was just necessary to produce an explosion .
He gives no proof that , if this proportion were diminished further , the ratio ofcarbonic acid to steam produced would be unaltered .
The limit of inflammability is not necessarily the limit of the exercise of chemical affinity .
If we assume that oxygen unites with the excess of oxide and according to the equations\mdash ; then the divison of the oxygen between the carbonic oxide and the hydrogen depends on the rate at which oxygen unites with carbonic oxide , and the rate at which it unites with hydrogen , under the conditions existing at each moment the beginning of the change until the last molecule of oxygen is broken up .
These conditions change at each moment ( without reference to the changes of temperature and pressure ) , since the carbonic oxide and the hydrogen are attacked at unequal rates , and therefore the proportions of carbonic oxide and hydrogen unconsumed vary continually during the combustion .
In this case , the final division of the oxygen rep ] esents the sum or net result of its dividing itself between the two combustible gases in a series of different ratios a series of successive moments .
Its division would represent the actual ratio of two constant rates only if one of two conditions were fulfilled .
Firs'c , if the ratio of the combustible gases in the mixture were the same as the ratio of carbonic acid and steam formed ; or , secondly , if the proportion of oxygen were so small the subt1action , by combustion , of the corresponding ities of the combustible gases would not materially alter their ratio .
The first condition can only be fulfilled by burning all the combustible gases .
The second involves the measurements of such small quantities that the errors of experiment become important .
Practically , the limit of inflammability of the mixture imposes an inferior limit to the reduction of the quantity of oxygen which prevents the second condition being fulfilled .
The effect produced by the presence of an inert gas , nitrogen , which takes no part in the chemical action , on the division of the oxygen between the two combustit ) ] gases was also studied by .
MEYER .
, found that on addition of nitrogen the MR. H. B. DIXON ON CONDITIONS OF CHEMICAL CHANGE coefficient of affinity was altered , more carbonic oxide and less hydrogen being burnt .
When similar mixtures were exploded in tubes of different diameter , .
MHYER in most cases found that the coefficient of affinity was altered .
In a large tube of 20 millims. diameter more carbonic oxide and less hydrogen were burnt than in narrower tubes of millims. and millims. diameter .
With one mixture , however , MEYER found no alteration of the coefficient whether the explosion was made in the largest tube or the smallest .
This change of affinity he attributed to the increased fi.iction of the gases in the narrower tubes , which he says always tends to increase the relative affinity of hydrogen for oxygen .
In most cases this increase of affinity is sufficient , according to .
MEYER , to cause a leap in the proportion of hydrogen to carbonic oxide burnt , but in a few cases , where the equilibrium is more stable , this increase of affinity does not suffice to alter the ratio of the gases burnt .
In the summer of 1876 , at the suggestion of Mr. VnRNON HARCOURT , I began experiments in the Christ Church laboratory to test the truth of BUNSEN'S law , I was ignorant at the time of the paper HORSTMANN had published in a local journal at Heidelberg in the spring of the same year .
Description of the The apparatus employed in the earlier experiments detailed in this paper was devised by Professor McLEOD and erected by him in the LEE'S laboratory at Cbrist Church , Oxford .
The construction of this instrument is too well known to require description .
The later experiments were made in the laboratory of Balliol College with an apparatus devised by Professor F. D. BROWN for measuring the tensions of saline solutions .
The only alterations I found necessary to make were ( 1 ) the substitution of a eudiometer ( with a bent capillary tube and steel cap ) in place of the shorter tension-tube , ( 2 ) the adjustment of a movable shelf to two of the iron uprights to hold a mercury trough for the laboratory tube .
A general view of this instrument and details of the connections are given in Plates 41 and 42 .
The framework of the instrument is very strongly constructed of iron , screwed up firmly together .
The jacket surrounding the eudiometer is of copper , with a wooden casing .
The jacket has a door near the bottom , and a movable plate at the top , both made of gun-metal .
The windows are of plate glass .
The liquid employed in the jacket is water for temperatures below , and a mixture of glycerin and water for higher temperatures .
A screw-stirrer is made to revolve in the liquid .
In an annular pipe , outside the jacket , and opening into it near the top and bottom , the liquid is heated and a continuous circulation maintained .
Two thermometers graduated to tenths of degrees are placed at different heights in the jacket .
The mean of their readings is taken as the temperature of the gas in the eudiometer .
The barometer tube is surroundeCl with a water-jacket .
An enlargement at the top *Verb .
des Heidelb .
naturf .
med .
Vereins , N.S. , I. , 3 .
IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
ishes the error due to residual air .
The heights of the mercury in the eudiometer and barometer are read off by a cathetometer .
The whole apparatus stands on a stone floor in a ] underground .
The platinum wires are sealed into the eudiometer close to the shoulder , and are passed through two small glass prominences , over each of which an india-rubber tube surrounding the wire is stretched so as to prevent contact between the wire and the water in the jacket .
By this device a spark can be passed between the wires without lowering the water in the jacket .
The lower ends of the eudiometer and barometer are not contracted .
They are fastened gas-tight into steel blocks by a collar and nut compressing three or four india-rubber rings .
The details of these junctions and of the 3-way steel cock are given in the diagrams ( Plate 42 .
) By this arrangement the eudiometer and barometer can easily be removed and cleaned out with a long brush .
I have found the steel caps joining the eudiometer and laboratory tube to answer their purpose most admirably .
In eight years ' work I have never known an experiment to be lost on account of any failure of thisjoint .
The readings of the instrument are made by artificial light .
On the further side of the jacket a screen , half of translucent paper and half of black paper , with their line of demarcation horizontal , was made to slide up and down close to the window .
Behind this screen and moving with it an argand burner , connected by a flexible tube with the gas supply , is adjusted ; with this artificial illumination more concordant readings are obtained than with variable daylight , and the experiments can be carried on at all hours .
Repetition of BUNSEN'S experiment .
I commenced by repeating BUNSEN'S experiments with carbonic oxide and electrolytic gas .
The gases were exploded over mercury in a wet eudiometer , and the ations made according to the directions in BuNSHjN'S " " Gasometry In the following table the results of this first series of experiments are given side by side with BUNSEN'S results , and expressed in a similar manner for the purpose of comparison .
The explosions were made under pressures varying i'rom 200 millims. of mercury , and between the temperatures of and C. CCLXXXIV .
IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBON ] OXIDE , AND The re-action between oxide and oxygen .
In the first place the question presented itself\mdash ; Is the action between a small quantity of oxygen and an excess of combustible gases always complete , or is it possible that a certain number of oxygen molecules may during the moment of explosion remain in equilibrium between the ractions of the other molecules around them and so remain uncombine To solve this question a mixture of carbonic oxide with one-third its volume of oxygen was fired in a wet eudiometer at C. and under a pressure millims. Carbonic oxide . . .
75 volumes , Oxygen . . . . .
25 Before explosion .
After explosion After absorption , , Contraction , , Absorption The contraction on explosion was found to be less than the original volume of oxygen volume , and the absorption was found to be more than double the volume of vgen by 8 volume .
Since more carbonic acid was produced than could have been formed by the oxygen taken , it was evident that the carbonic oxide must have been oxidized to ' extent by the steam present in the eudiometer .
Now for every molecule of carbonic oxide so oxidized , a molecule of free hydrogen must be liberated , and the place of the decomposed molecule of steam would be filled by the volatilization of a molecule of water from the sides of the tnbe .
In this experiment the oxygen , if completely consutned , would oxidize 50 volumes of carbonic oxide to carbonic acid , but since volumes of carbonic acid were formed , 8 volume of carbonic oxide have been oxidized by the steam .
This reduction volume of steam , produoing an equal volume of hydrogen , would make the contraction on explosion .
volume less than it would have been had no such secondary action taken place .
The observed contraction agreed with this .
A repetition of the gave a similar result .
Volume of carbonic oxide oxygen Total volume before explosion after explosion a fter absorption 73.24 26.76 Contraction ) Absorption Here the volume of carbonic acid formed is more than twice the volume of taken by 8 volurne , the osion is less than the volume of ) ' 630 MR. If .
B. DIXON ON CONDITIONS OF CHEMICAL CHANGE ments of pumice saturated with concentrated sulphuric acid .
It was coUected over mercury in glass cylinders which had been heated and filled while hot with hot mercury .
On exploding 100 volumes of the gas in a wet eudiometer with volumes of oxygen a contraction of volumes was observed , and on treating the residual gases with potash a further contraction of volumes was observed .
The oxygen was prepared by heating re-crystallized potassium chlorate in a piece of combustion tubing drawn out and bent , so that the drawn out end formed a delivery tube which dipped under the surface of mercury .
On exploding 100 volumes of the gas with excess of hydrogen a contraction of volumes was observed .
The following experiments were conducted in form of gas analysis apparatus .
A mixture of the two gases in the proportion of 2 volumes carbonic oxide to 1 volume oxygen was kept in a glass nder over mercury in contact with a stick of potash .
The apparatus , after dried air had been drawn through all its parts for twelve hours , was charged with hot mercury , and then specially dried in the folowing manner .
The water in the glass jacket surrounding the eudiometer and barometer was kept for some hours at a temperature of C. , while air , drawn through a nearly horizontal drying tube containing sulphuric acid , was passed by means of a bent glass tube dipping under the surface of the mercury in the trough , through the laboratory tube , eudiometer and barometer , to the top of which an aspirator was attached .
The mercury from the reservoir was run up several times into the hot tubes , so as to to the glass any traces of moisture it might carry with it , and more dry air was drawn through the tubes after the mercury had been returned to the reservoir .
By reversing the inclination of the sulphuric acid drying tube , the air in the eudiometer was expelled through it without disconnecting the laboratory tube .
Finally the bent tube was removed , the air in the laboratory tube drawn over into the eudiometer , and the former , when completely filled with mercury , closed by its stopcock .
The laboratory tube and eudiometer were then disconnected , the air in the expelled by running up the mercury until drops issued from the steel cap , when the stopcock was turned and the laboratory tube connected up again .
The mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen , prepared as above , was transferred from the glass cylinder to the laboratory bube , and thence was drawn into the eudiometer and placed under a pressure of 250 millims. ofmercury , at a temperature of C. On passing a spark from a Leyden-jar through the gases they did not ignite .
Several powerful sparks were passed without result , and then the rapid succession of sparks from a RUHMKORFF'S coil was employed .
At the first discharge the gases ignited and burnt slowly down the tube .
The eudiometer was then further dried by drawing through it at 10 C. air which had been passed through two.horizontal drying tubes freshly charged with sulphuric acid .
Some of the mixture used in the last experiment was passed into the eudiometer , and put under a pressure of 100 millims. ( temp. Sparks from the RUHMKORFF coil were passed through it without igniting it .
The gases were tested under 150 millims. pressure with the same result .
Under 200 millims. the gases did not ignite when a continuous IN GASES : HYDROGEN , OXIDE , AND GEN .
631 succession of sparks was passed , but the platinum wires became red hot , showing that some local action was produced .
Under 250 millims. pressure the gases ignited on pa , ssing the spark .
The disc of flame took about three seconds to travel down the half-metre of tube filled with the mixture .
Some of the same mixture , standing in the laboratory tube , was charged with aqueous vapour by passing a drop of water to the surface of the mercury .
It was drawn over into the eudiometer and put under 150 millims. pressure .
On passing a spark from the coil the gases exploded suddenly down the tube .
The passage of the flame was too quick to be followed by the eye .
Into a ] straight eudiometer , heated and filled while hot with hot mercury , some of the same gaseous mixture was passed up .
A little phosphoric oxide [ powder ] was then introduced into the tube , which was shaken so that the oxide adhered to the sides of the glass .
The gases were left standing in the tube for an hour .
A spark from a Leyden-jar was then passed between the platinum wires without effecting the ignition of the gases .
The gases were under a pressure of 700 millims. Several powerful sparks were without any result .
A discharge from the coil ignited the gases .
This experiment was repeated with the following modifications .
Into the gaseous mixture in the small eudiometer was passed up a stick of phosphoric oxide , made by pressing the powder into a short glass tube closed at one end with a cork .
To pass up this stick , the glass tube was depressed under the end of the eudiometer , the cork removed , and the phosphoric oxide pushed up by a glass rod .
The gases were allowed to stand for two days in contact with the phosphoric oxide , the eudiometer being clamped down on to a caoutchouc cushion under mercury .
On passing a spark from a Leyden-jar , no combustion took place .
The pressure was 700 millims. The first discharge from the coil caused a very slight combustion near the wires .
On loosening the clamp the mercury rose about 2 millims. in the tube .
No further combination place on passing a succession of sparks from the coil .
A little water was then introduced by a pipette .
The heat evolved on contact of the oxide with the water caused the mixture to explode with a bright and sudden flash .
It appears from these experiments the greater the degree of dryness reached , the greater pressure the gases can withstand without entering into explosive combination when an electric spark is passed through them .
An attempt was next made to dry the gases and tubes more thoroughly .
mixture of the two gases in the same proportions , and prepared in the same way , was placed in a glass gasholder over concentrated sulphuric acid .
The explosion tubes , each drawn out at one end , and fitted at the other with a caoutchouc stopper and glass tube , were joined together by short pieces of india-rubber tubing .
They were then strongly heated , while air , previously dried by passing through a horizontal sulphuric acid tube , was aspirated through them .
When cool , the stopper of each was removed , a plug of freshly-packed phosphoric oxide quickly pushed in , and the stopper immediately replaced .
The tubes were then drawn out near the stoppered end in the blow-pipe flame .
They were then reconnected by ) pieces of tubing .
Between the gasholder and the first explosion tube a drying tube packed with phosphoric oxide was placed ; the last explosion tube was connected with a delivery tube , opening under strong sulphuric acid in a wash-bottle .
The mixture of gases was then forced through the tubes , and when about a litre had been avowed to escape from the wash-bottle , the counterpoise of the gasholder was so adjusted that the pressure in the tubes was a little less than the pressure of the atmosphere .
A fine BUNSEN flame was then brought to bear upon the capillary portions of the tubes until the sides fell in umder the external pressure , whereupon the glass was melted and drawn out .
This operation was found to be far from eas ; more than half the tubes so charged were fired during the sealing , owing to the contact of the insufficiently dried gases with the heated glass .
I tried in vain to seal up damp tubes filled with the same mixture ; the gases always exploded when the fine glass tubes got red hot .
About half the samples of carbonic oxide and oxygen sealed up with phosphoric oxide were unaffected when a succession of sparks from a coil was passed through them a few .
hours afterwards The other half ignited after the discharge had been passing for a few seconds .
In some cases this appeared to be due to some phosphoric oxide having been shaken on to the platinum wires , which gave off moisture when heated by the discharge .
In other cases , I believe , the ignition was due to the platinum wires themselves , when heated by the discharge , giving up occluded hydrogen , which uniting with the oxygen present supplied the steam necessary for the combustion .
An easier method of drying the gases was next adopted with complete success .
glass tube about 600 millims. long was closed at one end , and at a point 100 millims. from the open end it was bent at an angle of .
Near the closed end two long and thick platinum wires , ending in of platinum about 2 millims. in diameter , were fused through the glass .
Between these balls sparks could be passed from a jar or a coil without appreciably raising their temperature .
The bent tube was heated and filled with bot mercury .
The mixture ofcarbonic oxide and oxygen was then introduced from the by a fine glass tube passing down through the mercury in the shorter arm .
When the longer arm was nearly filled with the mixture , a freshly packed stick of phosphoric oxide was introduced into the gases , and the open end closed with a caoutchouc stopper .
The mixture of gases was thus separated from the air by some six or eight inches of mercury and the caoutchouc stopper .
After standingfor twentyfour hours , the mixture was unaffected by a torrent of sparks from a powerful coil .
In one of these tubes I have submitted the gases to a pressure of 800 millims. , and passed a discharge without igniting them .
On passing up some water through the mercury by a pipette and allowing the vapour to diffuse , the mixture was rendered explosive .
* Four of these tubes were exhibited before the Chemical Section of the British Association at Swansea in 1880 .
When tested with sparks from a Leyden-jar no action was observed ; with a discharge from the coil the wires became red-hot , but the gases did not explode .
I gratefully acknowledge the valuable help given me ) Mr. S. .
MILLER , laboratory assistant at Christ Church , in charging these tubes .
IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
Dr. BoTSCH* .
a dissertation read at Tubingen has denied the fact ( briefly announced by me 1880 ) that the absence of steam prevents the combination of carbonic oxide and oxygen by the spark .
He states that he has repeated the experiment , and the mixture exploded , " " even when dried by phosphoric oxide He found that by sufficiently reducing the pressure he could prevent the propagation of the explosion , both in the wet and dry gases .
He suggests as an explanation of my results that the dry gases were tested under a less pressure than the wet gases .
From the detailed account I have given above , it is evident that Dr. BoTSCH'S explanation does not account for the facts observed .
I conclude that he failed to obtain the same result by not leaving the mixture long enough in contact with dry phosphoric oxide .
I may add that during the last two years , several of my pupils have repeated ) experiment in the Balliol College laboratory , so that the fact of the non-inflammability of the dry gases when submitted to an electric spark under ordinary pressure and temperature , may fairly be considered beyond the possibility of doubt .
Experiments have already been described in which the addition of water to a nonexplosive mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen has rendered it explosive .
Into one of the explosion tubes above described a piece of potash ( previously fused and heated to redness in a silver boat , and allowed to cool in a desiccator ) was introduced .
It was fused to the glass at the top of the tube above the ] atinum wires .
The phosphoric oxide was then introduced , the tube was drawn out to a capillary end in the blowpipe and charged with the mixture .
It was then sealed up in the flanle and allowed to stand .
After two days the gases were tested with a succession of sparks without exploding .
The potash was then gently warmed by applying a BUNSH : N flame to the top of the tube .
On passing a spark , a flame passed up from the platinum wires to the top of the tube .
After standing an hour it was again tested with a spark .
No explosion took place .
On heating the potash rather strongly and passing another spark a flame passed up from the platinum to the top of the tube , and downwards about half the length of the tube .
After the tube had stood about two hours longer , a third flame was produced on reheating the potash and passing a spark .
To try what effect the admixture of small quantities of different gases had on the determination of the explosion , some of the mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen previously used was brought over into the eudiometer of , which had been dried at 10 C. Under 300 ] lims .
pressure the mixture did not ] on passing through it a succession of sparks .
A little cal'bonic acid gas , dried over phosphoric oxide , was introduced .
The spark was passed without causing an explosion .
A fresh charge of cal.bonic oxide and oxygen was brought into the , and a small quantity of cyanogen , dried over phosphoric oxide , introduced .
The spark did not cause an explosion under 300 millims. pressure .
A fresh portion of the same mixture , with a small quantity of dry air , was tested under the same pressure with Annalen , 1882 .
the same result .
Similarly , small quantities of dry nitrous oxide and dry carbon bisuiphide were found not to render the mixture inflammable .
A small quantity of hydrogen dried over phosphoric oxide , occupying about of the total volume of the gases , was next introduced into a fresh portion of the dry mixture .
On passing a spark under 300 millims. pressure , the gases ignited and burnt rather slowly down the tube .
After the apparatus had been re-dried some of the same mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen was introduced into the laboratory tube , and a portion of it was drawn over into the eudiometer and tested by a spark under S00 millims. pressure , without ignition .
A drop of ether was then passed up into the laboratory tube ; very small quantity of the mixed gases , charged with ether vapour , was drawn over into the eudiometer .
After the gases had been allowed to interdiffuse for an hour , the passage of the spark caused an explosion under 250 miHims .
pressure .
Similarly a trace of the vapour of the hydrocarbon pentane rendered the mixture explosive .
In the same way I have found that both a trace of dry hydric chloride gas and a trace of dry sulphuretted hydrogen gas render a non-inflammable mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen explosive .
From these experiments it appears that the non-explosive mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen is rendered explosive not only by the presence of a trace of steam , but by traces of other bodies containing hydrogen which react with oxygen to produce steam .
Nitrogen , cyanogen , nitrous oxide , carbon bisulphide , and carbonic acid do not confer inflammability on the mixture .
To test the effect of the presence of steam on other gaseous mixtures , I made some comparative experiments on dry and wet mixtures of hydrogen and oxygen obtained by the electrolysis of dilute sulphuric acid .
Into the carefully dried eudiometer of McLEOD'S apparatus a mixture of equal volumes of air and electrolytic gas , which had been standing for some days over phosphoric oxide , was introduced .
Beginning at 20 millims. , the pressure was increased 5 millims. at a time until the gases exploded .
dry mixture did not explode under 70 millims. ; it did explode under 75 millims. The residue was run out and a fresh portion of the same mixture introduced into the damp tube .
Beginning at 20 millims. , the pressure was increased by 5 millims. at a time until the gases exploded .
The damp mixture did not explode under 70 millims. ; it did explode under 75 milhm The union of oxygen and hydrogen is therefore not affected by the presence or absence of water .
On the other hand , a mixture of cyanogen with ten volumes of air , which had stood over phosphoric oxide , did not explode when the pressure was raised step by step from 100 millims. to 800 millims. in the dry eudiometer .
On addition of aqueous vapour the mixture did not explode under 300 millims. , but did explode under 305 millims. I am inclined to think that cyanogen undergoes oxidation in the same.way as carbonic oxide , through the medium of steam .
*Note added Dec. , 1884.\mdash ; LOTHAR MEYER and K. SEUBERT ( Journ. Chem. Soc. , Oct. , 1884 ) find that electrolytic gas is only partially burnt when a spark from a coil is passed through it under a pressure of millims. ; at 72 millims. pressure the combustion is complete .
IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC , AND OXYGEN .
Mention has been made of the slowness with which the flame travels down the explosion when a mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen in a state of comparative dryness is lgnited .
To obtain some idea of the rate of propagation of explosion under these conditions , some of the mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen was brought into the well-dried eudiometer of the gas apparatus .
A loud-beating seconds ' pendulum was set goin close by , and a spark sent from the coil as a second struck .
By watching at the level of the mercury below and listening to the beats of the pendulum , the passage of the flam ' could be roughly timed .
Beginning at 260 millims. , the pressure was raised 20 millims. between each passage of the spark .
The gases withstood 480 millims. pressure without igniting ; at 500 millims. pressure ignited .
The flame was timed to pass down the 360 millims. between the wires and the surface of the mercury in seconds .
The eudiometer was re-charged , a drop of water passed over and the gases fired under 500 millims. pressm.e .
The passage of the flame appeared instantaneous .
An attempt was made to measure the effect of different quantities of steatn on the rate of propagation of the explosion .
This was done by comparing the pressures produced in the tube when equal of carbonic oxide and oxygen were successively exploded at the same temperature and pressure with different lnounts of aqueous vapour .
Since the total of heat evolved in each explosion was the same , and the cooling surface was the same in each experiment , a quicker explosion would bring the column of gases to a higher average temperature than a explosion , and would therefore cause a sharper push on the mercury column .
If a sufficiently sensitive gauge were attached to the eudiometer , its readings would give comparative indications of the rate of explosion of the carbonic oxide and oxygen .
Near the bottom of the eudiometer in which the gases were exploded , a self-registering pressure gauge was attached by a strong glass tube .
The gauge ( of 1 mill-im .
bore ) contained air in the closed limb over mercury .
An index , similar to those used in SIx 's thermometer , was carried up and left at the highest position reached by the mercury .
Near the bend of the gauge two bulbs were blown in the tube as reservoirs , enabling the mercury to be lowered in the eudiometer without permitting the air to escape from the closed limb of the gauge .
This gauge was found to be not very sensitiye , but the difference between its readings ( 1 ) with the slow combustion of the nearly dry gases , and ( 2 ) with the rapid explosion of the gases saturated with was well marked .
In two experiments a trace only of aqueous yapour present .
The eudiometer was dried at C. , by drawing through it for half an hour air which ssed through two long sulphuric-acid drying tubes and a small tube COlJtaining phosphoric oxide .
It was found that by this method of drying just sufficient aqueous vapou ] remained in the tube to enable the combustion to take place slowly when spal.ks .
from a RUHMKORFF'S coil were passed through the gases .
In the first experiment several sparks were passed before the gases took fire .
In both experiments the disc of occupied about two seconds in passing down the length of 500 millims. occupied by the gases in the eudiometer .
Tn three other experiments measured quantities of aqueous vapour were added short of saturation ; in the last two experiments the aqueous vapour was at maximum tension , and the sides of the eudiometer were wet .
Before each explosion the mercury in the gauge was brought to the mark 229 on the scale , which indicated a pressure of 533 millims. of mercury on the air in the closed limb .
The following table gives the quantities of aqueous yapour in each experiment , the readings of the pressure gauge , and the pressures corresponding to those readings .
TABLE Iy.\mdash ; Pressures produced by the explosion of carbonic oxide and oxygen with varying quantities of steam .
These experiments show very plainly the increased rapidity of the propagation of the explosion produced by the addition of steam to the mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen .
With the exception of the 5th experiment the pressures registered mount up regularly with the increase of aqueous tension in the eudiometer .
During the last three years several most interesting and ingeniously devised series of experiments have been brought before the French Academy of Sciences by MM .
BERTHELOT and VIEILLE , and by MM .
MALLARD and LE CHATELIER on the velocity of explosion of gases .
They have shown the velocity to be far in excess of the rates previously assigned .
The old determinations of BUNSEN gave for the velocity of explosion of electrolytic gas 34 metres per second , and for carbonic oxide and oxygen 1 metre per second .
These numbers must be multiplied a thousandfold .
MM .
BERTHELOT and VIEILL have shown that the explosion of any particular mixture of gases in a tube begins slowly , increases in velocity , and finally gives rise to an " " explosive wave which is propagated at a uniform rate .
This rate is independent of the pressure and the diameter of the tube , but varies when different explosive mixtures are used .
The experiments were made on different explosive mixtules in a tube 40 metres long .
They found the velocity of the explosive wave to be a close approximation to the mean velocity of translation of the molecules in the gaseous products of combustion calculated from the formula of CLAUSIUS .
* Comptes Rendus , , 151 .
GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
where is the absolute temperature , calculated on the assumption that the molecules contain all the heat disengaged in the reaction , and is the mean density of the gases remaining after combustion .
The rate of explosion and the calculated velocity of the gaseous molecules agree fairly well in the case of hydrogen and the simpler hydrocarbons exploded with oxygen .
For instance , they iind the velocity of explosion of electrolytic gas to be 2810 metres per second , the " " theoretical velocity\ldquo ; being 2831 metres per second .
But with carbonic oxide the velocity observed is only 1090 metres per second , the calculated velocity being 1940 .
This gas they consider , therefore , to be an exception to the general rule .
When , however , a mixture of carbonic oxide and hydrogen is exploded with oxygen , they find the obseryed velocity of explosion to approximate to the calculated velocity , and explain the fact by supposing the hydrogen to communicate to the carbonic oxide a law of detonation analogous to its own .
With mixtures of carbonic oxide and nitrous oxide , a similar divergence between the calculated and observed velocities of explosion is found , whereas with hydrogen and other gases containing hydrogen , exploded with nitrous oxide , there is a very close agreement between the observed and calculated velocities .
BERTHpLOT and dried the explosion tube before each experiment , employed dry gases .
In their experiments with hydrogen and oxygen they found that the rate of the explosive wave was independent of the material of the tube , and of its diameter above 5 millims. The velocity was the same whether the tube was curved or straight .
The maximum velocity was attained only after the explosion had travelled between 50 and 500 millims. from t , he spark .
The " " variable state\ldquo ; preceding the regime of the explosive wave differed according to the strength of the spark employed to fire the mixture .
The velocity of explosion was determined by making the flame break two thin strips of tin , stretched across the explosion tube near either end , each strip forming part of one of the circuits of a BOULENGfi chronograph .
A grain of fulminate was folded in the strips to ensure their being broken by the flame .
BERTHELOT and VIEILLE have published no experiments on the duration of the variable state preceding the establishment of the explosive way with carbonic oxide and oxygen .
Measurement of the velocity of of carbom.c oxide and oxygen .
To determine directly the initial velocity of explosion of carbonic oxide and oxygen from the point of ignition , with varying quantities of aqueous vapour , the following apparatus was employed:\mdash ; A is abrass pipe of 13 millims. internal diameter soldered into a metal trough , so that each end projected a short distance from the end of the trough .
To one end of the brass tube the firing piece was cemented .
This consisted of a short thick glass tube in which were sealed two platinum wires connected with the secondary coil of a large IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
On allowing the pendulum to fall the style registered a mark on the moving plate when the circuit was broken .
Without moving the chronograph the wires were readjusted , and the explosion made .
The distance between the two marks on the blackened plate gave the time which elapsed between the breaking of the primary coil of the RUHMKORFF and the rupture of the silver foil by the explosion , independently of the error of the chronograph ; for the position of both marks was affected equally by the retardation of the electro-magnet .
The rate of the pendulum , and therefore the interval of time to the two marks , was determined taking the trace of a standard tuning fork on the blackened plate allowed to fall from the same height .
By filling the trough with water and heating it with two argand burners , the explosion tube could be kept at any desired temperature .
Three sets of experiments were made , one at C. , the second at C. , and the third at C. The mixture ofgases , containing two volumes of carbonic oxide to one volume ofoxygen , was contained in a copper holder over water .
After the explosion tube had been dried by heating and drawing through it for some hours air which had passed through three long tubes containing pumice saturated with oil of vitriol , the mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen was driven slowly into the tube , ( 1 ) through two sulphm.ic acid drying tubes , and ( 2 ) through two long tubes containing anhydrous phosphoric acid .
When two or three litres of the mixture had been driven through the tube , the stopcocks at ends were closed and the mixture fired at a temperature of and under the atmospheric pressure .
The interval between the spark and the rupture of the silver foil was found to be 0291 second , giving a mean velocity of 36 metres per second .
The tube was then heated to by means of warm water in the trough , and some more of the same mixture was driven in through the same drying tubes .
The gases fired at ha.d a mean velocity of explosion of 69 metres per second .
On recharging the drying tubes with fresh phosphoric acid and repeating the experiment at the mean velocity of explosion was found to be 44 metres per second .
With the same drying tubes as in the last experiment the mean velocity at was found to be metres per second .
When the mixture was made to bubble through two sulphuric acid only , a far higher velocity was obtained .
At C. the mean velocity was found to be 119 metres , at C. 103 metres and 102 metres , and at C. 120 metres per second .
When the mixture was exploded at C. and saturated with steam at that temperature a mean velocity of 175 metres was reached .
At C. , therefore , the velocity of explosion of carbonic oxide and oxygen under atmospheric pressure is greatest when it is saturated with steam .
At C. a similar result was found .
In three successive experiments the mixture was driven into the warm tube through a wash-bottle containing water at , and C. respectively .
The velocity of explosion increased with the quantity of steam present .
When saturated with stealll at C. the mixture gave a velocity of 225 metres per second .
When the tube was heated to C. , and the mixture driven in over water at different temperatures , the velocity of explosion increased with the quantity of steam added .
When the mixture was saturated with steam at C. the mean velocity was 317 metres per second .
The following table gives ) results of these experiments:\mdash ; TABLE V.\mdash ; Mean rate of explosion of carbonic oxide and oxygen through one metre with different quantities of aqueous vapour under atmospheric pressure .
grometric state .
In each series of experiments the velocity of explosion of a mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen is seen to increase with successive additions of steam .
It is this initial velocity with which we have to deal in experiments with an ordinary eudiometer .
When a mixture composed of two volumes of carbonic oxide and one volume of oxygen , saturated with steam at , is exploded under atmospheric pressure , the velocity of the explosion increases rapidly from the point of inflammation .
In a of 13 millims. diameter and 55 metres long the rate of explosion is found to be constant after travelling 700 millims. along the tube ; the constant velocity of the " " explosive wave\ldquo ; attained under these conditions being rather over 1500 metres per second .
At the extremely high temperature accompanying the explosive wave .
carbonic oxide is possibly decomposed ; after the explosion the IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC , AND OXYGEN .
tube is found coated with a very fine layer of carbon .
Whether under these conditions steam is necessary for the propagation of the explosive wave is doubtful , it is possil ) that the initial reaction between the carbonic oxide , steam , and oxygen increasing in velocity as the flame travels down the tube , produces at last a temperature at which a new reaction is determined .
But such conditions do not occur in the partial burning of the comparatively short columns of gases that have been employed in researches on the incomplete combustion of gases .
The result of these various nts may be thus summarised:\mdash ; 1 .
The drier the mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen , the greater the pressure it can withstand without igniting when a spark is passed through it .
2 .
The addition of a trace of aqueous vapour to the non-inflammable mixture causes it to become inflammable , all other conditions remaining the same .
3 .
The addition of a trace of hydrogen or of a volatile body containing hydrogen causes the dry mixture to become inflammable , all other conditions remaining the same .
4 .
The rapidity of explosion of the lnixture in a tube one metre long is greater with a large quantity of aqueous vapour than when only a trace is present .
These well-established facts , coupled with the fact that carbonic oxide does decompose steam at a high temperature , appear to me to show conclusively that in the ordinary explosion of carbonic oxide and oxygen , the union is not a direct one , but is effected indirectly by the agency of hydrogen .
In a paper on the alkaline peroxides , the late Sir B. BRODIE has thus described such an indirect action:\mdash ; " " The alkaJine peroxides have a double function , and can be used as agents eithel of oxidation or of reduction .
By certain modifications of the conditions of the experiment , we can produce separately either result .
It is not unreasonable to suppose that , among the numerous and varied forms of decomposition , instances would be found in which these phenomena would occur simultaneously .
If this were to be the case the result would be what is termed a contact or catalytic decomposition , but caused by two successive changes of a normal chemical character The action of steam in determining the union of oxygen with carbonic oxide is of this kind ; that is to say , when carbonic oxide and oxygen exploded in a eudiometer , the heat of the spark causes the carbonic oxide in its immediate to decompose the steam usually present , and the hydrogen , liberated by this reaction , unites with the oxygen to re-form steam .
The steam so formed reacts with more carbonic oxide , and so the alternate changes go on until all the oxide is oxidized according to the two CO * Phil. , 1860 .
MR. H. B. DIXON ON CONDITIONS OF CHEM[CAL CHANGE The ignition of a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen and of other explosive mixtures by an electric spark , may be stopped either by sufficient rarefaction or sufficient dilution wibk a neutral gas such as carbonic acid or nitrogen .
Probably , in the first case , the mean distance of the molecules is increased to such an extent that the necessary molecular disturbance cannot be communicated from molecule to molecule , and the combustion is confined to the space between the platinum wires ; in the second case .
the neutral gas both increases the mean distance of the reacting molecules , and also decreases the temperature by absorption of heat .
In the reaction under consideration \mdash ; viz. , in a mixture of two volumes of carbonic oxide and one of oxygen\mdash ; although a single molecule of water should suffice theoretically for the oxidation of any number of carbonic oxide molecules , it is evident that the explosion cannot be propagated unless a certain minimum number of steam molecules are present .
For when the mean distance between the water molecules reaches a certain magnitude , each molecule of water becomes surrounded by a crowd of carbonic acid molecules , the product of its action on the carbonic oxide and oxygen under the influence of the electric spark ; and the incipient combustion dies out , because fresh molecules of carbonic oxide and oxygen do not come in contact with it while it has still enough kinetic energy to react with them .
The slow rate of propagation of explosion in a nearly dry mixture is also readily explained .
The carbonic oxide molecules have to wait their turn .
Though probably an enormous number of steam molecules are present in the tube , yet since they are comparatively very few , each one must do duty a vast number of times .
Each steam molecule must in turn present an atom of oxygen to as many molecules of carbonic oxide as the number of times the volume of carbonic oxide exceeds the volume of the steam .
Since each reduction and each oxidation of the oxygen-carrier takes time , a given number of carbonic oxide molecules takes longer to burn in presence of a comparatively small than in presence of a comparatively large number of steam molecules .
Explosion of dry rbonic oxide and electrolytic gas .
Having determined the action of aqueous vapour on carbonic oxide at high temperatures , I began in Nov. , 1876 , a second series of experiments with dry carbonic oxide and electro ] ytic gas in a well dried eudiometer .
After each explosion the residual gas was analysed .
Only those experiments were accepted in which the residual analysis confirmed the first part of the operation .
The gases were exploded under pressures varying between 200 millims. and 300 millims. , and at temperatures between and .
The following table , gives the composition of the mixtures and the ratio between carbonic oxide and hydrogen burnt in the several explosions .
IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
TABLE VI.\mdash ; Explosion of dry carbonic oxide and electrolytic gas .
While I was making these experiments I heard that Professor , of Heidelberg , had already published a paper*in which he had shown that BUNSEN'S results were vitiated through his having exploded the gases in a eudiometer saturated with aqueous vapour .
IfORSTMANN had repeated BUNSEN'S experiments using a dry eudiometer .
With all mixtures he found less carbonic oxide and more hydrogen burnt than BUNSEN found with similar mixtures .
He then made a series with a wet eudiometer and follnd that when water was present more carbonic oxide and less hydrogen was burnt t , han when the gases were dry .
He concluded rightly that some of the steam already present was reduced during the explosion by the excess of carbonic oxide .
He then showed , by making comparative experiments with and without the previous addition of carbonic acid , that a similar action takes place between the carbonic acid added and the excess of hydrogen .
With mixtures of carbonic oxide and electrolytic gas , less carbonic oxide and more hydrogen is burnt when rbonic acid is added to the mixture before explosion .
In these experiments proved conclusively that the alteration in the proportion of carbonic oxide and hydrogen burnt took place gradually and not per .
To compare HORSTMANN'S results with mine , I have interpolated from the curve given in paper the ratios of carbonic acid to water formed by explosion of mixtures of similar composition to mine .
These ratios I found to be always smaller than those I had obtained .
In the last column of the table I have compared in a similar way the new set of experiments given by BUNSE in the second edition of his " " Gasometry This series was made with dry gases which were exploded by a chain of sparks simultaneously sent through the length of the elldiometer .
By fusing short *Verh .
des Heidelb .
naturf .
med .
Vereins , N.S. , I. , 3 .
Gasometrischc Methoden , .
Auflage .
1877 .
IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
Bxperiments on the influence of initial pressure and of the length of the column of the on the division of the oxygen .
In the first experiment a mixture of carbonic oxide and electrolytic gas , containing 70 parts of carbonic oxide to 30 of hydrogen , was exploded in two portions , the first under 120 millims. pressure and the second under 400 millims. pressure .
In the first portion the ratio of carbonic acid to steam produced was , and in the second portion 8 .
A nearly similar mixture was divided into three portions .
The first , exploded under 100 millims. pressure , gave for the ratio ; the second , explodedunder the same pressure , but only forming a column half as long as the first portion , gave for the ratio ; the third , forming a column to the first , but exploded under 225 millims. pressure , gave85 for the ratio .
A set of experiments was then made with diffe , rent portions of the same mixture under nearly constant conditions of temperature and pressure , but with variations in the length of the column of exploded gases .
In these and all the subsequent experiments the method of drying the apparatus , charging the eudiometer and calculating the results , was adopted .
The whole apparatus being emptied of mercury , air was drawn for twelve hours by a pump attached to the top of the barometer , through two long horizontal dryirig tubes charged with oi of vitriol , through a bent tube passing under the mercury in the trough and opening into the laboratory tube , thence through the capillary connecting tubes down the eudiometer and up the barometer .
The taps at the top of the barometer and at the bottom of the eudiometer were then closed and the drying tubes were attached to the mercury reservoir .
Dry air was then drawn for some hours through the reservoir and long connecting tube , and up the barometer .
The mouth of the reservoir being closed , the drying tubes were again connected with the laboratory tube , and dry air was drawn the eudiometer and neter while the water in the jacket surrounding them was heated to C. After some time the at the top of the barometer was closed and hot mercury poured into the reservoir .
By raising the reservoir the hot air in the eudiometer and barometer was expelled .
The reservoir was lowered until the eudiometer and barometer were empty .
As the mercury ran down , bubbles of air always rose from the sides of the tubes and from the lower tube connected with the reservoir .
The lower stopcock being closed the air remaining in the laboratory tube was allowed to pass over into the eudiometer , the laboratory tube being thus completely filled with dry mercury .
The mercury was again run up to the top of the eudiometer barometer and the air expelled , and once more the mercury was run down to extract bubbles of air sticking to the glass .
On again running up the mercury and it overflow from the barometer eudiometer all traces of air were got rid of .
The hot water in the cket w then replaced ) current of cold water from the main , running into the cylinder near the bottom and being siphoned off at the top .
In the experiments made at ordinary temperatures a drop of water was drawn into the top of the barometer and the space thus saturated with aqueous vapour , while the eudiometer remained dry .
On lowering the nercury in the two tubes , the level stood lower in the barometer than in the eudiometer by the difference of aqueous tension in the two tubes .
By comparing this difference with the vaIues given in REGNAULT'S table for the aqueous tension at the particular temperature observed , the dryness of the eudiometer was verified .
The carbonic oxide was prepared from magnesium formate by the action of sulphuric acid .
It was passed through a small wash-bottle containing a strong solution of potash , thence through a -tube containing fragments of caustic potash , and collected over hot mercury in cylinders of glass containing phosphoric oxide .
As I found that a trace of air was always introduced with the sticks of compressed oxide , I allowed the gas to stand some time in each cylinder with the oxide , and then poured it away by inclining the tube under the surface of mercury , leaving the stick of oxide in the tube .
The tubes were then filIed with the gas used in the experiments , and were used over and over again for collecting the gas without being recharged with phosphoric oxide .
The hydrogen was prepared by the electrolysis of dilute sulphuric acid , an amalgam of zinc and mercury being employed for the positive electrode .
The gas was collected and dried in the same way as the carbonic oxide .
The oxygen was prepared by heatin re-crystallised and well-dried potassic chlorate in a bent tube dipping under mercury .
The oxygen and the electrolytic gas were collected ovel mercury and dried in the same way .
After the explosion of the gases and the absorption of carbonic acid formed , the residue was exploded with an excess of oxygen , and the contraction on explosion and subsequent treatment with pot , ash observed .
The two portions of the experiment together made a complete analysis of the original mixture , which served to control the result of each part of the experiment .
In calculating the the measurement of the gases originally taken and the analysis of the residual mixture were taken to give an independent determination of the quantity of each gas burnt in the first explosion , and the mean of these two determinations was taken as the correct number .
The following table contains the results of the experiments made to test the effect of varying the length of the column of gases exploded:\mdash ; Composition of Mixture .
Carbonic oxide Hydrogen Oxygen . . . . .
21.91 11.09 IN GASES : , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
649 below a certain limit .
The lower the pressure below this limit the greater is the change produced .
The limit Varies different mixtures : when a small percentage of oxygen present the limit is higher than when the mixture is richer in oxygen .
With pressures .
excess of this limit no alteration is produced in the division of the oxygen by changes the length of the column .
To determine what is the effect produced by a change of initial pressure alone on the proportion of carbonic oxide and oxygen burnt with the same length of column and at the same temperature , a series of experiments was made with portions of one mixture , starting at the lowest pressure at which the explosion was propagated , and increasing the pressure up to 600 millims. COMPOSITION of mixture .
Carbonic oxide Hydrogen 25.50 Oxygen . . .
This mixture would not explode under 50 millims. or under 60 millims. pressnre .
It exploded under a pressure of 75 nlillims .
TABLE XII.\mdash ; Experiments at diiferent pressures .
of column milliIns .
From this table it appears that , as the pressure is increased , less carbonic oxide and more hydrogen is burnt until a pressure of about 400 millims. is reached , after which a further increase of pressure makes no diflerence in the division of the oxygen .
To establish this important more surely , a second series of experiments was performed in a similar way .
Different portions of a mixture were exploded between the lines 400 and 500 on the eudiometer , under pressures -arying from 75 millims. to 1000 millims. IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
TABLE .\mdash ; Pressures from 75 millims. to 1000 millims. Under very small p considerable erences were found in the ratio in several experiments repeated under the same conditions .
Thus under 75 millims. pressure this ratio was found to vary from to in eight experiments .
These discrepancies may partly be accounted for by errors of manipulation , for on the very small masses of gases employed at this pressure , the error of experiment becomes serious .
If the mean value of the ratios found in the several experiments made at the lower pressures be taken as correct , we see that the ratio rises very slightly as the pressure is increased from 75 millims. to 100 millims. , and then falls abruptly as the pressure is increased to 150 millims. , after which the fall is more , until at about 400 millims. the ratio becomes constant .
This result entirely confirms the series of experiments , and proves that for a mixture of carbonic electrolytic gas containing 12 per cent. of oxygen , there is a " " critical pressure ; " " below this critical pressure alterations of pressure affect the divisio of the oxygen , above it alterations of pressure have no effect .
In working at low pressures , therefore , there are two sources of variation bo be taken into account : one springing from changes of pressure , the other from changes in the length of the column of gases exploded .
We have seen above that changes in the length of the cease to have any effect on the ratio of the products of combustion , when a mixture containing 19 per cent. of oxygen is exploded under a pressure only as as 250 millims. The question arises , what is the " " critical pressul.e\ldquo ; for such a mixture ?
To determine this point a series of experiments was made at different pressures with a 1nixture of the following composition .
COMPOSITION of Mixture .
arbonic oxide . . . . .
5 Hydrogen 22.54 Oxygen TABLE XVII.\mdash ; Length of column minims .
For a mixture containing 19 per cent. of oxygen the critical pressure is about 200 millims. Now since a mixture containing 19 per cent. of oxygen was found to be unaffected by changes in the length of column under 250 millims. pressure , it seemed likely that in other mixtures changes in the length of column would cease to affect t , he division of the oxygen as soon as the critical pressure was reached .
The critical .
pressure for the mixture containing 12 per cent. of oxygen is 400 millims. The following experiments with some of this same mixture show that at this and higher pressures changes in the length of column have no effect .
TABLE XVIII.\mdash ; Pressure TABLE XIX .
\mdash ; Pressure millims. The critical pressure of a mixture may therefore be defined as the lowest pressure at which any further increase of pressure or any change in the length of the column of exploded gases ceases to affect the ratio of the products of combustion .
The critical pressure is lowered as the quantity of oxygen in the mixture increases .
These facts account the agreement of HORSTMANN'S first series of experiments IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND and those made by BUNSEN with his chain of sparks given in Table .
Although the path traversed by each flame from the point of ignition is very small in BUNSEN'S experiments compared with HORSTMANN'S , yet since the pressures employed by both experimenters were near to or above the critical pressures of the mixtures exploded , great difference in the length of column had no effect on the division of the oxygen .
The same facts also account for the disagreement between my experiments and those of BUNSEN and HORSTMANN .
For since the first ten experiments in my series were made at pressures below the critical pressure of the respective mixtures , both the lowex pressure and the longer column increase the proportion of carbonic oxide burnt .
In the four last experiments of this series the in crease in the quantity of oxygen taken brings the critical pressure below the pressure employed .
The results are in close accordance with those of BUNSEN and HORSTMANN .
A third series of pressure experiments was next made with a mixture containing only 8 per cent. of oxygen .
COMPOSITION of Carbonic oxide Hydrogen Oxygen . . . . .
This mixture would not explode under 100 lillims .
pressure .
It exploded under 125 lims .
TABLE XX.\mdash ; Length of column millims. In this series the proportion of carbonic oxide burnt increases at first ith increase of pressure , reaches a maximum , and then falls .
No pressure appeared to be reached as far as the pressure was pushed .
If the .
pressure for a mixture containing only 8 per cent. of oxygen is above 1000 millims. , it follows that under this pressure a in the length of column will affect the of the oxgyen .
The following experiments , in which some of the same mixture was exploded under 1000 millims. with a short column , prove this to be the case .
.\mdash ; Pressure millims. 4$ .
As the general result of these pressure iments , it appeared that the law of mass might be tested by the incomplete combustions of carbonic oxide and hydrogen , provided that each mixture of gases was exploded above its critical pressure .
It will , perhaps , be most convenient , before proceeding to descr.ibe the experiments made with this view , to give here an account of HORSTMANN'S second paper , which advanced the inquiry another HORSTMANN'S experiments .
having shown that no sudden alterations occur in the ratio of carbonic acid and water produced by the combustion of carbonic oxide and electrolytic gas mixed in various proportions , and that BUNSEN'S earlier experiments were vitiated by the presence of varying proportions of aqueous vapour in the eudiometer , proceeded to repeat .
MEYER'S experiments , in which mixtures of carbonic oxide and hydrogen were exploded with successively increasing quantities of oxygen .
HORSTMANN found in these experiments that , for a given mixture of carbonic oxide and hydrogen , the proportion of carbonic acid formed gradually diminishes at first with increase of oxygen , reaches a minimum when between 30 and 40 per cent. of the combustible gases is burnt , and then gradually increases towards the limit that would be reached if all the gases are burnt .
Nowhere did he find any alteration per in the proportion of the products of combustion .
But an examination of the numbers given by these experiments led HORSTMANN to detect a remarkable relation between the ratio of the unburnt carbonic oxide to the unburnt hydrogen , and the ratio of the burnt carbonic oxide to the burnt hydrogen .
He found that when mixtures of carbonio oxide and hydrogen in any proportions are exploded with the same quantity of oxygen , the ratio between the quantities of the two gases burnt is proportional to the ratio between the quantities of the two gases left unburnt .
Thus , if A and are the quantities of carbonic oxide and hydrogen in any mixture exploded with a certain quantity of oxygen , then the quantity of carbonic acid formed and the quantity of steam formed ( b ) are given by the equation where is a constant depending on the quantity of oxygen taken . .
des Heidelb .
naturf .
med .
Vereins .
, N.S. II .
, 1 ; LIEBIG'S Annalen , 190-228 .
( i56 MR. H. B. ON CONDITIONS OF CHEMTCAL CHANGE A glance at the last column in this table shows that for equal quantities of oxygen , HORSTMANN'S coefficient of affinity is fairly constant : in the third , fiftb , and sixth sets the extreme values differ by about 20 per cent. ; the other sets show a better nent .
In a later paper HORSTMANN gives the following table of the coefficients of affinity corresponding to different percentages of the combustible gases burnt .
TABLE XXIIT.\mdash ; HORSrMANN'S new table of coefficients .
burntag fustible The alteration in the coefficient of affinity , with increase of oxygen , HORSTMANN attributes ( 1 ) to the increased temperature of combustion , and ( 2 ) to the alteration of pressure and physical characteristics of the whole mixture produced by the combustion .
He was led to this conclusion by the following experiments : Different mixtures of hydrogen and carbonic oxide were exploded with air .
In each experiment , therefore , a certain quantity of nitrogen was present .
The " " coefficients of affinity\ldquo ; were found to agree approximately with those previously obtained in explosions with mixtures the same percentage of oxygen , and not with mixtures containing the same relative proportion of oxygen and combustible gases .
For instar1ce , 100 volumes of carbonic oxide and hydrogen were mixed with 76 volumes ofair containing 16 volumes of oxygen .
In the explosion , therefore , 32 per cent. of the combustible gases is burnt , but only 20 per cent. of the mixture of carbonic oxide , hydrogen , and nitrogen .
From the previous experiments the coefficient of affinity corresponding to a combustion of 32 per cent. is , and for a combu , qtion of 20 per cent. it is .
The coefficient found is IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC , AND OXYGEN .
itrogenof cbonic oeand hburnt gumes o These coincidences , HORSTMANN considel .
S , prove that the presence of the nitrogen affects the coefficient in the same way as the presence of equal quantity of carbonic oxide or hydrogen , and point to the conclusion that the constancy of the coefficient of affinity in the different experiments depends upon a similarity of physical conditions .
In two later papers has shown that when carbonic acid is added to the mixture previous to explosion , more hydrogen and less carbonic oxide is burnt than en the mixture is fired without carbonic acid .
When a mixture of carbonic acid and hydrogen is exploded with insufficient oxygen to burn all the hydrogen some of the carbonic acid is rednced to carbonic oxide .
The influence of carbonic acid , he says , is not the same as that of nitrogen , but resembles it ; direct experiments show that ib is impossible to replace ) excess of combustible gases in part by } , rbonic acid , without altering the coefficient of affinity .
Carbonic acid , which has a higher specific heat than the simpler fies , produces a greater effect than an equal volume of nitrogen , hydrogen , or carbonic oxide .
This fact confirms the earlier conclusion that the coefficient not only depends upon the percentage of oxygen , but also on t , he temperature of combustion .
Steam acts in a manner analogous to carbonic acid .
Such are HORSTMANN'S conclusions as to the function of inert gases in the explosiye mixture .
But in one paragraph he vlews the reaction in a different light:\mdash ; " " The burning appears as a preliminary of secondary importance , through which ] are established the conditions antecedent to the reactions particularly into consideration .
The chemical equilibrium is brought about by the two reciprocal transformations between carbonic acid and hydrogen on the one hand , and carbonlc oxide .
Deut .
Ch. Ges .
, , 1628 ; , 64 .
MR. H. B. DIXON ON CONDITIONS OF CHEMICAL CHANGE and steam on the other , which can take place at the high temperature produced by the combustion This view of the final result of reaction , which appears to me to be substantially correct , seems difficult to reconcile with HORSTMANN'S previous conclusions as to the function of nitrogen and carbonic acid in the explosive mixture .
For ifthe final result depends upon an equilibrium being established between the reduction of the carbonic acid by the hydrogen and the oxidation of the carbonic oxide by the steam , how is it possible for nitrogen to take the place , and play the part , of an equal quantity of drogen or carbonic oxide ?
The following is HORSTMANN'S conclusions with regard to the variation of the coefficient with the percentage of oxygen taken:\mdash ; " " The coefficient is dependent alone upon the temperature .
The influence of the temperature is of a complicated kind .
A portion of the carbonic acid and steam is dissociated at the temperature reached .
As the temperature sinks , the equilibrium alters with it .
The composition of the mixture corresponds therefore to an equilibrium for some unknown middle value between the temperature of combustion , which varies with the composition of the mixture , and the lower limit of temperature , at which the mutual action of the gases is just possible .
This lower limit of temperature is the same with all mixtures From his latest experiments ( not yet published ) concludes that the values of the coefficient , which by the earlier experiments fell between 4 and 7 , may be much lower at low temperatures : for the lowest temperatures even less than 1 .
This shows that , contrary to what is found at high temperatures , the affinity of oxygen for carbonic oxide at ] temperatures is greater than for hydrogen ; a result which confirms the statement of E. von MEYER that in the slow combustion effected by atinum at more carbonic oxide is burnt than hydrogen .
I shall show later that the proportionality discovered by HORSTMANN between Jatios of the unburnt gases and the products of combustion is a fact independent of the percentage of combustible gases burnt , and dependent only on the conditions ( 1 ) that a sufficiently high temperature should be reached in the explosion , ( 2 ) that none of the reacting molecules should be withdrawn from the sphere of action during the chemical change , and ( 3 ) that no indifferent gas should be present .
with dry gases above the critical pressure .
To test the accuracy of HORSTMANN'S conclusions , the following experiments were made with dry gases exploded at high pressnres .
A dry mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen and a dry ltlixture of hydrogen and oxygen , each containing per cent. of oxygen , were made .
Varying proportions of each of these mixtures were brought together in the eudiometer and exploded under 1000 millims. pressure .
In these experiments the ratio of carbonic oxide and hydrogen is varied ; about per cent. of oxygen is employed in each case ; and the pressure is such that no increase of pressure or variation in the length of column makes any difference in for .
These values are given in the last column of the table .
The mean of the sevon experiments gives .
From this mean value the quantity of hydrogen and carbonic oxide burnt in any given mixture can be calculated .
In the following table the quantities of hydrogen burnt , calculated for the mixtures employed in then experiments , are compared with those actually observed .
TABLE XXVI.\mdash ; Volume of hydrogen burnt .
According to this theory , the chemical changes vary as the explosion proceeds .
The explosion starts with the direct union of oxygen and hydrogen , the change proceeding until all the oxygen is converted into steam , according to equa , tion ( 1 ) ; as soon as steam is formed by this union it begins to oxidize the carbonic acid , according to equation ( 3 ) ; the carbonic acid so produced is in turn reduced to carbonic oxide by free hydrogen , according to equation ( 4 ) .
The heat developed by the direct union of the oxygen and raises the whole body of the gases to incandescence .
After all the oxygen is converted into steam , four gases remain at a bigh- .
temperature\mdash ; and steam , carbonic oxide and carbonic acid .
Of these four gases , one pair , hydrogen and carbonic acid , react at the high temperature to form the other pair , steam and carbonic oxide ; but steam and carbonic oxide themselves react to form the first pair , and carbonic acid , so that two reverse changes take place simultaneously in the mixture .
The quantity of each pair present at any moment during the reaction depends on the relative rates at which the two changes proceed .
Possibly these rates may vary with the temperature as the whole body of gases cools down .
The quantities actually measured are those in equilibrium at the moment the gases cool to the ternperature at which the tion ceases .
But since in the fall from the highest temperature reached in any explosion to the lowest at which reaction occurs there is a large range of cooling common to all the experiments , the relative rate of the two changes observed is in all cases that which is found under similar conditions of According to HORSTMANN the coefficient varies with the proportion of oxygen employed , at first increasing with the increase of oxygen , reaching a maximum when from 15 to 20 volumes of oxygen are mixed with 100 of the combustible gases , and finally diminishing gradually as the oxygen is increased beyond this point .
The volume of oxygen added to 100 volumes of the combustible gases was in IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
to .
The cause of the change must be sought in some condition present up to and absent at higher temperatures .
There is such a condition\mdash ; the condensation of the steam by the sides of the vessel during the progress of the chemical change .
By this condensation one of the reacting bodies is removed from the sphere ofaction .
If we conceive the to be composed of a vast number of molecules moving in straight lines and coming into collision one with another and with the sides of the vessel , and that an appreciable time elapses during which the gaeseous molecules are in sufficiently rapid motion to change atoms when they come into collision , then it must happen that while the change is proceeding a number of steam molecules strike the sides of the vessel .
Now a vapour diffused through a gaseous mixture is condensed to a liquid by a cool surface when the pressure of the vapour in the mixture is greater than the tension exerted by the liquid at the temperature of the cool surface .
On the contrary , when the surface is at such a temperature that a liquid film upon it exerts a tension greater than the pressure of the vapour of that liquid present in the atmosphere in contact with it , the liquid izes from the surface .
Under the latter conditions no vapour would be condensed from a gaseous mixture .
For a surface at a given temperature , condensation depends upon the tension of the vapour in the mixture , and for a given tension of the vapour , condensation depends on the temperature of the surface .
These facts permit the question to be readily tested by experiment .
In the first series of temperature experiments , if be taken as the constant coefficient at high temperatures , then in the last experiment the tension of the steam formed by the unimpeded reaction would be 162 millims. at At this temperature the tension exerted by a film of water is about 150 millims. During the explosion , therefore , the sides of the vessel might condense a small quantity of steam , and the coefficient might in consequence be slightly raised .
In the previous experiment at , the tension of steam formed by the unimpeded reaction would still be 162 millims. at ; but at this temperature the tension exerted by a film of water is only 55 millims. So that a considerable condensation might take place , and the coefficient be considerably raised .
At lower temperatures the effect would be greater still .
In the same way , if be taken as the constant coefficient in the second series of temperature experiments , then in the second , third , fourth , and fifth experiments the tension of steam formed by the unimpeded reaction would be ] 52 millims. at , and respectively .
At the maximum tension of aqueous vapour is 355 millims. , so that at and at higher temperatures no condensation could take place ; but at a slight condensation might occur .
The two series of experiments show therefore that the coefficient remains constant when no condensation is possible during the reaction : with decrease of initial temperature the coefficient begins to increase as soon as condensation becomes possible .
Similarly in the third series of experiments , if we take 4 as the constant coefficient , no condensation could take place at or higher temperatures ; at some condensation might occur .
The coefficient begins to increase IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
change in the quantity of oxygen added from 16 to 26 made no difference in the coefficient , when the mixtures were exploded at l00o , and above the critical pressure .
The following table contains the results of these experiments .
TABLE XLIII.\mdash ; Pressure millims. With another portion of the third mixture , contaimng about 26 per cent. of oxygen , an explosion was made under 1000 millims. pressure at C. The tension of the steam formed in the unimpeded reaction being 451 millims. , and the maximum tension of aqueous vapour being only ) millims. at , it follows that condensation of steam should occur during the explosion at the lower temperature .
The coefficient was found to be .
a result which confirms the previous experiments made on condensation .
TABLE XLIV.\mdash ; Pressure millims. When a dry mixture of carbonic oxide and hydrogen is exploded with 12 to 15 per cent. of oxygen , at a pressure greater than the critical , and at a temperatnre iently high to prevent any condensation of steam , the coefficient found to be 4 wheu the hydrogen is equal to or greater than the carbonic oxide , but when the carbonic oxide is three times the hydrogen .
This difference I believe to be due to the fact that carbonic oxide and oxygen , under the conditions of these experiments , are incapable of direct combination , so that when the volume of hydrogen taken is less than double the of the oxygen , there is present during a part of the reaction an excess of oxygen chenically indifferent to the three other gases present\mdash ; steam , carbonic oxide , and carbonic acid .
For instance , in the last three experiments of Table XL .
, where parts of were exploded with of carbonic oxide , and 267 ofhydrogen , there was only sufficient hydrogen to burn at once parts of oxygen ; now , supposing the hydrogen to been all burnt at once , then the other 42 parts of oxygen had to wait until the corresponding quantity of steam , formed at first , had been decomposed by the carbonic oxide .
Of course the steam produced at first immediately began to react with the carbonic oxide , but owing to the deficiency of hydrogen , the rate of formation of steam was limited , during a considerable portion of the reaction , by the rate of formation of acid through the double decolnposition of steam and carbonic oxide .
The intensity of the reaction was thus diminished .
Now the presence of an inert gas , such as nitrogen , is found to affect the coefficient in the same way .
To a mixture containing about three times as much hydrogen as carbonic oxide and some 14 per cent. of oxygen , was added about two-thirds its volume of nitrogen .
When this mixture was exploded under 1000 millims. pressure at C. , the coefficient was found to be , A similar mixture without the addition of nitrogen gave 4 for the coefficient under the same oonditions .
TABLE XLV.\mdash ; Pressure millims. Mixture w The diminution in intensity produced by the presence of the inert nitrogen favours the formation of carbonic acid in preference to steam in the explosion .
If the fall of the coefficient from 4 to 37 is due to the presence of inert oxygen during a portion of the reaction , it will follow that , so long as the oxygen employed is not more than half the hydrogen , the coefficient will remain normal whatever be the proportions of carbonic oxide and hydrogen present ; but whenever the oxygen is more than half the hydrogen the coefficient will fall .
The change of the coefficient will not be abrupt , but the chief gradient will occur at the point when the hydrogen is double the oxygen .
This explanation can therefore be readily tested experimentally .
Two mixtures were made ; one of carbonic oxide and oxygen , the other of hydrogen and oxygen\mdash ; both containing the same percentage of oxygen .
Varying proportions of these two mixtures were brought together in the eudiometer and exploded at a high temperature , and at a pressure greater than the critical pressure .
It was found that when the.hydrogen abscissae are parts of carbonic oxide in 1000 of the combustible gases , the ordinates are the coefficients found .
The continuous curve is drawn through the coefficients given by the mixtures with parts of oxygen .
The vertical line shows the point where the hydrogen is just twice the oxygen in the first series .
The dotted curve is drawn through the coefficients given by the mixture with parts of oxygen .
The vertical line shows the point where the hydrogen is just twice the oxygen in the second series .
General conclusions . .
BUNSEN'S original experiments on the incomplete combustion of carbonic oxide and hydrogen are vitiated by the presence of aqueous vapour in the eudiometer .
Both HORSTMANN'S experiments and my own show that no alteration per sattum occurs in the ratio of the products of combustion .
2 .
A mixture of dry carbonic oxide and oxygen does not explode when an electric spark is passed through it .
The union of carbonic oxide and oxygen is effected indirectly by steam .
A mere trace of steam renders a mixture of oxygen and carbonic oxide explosive .
The steam undergoes a series of alternate reductions and oxidations , acting as a carrier of oxygen to the carbonic oxide .
With a very small quantity of steam the oxidation of carbonic oxide takes place slowly .
As the quantity of steam is increased the rapidity of the explosion increases .
3 .
When a mixture of dry carbonic oxide and hydrogen is exploded with a quantity of oxygen insufficient for complete combustion , the ratio of the carbonic acid to steam formed , depends on the shape of the vessel and the pressure under which the gases are fired .
By continually increasing the initial pressure a point is reached where no further increase in the pressure affects the products of the reaction .
At and above this " " critical pressure\ldquo ; the result is independent of the shape of the vessel .
The larger the quantity of oxygen used the lower the " " critical pressure\ldquo ; is found to be .
4 .
When dry mixtures of carbonic oxide and hydrogen in varying proportions are exploded above the " " critical pressure\ldquo ; with oxygen insufficient for compJete combustion , an equilibrium is established between two opposite chemical changes represented by the equations IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
( 2 ) So that at the end of the reaction the product of the carbonic oxide and steam molecules is equal to the product of the carbonic acid and hydrogen molecules multiplied by \ldquo ; coefficient of affinity This result agrees with HORSTMANN'S oonclusion ; but HORSTMANN considels the coefficient to vary with the relative mass of oxygen taken .
5 .
A small difference in the initial temperature at wluch the gases are fired makes a considerable difference in the products of the reaction .
This difference is due to the condensation of steam by the sides of the during the explosion , and its consequent removal from the sphere of action during the chemical change .
When the gases are exploded at a temperature sufficiently high to prevent any condensation of steam during the progress of the reaction , the coefficient is found to be constant whatever the quantity of oxygen used , ' provided that the hydrogen is more than double the oxygen .
6 .
The presence of an inert such as nitrogen , by diminishing the intensity of the reaction vours the formation of carbonic acid in preference to steam .
When the hydrogen is less than double the oxygen the excess of oxygen cannot react with any of the three other gases present\mdash ; carbonic oxide , carbonic acid , and steam\mdash ; but has to wait until an equal volume of steam is reduced to hydrogen by the carbonic oxide .
The excess of inert oxygen has the same effect as the inert nitrogen in favouring the formation of carbonic acid .
The variations in the coefficient of affinity found by HORSTMANN with different quantities of oxygen are due partly to this cause , but chiefly to the varying amounts of steam condensed by the cold eudiometer during the reaction in different experiments .
7 .
As the general result of these experiments , it has been shown that when a mixture of carbonic oxide and hydrogen is exploded with insufficicnt oxygen for complete combustion , at a temperature at which no condensation of steam can take place during the reaction , and at a pressure greater than the critical pressure , an equilibrium between two opposite changes is established , which is independent of the quantity of oxygen taken , so long as this quantity is less than half the hydrogen .
Within the limits marked out above , the law of mass is completely verified for the gaseous system composed of carbonic oxide , carbonic acid , hydrogen , and steam at a high temperature .
The experiments in this -per were made partly in the laboratory of Christ Church , and partly in the laboratory of College , Oxford .
I desire to express my sincere thanks to Mr. A. G. VERNON HARCOURT and to Mr. W. ESSON for their constant help and advice in all stages of the inquiry , and to the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society for giving me the leisure and the appliances to complete this research .
References .
HENRY , W. , M.D. , F.R.S. " " On the Action of Finely Divided Platinum on Gaseous Mixtures , and its Application to their Analysis Phil. Trans. , 1824 , p. 266 .
BUNSEN .
" " Untersuchumgen uber die Cbemische Verwandtschaft LIEB .
Ann. , lxxxv .
, p. 137 , 1853 .
Gasometr .
Meth .
, 2nd ed. , p. 353 .
MEYER , ERNST v. ( 1 ) " " Ueber die unvollkommene Verbrennun g von Gasen , und die bei derselben sich aussernden Wirkungen der Affinitat Journ. prakt .
Chem. [ 2 ] x. , p. 273 , 1874 .
( 2 ) " " Ueber die bei der langsamen Oxydation des Wasserstoffes und Kohlenoxyds mittelst Platin sich aussernden Affinitatswirkungen Jom.n .
prakt .
Chem. [ 2 ] , xiii .
, p. 121 , 1876 .
( 3 ) " " Ueber die unvollkommene Verbrennung in WasserstoffkohlenoxydGemischen Journ. prakt .
Chem. [ 2 ] , xviii .
, p. 290 , 1878 .
MEYER , LOTHAR , " " Ueber unvollkommene Verbrennung Ber .
d. deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
, x. , p. 2117 , 1877 .
LONG , J. H. " " Ueber die Einwirkung von Wasserdampf auf gluhende Holzkohle LIEB .
Ann. , 192 , p. 288 , 1878 .
HORSTMANN , AUG .
" " Ueber die relative Verwandtschaft des Sauerstoffs zu Wassexstoff und Kohlenoxyd LIEB .
Ann. , 190 , p. 228 , 1878 .
Ber .
d. deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
, x. , p. 1626 , 1877 .
Ber .
d. deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
, xii .
, p. 64 , 1879 .
HEMPEL , WALTHER .
" " Die fractionirte Verbrermung von Wasserstoff und Sumpfgas Ber .
d. deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
, xu p. 1006 , 1879 .
DIXON , H. B. " " The Influence of Water on the Union of Carbonic Oxide with Oxygen at a High Temperature British Assoc. Report , , 503 ; 'Chemical News , ' xcvi .
, 151 .
BoTSCH , K. " " Unvollstandige Verbrennung von Gasen LIEB .
Ann. , 210 , p. 207 , 1881 .
1 .
In the following tables the actual numbers obtained in each analysis are given\mdash ; beginning with those ised in Table VIII .
of the paper\mdash ; in which the pressure of the gases at explosion was observed .
The first column gives the reference number .
In the three next columns the percentage composition of the gas is given , as determined by mixture or analysis previous to each experiment .
The next two columns give the pressure ( P ) and bhe temperature ( T ) of the gases just before the spark was passed .
In the seventh and succeeding columns are given the volumes reduced to cubic centimetres at C. and 760 millims. before the explosion , after the explosion , after absorption with potash , after addition of excess of oxygen , after explosion , and stly .
after absorption with potash .
IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC OXIDE , AND OXYGEN .
By the two explosions and absorptions a complete analysis of the mixture is made .
The second part of the operation not only serves to control the whole , but gives a second independent value for the amount of hydrogen and carbonic oxide burnt in the first explosion .
By subtracting the quantity of hydrogen burnt in the second explosion from the quantity of hydrogen originally measured , a number is obtained which should be identical with the quantity of steam formed in the first explosion\mdash ; if no experimental error occurred .
In the column under\ldquo ; found\ldquo ; is given the quantity of hydrogen burnt in the first explosion as directly determined by the contraction and absorption ; in the column under\ldquo ; calculated\ldquo ; is given the quantity of hydrogen burnt in the first explosion as calculated from the quantity originally measured and that found in the second explosion .
The mean between these two numbers is taken as the correct quantity of hydrogen burnt in the first explosion .
Exactly in the same way the mean between the and the calculated quantity of carbonic oxide burnt is taken as the correct quantity .
From the numbers given the entire analysis may be calculated out in the following way : \mdash ; No. 1 .
COMPOSITION of mixture .
Carbonic oxide Hydrogen Oxygen . . . .
67.10 21.91 11.09 VOLUMES reduced to C. and 760 millims. Cub. centims. Volume of mixture taken .
after explosion .
absorption , , addition of oxygen explosion .
, , absorption 7.83 \ldquo ; First contraction First absorption Second Second , , By first explosion and absorption:\mdash ; Oxygen , Hydrogen , Carboni oxide By second explosion and absorption:\mdash ; Hydrogen , Carbonic oxide Total hydrogen , Total rbonic oxide ) Note on the preceding Paper .
W. ESSON , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Merton College , Oxford .
IN January , 1882 , Mr. DIXON sent to me the results of the experiments recorded on p. 659 of the preceding memoir , and asked me to discover if I could the relation between the quantities of the gases at the beginning and end of the explosion .
The facts already discovered by Mr. DIXON ( 1 ) that the union of carbonic oxide and oxygen does not take place except in the presence of steam , and ( 2 ) that carbonic oxide is oxidized by steam at a high temperature , led me to conjecture that the first effect of the explosion was to combine all the oxygen present with the proper amount of hydrogen to form steam .
An action was then set up between the steam and carbonic oxide resulting in the formation of hydrogen and carbonic acid , and IN GASES : HYDROGEN , CARBONIC , AND OXYGEN .
simultaneously a reverse action took place between the hydrogen and carbonic acid resulting in the formation of steam and carbonic oxide .
Finally an equilibrium was established between the action and reverse action when the amount of each per of time was equal to that of the other .
In a paper by Mr. and myself , communicated to the Royal Society in November , 1865 Transactions , , it is shown that the amoumt of action per unit of time between two substances is proportional to the quantity of each substance .
In the course of a hitherto unpublished investigation on the reaction of hydrogen iodide and peroxide a case of equilibrium occurred in November , 1865 , precisely analogous to the present case , and admitting of the same explanation .
The two cases are represented by the chemical equations ( 1 ) ( 2 ) If in general are substances according to the chemical equation and if are the ties of respectively in an unit of volume , the amount of the first action per unit of time is , and the amount of the second action per of time is , so that when is blished In the present case , if , CO , ) , represent the quantities per unit of volume of steam , carbonic oxide , hydrogen , and carbonic acid respectively , the ratio of to is a ratio independent of the quantities of substance taking part in the reaction , and depending only upon the conditions of temperature , pressure , \amp ; c. In the experiments which Mr. DIXON submitted to me this constant is 5 , and on p. 660 the numbers calculated on this hypothesis compared with those actually found .
The calculation of the steam and carbonic acid ultimately remaining ) the explosion of given quantities of hydrogen , corbormc oxide , and oxygen is ted in the following way : \mdash ; Let be the original quantities of hydrogen , carbonic oxide ( CO ) , and oxygen respectively , and the ultimate quantity of steam , then the 684 MR. H. B. DIXON ON CONDITIONS OF CHEMICAh CHANGE IN GASES .
quantities of carbonic oxide , hydrogen , and carbonic acid are respectively , hence if : or the lesser roob of t , his quadratic is the amount of steam , and is the amount of carbonic acid after the explosion .
In the experiments recorded on p. 659 , and has values varying from to .
The quadratic in the case of the experiment in which is the lesser root of which is

