156 E. Nunn .
On the Development of [ June 15 animals , while the same fluids unheated , are invariably and fatally infective in infinitely smaller quantities .
In Davaine 's septichaemia in the rabbit , I have found throughout these experiments that the period of incubation is remarkably constant death , after the fii'st generation of infection by putrid blood , almost invariably occurring from about twenty to twenty-five hours , and consequently that if it does not occur within about that period , it may be concluded that infection has failed ; it may die subsequently , as rabbits in confinement constantly do , more especially under the conditions in which they are kept in laboratories ; but unless within about the period specified they do not die infected with specific septichsemia , the characteristic organisms are not found in the blood , nor is that blood infective ; hence it is not necessary to observe such animals for more than a few days after inoculation .
These experiments were conducted in the laboratory at University College , with the co-operation of Dr. Burdon Sanderson , and at his suggestion .
XVII .
" On the Development of the Enamel of the Teeth of Vertebrates .
" By Emily Nunn .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , F.R.S. Received June 14 , 1882 .
[ Pl/ ATES 2-4 .
] The question of the origin of the enamel of the teeth in vertebrate animals has been the subject of much discussion .
It has been held\#151 ; 1st , that the enamel results from the calcification of the enamel cells ( Tomes , Waldeyer , Edwards ) ; 2nd , that it is formed by excretion from those cells ( Kolliker , Hertwig , Leydig ) ; and , 3rd , that it is not formed by these cells at all , but has the same origin as the dentine , whatever that may be.* Again , there are numerous opinions concerning the nature and origin of the cuticula dentis:\#151 ; 1 , that the cuticula is the persistent basement membrane itself ( Huxley , Hertwig , Leydig ) ; 2 , that it is the altered enamel membrane ; 3 , that it is the external layer of cells of the enamel organ ( W aldeyer ) ; 4 , that it is the metamorphosed stratum intermedium of the enamel organ ( Lowe ) ; 5 , that it is the ends ( Decheln ) of the cells of the enamel membrane ( Kollman ) ; 6 , that it is a dermic structure ( Tomes ) ; 7 , that it is an excretion of the cells of the enamel membrane ( Kolliker ) .
* Huxley , " Tegumentary Organs , " " Encyclopaedia of Anat .
and Phys. , " vol. vr Sup .
, gives reasons for considering the whole tooth ecderonic , but adds , " All these points can only be decided by a much more extensive series of investigations .
" jfcgg.l the Enamel of the Teeth of Vertebrates .
157 The existence o\#163 ; \#187 ; basement membrane or memlrana pra\gt ; formatma , \#171 ; id by some to cover the tooth papilla , is generally conmdered lubtfnl .
It is asserted , 1st , that the newly-formed layer of enamel ZTbeen mistaken for it ( Waldeyer ) ; 2 , that the first-formed layer of dentine has been mistaken for it ( Lowe ) ; 3 , that the " appearances described are capable of a different interpretation ( Tomes ) .
The present investigation was nndertaken at the suggestion of Professor Hnxley with the hope of determining\#151 ; or at least of getting more ' light upon\#151 ; firstly , the history of the varions membranes the onticnla dentis , the so-called newly-formed layer of enamel , the membrane prteformativa , and the first-formed layer of dentme ; secondly , the origin of the enamel .
, , The present paper gives the results which have been arrived at jconcerning these points . .
^ The nature of dentine will form the subject of a second paper .
Since it is well established that the teeth and placoids of the Plagiostomi are homologous with the teeth of the higher vertebrates , illustrations from these will be nsed as well as from mammalian teeth , adult and embryonic . .
, The drawings described have been made by the aid of the camera .
1 .
The CutieulcuDentis.\#151 ; A membrane covering the enamel of young teeth has been repeatedly described as homogeneous and reticulated , or with " zellzeichnungen , " supposed to have been made by adjoining cells .
Hnxley* says of this membrane : " It is perfectly clear and transparent , and under a high power exhibits innumerable little ridges upon its outer surface , which bound spaces sometimes oval , sometimes quadrangular , and about tfoo an mcla m diame*\#174 ; r In the frog its surface is in parts reticulated as in man , m \#174 ; mackerel and skate I have been unable to find any such reticulation In the calf a similar membrane may be demonstrated , but it is much more delicate , and I have not seen the peculiar areolae on its surface .
' This account agrees with the description given by other writers of a membrane found lying upon the enamel , as also with my own observations .
The membrane , then , may be reticulated , entirely , in parts only , or not at all .
It varies in thickness in the same animal , and as well as in different animals , and may be thick or delicate .
It has been found by myself , as well as by other observers , upon the young tooth , both before and after its eruption .
Hitherto it has not been figured , t neither has its history been determined ; hence the various opinions as to its nature and origin .
Waldeyer J declared it to be the newly* Huxley , 11 Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science , 18o3 , pp. 157 , 158 .
+ A drawing , by Nasmyth , has since been found , of the inner surface of this membrane , showing the impressions of the enamel prisms .
J Waldeyer , " Handbuch , " 1869 .
E. Nunn .
On the Development of [ June 15 formed layer of enamel .
Huxley* considered it as the persistent basement membrane .
Fig. 1 , A , PI .
2 , is a drawing en face of this membrane as seen upon the molar of a young rabbit : it was taken from the tooth below the gum .
The areola ?
, upon its outer surface , were perfectly clear and transparent , as has been described , and a side view ( fig. 1 , B ) showed them to be elevated into ridges .
But the spaces or disks which they bounded were granular and were found to stain slightly with carmine .
In this preparation they were round , but in some they are distinctly polygonal , while in others they are faintly seen and their outlines cannot be definitely traced .
In the part of this membrane exposed above the gum , which appeared perfectly homogeneous , they could not be detected at all .
While this membrane still covers the embryonic tooth " it may be that a few of the elongated cells of the organon adamantines adhere to it."f This may be the case even when the membrane has been well washed with a camel-hair brush previously to being hardened , as in fig. 1 , B. This preparation clearly shows the reticulation to correspond in position to the cell-wall of the overlying cells and the enclosed spaces to the protoplasmic contents .
The different structure of the clear colourless glassy areolae and the granular slightly coloured disks , proves the reticulation to be something more than the impression of adjoining cells , as it has been described to be .
The frequently granular character of the disks is rarely so distinct as in the present preparation , generally requiring a high power of the microscope for its demonstration , and it seems previously to have escaped observation .
The ridges , always upon the outer surface of the membrane , appear to be the walls of the cells , broken off a little above the extreme end of the cell , and in many preparations they occupy a larger relative space in the membrane than is shown in fig. 1 .
It would seem as if the cell-wall were thickening about this end of the cell , or the protoplasm were undergoing a differentiation into a substance similar to cell-wall .
The ends of the cells of the overlying enamel membrane frequently appear jagged ( fig. 2 ) , as also the surface of the membrane directed toward them , while its other surface , or that directed towards the enamel , is perfectly smooth , as is the case with the surface of the enamel , when the tooth has been sufficiently carefully and gradually decalcified .
In the upper part of fig. 2 , where the tissues have not been separated , no membrane can be detected , the line between enamel cells and membrane not being a sharp one ; but when the former are torn away , the latter is isolated ( fig. 2 , c ) , and a front view showed it to have the appearance of fig. 1 , save that the disks are polygonal ( fig. 2 , B ) .
A similar structure on the tooth of the thornback is shown in fig. 3. .
* Huxley , l.c. f Huxley , l.c. p. 157 .
15\#163 ; 1882 ] .
Enamel of the Teeth Vertebrates .
Here , as is frequently the case , the ends of the cells appear broken or vacuolated , or striated , and with high power the striae can be distinctly seen in transverse section on the edge of the membrane , which in all stages , being much more tenacious than the enamel cells , generally adheres to the enamel when the cells are removed , and may be raised up by the use of acid .
As a rule , the older the tooth the more completely the reticulations or the cell-markings are obliterated , and the more resisting is the membrane , so that by maceration , as well as by the help of an acid , it may be taken off entire from the surface of the young tooth .
It has been isolated by myself in this way , as also by Hertwig , who asserts it to be the " derb " basement membrane , and the " zellzdichnungen " upon it to be simply the impressions of adjoin-ing cells .
Preparations similar to fig. 3 clearly disprove this , and the basement membrane , when it can be demonstrated , is far from a " derb " structure , as will be shown further on .
Kolliker* says\#151 ; " The ends of the enamel cells taken from the enamel present different appearances .
Some are simply cut off squarely , others possess smaller ( myself , Hertz ) or larger ( Waldeyer ) clear layers of the same breadth as the cells ( the enamel fibres in process of formation ) , still others , finally , hava pointed ends , with or without such layers ( Tomes , Waldeyer , Hertz ) .
I consider these ends , which I also have seen , as artificial products\#151 ; that is , as accidentally detached parts of the yet unfinished enamel fibres .
" If Kolliker had seen them on the firm dense membrane , as in fig. 3 , or fig. 2 , he could not have held this opinion .
An extended and careful study leaves no room for doubt that this membrane , forming in many cases the cuticula of placoids and the cuticula dentis of both mammalia and fishes , is made by the metamorphosed ends of the enamel cells .
But the cuticula has not always precisely this structure either upon the tooth or on the placoid ; apparently more or less of the so-called enamel cells may enter into its formation .
This , at least , is certain , the cuticla , or " Schmelz oberhautchen , " may not only have upon its surface the " cell markings , " but it may be formed of entire cells ( or at least of enough to include the nuclei ) which have undergone a greater or less differentiation into horny tissue , obscuring more or less completely the outlines of the nuclei .
Such a cuticula is shown in situ on the placoid represented .in fig. 4 .
It is entire upon the under surface of the scute , which is more protected ; upon the upper side fragments only are left .
A high immersion lens showed distinctly on parts of the membrane , the outlines of cells and their nuclei ( fig. 5 ) and the membrane could be traced into the columnar layer of epithelial cells at the base of the spine .
The cuticula of the mammalian tooth has several times been found * Kolliker , " Handbuch der Gewebelehre , " p. 385 .
E. Nunn .
On the Development of [ June 15 to have the same structure , and it has been possible , in transverse and longitudinal sections , to trace the gradual transition of the enamel cells into a perfectly homogeneous membrane ( figs. 6 and 7 , Plate 3 ) , the cylindrical cells growing shorter as they approach the crown of the tooth , until , instead of being columnar , they are almost square , and finally flattened , and at last the outlines of the cells quite disappear , and there is left a perfectly homogeneous membrane .
These changes are not easy to follow ; in many preparations it is impossible to make anything out , and the drawings have been made from most fortunate preparations selected from some thousands of sections prepared in various ways .
The cuticula dentis , then , is formed by the metamorphosis of more .or less of the enamel cells , and this metamorphosis may begin before any calcification of the underlying dental tissues .
In this stage it has been frequently taken for the " newly-formed layer of enamel , " for the " basement membrane , " and for the " first-formed layer of dentine .
" 2 .
The Basement Membrane and Membrana Prceformativa .
The mucous membrane of the Plagiostomes immediately under the epithelium is frequently more or less laminated , and one of these laminae bounding the surface of the mucosa has often been described as the " derb " basement membrane .
But being only the cuter one of a series of laminse , it represents the basement membrane as simply the margin of the mucosa , with no definite and special structure of its own .
In order to get at the special structure of the surface of the derma supposed to be bounded by a basement membrane , it is well first to examine portions which have a cellular rather than a distinctly laminated structure , and it is absolutely necessary that the sections should be perfectly vertical to the surface of the derma , the study of which will be much facilitated if the epithelial cells have , for the most part , been previously w ; ashed away .
Fig. 8 is a vertical section of the dermis and of the base of a young tooth of the skate .
The section being very thin and perfectly vertical , the structure of the cellular granular dermis stands out in strong \#166 ; contrast to the perfectly clear and dense basement membrane , brought into even greater relief by the cleft ( cl. ) , and by its absence from a part of the derma where it has been accidentally torn away .
The basement membrane runs up from the derma over the surface of the young tooth , which , as yet , has no calcific deposit , though there is a thick dentinal basis under the basement membrane , much thicker than the future enamel .
It is finely granular throughout , showing no differences of structure in different parts , no signs of tubules , though 1882 .
] the Enamel of the Teeth in Vertebrates .
ifchere is generally a faint granular striation running from the surface 0f the pulp to the basement membrane .
Fig. 9 is a portion of a vertical longitudinal section of the young tooth of a thornbaek hardened in alcohol .
The basement membrane could be traced from the derma quite up to the apex on one side ; it was quite invisible upon the other side , which was cut slightly obliquely to the surface of the tooth .
The series of sections , however , furnishing the requisite conditions showed it to be there also , but in this section ( fig. 9 ) not the slightest trace of it can be ^detected , and , but for subsequent sections , one could declare it did not lexist .
If , at any time before calcific deposit , a young tooth* be carefully icut out , with a portion of the surrounding derma , and the cells of i the enamel organ be washed away , examination with the microscope will show its outer surface to be quite smooth and dense , f and a clear strong homogeneous membrane , enveloping granular and cellular i contents , can be pretty clearly made out .
Pressure of the coverslip , causing the membrane to split , will bring out still more clearly the different structures of the perfectly clear granular transparent dense membrane , and the enclosed cellular pulp or granular dentinal basis upon its surface .
If the tooth be now hardened in alcohol and cut into thin sections , those which are perfectly vertical will show the basement membrane of the small portion of adherent dermis to run up over the tooth as shown in fig. 8 .
It is exceedingly delicate and perfectly transparent , and when the surfaces of the tissues are cut at all obliquely , it is as invisible as a thin film of glass .
Hence it can seldom be followed over the entire surface of even the most perfect section , and it cannot , like the cuticula in a somewhat older tooth , be separated by the use of acid .
When a small bit is fortunately tom away with needles , it shows no " cell markings " upon it , but is perfectly smooth .
If a young tooth papilla be treated in this way , the basement membrane will be found quite upon the cellular pulp , a few cells of the enamel membrane frequently adhering to its surface .
If the section be teased slightly and the membrane broken , the short outlines of its ends , sometimes standing out alone ( Plate 4 , fig. 10 , b. m. ) , and its clear dense structure appears in marked contrast with the granular underlying pulp .
When the teeth , in situ , have been treated with chromic acid for a week or more , as is generally done , and then imbedded , and cut very much at random as is necessarily the case , it is a great chance if any trace of basement membrane can be seen .
The enamel * A small tooth of one of the Plagiostomes answers best\#151 ; say of the thornback .
t At this stage the cuticula , if its formation be begun , is generally brushed off along with the enamel cells .
VOL. XXXIV .
M E. Nunn .
On the Development of [ June 15 f cells may appear to lie quite upon the cellular pulp ; but if the section : H be good and sufficiently thin , a close examination will often reveal ; r , the membrane upon some part or other of the surface of the pulp .
Fig. 11 represents a section of a tooth papilla a little more advanced .
; \#187 ; A thin layer of dentinal basis ( neither dentine nor enamel ) covers the id surface of the pulp , and over all is the basement membrane which , in one part , has fortunately been torn away with needles , and is shown to have a very different appearance from the cuticula , which later is developed above it , and can easily be isolated or " raised up " by acid .
:\gt ; J In the Plagiostomes the soft dentinal basis under the basement v membrane increases in thickness to a considerable depth before the l beginning of calcific deposit , and thus affords a better opportunity for d the study of the behaviour of the basement membrane , as well as for o that of the formation of enamel and dentine , than is met with in II mammalian teeth .
It frequently becomes two or three times as thick as the future enamel will be before the occurrence of any calcification , ji which at last begins at the surface and proceeds inwards .
The base- h ment membrane of the derma can readily be traced running up over \i the surface of the young tooth at all stages , while the tissues are still 1 soft .
But its fate , after calcification begins , is more difficult to follow ; ' whether it calcifies or remains uncalcified , cannot of course be deter-1 mined from acid preparations , and from these alone it would seem j that thin sections could be made .
Experiment has proved , however , j that alcoholic preparations of considerably calcified young teeth can , | by sacrificing a razor for each section , and coming first upon the soft f parts , then upon the hard , be cut into fine sections .
These sections j throw great light upon the manner of calcification and the relation of I the soft and hard parts ; they show , too , that after the removal of the cuticula no ^wcalcified membrane remains upon the surface of the tooth , but owing to the great refractive power of the calcified portion , it seemed impossible to demonstrate a thin membrane on its margin , j The strong appearance of a membrane might still be simply the refractive lines .
The persevering and careful use , however , of diluted nitric acid added under the coverslip , brings clearly into view the basement membrane upon the outer surface of the tooth ; it is not " raised up , " however , as is the case with the cuticula , if it has not been previously removed , and is an altogether different and much more delicate structure than the latter membrane .
Fig. 12 is a section prepared in the way just described , showing the basement membrane , and at one place a fragment of the cuticula adhering to it .
Teeth far enough developed to show a distinctly differentiated enamel layer with a broad band of dentine underneath , can , with sufficient skill , be cut into the thinnest sections ; and , if these are vertical , the basement membrane may always be demonstrated on their surface or under the cuticula if it remain adherent .
, |jyg2 .
] the Enamel of the Teeth in Vertebrates .
163 Thus the basement membrane may be demonstrated running up ^rom the surface of the dermis over the tooth papilla and young tooth \#166 ; in all its stages .
The whole tooth is formed under the basement membrane and the entire growth is from the side of the pulp .
The calcification begins at the surface of the tooth , and there is no addition made outside the part already calcified , no " newly formed layer of enamel " appearing as a membrane on the surface , the tooth receiving tits additions from the side of the pulp only .
3 .
The Origin of the Enamel .
In its early stage the enamel cannot be distinguished from the dentine .
It is formed by a later differentiation of a dentinal basis , which is the same for both dentine and enamel , and the nature of 1 which can be best made out by teasing out , in salt solution , the young f.still soft tooth of some Plagiostome\#151 ; say of a skate .
It will then be found that the granular basis is formed by the regular arrangement side by side of the slender processes of the odontoblasts ( fig. 13 ) , and I that they extend right up to the basement membrane , occupying the | place of the future enamel as well as of that of the dentine ; and it is ' these regularly arranged processes which cause the stria ?
often described .
If the tooth be quite young , the processes are easily separated and seen in connexion with the cell from which they proceed , I and they are frequently branched .
If the tooth be left in ammonium bichromate for a few hours , or ( even in salt solution , the processes , as well as the cells , can be more readily isolated .
Indeed , on simply breaking through the basement | membrane many of them escape and will be found outside .
When the tooth becomes a little older , and the basis thicker , the processes appear glued together by an intercellular matrix as it were , so that the whole basis appears as one mass , the constituent parts of which are separated with difficulty , and only by prolonged maceration in ammonium bichromate .
But , by this time , the deposition of calcareous salts begins ; and , soon after , the differentiation of the mineralised portion into dentine and enamel .
The fact that the processes of the odontoblasts extend quite up to the basement membrane , occupying the place of the future enamel , i : admits of only one view with regard to the origin of the enamel , and I explains the existence of tubules which have often been described as extending into it , and continuous with the dentinal tubules .
I The mode of calcification and the nature of dentine will be discussed in a future paper .
The results arrived at in this paper may be summed up as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
The cuticula dentis is formed by the metamorphosis , either in whole or in part , of the enamel cells , which have nothing whatever to do directly with the formation of the enamel .
In its early stages m 2 E. Nunn .
On the Development of [ June 15 ] ' 1 the cuticula has frequently been considered as " the newly-formed ] |l layer of enamel " and also as the basement membrane .
2 .
The basement membrane may be demonstrated upon the surfaced of the tooth-papilla and upon the tooth in all stages of development , te It becomes calcified with the other hard tissue of the tooth and cannot u be separated by acid .
3 .
The enamel , like the dentine , owes its origin to the odontoblasts , the processes of which , in an early stage , maybe traced quite up to ittjji outer edge .
EXPLANATION OF FIGURES .
The same letters have been employed to mark corresponding structures in thj whole series of figures .
The figures were drawn bty the aid of the camera . . .
b. m. Basement membrane .
c. Guticula dentis .
cal .
Limit of calcification .
cl. Cleft formed by pressure of coverslip , dissecting needle , \amp ; c. d. Dentine* der .
Derma .
di .
Disks .
e. Enamel .
e. c. Enamel cells .
e. m. Enamel membrane , ep .
Epithelium .
e. 1 .
External layer of the enamel organs .
e. o. Enamel organ .
f. Dentinal basis .
, 1 .i .
1 .
Intermediate layer of the enamel organ .
in .
Involution of epithelium ( enamel organ ) .
j. Jaw .
j. c. Cartilage of jaw .
n. Neck of enamel organ .
o. Odontoblasts .
p. Pulp .
pr .
Processes of odontoblasts .
r. [ Reticulation .
ri .
Pidges .
s. Space left by shrinkage of tissues .
t. p. Tooth papilla .
t. Tubule .
u. Limit of enamel layer .
Zeiss Oc .
Ill was employed for all the sections .
The objective is stated for the 1 different figures .
Figure 1 .
Membrane lying between enamel and enamel cells of molar of rabbit .
A. JEn face view , the membrane is seen to be not homogeneous , but the reticulation and enclosed disks have a different structure .
B. Side view which shows the reticulation to be elevated into ridgei* j Two enamel cells and portions of others remain attached , fitting in ] tween the ridges .
Obj .
immersion .
Proc. .Roy .
Soc. Vol PL .
2 West N\amp ; wmxvn \amp ; C ?
IaJJx . .
Nvunn- Proc. Roy .
Soc. 34 .
PI .
3 .
West 1'JewyrvocrL Of Wth , .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. VoL .
PL .
4- .
West- 'Ne.vaotxoutv \amp ; C ?
Hth , \lt ; 1882 .
] the Enamel of the Teeth Vertebrates .
165 L ur 2 .
Part of transverse section of lower incisor of rabbit , showing the membrane ( cuticula dentis ) lying between enamel and enamel cells .
B. shows an enface view of a portion of c. Obj .
immersion .
Figure 3 A portion- of vertical section of young tooth of an adult clavata ( thornback ) , showing the formation of the cuticula by the ends of the enamel cells .
Obj .
immersion .
Figure 4 .
Longitudinal section of spine from a fin ray of the thornback , showing the cuticula entire upon the under surface of the spine , with only fragments left upon its upper surface .
Obj .
2 inch .
Figure 5 .
A portion of the cuticula of fig. 4 , showing the outlines of the cells and their nuclei .
Obj .
TV immersion .
Figure 6 .
A portion of a transverse section of the lower incisor of rabbit , a short distance below the gum .
The enamel extends over the side of the tooth no farther than u. A thick layer covered the front of the tooth which , except at one point , has disappeared .
Obj .
immersion .
Figure 7 .
A portion of a longitudinal vertical section of the upper small incisor of a rabbit , e. m. , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , are cells of the enamel membrane drawn at intervals , showing their gradual change as they approach the crown of the tooth until , on its exposed portion , they form a homogeneous membrane .
Obj .
F. Zeiss .
( The following seven sections were from teeth preserved in alcohol , without acid .
) Figure 8 .
Yertical section of dermis and young tooth of Raia batis ( skate ) .
The basement membrane upon the derm stands out remarkably clearly , and could be seen running up over the young tooth quite to its apex .
Obj .
F. Zeiss .
Figure 9 .
The apex of vertical longitudinal section of tooth of a thornback , showing the basement membrane upon that edge which was cut exactly vertical to the surface of the tooth .
No basement membrane can be distinguished upon the other edge , it being cut obliquely to the surface .
Obj .
F. Zeiss .
Figure 10 .
A portion of a vertical longitudinal section of a tooth papilla of a young skate .
The cellular pulp still extends quite up to the basement membrane , which is more marked as the lines of the cells of the pulp appear to run at right angles to it .
Obj .
F. Zeiss .
Figure 11 .
Portion of a vertical section of a tooth papilla of a thornback , in which a thin layer of dentinal basis is seen under the basement membrane , a small piece of which has been fortunately torn away with needles .
Obj .
F. Zeiss .
Figure 12 .
Portion of section of a tooth of the skate .
Calcification has proceeded from the surface as far as .
The cracks in the calcified portion are produced in cutting .
Most of the dentine is still uncalcified .
Nitric acid was added under the coverslip and has brought out more clearly the basement membrane , which , however , never in any stage of the tooth can be raised up by acid , as can the cuticula which lies over it , a fragment of which adheres at c. Obj .
F. Zeiss .
Figure 13 .
A portion of young tooth of a thornback , teased out in salt solution , showing the dentinal basis to be formed by processes of the odontoblasts arranged closely side by side .
Obj .
F. Zeiss .
Figure 14 .
Part of one of a series of vertical sections of tooth papilla of skate .
In _B , cut vertically , the basement membrane b. m. is distinctly visible .
In A , cut more obliquely , it is not seen .
Obj .
F. Zeiss .

