]\gt ; [ 330- ] XIII .
On the Consf , itution of the Solid Crust of the Earth .
By Archdeacon PRATT , M.A. , F.R. Received September 19 , \mdash ; Read December 22 , 1870 .
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S 1 .
Data regarding Pendulum Observations in India . . . . .
339 S2 .
Data regarding the contour of the continent of India . . . . . . . . . . .
339 S3 .
Formulae for the Vertical Attraction of a spherical cap of matter on the earth 's surface on the mid points ofits upper and lower surfaces , and of its divisions into a central portion and zones . .
340 S4 .
Formulae for the " " Resultant Vertical Attraction\ldquo ; of the central portion of the cap , and of the zones 344 S5 .
Numerical application of the formulae to find the " " Resultant Vertical Attraction\ldquo ; of the Himalayas upon stations of the Indian Arc of Meridian through Cape Comorin . . . .
348 S6 .
Calculation of the " " Resultant Vertical Attraction\ldquo ; of the Sea at stations on a continent , on a coast , or on an island . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
353 S7 .
Application of these results to test the truth of the author 's hypothesis regarding the Constitution of the Earth 's Crust . . . . . . . . . . . .
355 Introduction .
A FEW years ago I proposed the following hypothesis regarding the Constitution of the Earth 's Solid Crust , .
:\mdash ; that the variety we see in the elevation and depression of the earth 's surface , mountalns and plalns and ocean-beds , has arlsen from the mass havlng contracted unequally in becoming solid from a fluid or semifluid condition* : and that *I first proposed this hypothesis in a paper printed in the Proceedings of the Royal Society , No. 64 , 1864 ; see pp. 270-276 of that paper ; and afterwards in the third edition of my ' Figure of the Earth , ' pp. 134-137 .
Nr .
AIRY was the first to suggest , in Phil. Trams .
1855 , p. 101 , a deficiency of matter below mountain- regions ; and he there pointed out that such a deficiency would counteract in great measure the effect of the Himalayas themselves on the plumb-hne , the attraction of which , I had shown in a previous paper in the same volume , by direct calculation , would be considerable and would introduce new anomalies .
The reasoning , how- ever , by which he proceeded to show that this deficiency must exist involved conditions which appeared to me inadmissible\mdash ; viz. ( 1 ) that the solid crust is comparatively thin , and ( 2 ) that the density of the solid crust is less than that of the lava on which it was supposed to float .
See my remarks on Mr. AIRY'S paper at pp. 51 , 52 , Phil. Trans. 1856 ; in which also I give reasons for not admitting , what his data require that the present form of the surface has arisen solely or mainly from hydrostatic .
This hypothesis of deficiency of matter , as there advanced , does not appear to rest on any true physical basis .
In the Phil. Trans. 1858 , p. 745 , up Mr. AIRY'S suggestion of deficiency of matter\mdash ; but not as he conceived it to exist , in a thin crust , immediately below the mountain-mass , and by buoyancy supporting the crust by the principle of floatation\mdash ; I proposed the hypothesis of the mountain-mass having been formed by upheaval , by a slight expansion of the solid crust , and a corresponding attenuation of its density , from a depth below par .
4 , p. 747 ) ; and I showed by calculation , in that paper , that the resulting effect of such attenuation on the plumb-line would be considerable , and quite comparable with the effect which calculation showed would be produced by the mountains themselves .
Immediately after this another source of disturbance of the plumb-line suggested itself to me , viz. deficiency DCCCLXXI .
3 2 .
The process by which I arrived at this hypothesis I will explain .
In the Philoso phical Transactions for 1855 and 1858 showed that the Himalayas and the Ocean must have a considerable influence in producing deflection of the plumb-line in India .
But by a calculation of the mean figure of the earth , taking into account the effect of local attraction , it appeared that nowhere on the Indian- Arc of meridian through Cape Comorin is the resultant local attraction , arising from all causes , of great importance* .
This result at once indicated that in the crust below there must be such variations of density as nearly to compensate for the large effects which would have resulted from the attraction of the mountains on the north of India and the vast ocean on the south , if they were the sole causes of disturbance , \mdash ; and that , as this near compensation takes place all down the arc , nearly 1500 miles in length , the simplest hypothesis is , that beneath the mountains and plains there is a deficiency of matter nearly equal to the mass above the sea-level , and beneath ocean-beds an excess of matter nearly equal to the deficiency in the ocean itself .
3 .
The compensation , should the hypothesis be true , is not complete , but approximate ; of matter in the ocean ; and in a paper in the same volume of the Phil. Trams .
( p. 779 ) I showed by calculation that the vast ocean stretching down to the south pole would produce considerable effects in the southern parts of India , such as the Survey ether failed to detect .
This seemed to imply that , as beneath mountain-regions there is a deficiency of matter , so beneath ocean-beds there must be an excess , in order to account for the defi- ciency in the effect of the ocean ( which of self would be large ) not being discernible .
The thought of an excess of matter below the ocean-bed accords with the remark which Sir JOIIN HERSCHFL once made , that the oceanbed of the Pacific must be more dense than the average surface of the solid crust , otherwise the protuberant ocean would be drawn away and would flow to other parts of the surface .
My calculations had shown , then , that a considerable effect on the plumb-line must result from each of the following causes taken separately : the mountain-region , ( 2 ) the ocean , ( 3 ) widespread , though slight , deficiency or excess of matter in the solid crust .
As there is reason to believe that resultant local attraction is nowhere in India very great , and is small , it must follow that , generally speaking , below high ground there is a deficiency of matter , and below ocean-beds an excess .
But there had .
not been at that time any physical hypothesis proposed to account for these two conditions of the crust , and to connect them together as results of one and the same cause .
An hypothesis was , however , suggested in 1864 , in my in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' alluded to at the beginning of this note , and referred to in the text , viz. that all the varieties we see in the earth 's surface ( in mountains , plains , and ocean-beds ) have arisen from the earth 's mass having contracted unequally in a vertical direction , in passing from a fluid to a solid state\mdash ; a necessary result of its fluid origin being that the amount of matter in any vertical column down to a level surface is the same and always has been the same , whatever the changes in length it may have undergone.\mdash ; Calcutta , April 6 , 1871 .
* See Proc. Royal Soc. No. 64 , 1864 ; but especially Phil. Mag. Febrtlary , 1867 .
OF TBIE SOLID CRUST OF THE EARTHf .
337 for deflections of the plumb-line do exist\mdash ; such , for instance , as that near Moscow .
Thus also in India a comparison of the amplitudes of arcs obtained by observation and by calculation shows the same .
I have constructed the following Table to bring this to view .
The data in the 1st , 2nd , and 3rd columns of numbers are derived from the Chapter on the Figure of the Earth in the volume of the British Ordnance Survey .
TABLE I. atitudes.ectionf p Namthabad I have calculated the amplitudes by means of the formula For finding such very small angles as the deflections , which are the differences of very much larger , no doubt the introduction of the square of the ellipticity would slightly modify the results in the last three columns ; but not so as to affect the use 1 shall make of them .
It seen from thS Table ( last column but one ) that the deflections of the plumb-line , though small , are yet sensible quantities ; and they do not correspond with the heights of the neighbourhood of the several stations .
The hypothesis , therefore , is not exact , but only approximately true , when applied generally , on a large scale .
This , indeed , we might anticipate for other reasons .
For example , if the crust below the ocean-beds has contracted or expanded at all ( which no doubt it has ) since it became too thick* to be able to adjust itself as it floated upon the * The late Mr. HOPKINS pointed out that the amount of precession in the earth 's axis , caused by the disturbimg force of the sun and moon , would be very different in amount as the solid crust was thin or thick ; and he made a calculation ( Philosophical Transactions , 1839 , 1840 , 1842 ) based upon this idea , and showed that the crust must now be at least 1000 miles thick .
M. DELAUNAY has lately read a paper before the Academy of Sciences controverting Mr. HOPKINS'S idea\mdash ; saying that the interior fluid must long have conformed to the motion of the crust in consequence of friction and viscidity , and be now with it as if the whole were sohd .
If the crust moved round a steady axis , this be true .
But this is not the case .
The force which causes contlnually tending to draw the earth 's pole towards the pole of buli does not move it in that direction , but , combining with the rotat motion , causes it to shift a small angle at right angles to the line joining the two poles .
The extent of the angle must depend upon the force , the length of the infinitesimal portion of time , and the moment of inertia of the crust ; for the fluid , during this infinitesimal portion of time , will not have been able to acquire the new motion ; the crust , having no solid connexion with the fluid , slip over it , with a twist .
Suppose even that at the present instant the fluid were two vertical columns drawn down from the surface of the land and the water .
Also , as the crust contracted and brought into play the prodigious force of compression , which would inevitably cause the crust to give way at the weakest part and produce anticlinal lines , crushing , sliding , and interpenetration , there would be a slight increase of mass in some parts on this account .
From these and similar causes it is readily seen that , since the epoch when the crust ceased to be thin enough to adjust its own position according to varying circums.tances , changes must have occurred which would modify the previous state of things .
Still the result of these modifying causes must be but slight , compared with those large effects of the mountains and ocean and crust , which nearly compensate each other , and which suggest the hypothesis .
Another cause arises from the calculation itself .
It is necessary to assume some law of distribution of the mass , that the calculation may be possible .
I assume that the deficiency or excess of matter is distributed uniformly to a depth bearing a fixed ratio to the height of the land or the depth of the ocean .
The actual distribution most likely differs from this .
But this is taken as an average .
must expect , for these reasons , to find that the hypothesis is not satisfied with exact precision .
4 .
Colonel J. ? .
WALKER , , Superintendent of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , to whom I had communicated the formulae developed in this paper , has lately supplied me with information showing the results of the Pendulum Observations recently made along the Great Indian Arc of meridian and at other places , and has obligingly allowed me to make use of the data .
While these observations have been going on I have looked forward with great interest to the results , as I felt persuaded that the observations would furnish me with the means of testing , in a new and inde pendent way , the truth of my hypothesis regarding the constitution of the earth 's crust .
It is the object of the present communication to show with what measure of success the test has been applied* .
moving exactly as the crust , the force producing precession would from this instant give the crust a new motion , which the fluid has not , and which it has not time to acquire before , in the next small portion of time , the crust has shifted again with the same twist .
The amount of precession must therefore depend upon the moment of inertia during the time it is generated , and therefore upon the thickness of the crust and not at all upon the fluid .
* Since the above was written , Colonel WALKER has sent me a copy of a printed letter and Note on the Pendulum Observations , from which I extract the remarks .
' The observations at the five northernmost " " stations indicate that there is much probability that the density of the strata of the earth 's crust under and " " in the vicinity of the Himalayan mountains is less than that under the plains to the south , the deficiency " " increasing as the stations approach the Himalayas , and being greatest when they are north of the ] " " On the other hand , the observations of the five southernmost stations show an increase of density in proceeding from the interior of the peninsula to the coast at Cape Comorin .
Thus both groups of observations tend to ' ' confirm the hypothesis that there is a diminution of density in the strata of the earth 's crust under moun ' ' tains and continents , and an increase of density under the bed of the ocean This is the hypothesis I published in 1864 : see Proceedings , No. 64 .
OF TREE SOLID CRUST OF THE EARTII .
S 1 .
Data regarding Pendulum Observations in India .
6 .
From the information furnished me by Colonel WALKER I complete Table II .
I have selected five stations on the Arc of Meridian at nearly the same distances from one another in succession , averaging about apart .
I have also taken stations on the coast and on an island ( Minicoy ) .
Punnae is close to Cape Comorin .
6 .
The numbers of vibrations of the pendulum at the several stations differ from each each other for three reasons .
The statlons differ ( 1 ) latitude , ( 2 ) above the sea , ( 3 ) in local attraction .
Were all these allowed for , the numbers would come out the same for the several stations .
In Table III .
I allow for the influence of the first and second of these causes ; and the column shows by its variations what we have to attribute to the third cause , viz. local attraction .
The numbers in the first column of Table III .
are obtained from those of the last column of Table II .
by dividing them all by 86000 , and then doubling the small ( that is , the decimal ) part , because gravity varies as the square of the number of vibrations .
In the second and third columns of Table III .
the numbers the last of seven places of decimals , the ciphers and the decimal point being omitted for convenience .
The numbers in the third column are obtained by means of CLAIRAUT'S Theorem , which shows that gravity varies as ; the ellipticity being S2 .
Data regarding the contour of the Continent oj India .
7 .
Viewing the continent of India generally , and allowing for ridges of hills and hollows , it may be said to lie more orless evenly , as far as this problem is concerned , up .
to the foot of the Himalayas .
With regard to the Himalayas , by a careful examination of published documents and maps of the Great Trigonometrical Survey , and of Colonel R. STRACHEY'S map referred to in the Philosophical Transactions for 1858 , p. 774 , and TABLE .
Formuloe for the Vertical Attraction of a Spherical Cap of matter on the earth 's surface on the mid points of its upper and lower surfaces , and of its divisions into Central Portion Zones .
8 .
By a spherical cap is meant such a part of a spherical shell as would be generated by the revolution of the figure AP round the vertical A B. A is the station attracted .
The chord A miles ; the thickness of each cap , above and below the station-level , is miles- Let and be the distances of the attracted point A and of any par- ticle of the cap from the between and chord verse , which FIRST .
Suppose the cap immediately below the station-level .
The attraction of an elementary ring OF THE SOLID CRUST OF THB EARTH .
of matter round , reckoned positive downwards , Integrating from to , and then putting and Total Attraction of the Cap Integrating by parts , the integral becomes .
Putting this for the integral , leplacing by , and taking the limits , Vertical Attraction of the Cap below the station-level This is the exact expression .
9 .
SECONDLY .
Suppose the Cap is immediately above the station-level .
The above formula requires in this case some modification .
In the first place , when the limits of are taken and is put , the radical in the denominator is now , and not as before .
This will change the sign of the first term in the integral with legard to , and will change the signs of the first and second terms within the brackets of the final integral .
Again , the limits ofintegration with regard to must be taken from to which is the same as putting for and also changing the sign of evely term of the be comparatively small .
10 .
These formulae may be much reduced for use by approximation .
The square of will be neglected ; for the greatest value will have in this paper will be ; and therefore its square will be .
Expanding , then , in powers of and neglecting its square , and observing that as occurs in the denominator of every term of the coefficient of the we may neglect everywhere in the .
itself , we have Vertical Attraction of the Cap below the station-level .
If we take the density of the surface to be half the mean density of the earth , and be gravity , then Vertical Attraction of a Cap below the station.level .
( 1 ) The second formula in like manner gives Vertical Attraction of a Cap above the station-level .
( 2 ) 11 .
The cap may be divided into Zones and a Central Portion in the following way .
Let and be the chords of the angular distances from the station of the bounding OF THE SOLID CRUST OF THE EARTH .
circles of any zone , drawn around the station on the sphere which represents the sealevel .
For the zones beyond the central portion is frequently so small that its fourth power may be neglected .
The case where it is not so small will be considered afterwards .
Then formula ( 1 ) gives for a cap of thickness below the station-level Vertical Attraction ; and therefore for the part of the cap over the zone Vertical Attraction .
Hence , if be the height of the station above the sea-level , the Vertical Attraction of a mass on the zone , up to the station-level .
Taking the difference of these , and putting the height of the superficial mass on the zone above the sea-level that Vertical Attraction of the mass on the zone at the sea-level .
If the superficial mass rises above -leyel , we use the formula ( 2 ) , which gives Vertical Attraction ; and this , added to the attlaction of the mass between the sea-level and the gives , observing that in this case Vertical Attraction of the mass on the zone at the sea-level , precisely the same formula as before .
The formula is also true when applied to parts covered by the ocean .
Let , as before , be the height of the station above the sea-level , but the depth of the ocean ( supposed uniform under the zone ) .
The ratio of the density of sea-water to that of rock , which equals ( half the mean density of the earth ) , .
Then and are heights of the station and of the surface of the attracting ocean above the level of the ocean-bed ; and therefore , by means of the formula above proved , Vertical Attraction of the ocean under the zone on the sea-level ; and therefore the effect of the deficiency of density of the ocean below that of rock , which is precisely the same formula as before , being put for because it is measured 1 ; below the sea-level , and the density being that of the deficiency of attracting matter .
Hence for all cases in which the thickness of the mass on the zone is such that the fourth power of its ratio to the mid-distance of the zone may be neglected , Vertical Attraction of the mass on the zone .
12 .
In order to simplify this as much as possible , I shall so divide the sea-level into zones that is the same for the central portion and each zone , equal .
Sup- pose is the number of divisions\mdash ; that is , a central portion , zones , and a central portion at the antipodes , all following the above law .
Let , . . .
be the chords to the successive bounding circles .
Then , . . . . . . . . .
, also ; , . . . . .
and the formula becomes Vertical Attraction of the mass on the zone after the central portion .
( 3 ) In the calculations of this paper I shall take , which makes the radius of the central portion and the 1dth of each zone miles , nearly I would here observe that matter may be always transferred in imagination in azimuth round the station without altering its effect on the vertical attraction .
An application of this principle to an actual case in the earth may often assist in getting a better average for the mass .
Any zone may be subdivided into smaller zones , if necessary , according to the same law .
Also any zone may be divided into four-sided compartments by great circles so drawn through the station as to divide it into portions , the average heights of which may represent the mass , if it be very irregular , better than the mean height of the whole would .
If the fourth power of the thickness may not be neglected , as is done above , the formulae ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) must be used without expanding the radical .
This I shall revert to in the latter part of the next Section .
ormuloe for the " " Resultant Vertical Attraction\ldquo ; of the Central Portion of the Cap , and of the Zones .
13 .
By the expression " " Resultant Vertical Attraction\ldquo ; of a mass I mean the vertical attraction of the mass , diminished by the effect of the attenuation spread uniformly below the sea-level according to the hypothesis .
In the case of the ocean , the resultant vertical attraction will be the ( negative ) ction of the deficiency of matter in the ocean , OF THE SOLID CRUST OF THE EARIH .
increased by the attraction of the addition of matter spread uniformly through the crust below the sea-bed according to the hypothesis .
14 .
If the Central Portion is distributed through a depth mh below the sea-level , the Vertical Attraction of this distributed mass would equal the difference of the attraction of two caps running down to depths and , which , by means of the first formula in paragraph 11 , ; and when this is subtracted from the same formula , Resultant Vertical Attraction of Central Portion Put , and this or according to whether or 100 .
If the mass on the zone is distributed down ough a depth below the sealevel that between depths ) , the second formula in paragraph 11 , after substituting for and in terms of , gives for its effect Subtracting this from the same formula , being first put for Resultant Vertical Attraction for the zone Put , and this or according to whether or 100 .
15 .
These formulae I now tabulate for the five stations\mdash ; observing that the surrounding land up to the sea stretches over radii of , 3 , 5 , 9 , 14 zones respectively .
TABLE .
For it will be quite near enough to double these ; viz. 0000430 16 .
Suppose on a zone of any width only a comparatively small portion of its whole circuit has a mass standing on it .
Then , as the distance from the centre of the mass increases , the angular width varies nearly as the distance inversely .
By paragraph 11 the Vertical Attraction of the mass on the whole zone , being its thickness , .
From which it is easy to deduce that , for a whole zone , Resultant Vertical Attraction This varies very nearly inversely as the square of the distance from the centre of the mass .
Hence , if the mass stands on only a comparatively small portion of the zone measured horizontally at the station , the Resultant Vertical Attraction varies nearly inversely as the cube of the distance .
17 .
I will now consider the case of a zone the height of the mass upon it being such that we must not neglect any power of the depth through which the corresponding attenuation reaches .
We must revert to formula ( 1 ) .
The effect of the attenuation below the zone equals the difference of the effects of two masses , each l-mth of the density of rock , running down to depths and below the station-level .
Call and , as before , the bounding chords of the zone .
The effect of the attenuation .
OF THB SOLID CRUST OF THE EARTH .
Suppose that the zone is the , then Substituting these , neglecting the fourth power of , and introducing a subsidiary angle , such that the effect of the attenuation The pair of radicals in this expression .
by expansion nearly substituting this in the expression for the effect of the attenuation , and adding it to the vertical attraction of the mass above the sea-level given in formula ( 3 ) , Resultant Vertical Attraction for the zone where is the angular extent , at the station , of the part of the zone on which attracting matter stands , at the height ; and is given by the following formula:\mdash ; , and The expression for may be somewhat simplified for zones beyond a certain distance .
For when is sufficiently small to allow of its fourth power being neglected , and the part of depending on becomes by expansion .
Neglecting , and substituting for , this becomes , and or , ( 6 ) when ( 7 ) .
Numerical application of the formulae to find the ' Resultant Vertical Attraction\ldquo ; of the Himalayas upon Stations of the Indian Arc of Meridian through Cape Comorin .
19 .
The formulae of the last paragraph I shall now apply to find the resultantvertical attraction of the Himalayas at the three nearest of the stations I have entered in the Table in S 1 , .
Kaliana , Kalianpur , Damargida .
The attraction at the rest can be found more simply .
shall take two cases of , viz. and OF THE SOLID CRUST OF THE EARTH .
349 FIRST , Station Kaliana .
By ( 7 ) we have .
Hence formula ( 5 ) must be used up to 6th zone ; after that formula ( 6 ) up to the 17th or last .
By ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , Resultant By ( 6 ) \mdash ; \mdash ; .
' Station Damargida .
By ( 7 ) we have .
Hence we need use only the formula ( 6 ) .
OF THE SOLID CRUST OF THE EARTH .
Station Kaliana .
By ( 7 ) we have .
Hence up to the 11th zone we must use formula ( 5 ) and after that ( 6 ) .
By ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , and Resultant R. ( 6 ) MDCCCLXXI .
3 Station Kalianpur .
By ( 7 ) we have , as before , ; and we must use formula ( 5 ) to the 11th zone , and after that formula ( 6 ) .
( 5 ) ( 6 ) OF THE SOLID CRUST OF TIIE EARTH . .
Station Damargida .
By ( 7 ) we have , as before , ; and therefore formula ( 6 ) may be used throughout .
By ( 6 ) 20 .
As the Resultant Vertical Attraction at Damargida , which is far from the Himalayas , is small , we may find that at the still further stations in the list , viz. Bangalore and Punnae and the others , by the of the inverse cube , which I have proved in paragraph 17 .
The distance of Damargida the centre of the tableland which I have taken to represent the Himalayas in this problem , is about Hence the Resultant Vertical Attraction caused by the Himalayas will be as follows:\mdash ; S6 .
Calculation of the " " Resultant Vertical Attraction\ldquo ; of the Sea at Stations on a Continent , on a Coast , or on an Island .
21 .
I will suppose a straight coast-line , the sea-bottom shelving down and then rising again , so as practically to be equivalent to a uniform descent to a depth at a distance from the shore , and beyond that to have no sensible effect on the Resultant Vertical Attraction .
Let be the horizontal distance from the shore , and the depth of an elementary horizontal prism of sea-water , of indefinite length , running parallel to the coast-line ; the distance on the sea-level of a station in the interior of the continent on which the effect of the sea is to be found .
Suppose the horizontal prism to consist of two parts of indefinite length , divided at the point opposite the station on the coast .
The attraction Suppose matter equal in amount to the deficiency in the ocean is spread down uniformly through a depth .
Then Resultant Vertical Attraction nearly , This formula I will apply to find the effect of the sea upon our stations .
I suppose that the bottom shelves down at the same angle on an average on the east and the west coasts , so as to make , but that on the east coast , and on the west 900 miles .
The distances of the five stations from the east coast are about , 180 , 330 , 560 , 840 miles ; and from the west coast about , 190 , 300 , 480 , 700 miles .
The distances of Alleppy and Mangalore from the east coast are about120 and 350 miles ; and of Madras and Cocanada from the west coast about 350 and 560 .
For these the formula gives as follows : TABLE 22 .
I will now take the case of an Island , and suppose it to be in the form of a cylinder of radius in a sea of uniform depth .
Then by formula ( 1 ) we easily obtain the following result:\mdash ; Resultant Vertical Attraction at the middle of the Island being large .
TPIE SOLID CBUST OF THE EARTH .
355 Minicoy Island is about miles west of Punnae .
Its average radius is about miles ; and three miles from the shore the sea is about 300 fathoms , or about one-third of a mile .
If , then , to make our cylinder accord with this case , right angles being cut down , we make and , we have .
Application of these results to test the truth of the author 's hypothesis regarding the Constitution of the Earth 's Crust .
23 .
In the following Table I bring together the several data and results of this paper in order to compare them .
TABLE Under the heading " " Correction for Local Attraction\ldquo ; Dr. YOUNG'S is found by taking one third for the " " Reduction for Height\ldquo ; in Table III .
The three columns for Plains , Himalayas , and Sea are taken from paragraphs 15 , 19 , 21 , 22 .
These three columns , in each case of , are added together , and after the values for Punnae are subtracted the results are recorded in columns and C. In order the better to compare these results with the quantities which are to be accounted for , I compile the following Table from the columns of Table The sign indicates a force acting downwarda In all the columns the numbers are the last figures of seven places of decimals in the ratio to gravity , the decimal point and ciphers being omitted for convenience .
TABLE VIII .
24 .
This Table contains all the final results necessary to enable us to judge of the truth of the hypothesis which I advocate in this paper , and which I will now discuss .
From the first column of numbers we learn that , according to Pendulum Observations , gravity at the four stations I have chosen north of Punnae , when every cause of variation is eliminated except Local Attraction , is alternately in excess and defect of that at Punnae , the first ( at Bangalore ) being in excess .
In the whole range of stations in my , the effect on gravity at Kaliana and Minicoy is the most important\mdash ; the first in defect , the last in excess .
I will now consider how far the effects exhibited in this Table are accounted for on Dr. YOUNG'S ( or the usually received ) method , and my own .
The Coast stations shall first be taken .
In these neither method has much success in accounting for the local attraction .
A survey of the form of the land and sea-bottom near those places would very likely change this result .
The local vertical attraction at Alleppy is the greatest , and is in excess .
This may be accounted for probably in part by the sea between it and Minicoy being deeper than the general slope which I have assumed in the calculation , as will be understood when I come to refer to Minicoy .
None of the local vertical attractions at the coast stations are very large .
Next let us take the Indian Arc and Ocean Stations .
The second column of numbers shows that Dr. YOUNG'S correction , so far from improving matters , introduces very large residual errors , and those on the Arc are all in the same direction .
And I may add that , if his method of allowing for the effect of all superficial causes of disturbance is fully carried out , a negative quantity must be added to correct the effect of the Himalayas at Kaliana , as they are below its horizon , and a positive quantity at Punnae for the sea .
And when all are referred to Punnae the whole series of numbers for this mode of rection , which disregards the state of the interior , is even greater than before .
The third and fourth columns show the effect of the method of this paper , in the two cases of the then , I shall discuss .
The only residual errors which are large are those at Damargida , showing a defect in gravity at that place compared with Punnae , and at Kalianpur in excess .
On examining the numbers in the last column of Table I. , paragraph 3 , it will be seen that there is a very small horizontal force at Damargida , and at the stations next to it , north and south , the horizontal force is directed from Damargida both cases .
This indicates a deficiency of matter in the neighbourhood of that station , which accords with the residual error in my last Table VIII .
Also in Table I. we see that there is a horizontal force from Kalianpur towards Takal Khera , and also from Takal Khera towards Kalianpur .
This indicates an abnormal excess of matter between those stations , and nearer to Kalianpur than to Takal Khera , as the force at the former is the larger of the two .
This accords with an excess of matter near to Kalianpur , which is indicated by an excess of gravity shown in my Table VIII .
At Bangalore the Table indicates a slight abnormal deficiency of matter .
But Table I. shows a north horizontal force at Dodagoontah , more than four miles south of Bangalore .
This would seem to imply that the slight deficiency of matter which causes the defect of gravity at Bangalore runs further south of Dodagoontah than it does north .
It is generally difficult to compare the horizontal and vertical effects of a hypothetical excess or defect of matter , as all depends upon its situation relatively to the stations .
Thus an excess or defect immediately below a station will not affect the plumb-line , whereas a defect or excess near the surface , and between stations and far from both , will not affect the vertical force materially .
On the whole the peculiarities at Damargida , Kalianpur , and Bangalore seem to be sufficiently accounted for .
The other residual errors in Table VIII .
, at Kaliana and Minicoy , are so small that they may be considered evanescent ; and seeing that the local attractions at those places , as shown in the first column of Table VIII .
, are very large , this result speaks decidedly in favour of the hypothesis .
The fact that the anomalous circumstance is accounted for by the hypothesis , that a station out at sea exhibits a considerable increase in gravity , although surrounded by the ocean , which has a deficiency of attracting matter , is a very strong argument in favour of the hypothesis .
Were the exact contour of the continent and the neighbouring sea-bed better known , the application of this method might be carried out more completely .
As it is , however , what remains unexplained is not important .
When we remember , then , that the calculations have been conducted in the particular case of the distribution of matter , in excess and defect , being rm , whereas in the contracting of the mass this is not at all likely to have strictly been the case , and observe the way in which the hypothesis nearly explains the errors , while the usually received method does not do so at all , but indeed aggravates them considerably , I think the hypothesis may be regarded as receiving support from the Pendulum Observations recently made on the extensive continent , coast , and in one.important instance the neighbouring sea of India .
/

