1878 .
] # On the Function of Respiration at Various Altitudes .
293 II .
" Summary of an Experimental Inquiry into the Function of Respiration at Various Altitudes .
" By William Marcet , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1878 .
These experiments were mainly undertaken with the view of inquiring into the state of the respiration of tourists at various altitudes , and under the different circumstances met with on Alpine excursions .
I was engaged with the present work in the last three summers ; the stations selected being:\#151 ; 1 .
A village named Yvoire near the Lake of Geneva , altitude 1,230 feet .
2 .
The Hospice of the Great St. Bernard , 8,115 feet .
3 .
The Riffel Hotel , Zermatt , 8,428 feet .
4 .
The St. Theodule Hut , 10,899 feet .
5 .
The summit of the Breithom , 13,685 feet .
An interesting paper on the physiological influence of the fall of atmospheric pressure by A. Mermod appeared in " The Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles " for September , 1877 .
After making a series of observations on the pulse , rate of breathing and temperature of the body at several , though but moderate altitudes , he selects Strasburg , 124 metres , and a place called Ste. Croix , 1,100 metres , for his experiments on respiration .
He made 35 experiments at Strasburg , and 32 at Ste. Croix , the temperature of the air being much the same at both places while occupied with the inquiry .
He states , in conclusion , that the absolute and relative quantity of carbonic acid exhaled from the lungs increases by a change of residence to higher altitudes , while the rate of respiration ( frequence remains always the same , and there is a diminution in the weight of the air breathed .
My results are similar to those obtained by Mr. Mermod , the only point on which we may differ referring to the rate of breathing .
My case , however , is slightly different from that of the former experimentalist ; he resided two or three months at his stations , while , with the exception of Yvoire , where I spend two or three months every summer , I merely remained at mine long enough to make my experiments .
I ascended the Breithorn with my instruments on three different occasions ; the second time my stay on the summit lasted five hours fifty-one minutes , and the third time also between five and six hours .
I was engaged with the experiments at the St. Theodule Pass during eight days in succession in 1875 , and returned there last summer for three days to complete the inquiry , one of those days being taken up with the ascent of the Breithorn with my instruments .
The inquiry was carried on for three days at the St. Bernard , and for the same length of time at the Riffel .
Dr. W. Marcet on 294 Dr. W. Marcet on [ Apr 11 My experiments amount to one hundred and eleven in number th relate to the quantity of carbonic acid expired , the volume of the air exhaled , and the number of expirations observed within a given time With respect to the estimation of carbonic acid , the principle of Pettenkofer 's method was adopted ; but the mode of applying it Wag somewhat altered in order to suit my requirements .
The air to be analysed being first expired into a bag made of strong india-rubber material , was afterwards drawn into a long glass tube of a know capacity .
The tubes used in these experiments held about one and half litre .
The tube , fastened upright to a tripod and closed with india-rubber stoppers , was first filled with a nearly saturated solution of salt water .* the bag being then connected with the tube through the stopper at the upper end , the salt water was let out at the lower part thus aspiring the air from the bag into the tube .
The capacity of the tube being known , it became filled with a measured bulk of air to be analysed .
The air in the bag had been allowed to cool till its temperature had become the same as that of the salt water in the tube so that the temperature of the air in the tube and in the bag was alike .
A small pear-shaped vulcanised india-rubber bag , of a capacity of about 100 cub. centims. and emptied of its air , was now substituted for the large india-rubber bag , and a pipette holding 100 cub. centims. of the normal solution of barium , and which had been run through the upper india-rubber stopper , was now opened by turning a stopcock .
The fluid then fell into the tube , the air thereby displaced being collected in the small india-rubber bag which acted as a diverticulum .
A stopcock m the tube connected with this diverticulum being next closed , the large analysis-tube or cylinder was removed from the tripod and its contents driven from one end to the other repeatedly in order to effect the combination of the carbonic acid ; the tube was then returned to the tripod , and the air in the diverticulum forced into it by pressuie with the fingers , when the stopcock was again closed to be followed by fresh agitation .
The milky fluid was now drawn into a small bottle holding about 100 cub. centims. , which was well corked , and the solution was subsequently analysed with one of oxalic acid of known strength .
With but few exceptions the clear fluid was drawn out of the bottle for analysis with a pipette , as I was led , in the course of this inquiry , to object to filtration .
The above description is necessarily much condensed and shortened , but the drawing which accompanies the present summary will explain at one glance the form of apparatus I employed .
The air was breathed into the bag through a well-fitting ori-nazal mask from which two tubes projected , each tube being supplied with a valve carefully made by Mr. Coxeter , of Grafton Street .
The valves , * The SEW of 8alt water was t0 av'id the absorption of carbonic acid .
I found , ' m the course of the inquiry , that distilled water could safely be used .
1878 ] 9 Function of Respiration at Various Altitudes .
295 were so constructed as to let in the external air for the inspiration , and transmit the inspired air to the bag .
There was much more difficulty than I had anticipated in determining the Capacity of the bags used for collecting the air expired .
This was done by filling the bag with a bellows under a certain pressure , and then measuring the bulk of air by means of a water aspirator , the amount of water necessary for aspiring out the whole of the air being carefully measured ; the capacity of each bag was thus ascertained a number of times , the probable approximate error being finally estimated at half a litre .
Two of the bags mostly used in last summer 's experiments had been found to contain 39-8 litres of air each under a pressure of one inch of water , another held 46-5 litres of air under p5 inch of water .
Other bags about the same size were employed , and one still larger was used on a few occasions .
The use of india-rubber bags , although made of strong material , appeared to me at first open to a great objection from the known divisibility of carbonic acid through caoutchouc , as shown by Thomas Graham ; * but in the course of the present inquiry I satisfied myself that no appreciable loss , at all events , no loss serious enough to impair my results , occurred through the bag in the course of an hour , and as much as three-quarters of an hour seldom elapsed between the filling of the bag and the introduction of the air into the analysis-tube .
The experiments were made either sitting , or walking on level ground , or walking up hill ; most of them were made sitting .
They were always conducted in the open air , and no smoking was allowed near the spot while the bag was being filled .
The posture selected was assumed a few moments before the experiment was commenced , so as to bring the body under the proper physiological condition .
The experiments in the sitting posture were conducted in the following Way:\#151 ; I first placed the empty bag in a woollen jacket to preserve the temperature of ' the air expired and allow of its being taken , then the bag was connected through a neck and india-rubber tube with a water gauge fastened to a post , and a thermometer was slipped into the bag through another neck .
An assistant , and my guide while in the mountains acted as such in a most commendable and intelligent way , stood ready by me with a stop-watch registering the minutes and seconds , and at a preconcerted signal set the watch in motion .
] " At the same time I began expiring into the bag , holding the mask to the face with my hand .
When the bag was full , and the water in the gauge up to a certain mark , the timepiece was stopped .
Thus , the time to expire a certain volume of air was determined .
The temperature of the air inside the bag was then read off , and the jacket removed from the bag , the latter being next agitated in the air or * " Phil. Trans. , " 1866 .
t I frequently attended myself to the watch .
Dr. W. Marcet on [ Apr. 11 , sprinkled over with water or snow till the air it contained had fallen to that of the salt water in the analysis-tube .
An assistant holding up the bag I connected it with the tube , into which the air was drawn by letting out the water from the tube into a bottle .
When the experiments were made walking the jacket was usually dispensed with ; no account was taken of the carbonic acid in the atmosphere , as I invariably experimented in the open air with the view of obtaining results to be considered comparatively with each other .
It is true that M. Truchot * has shown that the proportion of carbonic acid in the atmosphere diminishes as the altitude increases ; the difference , however , with respect to the volume of air breathed is so small as to'introduce no substantial error in my inquiry .
The temperature of the air in the bag immediately after it had been filled , and having its jacket on , was higher than that same air when submitted to analysis .
When the difference amounted to more than one or two degrees Fahrenheit , which was nearly always the case , a correction was introduced into the calculation .
Results .
The influence of food in increasing the amount of carbonic acid expired is well known .
This is clearly shown on the present occasion by placing in a tabular form the quantity of carbonic acid expired ( in grammes and grains ) at successive hours after a meal .
The table in full being too voluminous for the present abstract , I append the means only:\#151 ; Mean Weight of Carbonic Acid expired per Minute .
Time after a meal .
Mean of high altitudes , 10,292 feet .
1 Number of 1 experiment .
Mean temperature of air .
Low altitude 1,230 feet .
Number of experiment .
Mean temperature of air .
From 0 to 1 hr .
" 1 to 2 hrs .
" 2 to 3 hrs .
" 3 to 4 hrs .
" 4 to 6 hrs .
co2 grms. grs. 0-478 - 7-376 0-455 \#151 ; 7021 0-436 - 6-728 0-440 - 6-790 0-431 - 6-651 t 5 10 11 5 8 45-'7 F. 48'-l 46'-9 46'"7 46'-2 co2 grms. grs. 0-434 - 6-697 0-447 - 6-898 0-413 \#151 ; 6373 0392 \#151 ; 6 049 0 396 - 6111 6 4 11 6 4 56'-0 F. 57'-0 57'-0 58'-6 60'-3 In the experiments made on the mountains at various elevations , * Compte-rendus de l'AcadSmie , yoI .
lxxvii , 1873 .
+ It is interesting to observe that the relation between the highest and lowest means of the high altitudes and low altitude respectively is nearly the same , viz. , 7-376 : 6 651 =6'697 : 6 039 j the lowest means found for the low altitude was 6049 .
1878 .
] the Function of Respiration at Various .
the mean altitude of which was 10,292 feet , the maximum carbonic acid expired is during the first hour after a meal , and the minimum from four to six hours after eating .
There is a slight rise during the fourth hour after a meal , by 4 mgms .
only , probably due to a cause independent of food .
.At the low station , 1,230 feet above the sea , the maximum carbonic acid is expired the second hour after a meal .
There is a slight rise also by 4 mgms .
between the fourth and sixth hour after a meal , probably owing likewise to some cause independent of food .
The whole of my experiments are not included in the means of this table , as many of them bore no record of the time they were made at , with reference to the last meal taken .
I must also add , that the temperature was only noted occasionally during the day while the experiments were being made , and not at each experiment , as there was frequently no marked change of temperature between one experiment and another .
I only wish to draw general conclusions from this table , which certainly shows that the ingestion of food increases temporarily the amount of carbonic acid expired , a fact which has been fully proved by the experiments of Edward Smith ; * I find that the greatest quantity of carbonic acid is expired during the first or second hour after a meal , according to E. Smith this occurs in from one and a-half to two and a-half hours after a meal .
In order to neutralize the influence of food , my experiments were made at all times of the day between breakfast and a late dinner , with but two exceptions which only reduce the means by 2 mgms .
for the carbonic acid expired at one station , and 4 mgms .
at the other .
Hence it cannot be considered , in my estimation of the influence of altitude on respiration , that the food taken exerted any marked influence .
I must add , however , that I took , on the whole , less food at the two highest stations-\#151 ; the St. Theodule Pass and Breithorn\#151 ; than at the other places .
The following table shows the mean results obtained from the experiments made at the five different stations in the sitting posture:\#151 ; * " Phil. Trans. , " 1859 .
jure .
Dr. W. Marcet , on [ Apr. 11 , O Pm TJl $ .a \lt ; x\gt ; Yol .
air !
expired per expiration reduced .
0-67 lit .
0-61 064 0-76 0-70 !
No. of experiments .
6 13 21 6 33 Frequency of the respiration per minute .
cp oo co cq cq o* o oo do iH vH \#171 ; H Per cent. C02 in air expired by yol .
51 49 4-9 51 41 Yol .
air expired per minute reduced to 760 mgm .
and 0'* C. litres .
4-86 4-67 4-64 4-42 514 Yol .
00* expired per minute reduced to 760 mgin .
and 0'- 0 .
litres .
0-248 0227 0-229 0-234 0-210 Weight of carbonic acid expired per minute .
grms. 0-487 0-446 0-450 0460 0414 No. of experiments .
7 15 23 6 37 Mean tempe- rature during experi- ment .
( =5 O \lt ; M ^ ^ 90 c* *2 Jr oo co ^ 10 Alti- tude . .
$ S S g | 43 CD 00 ^ r-i | W O 00 00 rH Atmospheric pressure .
468 miHims .
18"425 inches .
517 millims. 20"3o5 inches .
565 millims. 22*250 inches .
568 millims. 22"634 inches .
726 miUims .
28*592 inches .
Stations .
Breithom ... .
-I St. Theodule. .
Biffel | St. Bernard . .
-f Lake of Geneva 1878.J the Function of Respira cut Various Altitudes , Influence of Temperature at the various Stations on the amount of Carbonic Acid expired .
The stations at which a sufficient number of experiments were made to allow of an approximate estimation of the influence of the temperature of the air on the amount of carbonic acid expired , were Yvoire , the Eiffel , and St. Theodule .
I have grouped the temperatures and amounts of carbonic acid expired , as will be seen in the following table ; the experiments they refer to are quite irrespective of the time at which they have been made after a meal .
Stations .
Mean temperature .
C02 expired .
Number of experiments .
Yvoire -I 51'*5 F. 0'416 grm. 15 L 65'-2 0406 " 15 The Riff el / 48'-7 0-491 " 10 l 57''2 0-418 " 10 St. Theodule 36''1 0-458 " 7 42'5 0-439 " 7 In this table , it will be observed that at every altitude there is an increase of carbonic acid expired as the temperature falls , which is especially great at the Eiffel .
This circumstance observed at the Eiffel may be clearly traced to the weather , which was bad during one of the days I was engaged with my experiments there last summer .
While sitting out of doors breathing quietly into my bag the rain was falling heavily , accompanied by a cold , piercing wind .
United influence of Temperature and Altitude on the Carbonic Acid expired .
If we now turn our attention to the united influence of temperature and altitude on the amount of carbonic acid expired , the following table will throw some light on the subject by showing the difference of mean temperature , carbonic acid expired , and altitude , between Yvoire and the four other stations:\#151 ; Yvoire , 1,230 feet .
Difference in temperature .
Difference in C02 expired .
Difference in altituie .
St. Bernard . .
\#151 ; 14'"1 Riffel - 5'-4 St. Theodule . .
\#151 ; 18''6 Breithom . . . .
\#151 ; 22'#9 + 0*046 grm. + 0036 " + 0.032 " * + 0*073 " 6,885 feet 7,198 " 9,669 " 12,455 " * At St- Theodule , the temperature was comparatively low in the shade where my thermometer was placed j but many experiments were made in the sun , and more-YOL .
XXVII .
v * Dr. W. Marcet on [ Apr. 11 , The sign \#151 ; before the figures , showing differences of temperature , means that those temperatures are by so much lower than the mean temperature at Yvoire ; while the sign + in the next column means that the corresponding figures are by so much in excess of those showing the amount of carbonic acid expired at Yvoire .
An inspection of this table shows that there is a marked excess of carbonic acid expired at every one of the high stations over the amount expired at Yvoire ; and , moreover , that this excess for the summit of the Breithom is more than twice that registered for the St. Theodule , just double that for the Riff el , and not quite twice that for the St. Bernard .
It is difficult to conclude that this very great proportional excess of carbonic acid exhaled at the Breithorn is due entirely to the cold air met with at that station ; and there is , to say the least , a strong presumption of the existence of another cause to account for the formation of more carbonic acid in the body at increasing altitudes , A further consideration of this point will lead to the conclusion that the evaporation from the skin and lungs increasing as the atmospheric pressure falls on rising above the sea , a certain degree of cold is thereby produced .
Its effect becomes added to the influence of the fall of atmospheric temperature met with as a rule during the progress of mountain ascents ; to be only resisted by the body by additional combustion , attended with an increased production of carbonic acid .
In Mr. Mermod 's experiments , the temperature of the air Was the same at his two stations , and the cold from increased evaporation " , ccounts apparently for the excess of carbonic acid expired at his highest station .
I have therefore come to the conclusion that there is an increase of carbonic acid expired as a person rises above the sea on a mountain excursion , and that this phenomenon is due to two causes\#151 ; first , the fall of the atmospheric temperature ( this is shown as a fact ) , and secondly , the cold produced by increased evaporation from the body , due to the diminished pressure of the atmosphere , this last conclusion being drawn as an inference .
In short , more carbonic acid is formed in the body to counterbalance the influence of cold from the two circumstances just stated .
If on ascending to a higher level we should find the same atmospheric temperature as we left at the lower station , still an increased amount of carbonic acid will be expected on account of the cold due to the greater cutaneous and pulmonary evaporation .
As to the volume of air breathed at different altitudes , it is remarkable that , although under barometric pressures very different from each other* and consequently with ever-changing bulks of air actually inhaled , still when these volumes of air are reduced to that they would occupy at the sea-side and at the freezing temperature , we frj over , T took less food there than at the lower stations .
These circumstances probably account for the unexpectedly low excess of carbonic acid exhaled at that place .
1878 .
] the Function of Respiration at Various Altitudes .
301 them nearly but not quite the same .
An increase in the amount of carbonic acid evolved at places increasing in altitude was attended with an actual decrease of the volume of air expired also reduced .
This result again agrees with that obtained by Mr. Mermod .
It applies in my case to greater altitudes , attended with differences of temperatures at the various stations ; while , as already stated , the temperature of the air was the same at Mr. Mermod 's two stations .
As the amount of carbonic acid expired is more at the higher stations than at the lowest , and the volume of air 'breathed ( reduced ) less at the higher stations , it must follow that the proportion of carbonic acid expired will be greater at the higher than at the lowest station ; we find accordingly that the mean for the high stations yields 4-9 per cent , of carbonic acid in the air expired , while the experiments at the lowest station give 4*1 per cent. From observations made with and without the face-piece , it follows that I breathed into the open air slower , and apparently deeper , through the mask than without it .
This accounts for the small number of expirations I noted per minute in all my experiments .
Relatively , however , the results obtained on this point may be accepted , as the breathing was carried on always in the same way while sitting and walking respectively .
We find an increase in the frequency of respiration from an altitude of 8,115 feet to that of 13,685 feet , but hardly any such increase between the altitudes of 1,230 feet and 8,115 feet .
This greater number of respirations per minute between the St. Bernard and Breithorn was not observed to progress proportionally with rising altitudes from 8,115 feet , as will be seen in the table , and there must have been some other cause besides increased elevation to account for it .
Mr. Mermod found no difference in the frequency of respiration between 466 feet and 3,609 feet ; and here , again , for low stations I agree with him ; but I cannot follow him in concluding that , therefore , the phenomenon is not altered at greater altitudes .
The volume of air reduced , exhaled per respiration , varied at the several stations , but followed no regular change relatively to altitude ; it ranged from 510 cub. centims. at St. Theodule , to 760 cub. centims. at the St. Bernard .
Experiments made while walking on Level , or ascending .
In every one of these experiments I walked for a short time , say two or three minutes , or longer , before commencing to collect the air expired .
They are fewer in number than those made sitting , and less satisfactory , as it is impossible to depend upon the degree of muscular exertion being the same in comparative experiments while in the act of walking or climbing .
x 2 Dr. W. Marcet on [ Apr. 11 , Station .
Occupation .
Weight of C02 expired per minute .
Volume of air expired per minute .
Relation of C02 to C02 expired sitting at station .
Per cent. co2 in air expired .
No. of ex-peri-ment .
G-rms .
Litres .
Yy01T6 \#171 ; . .
\#187 ; r Walking level . . . . . .
2*249 25*84 5*42 to 1 4*4 7 1 r Walking level 2*457 24*77 5*35 to 1 5*0 5 Walking up rapidly St. Bernard -\lt ; i over rocks and grass patches 3*156 32*45 6*86 to 1 4*9 3 1 l .
Walking up leisurely 2*120 19*72 4*82 to 1 5*4 2 1 r Walking level 1*919 22*06 4*32 to 1 4*4 2 St. Theodule \#171 ; i Ascending rapidly l steep slope ... ... 2*972 24*97 6*69 to 1 6*1* 1 Breithorn ... Walking level 1*886 19*48 3*87 to 1 5*0 3 The results have been disposed in a tabular form , and appear to show that while walking on level ground , when a certain altitude is reached , there is a decided fall in the amount of both the carbonic acid and air expired .
Yvoire and the St. Bernard gave nearly the same results ; but when the height of the St. Theodule Pass was attained ( 10,899 feet ) , there was a reduction in the expiration of .
carbonic acid while walking on level ground from 2'249 grms. at Yvoire , and 2 457 at the St. Bernard , to 1*919 grms. ; on the summit of the Breithorn there was a further fall of carbonic acid expired to 1*886 grms. , while the volume of air expired per minute was reduced from 24*77 litres to 19*3 litres ; but the experiments are not numerous enough to allow of any but very general results .
The same remark applies to the experiments made walking up hill .
They certainly show , however , that walking up rapidly over rocks and grass patches at or below the elevation of the St. Bernard , yield most carbonic acid , the amount being as much as 3*156 grms. per minute at the St. Bernard , which was attended with the inhalation of the largest volume of air breathed .
Ascending quickly at the height of St. Theodule caused a considerable elimination of carbonic acid through the lungs , amounting to 2*972 grms. On the other hand , walking leisurely up hill at the St. Bernard gave rise to the production of no more carbonic acid than quick walking on the level ground at that same station ; indeed , the amount was a trifle less .
These experiments , therefore , give an idea of the extreme quantities of carbonic acid expired at various altitudes under moderate and great muscular exertion , and appear to show that at great elevations , such = as that of the summit of the Breithorn , and perhaps lower , the body is less able to take in a sufficient amount of air for the supply of carbonic * Appears ratlier high .
1878 .
] the Function of Respiration at Various Altitudes .
303 acid necessary to long-continued exertion , which supply becomes thereby reduced in quantity .
EXPLANATION OF THE FIGURE .
A. India-rubber bag acting as a diverticulum .
B. Pipette delivering 100 c.o. of the barium solution .
0 .
Tube for the analysis of the air expired , of a capacity of about 1*5 litre .
Appendix .
Keceived April 2 .
If the relative humidity of the atmosphere should fall at increasing altitudes this might be considered as an additional cause of loss of heat 304 Prof. J. C. Maxwell on Stresses in Rarefied Gases [ Apr. 11 , the body must experience during Alpine ascensions .
Professor Planta- : mour , of Geneva , * from observations made at Geneva and the Great St. Bernard , concludes that there is no marked difference between the hygrometric states at various altitudes .
According , however , to Dr. Lombard , who has considerable knowledge and experience of climate , the air appears to be , as a rule , much drier above 1,500 metres than below that altitude .
III .
" On Stresses in Rarefied Gases arising from Inequalities of Temperature .
" By J. Clerk Maxwell , F.R.S. , Professor pf Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
Received March 19 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
In this paper I have followed the method given in my paper " On the Dynamical Theory of Gases " ( Phil. Trans. , 1867 , p. 49 ) .
I have shown that when inequalities of temperature exist in a gas , the pressure it a given point is not the same in all directions , and that the difference between the maximum and the minimum pressure at a point may be of considerable magnitude when the density of the gas is small enough , and when the inequalities of temperature are produced by small ; solid bodies at a higher or lower temperature than the vessel containing the gas .
2 .
The nature of this stress may be thus defined : let the distance from the given point , measured in a given direction , be denoted by h , and the absolute temperature by 6 ; then the space-variation of the temperature for a point moving along this line will be denoted by .\#151 ; , and the space-variation of this quantity along the same line by dh .
There is in general a particular direction of the line for which - - is a maximum , another for which it is a minimum , and a third for dh* # J which it is a maximum-minimum .
These three directions are at right angles to each other , and are the axes of principal stress at the given point ; and the part of the stress arising from inequalities of temperature is in each of these principal axes a pressure equal to\#151 ; u* dfiO *p0 dh* ' where ft is the coefficient of viscosity , p the density , and 9 the absolute temperature .
3 .
Now , for dry air at 15 ' C. , ^=T9 X 10"* in centimetre-gramme* Lombard .
" Climafc des Montagues/ * 1873 .

