708 Finally , the essay developes above thirty series which rise out of this theory , nearly all of which are believed to be new .
The most elegant of them may find a place here .
Writing , for conciseness , C so related to c that F(c , 7r)= -7C , and .
' .
F(c w)=-Cx , we have sin 2x sin 4x sin 6x { a ) .
wo=+ Co-+2.--C02 ia + .
Co+ &amp; co Cos na Cos 2ira 3Cos 3-a ( 6 ) .
( 2 cos 22 cos 2 +2 cos 42 cos 6x ( b ) .
CA(e , ?
)---+ +++ c &amp; C , Cos ra Cos 2ra Cos 37ra ( I C2 S2*in Sin 2x 2 sin 4x 3 sin 6x ( c ) .
-Cs sin 2 --s -+ ++ &amp;c. .
Coswra Cos 27a Cos37ra 1 -cos 2a 1cos4x , + 1-cos6x ( d ) , V(c , w)= .
2+ -+I. .
+ &amp;c. s. sin wra sin 27ra sin 37ra ( e ) .
kC G(c , W)=sin 2x sin 4x sin 6x ( e ) .
-C , ,G(c , ( ) ) = s 709 If we pass from the circle to the ellipse , the addition of the arcs becomes more complicated , the product of the sines being multiplied by a radical .
This relation was first obtained by Euler as the integral of a differential equation .
I have called it elsewhere , for convenience , the elliptic equation between three amplitudes .
Moreover , we are no longer able to take the simple sum of the arcs , but we have to add in an algebraic quantity , which is a multiple of the products of the sines of the three amplitudes .
The comparison of hyperbolic arcs hitherto has been matter of still greater complexity , as it has been usually handled simply by reducing each hyperbolic arc to two elliptic arcs .
The complexity , of course , is thus doubled .
It seemed to me , however , that the ellipse is so completely the analogue of the hyperbola , and that it is so easy to pass from one to the other by an imaginary transformation , that a similar analogy ought to pervade the comparison of their arcs .
Hence that there must exist some formula for the comparison of hyperbolic arcs , as simple as that for elliptic arcs .
A slight modification of Jacobi 's second theorem has enabled me to find the analogue which I required .
If we take Euler 's elliptic equation , and substitute the following changes , cosine of amplitude into secant of amplitude , sine of amplitude inlto tangent amplitude X V1 sine of modulus into cosine of modulus , we leave the equation entirely unaltered , except in form .
Even this form may be obtained directly by a simple transformation , of purely algebraic character .
Hence it follows that all the consequences of this imaginary transformation are allowable .
If we apply these transformations to the elliptic integral of the first kind , we have Jacobi 's second theorem .
If we apply them to the integral of the second kind , which represents the elliptic arc , we pass , after an obvious reduction , to the arc of the hyperbola .
The algebraic addition to the sum of the arcs is simply changed from a product of sines to a product of tangents .
Other considerations enable us to verify the theorem , when once it is obtained .
These verifications are merely algebraic , and would scarcely be intelligible if read aloud .
710 I have made use of my formulae in the reduction of one class of the elliptic integral of the third kind for the purposes of tabulation .
In its ordinary form , this function has three variables , and , as Legendre justly remarks , a table of treble entry would be intolerable .
If , therefore , it is to be tabulated at all , the first step in the question is to reduce it to a form involving two variables .
By the help of some theorems of Jacobi , Legendre succeeded in effecting this where the elliptic function of the third kind has its parameter negative and less than the square of the modulus .
By the help of my formula , I have succeeded in reducing the case where the parameter is negative and greater than unity .
The steps are the mere counterpart of Legendre 's work in the second supplement of the treatise on Elliptic Functions .
Both Legendre 's case and mine are of the logarithmic form , and can therefore be reduced to one another by algebraic transformation .
The cases where the parameter is positive , or negative and interimediate between unity and the square of the modulus , are still unreduced .
The difficulty is exactly analogous to that between the two cases of cubic equations , and this analogy is even carried into the very form of the solution .
Dr. Booth 's application of the trigonometry of the parabola to the reducible case of the cubic equation , affords some hope that a correlative calculus may exist , particular cases of which may solve the cases now irreducible , just as the calculus of elliptic functions includes the trigonometry both of the parabola and the circle .
My own investigations on this subject are still without any useful result .
Let cos 1 =cos 2 cos C 3-sin 92 sin 3 1V -sin2 0 sin2 % ; ES ( 1-sin2 0 sin2 )si2 Eq= ( 1 -sin2 0 sin2 ) ) do , fo= ____ cos2 Odf fp ( 1 sin2 0 sin ' 0 ) cos2a0d ' ( 1 ) Fi1--F2 + F3= 0 Euler .
( 2 ) Eq-l-E2 + E-3=si-2 0sin 0 sin 02 sin s ( 3 ) Y01 -Yp2+Y3 .
= -cos2 0 tan q0 tan P2 tan ( P3 .

