]\gt ; IV .
On Received ) , ] OI .
TEIE behaviour of air and other gases at low sities is )ject w ) esents peculiar difficulties to the experimenter , and highly discrepant results been arrived at as to the relationls between density and pressure .
While NDELEEF and SIIJERSTRoM have announced considerable deviations from BOYLE'S law , finds that law verified in the case of air to the full degree of accuracy that the obseryations admit of In principle AMAGAT'S method is very simple .
The consists mainly of two nearly equal bulbs , one bove the other connected by a comparatively .
By the rise of mercul.y from ] mark below the lower bulb to another on the connecting ) , the is altered in a known ratio which is nearly that of 2 : 1 .
The esponding p with a constructed differential nometer .
Of the lower part penetrates the mercury of the cistern is .
Near the top it divides into a widening at the level of the of the mercury into tubes of 2 centims. diameter .
Higher up again these tubes re-unite ] by means of tap connected either with an air-pump or with the upper bulI ) .
Suitable ) yided by which the two branches be from lother .
the o tions one branch is vacuous and the other communicates with the enclosed , so that the difference of leyels represents the pressure .
This difference is by a cathetometer .
It is evident that when the pressure is very low the ) difficulty to the measurement of this quantity , that in to volume and temperature are of little ) tance .
, fnlly alive to is aspect of the matter , took extraordinary pains with the nometer the cathetometer by which it was read .
An insidious error enter from the ctio of the walls of the tubes through which the mercury surfaces are seen .
But after all his precautions AMAGAT found that he could not C0U1lt upon anything less than 'Ann .
de Chimie , ' vol. 28 , p. 480 , 1883 .
16.3 .
1901 , even in the means of readings .
It may be well to give his words ( p. 494 ) :\mdash ; " " Dans les experiences dontje donnerai plusloin les resultats numcriques , les ions sont faites en general en alternant cinq fois les lectures sir lnenisque ; les lectures etaient faites au demi-centieme , et les divergences dans les sories oscillent ordinairement entre un centieme et un et demi ; en prenant moyenne , il no faut pas compter sir plus d'un ; et cela , bien entendu , sans tenir count des causes d'erreur independantes de la lectul .
C cathctometrique . . . . . .
Les resultats numeriques consignes Tableaux que je vais donner maintenant sont -menres la moyenne de plusieurs expcriences ; car , outre que les lectures ont ote faites en general cinq fois en alternant , on est toujours , apres nvoir reduit le volume a moitie , revenu au volume primitif , ) au volume moitio : chaque experience a donc etc faite aux moins deux fois , et souvent trois et quatre The the final results for air : \mdash ; iuce , as it would ppear , the " " initial\ldquo ; pressure is the smaller of a pair , the lowest ) ressure concerned is about 3 millim. of mercury , and the error at this stage is.abont 3 per cent. It is not quite clear which is which of and .
For while it is expressly stated that is smaller than the nature of is given I think that this is really the value of .
But any lingering doubt that may be felt upon point of no consequence here , inasmuch as AMAGAT'S comment upon the tabular numbers is " " On no saurait donc se prononcer , ni sir les sens ni meme sir l'existence de ces ecarts After such elaborate treatment by the greatest authority in these matters , the question would probably have long remained where AMAGAT left it , had not C. BOHR So far as I ) ware , no attempt to repeat BOHR'S difficult and remarkable experiments has been recorded , but some confirmation of anomalous behaviour of oxygen in this region pressure is afforded the observations of RAMSAY and BALY .
* the results as a " " Spontaneous of Oxygen into a Type of Dissociation and connects therewith some observations of relating to adiometer -ects in oxygen gas .
the other hand , chemical tests ) plied by Professor THRELFALL and Miss failed to indicate the ) resence of one in suitably expanded oxygen .
' for very Pressures .
spite ( the intercst to the anolnaly encountered by BOHR , I should hardly have ventured to attack the question experimentally myself , had I not seen my way to what promised to be an improved method of dealing with very small pressures .
In operations connected with the weighing of gases , extending over a series of years , I have had much experience of a specially constructed Iletric 5erauge in which an iron rod provided aboye and below with suitable oints is applied to the two mercury surfaces arranged so as to be situated in the Although two variable quantities had to be adjusted\mdash ; of the and the supply of mercury\mdash ; no serious difficulty was ; and the delicacy in the observation of the approximation of a oint ttlld its in the mercury surface with the assistance of an eye-lens of 25 millims. focus was very .
In order to get actual measures of the delicacy , a hollow lass aaratus in the form of a fork was mounted ) a levelling table .
The stalk was terminated with a short length of rubber tulung cssible by .
This allowed the supply of mercury to be adjusted .
The the were about 20 millims. in diameter , and were exposed to the .
They were to be adjusted to coincidence with needle points , rigidly connected to the glass-work , by suitable use of the compressor and of the screw of the levelling table .
of the latter in successive and independent settings that a degree of accuracy was attainable much supel.ior to the limit fixed by the best the cathetometel .
It is unnecessary to record bers obtained at this stage of the work , inasmuch as the final results to be given below prove that the errors of setting are considerably less than millim. It will now be ) to form ) relilninary idea of the proposed manometer .
dings of the levelling screw , obtained as above , 11lay be regarded as corre ' vol. 38 , p. 301 , 1894 .
'Phil .
' vol. 43 , p. 201 , 1897 .
' .
Soc. of Ncw South Walcs , ' " " On the Dolsibies of the Gases ' .
Soc vo153 , p. 134 , 1893 .
AND ON LAW OF SUlt 20,9 sponding to the zero of pressure , or rather of pressure difference .
If the pressures operative upon the mercury surfaces be slightly different , the setting is disturbed ; and the change of reading at the screw required to re-establish the adjustment represents the difference of pressures .
In order to interpret the result absolutely it is only necessary to know further the pitch of the levelling screw , the leverage with which it acts , and the distance between the points to which the mercury surface , set .
If the space over one mercul.y surface be vacuous , the of the levelling screw represents the absolute in the ovel other mercury surface .
The difficulty , which will at once itself to the mind of the reader , in the use of a manometer on this } ) , is ecessity f a flexible connection the instrument and the rest of the apparatus , such as the the vessel which the pressure is to be known .
With the of lengths of rubber tubing this requirement could be easily , but the class of such a manometer is wanted would usually ) clude the use of rubber .
In apparatuht the requisite flexibility is obtained by the insertion considerable lengths of glass tnbi n between the manometer and the parts which not turn with it .
Although the adjustment was made by the screw of a table as ) the actual readings were taken by the mirror method , the supports of the lnirror being connected as directly as possible with the points angular motion is to be egistered .
In this way we become independent of the rigidity of the glass-work , and are permitted to use eely in levelling table and in its ) ) .
lt frequently happened that an adjnstment leit c5rrect was found to be out after interval .
The screw had not been lnoved , but the ) reading was altered .
On resetting use of the screw , the original lnirl .
Ol.-reading was within the limits of error .
The essential parts of lnan )lneter , as finally employed , are shown ( fig. 2 ) in eleyation and plan , the general scheme of the unting is indicated in fig. 3 .
At A is the stalk of the glass fork , of such length that the nlel .
CUl.y in the hose below is always at a pressure tnlosphere ; are bulbs of about 25 millims. diameter , IO ON of are situated ) .
These are of which need ltot be ; and they must ) carefully finished upon a stone .
A considerable degl.ee of is desirable , but is more important than the extreme of pness .
In the actual apparatus complete similarity not attained , and trials ence rather ) ever , little -et to in constant is consideration that ) differences old not to .
It that the at the time of adjustment , in it to it to points to be at whon it could uvoided .
Aftel such a owning it WiJS usually ( 1 ) ) ) by the of the contact , an effect attributed to electl.ification .
of the ) 1 of the oint to its been eflectio in the tUliued the of similar eyeof lllillinls .
ation , from a small gas flame .
were by fine screw compressors upon the pendent part of the hose , but the tremors thence arising found very .
A remedy eventually applied by operating upon the pal't of the hose which lies flat ) the .
or rather on the bottom of a mercul y. The coJn p is t ) ; o screw being provided with a ndle H to it within convenient The accruing from this small device would scarcely be credited .
The glass-work is attached by celnent to a hich hangs downwards in ) .
of the observer and is itself fixed rigidly to the levclling stand K. This supported at two points I , which define the axis of rotation , and by a adjustable scrcw within reach of the observer .
The whole stands in very steady position upon the floor of an underground cellar in my country lrouse .
' The arrangements for the connection of the mirror must now be described .
The glass stems , whose lower extremities form " " points are prolonged upwards by .
substantial tubing , and ninate a ) in three rounded end , , suitable for the support of the mirror )latfor N. The two supports necessal.y on the are obtained by a branching of the tube on that side .
The ) is of orked glass , so that a slight displacement of the contacts has no on the slope of the mirror .
The latter is of worked ered in .
Suitable stops are provided to guide the mirror platforln into the and to accidents , but these exercise no constraint .
The axis I I about which the apparatus rotates is horizontal and parallel to the face of the , so that the sine of the of rotation from the zero position represents the difference oflevels of the .
The axis I I approximately in the mirror face and at about the middle of the height of operative part .
The rotation ofths mirror is obseryed in the usual way by means of a telescope and vertical millimetre scale .
The aperture ) the )-glass is 30 illiJlls .
, and the distance from the mirror 3150 millims. } tnken bout millim. @ kinds of observation the can only be verified at intervals , as it requires the essures over the mercury to be equalised .
On the whole the zero was tolerably constant to within two or three-tenths of a millimetre of the scale .
level attached to telescope to give warning of any displacement of the stand ( of metal ) or of the ground .
The differences of to be evaluated are not quite in simple proportion to the scale reading from zero .
The latter varies as , while the former varies as .
The correcting factor is \mdash ; \mdash ; approximately .
If the zero reading ( in be the CUl.rent reading the distance veen t approximately ; so that the is The actual COl.rectio to be applied to is thus practice rarely exceeded 350 , for which the correction would be When falls below 120 , the correction is insensible .
next question is the reduction to absolute measure .
What ( COl.rected ) scaleding COl.tesl ) Ollds to 1 illim .
actual difference of mercul.y levels ?
The distance between the points is millims. , so that 1 millim. mercury corresponds to 231 millims. of the telescope scale .
The highest pressure that could be dealt with is about millims. of mercul.y .
The above reckoning proceeds upon the supposition that the distance between the points can be regarded as invariable .
Certain small discrepancies manifested at the higher slopes of the apparatus induced me to examine the question more particularly , for it seemed not impossible that owing to the bending of the glass-work some displacement might occur .
But a rather troublesome measurement of the actual distance in various positions by means Of microscopes negatived this idea .
I would however recommend that this point be kept ) ecially in view in the design of any subsequent appal.atus of this kind .
AND ON THE LAW OF PRESSURE{ OF GASES , ] Experiments to det the Relation of Pressure Volume at Temperature .
In order to test BOYLE'S law one of the lateral branches is connected to the air .
pump and the other to the chamber in which the gas is contained .
The pump is of the Toepler form , and is provided with a bulb containing phosphoric anhydride .
No ontracted evenes beommunicates wpparatus c under mercury more than a barometer-height belo The two sides of the appal.atusal.e connected by a -tube which can be closed : or opened by means of a tap .
The plug of this tap is provided with a wide bore .
When it is intended to the , the tap is open .
If desired , the mercury may be raised ioepler sreventWhen pressul.observed , apthe penetration oheadof ttube ilosed , good vacuum is made on the side .
No particular difficulty was experienced with the vacuum .
In the use of the Toeplel the mercury was allowed to out below , was transferred at intervals to the lnovable r. The latter was protected atmospheric moisture by of tube .
When , after standing five or ten minutes , the mercury was put ovel , and , impact , gave a metallic sound with inclusion of no more than small speck of , the yacuum was nearly sufficient , and no further change could be detected the .
The capacity of the pumphead was two or three times that of the ining s to be exhausted .
In the earlier experiments the gas-containing tube , placed vel.tically , was to 50 cub. centims. at intel.vals of 10 cub. centinls .
olonged below by more than barometer-height of smaller tubing , it a hose aIldmel.cul.y reservoir , the latter protected by chloride of calcium .
In ordel to get rid of most of the adherent moisture and carbonic anhydride , the tubes on both sides of the were heated pretty strongly in a yacuous condition .
The first trial was with oxygen in the hope of at once obtaining a confirmation of BOHR'S anonnaly ; uot in this , I fell back upon nitrogen and hydrogen .
With a on the pump side , readings of pressure were taken with the mercul.y in the chamber at cub. centims. , and the ratio of pressures : 1 ) , deduced .
When this had been repeated , some of the gas was allowed to escape by opening the cross-tap , the was again observed , and the vacuum re-established on the side .
Anothel ratio of pressures could now be obtained , corresponding to sillle ( unknown ) yolunnes its before , but to a different total pressure .
In utilising the ratios of pressure thus obtained , it was of coul.se necessary to consider how far the temperature could be assu1ned to be unchanged within each of pressures brought into comparison .
The general temperature of the cellar was extremely uniform , and no difference could be read upon : into this question for the present , may consider how far the results COllfol.med to } .
The greement of the atios , except , perhaps , essures of about .
of nlel.cury , sufficiently good , and of itself to confirm BOYLE'S .
In strictness , that the constancy of is relation ] ) etween 1 ) ehSllre ( ) and density ( p ) is of the . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) , here ?
is quantity .
To limit ?
to the value unity , the constancy of the be owed up into of for which POyLE'S law is to , but reely be to don here .
Otherwise , lye the ratio of densities in the ) of the cury 1eally is , and not it constant .
the of the volume ) the the method loyed .
vohune , defined by the ) pel.mal.k in ] ) volume { ube and by the ' ' \ldquo ; in the , was fitted with air a known tmospheric pressure .
The included air was then isolated and expanded until it occupied the larger proxilnately double volume , and the new determined by observation of difference of levels in the tube in it ilarly fashioned .
tion was rather a difficult one , and the result was only barely accurate ratio of volumes thus determined by use of BOyLE'S law , as applied to and half atmospheric pressures , agreed sufficiently well with the ratio of pressures found by the neter for rare hydrogen and nitrogen ; and thus may be considered to be extended to these rare gases .
The rarefaction down to a of only nlillim .
At this discrepancies of the order of 5 .
cent. to be expected .
obtained results with and ogen , I returned to , fully .
to verify the anomalous behaviour described by BOHR .
In this 1 totally iled .
) repared by ting ] ) ermang nate of potash , by anhydride , and be .
as pure .
The region essure 1ound Dlilli]l .
refully examined , use made of the interdiyisions of the ) cub. of volume .
No unsteadiness of the kind indicated by , or appreciable rture f BOYLE'S , was detected .
And when the pressures were ished d to few hundredths of a millimetre , there no ofl in ) oduct of pressure volume .
observations eated a second time ) of oxygen .
The experience gained up to this date that the 1nanometer worked well , and that was no difficulty about the vacuum , but I was not altogether satisfied the } in volumes had been determined .
There some want of elegance , to say the least , in using BOYLE'S law for this purpose , adequate accuracy in the ap plication itself .
The latter objection might corresponding to yolumes the pressures were We have now only to calculate V from the equation ' ; whence cub. centims. The adopted value , del.ivedfi.omobsel.vations upon nitrogen and hydrogen , is cub. centims. In the appal.atus , the first step is to make a good vacuum throughout , the cross-tap being open .
The gas supl ) being started , the first portions are allowed to off from under mercury , and then , by use of the three-way tap , a sufficiency is introduced into theap})aratus to absolute ) essure of , perhaps , 10 centims. of ]nercul.y .
The gas-leading tnbe would then be sealed off Ultimately the remainder of the supply tube and the blow-off tube vere exhausted to diminish the risk of leakage .
The " " nitrogen\ldquo ; ) ared f air over red-hot copper and tion with ) anhydride .
ingly it contained argon to the amount of about 1 .
cent. taking a set of obsel.vations the old be as follows .
Assurance having been obtained that vacuum good , the next step would be to set the mercury in the volume chamber so that v ) .
centims. , then after a few minutes to adjust the sloping anometel .
and to read the telescope scale .
It was of course necessary to ensure that sufficient time was allowed for mity of pressure to establish itself , and observations were frequently enewed after quarter of an hour or longer .
In the case of oxygen , to be considered later , sevel.al hours allowed .
If operations were leisurely nducted , with first a rough setting of the and then a rough setting of the nometer followed accurate settings in the same order , little no ) ange could afterwards be detected .
Indeed I was rather } ) rised to find how seemed to be established .
The next volum ) , e..q .
, , would then be observed , and so until .
In observations to be used the exanl of BOYLE'S law was not further reduced , too much might thereby be thrown upon the accuracy of V. The same observations were then repeated in reverse order and the mean taken .
The numbers rded are thus the mean of two settings only of the manometer .
next } ) to allow ] lalf t to escape .
The mel.cury at the allowed to rise ) cut the -head was so adjusted to be equal to the ining u the othel side , about 130 cub. centims. -tap then opened , il sufficient intel.val of time the zero , onding t no presSure , was read .
Tn the course of the observations upon TABLE II .
ogen .
Novelnbel 11-12 , Zero Prcss.centims .
VVVVV VOL. CXCVI . .
2 ' ISfANOMETER , November , Deviation Error of of .
in millims. 000 0000 000 0000 0005 0004 IV .
V. en . .
og . .
og . .
og . .
og .
lnillinls . . .
Ob7 . .
04 .
rror o AND ON LAW GASES , TABLE VI.\mdash ; Nitrogen .
November 17-18 , Zero centims. VII .
\mdash ; Nitrogen .
Novembel \mdash ; of of 1in In the second set the quantity of been ilHted tssul ( with .
It is from it the ) calculation of already give ] ] .
These tables giye a fairly complete account of the behaviour of nit ] pressure of about millims. down to .
[ 1 each set the of pressure is nearly in the atio of ,3 : oyerlaps ) the ceding and following sets .
An examination of the fiftb shows 1 of departure from BOYLE'S law .
The sixth colulll allows a ) of the degree of accuracy to the law is ified .
It the lnount by which exceeds the value necessary in order that should be bsolutely constallt , expressed in millimetres of mercury .
The thus exhibited include not only those arising in the setting of the manometer and the eading of the telesco } , but also those in the measurements of volume , in of fluctuations of temperature .
The latter source of error is of more the igher pressures .
It will be seen that the accuracy attained } very t the higher pressures the mean error is only , while ' sures of Tables .
the mean error is less than millim. Aud it must be remembered that the numbel .
S to which these errors relate are the means of tpuo observations only .
As means of dealing with very small pressures , the ) manometer has proved itself in high satisfactory , the performance being some twenty-five times ) ettel .
than AMAGAT'S standard .
It could hardly have been expected that the error would prove to ) less than one wave-length of yellow light .
* Considered its a pressure , the meanl error corresponds to the of barometric pressure elevation serie of observations been carried out .
The that ) ) given is not in some the most satisfactory , but it is chosen as ) ursued to greatest larefactions .
The gas tyas dried refully with was introduced into the apparatus as already ( .
It is sufficient to ecord only numl ) to the three last columns of bles 1 , the the pressure in lllillin ] .
) ercur the second the deviation of from the mean value of the unity , third the in 1 ' from what would be required to make constant .
* I had at one time contemplated an apparatus from which a furthor ten-fold increase in accurac might be expected .
Two beams of light , reflected ncarly from the mercury surfaces , would be brought to interference by an arrangement similar to that used in estigating the refractivity of gases Proc. .
Preliminary trials proved that the lnethod is feasible ; but the delicacy is excessive in view of the fact that nccording to HERTZ the pressure of mercury vapour common temperatures itself amounts to 001 millim. ON OF , FT VIII.\mdash ; Hydrogen .
Octobel.-November , 1900 .
In several of the sets be a tendency .
the positive to the c. , to diminish with 1 ) .
] tq ) the distance between the glass points of the as has been related , the suspicion was verified .
It is.just ) that rber pressures and smaller volulnes the changes not It is probable vonld o in the direction mentioned , a at smaller volumes it proportion of would ] ) in tubes at a level in the rooln , ) tion taken , and I was not to myself that tltce ( really existed .
In another series of observations on ] tendency scarcely app arent , and it remains doubtful whether there real indication of departure from .
It may be noted thnt interest rather upon the lower pressures , that erhaps less pains were taken LORI ) ] ON ) oi higher pressures , where in any case the error would be a smaller proportion of the whole .
Also some of the observations were not repeated .
Another point may be noted is that the means are chosen with respect to the values of , and that a different choice would in many cases materially reduce the mean error in the last column .
thoroughly tested the apparatus and the method of experimenting with nitrogen , I returned with curiosity to the case of oxygen .
Special pains were taken to ensure that the should be pure and above all dry .
To this end glass tubes were prepared containing ) nganate of potash and phosphoric nhydride , and these were connected by ] to one of the branches of the 3-way .
A yacuum having been made throughout , heat was gradually applied , ( some of the oxygen allowed to blow off .
The phosphoric tube ( of considerable pacity ) was then allowed to stand full of gas for some little time , after which to of centims. allowed to enter the by of the ] .
With to the lnaintenance of urity of efaction , elnarked t the method of experimenting able , much the not reached until the had been } ) OHed to the gas undel trial for a week or two .
Any contion t be communicated the glasH dnring the first few days VOllld f the most part be emoved } ) efore the final stages were reached .
the ular Heries commenced , special obselvations extending over lltade in the region of ( fro ] ] 1 millim. to 5 millim. ) where .
No steady I could ) detected .
Whateyer reading nteH of confirmed after , on Novelnber the pressure stood for hOllle time .
was lowered to 65 millim. At unaltered .
In no was in way different to that had been observed the othel .
It is true that when the tionH w reduced set showed { in excess of pressure at the smaller yolumes .
to that recorded in the of hydrogen , but the tendency is scarcely in to be given , whicI ] extended from to ecenber An examination of thenunbel .
H in the .
shows that BOYLE'S law was bserved , practically up to the limits of the accul.acy of the measurements , and in ticular that was no off in the value of ' at low pressures as was encountered by BOHR .
What can be the cause of the difference of our experiences I am at a loss to conjectul.e .
I can only suppose that it must be connected somehow with the quality of , complicated ) ) by interaction the the llelculy .
1$ en .
The final result ) ) on be be , full confirlnation of between ) of millims. and ] ] ] .
of .
If is any , it caHP ) to press somewhat in excess the ] ) .
But when ) IHidertl , e smallness ) the the various tions t it ) ( prio ' ) ) , we the ] ) law existence .
the present esults c. ( they tify ) tl use of nitrogen hydrogen ) might be ; but until discrepancy the conclusions of ) , the eserves must be dmitted .
case the ) ) capable } ) ) ) It conlHt ] llcted )

