]\gt ; [ 409 ] XI .
Determination of the Number of Electrostahc Units in the Electromagnetic Unit made in the Physical Laboratory of Glasgow University .
DUGALD KICHAN , M.A. Communicated by Sir WILLIAM THolfsoN , P.R.S. Received April \mdash ; Read May 15 , 1873 .
FHE object of the following paper is to describe observations made to determine the elation between the fundamental units in the electromagnetic and electrostatic systems absolute measurement .
These observations were made at intervals from 1870 to 1872 , first in the Physical aboratory of the Old College , Glasgow , and afterwards in that of the New College .
In the former series of experiments I had the advantage of the assistance of the late VILLIAM LEITCH , of Glasgow* .
The latter series I made chiefly with the assistance of A. HILL , M.A. , now Assistant Professor of Natural Philosophy in Harvard ollege , U. S. A summary is also given of the results of similar experiments made by Mr. WILLIAM R. KING in the Old College in 1867 and 1868 .
The two systems of absolute electrical measurement are founded on the fundamental mits of time , mass , and space applied to the observed effects of electricity at rest and lectricity in motion , the one system having a definite numerical relation to the other .
number of electrostatic units in the electromagnetic unit of quantity , from the limensions of the unit of quantity in the two systems , is expressible as a velocity , and usually designated by the symbol In the Report of the British Association 's Committee on Electrical Measurements , 1863 , five possible methods are enumerated for experimentally determining .
It is necessary and sufficient that we should obtain a common electromagnetic and electrostatic measure of some electric quantity , current , resistance , electromotive force , or capacity .
The first numerical determination of had been made by WEBER and KOHLRAUSCH who had employed the method last indicated : they derived the value of from a common measure of capacity .
The capacity of a condenser was measured electrostatically by comparison with the capacity of a sphere of known radius , and electronetically by passing the discharge from the condenser through a galvanometer .
The value of derived from their experiments was centimetres per second .
Mr. LBITCK afterwards went out to introduce Sir WnLIAN TIIONSON'S Siphon-recorder at the various st tions of the Eastern Telegraphs .
He died on his way home , at Alexandria , after he had completed his work .
POGG .
Ann. , Aug. 1856 , Band xcix .
p. 10 .
OF ELECTROSTATIC UNITS IN THE ELECTROMAGNEIIC UNIT .
411 New Absolute Electrometer is.identical in principle with the Absolute Electrometer lescribed in the Report of the British Association , 1867 .
The principal improvements the new instrument are the introduction of a new sighting arrangement , by which 'rrors from parallax are avoided , the substitution of a metal disk supported by springs the disk balanced by a counterpoise , and the addition of an idiostatic gauge and a eplenisher , by means of which the charged disk can be maintained at a constant potential .
this instrument the force of attraction between two disks of known area at a constant lifference of potentials is measured in grammes weight .
The difference of potentials )etween the two poles of a battery can thus be measured , and the area , force , and distance Ieing known , can be expressed in absolute electrostatic units of space , time , and mass .
these measurements the units employed w unit of mass the gramme , for unit time the second , and for unit of space the centimetre .
The strength of the current was measured by the force acting between two portions itself in the circuit of an electrodynamometer ( see Plate XXXII .
figs. \amp ; ) This ircuit consisted of three coils , two large fixed coils , and a third smaller coil ( c ) [ lovable round a vertical axis .
The larger coils contained each upwards of 3700 metres fine silk-covered wire wound upon brass rings , 30 centims. in diameter , with parallel anges about centims. broad .
The two contained on an average 3700 turns of wire each , the depth of the coils eing somewhat less than2 centims. and the breadth of the rings being 2 centims. One nd of the wire in each , before winding , was soldered to the ring , the ring thus forming of the terminals of the coil .
The two coils were placed on an oblong wooden edestal ( ( supported on three screws ) with their planes vertical and parallel to one nother , the linejoining their centres being perpendicular to the plane of each coil .
[ he rings were fitted to wooden concave supports to which they were secured by wo bars of wood resting across the rings on the inside , and firmly attached by neans of screws to the wooden stand .
The parallelism of the coilswas preserved , as far possible , by means of stout hard-wood bars of equal length ( i ) inserted at intervals )etween the rings perpendicular to the planes of the coils .
To secure the most uniform nagnetic field in the neighbourhood of the coils , the HELMJIOLTZ arrangement of the coils vas chosen , the distance from centre to centre of the coils being approximately equal to , heir radius .
The movable or suspended coil ( c ) consisted of upwards of 900 metres of finer wire .
brass ring upon which it was wound was centims. in diameter , and had flanges centims. broad .
It contained upwards of 3000 turns of wire , the depth of the coil being 2 centims. and its thickness centim. This movable coil , which was suspended between the two fixed coils , was protected from disturbing currents of air by a wooden box ( k ) which stood between the two fixed coils , being fastened to the stand on which they rested .
On one side perpendicular to the planes of the coils this box was left open ; and after the coil had been suspended , glass screen was introduced .
Subsequently , to prevent any error from distortion of the OF ELEOTROSTATIC UNITS IN THE ELECTROMAGNETIC UNIT .
413 etism , and the deflections due to equal and opposite currents were as nearly as possible equalised .
If it had been possible to adjust the magnets so as exactly to counterbalance the lirective component of the earth 's magnetism , these deflections would have been exactly qual ; but a slight discrepance between the deflections remained after the adjustment the magnets .
This remaining discrepance was eliminated in the calculation by taking he mean between the two deflections .
These deflections , which were measured according to the usual method by reflection , vere read off on a scale Plate XXXII .
( divided to fortieths of an inch ) placed at distance of 3 or 4 metres from the coil .
The light ( from a gas-lamp constructed like paraffin-lamp with glass shade \amp ; c. supported on awooden frame attached to the table which the electrodynamometer stood ) was reflected from a light circular mirror ( m ) emented to the lower part of the front of the movable coil .
The lamp ( a ) was placed , bout midway between the electrodynamometer and the scale , the reflected rays passin mder it from the mirror away to the scale .
The rays reached the mirror after passing hrough a condensing-lens ( c ) attached to a long telescope-tube ( b ) , the position of which , elatively to the lamp and mirror , was adjusted by moving the tripod stand ( d ) to which its upports were attached .
The lamp carried a metal screen with slit and fine wire stretched cross the slit ; and the deflections were noted , as in reflecting galvanometers and electro(leters , from the positions of the shadow of this wire in the reflected image .
To render these deflections available for absolute measurement , it was necessary to in mechanical units the force required to maintain the coil deflected through any [ iven angle .
This force is given by the equation of oscillations in terms of the perion vibration and the moment of inertia of the coil round its vertical axis .
The period vibration of the coil was determined from a series of 110 periods .
The times of the irst 10 and the last 10 having been noted , and the differences of the times of the 1st the , the 2nd and the \amp ; c. having been taken , the average period of 'ibration for the whole series was very accurately determined .
As the deflections to be )bserved in the actual measurements were made in a magnetic field with the coil deflected its zero-position , these observations of the period were repeated with the coil leflected under the influence of the current about to be used in the comparison .
esult differing by nearly per cent. was sometimes obtained .
This determination of he period of vibration of the coil generally repeated before any lengthened series observations .
The moment of inertia of the coil round its vertical axis was obtained from a com)arison of its vibrations with those of a symmetrical body of the same weight vibrating Jnder the same conditions .
The coil having been carefully weighed , a vibrator of the weight was constructed .
The vibrator consisted of a cylindrical brass ring ( radius centims. ) and a light brass bar attached at its extremities to the riug .
This was made to vibrate , in an enclosed space protected from currents of air , round an axis perpendicular to the plane of the ring , the suspending-wire being attached to the centre of the OF ELECIROSTATIC UNITS IN THE ELECTROlfAGNETIC UNIT .
V'difference of potentials between the disk and the opposed plate connected with the other pole of the battery .
distance through which the opposed plate has to be moved from its zero position to bring the disk again into the sighted position after one of the poles of the battery has been connected with the opposed plate .
distance through which the opposed plate has to be moved from its zero position to bring the disk again into the sighted position after the other pole of the battery has been connected with the opposed plate .
hen difference of potentials between the two poles of the battery .
It was not necessary to obtain and separately , being given in the difference tween the two electrometer readings got by connecting first one pole of the battery then the other with the lower plate of the electrometer .
The mechanical displacement due to was determined by along series of experiments , which a known weight was distributed over the disk and the displacement of the disk )served .
The average result of the later weighings was that micrometertvisions represented the displacement due to a force of 6 gramme weight .
A similar lries of observations in the Laboratory of the Old College gave as the average splacement .
In the comparisons then made was employed , but the difference eing only that of per cent. is inconsiderable .
II .
Electrodynamometer .
Let number of turns on the two fixed coils respectively .
mean radii of the fixed coils .
distance of the mean plane of the fixed coils from the centre of the movable coil , or half the distance of the mean planes from one another .
strength of current in the coils .
and are the effective lengths of wire in the coils .
Let and angles subtended at the centre of the movable coil by the radii of the xed coils .
Then the effective component of the magnetic force at the centre of the movable coil to the fixed coils is For each of the coils the following correction for breadth and depth of the coils given Professor CLERK MAXWELL* is to be employed .
Art .
700 . .
OF ELECTBOSTATIC UNITS IN THB ELECTROMAGNETIC UNIT .
417 The solution of this equation gives ( period of vibration of the coil ) , and .
( 3 ) Let 7strength of current which gives a deflection of one scale-division .
The deflection of the reflected image being twice the deflection of the coil , the elastic ouple corresponding to a deflection of one scale-division is E. .
( 4 ) Equating ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) , we have .
( 5 ) Equation ( 5 ) gives 7 in terms of units of space , time , and mass .
It is seen also from his equation that the deflection produced by a current passing through the coils of the lectrodynamometer is proportional to the square of the strength of the current .
ccordingly the strength of current indicated by any given deflection is obtained by )ultiplying the value of 7 given in ( 5 ) by the square root of the number of scale .
ivisions in the deflection .
.Results of the Comparison .
I. The following is a summary of the results obtained by Mr. KING , from a comparison measurements with the Electrodynamometer and the ( old ) Absolute Electrometer:\mdash ; 867 .
Nov. 18-27 .
viously compared wbsoluteElectrometer ( indirect)dard Ewhich .
Dec. 3-20 .
bsolute Electrometer .
868 .
Mar. 10-Apr .
7 .
Direct Comparison . .
Apr. 20-30 .
May 1-10 Direct Comparison . . . . .
Mean value of given by this comparison , leaving out the two first sets ( which were aken under very unfavourable circumstances ) , is centims. per second .
II .
The comparisons which were made during March 1870 in the Laboratory of the ld College were preceded by some alterations in the electrodynamometer , and a fresh etermination of several of the quantities connected with it .
Resistances wele measured a new set of standard coils , and the old absolute electrometer was snperseded , in the omparison , by the new absolute electrometer already referred to .
The movable coil was resuspended , and a light mirror , the opposite sides of which had ground parallel , was substituted for the heavier mirror that had been formerly ised .
eter .
Temp. C. March 15 , 1870 .
Battery 180 cells .
OF ELECrROSTATIC UNITS THE ELECTROMAGNETIC UNIT .
421 Temp. C. March 23 , 1870 .
Battery 180 cells .
The figures in the electrometer and electrodynamometer columns of the above Tables represent the readings in the arbitrary divisions of the two instruments .
To deduce the value of , these readings were reduced to absolute measure by means of the expressions for and 7 already given .
The resistance introduced into the circuit being equal to that of the coils , half the difference of potentials indicated by the electrometer was employed in the calculations .
III .
The instruments having been removed to the new laboratory , were again set up in the spring of 1871 , but no observations were made till September following .
When the electrometer was set up , a series of weighings was gone through to determine the displacement of the movable disk produced by a given force .
A long series of weighings of May 15th and 16th gave micrometer-divisions as the displacement due gramme .
Before the electrometer was again used in September a longer series of weighings was gone through : this gave as the mean value of the displacement divisions , and this value was adopted in succeeding measurements .
The electrodynamometer was set up in the same manner as formerly : the only alteration was in the manner of the lamp and lens , which were now supported and adjusted in the manner already described .
A new determination was made of the moment of inertia of the suspended coil : this had become necessary from an alteration in the weight of the coil arising from the loss of a part of the mirror .
The moment of inertia of the vibrator with which the coil was compared was centimetre.grammes .
The periods of vibration of the vibrator and coil were and seconds respectively .
This gave as the moment of inertia of the suspended coil centimetre-grammes .
After this comparison the mirror of the coil was resilvered , andwas found to have increased in weight gramme .
With this increase of weight the moment of inertia of the coil became l centimetre-grammes .
The distance of the scale was made centims. The period of vibration of the coil was seconds .
With these alterations the value of became 000020114 .
OF ROSTATIC UNITS IN THE ELECTBOMAGNETIC UNIT .
September 22 , 1871 .
Battery 90 cells .
entims .
September 24 , 1871 .
Battery 90 cells .
September 25 , 1871 .
Battery 90 cells .
entims.cond .
September 26.\mdash ; The period of vibration of the suspended coil was observed and found to be seconds .
The corresponding value of 7 was OF ELECTROSTATIC LN THE ELECTROMAGNETIC UNIT .
425 Determination of the Area of the Movable Before unwinding the coils for the purpose of measuring the length of the wire , and 'ounting the number of turns in each coil , a comparison of the large coils and the susended coilwas made to determine the magnetic moment of the latter .
This quantity , which appears in the calculations as , could not be obtained very accurately by meaurement of the outer and inner radii of the coil , seeing that the difference between these adii was very considerable in comparison with either .
The method of comparison followed was suggested by Professor CLERK ffle simultaneous action of the large coils and the smaller coil upon a magnet placed their neighbourhood was observed .
The distances between the coils and the magnet eing so arranged that the simultaneous action of the opposing coils upon the magnet zero , and these distances being known , the ratio between the areas of the coils was asily obtained .
The chief difficulty being to measure accurately these distances , two ymmetrical observations were made with the smaller coil on opposite sides of the distance between the positions of the same part of the coil in these two obselvations measured , and half this distance taken as the distance of the centre of the coil from he magnet in each position .
The coils ( see Plate XXXII .
fig. 5 ) rested upon a narrow table ( t ) which had been preared for this comparison .
A -groove ( v ) ran from end to end of it parallel to its edge , one side , to guide the adjustment of the magnet and smaller coil .
The stands which the large coils had been attached were placed at opposite ends of the table , and ere so adjusted that the line joining the centres of the coils passed through the centre the The magnet , which had been used as a declinometer , was suspended by along fibre [ 1 an enclosed space .
It carried alight galvanometer-mirror , whose motions were visible hrough a small lens , which formed part of the glass front of the instrument .
The leclinometer , two of its feet resting in the -groove , was placed between the coils , so hat the centre of the mirror or magnet was equidistant from the centres of the large \ldquo ; oils .
" " suspended\ldquo ; coil , supported on awooden stand ( p ) , was placed between the nagnet and one of the large coils , its motions to and from the magnet being guided larallel to itself by the groove in which two of the feet of the stand rested : it was djusted so that its centre also should be in the line joining the centres of the large oils .
The three coils were arranged so as to have their planes parallel , and so that action of the two large coils should conspire to oppose the action of the smaller coil , ivhich was placed much nearer the magnet .
The motions of the magnet were observed the usual manner , by reflection from the mirror .
A current from a battery of 12 cells was made to pass through the three coils in series .
The smaller coil was moved to and fro parallel to itself until no deflection of the magnet could be detected .
During this observation it was found that the magnet was sensitive to the smallest motion the coil that was appreciable .
I[DCCCLXXIII .
3 OF ELECTROSTATIC UNITS THE ELECTROMAGNETIC UNIT .
427 urns in each of the coils , and that the estimate of their electromagnetic effect derived bom this was as nearly as possible accurate .
The mean value of given by all the series of observations of 1870 , which include , lowever , considerable variations , is centims. per second .
The mean result the later comparisons , excluding those which have been mentioned as less trustworthy , centims. per second .
These later observations were made under much more favourable circumstances ; still , the causes of the variations in the earlier comparisons are not known , it has been hought right to include them also in the record of the observations .
The last measurement , that of 1872 , furnishes the most probable value of ' :entims .
per second . .
ML CCCI on , , $rltO7/

