" On certain Phenomena of Voltaic Ignition , and on the Decomposition of Water into its constituent Gases by heat .
" The author refers to an eudiometer , an account of which was published by him in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' for 1840 , formed of a glass tube , into the closed extremity of which a loop of platinum wire was sealed .
The gases to be analysed were mixed in this tube with a given volume of oxygen and hydrogen , and detonated or slowly combined by the voltaic ignition of the platinum wire .
He was thence led to try a further set of experiments on the analysis , by this instrument , of such gases and vapours as are decomposable by heat ; the process being capable of much greater exactness than the received one of passing them through ignited tubes .
The resuits of the analyses of several gases by this means are given in the paper .
When carbonic acid and hydrogen are mixed in equal volumes and exposed to the ignited wire , the hydrogen abstracts oxygen from the carbonic acid , and leaves carbonic oxide .
Conversely , when carbonic oxide is exposed over water to the ignited wire , it abstracts oxygen from the aqueous vapour , and forms carbonic acid .
It thus appeared , that provided there were bodies present capable of absorbing by affinity the elements of water , ignited platinum would either compose or decompose water .
The author was thence led to hope that he might by ignited platinum decompose water into its constituents , without absorption by other bodies , and thus produce converse effects to those already known .
In this he ultimately succeeded by various methods , in some of which the ignition was produced by electrical means ; in others by ordinary calorific processes , such as the oxyhydrogen blowpipe , &amp;c. A platinum wire is ignited at the closed extremity of a species of tube retort , full of pure water , and having a narrowed neck close above the wire ; as soon as the wire becomes incandescent , it forms around itself an atmosphere of vapour which it immediately decomposes ; a natural valve being formed by the conflict of ascending gas and descending water , the bubbles of mixed gas are cut off by an intermittent action , and thus , as their recombination is prevented , a volume of gas collects in the bend of the tube and is ultimately expelled at its orifice .
If , again , a button of platinum be fully ignited by the oxyhydrogen blowpipe , and plunged into water previously heated to nearly its boiling-point , bubbles of mixed gas ascend and may be collected by an inverted tube .
The electrical spark is shown to be capable of decomposing aqueous vapour , and various other modes of producing the same results are given .
Some theoretical views are then advanced as to the spheroidal state which appears to the author to be intermediate between that of ebullition and decomposition ; as to the probable non-existence of water or steam in the interior of the earth , and as to the antagonism between physical repulsion and chemical affinity .
In a supplementary paper , the author considers how far catalysis affects the phenomenon , and regards the decomposition thus produced as presenting a parallel effect produced by the force of heat , to that known to be produced by electricity ; he considers it explanatory of the decomposition of water by the electrical spark as in the experiments of Pearson and Wollaston .
Some further experiments are given , in which iridium and osmium and silica are substituted for platinum ; and also some experiments on the liquids bromine and chloride of iodine , both of which yield pure oxygen when exposed to the ignited wire in Mr. Grove 's apparatus .
These last experiments cannot however be long continued in consequence of these liquids ultimately attacking both the glass and the platinum .
In conclusion , the author calls attention to the general evolution of

