482 The Cultivation of Trypanosoma rhodesiense , Stephens and Fantham .
By H. Bayon , M.D. , Genoa and Wurzburg , Beit Memorial Research Fellow , Lister Institute .
( Communicated by Sir Ronald Ross , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received June 20 , 1912 .
) Employing a strain of Trypanosoma rhodesiense kindly supplied to me by Sir Ronald Ross , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , I have carried out some cultural experiments .
The following media were found to be successful .
( 1 ) Clegg 's Amoeba agar to which is added twice its amount of rabbits ' blood which has been frozen and thawed rapidly so as to cause the haemoglobin to diffuse into the serum ; and ( 2 ) the following formula:\#151 ; agar 15 grm. , glucose 10 grm. , water 1000 grm. , and twice the volume of rabbits ' blood added .
The trypanosomes were taken from sub-inoculated rats on the third day of infection .
Five drops of blood were placed on the agar , which is a diffluent mass resting at the bottom of the culture tube .
These were incubated at 22 ' to 25 ' C. The tubes were examined after five days and then every two days , usually , up to the 30th day .
It was found that if the culture was successful a multiplication of the trypanosomes occurred , which could be seen actually taking place under the microscope .
The trypanosomes were easily recognised as T. rhodesiense because of the size and position of the kinetonucleus , the length and breadth of the posterior end , and the position of the trophonucleus .
This trypanosome was differentiated from other easily culturable trypanosomes , as for example T. lewisi , by inoculation into rats .
0*5 c.c. of the diffluent culture injected intra-peritoneally caused T. rhodesiense to appear in the blood 10 days after inoculation and the rat died in a further five days .
From these rats the.trypanosomes were recovered and again cultivated .
The forms of trypanosomes as commonly seen in these cultures are long and slender with a definite flagellum .
They move sinuously , with the flagellar end first .
The nucleus is longer and narrower than that seen in the blood , and stains with Giemsa 's method a light purple .
Volutin-granules are frequently present .
The kinetonucleus can be seen separated from the blepharoplast and its usual position is somewhat to the side of the trypanosome .
These forms remain actively motile up to the 21st day of cultivation .
They are virulent up to the eighth day of culture in the quantity inoculated as mentioned above .
In certain cases rosette forms are imitated by the trypanosomes clumping together ; however , a little pressure on the cover-glass causes them to separate and to swim away individually .
True brood-forms have also been Recovery of T. gambiense from Tragelaphus spekei .
483 observed and distinguished from those clumped .
In some culture tubes , rounded ( involution ) forms appear in great numbers on the third day to the fifth day , and the virulence and properties of these forms are now being separately studied .
The percentage of successes varies very much indeed\#151 ; from 1 tube in 25 to 6 in 6 .
Numerous other media have been used , giving invariably negative results by the fifth day , including those consisting of frozen and thawed rabbits ' blood serum only .
Further Observations on the Recovery of Trypanosoma gambiense from Tragelaphus spekei on the Islands of Lake Victoria Nyanza By Dr. H. L. Duke .
( Communicated by Sir John Rose Bradford , K.C.M.G. , Sec. R.S. Received July 17 , 1912 .
) In a paper* dealing with the recovery of a trypanosome from wild antelope on Damba Island , Lake Victoria Nyanza , the diagnosis is discussed at some length with a view to the exclusion of T. brucei .
Fifteen subinoculation experiments were considered and the conclusion was arrived at that the available evidence pointed to the organism being T. gambiense .
After a lapse of some four months this opinion has received considerable support from a more prolonged investigation of the animal reactions of the trypanosome .
In the following table many of the original subinoculations are followed to their conclusion on the death of the animal , and several other experiments have been added to the list .
It will be seen that the evidence supplied by the rat experiments is strongly in favour of T. gambiense .
In the six experiments conducted with rats the average duration of the disease is 61 days .
This constitutes very strong evidence against T. brucei .
In guinea-pigs ( three experiments ) the average duration is 67 days : in five completed monkey experiments , 147 days .
* " Antelope and their Relation to Trypanosomiasis , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 85 , p. 15Q .

