]\gt ; Note on the Representation of the by Means of Spherical rnaonics of thoe First Three By A. E. H. LovE , Received Iarch 2 , \mdash ; Read April 30 , 1908 .
) In my paper on " " The Stability of the Eartb , dynamical arguments were adduced in favour of the hypothesis that the distribution of density within the earth is such that the surfaces of equal density present , in addition to the inequalities depending upon the diurnal rotation , other inequalities which can be specified by spherical harmonics of the first , second , and third degrees .
If this is the case , the surface of the earth , by which I mean the snrface of the lithosphere , should , inequalities , and so aJso should the surfaces .
Analytically , if the density is given by an equation of the form , ( 1 ) where , , are metions of the distance from the centre , are spherical surface harmonics of rees indicated by the suffixes , and are small coefficients , then the surface shouid have an equation of the form where and are constants , and the are small .
The elevations and depressions of the lithosphere be , at least in their main features , expressible by a of this type .
The actual elevations and depressions are difficult to determine , because all that can be found by observation is the amount of elevation above , or depression below , a particular equipotential surface , the geoid , or the surface of the ocean , continued beneath the continents .
For a first approximation the potential due to such a distribution of as is expressed by ( 1 ) within a surface expressed by ( 2 ) would be given by formulae of the type , , where the 's are small coefficients and the 's are functions connected with the 's by definite relations .
Such formulae would need correction in the immediate neighbou1hood of the surface , but there can be no doubt 'Phil .
Trans. ' ( A ) , vol. 207 ( 1907 ) , p. 171 .
VOL. LXXX.\mdash ; A. 2 554 Prof. Love .
Or ?
, the of the 's [ Mar. 26 , that the most important terms would be those containing harmonics of the same types , S2 , as occur in the formula for .
We should , therefore , expect that the shape of the earth , as expressed by the continental elevations and oceanic depressions , would be represented , at least in its main features , by a formula of the same type as ( 2 ) : In my paper , cited above , I made a rough spherical harmonic analysis of these elevations and depressions .
Denoting by the colatitude , measured from the North Pole , and by the longitude , measured eastwards from the mel.idian of Greenwich , I wrote , as the most general surface harmonic which contains no terms of degree higher than the third , the expression sin , ( 3 ) and I found for the coefficients the values S24 , S2 , In these equations the ratios of the coefficients , not their absolute values , are representative of the computed elevations and depressions .
The results were recorded in a chalt ( p. 237 ) , concerning which I observed ( p. 238 ) that its chief defects were the absence of any indication of an Arctic ocean and the almost complete submersion of South America .
I stated also that thelc was no doubt that the coefficients could be adjusted to secure a better agreement with the facts .
After a fresh computation of the coefficients , and a somewhat minute study of the elevations and depressions answering to each of the terms of ( 3 ) , I have selected as the best of many tested sets of coefficients* } following:\mdash ; The result is recorded in the annexed chart .
The fine continuous line is a * Adjustments of the coefficients to four digits are not desirable , as nothing more than a rough general agreement is sought .
Some of the harmonic functions in formula ( 3 ) being capable of all values between something near to and to , while others between , a small difference in some coefficients , e.g. , , has more influence on the than a like difference in others , e.g. , 1908 .
] by of Spherical Harmonics , etc. rough outline of the actual land of the globe , drawn in such a way that all degrees of latitude or of longitude have the same value on the map ; the line is the zero line of the surface harmonic with the coefficients here set down ; the dotted line is the contour line along which the computed elevation is equal to one-tenth of its maximum value .
The computed elevation is poeitive almost everywhere in the actual continents , and the zero line runs nearly everywhere in the neighbourhood of a line drawn etween the contour lines of the surface of the earth at 1000 fathoms and 2000 fathoms depth.* The computed elevation is positive within the Arctic Ocean , as it should be , for that ocean belongs to the continental block but it is only moderate there .
It is positive in South Amenca , except the eastern extremity of Brazil , and the freater part of that continent is represented 75 as a region of superior elevation .
Thus the two chief defects of the harmonic representation Doiven in the ) aper above cited are not present in the representation .
In several other parts of the map the of the shape is rather ) etter now than it was before .
The accord of the computed results and the bo.eographical facts to be sufficiently .
to considerable confidence in the theory which led to the conclusion that harmonic inequalities of the first three degrees should be pron ) inent .
[ Added , April take this opportunity of an error in my paper , " " The Gravitational Stability of the Earth already cited .
The * Reference may be made to the bathymetric chart drawn , after Sir John Murray , in Chamberlin and Salisbury 's ' Geology , ' vol. 1 , p. 10 ( London , 1906 ) , or to that drawn , after the Prince of Monaco , in E. ' ' Traite de Geologie , ' vol. 1 , p. 26 ( Paris , 1907 ) .
On the Representation of the Earth 's Surface , etc. equation ( 109 ) , p. 219 , is deduced correctly from the system of equations of type ( 108 ) , and the forms given on pp. 219 , 220 for the quantities are deduced correctly from the equation ( 109 ) , and the condition that the mding surface is free from pressure ; but the system of equations of the type ( 108 ) is not satisfied by these forms for and.cannot be satisfied by any forms in which are multiples of any surface harmonic .
This result means that the state described in the paper as one of " " lateral disturbance with a hemispherical distribution of density\ldquo ; cannot be maintained in a body devoid of rigidity and free from the action of external forces .
It is not cult to show that , in a body of finite rigidity , such a state can be a state of equilibrium ; and that , when the initial state is , as in the paper , one of uniform density and hydrostatic pressure , the two chief features of the strained state are the same as those described the paper .
These features are ( i ) the formula for the excess density , represented graphically in fig. 1 , .
, and ( ii ) the displacement of the surface of the body towards one side and the displacement of the equipotential surfaces towards the other side .
The theory of S 50 , pp. 221\mdash ; 224 , must also be corrected in a similar way ; but the correction does not affect the qualitative result that , when the rotation is taken into account , spherical harmonics of the third degree must be introduced .
]

