PROCEEDINGS O THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
1845 .
No. 62 .
November 27 , 1845 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
" Experimental Researches in Electricity .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Nineteenth Series .
Section 25 : On the Magnetization of Light , and the Illumination of Magnetic Lines of Force .
For a long time past the author had felt a strong persuasion , derived , , from philosophical considerations , that among the several powers of nature which in their various forms of operation on matter produce different classes of effects , there exists an intimate rela , tion ; that they are connected by a common origin , have a reciprocal dependence on one another , and are capable , under certain conditions , of being converted the one into the other .
Already have electricity and magnetism afforded evidence of this mutual convertibility ; and in extending his views to a wider sphere , the author became convinced that these powers must have relations with light also .
Until lately his endeavours to detect these relations were unsuccessful ; but at length , on instituting a more searching interrogation of nature , he arrived at the discovery recorded in the present paper , namely , that a ray of light may be electrified and magnetized ; and that lines of magnetic force may be rendered luminous .
The fundamental experiment revealing this new and important fact , which establishes a link of connexion between two great departments of nature , is the following .
A ray of light issuing from anl Argand lamp is first polarized in the horizontal plane by reflexion from a glass mirror , and then made to pass , for a certain space , through glass composed of silicated borate of lead , on its emergence from which it is viewed through a Nichol 's eye-piece , capable of revolving on a horizontal axis , so as to intercept the ray , or allow it to be transmitted , alternately , in the different phases of its revolution .
The glass through which the ray passes , and which the author terms the diamagnetic , is placed between the two poles of a powerful electro-magnet , arranged in such a position as that the line of magnetic forces resulting from their combined action shall coincide with , or differ but little from the course of the ray in its passage through the glass .
It was then found that if the eye-piece had been so turned as to render the ray invisible to the observer looking through the eye-piece before the electric current had been established , it becomes visible whenever , by the completion of the circuit , the magnetic force is in operation ; but instantly becomes again invisible on the cessation of that force by the interruption of the circuit .
Further investigation showed that the magnetic action causes the plane of polarization of the polarized ray to rotate , for the ray is again rendered visible by turning the eye-piece to a certain extent ; and that the direction of the rotation impressed upon the ray , when the magnetic influence is issuing from the south pole , and proceeding in the same direction as the polarized ray , is right-handed , or similar to that of the motion of the hands of a watch , as estimated by an observer at the eye-piece .
The direction in which the rotation takes place will , of course , be reversed by reversing either the course of the ray or the poles of the magnet .
Hence it follows that the polarized ray is made to rotate in the same direction as the currents of positive electricity are circulating , both in the helices composing the electro-magnet , and also in the same direction as the hypothetical currents , which , according to Ampere 's theory , circulate in the substance of a steel magnet .
The rotatory action was found to be always directly proportional to the intensity of the magnetic force , but not to that of the electric current ; and also to be proportional to the length of that portion of the ray which receives the influence .
The interposition of substances which occasion no disturbance of the magnetic forces , produces no change in these effects .
Magnets consisting only of electric helices act with less power than when armed with iron , and in which magnetic action is consequentiy more strongly developed .
The author pursues the inquiry by varying in a great number of ways the circumstances in which this newly-discovered influence is exerted ; and finds that the modifications thus introduced in the results are all explicable by reference to the general law above stated .
Thus the effect is produced , though in a less degree , when the polarized ray is subjected to the action of an ordinary magnet , instead of one that derives its power from a voltaic current ; and it is also weaker when a single pole only is employed .
It is , on the other hand , increased by the addition of a hollow cylinder of iron , placed within the helix , the polarized ray traversing its axis being then acted upon with great energy .
HIelices act with equal power in any part of the cylindric space which they enclose .
The heavy glass used in these experiments was found to possess in itself , no specific magneto-inductive action .
Different media differ extremely in the degree in which they are capable of exerting the rotatory power over a polarized ray of light .
It is a power which has no apparent relation to the other physical properties , whether chemical or mechanical , of these bodies .
Yet , however it may differ in its degree , it is always the same in kind ; the rotation it effects is invariably in one direction , dependent , however , on the directions of the ray and of the magnetic force .
In this respect it differs essentially from the rotatory power naturally possessed by many bodies , such as quartz , sugar , oil of turpentine , &amp;c. , which exhibit the phenomena of circular polarization ; for in some of these the rotation takes place to the right , and in others to the left .
When , therefore , such substances are employed as diamagnetics , the natural and the superinduced powers tend to produce either the same or opposite rotations ; and the resulting effects are modified according as they are cumulative in the former case , and differential in the latter .
In the concluding section of the paper , the author enters into general considerations on the nature of the newly-discovered influence of electricity and magnetism over light , and remarks that all these powers possess in common a duality of character which constitutes them a peculiar class , and affords an opening which before was wanting for the appliance of these powers to the investigation of this and other radiant agencies .
The phenomena thus brought to light confirm the views entertained by the author relative to the constitution of matter as being spheres of power , for the operation of which the conception of a solid nucleus is not necessary ; and leads to the presumption that the influence of magnetism on bodies which exhibit no magnetic properties consists in producing in them a state of electric tension tending to a current ; while on iron , nickel , and other bodies susceptible of magnetism , currents are actually established by the same influence .
The author states that he is still engaged in the prosecution of these inquiries .

