]\gt ; .
W. H. L. Russell .
" " On Certain Definite Integrals .
No. 13 By W. H. L. RUSSELL , A.B. , F.R.S. Received June 18 , 1885 .
In a paper which will be found in the " " of the Royal Society\ldquo ; for June , 1865 , I gave methods for expressing the sum of certain series by definite integrals , or in other words , of expressing by the form .
As shown in my last paper , this method is immediately connected with the solution of those partial differential equations which ] constant coefficients by definite integrals , circumstance which never crossed my mind ] lately .
In the present communication I hope to make further extensions in both these directions .
Case .
It was proved in the paper ed that the function could be expressed in the form , whereas and are rational ( misprinted identical ) functions of .
In the same way we may obtain For it was proved in that paper that ) can be expressed in the above form if be thus expressed , and therefore can be thus expressed in the form if can be expressed in this form , which can be done by repeating the process .
This investigation assumes , however , that ) is less than uniby .
Case II .
Suppose it were required to reduce , where Then ' and since the ator can be rationalised , we fall back on Case I. must of course be less than unity .
Case III .
When is greater than 1 and On certain Dejtnite Integrals .
Hence By this means can be expressed as double integral .
So can , but then must be less than unity .
We will now apply these considerations to the solution of linear partial differential equations .
Let , or as we shall write it , then taking as before a specimen term and must be connected by the relations .
Suppose from this we find Then , as will be seen by the reasoning employed in my former paper , the equation can be solved if . . .
can be expressed in the form , which brings us to Case II .
The same process may in certain cases be applied to partial differelltial equations with three independent variables .
Consider the series , . . .
when are arbitrary constanbs .
This may be written on Poisson 's principles when , . . .
are arbitrary functions , and this again when is an arbitrary function of the wo variables .
Now consider the partial differential equation , or as I shall write it , and let be a specimen term of the solution , as in previous cases , then , and our object must be to reduce to the form ; this may be easily done by remembering that , for On certain Definite Integrals .
Hence and therefore ' also , and so for These transformations give the required form .
If we have two partial differential equations\mdash ; then substitute as before for ; then we have the equations whenoe , and we fall back on the first case .
" " On Certain Definite Integrals No. 14 .
By W. H. L. RUSSELL , A.B. , F.R.S. Received June 18 , 1885 .
It follows from the expansion of in terms of the cosines of the mnltiples of , that . . . .
and consequently this theorem can be used in { he summation of series involving binomial coefficients .
I propose to give a few examples of this .
From the binomial theorem , when the index is even , we have and when the index is odd , Since , therefore equating the coefficients of , we have

