]\gt ; PROCEED I OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY May 2 , 1889 .
Professol G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read the as follows:\mdash ; Aitken , John .
Ballard , Edward , M.D. Basset , Alfred Barnard , M.A. Brown , Horace T. , F.C.S. Clark , Latimer , C.E. ingham , Professor David Douglas , M.B. Fletcher , Lazarus , M.A. Hemsley , William Botting , A.L.S. Hudson , Charles Thomas , M.A. Hughes , Professor Thomas McKenny , M.A. Poulton , Edward B. , M.A. Sollas , Professor William Johnson , D.Sc .
Todd , Charles , M.A. Tomlinson , Herberr , B.A. , Professor Gel.ald F. , M.D. Professor Georg Friedrich Julius Arthur Auwers , Foreign Membe ] .
( elected ) , signed the obligation in the Charter Book and was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; " " Note on the Effect produced by Conductors in the Neighbourhood of a Wire on the Rate of tiou of Disturbances along it , with a of this Rate By J. J. ISON , dish Professor of Experimental Physics , Cambridge .
1{eceived April 1 , 1889 .
In a paper on " " The Resistance of Electrolytes to very rapidly Alternating Currents\ldquo ; ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 45 , V0L .
2Prof .
J. J. Thomson .
On the Effect produced by [ May 2 , p. 270 ) , I have shown that if lvIaxwell 's theory that electricity move , like a perfectly incompressible fluid is not true , the rate of tion of very rapidly alternatin , currents along a wire placed at an infinite distance from other conductors cannot be the same as the rate of propagation of the electrodynamic action through the surrounding dielectric .
As Herbz , in his expcriments on the rate of propagation of electrical waves alon , a metal wire , found that these rates were not the same , it might appear that this proved unmistakably that Maxwell 's theory is untenable .
I wish in this note to show that , assuming Maxwell 's theol'y , we an explain the smaller velocity of propagation along wires found by Hertz , by aking into account the , capacity of the wire , if the wire is not at a very great distance from other conductors ; in that the capaci of the wirc produces much the same effect as the " " compressibility\ldquo ; of the electricity which is supposed to exist in all theorics other than Maxwell 's .
In the case of a ' ' free\ldquo ; wire in the laboratory , the electrical effects produced by the walls and floors are indefinite .
I sbal ] , , consider on the most general theory the case of a wire surrounded by a coaxial metal cylinder , case where the electrical conditions are perfectly definite if ttJe electrical oscillations are very rapid .
I shall consider case of a cylindrical wire surrounded by a cylindrical sheatl ] of dielectric , in its turn is surrounded by a third substance , either a conductor or another dielectric .
The axis of the wire is taken as the axis of , and all the variable quantities are supposed to vary as the notation is as nearly as possible the same as the former paper .
Let bc ) radius of the wire , its specific resista .
the cuter radios of the sheath of dielectric , and its specific capacity ; let us first suppose that this is surrounded by a substance whose specitic resistan is Let denote the electrostatic potential , let , in the wire , , in dielectric , , in the outer conductor ; where ) are the velocities of propagation of the oshatic potential in the , sheath , ftnd outer condnctor respectively ; in Maxwcll 's these are all finite , If are the components of the vector potential , we may put Conductors in the Neighbourhood of a Wire .
, in the wirs , , in the dielectric sheath , , in the outer conductor ; where being the velocity of propagation of electrodynamic action ough the sheath , and the magnetic permeabilities of the wire and outer conductor respectively , and and constants .
in the wire , where ; in the dielectric , where ; and in the outer conductor , where .
From the continuity of at the surfaces , we have .
( 1 ) .
Prof. J. J. Thomson .
On the Effect produced by [ May 2 , From the continuity of we get .
From the continuity of and we get ' The magnetic force paralleI to the surface of the wire is , ( 3 ) .
and , since this is continuous , we have . .
( 4 ) .
Eliminating and from equations ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) , we get ( ma ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 5 ) , .
1889 .
] Conductors in the of a Eliminating Fi and from equations ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , we get ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) .
We can substitute for and from equations ( 1 ) and get foul ' equations which we can eliminate , and ; as , however , the resuIt is length we shall only solve it for the particular case with which we are concerned , when , and and are all small .
We get , substituting in the terms multiplied by the approximate values of the Bessel 's functions for small quantities of variable In this cquation the approximate of the Bessel 's functions have been used only in the multiplied by This equation simplifies very much , since and are small , and therefore approximately and Mnking these substilutious , the , bovo equation educes to ti Prof. J. J. Thomson .
On the Effect produced by [ May 2 , ( see also " " Electrical Oscillations on Cylindrical Conductors ' London Math. Soc. Proc vol. 17 , p. 320 ) , The nattlre of the solution of this equation will depend upon the nitudes of and Case I. and both small .
In this case and Makifig these substitntions , equation ( 9 ) becomes .
Since is by hypothesis small , is compared with unity , and unless ; very great , it will be much the largest term inside the bracket , so that ( 10 ) may be written .
This represents a disturbance propagated with the veJocity and dying away to of its original value after traversing a distance This case , which is that of slowly alternating ctlrrents , was solved years ago by Sir William Thomson .
Case II .
large , small .
This is the case of rapidly alternating CUlTents t along a wire which is surrounded by a substance whose conductivity is so small that 4 is a small quantity .
In this case , since , equation ( 9 ) reduces to . . . . .
( 11 ) .
1889 .
] Conductors in the of a Wire .
Since is large , the second term in the bracket will be small for wires made of netic metals ; so that for this case ( 11 ) reduces to or , substituting for the approximate value , approximately , or This represents a disturbance propagated wibh the velocity and fading away to of its original value , after traversing a distance or if is the ] ength of the electrical vibration , the distance a disturbance travels before falling to of its original value is Thus in this case , even if equals , that is , if Maxwell 's theory is correot , the rate of propagation of the along the wire will not be the same as that of electrodynamic action ough air ; and yet the conditions may be such as to allow a disturbance to pass over several before falling to of its ori.oinal ] It will be noticed that the velocity of opagation does not depend on the specific resistance of the wire , and that it increases with the rapidity of the reversal , and that the rate at which the vibrations die away is independent of the resistance of the wire , and only slowly with the resistance of the outer condtlctor , since only onter in the form We can see the reason of this if we considel the amount of produced in the outer conductor .
If is the current parallel to the axis of passing ough : section of the wire , then , assuming in the investigation that Prof. J. J. Thomson .
On the Effect produced by [ May 2 , The rate of produotion of heat in the wire is the ratio of the heat generated in the wirc to , the heat which would be generated if the rent vere distributed , Since when is large , this ratio The rate at which heat is generated in the outel conductor is By equ.ationfi ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) we ave ' so that , approximately .
Thus the heat , enerated in the outer conductor since is sm is large compared with , and ' is approxim ately 1889 .
] Conductors in the Neighbourhood of a Wire .
Thus the rate at which heat is generated in the outer conductor is and is therefore tely independent of the resistances of wire and of the outer conductor , and large compared with the heat developed in the wire .
The case of an iron wire would differ from that investigated in the case when though ?
la is targe , is also large ; in this case ( 9 ) becomes approximately which represents a vibration avelling with a smaller velocity than that of the electrodynamic } through the dielectric , d.ving an to of its original value after versing t space } with a .
When the rate of fttion of the currents gets sufficiently rapid , gels , and , and we get Case III . ?
and } ) In this case , since ( ma ) ) and equation ( 9 ) reduces to This ents a vibration velocity dying away to of its origina'l value after a distance .
tlIis we see that if is very much greatel } , the decay of the will be due ieHy to the srilnce of the wire , bnt if , on the other hand , is very much , the will be due chiefly to the resishallcc of the conductor .
This case inclndes of a OUllded by a lnetal tube , the space veon the tub and the vire b occupied by au ) , in this case the electrical conditions perfectly and that the velocity of } ) ropagation a , wirc be , where is the velocity of propagation of the action through the dielectric .
if , as in 's theo the velocity along the wire will be same that through Prof. J. J. Thomson .
On the Effect produ by [ May 2 , dielectric , but it will not be so unless this condition is fulfilled .
Thus this case wotlld afford a definite means of testing whetber or not Maxwell 's theory is true .
The thick less of the outer tube would be immaterial , as with these very rapid vibrations the currents are entirely confined to the inner skin of the tube .
By comparing the results for this case with those of Case II , we see if rate at which the electrical disturbances die away depends on the conductivity of the wire , the velocity of ropagation the wire must be the same as that through the dielectric if Maxwell 's theory is true .
The equations can be modified so as to include the case when the outer conductor is replaced by another dielectric ; all that we have to do is in equation ( 9 ) replace by where , being t , he velocity of propagation through the outer dielectric .
In this case equation ( 9 ) be iomes If both are large , the velocity is the same as before , .
If na is large and small , the equation becomes approximately .
substituting for we get Thus the velocity of propagation is As it has been sbowll above at if tlJe rate at which the vibrations decay depends upon { he nature of the wire , the rate of prop.atiou of the disturbance the wire will be , I thougbt it would be of interest to mine the of propagation in this case , in rdel .
to see whether the velocity lvould still ifer as much as in Hertz 's experiments from that of the propagation of the electrolynamic action through air .
1889 .
] Conductors in the Neighbourhood of a Wire .
The method used is shown in fig. 1 .
AB , CD is the action of a vibrator ( in elevation in fig. 2 ) of the same shape and size as the one used by Hertz in the experiments described in Wiedemann 's ' Annalen , ' vol. 34 , p. 553 , AB , CD being squares of tin-plate , 40 cm .
square .
BE , OF wires , each cm .
long , terminating in the brightly polished balls and , these balls being ated by an air space of 3 or 4 mm. The terminals of the induction coil are fastened to BE , CF pieces of tin-plate placed in front of AB and , having insulated wir about 25 metres fastened to them , the ends and being covered with -wax .
The resonator ( fig. 3 ) is , as in Hertz 's expcriments , a ring of bout 7 cm .
in diameter , tetminnting in balls , the between which can be accurately adjusted by of a way in which the resonator was used was differcnt from 's method .
wires of equal lerlgth covet.ed with guttercha all 12 Effect of Conductors in Neighbourhood of a .
[ May 2 , surrounded by tin-foil , connected at ends with the earth , were fastened close to the balls the resonator ; the other extremities of these wires could move the wires LM , NO respectively .
When the coil was working , sparks passed between the balls of the resonator , and it was found that the intensity of these sparks depended on the position of the points and , to which the extremities wires of the resonator were attached .
The experimenbs made to determine the velocity through the wire were as follows : the end of one of the wires of the resonator was placed at , the end of the wire NO and the extremity of the other wire moved along LM until the sparks in the resonator were as fainb as possible ; the distance , when was the case , was about 5 metres .
We may conclude that in this position the points and nearly at the same potential .
The end of the other wire was then moved along NO until the sparks were again as faint as possible ; the position , when this was the case , was such that was metres .
Since the sparks are again a minimnm , we may conclude that and are again at nearly the same potential , hence the potetitials at and must be very nearly equal , but when this is the case , must be very nearly a -length ; the wave-length in wire LM was found in a similar way to be also about 10 metres .
Hence the wave- length of the electrical vibratiou in the wire must in this case be about 10 metres , but Hertz has shown by the interference of the direct electrical waves , and those reflected from a large metal reflector , that the wave-length of the action propagated through ) air from this vibrator is also about 10 metres , and the length of the wave musb be approximately the same in our experiments as the resonator which responded to the vibrations was of the same dimensions .
So that in this case the velocity of propagation through the wire is the same as that through the air .
Since the sparks between the balls of the resonator never actually vanish , the of the places where they are as faint as possible is a matter of judgment , and thus the method is not pable of any very great accuracy .
I found , however , on comparing my results with those of another observer , Mr. E. Everett , that the two sets agreed within about 2 feet in 10 metres .
The rate at which the disturbances die away was determined by a preliminary experiment .
this only one wire was used , and this was carried over the laboratory until when the resonator was used in the way described by Herbz no sparks passed between the balls ; the length of wire necessary for this was more tLau twice as great for coppel as for Gel.man silvel wire of the same diametel ' .
Thus the rate of decay depends on the material of which the wire is made , and , therefore , by the above investigation the velocity through the lvire .
1889 .
] On Acid and other Selenium Compounds .
[ On repeating the experiments after the Easter Va iatioI ) , an effect was observed which may explain the difference between the va , lue of the -length the wire fonnd in the above experiments and those of Hertz .
It happened that plates after the vacation were placed further from the wall than they had been before , and it was four .
hat the wave-length was much less , now between seven and metres ; on moving the plates nearer the wall the wave- increased , the increase being evidently due to the increase in the capacity of the plate produced by the proximity of the wall .
Thus if the distance of the plates from the walls was different in the determination of the wave-length along the wire from what it was in the determination of the wave-Iength through air , the wave- would not be equal even if velocity of were the same .
I endeavoured to determine the -length in air by the distance between the nodes after reflection from a metal screen , but could not succeed in fixing the position of the nodes with sufficient definiteness to determine the wave-length with ccuracy .
The fact , however , that I , a wave-length in the wire the as that obtained by Hertz through air , is sufficient to show that it is not necessary to suppose that the velocities rough the wire and air are different , but that the ence iu Herlz 's results may lave been due to a change in the position of the vibrator rela tively to the walls of the room.\mdash ; May 15 .
] IL ' ' Besearches in the of Selenic Acid and other Selenium Compounds By Sir CHARLES A. F.R.C.S.I. , V.P.I.C. , Professor of Chemistry and Hygiene , B.C.S.I. , and , F.I.C. , Demonstrator of Chemistry , R.C.S.I. Communicated by Sir HENRY RoscoI ] F.R.S. eceived Apri16 , 1889 .
Although selenic acid was prepared by so far back as the year 1827 , few chemists appear to have studied its propcrties .
fhis want of rest in selenic acid is rather surprising , that it po sesses so close a tionship to sulphuric is so important a compound .
Finding the chemistry of selenic so , we resolved to makc an tion of this body , with the view of bringin .
, so far as we could , its emistry abrcast that of sulphuric acid , and also in the hope that its vould yield esults which might throw additional light on relations of the tter acid .
The ving p contain the results at which we have arrived .

