1881 .
] Dr. W. Stirling .
On Lung of the April7 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the tableland thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Minute Structure of the Lung of the Newt with especial reference to its Nervous Apparatus .
" By WILLIAM Stirling , M.D. , Sc. D. , Regius Professor of the Institutes ot Medicine ( Physiology ) in the University of Aberdeen .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received March 19 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The lungs of the newt and triton are essentially simple sacs without any septa projecting into their interior , so that they are remarkably well suited for microscopic examination .
They are covered externally by a layer of endothelium , but there are no stomata to be found between the endothelial cells .
Under this is a small quantity of areolar tissue containing a plexus of yellow elastic fibres , with the long axis of the meshes arranged in the long axis of the lung-sac .
Under this is a layer of non-striped muscular fibres , which forms a complete investment for the lung .
These muscular fibres are disposed circularly .
They present the same structure as similar cells in the mesentery of the newt .
Each cell contains an intra-nuclear and intracellular plexus of fibrils .
The arrangement and distribution of the blood-vessels is then described .
The pulmonary artery runs along one side of the lung and the pulmonary vein runs on the opposite side .
The trunk of the pulmonary vein lies quite superficially , next the peritoneal surface .
It is covered only by the serous investment of the lung , so that it lies superficial to , i.e. , outside , the muscular layer .
The pulmonary artery lies deeper , below the muscular coat .
The capillaries are then described .
No capillaries exist internal to the line of distribution of the pulmonary vein , but capillaries are found over , i.e. , internal to , the line of distribution of the pulmonary artery .
The epithelium is then described .
Ciliated epithelium is found along the course of the pulmonary vein and at the origin of its chief branches , but the other parts of the lung are covered by a single layer of squamous epithe- Dr. W. Stirling .
On Lung of the [ Apr. 7 , lium .
The ciliated epithelium is directly continuous with that lining the short trachea .
The nerves of the lung are very numerous and are branches of the vagus .
They enter the lung in three nr four main strands at its base .
These strands are of unequal thickness , a varying number of nerve-fibres enters into their composition .
At once they proceed towards the pulmonary vein .
, which they follow very closely in their distribution .
They form a plexus along the course of the vein , which is readily revealed with the aid of gold chloride .
Only a few non-medullated nerve-fibres pass on to the pulmonary artery .
The nerve-strands lie outside the muscular coat , and as they pass onwards in the pulmonary walls they give off branches right and left .
A large number of multipolar nerve-cells exists in the course of the nerve-strands , and they are especially numerous where a branch is given off .
More than twenty medullated nerve-fibres and a considerably larger number of non-medullated fibres enter the lung .
The nerve-strands in their course along the pulmonary vein lie in spaces lined by squamous epithelium .
The branches of the nerve-strands lie outside the muscular coat .
The axial cylinders split up into fibrils , many of which divide dicho-tomously , and afterwards unite to form a wide meshed primary nerve plexus external to the muscular coat .
From this branches are given off which form a much finer secondary plexus , which gives off very fine branches which run towards the muscular fibres in which they seem to terminate .
It cannot , however , be maintained that all the nerve-fibres which enter the lung terminate in the muscular coat .
The majority of the non-medullated nerve-fibres distributed along the course of the.pulmonary artery seem destined for the muscular tissue in its walls .
The author has found a. plexus of nerve-fibres in the adventitia and another in the muscular coat of the pulmonary artery .
Some of the nerve-fibres must , undoubtedly , have other relations than those indicated above .
The author points out that , as the lungs are developed from the alimentary canal , it is to be expected that structures , the exact homologues and representatives of those occurring in the wall of the alimentary canal , may be expected to occur in the lung .
He suggests therefore , that the non-striped muscle in the wall of the lung of the newt , and the tracheal and bronchial muscles in the mammalian lung , are the representatives of one or more of the muscular tissues of the alimentary canal ; and , as each of these muscular tissues has a nerve plexus in relation with it , a similar condition may be expected to occur in the lung .
The plexus in the wall of the lung is comparable to Auerbach 's or Meissner 's plexus , or perhaps to both .

