Further Researches on the Nervous System of the Uterus .
" By Robert Lee , M.D. , F.R.S. , Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians .
The author states , that on the 8th of April 1838 , he discovered , in dissecting a gravid uterus , structures which had a striking resemblance to ganglionic plexuses of nerves ; and , in the following December , he traced , in another gravid uterus , the sympathetic and spinal nerves into these new structures .
He requested several distinguished anatomists to examine these dissections , ' and to compare them with similar dissections of the unimpregnated uterus , which he had made:in the ' course of the same year .
He then quotes ; at some length , the-opinions given by these several referees after their examination ; and which appear , for the most part , to be favourable to the views of the author , namely , that the structures in question are not mere fibrous tissues , but that they possess the character of nerves , and that they augment in size with the enlargement of the uterus during pregnancy .
Among those to whom the preparations were submitted for examination , however , two persons declared it to be their opinion , which they founded on observations with the microscope , that the filaments regarded by the author as nerves , are bandss of elastic tissue only , and 'not plexuses of nerves ; and the author , on receiving this intimiation , withdrew the paper which he had presented to the Royal Society , and which had been read 'on the 12th of December 1889 , in which paper ' the appearances displayed in his dissections were minutely described and delineated .
The author next proceeds to give the history of his subsequent researches on the ; same subject , which he extended to the corresponding parts in some of the larger quadrupeds ; and from all'these he obtained accumulated evidence of the truth of his original opinions .
He also adduces the testimony of various observers , in addition to those he had before cited ; which are all in accordanice with his own views , as they are expressed in his paper , printed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1841 , an Appendix to which was published in the volume of the same work for 1842 .
Later observations and dissections have ' served only to confirm him in his opinions ; and he considers them as establishing the fact that the nerves of the uterus are considerably enlarged during the gravid state of that organ .
The author concl:udes his paper by giving a report , drawn up by Mr. John Dalrymple , of the results of his microscopic examination of the uterine nerves in preparations furnished by the auth'or , which tend to corroborate his views .

