IX .
" Contributions towards the History of the Monamines."No .
Ill. Compound AAmmonias by Inverse Substituition .
By A. W. HOF1iJANN , LLI .
D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received July 24 , 1860 .
Many years ago I showed that the bromide or iodide of a quartary ammonium splits under the itnfluence of heat into the bromide or iodide of an alcohol-radical on the one hand , and a tertiary monamine on the other .
Having lately returned to the study of this class of substances , I was led to examine the deportment , under the influence of heat , of the tertiary , secondary , and , lastly , of the primary monammoniumsalts .
Experiment has shown that these substances undergo an analogous decomposition .
The chloride of a tertiary monammonium when submitted to distillation yields , together with the chloride of an alcohol-radical , a secondary monamine ; the chloride of a secondary monammonium , together with an alcohol-behloride , a primary monamine ; lastly , the chloride of a primary monammonium , the chloride of an alcohol-radical and ammonia .
Exactly , then , as my former experiments show that we may rise in the scale by replacing the four equivalents of hydrogen in ammonium one by one by radicals , so it is obvious from these niew experiments that we may also step by step descend , by substituting again hydrogen for the radicals in succession .
To take as anl illustration the monammonium-salts of the ethylseries which as yet I have chiefly examined : Ascent .
3NC( 12 5 1)3r C [ ( )21r15 ) 113N ] 3r Animinoniia .
Broinide of ethyl .
Brornide of Ethylammoritiumn .
( 02 Li5 ) 1HoN+ ( 21 H. ) Br [ ( 0211j[J2N ] Br Ethylamhiiie .
Bromi(le of Diethylamonollium .
( 02 115)2 II N+ ( C2 115 ) Br = [ ( C2 H)3 1-1 N ] Br Diethylamine .
Bromide of Triethylammoniuti .
( C2 1-15)3 N+ ( C2 115 ) Br [ ( C2 5 ) , &amp; N ] I3r TriethIlamine .
Br oinide of Tetrethylammonium .
Note.-H=l ; C= 12 .
Descent .
[ ( Cs I-l ) , N ] Cl ( C2 1-1 ) Cl ?
( 02 15 ) N Chlride of Tetrethylammonium .
Chloride of Ethyl .
Triethylamine .
[ ( 0C2 11)3 N ] Cl = ( 02 11 ) C+ ( C2 115)2I-I N Chloride of Triethylainmoinium .
Diethylamine .
[ ( C2 1)C22 1 N ] Cl = ( 0C -I2 ) Cl ?
( 02 C-15 ) 112 N Clhloride of Diethylaminonium .
Ethylamine .
[ ( C ) HI ) 113 N ] Cl = ( 02 I- ) Cl + 113 N Chloride of Ethylamnmornium .
Ammonia .
The above reactions , interesting when regarded from a scientific point of view , admit of but limited application in practice .
The purity of the result is disturbed by several circumstances , which it is difficult to exclude .
Unless the temperature be sufficiently high , a small portion of the ammonium-salt submitted to distillation sublimes without change ; again , a portion of the same salt is reproduced in the neck of the retort and in the receiver* , from the very constituents into which it splits ; lastly , if the temperature be too high , the chloride of ethyl is apt to be decomposed into ethylene and hydrochloric acid , the latter producing , with the monamine liberated in the reaction , a salt which in its turn is likewise decomposed .
Thus the chloride of diethylammonium , for instance , together with chloride of ethyl and ethylamine , yields ethylene and chloride of ethylammonium which splits into chloride of ethyl and ammonia .
The idea naturally suggested itself , to attempt , by means of this reaction , the formation of the primary and secondary monophosphines , which are at present unknown .
Experiments made with the view of transforming triethylphosphine into diethylphosphine have as yet remained unsuccessful , the chloride of triethylphosphonium distilling without alteration .

