XVI .
" The Fossil Flora of Bovey Tracey .
" By Dr. OSWALD HEER , Professor of Botany and Director of the Botanical Gardens in Zurich .
Communicated by Sir CHARLES LYELL .
( Abstract .
) The surface-covering of the Bovey plateau consists of a lightcoloured quartzose sand , which contains here and there considerable beds of white clay .
By the plants contained in it this formation is assigned to the Diluvium .
Immediately under it come the beds of clay and lignite , which belong to one formation , far older than that of the overlying white clay ; the plants found in them determine them as belonging unquestionably to the miocene period .
Hence the formations must be treated of separately .
A. The Miocene Formation of Bovey .
Of the forty-nine species of plants hitherto discovered in the lignite beds of Bovey , twenty occur on the Continent in the miocene formation .
Those beds are therefore undoubtedly miocene .
When tabulated , it is seen that fourteen of the twenty species occur in the Tongrien etage , thirteen in the Mayencien , five in the Helvetien , and eight in the CEningien ; hence the Bovey lignites must be ranged in the under miocene , and in the Aquitanien etage of it .
Moreover , the new species at Bovey are closely allied to well-known continental forms on this horizon .
It is remarkable that Bovey has no species in common with Iceland , although the tertiary flora of the latter belongs to the same period , and two of its species have been found in the miocene deposit of Ardtun Head in Mull .
The Bovey flora has a much more southern character , manifesting , indeed , a sub-tropical climate .
It has certainly some points of connexion with the eocene of the Isle of Wight , but on the whole possesses an essentially different character .
The fact that but one species is common to it and Alum Bay , whilst it has so many in common with the more remote miocene formations of the Continent , satisfies us that it belongs to a different horizon .
Among the twenty-six new species found at Bovey , several interesting forms are found .
The first place belongs to Sequoia Couttsice , a conifer which we can illustrate by branches of every age , by cones and seeds .
It supplies a highly important link between Sequoia Langsdorfii and S. Sternbergi , the widely distributed representatives of S. sempervirens and S. gigantea ( Wellingtonia ) , whose occurrence in the present creation is confined to California .
Of great interest also are two species of Fitis , of which the grapestones lie in the clays of Bovey .
Three remarkable species of Fig , the seeds of three new species of Nyssa and two of Annona , one new water-lily ( Nymphtea ) , and many highly ornate Carpolithes impart to our knowledge of tertiary plants a most essential extension .
It is highly probable that , at the period of the lower miocene , the Bovey basin was occupied by an inland lake .
The entire absence of fresh-water shells , and , indeed , of aquatic animals generally , is certainly very extraordinary , and so is the absence of fruits of the Chara , so abundant elsewhere in miocene freshwater deposits ; the Nymphcea seeds , however , furnish a secure indication of fresh water .
We must not omit to notice that the parts of the basin hitherto explored were towards the middle of the lake , and , in the case of the under beds at least , at a considerable depth , which explains the absence of bog-plants as well as of mammalian relics .
The lignite beds consist almost entirely of tree-stems ( probably belonging in great measure to Sequoia Couttsice ) which have apparently been floated hither , not only from the circuit of the immediate hills , but doubtless also from greater distances .
The twenty-sixth bed in the series , immediately above the s " thick bed of sand , " is a soft clay with numerous leaves of plants , and ripe cones and seeds of Sequoia Couttsite ; the bed was probably formed in autumn , and the plants it contains are due to the driftings of that season .
Hligher up follows the bed ( twenty-five ) with fern rhizomes , and occasionally pinnules of Pecopteris lignitum .
The latter appears in great abundance with branches of Sequoia still higher .
As this under miocene formation is immediately succeeded by that of the gravel and white clay , we have here a great hiatus : either the middle and upper miocene , as well as the pliocene periods , must have passed without the formation of deposits in this place , or they must have been removed again in the diluvial period .
B. T7e White Clay .
While the lignites and their alternating clays present us with a sub-tropical vegetation , the plants of the White Clay exhibit a totally different character , and must have had their origin in an altogether distinct period .
Four species-three of Salix and one of Betula have been found in this overlying mass , no one of which appears to differ from species now living .
The presence of the Betula ( B. nana ) is conclusive for a diluvial climate , that is , a colder climate than Devonshire has at the present day ; for this dwarf birch is an Arctic plant , which has no British habitat south of Scotland , and which occurs in Mid Europe only on mountains and Sub-Alpine peat mosses .
The evidence of the willow-leaves is to the same effect , indicating that at this period Bovey Heathfield was a cold peat-moor .

