398 Development and Regeneration of Bone .
to grow in the midst of lacerated muscles by the mechanical distribution of osteoblasts .
Observation .
Eiders Bone .
Suggestion as to the production of myositis ossificans .
( 7 ) Can shavings of nude bone grow on being placed between muscles in a gap in the continuity of the shaft ?
Experiment and result seven weeks after show that not only do they grow , but that they also proliferate to a very marked extent .
Is there any direct evidence to show that transplanted living bone actually grows and proliferates instead of forming , like blood clot , a passive framework for the granulation tissue to penetrate , which framework will then become absorbed ?
There is , as may be illustrated ( 8 ) in an instance of bone grown in sponge filled with granulation tissue .
( 9 ) To test the osteogenic power of bone cells constituting the shaft of a long bone , they were grown inside of a glass tube .
Kesult .
( 10 ) Intra-human transplantation of bone .
Eesult 28 years after .
Data are obtained from this experiment as to the growth of the humerus from the proximal and distal epiphyseal cartilages respectively .
Also as to interstitial osseous increase\#151 ; evidence of the increase in length of the diaphysis from the epiphyseal cartilage toward which the nutrient vessel runs .
I R61e of the Various .
Elements in the Development and Regeneration of Bone .
By Sir William Macewen , F.RS .
( Received and Read January 24 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) The present inquiry has been undertaken with the view of obtaining data , chiefly by direct experiment , as to the rdle which the various elements play in the development and reproduction of bone .
This communication deals with apart of the subject , under two heads:\#151 ; A , the potentiality of the periosteum as a factor in the production of bone , and B , the regeneration if bone from proliferation of osseous tissue .
The following is a brief rSsumS , of the paper:\#151 ; A. Potentiality of Periosteum as a Factor in Reproduction of Bone .
( 1 ) To test this , a complete cylinder , constituting a portion of the shaft of dong bone , was removed while the periosteum was preserved intact .
This showed , ten weeks afterwards , an osseous defect , constituting a gap in the continuity of the shaft .
( 2 ) Periosteum free from osseous plaques was removed and transplanted .
Was not followed by reproduction of bone , but by absorption of the Nsteum .
I Charnel s silver ring experiments are discussed and the correctness of ^ eductions drawn therefrom are questioned .
lone0 ?
1 t0 teSt whether the bone cells or the periosteum produces the ether ^ COVers the silver rings , three experiments , each differing from the 'te De *616 ^er^onile(h in which silver rings were placed on bone deprived of ^ boneteUm\gt ; lesult that in each case the rings became covered B j The KEGEneration of Bone , from Proliferation of Osseous Tissue .
^hla^08^ !
1111 shown to be a limiting membrane controlling the it j. 8 hlustrated in fractures , when the periosteum is intact an WBMB The production of callus is not inherently greater m the ^tiou fS ^an *n man\#151 ; the amount of callus in both depends on t e 1 heri'steum and the amount of movement .
( 4 ) Lhre I V ( 5\ that a long bone deprived of its periosteum conti \ A* also do the flat bones of the skull .
( 6 ) Bone may be made 2 Gr

