Croonian Lecture .
On the Anatomical Structure of the Eye ; illustrated by Microscopical Drawings , executed by F. Bauer , Esq. By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read November 15 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 76 .
] Having ascertained , by the aid of Mr. Bauer 's microscopical observations , that neither the marsupium nor the ciliary processes are muscular , and therefore inadequate to those adjustments of the crystalline lens requisite for distinct vision ; and that the structure of the choroid coat is also membranous , the author turned his attention to the structure of the iris , which in the human eye resembles that of the quadruped developed by Mr. Maunoir in his Treatise on the Artificial Pupil , consisting of an anterior membranous andcla posterior muscular coat ; the latter , in the act of contraction , presses back the lens upon the vitreous humour , the elasticity of which causes it again to advance when the sphincter muscle of the iris relaxes .
In proof of the correctness of this opinion , Sir Everard adduces some experiments illustrative of the influence of belladonna upon myopic eyes .
Having ascertained that the marsupium is not muscular , I could only consider it , says the author , as a screen preventing the pencils of rays that fall upon the portion of the retina -within the axis of the optic nerve , from extending to the outer portion .
And after explaining to Mr. Dollond , that the situation of the bird 's eye in the head makes the image of a distant object fall upon the retina within the axis of the optic nerve , and of a near one without that axis , as the bird only sees the object with one eye at a time ; but the human eye , and that of quadrupeds , will have the image of a distant object fall on the retina , without that axis , both eyes being turned to the object ; -he said that the inner portion of the bottom of the bird 's eye was more extensive than the outer , and made a portion of a larger curve ; consequently , was at a greater distance from the lens , and therefore adapted to longer pencils of rays fitting it for distant vision ; while the outer portion being nearer , the lens was fitted for seeing near objects , the marsupium confining the rays , and preventing the vision from being confused .
In the human species and quadrupeds , the bottom of the eye has one uniform curve , the portion within the axis of the nerve being smaller than the outer , which is the very reverse of what it is found to be in birds , adapting both eyes to see the same distant object at one time .

