546 Implantation of Actively Proliferating .
By J. O. Wakelin Barratt , M.l ) .
, D.Sc .
( Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. Received July 20 , 1907 .
) ( From the Cytological Laboratories of the University of Liverpool .
) The present investigation deals with the course of events following subcutaneous implantation of actively proliferating adult epithelium .
To avoid the possibility of disturbing factors being introduced by the formation of antibodies , the epithelium was implanted into the same animal or into an animal of the same species .
The effect of implantation of normal adult epithelium has , more particularly during the last two decades , been the subject of considerable study by a large number of observers , whose investigations have shown that epithelium may be successfully implanted and an epithelial cyst result , but that the implanted epithelium shows a marked tendency to die out in its new habitat.* In the present research , instead of using normal epithelium for implantation , rapidly proliferating epithelium was employed .
It was anticipated that additional information would thereby be afforded upon two important points , namely , upon the immediate influence of implantation on the activity of the epithelial cells , and ( owing to the large bulk of epithelium available for implantation ) upon the influence exerted by the implanted epithelium upon non-epithelial tissue elements .
Both these anticipations have been fulfilled .
The use of rapidly proliferating epithelium has been rendered possible by Fischer 's discovery of the action of scharlach R upon the epithelium of the skin of the rabbit , f The extent to which epithelial proliferation occurs may be judged by a glance at fig. 2 , which shows the appearance of a section of the ear after the injection of the dye , fig. 1 showing , for comparison , a normal section drawn to the same scale .
} # Cp .
E. Korsclielt , " Regeneration und Implantation im Tierreich , " ' Verhandlungeo der Gesellschaft Deutscher Naturforscher und Aerzte , ' 1906 , Erster Teil , S. 164 .
+ R. Fischer , " Die experimentelle Erzeugung atypischer Epithelwucherungen und die Entstehung bosartiger Geschwiilste , " ' Miinch .
Med. Wochenselir.,5 1906 , 53 Jahrg .
, S. 2041 .
} The sections represented are stained by Heidenhain 's iron alum haematoxylin method , except in fig. 1 , where methylene blue eosin is used for staining .
Figs. 1 and 2 are magnified 33 diameters ; the remaining figures are .
magnified 800 diameters .
Fig. 2 .
Implantation of Actively Proliferating Epithelium .
547 mm \#166 ; 8 J 3 * * J j HH ?
\#151 ; \lt ; I* A series of 31 implantations of skin from the rabbit 's ear , after injection of scbarlach It dissolved in olive oil , was made , the site of implantation being the skin of the back ( Table I ) .
The epithelium of the skin implanted was very actively proliferating , being in the condition shown in fig. 2 .
The thickness of the portion of skin implanted was about 1 mm. Before removal of skin for implantation the rabbit 's ear was shaved , all loose horny epidermis removed , and the surface washed with absolute alcohol , followed in some experiments by the application of a 1 in 500 solution of mercuric chloride .
The latter did not , however , present any obvious advantage , nor Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
[ July 20 , Table I.\#151 ; Experiments in which Portions of the Skin of the Ear of the Rabbit , previously injected with Scharlach R so as to cause Epithelial Proliferation , were implanted subcutaneously .
No. of experiment .
Duration of implantation .
Condition of implanted skin at end of period of implantation .
Condition of epithelium .
Mitoses in epithelial cells .
Necrotic epithelium .
Scharlach It oil globules .
days .
1 3 In part living Absent Present Present 2 6 None living 99 Abundant 99 3 6 In part living Present Present 99 4 6 None living Absent Abundant 99 6 6 \#187 ; t ) 99 99 6 7 In part living Present Present 99 7 7 99 99 99 99 8 7 None living Absent Abundant 99 9 7 99 99 99 99 10 7 In part living Scanty Present 99 11 7 99 Absent 99 99 12 7 99 99 99 99 13 8 " Numerous 99 99 Scanty 14 14 Yery little living Absent 15 14 99 Scanty 99 16 14 99 99 Present 17 31 99 Absent 18 31 f ) 99 99 19 31 None living 99 20 31 Very little living 99 21 71 H Scanty 22 71 None living 23 71 Very scanty 24 71 99 25 80 Very little living Scanty 26 80 99 )\gt ; 27 80 None living 28 80 99 29 90 99 30 90 99 31 135 99 was it in any way inimical to the success of the implantation .
The portions .of skin implanted were removed at the end of from three days to four and a half months .
In 17 out of the 31 implantations , living epithelium was found on removal ; in the remaining 14 experiments no living epithelium was present on removal .
Por comparison with the above a second series of seven implantations of normal skin from the rabbit 's ear ( cp .
fig. 1 ) was carried out ( Table II ) .
In five of these experiments living epithelium was found on examination at the end of from seven days to four and a half months .
1907 .
] Implantation of Actively Proliferating .
549 Table II.\#151 ; Control Experiments in which Healthy Living Skin of the Babbit 's Ear was implanted subcutaneously .
No. of Duration of Condition of implanted skin at end of period of implantation .
experiment .
implantation .
Condition of epithelium .
Mitoses in epithelium .
Necrotic epithelium .
1 days 7 In part living Yery scanty Present 2 7 None living -T- )\gt ; 3 31 In part living Yery scanty 4 31 * 5 31 t\#187 ; \gt ; \#187 ; 6 31 None living \#151 ; 7 135 Yery little living Absent In order to be in a position to interpret some of the appearances found in the area of implantation , a third series of five implantations was made with normal skin of the rabbit 's ear , previously kept for two months in absolute alcohol .
These experiments will be referred to later .
When actively proliferating epithelium was implanted it was found that , during the first fortnight of implantation , such portions of the basal prickle layer as remained living continued to divide rapidly , so that in the implanted epithelium mitoses were about as numerous as before implantation , while , in addition , loose horny epidermic scales were produced in abundance at the free surface of the epithelium .
The circumstance that cell division continued for a time apparently undiminished in implanted actively proliferating epithelium was quite unexpected , for although it is known that normal epithelium preserved in a moist chamber may remain , for as much as a fortnight after removal , living and capable of being grafted on to a healthy granulating surface , * nevertheless such survival seems to be regarded , not unnaturally , as a species of suspended animation , unattended with active growth .
Normal epithelium is , however , owing to its relatively slow growth and its scanty amount , unsuitable for determining the effect of implantation on cell activity , while the use of actively proliferating epithelium , on the contrary , enables this effect to be readily ascertained .
The proliferating epithelium , after implantation , would appear to possess a restricted supply of nourishment , for it is not possible to recognise capillaries penetrating into the implanted skin , even at the end of the first week .
The character of the * K. Garrey , " Transplantationen in der Chirurgie , " ' Verhandlungen der Gesellschaft Deutscher Naturforscher und Aerate , ' 1906 , Erster Teil , S. 205 .
VOL. LXXIX.\#151 ; B. 2 R Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
----- [ July 20 , mitoses in the implanted epithelium is the same as that noted before implantation , both somatic and reduction mitoses being seen , the former predominating , as described and figured in a previous communication* mt : m v m .n \#151 ; s ?
\#187 ; I'S 2 2 ft. fl .9 S | ^ 00 00 TS S cd S2 2 CO o s vm wim w* .
Sir ifii v fl \#174 ; aj g S S J S f -g J 2 ffti \lt ; s cJ How long active proliferation continues in implanted skin cannot be definitely determined from the experiments so far made , but it was found * J. O. Wakelin Barratt , " Mitosis in Proliferating Epithelium , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 79 , 1907 , p. 372 .
1907 .
] Implantation of Actively Proliferating Epithelium .
551 that by the 31st day the epithelium was considerably reduced in amount , and that , as in normal skin , division figures were rare .
The epithelium still surviving at this period resembled normal surface epithelium , consisting of a flattened expansion of prickle cells , covered with epidermic scales and lying upon a bed of fairly dense connective tissue .
No hair follicles or sebaceous glands were seen at this period .
Subsequently the epithelium surviving became very scanty in amount .
When the normal skin of the rabbit 's ear was used for implantation ( Table II ) , after the lapse of about a month , the appearance of the portions implanted was similar to that of the former series at the end of the same period of time .
In implanted skin a variable amount of the prickle layer always died .
Polynuclear leucocytes appeared in large numbers about the dead portion , which could be readily recognised by the shrivelled character of its nuclei , which stained imperfectly and diffusely .
Not unfrequently dead and living prickle cells lie close together , the latter showing numerous mitoses and spireme figures .
Subsequently the polynuclear cells were accompanied , and later , for the most part , replaced by large mononuclear cells with abundant cytoplasm ( cp .
figs. 5 and 7 ) , before which the prickle cells gradually disappeared , so that ultimately the place of the latter was occupied by large mononuclear cells accompanied by multinucleated giant cells , the nuclei of which lay chiefly in the centre of the cell ( cp .
figs. 6 , 7 , and 8 ) .
As in such cases the horny epidermic scales still persisted unaltered , acting like inert bodies , as did also the hair shafts ( figs. 7 and 8 ) , it might at first appear as if these large mononucleated cells and giant cell masses were really epithelial cells , which , owing to their changed environment , had undergone metaplasia , losing their prickles and their capacity for undergoing conversion into keratin .
That this is not so , however , was shown by the experiments of the third series , in which the implantation of alcohol-hardened skin led to precisely the same appearance of large mononuclear and giant cells , before which the prickle layer disappeared ( fig. 8 ) , while the appearance of mononuclear cells was preceded by that of polynuclear leucocytes , just as in the first two series .
This action of dead sterile epithelium in attracting polynuclear leucocytes shows that the presence of the latter is not necessarily due to contamination with bacteria .
No evidence of the presence of bacteria in the area of implantation could be obtained by staining methods , and the appearance of the site of implantation was that of a purely aseptic process .
In this connection it may be observed that , when the normal skin of the rabbit 's ear was used for implantation , the same appearance of polynuclear leucocytes at first , and later of mononuclear and giant cells , occurred .
Fig. 6 first acute , leading to the attraction of polynuclear leucocytes , and , later , becoming less intense , affects mononuclear cells .
The source of the latter cells need not he considered here , since the experiments made do not throw any new light upon their mode of origin , beyond the fact that mitoses of the Fig. fir \lt ; : Fig. 6 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Section of skin of rabbit 's ear , implanted for seven days under the skin of the back of the rabbit .
Previous to implantation , epithelial proliferation had been brought about by means of scharlach R. The prickle cells are still living , and are normal in aspect , one division figure being seen .
The nuclei in the corium are surrounded by abundant cytoplasm ; well-defined collagen bundles are not present .
In contact with the epithelium in the upper left-hand corner necrotic material is seen , consisting of ill-defined spherical masses , among which darkly staining bodies , apparently degenerated nuclei , are found .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Section of healthy skin of rabbit 's ear , implanted for 31 days under the skin of the back of the rabbit .
Above is the stratum corneum unaltered .
Below this are seen large mononucleated cells , together with two polynuclear cells , one of which shows basophile granules .
Still lower are portions of two large giant cells .
represents a section of a portion of the ear of a healthy rabbit implanted sub cute for 31 days ( Experiment 3 , Table II ) .
It must therefore be concluded that the dead prickle layer exerts a chemiotactic action , which is at like those of myeloid sarcoma , the nuclei being placed centrally .
Apart fro the dAbris which they exhibit ( figs. 5 to 8 ) , the sections recall very vivid the aspect of sarcoma tissue of the round celled variety .
Both the giant ce ' and the single large mononucleated cells exhibit granular cytoplasm , whi Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
\amp ; B Fig. 7.\#151 ; Section of nodule resulting from implantation , for 31 days , of skin of rabbit 's ear , in which epithelial proliferation had been brought about by injecting scharlach R. No prickle cells are present .
Three pigmented hair shafts are seen , two in transverse , one in oblique , section ; the latter seems to exhibit slight superficial erosion , the others show no erosion .
Mononucleated cells with abundant cytoplasm are seen , and also a giant cell .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Section of nodule resulting from implantation of normal skin of the ear of the rabbit for 14 days under the skin of the back of the rabbit .
Previous to implantation , the piece of skin employed had been kept in absolute alcohol for two months .
An unaltered hair follicle is seen with a giant cell beside and in part surrounding it , together with several large mouonucleated cells possessing abundant cytoplasm .
This section shows that the cell masses seen in figs. 6 and 7 , beneath unaltered stratum corneum or around hair-shafts , cannot be considered as arising by a metaplasia of the implanted epithelial cells .
S. i* S ' S .8 a r-t P O* p ! .
Qj p O ct P g o 2L c+- ZZ CO ^ cd 5s if s S. Ct er CD OQ \#187 ; \#151 ; \#187 ; .
P P 00* 3 .
21 , OQ \#174 ; 8* O P *-t\#187 ; ct B S o o a s g \amp ; S ' 00 .
O* P 00 a4 P cl* p CD B \#187 ; ct ; S ' Ct ?
d CD CD ?
3* CD c CD P ^t P o p OQ ct P- CD CD CO p- O ct p- p ct Ct D* CD \lt ; \lt ; p ?
\#151 ; \lt ; .
CO o a s Ct a ct o ' O ip o CV a S\gt ; * \gt ; 3 \amp ; o c* .
Oi Oi CO 554 Implantation of Actively Proliferating Epithelium .
often contains numerous pigment granules ( fig. 8 ) , and sometimes presents a vacuolated character ( fig. 7 ) .
It may here be observed that , when epithelial proliferation is produced in the rabbit 's ear by the injection of scharlach R ( fig. 4 ) , the nuclei of the corium are increased and mononuclear cells rich in cytoplasm become observable .
That this is not due to the action of scharlach R , is shown by the fact that repeated attempts to obtain such cell infiltration by injection of this dye , dissolved in olive oil , into the deeper layers of the subcutaneous tissue and also into the testis of the rabbit failed .
It follows , therefore , that , as the result of the more active metabolism of the prickle cells under the influence of scharlach R , a chemiotactic action is set up , leading to the appearance of these cells .
The implanted normal corium in the second and third series of experiments did not excite any marked chemiotactic response , no invasion of new cells into it being noted .
The cartilage survived in most implantations ; when it underwent necrosis , however , it did not become invaded by new cells , its hyaline substance remaining as an inert body , and its nuclei becoming shrivelled and staining indistinctly .
Summary .
1 .
During the first 7 to 14 days after implantation of actively proliferating epithelium of the rabbit 's ear , mitosis proceeds apparently undiminished in amount in such portions of the prickle layer as escape necrosis .
2 .
In contrast to living prickle cells , dead prickle cells , when implanted under the skin , exert a powerful chemiotactic action , determining at first the appearance of polynuclear cells and later of large mononuclear and giant cells ; before the latter the dead prickle layer slowly disappears .
Even living prickle cells , when actively proliferating under the influence of scharlach R prior to implantation , induce chemiotactically , through their increased metabolism , the appearance of numerous cells\gt ; mostly mono-nucleated , in the subjacent corium ; this is , however , much slighter in degree than that induced by dead proliferated epithelium .
3 .
No metaplasia of actively proliferating epithelium occurs as a result of implantation .
4 .
Horny epidermic scales and hair shafts remain intact , behaving as inert bodies .

