On the Instability of a Cortical By T. Graham Brown and C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. ( Received March 16 , \#151 ; Read May 2 , 1912 .
) ( From the Physiology Laboratory of the University of Liverpool .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE I. Introduction ... ... ... .M ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
250 II .
Methods Employed ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
; ... ... ... ... . .
251 III .
Changes in the Response of a Cortical Point in Result of Serial Stimulation of it ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 253 IV .
Change in the Response of a Cortical Point subsequent to Stimulation of a Cortical Point Antagonistic to it ... ... ... ... ... 260 V. Influence of Certain Afferent Nerves upon the Reaction of the Cortical Point ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 266 VI .
Effect of Concurrent Stimulation of Two Cortical Points Antagonistic to each other ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .\#151 ; - ... ... . .
271 VII .
Post-Central Convolution ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
273 VIII .
After-discharge subsequent to the Response of a Cortical Point ... 274 a. Tonic After-discharge ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 274 b. Epileptoid After-discharge ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
274 c. Rebounds ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
275 IX .
Conclusions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
276 I. Introduction .
Slight and transient differences in the depth of narcosis , in the freedom of blood supply , and in the temperature of the preparation modify reactions obtained from stimulation of the motor area in the cortex cerebri with a^facility and to a degree not met in the study of purely spinal or decerebrate reflexes .
The observer , when first attempting to decipher the rules exhibited by the reflex activities of a spinal or of a decerebrate preparation , naturally turns first to those results which lend themselves best , by regularity and harmony , to exact formulation .
Occasional exceptions as they arise are reserved for examination in the future .
In a similar manner , the codification of those responses which are obtained with the greatest reliability from the several cortical points is what at first chiefly concerns the observer in the study of the elicitation of different movements from different points in the cortex cerebri .
In the present observations , however , our aim has been rather to note to * The expenses of this research have been in part defrayed by a grant from the Carnegie Trust .
Instability of Cortical Points .
251 what degree the reaction obtained from one and the same topographical point of the cortex may vary from time to time .
In doing so , we are following a trend of enquiry very noticeable in recent experimental study of reflex and other nervous reactions .
The reversal ( " Uinkehr " ) of the sense of the movement elicited by identical stimulations of the same reflex preparation as determined by this or that accessory change in the other conditions of the experiment has been a frequent theme in recent papers .
Such observations , besides tending to throw light on the reflex working of the neural machinery , have the further interest that they tend\#151 ; although perhaps remotely\#151 ; to make some approach towards study of the physiological conditions which underlie " will , " if so bold a use of the* term may be allowed .
Variations of the muscular response given by one and the same point of the motor cortex conformably with variations in the degree of narcosis , etc. , have been met often in our observations .
Such have frequently been described by other experimenters ; and , since they are well known , we do not intend to discuss them now .
We wish , however , to call attention to some other sources of variability of the cortical responses^ instances of alteration and of reversal more closely analogous to those recently studied in the case of reflex preparations .
II .
Methods Employed .
The material used in these present observations has been provided entirely by the monkeys and the anthropoid apes .
One chimpanzee { Troglodytes niger ) has been used , one baboon { Papio anubis ) , and the remainder ordinary small monkeys { Macacus rhesus , Macacus sinicus , Cattothrix ) .
All of the experiments were done under chloroform and ether narcosis .
For the purposes of graphic registration ( as in the majority of the observations ) , two muscles which antagonise each other at the elbow\#151 ; supinator longus and the humeral head of the triceps\#151 ; have been used .
These have been isolated , and the complication of movement of other than the selected parts has been abolished\#151 ; by the motor paralysis o the other muscles at the shoulder , elbow , and wrist .
The muscles so treated have been\#151 ; trapezius , deltoid , supraspinatus , infraspinatus , teres major , teres minor , latissimus dorsi , scapular head of triceps , pectoralis major , pectoralis minor , biceps , and coraco-brachialis , and all the muscles of the fore-arm with the exception of the supinator longus .
The lower end of triceps has been freed by division of the olecranon process and connected directly by a thread with one of the recording levers .
The supinator longus has not , however , been interfered with , but the elbow has been allowed to swing free , and the 252 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 , movement of that muscle recorded by registering the movements of the lower end of the fore-arm .
To fix the origins of the recording muscles , the humerus was transfixed by steel holders at the head and through the condyles .
This fixation was of sufficient firmness to prevent the movements of other muscles from complicating the records .
Cortical stimulation was applied by the unipolar method .
Two electrodes were so arranged that either could be used separately at will .
The secondary circuit was completed by the simultaneous closure of two keys , one of which was in the wire of the unipolar electrode , and the other of which was in the -path of the indifferent one .
A third key was closed mechanically at the same time .
This made a signal circuit .
A similar arrangement of keys was used in the case of the second electrode .
The advantage of this arrangement , when both electrodes were on the cortex , was that there was no danger of a short circuit through one electrode , as might be the case if a system of short-circuit keys was used .
The stimulating arrangements were such that the circuits might also be applied either to the contralateral or to the ipsilateral ulnar nerve by the bi-polar method , so that peripheral stimulation might be applied at will .
The left arm muscles were used for registration in all the observations .
In the following descriptions , the words contralateral and ipsilateral always refer to the locus of the stimulus in reference to the observed arm .
In regard to stimulation of the cortex , our general procedure has been to seek out in the arm area two points , one yielding primary flexion at the elbow , and the other primary extension .
In our experience a flexion-point can usually be found somewhat more easily than can be an extension-point ; and the field of cortex from which the former can be selected is the wider .
Points yielding extension lie for the most part higher up upon the convolution ( gyrus jprecentralis ) and nearer to the dorsal limit of the arm area .
But the points which best yielded extension have varied unmistakably in their exact position from experiment to experiment\#151 ; although sometimes closely corresponding in situation .
In some experiments , the area whence extension-points could be chosen has been distinctly larger than in others .
Our impression from the observations has been that this variability signifies less a difference in the permanent arrangement than a difference in the condition of the nervous system from time to time .
In one case the same point which yielded primary extension with much regularity , on re-examination 28 hours later in the same animal , yielded at first primary flexion instead of the usual primary extension .
The cause of this difference between experiments carried out under regularly similar conditions we are unable to assign .
Instability of Cortical Points .
1912 .
] By an extension response we mean one in which the primary movement is extension as regards the isolated muscles under observation at the elbow .
By a flexion response we mean conversely one in which the primary movement in these muscles is flexion .
It may be added that a flexion response has in our preparation two modes of expressing itself ; it can either cause contraction of the flexor muscle , or it can cause inhibitory relaxation of the extensor muscle\#151 ; but this latter form will be obvious only if the extensor be in some degree of contraction at the time when the inhibition occurs .
Very often the two effects\#151 ; contraction of flexor and inhibitory relaxation of extensor\#151 ; result together ( reciprocal innervation ) .
But sometimes only the one or the other is observable , and of these the evident one is frequently the inhibitory relaxation .
Similarly , an extension response has two means of expressing itself in the preparation\#151 ; namely , either in contraction of the extensor muscle or in inhibitory relaxation of the flexor muscle\#151 ; and very often it expresses itself in both of these ways together , but sometimes by one or the other alone .
For brevity , a cortical point which , under ordinary conditions of stimulation , regularly yields a primary flexion response may be termed an " F " point ; and similarly a cortical point which regularly yields a primary extension response may be termed an " E " point .
III .
Changes in the Response of a Cortical Point in Result of Serial Stimulation of it .
We find that successive stimulations of one and the same cortical point at short intervals of time usually produce , as is well known , marked facilitation and intensification of the response .
This is clearly demonstrated when stimulations of two seconds ' duration are repeated at two seconds ' intervals without change in their intensity or other characters ( figs. 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ) .
The responses in the earlier portion of the series tend to exhibit a regularly progressive shortening of the latent period ( figs. 4 , 5 ) and an increase in the amplitude and intensity of the muscular effects , and this increase in some cases proceeds through a long series of responses , so that although the opening member of the series is very weak , the last may produce a maximal contraction of the muscle , or , if that is already present , may maintain it ( fig. 4 ) .
Sometimes , however , the character of the response exhibits changes qualitative as well as quantitative .
Thus a point which began by yielding primary extension may come to yield primary flexion in the latter part of the series .
Its action undergoes reversal .
Such reversal , although taking place yradatim , may in some cases develop very rapidly ( fig. 1 ) .
Similarly an F point yielding primary flexion at the beginning of a series 254 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar.-16 , sometimes changes its response so as to yield primary extension even after a comparatively small number of repetitions .
Reversals of this kind tend in our experience to occur more frequently with E points than with F points .
The reversal may evidence itself as relaxation of one muscle along with contraction of the other , or it may be C to D C 70 D C 70 z\gt ; Alt t to ssed cortex .
Fig. 1 .
Experiment 13 , Callothrix , 19.2.12.\#151 ; Record of a series of four successive stimulations of an extensor ( M E " ) point , each stimulation being of a duration of about 2 secs .
, with intervals of 2 secs , between successive stimuli .
In this record the movements of the flexor muscle alone are reproduced .
At the first application of the stimulus the flexor relaxes .
In the succeeding interval there is a partial recovery of the flexor tonus .
The second stimulus evokes relaxation , followed by contraction , through the period of stimulation .
The third gives a shorter phase of relaxation and a greater contraction .
At the fourth application of the stimulus there is a response of almost pure contraction .
In this and in all succeeding records the rise of the curve denotes contraction of the recorded muscle , and the fall relaxation .
Below the muscle tracings are two signal lines .
In these the fall of the signal denotes the beginning of stimulation and the rise the end of stimulation .
These points are marked by capital letters ( C , D , E , F , A , B , X , Y ) , and on the muscle tracings ordinates which correspond in time to the signal marks have been drawn .
The ordinates bear the corresponding small letters .
In the signal lines the numerals give the relative strengths of stimulus as measured by the distance in centimetres between the primary and secondary coils .
The lowest line marks time in seconds .
In all succeeding figures the movements of both of the antagonistic muscles are reproduced .
The upper tracing is that obtained from the flexor\#151 ; supinator longus ; and the lower tracing is that obtained from the extensor\#151 ; the humeral head of the triceps .
A millimetre scale has been drawn upon the tracing before it was varnished , and is therefore reduced in the same ratio as the remainder of the record .
In many other records there are additional ordinates drawn upon the two muscle tracings , to demonstrate the correspondence in time of different parts .
These are numbered in Arabic numerals .
The letters u CP , " sometimes present in the signal lines , mean that in these records the primary current was broken immediately after the cutting of the secondary circuits .
1912 .
] Instability of Cortical .
255 limited in appearance to relaxation alone\#151 ; that is , to the replacement of contraction by inhibitory relaxation .
Fig. 2 .
Experiment 14 , Macacus sinicusy 21.2.12.\#151 ; Record of a series of nine successive stimuli of the same strength applied to an extensor-point .
The first four of these evoke flexor relaxation and extensor contraction , but the fifth gives a reaction of flexor contraction and extensor relaxation , and this reversed reaction continues in the succeeding stimuli .
This shows reversal of an extension reaction to one of flexion during repetition of the same stimulus applied to the same cortical point .
It will be observed that at first there is built up an extensor tonus , and that in the terminal part of the record a flexor tonus is produced .
It may further be seen that with the production of these states of tonus there is a reciprocal diminution of the tonus of the antagonist .
Amongst these reversals a case which should perhaps be considered apart as belonging to a special category is that in which a flexion-point when restimulated during the course of an epileptoid discharge started by its own precedent stimulation produces , as it not infrequently does , prompt inhibitory relaxation of the flexor muscle which it previously threw into FiG .
3 , a. Experiment 15 , Callotbrix , 4.3.12.\#151 ; The two portions of this figure are directly continuous .
In the first portion ( ft ) there is at first a series of sixteen successive stimulations of the same extension-point and with the same strength of stimulus .
These are numbered with Roman numerals .
This demonstrates a successive facilitation of the extensor reaction , the extensor contractions increasing in extent along with a reciprocal increase in the extent of the flexor relaxations .
There is also a well marked production of extensor tonus , and it will be noticed that the extensor contractions do not summate upon this .
There is almost no evidence of reversal by repetition of stimulatioh here , although the preliminary relaxations of the extensor , which appear for the first time at stimulus " X , ' ' may be evidence of such a reversal .
In this part of the record the two terminal stimuli ( Arabic numerals , 1 , 2 ) are those of a flexion-point .
The first gives some extensor relaxation and a strong flexor rebound .
The second gives a partial flexor relaxation , followed during stimulation by a flexor contraction .
The tracing ends in a state of marked flexor tonus , which is seen to be more rapidly established than is the extensor tonus .
256 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 , iAA^\AAAAA5A Si \H \ SHI Ifi \ V w mem A -Y.\ a a vA .
VA \^rVrA A i\ A ' A : Y\amp ; W V\A v\\AA ; VvAW \\ ; A\ \ \ \ \ V , \ P AA\AAAA c ' 7v c ' ci e ' j* ' e ' .
f !
\amp ; f\gt ; .
HU lm ; v\A e\#177 ; eilf em* eWf eys A^-^iAA !
AilSIAi \#166 ; X .
\ .
X , \/ L N " c 2 ct ^e~U f eMf elFf e v$T cTTrcrar e jT .A ejj jf eMf E F ~E F l ?
-\#163 ; lrFlr~F , CCj* !
\#177 ; A \#171 ; ' \lt ; ?
, r _\#163 ; \#163 ; " $ r 4"C^ r\#151 ; Lr- ^AA\#151 ; \#151 ; \lt ; ?
i ?
A P B P B PE F C D D *S* ccS ccS__________ccS r , T---1 , f- 1____f~~~\#151 ; j---EP EF E Fra .
3 , b. In the second portion of the tracing there is , first , a series of five stimuli of the same extension-point as before .
At the first of these there is a slight augmentation of the state of flexor maintained contraction and no extensor contraction .
In the second there is , however , extensor contraction and a great flexor relaxation .
The series then proceeds as before\#151 ; the extensor tonus rising with a reciprocal fall of flexor tonus .
Stimulation of the flexion-point is again twice repeated ( C\#151 ; D , Arabic numerals 1 , 2 ) .
A state of maintained flexor contraction is at once established .
At the second stimulus both muscles are seen to contract .
There is again repeated a series of five stimuli of the same extension-point as before .
The first of these gives no obvious reaction .
At the second there is a good extensor contraction and flexor relaxation .
There is then a restitution of the flexor tonus , which is , however , finally broken down at the next stimulus , at which a state of maintained extensor tonus is again established .
This is done more rapidly than before .
After this two flexion-point stimuli re-establish the state of maintained flexor contraction , and this is again broken down by the repetition of the extension-point stimuli , even although there is not then produced a state of maintained extensor contraction .
to Oi 1912 .
] Instability of Cortical Point Fig. 4 .
Experiment 15 , Callothrixy 5.3.12.\#151 ; Record of a series of twenty successive stimulations of an extension-point , followed by a series of nine successive stimulations of a flexion-point .
The first series demonstrates very clearly the facilitation of the* extension reaction by repetition of stimulation .
It also shows the establishment of a state of maintained extensor contraction and of reciprocal flexor relaxation .
There is a slight evidence of reversal by repetition of stimulation in the preliminary extensor relaxation which first appears in stimulus TV .
The flexionjseries is of interest in that it shows that in this case the first appearance of the reaction was as extensor relaxation , and that it was only in.the fourth repetition of the stimulus that the flexor contraction first appeared .
Here the state of maintained flexor contraction is present , but is not so marked as in the previous figures , aaviiillliMH 258 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 1912 .
] Instability of Cortical Points .
AH c c. poin t ^ : 15cm Fig. 5 .
xperiment 15 , Callothrix , 5.2.12.\#151 ; Record of a series of seventeen successive stimuli applied at the *e strength to the same flexion-point of the cortex .
This demonstrates at first facilitation of the ( jtion and an establishment of a state of maintained flexor contraction .
After stimulus X the t tion becomes diphasic , there being at first relaxation followed by contraction .
This , which is secularly well marked in the case of stimulus XII , shows a partial flexion reversal by repetition of ihulation .
contraction ( fig. 6 ) .
This reversal , however , does not always take place ; sometimes the restimulation of the point tends to increase the contraction of the muscle although it does at the same time lessen the clonic factor in the epileptoid discharge while augmenting the non-clonic factor .
260 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 Fio .
6 .
Experiment 14 , Macacus sinicus , 21.2.12.\#151 ; Record of a series of five successive stimuli applied to a flexion-point on the cortex .
The first evokes a flexor contraction , which is followed by slight epilepsy .
The second stimulus is applied during this , and instead of giving a flexor contraction , produces a relaxation .
After this the epilepsy becomes more evident , and a third stimulus again reduces it .
The epilepsy is again established at the cessation of the third stimulus , and is again reduced by the application of the fourth stimulus .
The flexor epilepsy is not again established , and a fifth stimulus gives no apparent reaction .
This record demonstrates reversal during epilepsy .
IV .
Change in the Response of a Cortical Point Subsequent to Stimulation of a Cortical Point Antagonistic to it .
( a ) Change in the Response of an Extension-Point subsequent to Stimulation oj a Flexion-Point .
The relative constancy of the characters of the muscular response to an extension-point having been ascertained for a given stimulus by registering 1912 .
] Instability of Cortical Points .
the responses a few times at given intervals , the effect of interpolating a stimulation of a flexor-point in such an interval can be examined .
The result of this interpolation is not infrequently practically to suppress the response of the E point for the time being , or to reduce one or other or both .
\#187 ; f its components ( contraction and relaxation ) very markedly ( figs. 7 , 8 ) .
Fig. 7 .
Experiment 8 , Macacus rhesus , 29.1.12 .
E.F.E.\#151 ; Record of two reactions evoked on stimulation of the same extension point ( C\#151 ; D , I and II ) with an interpolated stimulation of a flexion-point ( E\#151 ; F ) .
The first stimulation of the extension-point gives a marked extensor contraction and flexor relaxation .
On its cessation there is a state of extensor tonus .
This is broken down on stimulation of the flexion-point , and there is a marked flexor contraction , which persists after the cessation of the stimulus .
The second application of the extension-point stimulation gives a certain degree of flexor relaxation ( but not to such an extent as before ) and no extensor contraction .
This shows an approximation to reversal\#151 ; that is to say , depression of both factors in the extension response .
Sometimes , however , the effect is an actual reversal of the usual response of the E point .
The reversal may be partial or complete .
In the former case the extinction of the contraction of the extensor may predominate .
In 262 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 Fig. 8 .
Experiment 11 , Callothrix , 14.2.12 .
E.F.E.E.E.\#151 ; In this record the conditions were the same as in the preceding figure , save that the stimulation of the extension-point was repeated thrice after the application of a stimulus to the flexion-point .
The first E stimulus evoked a good extensor contraction .
An F stimulus then gave a good flexor contraction and extensor relaxation .
A second E stimulus then apparently increased a state of flexor epilepsy ; a third evoked ( after the disappearance of the flexor epilepsy ) a slight extensor contraction which soon disappeared during the application of the stimulus and in its disappearance was accompanied by a flexor contraction ; a fourth gave almost pure flexor contraction of an epileptiform type .
This record demonstrates reversal of the extension reaction by inter-current flexion-point stimulation .
the full reversal contraction of the flexor replaces contraction of the extensor as the primary feature of the response ( figs. 9 , 10 ) .
1912 .
] Instability of Cortical Points .
Fig. 9 .
Experiment 9 , Macacvs rhesus , 9.2.12 .
E.F.E.\#151 ; In this record a stimulus is twice ' applied to an extension-point ( C\#151 ; D , I and II ) , and between the two applications a flexion-point is stimulated ( E\#151 ; F ) .
The first E stimulus gives a reaction of extensor contraction followed by flexor-contraction , so that at the end of the period of stimulation both the antagonists are in contraction at the same time .
The F stimulus is then applied , and a subsequent E stimulus then evokes a reaction consisting of contraction of the flexor alone .
This record demonstrated complete reversal of the extension reaction by interpolated stimulation of a flexion-point .
( b ) Changes in the Response of a Flexion-Point following Excitation of an Extension-Point .
Just as repeated or strong excitation of a flexion-point often temporarily diminishes or suppresses the subsequent response of an extension-point , so conversely the response of a flexion-point is often temporarily lessened or retarded or rendered more difficult immediately subsequent to similar stimulation of an extension-point .
The tendency of an E point thus to antagonise an F point is , however , in our experience , distinctly less marked than is that of an F point to suppress or to overcome an E point .
Sometimes , however , 264 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 , the action , of an F point is reversed after stimulation of an E point , and probably in consequence of the action of that point .
This is shewn in the accompanying figure ( fig. 11 ) .
Here the F point , although it caused contraction of the flexor four seconds before the stimulation of the E point , produces four seconds after that stimulation nothing but relaxation of that muscle , e ./ a d e_tf 1 ___5 E 76 F C m re r_ \#166 ; \#151 ; I cca cat Fig. 10 .
Fig. 11 .
Experiment 14 , Macacus sinicus , 21.2.12 .
E.F.E.\#151 ; This record ^demonstrates the same phenomena of reversal as the preceding one , but the appearances are more complete .
Here the first E stimulus evokes extensor contraction and flexor relaxation .
The second E stimulus ( applied after a flexion-point stimulus ) gives flexor contraction and slight extensor relaxation\#151 ; a clear case of complete reversal .
Experiment 14 , Macacus sinicus , 21.2.12 .
, F.E.F.F.\#151 ; In this record an F stimulus ( C\#151 ; D , I ) gives a good flexion reaction .
An E stimulus ( E\#151 ; F ) then gives a reaction in which there is exhibited at first augmentation of flexor tonus and then flexor relaxation accompanied by extensor contraction .
A second F stimulus ( C\#151 ; D , II ) then gives a relaxation of the flexor contraction in an epileptic state , as also does a third .
VOL. LXXXV .
C ' 1 d ' Immediately alter this cortical reactions tested ( Points 7j 6 ) but absent e j y c i cl e 2 jj i CrossedTorteoT~~ " Point *\#166 ; __ _^Poinfo.fJ_plaint i Jr\#151 ; E lSCm^P , C72cm .
D E 72cm .
JP Fig. 12 .
Experiment 12 , Troglodytes niger , 16.2.12 .
F.E.F.\#151 ; In this record an F stimulus ( E\#151 ; F , I ) gives a good flexion reaction .
An E-stimulus ( C\#151 ; D ) then gives a distinct extension reaction , and a second F stimulus then gives a flexion reaction which is of greater extent and shorter latency than before .
This is followed on cessation of stimulation by an epileptic discharge which is evidenced in both muscles and rapidly dies away .
It is , however , soon succeeded by a second epileptic discharge which begins in the flexor muscle and is then accompanied by extensor relaxation .
The extensor soon , however , contracts and at the same time the discharge becomes discontinuous clonic .
The beats become slower and of greater extent and then suddenly cease .
This was followed by 44 post-epileptic n inexcitability .
1912 .
] Instability of Cortical Points .
265 266 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 , and similarly again four seconds later .
Here , however , it must be noted that the flexor at the time of the second and third repetitions of the F point stimulation is exhibiting epileptoid contraction .
Occasionally , as in fig. 12 , the interpolation of brief stimulation of an E point is followed by a somewhat increased response of the F point , but in such cases it is , of course , difficult to decide whether this slight increase may not be due to the precurrent stimulation of the F point itself which is necessary as a control at the beginning of the observation .
Y. Influence of Certain Afferent Nerves upon the Reaction of the Cortical Point .
As the antagonistic pair of muscles under observation actuated the forearm , it seemed that stimulation of an afferent nerve of the fore-arm might influence the response of the observed muscles to stimulation of the cortical points .
That in the chloratised rabbit electrical stimulation of the skin of the fore paw and of the fore limb cortex of the opposite hemisphere usually summate has been shown by Exner.* And , recently , A. Uchtomsky has carefully examined in the dog the mutual influence of the peroneal and other limb nerves on the responses of the motor cortex for the limb , both ipsilateral and contralateral .
He finds marked mutual interaction , both facilitatory and inhibitory , and that " im allgemeinen bei gegenseitiger Einwirkung der kortikalen und der reflektorischen Innervationen der Beine die ersteren eine weit iiberwiegende Rolle spielen .
" In our observations nervus uhmris in the fore-arm was the nerve chosen and it was stimulated by faradisation .
It was ascertained that in the decerebrate preparation ( monkey ) stimulation of this afferent nerve usually evokes contraction of the flexor and inhibitory relaxation of the extensor when that nerve is the ipsilateral one , and conversely evokes contraction of the extensor and inhibitory relaxation of the flexor when it is contralateral .
This is in accord with the general rule previously formulated chiefly from cat and dog .
It was expected , therefore , that when working with the muscles of the left elbow the stimulation of the left ulnar nerve would reinforce the effect of stimulation of an F point of the right hemisphere .
And this was found to be the case ( fig. 13 ) .
Conversely , stimulation of right ulnar , as might be expected , was observed to diminish the effect of the stimulation of the right hemisphere 's cortical F point ( fig. 14 ) .
But the tracing here reproduced illustrates a further result , namely , that the cortical F-point on restimula* ' Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' 1882 , vol. 28 , p. 502 .
1912.1 Instability of Cortical Points .
tion after the peripheral nerve stimulation may produce relaxation instead of contraction of the flexor muscle\#151 ; that is , may show reversal of its previous action .
Whether such reversal is referable to the epileptoid discharge iaduced or to the influence of the precurrent peripheral nerve stimulation remains , however , an open question .
Turning to the influence of the peripheral nerve stimulation upon the Fig. 13 .
Experiment 15 , Callothrix , 5.2.12.\#151 ; In this record a cortical point which was giving primary flexion was stimulated ( E\#151 ; F ) , and during that stimulation another stimulus ( X\#151 ; Y ) was applied to the ipsilateral ulnar nerve .
The cortical stimulus just before the application of the nerve stimulus had produced a contraction of both the antagonists .
The effect of the nerve stimulus was to augment the contraction of the flexor and abolish that of the extensor .
response of the cortical E point , this influence has been marked in the case of the ulnar nerve of the ipsilateral side .
The stimulation of this nerve , while reinforcing the action of the F point ( cf , supra ) , seems to antagonise that ol the E point .
Sometimes temporarily the reaction of the E point is practically suppressed after the reaction from the ipsilateral ulnar nerve ( fig. 15 ) .
Sometimes E 's reaction is absolutely reversed ; this we have seen when during an ipsilateral ulnar stimulation the E point has been excited and instead of T 2 m \Ui 1 Li i ; i m u l Vi m \ \ \#166 ; \ \ \ \ .
\ \\\ \ V \ k\\ \\_\ v:\i^.AV , I c ' _ d'a ' V c ' " d ' i i ; a II 7 A ' \lt ; 3- V \#166 ; X \#166 ; \Hinmui \#166 ; \ \ \..r a \\ a 70 iinrvnus \ / VAV v\\V\ \ \ \ .
A r\k_\ r~ \ A 1 \ , V \#166 ; : -A ... . .
X \ \ rrr\#151 ; ... ... ... .\~-T ... . .
' ( T d a h c d C j. d a b O il- n ^pqiif ] C T* ~DC14 1\gt ; C%(nfl c / f I ) !
r~A , 1912 .
] Instability of Cortical Points .
y Fig. 15 .
Experiment 9 , Macacus rhesus , 9.2.12.\#151 ; In this record a cortical E point is twice stimulated with an interpolated stimulation of the ipsilateral ulnar nerve .
The first E stimulus gives a good extension reaction .
The ipsilateral ulnar nerve then gives a flexion-reflex .
At the second repetition of the E stimulus there is little movement in the extensor tracing , and the state of maintained flexor contraction is not markedly interfered with , there being only a transient and small relaxation .
This shows depression of the E point reaction .
causing relaxation of the flexor 's contraction has increased that contraction , although on being restimulated a few seconds after the cessation of the ulnar reaction it has caused its usual flexor relaxation ( fig. 16 ) .
Taken together , the effect of the stimulation of the ipsilateral afferent nerve , which in the decerebrate preparation is to contract the flexor and inhibit the extensor of its own limb 's elbow , is with the cerebrum intact to augment the action of the cortical point for elbow flexion and to reverse the action of the cortical point for elbow extension .
to elbow flexion .
This indicates that the activity of the local peripheral afferents may be a factor of importance in determining what one of us has termed the neural balance Fig. 16 .
Experiment 15 , Callotfvrix .
4.3.12.\#151 ; This figure consists of five consecutive records .
In the first of these a stimulus is first applied to the ipsilateral ulnar nerve , and during this the E point is stimulated .
After the commencement of the E stimulus there is seen to be a marked augmentation of the flexor contraction .
This slightly decreases when the E stimulus is stopped , although the stimulation of the nerve is still in process .
The second record , taken a few seconds after the first , shows that the E stimulus alone gives an extensor contraction and flexor relaxation .
This is then followed , after cessation of stimulation , by a state of maintained extensor contraction which is epileptiform in character .
^ During this a stimulus applied to the ipsilateral ulnar nerve gives a flexion reflex .
The third record ( 1 min. later ) shows a flexion reflex , evoked by stimulation of the ipsilateral ulnar nerve .
It will be seen that this is of greater extent than that evoked during the epileptiform discharge of the extensor .
The fourth record ( 1 min. later ) is a repetition of the first , and again shows\#151 ; on E-point stimulation\#151 ; augmentation of the flexor contraction evoked by stimulation of the ipsilateral ulnar nerve .
If the outline of this and the first flexor tracing be compared with the outline in the third record , it will be observed that it is similar up to the point at which the E point is stimulated ( ordinates e , y ) and there markedly steepens .
The fifth record ( 1 min. later ) allows again the effect of stimulation of the E point alone-\#151 ; a marked wrt\amp ; naisw .
270 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 , 1912 .
] histability of Cortical Points .
of the nervous system throughout a whole series of centres dealing with the locality whence the excited afferents proceed .
The mutual influence of the peripheral stimulus ( afferent nerve ) and cortical point on each other 's responses depends largely on the relative intensities of their stimulations .
Thus the effect of the cortical E point can be wholly reversed by the stimulation of the afferent nerve with certain intensities of stimulation .
But with stronger stimulation of the E point its own usual effect can be made to break through , and for a time wholly suppress that of the afferent nerve .
There are intermediate degrees in which the E point 's effect , although initially reversed , quickly returns subsequently to its own usual character and subtracts from that of the peripheral nerve and even wholly suppresses it .
VI .
The Effect of Concurrent Stimulation of Two Cortical Points Antagonistic to Each Other .
In some of the experiments the stimulation apparatus has been so arranged as to allow of faradisation of two cortical points at the same time .
We have Fig. 17 .
Experiment 15 , Callothrix , 4.3.12.\#151 ; In this record a cortical F point ( C\#151 ; D ) is stimulated , and during the period of stimulation a cortical E point ( E\#151 ; F ) is concurrently stimulated .
It will be seen that during the F reaction the E stimulus produces a flexor relaxation and a late extensor contraction .
272 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 , Fig. 18 . .
Fig. 19 .
Experiment 15 , Callothrix , 4.3.12.\#151 ; From the same experiment as the last , but here the E stimulus ( E\#151 ; F ) is first applied , and during its application the F stimulus ( C\#151 ; D ) is given .
Here the extensor contraction is cut down during the F stimulus , and the flexor relaxation gives place to contraction .
At the cessation of the F stimulus the flexor relaxation and extensor contraction are re-established .
Experiment 15 , Callothrix , 4.3.12.\#151 ; In this record the F stimulus is first applied , and the E stimulus is applied later during its application .
The E stimulus here does not so markedly antagonise the F reaction as in fig. 17 .
The extensor tonus is re-established and the flexor relaxes , but not to the level which obtained before the first stimulus was applied .
in this manner sought to see the effect on the reactions of one point produced by intermittent stimulation of its antagonistic point .
Figs. 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 illustrate the effect .
The F point stimulated intermittently during the stimulation of an E point may antagonise that action and establish its own .
The E point acting during the action of an F point may similarly break through the F point response and establish its own effect .
But there is evidence that in such cases the intercurrent point does not get its full play , in other words that1 there is some algebraic summation of the two opposed actions .
When the stimulations of E point and F point are nearly balanced there 1912.1 Instability of Cortical Points .
273 is a tendency for whichever of the two is applied subsequently to break through the effect of its opponent .
Fio .
20 .
Experiment 15 , Callothnx , 5.3.12.\#151 ; Here the E point ( E\#151 ; F ) on stimulation gives flexor relaxation , and concui*rent stimulation of the F point ( C\#151 ; D ) reverses this to flexor contraction , but at the same time there is an extensor contraction , so that both the antagonists are in contraction at one and the same time .
The cessation of the E stimulus is followed by an epileptiform discharge in both the antagonists .
An examination of the ordinates numbered 1\#151 ; 7 on the two muscle tracings shows that the beats in these are reciprocal .
Thus ordinate 5 on the extensor tracing cuts the lowest point in a beat , while the corresponding ordinate 5 in the flexor tracing cuts the top of a beat .
Thus near this point relaxation during a beat in one muscle was accompanied by contraction during a beat in the other .
VII .
Post-central Convolution .
We have on a number of occasions found stimulation of points in the post-central convolution near the lower end of the intra-parietal sulcus modify the epileptoid after-discharge following stimulations of points in the arm-area of the pre-central convolution .
Points in the post-central convolution when stimulated immediately after cessation of a stimulation of a pre-central gyrus are frequently able to evolve some return of the movement just previously 274 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 , elicited from the pre-central convolution , producing , so to say , an echo of the pre-current response , but this dies out usually after the first repetition .
VIII .
After-Discharge subsequent to the Response of a Cortical Point .
, 1 ( a ) Tonic After-Discharge .
Among the forms of after-action ( attached to the responses ) evoked by cortical stimulations one commonly met with is what may he termed " tonus remainder .
" This was noted by Bubnoff and Heidenhain in certain degrees of morphia-action in the dog ; they speak of the phenomenon as contracture.* It resembles closely the shortening reaction observable in reflexes evoked during decerebrate rigidity .
It differs from that , however , ( 1 ) in being less complete , i.e. , in less completely maintaining the full amplitude of the contraction on which it supervenes , and ( 2 ) in appending itself to flexor as well as to extensor contractions ( figs. 3 , a , b ; 4 ; 5 ; 16 ) , whereas in decerebrate rigidity it is only the extensor contractions which exhibit the post-stimulatory continuance .
Conversely , just as in decerebrate rigidity a lengthening reaction .
appends itself to and prolongs a reflex relaxation , so too after cortical inhibitory relaxations a relaxation remainder persists as a common after-effect .
Here also the appended remainder does not so nearly equal the full relaxation it follows as it does in decerebrate rigidity .
And here too it appends itself in the cortical reactions both to flexor and to extensor effects ; whereas in decerebrate rigidity it appends itself to extensor alone .
The degree of tonus in the antagonistic muscles is reciprocal ; and the influence of a cortical point on the tonus as seen in the effect of stimulation of the point is also reciprocal ( figs. 2 , 3 , 4 ) .
( b ) Epileptoid After-Discharge .
Epileptoid after-discharge of limited distribution has occurred not infrequently in our experiments .
It has been frequently observable that the epileptiform clonic discharge following upon stimulation of an F point or an E point is confined as far as the muscles under examination by the myograph are concerned to one of the antagonists ( figs. 6 , 8 , 11 , 14 , 16 ) .
We have more than once seen that an epileptoid discharge in the flexor muscle following on stimulation of a flexor cortical point is increased by subsequent stimulation of an extension cortical point ( fig. 8 ) , while restimulation of the flexion cortical point diminished the epileptoid discharge during the period of the stimulation ( fig. 11 ) .
* ' Pfluger 's Archiv , ' 1882 , vol. 26 , p. 136 .
1912.1 Instability of Cortical Points .
275 Although the epileptiform clonus has often been confined to one of the antagonistic muscles , either flexor alone or extensor alone , sometimes it has appeared in both these muscles together ( figs. 12 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 ) ; the effect has then been sometimes exquisitely reciprocal ( fig. 20 ) , but not uniformly so , a sudden break in the rhythm of the clonus of one muscle occasionally disturbing the mutual relation .
Subsequent to a partial epileptoid after-discharge we have frequently found the area of cortex whence the discharge was initiated irresponsive for a time ( post-epileptic exhaustion of Franqois-Franek and Pitries ) .
In our experiments this was particularly noticeable in the case of the cortex of the anthropoid ape , the chimpanzee ( fig. 12 ) , and more marked than in the case of the smaller monkeys ( macacus ) which we have used .
( c ) Rebounds .
In his interesting monograph on the reactions of the motor cortex of the dog , A. de Uchtomsky* has called attention to rebound effects , both excitatory and inhibitory , following cortical stimulations , and furnishes excellent illustrations of them .
From his work we gather in comparing with it our observations on the monkey that cortical rebounds tend to occur more frequently in the dog than in the monkey .
We have seen on several occasions that a cortical stimulus which produces inhibition of one of the muscles under observation is , on its cessation , followed by a contraction of the inhibited muscle .
This contraction appears to be a rebound contraction similar to the rebound contractions which are exhibited so frequently by extensor muscles after an inhibitory reaction in the decerebrate preparation , and more rarely in purely spinal preparations .
In the experiments with the cortex we have met with examples of rebound contractions both in the extensor and in the flexor muscles ( figs. 21 , 22 ) .
They are not , however , in our experience nearly so often met with as in the reflex reactions of the decerebrate preparation .
* ' On the Dependence of Cortical Motor Reactions upon Central Associated Influences ( Russian ) , Moscow , 1911 .
276 Mr. Graham Brown and Prof. C. S. Sherrington .
[ Mar. 16 , Fig. 21 .
Fig. 21 = Expt. 8 .
Fig. 22 = Expt. 15 .
K 7 5 era Fig. 22 .
Experiment 8 , Macacus rhesus , 29.1.12.\#151 ; Record of the stimulation of a cortical flexion-point ( E\#151 ; F ) .
The cessation of stimulation is seen here to be followed at an interval of about 1*5 seconds by an extensor rebound contraction .
Experiment 15 , Callothrix , 5.3.12.\#151 ; Record of the stimulation of an extension-point ( E\#151 ; F ) .
The cessation of stimulation is here followed at a short interval by extensor relaxation and a small , but clear , flexor rebound contraction .
IX .
Conclusions .
The cortical effects , as examined in this pair of antagonistic muscles , are clearly very complex and composite .
Variable latencies , sometimes of great duration ; long and varied after-actions , some tonus-like and others rhythmically clonic , others in the nature of rebounds ; mutual relations of great diversity between the reactions of the muscle-pair during actual stimulation ; all these , along with other characters in the records not easily dealt with in a short communication , impress upon the observer the high complexity of the cortical as compared with decerebrate or purely spinal reactions .
A phenomenon of outstanding prominence in the results has been that of 2912 .
] Instability of Cortical .
277 inhibition .
In our records it appears more prominent than excitation itself .
Often it manifests itself along with excitation as a reciprocal effect , also , however , it occurs without obvious concomitant excitation of the antagonistic muscle , and , so far as our experience at present goes , more often than does the contrary phenomenon\#151 ; namely , excitatory contraction without concomitant inhibitory relaxation of the opponent .
This feature of the records inclines us to suppose that the inhibitory and excitatory effects respectively\#151 ; although with great frequency reciprocally yoked together under cortical stimulation\#151 ; are , as cortical reactions , nevertheless , to a considerable extent independently exhibitable .
In regard to this , however , it has , of course , to be remembered that our observations have of necessity been confined to a particular muscle-pair as a sample of the whole limb musculature .
Were it possible to survey contemporaneously more of the several muscles of the limb , the wider field of observations might possibly reveal closer concomitance between the two effects .
In some cases the records exhibit concomitant increase of contraction in both of the component muscles ; in such cases it may well be that double reciprocal innervation is at work\#151 ; as has been pointed out , that phenomenon may quite reasonably be expected as a reaction from a cortical point .
But it must be admitted that as yet no experimental proof has been given that it actually is so .
In directing attention to the frequency of temporary changes in the effect exerted by a cortical point upon an antagonistic muscle-pair , and in showing that these changes not rarely reach actual reversal of the sense of the movement , we would not be understood as impugning the general regularity of the results which such cortical points yield when appropriately examined .
The same cortical point , returned to after a period of quiescence , will usually , time after time , yield approximately the same result on the muscle-pair with considerable consistency .
What we desire to stress in regard to the reaction of the cortical point on the antagonistic muscle-pair is the influence of shortly pre-current excitations , both of itself and of other points , and of afferent channels .
And in this respect the functional instability of some cortical points seems to be greater than that of others .
The instability is great enough to be easily demonstrable under narcosis as in our experiments .
It may well be even greater in normal conditions without narcosis .
Indeed , the frequence of reversal as a phenomenon attaching to the reactions of points in the motor cortex suggests that one of the functions of the cortex may be performance of reversals , and that the greater predominance of reversal under cortical than in purely spinal or decerebrate reflexes is because reversal is one of the specific offices of the cortex cerebri .

