Analytical Experiments and Observations on Lac .
By Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read April 12 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 191 .
] A brief historical account of the substance here treated of is prefixed to this paper .
Though long in use , especially in India , yet , except what we have lately learnt from Mr. Kerr and Mr. Saunders , .
few inquiries have hitherto been made concerning its mode of production , first discovery , its nature and relative properties .
We now know that it is the nidus or comb of the insect called Coccus , or Chermes Lacca , deposited on branches of certain species of Mimosa and other plants ; and that the kingdom of Assam furnishes it in the greatest quantity .
There are four sorts of it:-1 .
The stick lac , being the substance or comb in its natural state , incrusting small branches or twigs .
2 .
Seed lac , or the same substance granulated , but probably prepared in some manner , it being deprived of a great part of its colouring matter .
3 .
Lump lac , formed from seed lac , liquefied by fire , and formed into cakes .
And , 4 .
Shell lac , being the original comb , liquefied in water , strained through a cotton cloth , and spread upon a junk of a plantain-tree so as to form thin transparent lamine : this kind contains the least of the tinging substance , as may w , ell be expected from the mode in which it is prepared .
Among the chemists who have hitherto analysed this substance , none deserve notice except M. Geoffroy ; but our author 's present labours render his investigations of little or no avail .
The first section of this paper treats of the effects of different menstrua on the varieties of lac , from which it appears that it is soluble in alkalies , and in some of the acicds .
And the second section contains an account of the analytical experiments made on stick , seed , and shell lac .
From the ample series of facts herein contained , of which it is in vain to attempt a compendious abstract , we collect in general that the varieties of lac consist of four ingredients , lamely , extractive colouring matter , resin , gluten , and a peculiar kind of wax ; and that the resin is the predominant ingredient , insomuch that , strictly speaking , we ought to consider lac as consisting principally of resin mixed with certain proportions of a particular kind of wax , gluten , and colouring extract .
The mean results of the experiinents give the proportions as follows:-100 parts of stick lac are found to contain resin 68 , colouring extract 10 , wax 6 , gluten 5I , and extraneous matter 6 ; -seed lac , resin 88I , colouring extract 2T , wax 42 , gluten 2 ; -and shell lac , resin 90 90 , colouring extract I , wax 4 , and gluten 2X80 .
Each of these ingredients , we must observe , has been separately and carefully analysed .
The third and last section contains a number of general observations , chiefly relating to the uses of this substance .
From the whole of the experiments here related , it appears that although lac be indisputably the production of insects , yet it possesses few of the characters of animal substances ; and that the greater part of its aggregate properties , as well as those of its component ingredients , are such as more immediately appertain to vegetable bodies .
Its uses are various , and some of them important .
The Indians manufacture it into rings , beads , and other female ornaments .
When formed into sealing-wax , it is employed as a japan , and is likewise manufactured into different coloured varnishes .
The colouring part is formed into lakes for painters ; and as a dyeing material it is in very general use .
The resinous part is employed to make grindstones , by melting and mixing it with about three parts of sand , or with a like proportion of powder of corundum for those stones which are used by lapidaries .
We owe to Mr. Wilkins the information , that a peculiar and excellent kind of ink is prepared by the Hindoos of shell lac , dissolved in water by the mere addition of a little borax , and by adding to the solution a certain quantity of ivoryor lamp-black .
This process has the further advantage of teaching us to prepare an aqueous solution of lac , which probably will be found of very extensive utility , especially in the preparation of varnishes and pigments , which , when perfectly dry , will not be easily affected by damp or water .
The opinion generally adopted by chemists , that acids and alkalies do not act upon resinous bodies , appears from this investigation to be altogether erroneous ; since the chief ingredient of lac which we have seen is soluble in those menstrua , .
is now determined to be of a resinous nature .
Some hints are lastly given concerning the further uses that may be made of these preparations in various manufactures , especially in dyeing , and the preparation of colours : nor is it thought unlikely that medicine may derive some advantages from the application of the extensive series of acid and alkaline solutions of resinous substances , which till now were thought to be unattainable .

