March 6th , 1845 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
" Essays on Hygrometry and Barometry .
" By Captain Shortrede , F.R.A.S. , First Assistant in the General Trigonometrical Survey of India .
Communicated by Lieut.-Col. W. H. Sykes , F.R.S. This paper commences with an account of the various investigations of the author on subjects relating to the elasticity of aqueous vapour at different temperatures and under different circumstances .
He first discusses the tables given by different experimentalists of the force of vapour at various temperatures , and endeavours to deduce an analytical formula giving the nearest approximation to the results recorded .
He then proceeds to the consideration of what he terms " the moist bulb problem , " or the point of ' maximum depression attained by a thermometer with a moistened bulb exposed to evaporation in air : he deduces formulae which he compares with the results of actual observation , and points out the probable sources of error in the cases in which he finds disagreements between them .
In the miscellaneous remarks which form the next section of the paper , the author states his reasons for dissenting altogether from the views taken by Dalton of the constitution of mixed gases , or of mixtures of aqueous vapour with any of the gases , according to which , each gaseous body is uniformly diffused throughout the whole space , its particles repelling those of its own kind , but exerting no pressure on the particles of any other kind .
He considers the fact that a given portion of air has its volume expanded by the addition of aqueous vapour , as being of itself a sufficient refutation of that theory .
The author then takes occasion to discuss the question , whether aqueous vapour exists in the atmosphere in the state of mechanical mixture or of chemical solution , and argues in favour of the latter view of the subject .
In the concluding section , the author enters at large into the investigation of the method of ascertaining heights by barometric observations , and gives various tables to be used for that purpose .

