Connection of Lake Tanganyika with the Sea .
451 -\gt ; r to disprove , and the Antarctic holds for us innumerable problems -which we can foresee neither statement nor solution , as well as :he solution of those that we can already in some measure foresee .
:{ On the Zoological Evidence for the Connection of Lake Tanganyika with the Sea .
" By J. E. S. Moore , A.R.C.S. Communicated by Professor Lankester , F.R.S. Received January 12 , \#151 ; Read January 27 , 1898 .
( From the Huxley Research Laboratory , Royal College of Science , London .
) Before 1896 , when 1 had the opportunity ot ?
studying the fauna of Lake Tanganyika on the spot , it was known that there existed in the so-called Sea of Ujiji , one animal , the affinities of which are undoubtedly marine .
This was the medusa , which Dr. Boehm saw as he crossed the lake in 1883 .
It was known further that the jelly-fish was associated in Tanganyika with a number of strange molluscan forms , for the empty shells of what appeared to be some six entirely new genera of gaster-opods , had been brought home by Captain Speak , Joseph Thomson , and Mr. Hore .
As the animals contained in these shells have not hitherto been known , their classification by the conchologists with existing fresh-water types has always appeared extremely doubtful , and from the first Mr. Edgar Smith , who described the greater number of these forms , has held the opinion that they might eventually ' turn out to have the same oceanic characters as the jelly-fish .
It wras therefore one of the objects of my recent expedition to obtain material for the complete determination of these molluscous types , and especially to ascertain if there were any other marine organisms in the lake .
The results of this attempt have been to show:\#151 ; I. That to the six genera of quasi-marine gasteropods , the shells of which were known , viz. , Typhobia , Nassopsis , Syrnolopsis , the so-called Lithoglyphus , and there are now to be added at least two , entirely new generic forms , for which I propose the names* Bathanaliaand Bytlioceras ( figs. 1 and 2 ) .
We have therefore now representing the quasi-marine molluscs of Tanganyika eight genera of gasteropods , and to these should probably be added among the Lamellibranchiata the so-called TJnio Burtoni and one of the Tanganyika Spathas.f * Diagnoses of these new genera will be found in papers now in the hands of the Editor of the ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. ' f Complete accounts of the anatomy of all these Halolimnic genera will shortly appear in the ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. ' 45 L Mr. J. E. S. Moore .
Zoological Evidence for the II .
That among the invertebrate population of Tanganyika there are a large number of widely separated animal types , all of which Fig. 1.\#151 ; Shell of Bythoceras iridescens obtained liying near Surnbu , Tanganyika at a depth of 680 ft. Fm .
2.\#151 ; Shell of Bathanalia Howesii , obtained near Mleroes , Tanganyika , at a depth of 950 ft. possess the same quasi-marine affinities .
Thus I found that among the Crustacea there are two forms of prawns and one deep-water crab .
Among the Hydrozoa the already known medusa Limnocnida .
Among Porifera one deep-water sponge ; and lastly there are several forms of Peridineaand Condylo stoma among the Protozoa .
A laigc proportion of these organisms are exceedingly peculiar ; but others such as the two prawns , the deep-water crabs and sponge , and pos- Connection of Lake Tanganivith the Sea .
453 ibly the pelagic Protozoa , are much more nearly related to the imilar marine organisms which have repeatedly contaminated the r\lt ; ?sh waters of the world elsewhere .
It should , however , he clearly mderstood that even these apparently more normal types have not jeen found in Nyassa , Shirwa , or Kela , nor have they been recorded rom any of the Great Lakes further north .
Therefore , although they ire less peculiar than their associates in Tanganyika , they probably selong to the same quasi-marine , or what I shall in future call the flalolimnic group .
The results of a systematic survey which was made of the geographical and bathymetric distribution of the aquatic molluscs throughout the wide aina over which the expedition had to pass have iemonstrated in the most conclusive manner the complete duality of the Tanganyika fauna as a whole.* In Nyassa , Shirwa , Kela , and several minor lakes , taken together , all of which I visited and dredged , there have been found the following molluscous types JJnio , Spatha , CorUcula , Iridina , , Isodora , , Planorbis , Ancylus , Amptdlaria , Lanistes , , , and Melania .
Not all of these fifteen genera which are now found living in Nyassa are present in the smaller lakes .
In the Shirwa they are reduced to five , and in Kela they are only three .
The full Nyassan series has , however , been recorded from the Victoria Nyanza , and in this more northern group of lakes there is again seen the curious reduction in the number of genera as we pass from the greater lakes to the less .
From these facts of distribution it is apparent that the genera of molluscs , which occur in the African fresh waters , are very constant over an immense area of ground .
There can indeed be little doubt that the genera found in Nyassa characterise and constitute , the type of the truly African fresh-water fauna as a whole .
The fauna of Tanganyika appears therefore to form a striking contrast to this rule of uniformity in type which characterises the fauna of all the other lakes .
Such divergence is , however , in one sense more illusory than real .
All the Nyassa or Victoria Nyanza genera are found living in Tanganyika , and the fauna of this lake does not differ from the faunas of the others in kind or as a whole .
It differs from them merely in there being here added to the normal series a number of molluscs which are not found elsewhere .
To this superadded list , however , there attaches a unique interest , as it is entirely composed of those ten genera of gasteropods and lamelli-branchs which were instanced as possessing the same marine appearance as the jelly-fish and prawns .
, The strange geographical isolation of the halolimnic molluscs which .* The full details of my observations on the distribution of the Ilalolimnic , molluscs are now in the hands of the Editor of the ' Quart .
Journ. Mini* .
Sci , ' 4d4 Mr. J. E. S. Moore .
Zoological Evidence fov the these facts disclose is also true and characteristic of all the other halolimnic animals I have named .
It is thus rendered evident that the entire halolimnic fauna as it exists in Tanganyika now is something completely distinct from and superadded to the normal African lake fauna as a whole .
This fact is of the utmost import when we attempt to ascertain from what source the halolimnic animals have sprung .
The isolation of these animals shows conclusively that they cannot have arisen , so to speak , de novo in Tanganyika through the effect of the conditions under which they live , for*if this were so there would have arisen similar halolimnic animals under the apparently similar conditions which exist elsewhere .
For the same reason they cannot be regarded as the surviving representatives of an older fresh-water stock , since were this the case we should have to believe that this old stock had been destroyed in every African lake but one .
Nyassa , moreover , appears to have been a fresh-water lake longer than Tanganyika , yet in the Post-pleistocene deposits which occur along its shores no halolimnic fossils have been found .
Now it is perhaps conceivable that prawns , which are active vigorous organisms , could by great exertions have made their way up the numerous falls along the single effluent of Tanganyika from the sea in recent times , for they have certainly thus entered many lakes already known .
But with respect to the remaining halolimnic organisms , there is a singular feature common to them all which effectually precludes any possibility of this .
All these animals are incapable of being directly associated with any living oceanic species .
This fact alone demonstrates conclusively that the halolimnic fauna , wherever it came from , must be old .
It has either had time to modify into its present condition from forms which are already known , or , what is more probable , it has more or less adhered to the characters of the older types from Avhich it sprang .
Delicate organisms , such as the Medusa , could not have found their way up the effluent as it now exists : it is barely conceivable that they can have been carried overland , while it is altogether out of the question to suppose that either of these processes could account for the presence of the halolimnic molluscs in the lake , as these are almost exclusively deep water forms .
The genus Typliobia and the genus Bathanalia are generally beyond the hundred fathom line .
Limnotrochus and are never found in less than 200 feet , and they occur up to 700 feet .
The morphology of these molluscs is therefore of the first importance in determining the nature of the halolimnic group , for if the affinities of these organisms have been misinterpreted , and if in reality it can be shown that they have been derived from ancient oceanic types , they must have made their way into Tanganyika from the sea under widely different conditions from those which now exist ; in fact , the Connection of Lake Tanga with the Sea .
455 proof of their oceanic character will more or less necessitate the idea that the Tanganyika region of to-day must have approximated in character to an arm of the deep and open sea in ancient times .
During my late expedition I was able to obtain sufficient material for the complete morphological investigation of all the halolimnic molluscs , the shells only of which have hitherto been known , as well as for the two new genera Bathanalia and Bathoceras represented in gs .
X and 2 , and as X have worked over in detail a considerable number of these forms I am now in a position to state definitely what they really are .
In X857 S. P. Woodward , when describing the shells of the so-called Lithoglyphus of Tanganyika , which had been obtained by Speak , observed " the univalve ... .
so much resembles a Nevita or Calyptvcea that it would be taken for a sea shell if its history were not so well authenticated , " and similar reflections were made by other observers when describing the shells more recently obtained by Captain Hore .
But possibly owing to the weight then attached to Murchison s geological speculations respecting the African interior , undoubtedly to the fact that the Tanganyika jelly-fish was not then known , and also because the fresh-water habitat of these molluscs was indisputable , the idea of their marine origin which was thus distinctly before the minds of older zoologists subsequently became entirely obscured .
The shell of Typhobia was hesitatingly classed by Smith in 1881 , and more definitely by Fischer in 1887 , with the Melanidee* as a subsection of that group .
The shells of the Para-melanias were regarded as nearly related to the same , while the really unique so-called Lithoglyphus of Tanganyika was equally misplaced .
The mere fact of the jelly-fish being , as I ascertained , associated with other marine organisms in Tanganyika would throw suspicion on these purely conchological determinations , and the actual anatomical character of the halolimnic molluscs entirely confirms this view .
The Typhobias are utterly unlike any Melania the anatomy of which is known .
These gasteropoda in the character of their radulse and their alimentary canals , in the presence of a crystalline style and an anterior stomachic ccecuru , in the possession of a well-developed posterior and anterior syphon , in the form of the gills and osphradium , in the position of the anal , genital , and renal apertures , as well as in the gross details of their reproductive apparatus , most closely approximate to Strombus and Pteroceras .
The same inference may be gathered from the longi-commissurate characterof the nervous system , while in the absenceof arightpallial anastomosis , as well as in the form of the subintestinal ganglionic * In 1881 Smith became acquainted with the operculum of Typhobia , which seemed to confirm this opinion , but it is evident he doubted its correctness from statements on the same page .
( ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , 1881 , p. 298 .
) VOL. LX1I .
456 Mr. J. E. S. Moore .
Zoological Evidence for the trank , the Typhobias undoubtedly approximate to the Solaridee anc possibly to the Scalarids .
In fact , the structural tout ensemble of tht Typbobias leaves little room for question that these gasteropods mus be regarded as forms closely similar to a Pteroceras with a non specialised foot .
What is true of the Typhobias is also true of the allied genus Bathanalia , except that this form is in some respects more primitive , and is certainly less specialised in its shell .
The so-called Lithoglyphus zonatus , L. neritinoides , and L. rufofilosus are seen al once , when anatomically examined , to have been perhaps even mort completely misplaced than the Typhobias .
In the characters of theii radulse and alimentary canals they approximate to the Planaxidce* while in the possession of an anterior stomachic ccecum and style , they show undoubted affinity to some members of the Strombidse .
In the character of their nervous system they are undoubtedly akin to the marine Zygoneurous Cerithia on the one hand and the longi-commis-surate Struthiolariidce on the other .
But the most remarkable anatomical feature which these forms possess is the existence in the female of an enormous epidermal invagination of the body wall beneath the eye ( fig. 3 ) , into which the embryos descend from the female genital aperture along a deep groove , and I have now complete evidence for regarding this groove , which is present in both sexes as truly homologous with the similar genital grooves possessed by the OpisthobrancJis .
The affinities of the new genera Bythoceras , Baramelania , and Nassop are much more difficult to determine , but there is no doubt that in the curious condition of their nerves and in the general features of their anatomy they are extremely primitive .
The whole nervous system of these forms , in the forwardly elongated character of the pedal ganglia and in the relation and characters of the cerebral and pleural ganglia and their connectives , actually approximate to that of a Oyclophorus .
In other respects it resembles that of Triton .
Lastly , the one entire Bimnotrochus which I possess seems to be nearly akin to the Paramelanian group , but the anatomy of this form will require more fully working out by sections than has yet been done .
Thus , although I am not yet able to give a complete statement of the character of all the halolimnic molluscs known , enough anatomical work has now been done for this preliminary communication to indicate clearly what will be the entire result of the investigation .
It has been seen that the theory of the marine origin of the * It is remarkable that representatives of this family abound in the Indian Ocean and on the East African coast , the so-called of Tanganyika affording one among many instances of similarity between the molluscan fauna of Tanganyika and that of the Indian Ocean .
Connection of Lake Tanganyika with the Sea .
Fia .
3 .
\#151 ; Semidiagrammatic representation of the reproductive apparatus in the female of the so-called Lithoglyphus rufofilosus .
OV , Female genital gland .
FA , Opening of oviduct .
G-R , Genital groove .
K , Opening of brood pouch .
S , Ova contained in brood pouch .
( E , ( Esophagus .
halolimnic fauna of Lake Tanganyika is entirely supported both by the facts of distribution and by those of the morphology of the individual halolimnic forms .
Like the medusa , the halolimnic gasteropods combine the characters of several modern marine types , and so they cannot by any possibility be regarded as the forerunners of the modern fresh-water stocks.^ Consequently , the only way in which their existence in Tanganyika can be accounted for is through the supposition that this region was , as Thomson supposed , at some time in open connexion either on the east , west , or north , with a deep arm of the sea .
Such a conception is , however , in the^ most uncompromising conflict with the views respecting the permanence of the African terrestrial conditions which were advanced by Sir Roderic Murchison in 1852 , f and which have been more recently and so ably advocated by Dr. Gregory in 1896.* Nevertheless , the theory of the marine * It is certain from their anatomical characters that some of the halolimnic molluscs ( the Typhobias ) originated from marine ancestors later than Cretaceous times , for they possess the characters of genera such as Strombus and Pteroceras , i.e. , genera that are Post-cretaceous and marine .
Of the latter of these genera M. Fischer indeed remarks : 44 L'existence de ce genre h l'etat fossile parait douteuse " ( 4 Manuel de Conchyliologie et Paleontologie Conchyliologique , p. 671 ) .
t 4 Roy .
Geogr .
Soc. Journ./ vol. 24 , 1864 , pp. clxxv\#151 ; clxxviii .
t In his work , 4 The Great Rift Valley , ' p. 214 , Gregory restates the geological position as follows :\#151 ; " That part of Murchison 's theory , which affirms that Central Africa has never been below the level of the sea , is still in harmony with the known facts , for no deposits of marine origin have as yet been found in the .
interior .
" 458 Connection of Lake Tanganyika the Sea .
origin of the halolimnic fauna is now supported by an accumulating mass of the strongest kind of zoological evidence it is possible to obtain , while the above geological speculations to which it is diametrically opposed are based at best merely on the continued absence of all definite information respecting the past geological history of the " far interior " of any sort or kind .

