1886 .
] Early Development of Julus terrestris .
73 Table VIII .
( Special Data .
) Number of cases in which the Stature of individual Brothers was found to deviate to various amounts from the Mean Stature of their respective families .
Number of brothers in each family 4 5 | 6 7 Number of families 39 23 8 6 Number Number Number Number Amount of deviation .
of cases .
of cases .
of cases .
of cases .
Under 1 inch 88 62 20 21 1 and under 2 49 30 18 14 2 and under 3 15 17 5 6 3 and under 4 4 3 3 1 4 and above . .
3 2 . .
II .
" The Early Development of Julus By F. G. Heathcote , M.A. , Trim Coll. Cam .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received January 6 , 1886 .
The following are the principal results of my investigations on the early development of Julus terrestris since June , 1882 .
When laid the eggs are oval in shape , white , and covered with a thick chitinous chorion .
The nucleus is situated in a mass of protoplasm in the centre of the ovum .
This mass of protoplasm is of irregular shape , but its long axis corresponds with that of the ovum .
Prom it , anastomosing processes radiate in all directions , forming a network throughout the egg .
The yolk-spherules are contained within the meshes of this network .
The nucleus is not a distinct vesicle but its position is marked by chromatin granules .
There is no nucleolus .
Early on the second day the nucleus and the central mass of protoplasm apparently divide into two parts .
But this division is not complete , the two resulting masses with their nuclei remaining connected by a network of protoplasm .
Each of these divides in the same incomplete manner , so that we now have four segments all connected together .
This process is continued until there are a considerable number of segmentation masses present , and early on the * Mr. J. D. Gibson Carmichael , F.L.S. , lias kindly identified the species for me as Julus terrestris , Leach , 1814 .
Mr. F. G. Heathcote .
[ Jan. 21 , third day the first formation of the blastoderm begins .
Early on the third day some of the segmentation masses make their appearance on the outside of the ovum at different parts , and there undergo rapid division , the resulting cells spreading out to form the blastoderm .
At the close of the blastoderm formation , the ovum consists of an external layer of flat cells\#151 ; the epiblaast\#151 ; with deeply stained oval nuclei , these cells being continuous on the one hand with one another , and on the other with the cells in the yolk by means of fine processes of protoplasm .
The cells in the interior of the yolk are the direct descendants of the first segmentation masses .
They constitute the hypoblast .
The fate of these hypoblast cells is various ; some of them are employed in the formation of the mesoblastic keel which I am about to describe , that is , in the formation of the splanchnic and somatic mesoblast .
Another part gives rise to the hypoblastic lining of the mesenteron , while a third part remains in the yolk after the mesenteron is formed , and gives rise to mesoblast cells which are employed in the formation of various muscles and of the circulatory system .
With regard to the retention of the primitive connexion of the cells of the ovum until this stage , nothing of the sort has , I believe , been described before except by Sedgwick in Peripatus .
The most important part it seems to me is not the connexion of cell to cell but of layer to layer by means of processes of the cells .
About the middle of the fourth day several of the hypoblast cells approach the epiblast in the middle line of what will eventually be the ventral surface of the embryo .
This is the first beginning of a mesoblastic keel such as Balfour has described for Agelena labyrinthica .
When a fair number of these cells are assembled in the middle line of the ventral surface a change takes place in the cells of the epiblast just outside them .
They become more rounded , their nuclei become round ; in fact they come to resemble the cells which I have described as assembling immediately below them .
The epiblast cells in the middle ventral line after altering their shape increase by division and take a considerable share in the formation of the keel .
The hypoblast cells below them also increase , and on the fifth day the mesoblastic keel is complete .
Both epiblast and hypoblast have taken part in the formation of this keel .
At the end of the sixth day the keel is still present , but the cells of which it is composed are becoming elongate^ , in the direction parallel to the surface .
At the same time they continue to multiply and spread themselves out so as to form two definite layers within the epiblast .
These are the splanchnic and somatic layers of the mesoblast .
The cells of the splanchnic and somatic mesoblast are connected .
1886 .
] Early Development of Julus terrestris .
75 On the seventh and eighth days the keel gradually disappears , and the layers of mesoblast spread round a great part of the embryo , rather more than half way round .
On the ventral surface the epiblast cells assume a columnar form , thus giving rise to the ventral plate .
The mesoblast now becomes thicker on each side of the middle ventral line .
Both layers are concerned in this thickening , and at these points the two layers become indistinguishable .
Outside the thickenings , that is further away from the middle ventral line , the two layers are closely applied to each other , and to the epiblast as before .
The effect of these changes is that the greater part of the mesoblast is now arranged in two parallel longitudinal bands along the ventral surface of the embryo ; these bands being connected across the middle line by a thin portion consisting of a single layer .
The two longitudinal bands now begin to be constricted off into the mesoblastic somites .
The latter are formed from before backwards , and their position corresponds with that of the future segments of the body .
The number of the somites is eight , corresponding with that of the eight segments with which the embryo is finally hatched .
The somites are at first solid , afterwards a cavity appears in them .
Early on the ninth day the stomodseum is formed as an invagination of the epiblast near one end of the ventral surface .
Shortly after the first formation of the stomodseum , the proctodseum appears as a shallow somewhat wide invagination of the other end of the ventral surface .
The body-segments already established by the segmentation of the mesoblast now become more apparent , each being marked by a deep transverse furrow in the epiblast .
The hypoblast cells are still present within the yolk , but are gradually becoming collected in the median line , just below the mesoblastic bands .
The stomodseum and proctodseum become more deeply invaginated , extending a considerable distance into the yolk , and at the same time the hypoblast cells begin to form the mesenteron , arranging themselves around a central lumen .
On the tenth day the ventral flexure is formed by a deepening of the transverse furrow between the seventh and eighth segments .
It is , therefore , first formed nearer the anal end of the embryo .
As the furrow deepens and the embryo increases in size , the last segment grows in length .
At the same time the embryo curves round towards the ventral surface .
The effect of this is that the end segment is bent round against the head .
The eighth segment is considerably longer than the others except the head , and the tissues there show a considerable difference .
Even as late as the twelfth day , when the nervous system is far developed in all other parts of the body , in the eighth segment the tissues are imperfectly differentiated , the nerve 76 Early Development of Julus terrestris .
[ Jan. 21 , cords not showing any ganglia , but lying on the epiblast and not quite separated from it .
At a later period of development the anal segment is constricted off from this segment , while from its anterior part the future segments formed in the course of development are developed .
Just before the appearance of the ventral flexure the embryo develops a cuticular envelope over the whole surface of the body .
This is the so-called amnion of Newport .
Just before the formation of the ventral flexure the nervous system is formed .
The first traces of this consist in a thickening of the epiblast on each side of the middle line .
This is soon followed by the formation of a shallow furrow between the thickened parts ; this longitudinal furrow corresponds with that described by Metschnikoff in Strongylosoma .
The bilobed cerebral ganglia are formed first , and the nerve cords are formed from before backwards , a pair of ganglia being present for \#166 ; each segment except the last .
The posterior portion of the nerve cords is completed at a considerably later stage of development .
The nerve cords are widely separated , but are connected by a thin median portion .
In later embryonic life they are closely approached to one another , and almost form one cord .
On the eleventh day the embryo has increased considerably in size .
The ventral flexure is complete , and the animal lies with the long end segment folded closely against the rest of the body , the end of the tail being against the stomodseum .
The nervous system is now completely separated from the epiblast , and the epiblast has .assumed the adult form .
It now separates a second membrane like that which is formed on the tenth day .
The splanchnic layer of mesoblast covers the mesenteron , the stomodaeum , and proctodseum .
Within the yolk , which is still present in great quantity in the body cavity , there are present a number of hypoblast cells .
These , as have already been mentioned , give rise to the circulatory system and to various muscles .
They may , therefore , be now considered as mesoblastic cells which have been directly derived from the hypoblast .
On the twelfth day the Malpighian tubes are formed as blind outgrowths of the proctodeeum , the nervous system is further developed , and the first rudiments of the appendages begin to appear .
Late on this day the animal is hatched with only the rudiments of its appendages .
I propose to reserve a full description of this stage for a future paper .

