]\gt ; The orbhoptic locus of a and its isoptic loci are the loci of the points of concourse of pairs of tallgents drawn to it at right angles , and at angles equal to given , respectively .
As a step towards a general theory of such loci , of which special cases only have been treated hitherto , it is shown below that the order of the orthoptic locus of a curve of class is , and the order of its isoptic loci .
The principle on which our proof depends is that lines drawn from either of the circular points at I and muy be arded as intersecting at any angle whatsoever , such as are drawn from any other point at infinity , real or inary , can only be regarded as , unless one of them be the straight line at infinity , which makes an indeterminate angle with any straight line .
1 .
The Orthyptic Locus of a Curve of any Ctass .
To a curve of the class tanoents , constituting quasiorthogonal pairs , can be drawn from I or J. Each of these is therefore a puint of the order on the orthoptic locus , and this locus , having in general no other points at infinity , is of the order .
If the curve touches the line IJ in one point , other tangents can in be drawn to it any point on , and each of them be regarded as orthogonal to IJ .
Every point at infinity is therefore of the order on the orthoptic locus , and the remainder of the locus when the factor is subtracted is of the order , that is to say , and contains I and as poiuts of the order , or .
If the curve touches IJ in points it appears in like manner that the orthoptic locus contains IJ as a ctor r times , and the lemainder of the locus is therefore of the order ) , and contains I and as points of the order , or .
* To demonstrate the existerlce of the circular points , draw circle , and upon take an AB at random , and let be either of the points in which the cirole meets the at ity .
Any two straight through may be regarded as zero angles with and respectively , and therefore includiug an angle equal to that st:lnding on the arc AB , which may be of any mugnitude whatsoever .
It readily ] lows that all circles through , and that there can be on .
two points on thoe at infinify .
1884 .
] Theory of Orthoptic and lsoptic Loci .
139 Notice in verification the case of he conics ( de la Hire , 1685 ) , and likewise that of the cardioid , whose orthoptic locus consists of circle and a bicircular quartic , which together make up a tricircular sextic .
When the curve resolves itself into point-factors the orthoptic locus evidently consists of the circles described on the lines joining the points two and two as diameters .
2 .
of a Pair of Curves .
The locus of the vertex of a right whose arms envelope two curves of class and class respectively may be called the pedal of the two curves , or of the one with respect to the other , and the locus generated by the vertex of any other constant angle may be called a skew pedal of the two curves , or of the one with respect to the other .
The former locus becomes a pedal commonly so called when one of the curves degenerates into a poinb .
From the reasoning used above it is evident that the pedal of two such curves is an -circular 2mn-ic .
This may also be deduced from the formula for the orbhoptic locus as follows : The two curves make up a curve of class , whose orthoplic locus is the aggregate of the pedal and the olthoptic loci of the two curves .
The pedal is therefore of the order , that is to say , it is of the order , and it contains I and as points of the order mn .
3 .
Isoptic Loci and their .
Any two ) gents to a curve from I or may be regarded as intersecting at angles and or these reversed , and their point of thus belongs doubly to the corresponding isoptic locus .
The order of such loci is therefore of that of the orthoptic locus , and they pass twice as often through I and J. For example\mdash ; The ellipse , to which one pair of tangents only can be drawn from I or , may be regarded as subtending any angle or its supplement at those points .
These are therefore double points on the corresponding isoptic locus , which is accordingly a bicircular quartic .
( 2 .
) The parabola may be regarded as subtending any angle or its supplement at every point on the line at infinity .
Its isoptic loci therefore contain the factor , and the remainders , when this factor is rejected , are hyperbolas ( or ellipses ) .
( 3 .
) It may be deduced from the formula for isoptic loci , or proved directly by the method used above , that the ske pedals of a pair of curves of class and class ] are 2mn-circular , its isoptic loci .
In the case of the conics these are the only points in which such loci meet the curve .
If , therefore , be a conic , and its orthoptic loclls , the quarbics which are its isoptic loci will be represented by where is a constant which vanishes when the isoptic angle is zero , in which case the locus consists of the conic and the line at and is infinite when the angle is a angle , the isoptic being then the orthoptic locus .
Reciprocally , in a curve of the order , if a chord snbtends a constant angle a fixed point ifs envelope is of the class .
The various points in the theory of plane orthoptic and isoptic loci propounded in this note have been verified by analytical methods in an unpublished paper by Mr. J. S. , Fellow of St. John 's College .
The following notes on isoptic and othsr loci in space are taken from a valuable and suggestivs series of investigations by Mr. Joseph Larmor , Fellow of St. John 's College .
A solid has in general six degrees of freedom to move .
The corner of a cube whose three faces are constrained to touch a surface loses three and retains three , and the locus of a point rigidly connected with it is not a surface , but a solid bounded by a certain envelope .
When the cube-angle envelopes a quadric it can enjoy one of its degrees of freedom .
without displacement of its vertex , for if a cone of the second degree has one triad of orthogonal tangent planes , it has a * It is sometimes said that such lines are at right angles to themselves ; but this statement , although true so far as it goes , is inadequate .
The angle between lines parallel to and is , and when , it is , the numerator as well lls the denominator vanishing .
1884 .
] Mr. P. Jablochkoff .
On a oltaic Battery .
1 oingIy infinite number : consequently the locus of the vertex contracts in this case into a tlrface , the orthoptic sphere .
locus of the vertex of a trihedral anglo which envelopes a quadric is in general the space bounded by two surfaces .
Next consider a complex of lines of the order ; those of its lines which pass through a specified point form a cone of the order ; this cons can be circumscribed by a cube-angle provided the point lies within a certain solid space .
When the complex is of the econd order the solid locus degenerates into a surface , which is a quartic passing through the imaginary circle at infinity ; and when the complex is composed of the tangent lines of surface of the second order the locus is made up of the surface and its orthoptic sphere .
SimiIar considerations hold for the locus of the point of concourse of a triad of tangent lines at right angles .
complex is of the second order the locus degenerates into a quadric .
Mr. Larmor has briefly the problem of a surface coustrained to touch three surfaces , deducing as a special case the locus of the vertex of a cube-angle faces touch a quadric or three confocal quadrics is a sphere .
IX .
" " On a New Form of Voltaic Battery By PAUL JABLOCHKOFF .
Communicated by WARREN DE LA RUE , M.A. , D.C.L. , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received May 12 , The battery which I have the honour to .
under the notice of the Royal Society is one of high electromotive force , namely , about two and three quarter volts , and a single cell consequently decomposes water ; it is very light and portable , and convenient for many The electro-positive element is sodium , the electro-negative element is either cal'bon , spongy platinum , copper , or other metallic gauze ; no iluid is nsed in which to immerse the plates , but the eric .
air which always impregnated with more or less hygrometric moisture serves to set up the action of the battery by up sufficienb moisture to wet the surface of the sodinm , so that a thin film of fluid ( a solution of soda ) , is thus interposed veen the sodium and electro-negative element , and the internal resistance is very small in consequence of the thinness of the film of fluid .
The sodium is used in the form of plates , conveniently about a qual.ter of an inch thick , and the plates of carbon , of which one is placed on each side of the sodium , a little longer and about the sftme thickness as the ; these plates , carbon , sodium , carbon , are kept together by means of vulcanised rubber bands , and suspcnded vertically , a vessel being placed underneath to receive soda solution as it forms .

