VII .
" On the Distorted Skulls found at Wroxeter ( Salop ) , with a Mechanico-Chemical Explanation of the Distortion .
" By HENRY JOHNSON , M.D. , Shrewsbury .
Communicated by ERASMUS WILSON , Esq. Received June 19 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) The author states that about twenty crania were brought from the excavations at Wroxeter .
Of these , two were discovered at the bottom of a hypocaust , seven feet below the surface of the earth .
Of the remaining nineteen , which were dug up in the Orchard some distance from the other excavation , nearly one-half , that is nine , were more or less deformed .
As the deformed skulls were found lying under less than two feet of light earth , whilst those which were buried under , and pressed by , seven feet of rubble or heavy earth were not deformed , he thinks that the pressure theory alone will not satisfactorily account for the phenomena .
The idea occurred to him that some chemical agency was at work in the former case which did not operate in the latter .
Ile ascertained by experiment that the soil of the Orchard was acid , reddening litmus , whilst that of the hypocausts was neutral or alkaline .
The author goes on to show that the acidity of the soil of the Orchard , and of vegetable mould in general , is due to the presence of free carbonic and nitric acids , which are not to be detected in earth taken from some depth , such as that of the hypocaust or a deep pit .
That carbonic acid is capable of dissolving bone ( that is , carbonate and phosphate of lime ) is abundantly proved by more than one experiment .
A dried and weighed slip of bone was introduced into a bottle with distilled water highly charged with carbonic acid gas .
In a month 's time it had decidedly lost weight and become somewhatflexible .
The author 's first impression was that humic acid was the solvent of bone in the earth .
He believes that traces of alkaline humates may always be discovered in " the washings " of soil , but that this fact has nothing to do with the solution of buried bones , and therefore he does not pursue the subject .
The author draws , therefore , the following conclusions:1 .
That the distortion of the skulls found at Wroxeter is not congenital , but posthumouts .
2 .
That pressure alone is not the cause of the deformity .
3 .
That besides the softening effect of continuous moisture acting for ages upon the cartilaginous or animal matter of the bones , there is proof of the presence of free carbonic and nitric acids very generally in soils , and more particularly in black mould , such as that of the Orchard at Wroxeter .
4 .
Nitric acid may also be discovered in small quantity .
But carbonic acid is almost always present in soil where air and moisture come in contact with organic matters in a state of decomposition .
He thinks that this is the principal cause of the solution of bone in the earth , rendering it softer , and more ready to bend or break .
5 .
That the distortion must occur at a comparatively early period after interment , because when all , or nearly all , the animal matter of the bones is destroyed , they cannot bend .
Lastly .
That some of the apparently bent bones are really broken ; Professor Wyville Thomson , of Belfast , having first pointed out to the author minute cracks or fissures in some of the distorted crania .

