X. " On a Group of Varieties of the Muscles of the Human Neck , Shoulder , and Chest , with their transitional Forms and T-Iooologies in the Mammalia .
" By JOHN WOOD , F.R.C.S. , Examiner in Anatomy at the University of London .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received June 17 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) THE muscular varieties described by the author in his paper comprise the occipito-scapular , the levator claviculce , and the cleido-occipital , among the muscles which elevate the scapulo-clavicular bone-arch ; the sterno-scapular , the sterno-clavicular , and the scapulo-clavicular , of those which depress it ; and the supracostal , placed upon the upper part of the thorax .
The human occipito-scapular was first observed and described by him in the Proceedings of the Royal Society in 1867 .
Since that time various developments of muscular slips connected with the splenii , levator anguli scapule , and serrati have been observed , and are described and figured as a series of varieties transitional from the occipito-scapular behind to the levator claviculie in front of the neck .
The homology of the occipitoscapular with the levator scapulce minor vel posterior of Douglass , the rhomboideus capitis , rhomboide anterieur of Meckel , and the rhomboFde de la tgte of Cuvier , is traced in the different orders of the Mammalia , from direct observation , in the following animals , viz. the Bonnet-Monkey , the Hedgehog , Mole , Dog , Cat , Badger , Weasel , Rabbit , Guineapig , Norway Rat , and Squirrel , of which drawings from dissections accompanied the paper ; and also from various authorities in reference to a considerable number of other animals .
The levator claviculce he described in reference to its animal homologies in his paper read before the Royal Society in 1864 ; he has found it in 6 out of 202 subjects .
In the present paper the author gives an abstract of the observations of the older and modern anatomists referring to this muscle in the human subject under various names , and enters at length into its homologies in the Mammalia , as described by writers under its synonyms , the levator scapuce major vel anterior ( Douglass ) , omoou acromio-trachdeien ( Cuvier and Meckel ) , acromio-basilar ( Vicq d'Azyr ) , basio-humeralis ( Krause ) , Kopf-Arm-Muskel ( Peyer ) , claviotrace'lien ( Church ) , transverso-scapulaire ( Strauss-Diirckheim ) , omoatlanticus ( Haughton ) , and cervico-humeral ( Humphry ) , -illustrating them by drawings from his own dissections .
He enters more fully into the discussion of the apparently anomalous composition of the muscle in the Rabbit , gives reasons and comparative illustrations from the Fallowdeer and Ass for considering the seeming doubling of the muscle to result from a peculiar development of the cleido-mastoid in apparent conjunction with it , and considers that the muscle which has gone under the last name in the Rabbit to be really a development of the cleido-occipital .
The cleido-occipital he described in his paper published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society in June 1866 ; and he has found it since that time in 37 out of 102 subjects .
In the present paper he quotes briefly the various anatomists who have described it as part of the sterno-cleido-mastoid or trapezius , and connects it homologically with the muscles which have been described in the claviculate mammalia as a second cleido-mastoid , and in the semiclaviculate as the trapezius clavicularis ( " portion cervicale " ) of that muscle , giving illustrations of its gradual or transitional forms of development from specimens that have come under his own observation , or which have been gathered from the writings of others , as far as to the formation of the compound cepialo-humeral or levator humeri muscle of the Rodents and Carnivora .
The sterno-scapular muscle was first described as a variety in the human subject by the author in his paper published in the 'Proceedings ' in 1865 ; it had been previously described by various anatomists and by himself as a double subclavius , with an insertion into the scapula .
In the present paper he briefly quotes these authorities , and shows the various developments of the muscle in animals .
In connexion with it he describes a scapuloclavicular variety ( first observed by him as a human variety in 1865 ) , and compares it with the human abnormalities described by authors as varieties of the omo-hyoid .
It is described by Cuvier as the " scapulo-clavien " in the Rat-mole of the Cape and in the Didelphis marsupialis , and has been found by the author in the Rabbit , Guineapig , Squirrel , and Norway Rat .
He also describes the specimens he has found of the sternoeclavicular muscle , mentions the observers who have before seen it and recognized its homologies , and gives illustrations of its formation in the Rabbit , Guineapig , and other animals .
The supra-costal muscle was first discovered and described and figured 2 [ June 17 , by the author in his paper published in the ' Proceedings ' in 1865 , and was again noted and recorded by him in 1867 ; it has also been observed in the human subject by Professor Turner and others , and is considered by the former to be the representative of the rectus thoracicus of animals The author , however , is of opinion that the muscle figured by Cuvier as the sterno-costal in animals is a better fitting homology , and gives in this paper illustrations from his own dissections in animals in support of this view .

