A paper was also read , entitled s Clontributions to the Chemistry of the Urine.-Paper IV .
On so-called Chylous Urine .
" By H. Bence Jones , M[.D .
, A.M. , F.L.S. &amp;c. The definition given of chylous urine is , that it is urine which is white from the suspension of fatty matter in it .
An opportunity of observing a case of this disease having occurred to the author , he w'as led to make the experiments described in this paper .
A harnessmaker , age 32 , half-caste , who had lived in London for twelve years , had been passing such water for nine months .
On examination of the water made at 2 P.M. it solidified , looking like blanc-mange in ten minutes .
It was very feebly acid , contained fibrin , albumen , blood-globules and fat ; specific gravity=1015 .
1000 grs. of this urine gave44'42 grs. total solid residue &lt; , 8-01 grs. total ash .
11-03 grs. albumen .
8'37 grs. fat .
13'26 grs. urea and extractive matter . ?
75 gr. loss .
955'58 grs. water .
In order to watch the variations produced by food and exercise in the appearance of the urine , every time the urine was made , for five days and nights it was passed into bottles marked with the hour .
From these observations , and more particularly from the third , fourth , and sixth days , it was evident that the fibrin and albumen appear in the urine when no fat is there , and that the albuminous urine occurs before food has been taken , and disappears during the night with perfect rest .
Thus the fourth day , at 7h 15m A , M. , on first getting up the urine contained the slightest trace of albumen .
The specific gravity=1027 ; the precipitate by alcohol=0 ?
8 gr..per 1000 grs. urine .
At 9A 50m A.M. , just befqbre breakiast , the urine formed a solid coagulum free from fatty matter , but contained a visible deposit of blood .
Specific gravity= 0150 6 ; .
the precipitate by alcohol=14'l1 grs. per 1000 grs. of urine .
At 11 A.M. , the urine was chylous or white from fatty matter .
Further experiments on the influence of rest and motion in lessening or increasing the albumen in the urine previous to food are then given .
On five different mornings , by rising early or late , and by collecting the precipitate from the urine by alcohol , the influence of rest and motion was determined .
The author states that he could fix beforehand whether the urine should be albuminous or not , by directing the patient to get up , or to lie still .
The patient was bled and the serum was opalescent , but did not clear with sether : the blood contained no excess of fat .
1000 parts of blood gave2663 grs. fibrin .
159'3 grs. blood-globules .
78'1 grs. solids of serum .
240'03 grs. total residue .
759'97 grs. water .
The urine made the same day was examined at different hours ; that made immediately before the bleeding was quite wshite , and that made an hour and a half afterwards was very milky also .
Specific gravity = 1018 .
1000 grns .
of urine gave- , 56'87 grs. total residue .
10'80 grs. total ash .
13'95 grs. albumen .
7*46 grs. fht .
24'06 grs. urea , &amp;c. '60 gr. loss .
943'13 grs. water .
The conclusions froil these experiments are,1 .
That so-called chylous urine , besides fat , may cointain albumen , fibrin , and healthy blood-globules .
2 .
That , although the fat passes off in the urine after food is taken , yet the albumen , fibrin and blood-globules are thrown out before any food has been taken .
During perfect rest the albumen ceases to be excreted ; and it does not appear in quantity in the urine even after food is taken , provided there is perfect rest .
A short time after rising early the urine may coagulate spontaneously , although no fat is present ; and this may happen previous to food , when the urine is free from fat , S. Though the urine made just before and a short time after bleeding was as milky as it usually was at that hour of the day , yet S* the serum of the blood was not milky : it did not contain a larger quantity of fat than healthy blood does .
The general results are,1 .
That the most important changes in the urine in this disease take place independently of the influence of digestion .
2 .
That the urine in one respect only resembles chyle , and that is in containing , after digestion , a large quantity of fat in a very fine state of division .
The supposition that the disease consists in an accumulation of fat in the blood , which is thrown out by the kidneys , carrying with it albumen , fibrin , blood-globules and salts , is altogether disproved , both by actual analyses of the blood , and by the frequent occurrence of a jelly-like coagulum in the urine when no white fatty matter can be seen to be present .
3 .
The disease consists in some change in the kidney by which fibrin , albumen , blood.globules and salts are allowed to pass out , whenever the circulation through the kidney is increased ; and if at the same time fat is present in the blood , it escapes also into the urine .
That this change of structure is not visible to the naked eye on post-mortem examination , Dr. Prout long since demonstrated ; and in a case of this disease which was in St. George 's Hospital , and was examined at Plymouth , no disease of the kidney was observed .
From the total absence of fibrinous casts of the tubes from the urine , it is not improbable that by the microscope a difference may be detected in the structure of the mammary processes , rather than in that of the cortical part of the kidneys .

