470 ZOOLOGY OF RODRIGUEZ .
Reptiles.\#151 ; By Dr. Albert Numerous specimens of a Gecko , Beropus , were collected by Mr. Gulliver .
This small species is not only generally distributed in the Mascarene Islands , but occurs also in numerous islands of the East Indian Archipelago .
Mr. E. Newton has received quite recently a specimen of Bhelsuma cepedianum , which was caught by Mr. H. E. Desmarais on the 1st of July 1876 , in the jungle of Rodriguez .
This species is common in Madagascar and almost all the Mascarene Islands , but seems to be very scarce in Rodriguez .
Eishes.\#151 ; By Dr. Albert , A.\#151 ; Marine Species .
The marine fish fauna of Rodriguez does not differ in any respect from the wellknown fauna of Mauritius , the Seychelles , ( the naturalists of the Expedition being not to enumerate them in the following list:\#151 ; Holocentrum dicidem , Lacep .
" spinife , Eorsk .
Serranus hexagonatusEorst .
" flavoecerulens , Lacep .
Mesoprion fulviflamma , Eorsk .
Dules marginatus , 0 .
\amp ; V. Fentapus aurolineatus , Lacep .
Mulloides flavolineatus , Lacep .
Lethrinus mahsena , Eorsk .
" nebulosus , Eorsk .
Chrysophrys bifasciata , Eorsk .
Chcetodon setifer , Bl .
" lunula , Lacep .
, , vagabundus , L. , , lineolatus , C. \amp ; V. FLolacanthus alterna , C. \amp ; V. Deniochus monoceros , C. \amp ; V. Fsettus argenteus , L. Caranx crumenophthalmu , Bl .
" melampygus , C. V. Gobius albopunctatus , C. \amp ; V. r Zanzibar ; and the species collected by uncommon species , it will be sufficient Salarias quadricornis , 0 .
\amp ; V. Teuthis nebulosa , Q. \amp ; G. Naseusunicornis , Eorsk .
Acanthurus desjardinii , Benn .
" maioides ( ) , C , \amp ; V. " strigosus , Benn .
" triostegus , L. Atlierina pinguis , Lacep .
Fomacentrus trilineatus , 0 .
\amp ; V. Glypliidodon spar aides , 0 .
\amp ; V. " ccelestinus , 0 .
\amp ; V. Dascyllus aruanus , L. Chilinus punctatus , Benn .
Anampses diademaius , Rupp .
Pseudosearus harid , Eorsk .
Plotosus anguillaris , Bl .
Tetrodon nigropunctatus , Bl .
Batistes aculeatus , L. " rectangulus , Bl .
Ostracion cubicus , L. Diodon hystrix , L. FISHES.\#151 ; A. GtNTHER .
B. Freshwater Species .
Also the freshwater fishes ( which were collected by Mr. Gulliver ) are species well known to inhabit or to freely enter fresh waters of the Mascarenes and other parts of the western shores of the Indian Ocean .
Two Grey Mullets , however , differ sufficiently from those of the neighbouring islands to be entitled to specific distinction .
1 .
List o the Species .
Dtiles marginatus , C. \amp ; V. " rupestris , Lacep .
Chrysophrys sarba , Forsk .
JPsettus argenteus , L. Gobius albopunctcitus , C. V. " ocellar is , Brouss .
JEleotris monteiri , O'Shaughn .
Mugil rodericensis , sp. n. Myxus ccecutiens , sp. n. Megalops cyprinoideBrouss .
Chanos salmonoides , Bl .
Anguilla mauritiana , Benn .
" virescens , Ptrs .
2 .
Description o the Grey Mullets .
Mugil rodericensis .
Allied to M. troschelii , smithii and compr but with a narrower and longer caudal peduncle .
D. 4J , A. -J , L. lat. 30 .
L. transv .
11 .
The height of the body is a little more than the length of the head , and one fourth of the total ( without caudal ) ; the head is two-thirds as high as long ; the diameter of the eye is one-fourth of the length of the head , and contained once and three-fourths in the width of the interorbital space .
Eyelids not developed .
Upper profile of the head and nape nearly straight .
Prse orbital scaly , emarginate , and finely denticulated .
Snout a little shorter than the eye ; the maxillary extends beyond the prseorbital , and its extremity is uncovered ; upper lip thin .
There are twenty-one scales between the snout and the dorsal fin .
The least depth of the tail is less than one-half of the length of the head , and the caudal peduncle is considerably longer than deep .
The spinous dorsal is higher than the soft ; the spines are strong , the length of the first exceeding that of the postorbital portion of the head ; the base of the first spine a little nearer to the root of the caudal than to the end of the snout .
The soft dorsal and anal nearly entirely scaleless ; the anterior third of the anal in advance of the origin of the soft dorsal .
Caudal fin forked .
Pectoral shorter than the head .
Coloration uniform .
One specimen 10 inches long , and several young ones were collected by Mr. Gulliver .
Myxus coecutiens .
D. 4J- , A. f , L. lat. 43 .
L. transv .
14 .
Teeth very small , moveable , bent , those of the upper jaw in a single series ; a notch in the middle of the upper jaw to receive the mandibular symphysis .
Lower jaw with a similar series of horizontal teeth ; other smaller teeth behind appear to be destined to replace those in function .
Lower surface of the mandible without transverse folds .
Two round , hard , apparently toothless , naked patches on each side of the palate .
The maxillary does not quite extend to the front margin of the eye .
Snout obtuse , shorter than the eye , which is two-sevenths of the length of the head , and two-thirds of the width of the interorbital space .
Eye with a broad anterior and posterior adipose eyelid .
The depth of the body is nearly equal to the length of the head , which is two-seventlis of the total length ( without caudal ) .
Pectoral extending to the commencement of the spinous dorsal , which corresponds to the thirteenth scale of the lateral line .
Dorsal spine moderately strong , the length of the first being more than half the length of the head .
Caudal fin deeply emarginate .
Coloration uniform .
Two specimens , 5 inches long , were collected by Mr. Gulliver .

