340 Experiments with Rotating Liquid Films .
By C. Y. Boys , F.R.S. ( Received June 26 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) Plateau , in his great work ' Statique des Liquides , ' has given a very short description of an experiment by Eisenlohr , who enclosed in a vacuous globe of glass some soap solution .
On manipulating the globe he obtained films crossing the globe , and on rotating the globe he obtained coloured rings in the film .
So far as I can understand the very short description , the position of the film must have been a matter of chance , and consequently the curvature , so that to obtain a plane film by this method would have been a matter of chance , and obviously it would have been impossible to manipulate with the film itself .
Not knowing of this experiment , I desired last year to make some experiments with rotating films , and designed and constructed for the purpose the apparatus I am about to describe , and the phenomena obtained are so interesting and beautiful that I wish to present to the Royal Society a short but sufficient account of them .
I intend to make a more detailed explanation in the form of an additional chapter to my book on ' Soap Bubbles ' ( published by the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge ) .
I have made up the apparatus in many forms and sizes , but for observing the phenomena I have found that to be described the most suitable .
A cheaper form is being made and will shortly be available for general use .
Referring to the figure , which is a vertical section , a box of circular cross-section is mounted upon a tubular support into which a steel ball has been forced .
The whole runs on a steel upright fixed in a heavy tripod with three levelling screws .
A number of pulley grooves make it possible to turn the box at very different speeds by means of a string driven by a small motor , but the most convenient method of driving for ordinary observation is by rolling the hand or fingers over the tubular support , which is roughened to increase the friction .
A transparent conical cover of thin celluloid fits easily over the box .
A central binding screw made of brass is secured to the celluloid , and through the centre of this there is a small hole fitted with a conical stopper which can be removed or replaced while the box is spinning .
The in turned rim is drilled with a number of holes , so that when a film is stretched on the feather edge of the rim there is free air communication between the air in the two spaces above and below the film ; this is essential where it is desired to maintain the plane form of the film .
When the film is curved the Experiments with Rotating Liquid Films .
brilliance and beauty of the phenomena are not so marked .
The interior of the box is dead black .
The diameter of the film in the apparatus now described is 4 inches ( 10 cm .
) , but I have made them both much larger and much smaller .
The best liquid to use is a solution of pure oleate of soda in 40 times its weight of distilled water , with the addition after solution of 10 per cent , by volume of pure glycerine , but for special purposes either more or less glycerine , or even none at all , should be used .
I have used also melted resin , which works quite well if all is hot and the box is much smaller , but this is tiresome .
A solution of saponine in water is possible , but this , owing to the surface rigidity , is not desirable , though that property may be demonstrated with the apparatus if *a very small ring be used .
The easiest way to stretch a film is to dip a wiper of thin celluloid in the liquid and then to wipe this across the rim .
If the holes in the edge are wanted to be closed they will all be closed at the same time , each with its own film .
These can be broken instantly if they are wanted open .
In order to Mr. C. Y. Boys .
[ June 26 , see the phenomena best it is well to place the instrument in a window with an extensive sky area opposite and it is best not to be facing the sun .
The following experiments may be made with this apparatus , which are instructive or beautiful , and all are attractive :\#151 ; 1 .
Having a film stretched on the rim and the small holes open , turn the box without its cover .
The centrifugal force of the air causes the film to be drawn in and the relation between this force and the tension and curvature of the film may be determined .
2 .
If the holes are covered and the film is plane when starting , the mean pressure within remains the same as that of the atmosphere , but it is less near the centre and more near the edge , so that the film is concave near the centre and convex near the edge .
3 .
If a film is on the rim and the cover is in place and one or more of the small holes are open , then on starting the rotation the film rises until the pressure of the air below the film has fallen to that determined by the centrifugal force of the air at the edge of the cover .
Conversely , when the rotation is stopped or reduced , it falls .
The object of having so many holes is to make this process more rapid and to ensure working with a plane film .
4 .
If a film is on the rim and the cover is in place and the box is slowly turned , the film gradually takes up the rotation and under centrifugal force is both stretched and drained .
Soon a ring pattern is seen which develops gradually , and the lower order colours appear successively at the centre .
The elastic character of the film may be seen now , for if the rate of rotation is reduced , the rings become smaller .
If increased , they expand again .
With sufficient speed , the integrated centrifugal force may stretch the film with a force as much as about 20 per cent , more than its normal tension .
The surface tension then has a range over the proportion 5 to 6 .
About and within this range the film may be said to be elastic and not merely to exert a constant surface tension .
I have found about the same range by a statical experiment described on p. 108 of my book on ' Soap Bubbles , ' 1912 edition .
When this high tension is reached , the film rapidly thins in both experiments so as to prevent the force which the increased surface tension has to withstand from rising more .
The brilliance and beauty of the ring patterns exceed those of any phenomena with bubbles that I know .
When the colours of the first order are reached and the centre is straw colour or white , a central black spot will soon appear .
This grows very slowly under constant rotation , but if , when the black is seen , the rotation is stopped and the base is so placed that the film is not quite level , the black spot will trend upwards while the thicker parts will trend downwards , and if left long enough the well-known 1912 .
] Experiments with Rotating Liquid Films .
343 horizontal band pattern will appear .
If at any time during this process the box is set into rotation again , the black spot , wherever it is , will be drawn out into a long thread and the extent of the black surface will then rapidly grow , for the edge of the black is unstable .
The two layers which meet where the film is black tend to extend the area where they meet , but they cannot drive away the liquid between the layers , owing to its viscosity .
They can , however , drive the liquid into little blisters all round the periphery of the black area , which the colour shows to be thicker than the adjacent portions of the film .
Then these blisters , being thicker and heavier , move away from the black downwards or outwards , as the case may be , while the black travels in the other direction through the film .
Thus it is that when the black is all collected at the centre again it is larger .
This process may be repeated and a black centre spot 5 cm .
or more in diameter may soon be attained .
5 .
When the black spot is large enough to be conspicuous , like the pupil of the eye of a great beast wdth a brightly coloured iris , and the rotation is stopped and then started again slowly when the spot has moved say half-way towards the edge , the formation , first of a comma , then of a spiral of several turns , becomes very striking .
If the rotation is slow , the way the black spiral breaks up so that its parts may move inwards may be seen .
It is curious .
If when the film is at rest and inclined , and a well-developed parallel band pattern has been established , the box is made to turn , the conversion of these into double-threaded spiral patterns is beautiful beyond all expectation ; if when the spiral pattern is well formed the rotation is reversed the spiral will unwind .
The appearance of black among the brilliant colours enhances their brilliance .
Sometimes the instability due to the edge of the black is unduly marked , and then when the black begins to form and is drawn in a spiral through the film the increase of the black is so rapid that it would all become black in a few seconds .
The film never remains long when this is the case .
When however , the process is normal , the film may last for two hours before half of it has become black .
This is more especially the case when the glycerine is increased up to one-third of the original oleate solution .
The black spiral lines intersecting the film infect it with the unstable quality and the black and blue spots soon pervade it all and can then be sorted out by centrifugal force by rotating the box .
6 .
While anything from 1/ 10 to 1/ 3 of glycerine is a suitable addition when making the experiments previously described , a solution without glycerine is better when the black film is the object of examination .
With this solution I have with a smaller box soon obtained the whole film black , the last luminous specks round the periphery gradually disappearing .
With Mr. C. V. Boys .
[ June 26 , such a film the phenomenon of the double black , that is of a film of half the normal black thickness , or about 6 instead of about 12 micromillimetres , may be well seen .
Further , as the double black only weighs half as much per unit area as the common black it may be collected so as to form a central extra black spot in the black .
Here , however , the separating forces are much smaller than they are in a coloured film and the process is slow .
Whatever view may be held as to the existence of an unstable thickness between about 12 and 100 micromillimetres , it is not easy to imagine valid cause for a second between about 6 and 12 micromillimetres .
It would appear then that there should be some independent cause for the sharp division between the two blacks , one double the thickness of the other .
Great familiarity with the appearances suggests that the surface layers which meet in the ordinary black may act almost like actual skins and where the double black is seen one is broken and the remaining portions are adherent to the unbroken film , a kind of viscosity preventing the sliding which the surface tension of the broken skin should induce .
The unbroken one would then be under double its normal tension in the double black parts , and if the layer acquires its normal tension from being in contact with the air on one side , then this gets its double tension from having the air on both sides .
I fear this is a gross way of regarding these molecular structures .
It at least is consistent with appearances .
With regard , however , to the existence of any unstable thickness which would make the thinner whites impossible , I do not find any experimental evidence of this in particular .
If the film is very nearly level the combined suction of the edge and the draining give rise to small areas which show every gradation from black , through grey and white , to the colours of the first order .
I do , however , find a marked instability at the edge of the black when it is drawn out and broken up in a coloured layer .
The steep edge then breaks into blisters as already described , the result possibly of the longitudinal instability of a thickened edge , and this continues with thicker films .
It is only when these show colours of higher order than the first that any evidence of the slope of the edge is visible , for then with a pocket lens a luminous edge can just be detected .
7 .
Using the ordinary liquid , again spin the film until a ring pattern is well developed and then remove the central stopper of the shade .
There will be an axial indraught of air , the air escaping round the edge of the cover .
Where the indraught strikes the film it will cause it to become thinner , and a central thin spot may be recognised by its colour .
8 .
Then hold the stopper of an ammonia bottle containing dilute ammonia for a moment near the hole in the shade .
Immediately the indraught of 1912 .
] Experiments with Rotating Liquid Films .
vapour acts on the film , increasing the surface tension of a central spot , which immediately thickens , and then very soon , being in an unstable position in the centre , undergoes a convulsion and makes a hurried dash for the edge .
9 .
After ammonia treatment the thinning effect of an indraught of clean air is more marked .
10 .
Other vapours may be used .
Many , such as acetate of amyl , aniline , orthotoluidine , formaldehyde , make a thick spot ; others such as ether make a thin spot .
11 .
Instead of turning the box leave it in a slightly inclined position until horizontal bands of colour have become established , and then , holding the ammonia near the edge of the shade , gently raise this on the side where the ammonia is held .
Immediately the part of the film near the inrush is thickened at the expense of the rest of the film , and if this is already thin enough to show the brighter colours of the first and second order it may all flash into a straw colour or white of the first order with a thick blue or green streak due to the ammonia .
12 .
Using a spirit level or the film as a guide , adjust the position by the aid of the levelling screws until the film is level .
Then if the three screws are in a circle 6 inches ( 15 cm .
) in diameter the film may be tilted roughly to any desired angle by inserting pennies under one foot .
Each penny increases the angle by half a degree .
Set the film at a small inclination not exceeding 3 ' , and to save time get rid of much superfluous fluid by spinning it a short time or until a good black spot has been formed .
Then leave the film at rest .
After several minutes probably an action will have started which keeps the coloured portion of the film in constant movement and gives rise to an amazing network of black lines with coloured margins .
Whether it is the formation of a thin spot near the lowest side due to suction of the edge rising through the film , or the falling through the black of a coloured spot which has gathered together at the upper edge , the result is the passage up or down , as the case may be , of a black line which is persistent .
With angles much steeper than 3 ' a rising black spot is in such a hurry that the long black tail which it leaves cannot follow , and gets drawn off , but this is not the case at small inclinations .
A heavier spot falling through the black carries down a black line .
The margins of these black rivers cannot meet , for the black is constantly growing and encroaching on its banks , piling them up as coloured spots on either side , which descend as already described .
These thicker parts falling and thin spots caused by the suction of the ring rising occasionally hit a black river and bend it with its banks out of its course , and the process continues in a stealthy and persistent way for some 346 Mr. C. V. Boys .
[ June 26 , hours , and the number of black lines continually increases .
Examined with a lens the phenomenon is one of marvellous beauty .
13 .
The rivers are constantly flowing upwards to feed the black area which is formed in this way , not by ordinary draining .
Curious blobs of black are formed in the rivers and break away through the mass of coloured islands , and where they enter the black sea they often draw out from the islands an extended isthmus , which becomes longer and narrower , and then breaks at one or more points .
The liberated promontories or islands instantly contract under the action of a well-marked " line tension , " and either retreat into the main coloured area or form absolutely circular coloured islands , which gently settle down and rest against a host of other islands formed in the same way .
14 .
While the banks on the opposite sides of a black river cannot squeeze out the black river and coalesce , these circular islands , with their sharply curved edges , are able to do so , and they are constantly joining to form larger islands .
The smaller the inclination the less this should recur .
15 .
The existence of this line tension on the margin of the black is certain , and its effect is conspicuous .
I have seen the same phenomenon with the thinnest colours in thicker colours , but here it is less marked , and it is also to be seen , but not in so marked a degree , on the edge of the double black .
While there can be no doubt as to the fact , I think the following a probable reason , and the figures here given would indicate that it is not impossible .
The black areas abut into the coloured areas often without any visible gradation of colour , or where the adjacent colour is of a higher order than the first it may be that there will be a luminous margin just discernible with a pocket lens .
The greys , which would be seen if the black thickened gradually , are not often seen except as described above under the number 6 .
The banks of the black rivers and spots may therefore be very steep , and if these intermediate thicknesses really are unstable , this probably is the case .
If the banks should be actually vertical then , where they occur , there is an increased surface equal in amount to the heights of the banks on the two sides of the films .
Taking a black river , with banks showing the brown colour of the first order , this amounts to 200 \#151 ; 12 or 188 micromillimetres .
If the ordinary surface tension of 2'8 dynes to the millimetre acts on this bank there would be an additional tension appearing as a line tension equal to 2*8 x 188 microdynes .
This is 5-25 x 10-4 dynes .
This quantity is a maximum quantity , calculated on the assumption that the banks are vertical .
If not vertical , but inclined , the extra surface , and consequently the line tension , will be less .
The two 1912 .
] Experiments with Rotating Liquid Films .
edges of a brown promontory may then pull it in with a force which cannot much exceed 10-3 dynes , and which may be very much less .
It is not possible to calculate the rate of movement from the viscosity , partly because there is no means of telling over what area of the black the shear extends , and partly because viscosity may well be anomalous in such films .
This , however , is of no consequence , because the same experiment provides the means of ascertaining what velocity is given to a coloured island under an exactly ascertainable force .
For instance , taking an island of 10 sq .
mm. area , brown of the first order in colour , in a black film sloping at an angle of 1 in 20 , the weight of such an island will be 2 x 10-6 grm. , and the excess of its weight over an equal area of the black will be T88 x 10-6 grm. The force causing this to descend will then be 1-88 x lO"6 x 981-4-20 = 0'92 x 10~4 dine .
This is of the same order of magnitude as the line tension due to moderately sloping banks , and experiment shows that such an island descends through the black at a speed of the same order of magnitude as that of a contracting promontory .
I should say that at the first rupture of the very slender neck the first part of the retreat is much more rapid than that which follows .
16 .
Having the film with a large amount of black , whether the black network intersects the coloured portion or not , turn the box slowly so as to draw it out into a wide spiral pattern of black and colour .
Reverse the directions a few times and gradually the whole area may be converted into one of coloured islands on a continuous black sea with a long isthmus several centimetres long here and there ; or if the black is less developed then there may be innumerable black circular spots on a continuous coloured ground .
On leaving this to settle when the film is inclined not more than 1 ' the actions described above will be seen in great variety .
17 .
If a little ammonia is allowed to enter the gently revolving box when the film is composed of coloured islands floating in a black sea , the islands where the vapour impinges will suddenly change in colour and contract , but the black will not appear to change at all .
I have , however , seen a large central black spot become suffused with a blush of greyish white on the entrance of ammonia , but it almost immediately broke .
When black abounds ammonia must be used with discretion .
18 .
If an air bubble be blown in the film it will take the form of two spherical segments meeting each other and the film at angles of 120 ' .
Each segment has therefore an area equal to that of a great circle of the sphere of which it forms a part .
The bubble will therefore weigh more than double as much as the plane film which it replaces , for the surface is 2S times as great .
On turning the box therefore the bubble goes to the edge and sticks there .
348 Mr. C. V. Boys .
[ June 26 , If , however , the bubble be blown with coal gas or hydrogen the gas and film will , if the bubble is large enough , be lighter than the air and film which it replaces and so on turning the box it will go to the centre and remain there absolutely true in position .
As , however , the surrounding film becomes thinner , which it does more quickly than the bubble , rings of colour of a lower order appear round it looking like the planet Saturn , the position gradually becomes unstable and the bubble fidgets round to a gradually increasing extent .
I have seen such a bubble in a black area and it is curious that the liquid of the bubble does not seem able to pass readily through the junction line and the black .
19 .
If a piece of spun glass from 10 to 15 cm .
long , or a piece of human hair about 15 cm .
long , have its ends joined so as to form a ring and this be laid on the rim of the box so as to overlap the film , then on breaking the film in the space between the fibre and the rim the fibre will shoot into the film , where it will appear perfectly circular in form .
If now the box is gently inclined the ring will float up or down until it has found a place where the weight of fibre is equal to that of the coloured bands which it replaces .
If the inclination is only a few degrees these bands tend to become broad , and the weight of the film can readily be compared with that of the ring by reference to the colour plate in my book on e Soap Bubbles .
' If this is not available the weight of any part of the film can be ascertained by inspection ; for the quarter wave-length of green light in the solution is yowo mm-\gt ; and green light will be reflected vertically when the film is 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , etc. , ten-thousandths of a millimetre thick , or when it weighs 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 , etc. , hundredths of a milligramme per square centimetre .
The first of these odd numbers is in the white of the first order , the second is in the nondescript white of the second order between the blue and the yellow , the third is in the conspicuous apple green and this is T-S-\#165 ; milligram to the square centimetre .
The following greens , first dull , then bluish , then pale , and then paler , are 7 , 9 , 11 and 13 hundredths of a milligram per square centimetre .
All therefore that is necessary is to look for the apple green , which cannot be mistaken .
That is 5 , and the thicker greens may be counted from this , using odd numbers only .
As a variation the ring may be set loose in the film , but not have the inner film broken .
This is best done with spun glass , which should be laid on to the film at its upper part where it is already coloured .
The ring then settles down into the lower regions and the difference of the weights of the films within and without are equal to the weight of the ring .
Then when the inner film breaks , which it often does first , the ring immediately darts upwards to its new position of rest .
I have made this experiment with rings of various sizes , but those mentioned 1912 .
] Experiments with Rotating Liquid Films .
are suitable as the equilibrium position is then in a conveniently coloured region .
20 .
If the box is rotated slowly with a ring such as I have described under 19 in the film , the ring will go to the centre and stay there until the rings of colour round it reach that colour in which it is in equilibrium .
When this is the case the ring behaves as the bubble did and gradually gets further away from the central position .
All the time the ring pattern can be seen and the positions where the ring is nearest and furthest are easily seen , but this is not convenient for weighing the film , whereas the method under 19 is , and I do not know of any other simple way by which this may be done .
21 .
Plateau has described ( vol. 1 , p. 277 ) an experiment by Van der Mensbrugghe , who placed a light spherical bulb of glass in a soap film stretched on a vertical ring .
He found , on turning the ring , that the sphere resting on the edge rolled and maintained its position .
I have made a convenient variation of this experiment , and shown it as a lantern slide , using the blown egg of a bird , not exceeding in size that of a house sparrow .
The hole in the egg-shell should be mended with a small disc of tissue paper and celluloid dissolved in acetate of amyl .
The egg immediately turns round , so that its maximum and oval cross-section lies in the plane of the film , and , when the ring is turned , the egg-shell slides or rolls , and , when the speed is increased , it rolls and jumps all over the area occupied by the film .
The smaller birds ' eggs will actually remain supported by the film when this is horizontal .
Small rings of celluloid , of elliptical or other shape , and convex in the * transverse direction , should do just as well .
They should be more easy to handle , and they would remove the only good excuse for robbing the nests of our precious birds .
I have , in the description of the experiments , expressed myself as shortly as possible , but I hope sufficiently to show that the instrument may provide not only a useful method of investigation and much philosophical entertainment , but may be a valuable addition to the appliances of a physical laboratory , and one with which students may make many useful and instructive experiments .
I have not thought it worth while to add what might be called laboratory notes on some of the experiments , notably , on that of weighing the film .
I have made a machine for viewing the rotating film , so that it may appear stationary .
A reflecting prism is mounted with its large face and long edges parallel to the axis within a tube which can run in ball bearings .
This device , which was used by the late Mr. Jervis-Smith in a dynamometer , causes fixed things to appear to turn twice as fast as the prism is turning and in the same direction .
If the prism does not rotate and the object does , it VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; A. 2 B Mr. C. E. Haselfoot .
[ June 26 , appears to rotate at its own proper speed , but in the reverse direction .
If both rotate in the same direction , but the object twice as fast as the prism , it does not appear to rotate at all .
I have examined the rotating soap film with this but have not obtained any striking results .
I have , however , observed the curious effect of angular error in position of the prism .
This causes a point in the axis of the motion to appear to describe a circle once for every turn and in the same direction .
If the prism were truly in position a point not in the axis would appear to turn twice for every turn and in the same direction .
If the prism is not truly placed a point not on the axis will appear to move with a combination of these movements , it will describe a trochoidal curve .
The Diffusion of Ions into Gases at Loiv Pressure .
By C. E. Haselfoot , Fellow of Hertford College , Oxford .
( Communicated by Prof. J. S. Townsend , F.R.S. Received June 26 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) 1 .
In papers published in the ' Proceedings ' of the Royal Society , * ' the charges on ions produced by the action of Rontgen rays and radium on air * were determined by a method depending on the diffusion of the ions , and in the course of the investigations it was observed that the removal of water-vapour from the gas produced a large change in the motion of negative ions .
In this paper the results are given of some accurate experiments on the ions produced by radium , and experiments at low pressures on the motion of the ions produced by ultra-violet light are described .
In the latter case , effects similar to those observed by Prof. Townsend when the gas was ionised by Rontgen rays have been found , and some interesting results at pressures lower than those previously employed have been obtained .
2 .
The arrangement of the apparatus is here reproduced ( fig. 1 ) .
The ions are generated in the field A by radium placed in shallow horizontal grooves/ , covered with aluminium foil , in brass blocks F. They pass under the action of the electric force through the grating g and the aperture h into the field B , which was kept constant by means of the brass rings G maintained at definite potentials .
Here they diffuse and the ratio R of the charge received by the disc D to the charge received by the disc and the ring S together is measured .
This ratio is a known function of E7 ?
Z/ P , * Yol .
80 , p. 207 ; vol. 81 , p. 464 ; vol. 82 , p. 18 .

