A Voyage of the Emperor of China into the Eastern Tartary , Anno .
1682 .
THe Emperor of China made a Voyage into the Eastern Tartary , in the beginning of this Year 1682 , after having appeased ( by the Death of three rebellious Kings ) a Revolt , formed in some Provinces of the Empire : One of those revolted Princes , was strangled in the Province of which he had made himself Master : The second being brought to Pekin with the Principal Heads of his Faction , was cut in pieces in the sight of the whole Court : The most Considerable among the Mandarines , acting with their own hands in this sad execution , to revenge upon this Rebel the Death of their Parents , which he had caused to be cruelly murdered .
The third which was the most considerable , ( and indeed the chief of all the Revolt ) had by a voluntary Death prevented his deserved Punishment , and so put an end to a War which had lasted for seven Years .
The Peace having been settled , by the reestablishing in the Empire and all the Provinces , the Peaceable enjoyment of their ancient Liberties : The Emperor departed the 23d .
of March to go into the Province of Loaotum , the Country of his Ancestors , with a Design of visiting their Sepulchers , and ( after having honoured them with the usual Ceremonies ) of prosecuting his journey into the Eastern Tartary : This journey was about 11 hundred miles , from Pekin to the end of it .
The Emperor took with him his eldest Son , a young Prince of ten years old , which had already been declared Heir of the Empire : The three principal Queens went also in this journey , each in their guilded Chariot ; the princiF pal pal Kings also which compose this Empire , were accompanying with all the Grandees of the Court : And the most considerable Mandarines of all the Orders , who having all a very great Train of Attendants , and very numerous Equipage , made a Court about the Emperor of more than 70000 Persons .
It was his Will that I should accompany him in this Journey , and that I should be always near him , to the end I might make in his Presence , the Observations , necessary for knowing the disposition of the Heavens , the elevation of the Pole , the magnetical Declinations of every Place , and for measuring with Mathematical Instruments , the height of the Mountains , and the distances of Places : He was well pleased also to be informed of what concerned Meteors , and many other Physical and Mathematical Matters .
In so much , that he gave Order to an Officer to carry upon Horses such Instruments as I should have occasion to make use of , and recommended me to the Prince his Uncle , who is also his Father in Law , and the second Person of the State , he is called by a Chinese Name , which signifies an Associate of the Empire : He gave Charge to him to cause all things to be provided for me which were necessary for this Journey , which this Prince performed with a very particular goodness , causing me to lodge always in his own Tent , and to eat at his Table .
The Emperor ordered that they should give me Horses of his own Stables , to the end I might the more easily change in riding , and some of those were of them he himself had ~ , which is a mark of very extraordinary distinction .
In this Journey we always went toward the North-east : From Pekin to the Province of Leao-tum , the way being about 300 miles is ~ equal : In the Province it self of Leaotum , it is about 400 miles , but much more unequal by reason of the Mountains ; from the Frontier of this Province to the City of ~ , or the River which the Tartars call ~ , and the ~ ~ , the way , ( which is about 400 miles ) is very difficult , being crossed sometimes by Mountains extremely steep , sometimes by Valleys of extraordinary depth , and through Desert Plains , wherein for two or three days march we met with nothing .
The Mountains of this Country are covered on the East side with great Oaks and old Forests which have not been cut for some Ages .
All the Country which is beyond the Province of Leaotum is exceeding desert where nothing is to be seen on all sides but Mountains and Vallys , and Denns of Bears , Tigres , and other Devouring beasts , you can scarce find a house , but only some poor Reed huts , upon the sides of some brooks , and streams .
All the Cities and Burrow-towns which I have seen in the Province of Leao-tum , and which are in very great numbers are entirely ruined : One can see nothing through the whole Country but old ruined Walls with Rubbell , Bricks and Stones .
In the out skirts of these Cities there have been of late some few houses built , but without any order .
Some of them made of Earth , others of the Rubbish of the old Buildings , the most part of them covered with straw or thatch , and but few with tiles .
There is now not the least footsteps remaining of a great number of Towns and Villages which were here before the War .
Because the petty King of the Tartars , who began to kindle this War having but a very small Army , caused the Inhabitants of those places to take Arms , which places he forthwith destroyed , that he might take from his Soldiers the hopes of ever returning again to their own Homes .
The Capital City of Leao-tum , which is called Xin-Yam , is a City very fair and pretty entire , it has as yet the Remains of an ancient Palace .
It is ( for as much as I was able to remark by divers Observations ) of the Latitude of 41 degrees 56 minuts , that is to say , two degrees above Pekin , tho ' hitherto both the Europeans and the Chinese have given that City the Latitude of 41 degrees .
There is in that City no declination of the Magnetic Needle , as I have found by many reiterated Observations .
The City of Ula which was almost the very extreme or our Journey lies in 44 degrees and 20 minutes .
The compass there declines from the South to the West one degree 40 minutes .
But to Resume the prosecution of our Journey .
From Pekin to this extreme towards the East there is made a new way , by which the Emperor can commodiously march with his Horse , and the Queens in their Chariots .
This way is about 10 foot broad , and as even and straight as could possibly be made ; it is extended above 1000 miles , it has a little Raiseing on each side of about a foot high every where equal and perfectly parralel to one another ; and this way was as neat especially when the weather was fair , as a floor where the husbandmen beat out their corn in the field , there were also certain persons along this way , who only took care to smooth and cleanse it .
The Christians have no where so great care of sweeping their streets and public places where the holy Sacrament is to pass in the Processions , as these Infidels have of ~ the ways , where their Kings and their Queens are to pass every time they go out of their Palaces .
There was made for the Return a way like the former , they plained or levelled the Mountains as far as they were able , they raised Bridges over the Rivers , and for ornamenting them , they had extended on each side of them a sort of matts upon which they had painted divers figures of animals , which had the same effect with Tapestry hangings , with which the streets are usually hung in Procession .
The Emperor did very seldom make use of this way , being almost always in hunting : And when he accompanied the queens he only Rod by the side of it , to the end that the great number of horse which were in the train that followed should not spoil it : He ordinarily marched at the head of this kind of Army .
The Queens followed Immediately in their Chariots , with their train and their Equipage ; they notwithstanding left some space between the King and themselves : After these marched the Kings , the Grandees of the Court and the Mandarians , every one according to his Rank , behind these an infinity of Attendants , and other people on horseback brought up the ~-guard .
As there was not one City upon all this way , that could either lodge so great a Multitude , or furnish them with Provisions , and that the greatest part of their Journey was through a Country very little inhabited , so they were necessitated to carry along with them all things that were necessary for the Journey , and even Provisions of Victuals ~ three Moneths .
Upon this Account there were sent before by the ways which were made on each side of the Emperors way , an Infinity of Waggons , Camels , Horses , and Mules for to carry the Baggage : Besides these the Emperor , the Kings and almost all the Grandees of the Court , had great numbers of Horses led , for the use of changing from time to time .
I do not here reckon the droves of Beefs , Sheep , and other Cattel which they were obliged to have with them .
And though this great Multitude of Men , Horses , and Droves passed by a way at a good distance from that of the Emperor , yet it raised so horrible a dust , that we always seemed to march in a cloud , and thence found it difficult to distinguish those that marched 15 or 20 paces from us .
The March was so well regulated , that this Army encamped every night upon the sides of some River or Brook .
'T was for this reason that they caused the Tents and the Baggage necessary for this Incamping to set out very early in the Morning ; and the Quarter-masters upon their first arrival , marked the ground most proper for the placing of the Emperors Tent , of the Queens , of the Kings , of the Grandees , of the Court , of the Mandarines , each according to his Dignity , and according to the Dignity he had in the Chinese Militia , which is divided into eight orders or into eight Standarts .
In the space of three moneths we passed about 1000 miles , advancing towards the north east and about as many in our return : In fine we arrived at Kam-Hay , which is a Fort situated between the South Sea and the Mountains of the North : It is there where is the beginning of that so much cellebra ed Wall , and which ~ the Province of ~-~ from that of ~ ; from whence it is extended very far on the side of the North over the tops of the highest Mountains .
When we entered this Province , the Emperor , the Kings , and the Grandee , of the Court , quitted the great way of which we have hitherto spoken , to take that of the Mountains of the North , which are extended without interruption towards the North-East : There some days were passed in Hunting , which was performed in this manner .
The Emperor chose 3000 men of his Life-guard , armed with Arrows and Javellings , and dispersed them some on this side some on that ; so that they possessed themselves of a great circute about the Mountains , which they environed on all parts , which made a kind of Circle whose Diamiter was at least 3000 paces ; then marching to draw nearer together with equal progress and without quitting their range , what ever Obstacles they found in way ( the Emperor having joined with them several of the Captains , and of the Grandees of the Court , for the better keeping of their Order ) they Reduced this great Circle to another much less , which had about 300 paces in the Diameter : So that all the Beasts which had been stayed within the first , found themselves taken in this last as in a Net : for that every one setting his feet upon the ground , they Locked themselves together so closely , that they left no meshing place for them to make their escape by .
Then they Pursued them so Vigerously in this little space , that the poor creatures tired with the violence of their Coursing , came and fell down at the feet of their Chasers , and suffered themselves to be taken without trouble .
I saw taken in this manner two or three hundred Hares in less then one day , without counting an Infinite of Wolves and Foxes .
I have seen the same thing divers times done in that part of Tartary , which is on the other side of the Province of Leao-tum , where I remember to have seen , amongst others , more than 1000 Deer so pent up by these sort of ~ , which came to cast themselves into the hands of the Hunters , having found no passage to save themselves by : they killed also Bears , Bores , and more than 60 Tigres , but these are taken by other means , and with other weapons .
The Emperor ~ that I should be present at all these different Huntings , and he recommended to his Father in Law , in a most obliging manner the having a particular care of me , and of giving charge that I should not be exposed to any danger in the Hunting of the Tigers , and the other fierce Beasts ; I was the only Person of all the Mandarines who was without Arms , and so near to the Emperor , though I made light of the Fatigue during the time we were on our Journey , I found my self so wearied every evening when I got to my Tent , that I was not able to support my self ; and I should have dispensed with my self divers times from following the Emperor , if my friends had not councel 'd me to the contrary , and if I had not feared that he would have taken it ill if he should have perceived it .
After having passed about 400 miles in Hunting daily after this manner , we arrived at last at Xyn-Yam , the capital City of the Province , where we stayed four days .
The Inhabitants of Coree came to present to the Emperor a Sea-calf which they had taken , the Emperor caused me to see it , and asked whether our European Books had spoken any thing of this Fish ; I told him we had a Book in our Library at Pekin which had explained the Nature of it , and dispatched presently a Currier to our Fathers at Pekin , who brought it me in a few days : The Emperor was pleased to say that what was said of this Fish in this Book , was agreeable to this which he had seen , and caused it to be carried back again to Pekin to be ~ efully preserved .
During the stay which we made in this City , the Emperor with the Queens went to visit the Sepulchers of his Ancestors , which are not very far distant , from whence ~ sent them back to Xyn-Yam , to continue his own Journey into the Eastern Tartary .
After several days of marching and hunting , he arrived at Kirin , which is distant from Xyn-Yam 400 miles : This City is built along the great River Songoro , which ~ its source from the Mountain Cham-pe , distant 400 miles towards the South : This Mountain so famous in the East for having been the Ancient Seat of our Tartars , is always covered with Snow , from whence it had its name , because Cham-pe signifies the white Mountain .
So soon as the Emperor saw it , he alighted from his Horse and fell on his knees on the bank of the River , and bowed himself three times to the ground to Salute it : After which he caused himself to be carried upon a Glorious Throne of Gold , and so made his entry into the City : All the people ran in a throng before him~ testifying by their Acclamations the Joy they had to see him .
This Prince took great pleasure in those Testimonies of their Affection ; and that he might give them some marks of his being very sensible of it , he was pleased to suffer himself to be seen by all , and forbid his Guards to hinder the people from approaching him , as they used to do at Pekin .
They make in this City Barks of a very particular manner : The Inhabitants keep always a great number of them ready fitted to Repulse the Muscovites , who come often into this River , to dispute the fishing of Pearls .
The Emperor reposed himself two days , after which he Descended upon the River with some Lords , accompanied with more then 100 Boats , till he arrived at the City of Ula , which is the fairest of all this Country , and which at other times hath been the Seat of the Empire of the Tartars .
A little below this City , which is at most about 32 miles from Kirin , the River is very full of a certain fish which resemble near enough the ~ of Europe : and it was principally for the taking the Divertisement of Fishing , that the Emperor went to Ula ; but the Rains coming on so suddenly , swelled the River so much , that all their Nets were broken and carried away , by the great Flood of those land Waters : The Emperor notwithstanding stayed 5 or 6 days at Ula ; but seeing the Rains were not at all discontinued , he was obliged to come back to Kirin , without having enjoyed the Pleasure of Fishing : as we ascended the River , the Bark wherein I was with the Emperors Father in Law , was so indammaged by the agitation of the Waves , that we were constrained to go ashore , and mount a Chariot drawn by one Ox , which carried us very slowly to Kirin , the Rains not at all ceasing during our Journey .
In the Evening when the Emperor was entertained upon all these Adventures , he said Laughing , the Fish have cheated us ; at length , after we had stayed two days at Kirin , the Rains began to Deminish , and we re-took our way towards Leao-tum .
I cannot here express the pains and Fatigues these had caused us to undergo , dureing the whole course of this Journey , by reason of the ways which the Rains had spoiled , and rendered almost Impassible : we went without staying over the Mountains and over the Vallies , and we could not pass but with extreme Danger , the Brooks and Rivers which were swelled by the Floods and Inundations which ran from all parts : the Bridges were either overturned by the Violence of the Currents , or all covered by the great overflowing of the Waters .
There were made in divers places great Collections of Water , and of Mud , that it was almost impossible to be drawn out of it .
The Horses , Cammels , and other Beasts of Burden , which carried the Baggage could not advance , but remained sticking in the Mud of the ~ , or Dyed of tireing upon the Ways .
The Men were not at all less incommoded , and all were enfeebled for want of Victuals , and of ReG fresh freshments necessary for so great a Journey : Many of the Horsemen were obliged , either to lead their Horses on Foot , who were no longer able to carry them , or to rest in the middle of the Fields to suffer them to take Breath : And though the Quarter-masters and the Harbingers , spared not their Pains , nor for Wood ( which they cut on all sides ) to fill with Faggots all the bad Passages : Yet notwithstanding after the Horses and Chariots , which took the Van early in the morning had quite passed , it was Impossible to pass after them : The Emperor himself , with his Son , and all the great Lords of the Court , were obliged more than once , to foot it over the Mud and the Marshes , fearing to expose themselves to greater danger , if they should have passed them on Horseback .
When they came to Bridges , or those other obstructions all the Army stayed : And as soon as the Emperor was passed , with some of the most considerable Persons , all the rest came together in a Throng , and every one striving to pass first , many were tumbled over into the Water : Others taking ways more about , found them more Dangerous , falling into Sloughs and Bogs , out of which they could not Recover themselves .
In fine , there were so many Inconveniences to be met with , in all the Ways of Eastern Tartary , that the old Officers who had followed the Court above 30 years , said they had never suffered so much in any Journey .
It was on those Occasions , that the Emperor more than once , gave me the Marks of a Respect altogether particular : the first day that we put ourselves in the way for returning , we were stayed in the evening , by a Torrent so great and Rapid , that it was impossible to Ford it : The Emperor having by chance found a little Boat , which could not hold above 4 Persons at most , passed first with his Sons , and some of the Principal Kings followed : All the other Princes , Lords , and Mandarines , which the rest of the Army attended , ( in the mean while ) with Impatience the return of the Boat , to carry them to the other side of the Torrent , because the night approach proched , and the Tents had long before passed : But the Emperor being come back to us in such another Boat as the former , demanded aloud where I was ; and his Father in Law having presented me to him , he added , let him come in and Cross over with us : So we were the only Persons that passed with the Emperor ; and all the rest stayed on the Bank , where they must pass the night under the open Heaven : The same thing happened the next day almost in the same manner .
The Emperor at Noon meeting with a like Rapid and swelled Torrent , gave order that the Boats should be made use of for Transporting the Tents , Packs , and other Baggage till the Evening , then willed that I should pass alone with him and some few of his Attendants , having left on the other side all the Great Lords , who were necessitated to pass the Night there : The Emperors Father in Law himself , having asked if he should not pass with me , since I lodged in his Tent and eat at his Table ; this Prince answered him , that he should stay , and he himself would take Order to give me what was necessary .
After we had past , the Emperor sitting on the Bank-side , made me sit by him , with the two Sons of the two Petty Western Kings , and the first Colao of Tartary , whom he distinguished on all Occations .
As the Night was fair , and the Heavens very clear ; he willed me to Name in the Chinese and European Languages , all the Constellations that then appeared above the Horizon , and he himself first named all those he already knew ; then unfolding a small Map of the Heavens , which I had some years since presented him , he put himself upon inquiring the Hour of the Night , by the Stars in the Meridian : Pleasing himself to show to all , the Knowledge he had acquired in these Sciences .
All the Marks of his Favours which he so often gave me , even to the sending me to eat from his own Table ; these marks I say were so Public , and so Extraordinary ; that the two Uncles of the Emperor , who bore the Titles of Associates of the Empire , being on their return to Pekin , said that when the Emperor had some Regret or appeared somewhat Sad , he would Resume his ordinary Gaiietie upon the sight of me .
I arrived at Pekin in perfect Health the 9th day of June very late , though divers were detained in the way by Distempers , or were returned from their Journey , ~ and Lamed .
I say nothing of what we did for Religion in this Journey , having Reserved that for a particular Relation , by which it will appear , that by the Grace of our Lord , the Favours we received at the Court of China , produced considerable Fruits for the Church , and did not take away the Cross from the Missionaries .
I shall here add the Tartarean Names , and the distance of every Place through which we passed in the Eastern Tartary , from the Capital of the Province of Leao-tum even to Kirin , according to the order of Days which we spent in this Progress .
A Topographick Chart may be made and inserted into the Map of the Province of Leao-tum , to be found in the Atlas of Father Martin Martinius , by changing only the Latitudes according to the hights of the Pole , which we have before Specified .
I shall add one thing more which I Understood from the Inhabitants of Ula , to wit that Nincrita ( which is a Place much Renowned in those Parts ) is distant from Ula 700 Chinese Stadia ( each of which is 360 Geometrical Paces ) And that Embarking at Nincrita upon the great River Helum , into which the Songoro , and some other more considerable Rivers are discharged , and following the course of the River , which runs towards the North-East , or somewhat more to the North , they arrive in 40 days Journey at the Eastern Sea , which is ( as I believe ) the Straight of Anien : I was told this by the General of the Militia , which is at Kirin ; and who had performed this Voyage himself .
The Distances of the Places through which we passed in the Eastern Tartary .
THe first Day we passed from Xyn-Yam , the Capital of the Province of Leao-tum , and we arrived at Seac-Lysto , so the place is called in the Chinese Language .
95 .
stadia .
The 2d .
day we arrived at Cha-cay Angha .
85 .
stadia .
The 3d .
day at another Torrent of the -70 .
stadia .
same Name .
The 4th .
at Kiaghuchen .
50 .
stadia .
The 5th .
at Feyteri .
80 .
stadia .
The 6th .
at the Torrent of Seipery .
60 .
stadia .
The 7th .
at the Torrent of Ciam .
60 .
stadia .
The 8th .
at Courou .
50 .
stadia .
The 9th .
at the Burrow of Sape .
40 .
stadia .
The 10th .
at Quaranny Pyra .
40 .
stadia .
The 11th .
at Elten eme Ambayaga .
70 .
stadia .
The 12th .
at ypatan .
58 .
stadia .
The 13th .
at Suayen ny Pyra .
60 .
stadia .
The 14th .
at Ylmen .
70 .
stadia .
The 15th .
at Seuten .
70 .
stadia .
The 16th .
at the City of Kirin .
70 .
stadia .
1028 .
All this Course being 1028 Chinese Stadia , contains 369 miles ( each ) of 1000 Geometrical Paces ; the Chinese Stadium containing as I mentioned before 360 Geometrical Paces .

