]\gt ; The Coefficients of the Attractions or Repulsions of Two Electri.fied Conductors when close together .
By ALEXANDER RUSSELL , M.A. , D.Sc .
, M.I.E.E. ( Communicated by Dr. C. Chree , F.R.S. Received June 2 , \mdash ; Read June 17 , 1909 .
) Introduction .
In connection with spark systems of wireless telegraphy , a knowledge of the electrostatic energy stored between spherical electrodes the instant of the disruptive discharge is of great value to the engineer .
In order to increase this energy , without unduly increasing the applied potential difference , the electrodes have been placed in compressed or rarefied gases and in oils or other liquid dielectrics having great electric strength .
In these cases the least distance between the electrodes may only be a small fraction of the radius of either , and so the computation of the electrostatic energy by the ordinary formulae is so laborious that it is practically prohibitive .
By extending a mathematical theorem first given by Schlomilch , author has succeeded in greatly simplifying the computation of this energy .
The formulae given below are very easily evaluated when the spheres are close together , and hence , in conjunction with Kirchhoffs final modification of his own formulae , they give the complete practical solution of this important historical problem .
The formulae obtained enable the attractive or repulsive forces between electrified spherical conductors to be easily calculated , however close the spheres are to one another .
They have been employed to recalculate the latter portion of the table published by Kelvin .
table has also been extended so as to make it more useful to physicists and electricians .
Mathematical Theorems .
By Schlomilch 's method ( loc. cit. ) we can prove that , ( 1 ) 'Zeitschrift fur Mathematik und Physik , ' vol. 6 , p. 407 , 1860 .
Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 27 , p. 673 , 1886 .
'Phil .
Mag April and August , 1853 , or Beprint , p. 83 .
The Coefficients of Capacity , etc. approximately , provided that the last term is very small compared with unity .
In this formula , , are Bernoulli 's numbers , and .
( 3 ) It is easy to show by Stirling 's theorem that , ( 4 ) and hence , by the properties of functions , .
In many cases the value of may be simply expressed .
For instance , if denote Euler 's constant , we have log3 , ] , etc. In general , however , the value of has to be computed by a series formula .
In our problem is never less thau unity , and so the following formula can always be used\mdash ; , ( 6 ) where .
The values of , , are cviven ( in Dale 's ' Mathematical Tables .
' From ( 3 ) we can show that when is unity , and when is 2 , .
We can also show that for any value of , other than 1 or lies in value between and .
Its value also is not altered when we for Writing for , we easily find that ' and The author has verified by actual calculation that , to a seven accuracy at least , formula ( 1 ) is true , both when is 1 and when is 2 , even when is as great as , i.e. 1.386 nearly , and powers of greater than the ninth are neglected .
Dr. A. Russell .
[ June 2 , Putting in ( 1 ) we get Schlomilch 's Theorem .
Schlomilch has verified by actual calculation that when is , i.e. nearly , his formula , neglecting powers of beyond the ninth , practically gives the numerical value of the series correctly to 10 significant figures .
He has also shown that when is not greater than ll0g ( 10/ 9 ) , i.e. nearly , the formula ( 7 ) gives a seven figure accuracy .
To obtain the same accuracy by Clausen 's Theorem , which was utilised and extended by Kirchhoff ( toe .
cit 13 terms would have to be taken , and the calculation of the later terms is very laborious .
The Capacity Coefficients of Two Spheres .
Let us consider the case of two spherical conductors whose radii are and respectively , and let be the distance between their centres .
If the charges and potentials of the spheres be and respectively , we have and ( 8 ) where and are the capacity coefficients of the two spheres .
The values of these quantities in terms of , and are given by the following ( 9 ) ( 10 ) ( 11 ) where 4 , ( 12 ) , and .
( 13 ) We also have and .
( 14 ) When is small , it is necessary to alter the formulae ( 9 ) , ( 10 ) and *Cf .
Maxwell , vol. 1 , S 173 .
1909 .
] The Coefficients of Capacity , etc. ( 11 ) by means of ( 1 ) so as to lessen the labour involved in the computation .
From ( 9 ) we have very approximately , where Finding the corresponding formula for and subtracting it from ( 15 ) we get , by ( 5 ) , very approximately .
When the spheres are so close ether that is small compared with or and , and hence .
( 17 ) This formula*has been obtained previously for the case of spheres in contact .
From ( 10 ) also we find that , ( 18 ) very approximately .
The Attractions or Repulsions between the If the potentials of the spheres be maintained constant , proved that when they alter their positions owing to their mutual electric actions they move in such a way that the electrostatic energy of system is increased by an amount exactly equal to the work done on the conducting spheres by the electric forces .
If be the electrostatic energy , we have and therefore * See Maxwell , vol. 1 , S 175 and the references given there .
Reprint , p. 466 , Second Edition .
Dr. A. Russell .
[ June 2 , where the least distance between the spheres , and is the force between them .
If is negative , increases as diminishes , and therefore the force is attractive , but if is positive the force is repulsive .
The values of and can easily be found from the formulae .
Spheres at Microscopic Distances apart .
In this case , being supposed negligibly small compared with unity , we have , and , and hence ' ( 19 ) If the difference of potential produced between the spheres by giving a charge to one to the other be , then is defined* to be the capacity between the spheres .
This is the capacity that is generally considered by electrical engineers .
It is easy to show that its value is and hence it can be found by ( 19 ) .
The joint capacity of the two spheres when at the same potential is .
It therefore equals .
( 20 ) When , this capacity is 2 log2 ; when , it equals log3 ; when , it equals log4 , etc. If the square of the difference of potential between the two spheres be not very small compared with , the force between them is attractive and is given by .
( 21 ) Sir J. J. Thomson , ' Electricity and Magnetism , ' Third Edition , p. 84 .
Russell , ' Alternating Currents , ' vol. 1 , p. 93 .
1909 .
] The Coefficie of , etc. Case of Equal Spheres .
When the spheres are equal , and the formulae become ; ( 22 ) ; ( 23 ) ; and .
( 25 ) If be the radius of each sphere , we have and .
Formulae ( 22 ) were used in computing the following tables:\mdash ; Dr. A. Russell .
[ June 2 , * Given also by Kelvin had calculated the value previously by himself and made it ( see Reprint , p. 23 ) .
Simplijied Formuloe for Equal Spheres .
When is small , we find that , .
Putting in these formulae , we find that and .
The true values are and .
Hence ( 26 ) and ( 27 ) can be used in all practical calculations when is not greater than a tenth .
When an accuracy of the hundredth part of 1 per cent. suffices and is not greater than 1/ 10 , we may use the formulae , ( 28 ) and for the capacity between the two spheres and their joint capacity respectively .
1909 .
] The Coefficients of Capacity , etc. It will be seen that this latter capacity is vely little greater than the value which it has when they touch .
Similarly , when the squares and higher powers of are negligibly small compared with unity , the electrostatic force between them is iven by .
( 30 ) When is small , and is not very small compared with the fnitude of the attractive force is approximately ( 31 ) .
We see , therefore , that when the spheres are very close ether the attractive force varies as the diameter of either sphere , as the square of their difference of potential , and inversely as the least distance between them .
When the spheres are at the same potential , the formula given by ( 30 ) agrees with that found by Kelvin for the repulsive force between two spheres in contact .
As he pointed out , this force is independent of the size of the spheres .
Finally , if the charges on the spheres be and respectively , we find by ( 28 ) and ( 31 ) that the attraction between them is iven by which when can be neglected compared with may be written

