XVIII .
" Observations on the Posterior Lobes of the Cerebrum of the Quadrumana , with a Description of the Brain of a Galago .
" By WILLIAM H. FLOWER , Esq. , Demonstrator of Anatomy at the Middlesex Hospital .
Communicated by Dr. S-IARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received June 20 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) After referring to the present state of our knowledge upon the subject , and especially to the descriptions recently given of the " posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle " and " hippocampus minor " in the Orang-Utang by Dr. Rolleston , in the Chimpanzee by Mr. Marshall , and in Ateles by Mr. Huxley , and the statements of M. Gratiolet , that the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle or " cavite ancyroide " obtains an enormous development in Monkeys , the author proceeds to detail his own observations ( which are illustrated by drawings and photographic representations ) upon the condition of these parts in the brains of animals belonging to the three families of the order Quadrumana .
Family 1 .
CATARRHINA .
Orany-Utang ( Pithecus satyrus).-An account is given of the examination of the brain of a young female of this species , preserved in the Middlesex H-ospital Muselm .
The posterior lobes of the cerebral hemispheres were so far developed that they completely covered the cerebellum , although not prolonged backwards to quite so great an extent as in the human brain .
To examine the interior , the right hemisphere was removed to the level of the inferior surface of the corpus callosum , and then further portions were carefully dissected away , so as to expose the lateral ventricle , with its three cornua and their contained structures .
It is to be observed that brains which have been long in spirit are in some respects not so well adapted for dissection as when in a recent condition , as the distinction in appearance between the white and grey substance is lost , and the contiguous walls of cavities , which in the natural state would have fallen apart , have now become hardened in such close contact , that their real nature may readily be overlooked .
In this way only can the statements of Tiedemann as to the absence or rudimentary condition of the posterior cornu in the Simise be accounted for .
However , the brain of this Orang is sufficiently well preserved to show that its ventricular cavity presents almost the exact counterpart of that in the human subject .
The posterior cornu extends quite as far backwards as in an average example in man , its apex being but g of an inch ( =of the entire length of the hemisphere ) from the occipital extremity of the hemisphere ; and its direction well answers to the description " backwards , outwards , and then inwards .
" Upon the inner wall of the cavity is the hippocampus minor , which will bear comparison with a very well-developed specimen of this structure as met with in the human brain , where , as is well known , it is subject to great variations in size and form .
Its length is inch , its breadth at the base 3- : inch .
The portion of the wall of the ventricle situated opposite the junction of the descending and posterior cornua ( called eminentia collateralis or pes accessorius ) corresponds in configuration and relative size to the similar part in the brain of man .
The hippocampus major has no distinct digital marks ; these are , however , indicated by a nodulated appearance in the expanded termination .
The remaining portion of the ventricle presented nothing requiring special remark .
In order to verify these observations by an examination of the corresponding parts of the opposite side , the upper part of the left hemisphere was also removed , and a very good view obtained of the ventricle , with its posterior cornu .
It was precisely similar to that just described , the two sides exhibiting in their internal structure a perfectly symmetrical appearance .
Cercopitheecus-Four examples of this genus which have lately died at the Gardens of the Zoological Society were examined while in a recent condition .
The first was C. pygerythrus ( the Vervet Monkey ) .
In order that the brain might be examined in situ , the right side of the cranium was removed in the following way .
First , a longitudinal incision was made with the saw a quarter of an inch to the right of the middle line , from the supraorbital ridge to the foramen magnum ; then with the bone forceps the whole of the cranial wall thus marked out , was carefully cut away down to the base , as were also the right halves of the three upper cervical vertebrae .
The dura matter being then removed , a photograph was taken , in which the relative position of the different parts of the brain are well seen .
The posterior lobes of the cerebrum project to the extent of 4 inch beyond the cerebellum , covering it more completely than in the Orang , and nearly , if not quite , as much so as in man .
The upper part of the remaining portion of the calvarium was now removed , a section made across the hemispheres at the level of the lower surface of the corpus callosum , and the lateral ventricles opened out on both sides .
Although in general form and in the arrangement of the structures composing their walls these cavities present a great resemblance to those of the human brain , one remarkable peculiarity immediately strikes the observer , viz. the great development of the posterior cornu , with the contained hippocampus minor .
It extends from the commencement of the descending cornu to near the apex of the well-developed posterior lobe , is of considerable vertical depth , being curled round the voluminous projection of the hippocampus minor , and is directed at first somewhat outwards and backwards , then directly backwards , and finally takes a considerable sweep towards the middle line , the characteristic form which has obtained for this part in man the name of " digital cavity .
" The hippocampus minor is formed , as in the human brain , by the deep involution of a layer of superficial grey cerebral matter , covered internally by a layer of white substance , which is so thin that the surface of this prominence had a darker look than the other parts of the ventricular walls .
It differs from a typical example of the corresponding part in the human subject in its great relative size , both as to length and as to the extent to which it projects into the ventricle .
The hippocampal sulcus ( well marked on the inner surface of the posterior lobe of all apes ) is not only very deep , but has concealed within it a convolution of considerable size , in the form of a longitudinal eminence attached to the floor of the fissure .
The eminentia collateralis is prominent .
The hippocampus major is smooth upon the surface .
The anterior cornu is of the same form and extent as in the human brain .
In the brains of C. sabeus , C. mona , and C. ruber a similar disposition of these parts was found .
In the last named , the posterior lobe of the cerebrum is even more prominent , and the hippocampus minor of still greater size , as it tapers less towards its termination ; in fact this eminence is here actually larger than the hippocampus major , to which its true relation can be better studied in these apes than in man , Macacus .
In a monkey of this genus ( M. erythraeus ) the posterior cornu and hippocampus minor were observed to obtain almost as large a development .
Family 2 .
PLATYRRHINA .
In Cebus apella , the ventricular cavity resembles in all essential particulars that of Cercopithecus .
There is the same extent of posterior cornu and the same complex arrangement of anfractuosities , producing the very protuberant hippo campus minor .
It is among the members of this family ( e. g. Saimiris ) that the projection backwards of the posterior lobes of the cerebrum attains its greatest extent .
Family 3 .
STREPSIRHINA .
The cerebral anatomy of the Lemurs is tFill imperfectly known ; therefore a detailed description is given in the paper of the brain of a species of Galago , the most important part of which is the following note upon its internal structure:-- " A horizontal section of both hemispheres was made at the level of the corpus callosum , and the lateral ventricles laid open .
A broad and very distinct posterior cornu extends backwards almost to the extremity of the hemisphere , occupying nearly the whole of the posterior lobe .
Its floor and inner wall are raised into a prominence , having distinctly the characters of the hippocampus minor as found in man and the higher Quadrumana , and corresponding with the bottom of the sulcus before noted on the under surface of the lobe .
The form of this eminence is somewhat triangular , the apex being directed backwards ; but the surface 2E is convex , both from above downwards , and in the antero-posterior direction , so that the axis of the cavity that contains it , though directed generally backwards , has first an outward inclination , and finally turns somewhat inwards .
The anterior or broad end of the eminence is concave , being adapted to the curved posterior margin of the hippocampus major , from which it is separated by a deep groove .
The length of the hippocampus minor is i of an inch , its breadth at the base almost as much .
The outer wall of the ventricle has a distinct projection into the angle between the hippocampi , nearly corresponding with the 'eminentia collateralis ' of the human brain .
On comparing the posterior lobe and hippocampus minor in Galago with the same parts in the true apes ( e. g. Cercopithecus ) , it is seen that though the anterior part is proportionally as broad , the length is considerably diminished ; the portion that is wanting being equivalent to that part which , in the apes , covers the posterior third of the cerebellum , and projects beyond it .
" As none of the authors who have written upon the brains of the Lemuridae describe a hippocampus minor , as Vrolik expressly states that it is absent in Stenops , and as Burmeister alone assigns a posterior cornu to the ventricle ( in Tarsius ) , it seemed desirable , after the results of the observation of these parts in Galago , to reexamine the brain of some other members of the family .
Two specimens in spirit of Loris ( Stenops ) Bengalensis , placed at the author 's disposal for this purpose by Dr. Grant , afforded distinct evidence of the existence of a well-developed posterior cornu and hippocampus minor , though unfortunately in neither instance were the brains in sufficiently good preservation to allow of a satisfactory description or figure of the parts being made .
Galago and Stenops being generally considered as not very elevated forms in the Lemurine family , we can have but little doubt as to the presence of the posterior cornu and hippocamnpus minor throughout the different members of the group , and hence a most important character is supplied for determining the affinities of these interesting animals .
It indicates as decisively their position among the Quadrumana , as it separates them completely from the Insectivora , in which order some naturalists have placed them .
Many links are still wanting in the chain of evidence required to determine the true history and classificatory value of the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle , and the peculiar disposition of cerebrai substance constituting the hippocampus minor , but the conditions in which they have been found at so many distinct points of the series , appear to lead almost irresistibly to the following conclusions:1 .
That these parts , so far from being ( as has been stated by some anatomists ) peculiar to the human brain , are common to man and the whole of the Quadrumana , including even the lowest forms .
2 .
That they attain their maximum of development in species which do not belong to either extremity of the series .
3 .
That in the lower forms their diminution takes place chiefly in the antero-posterior direction , corresponding with the reduced length of the posterior cerebral lobes , the greater part of which is occupied by them .
4 .
That in the higher forms they are narrower in proportion to their length , and bear a smaller ratio to the surrounding mass of cerebral substance .
5 .
That the extreme of the last condition is met with in man , where these parts are also characterized by their variability in size and form , want of symmetry on the two sides , and frequent rudimentary condition , or even entire absence .

