[ 89 ] IV .
On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures.\#151 ; Part XVII .
By Wm. C. Willtamson , LL. D. .
F.R.S. , Professor of Botany the Owens College , Manchester .
Received February 8 , \#151 ; Read March 13 , 1890 .
[ Plates 12-15 .
] Byginodendron Oldhamiumand Rachiopteris aspera .
In the fourth of this series of Memoirs ( ' Phil. Trans./ 1873 , p. 377 , et seq. ) I described a remarkable plant under the name of Dictyoxylon Oldhamium I also gave reasons for substituting the late Mr. Gourlie 's generic name of for that of Dictyoxylon .
In the same Memoir ( p. 403 ) I referred to some petioles , to which I proposed to assign the name of Edraxylon ; but later researches demonstrated the necessity for abandoning this as a generic term and substituting for it the more comprehensive one of Rachiopteris .
In my Memoir , Part VI .
( 'Phil .
Trans./ 1874 , Plate 2 , p. 679 , et seq. ) , I described this proposed Edraxylon under the name of Rachiopteris aspera .
Certain similar features exhibited by the above two plants led me to remark in Memoir IV .
, p. 403 , after showing that the Rachiopteris aspera was obviously the petiole of a Fern , uI think it far from impossible that these may prove to belong to Dictyoxylon ( Lyginodendron)Oldhamium ' , but since I have not yet succeeded in correlating them with any certainty , 1 shall add no more respecting them at present .
" Since 1873 1 have accumulated a vast amount of material illustrative of the structure and relations of these two plants , and am now in a position to demonstrate that they respectively represent the stem and petiole of the same organism which proves to be a Fern .
I was long under the conviction that the remarkable exogenous development of the stems of many of the Carboniferous Cryptogams , which I have so continuously demonstrated to exist , and which is now so universally recognised by Palaeontologists , had no existence amongst Ferns .
I have now to show that this development did exist amongst Ferns as well as amongst the arborescent Lycopods and Calamites , in which it is so conspicuous .
Fig. 1 ( Plate 12 ) is part of a transverse section of a stem or branch of Lyginodendron Oldhamium , in which a represents the medulla ; h , the exogenous xylem zone ; c , the place of the inner cortex , wanting in this specimen ; d , one of the pairs of vascular bundles , so characteristic of the , cortex MDCCCXC.\#151 ; B. N 10.11.90 .
of this plant ; e , the outermost cortex , composed , in transverse sections , of radiating bands of sclerenchyma , g , alternating with parenchymatous areas , f At k we find two bundles of tracheids , like those at d , forming the centre of the cortical structures of a petiole of Racliiopteris aspera , i , i , which petiole is organically united to the cortex e of the Lyginodendron .
The two bundles k , k are assuming the oblique relative positions seen in the similar bundles of the free petiole of R. , represented in fig. 2 .
Other sections in my cabinet , similar to fig. I , demonstrate the same facts , viz. , that the pairs of bundles , fig. 1 , d , which form so characteristic a feature of transverse sections of the middle cortex of pass outwards , through the outer cortex , to become the trache^eal* bundles of the petioles of the plant , and which petioles I had previously designated Racliiopteris aspera .
I may state that my friend Graf Solms-Laubach , who has obtained numerous specimens of the Lyginodendron associated with others of Racliiopteris aspera from a locality on the continent , agrees with me in the conclusion at which I have arrived respecting their unity .
The more perfect specimens of the Lyginodendron obtained during the last seventeen years have thrown yet further light upon those figured in 1873 .
In the latter , as at fig. 1 , c , no traces of the middle bark were preserved ; but examples from Halifax , for which I am indebted to my friends Mr. Cash and Mr. Spencer , of Halifax , have supplied what was wanting .
Fig. 3 is a transverse section in which this inner cortex , c , is shown to consist of a zone of extremely delicate , thin-walled parenchymatous cells , scattered throughout which are numerous gum-canals , l. Three of these canals are represented , enlarged 250 diameters , in figs. 4 and 5 , embedded in the thin-walled cells , c , c , of the cortex .
These canals are obviously formed by a schizogenetic separation of the cortical cells , c , and display no signs of having possessed the linings of epithelial cells so frequently seen in the similar canals of living plants .
Each canal is lined by a thin carbonaceous layer , a , within which is a free carbonaceous rod , with a round or oval section .
I presume that both these black elements are the carbonised remains of gums or resins with which the canals were primarily filled .
Fig. 3 , b ' b ' , shows an unusual occurrence of laminae of tracheids growing inwardly into the medulla , to be referred to later .
Another feature characterising equally the outer cortex of Lyginodendron and that of its petioles is well shown in fig. 6 , which represents a superficial tangential section of the cortex of Lyginodendron Oldhamium .
At its lower part this section represents the structure already described in Memoir IV ' .
The fibrous bands g and the cellular areas f correspond to those indicated by the same letters in figs. 1 and 8 , but * I have , throughout this Memoir , used the term tracheae in the sense in which it is used by de Bary as comprehending both the shorter , thickened , but elongated cells , tracheids , and the longer tracheae or vessels .
De Bary does so " specially in those cases where it is not certainly decided whether a tube belongs to the one or to the other subdivision , " which is almost always the case amongst these coal plants .
( See de Bary ' Comparative Anatomy of Phanerogams and Ferns , ' p. 155 .
) OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
h , h ' , and h " represent various sections of numerous peculiar peripheral appendages .
Though so conspicuous when present , examples of this cortex are common in which no traces of these organs can be found .
When perfect , each one is bottle-shaped , having a length of '05 of an inch and a maximum diameter of '02 .
The superficial layer of each of these appendages is prosenchymatous , the cells being especially elongated and narrow near and at the terminal neck of the bottle .
Internally the appendage consists of a very regular parenchyma , as is shown by the longitudinal and transverse sections h " , h " .
Owing to the slight obliquity of the entire section fig. G , at li only the isolated projecting tips of these organs are seen .
Many of my transverse sections of the Lyginodendronexhibit similar appendages ; thus , they are seen in fig. 1 , and the basal portion of one is intersected at fig. 3 , This latter , like many other similar ones , illustrates the nature of these structures .
They are emergences , not hairs .
Their internal parenchyma , h , is seen in fig. 3 , to be an extension of the subjacent parenchyma , f , of the outer cortex , whilst the prosenchymatous superficial coat is derived from the two fibrous bands , g ' , g , by which f is bounded laterally .
This explanation is yet better demonstrated by fig. 9 , in which the two portions , h , of the emergence are seen to be respectively developed from the fibrous laminae , g , g , and from the intermediate parenchyma , f , of the outer cortex .
The very characteristic emergences , h , of figs. 1-3 and 6 , reappear in the petioles hitherto described under the name of Rach In my Memoir VI .
, I pointed out* the existence , on the periphery of these petioles , of numerous " abortive hairs ' ' or " tubercles , " but I was not then aware of their full significance .
Fig. 7 represents a characteristic example of a transverse section of a young j Racliiopterisaspera , from the periphery of which a number of these emergences , are given off .
The origin of the superficial layer and of the internal parenchyma of each emergence is seen to be identical with that demonstrated in my description of fig. 9 .
Fig. 8 represents a longitudinal section of a similar petiole , in which these emergences are again seen at h , h , variously intersected .
The above facts combined make it clear that aspera is merely a petiole of Lyginodendron Oldhamium ; hence the former name must disappear from our lists .
It also follows that Lyginodendron Oldhamium is a true Fern , most probably belonging to some Sphenopterid type .
This determination carries along with it the further one that the stems of some , at least , of the Ferns of the Carboniferous age developed their xylem or vascular structures exogenously , through the instrumentality of a meri-stemic zone of the innermost cortex , which practically must be regarded as a cambium layer .
But the history of this interesting plant is not yet ended .
In various preceding memoirs , but notably in Part XVI .
, I have provoked a strong opposition amongst some botanists whose studies have been chiefly limited to living forms of vegetation , by revealing the existence , amongst the Lycopodiaceous plants of the Coal Measures , of a mode of development of a medulla which differs so widely from * Plato 52 , figs. 8 , 9 , and 13 , , F , pp. 681-2 .
what occurs amongst living plants that the sceptics are unable to accept my account of it .
My late friend Professor de Bary , when his students occasionally declared that certain suggested explanations were " impossible , " usually replied , " in scientific research nothing is 'impossible .
' " I utilise this philosophic reply , and commend it to some of my new opponents.* I now advance further and proceed to show that the process of medullary development which , as demonstrated in my Memoir XVI .
, occurs so commonly amongst the Lepidodendroid stems and branches , takes place , if possible , in even a more striking manner in the young growths of Lyginodendron OldJiamium .
In Plate 25 of my Memoir IV .
, fig. 16 , I represented a young lateral branch , bursting outwards through the cortex of an older stem .
The development of these branches was demonstrated in several other figures in the same memoir .
I have through many past years accumulated numerous additional examples of these young branches , which now enable me to speak decisively respecting their structure and development .
Plate 13 , fig. 10 , exhibits a transverse section of one of these young branches as it emerges through the cortex of the parent stem , and before it has become invested by an independent cortex of its own .
Its centre , a , appears to consist of a solid cluster of barred tracheae , of variable diameters , grouped in no special order .
Springing directly from the periphery of this central mass , a considerable number of tracheseal laminae , b , radiate outwards , in regular order , constituting the xylem zone ; these laminae are separated by numerous conspicuous medullary rays\#151 ; both being obviously the result of a process of exogenous growth .
Fig. 11 represents a second specimen , similar in most respects to fig. TO , but differs , first , in being of larger dimensions ( both being drawn to the same scale ) , but , secondly , in a change which is taking place in its vascular centre , the tracheae composing which axis are now becoming dissociated , producing an irregular cavity , a , which is forming in their midst ; by this change the tracheae are separated into four or five irregular groups , a ' a ' , each of which adheres closely to the inner border of the exogenous xylem cylinder , b. Such examples show no trace of the proper bark of the branch ; but in another specimen in my cabinet ( Cabinet number 1885 D ) , the growth of which has advanced slightly beyond that of fig. 11 , and in which the cavity , a , has increased yet more in size , the characteristic cortex of Lyginodendron is fully developed , showing that this branch had completely emerged from the outer cortex of the parent stem .
In fig. 12 we have a third similar , but yet larger , section , in which the central cavity , a , has not only undergone a further increase of area , but is now occupied by a * Some of our older botanists scarcely realise the progress made during the last few years in the study of what may be designated " anomalous " features in the tissues of living plants .
Such " anomalies " are less rare , even now , than many botanists are aware of .
In the primaeval plant-world they abounded .
( See I ) .
H. Scott , " On some Recent Progress in our Knowledge of the Anatomy of Plants .
" ' Anjials of Botany , ' vol. 4 , No. 13 , p. 147 , November , 1889 .
) OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
perfectly developed parenchymatous medulla ; whilst the four fragments , of the primary central tracheae al axis of fig. 10 are still further separated from one another .
Fig. 13 is an outline sketch of the central part of a Lyginodendron very advanced in growth , but only enlarged less than eight diameters instead of thirty , as is the case with figs. 10 , 11 , and 12 .
The line b represents the inner border of the exogenous cylinder .
The five points , ci , a , are the five dissociated segments of the originally solid tracheseal bundle , corresponding to those a ' a ' of figs. 11 and 12 .
On making accurate measurements , I find that whilst the outer surfaces of these five bundles continue to be in the closest contact with seventy-one parts of the circumferential line b , the intervening spaces , a " a " , non-existent in the young state of the branch , occupy 164 parts : so that whilst , in the first instance , the circumference of the circle b and that of the aggregate of the united bundles , a a , were absolutely coincident , the circle has enlarged , at the least , to more than three times its original circumference .
Such an enlargement was necessarily accompanied by a corresponding increase in either the number , or size , or both , of the tracheaeal laminae and their intervening medullary rays , constituting the exogenous xylem zone .
Some of my botanical friends have endeavoured to explain the corresponding phenomena amongst the Lepidodendra , by supposing that , where such differences exist in the size of the medullae , they did not represent different stages of growffh of similar branches , but were characteristics of different kinds of branches ; but no such improbable hypothesis is for a moment admissible in the case of this Lyginodendron .
The effects of growth , and of growth alone , as described above , are seen in every one of the innumerable specimens of Lyginodendron that have yet been discovered .
In this case , that these are the effects of growth , is seen , first , in the breaking up , by dissociation , of the solid axial bundle of tracheae ; secondly , in the formation of an area in the centre of this bundle , which became occupied by a steadily expanding parenchymatous medulla , and , lastly , in the secondary effects of these central expansions on the tracheaeal xylem and the cortical zones which enclose the medulla .
To dispute this is , in my opinion , alike unscientific and futile .
When we note that the medulla of the largest stem of Lyginodendron which I ha ve yet obtained has advanced from little more than a point to above an inch in mean diameter , it is clear that such an enlargement must have been accompanied by considerable changes in the relations of the more external tissues , however apparently permanent they might be .
In order to obtain some fairly accurate data in reference to this strain put upon these more external structures , I have counted as accurately as the subject admitted of , the number of the radiating laminae of the tracheae comprising the xylem zone which started from the inner margin of that zone , and also the number of those which reach its outer or cortical zone .
The results of these observations made on sixteen 94 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON ON THE ORGANISATION sections of stems and branches of various ages and sizes , are given in the following table Cabinet numbei'S of the slides contain- Number of the vascular laminae in the ing the specimens examined .
Inner margin .
Outer margin .
Slide A. 1885 C. 44 54 Central axial bundle dissociating " B. 1885 A. 46 66 Central axis solid , fig. 10 " C. 1883 A. 58 93 Central axis solid " D. 1885 A. 61 96 Central axis solid " E. 1883 62 95 Central axis solid .
Branch not yet emerged from the parent stem " F. 1885 D. 65 89 Specimen a corticated independent branch " G. 1141 71 85 Specimen with a central medulla , fig. 12 H. 1885 H. 74 97 Central axis dissociating , fig. 11 " I. 1885 78 99 Central axis solid " K. 1884 84 139 Independent corticated branch , medulla much enlarged " L. 1885 F. 95 150 Independent corticated branch , with a medulla " M. 1138 116 200 Independent branch , medulla large " N. 1885 135 233 Independent branch on stem " 0 .
1885 272 499 " P. 1128 364 642 The specimen represented in the outline , fig. 13 " Q. 131 1120 5460 The above table shows that as each stem or branch increased in size , an increase also took place in the number of the radiating laminae that originated close to the medullary border of the exogenous zone , as well as of those which reached its cortical margin .
We find that the eight very young sections , A , B , C , D , E , G , H , I , had a mean number of 69 such protoxyloid laminae , whilst the seven larger branches , F , K , L , M , N , 0 , P , all of which had become independent or corticated branches , completely emerged from the parent cortex , had a mean of 161 such laminae , the example P having 364 .
The very large stem Q shows even a much further increase , having 1120 of these primary laminae .
That the second column should show a large number of secondary laminae intercalated between the periphery of the medulla and the innermost cortex was to be expected where an exogenous mode of growth had obviously existed .
It is clear that many of the laminae thus indisputably added even to the inner border of the vascular zone , must have been intercalated chiefly in the intervals corresponding to a " , a " , of fig. 13 ; and it is perfectly clear that wherever they were developed along this expanding medullary margin they must have pushed apart the older lamellae between which they were so intercalated .
Since every one of the larger and older branches in the lower half of my table must once have been small and young , like those of the upper half , it seems indisputable that we have here a phenomenon of growth and expansion which has no parallel , that I am aware of , amongst living OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
plants .
That 44 laminae of my example A can be represented by 1120 similarly arranged ones in the section Q shows a remarkable expansion of the medullary border that was produced not by the mere enlargement of the existing tissues , but by the intercalation of new ones .
That such must have been the case is , as I have already observed , demonstrated by the dissociation of the primarily contiguous tracheae of the central axis a of fig. 10 , already described .
We realise the extent of this separation when we compare the intervals separating the bundles of fig. 13 with the corresponding ones a ' of fig. 12 .
In estimating the sizes of those intervals we must remember that fig. 12 is enlarged more than fig. 13 by at least four times .
I repeat , therefore , that however brought about , we have two separate and independent proofs of the origination and development of the medullary area .
First in the separation of the clusters of tracheae which primarily formed one united cluster , and secondly in the enormous increase in the number of the vascular laminae , the inner extremities of which , though commencing their growth at different periods of the plant 's life , alike start from the medullary border of the vascular zone , and extend to its periphery.# The origin of the cellular medulla in the young branches of Lyginodendron presents no real difficulties .
Plate 26 , fig. 24 , of my Memoir , Part IV .
, shows that these branches were derived from the exogenous xylems of the parent stems .
The medullary rays of those woody zones are large and multicellular ( Plate 13 , fig. 3 , 6 " ) , hence we can easily understand how a few small examples of these cells could be enclosed amongst the tracheae of a central axis like fig. 10 , a , and yet escape detection .
Personally , I have no doubt that such wars their origin .
There is no reason for supposing that the area a of examples like fig. 11 was not normally occupied by the young medulla .
The cells in such examples have merely failed to be preserved .
In one of my slides ( Cabinet number 1883 ) is an obliquely transverse section of a very young branch , in which the tracheae are readily distinguishable by the conspicuous reticulations of their walls ; running through the central axis of this branch is a very thin line , consisting of a small number of minute , but distinct cells .
These germs would amply suffice for commencing a meristemic action , which would produce such a medulla as I have described above .
But another question is less easily answered .
What has occasioned the expansion of the medullary area and its surrounding tissues ?
Has it been due to the centrifugal pressure of the growing medulla alone , or have other forces taken part in the process ?
* * It is scarcely necessary to remind any botanist that though , as recent exogenous stems grow , an enormous increase takes place in the number of the radial laminae of the wedges composing their woody zone , little or no increase is seen in the number of those laminae , of which the inner extremities reach the central medulla , or the point which that medulla originally occupied .
All the additions are intercalated more or less peripherally .
HeterangiumGrievii .
In the Memoir , Part IV .
, already referred to , I also described under the above name a plant from the Cliff of Petticur , near Burntisland , in Fifeshire .
Some months ago my young friend , Mr. Lomax , of Batcliffe , found , for the first time , specimens of the same plant from Dulesgate , in Lancashire .
But along with these he brought from the same locality a series of sections of what at first seemed to be a different species of Heterangium .
But long and careful comparison of .
all the examples of that genus in my cabinet convinced me that the supposed new forms were merely the Grievii in a younger state of growth .
The specimens previously described were characterised by the existence of a central mass composed of irregular clusters of tracheae , imbedded amongst numerous parenchymatous cells ( loc. .
, Plate 28 , fig. 30 , surrounded by an exogenously developed zone of tracheae ( ibid. , b ) .
This plant was also invested by a well-defined zone of sclerous prosenchyma , which , in the transverse sections , was seen to be more or less subdivided radially into cubical masses ( loc. cit. , fig. 30 , and Plate 29 , fig. 35 , k ) .
The central part of the transverse section ( Plate 14 , fig. 14 , a ) resembles the Petticur plant in consisting of numerous clusters of tracheae aggregated into a large axial mass , into the composition of which many parenchymatous cells enter .
That these cells may have become carbonised is probable from the fact that , when examined under a higher power , the appearances shown in fig. 15 are observed .
Two of the clusters of tracheae , enlarged 75 diameters , are here represented .
In the centre of each cluster we have a number of larger tracheae , a , a , surrounded by still more numerous smaller ones , intermingled with some cells , d , d. The investing zones , c , c , seem to me to be the carbonised remains of the inter-tracheaeal cells which occupy similar positions in the Petticur plant .
At fig. 14 , a , a tracheaeal bundle is passing outwards from the central mass to some external appendage .
A thick cortex , fig. 14 , b , b , invests these central tissues : it is fundamentally parenchymatous , but the forms and arrangement of its component cells vary much in different portions of it , as will be shown when describing longitudinal sections of this tissue .
The outer cortical zone is a layer of sclerous fibres , e , e. The aspect presented by these fibres , as seen in transverse sections , is shown in fig. 16 .
The lignified wall and central lumen of each cell are very distinctly seen .
These fibres reappear at e in fig. 17 , which represents a longitudinal section through the centre of a stem like fig. 14 .
At a we have t^e central vasculo-medullary axis , consisting of intermingled barred tracheae and vertical rows of cells , the latter having chiefly rectangular transverse septa .
Immediately external to this vascular axis we find an innermost layer , b , b , of the cortex , the cells of which are arranged in rather regular perpendicular lines , but more externally these cells become larger and more irregular in size , form , and arrangement , though still retaining a tendency to dispose themselves in vertical rows .
This zone of the cortex is bounded externally by an irregularly undulating , ill-defined line , b ' , b ' .
Outside this OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
line the cortex , c , d , assumes a very different aspect .
Its cells still arrange themselves in vertical but undulating lines of a peculiar character .
At the points we find transversely disposed bands of very strongly defined cells , alternating with intermediate areas , d , d , through which the same lines of cells continue their vertical course but with altered flexures .
The cells themselves , also within these areas , have very much thinner walls .
The cell-clusters , o ' , c ' , as seen in these vertical sections , are parts of numerous masses of more or less definite lenticular form , which abound in this part of the cortex ; on making broad tangential sections through the same we note that , whilst many of these masses are arranged in horizontal transverse lines , many of them incline at very various oblique angles .
Fig. 18 represents a small portion of a very superficial tangential section , in which c is the part of the cortex under consideration , and e , the fibrous investing layer .
The section of one of the lenticular clusters of cells illustrates the peculiar symmetrical arrangement so frequently observable within these clusters .
The longitudinal section , fig. 17 , shows that at their inner margins these lenticular cell-masses compress the inner cortex those margins projecting into the concave flexures of the line b ' .
Similar clusters to those seen at fig. 18 , , in the transverse sections of these stems .
The sclerous cells of the zone e of fig. 14 are seen in figs. 17 and 18 to be narrow fibres of very great length in proportion to their diameters .
This zone cannot fail to remind the histologist familiar with the structures of the rhizomes of recent Ferns of the very similar hypodermal layer seen in some species of Nephrolepis .
The true affinities of this plant are as yet undetermined , but I have strong conviction that it will be eventually proved to be a true Fern .
Bowmanites .
In volume 5 of the third series of the Transactions of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester , I published , in 1871 , a description of a fruit to which I gave the name of VoJJcmanniaDawsoni , and further illustrations of the same fruit were given in my Memoir , Part V. , of this series.* At that date the verticillate-leaved plants of the Coal Measures were ill understood , and much confusion has resulted from that imperfect knowledge ; a confusion which a few words of explanation may help to remove .
Palaeobotanists have for more than a century been familiar with the existence , in the Carboniferous strata , of a number of plants , the leaves of which were arranged in verticils .
In his ' Prodrome/ published in 1828 , Brongniart threw a considerable number of these plants into two groups to which he gave the generic names of Sphenophyllum and Asterophyllites .
The former genus he defined , among other characters , as " feuilles verticillees , au nombre de six a douze , distinctes jusqu'a leur * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1874 , p. 54 , Plate 5 , figs. 28-30 .
O base , cuneifonnes , entibres , on fimarginees , ou m6me bifides , a lobes plus ou moins pro-fondement lacinies .
" His genus , Asterophyllites , he defined as having " feuilles planes , plus ou moins lineaires , aigues , traversees par un nervure moyenne simple , libres jusqu'a la base."* In his ' Tableau des Genres de Vegetaux Fossiles , ' published in 1849 , be again defines the two above genera in almost identical words , adding , however , that phyllum differs from Asterophyllites , " par le nombre beaucoup moindre ce ces organes h chaque verticille , 6 a 8 ou 10 , et par leur form qui est triangulaire , tronquee au sommet , ou dentee et lobee , quelquefois tres profondfiment " p. 52 ) .
In 1864 Messrs. Coemans and Kikx published their " Monographie des Spheno-phyllum d'Europe .
" In it they define the leaves as " cuneatis , sessilibus , verticillatis , nervo medio destitutis ; nervulis autem aequalibus , dichotomis " { loc. cit. , p. 414 ) .
In my Memoir , Part V. , t I described a plant in which each foliar verticil consisted of 18 linear uninervedleaves , which characters identified it unquestionably with Asterophyllites .
That these ]eaves have the characteristics of Asterophyllites and not of Sphenophyllum , is demonstrated by the numerous long and transverse sections of them in figs. 5 , 14 , 15 , 16 , and 17 of the above memoir , in which also the remarkable structure and development of the stem of the plant is described .
In May , 1870 , M. Renault had presented to the French Academy a memoir , " Recherches sir l'Organisation des Sphenophyllum et des but owing to the siege of Paris , during which the drawings were lost , the plates were only published in the * Annals des Sciences Naturelles , Botanique , ' 5e serie , tome 18 , 1873.J In this memoir , M. Renault described the internal structure of Sphenophyllum Stephanense , which structure proved to be identical , fin most respects , with that of my Asterophyllitean stem .
On the strength of this resemblance , M. Renault and H. Graf zu Solms-Laubach , have contended that I ought to have designated my plant a Sphenophyllum , and not an Asterophyllites .
I , on the other hand , still insist that , in accordance with the definition of eveiy author who has written on the subject , my uninerved leaves prove my plant not to be a Sphenophyllum , but rather demonstrate the very intimate relationship , not to say identity , of the two genera , at least , so far as some forms of Asterophyllites are concerned .
Some others are unquestionably the leaves of Calamites .
The position of the Volkmannia Dawsoni referred to above , is affected by this controversy .
In M. Renault 's memoir , p. 9 , there appears a note by M. Brongniart , apropos of my memoir of 1871 in the Manchester Transactions .
M. Brongniart says , " Ce travail s'accorde dans plusieurs points importants avec les rdsultats obtenus un * 1 Prodrome , ' pp. 68 and 159 .
t ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1874 , p. 41 , et seq. , but delivered to the Royal Society on May 17 , 1873 .
if By a coincidence M. Renault 's memoir , as now constituted , was only delivered to the Academy on May 13 , 1873 , four days before mine was delivered to the Royal Society .
OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
an auparavant parM .
.Renault , sans que M. Williamson eut de son cote connaissance de l'article des Comptes Rendusdu 30 My , 1870 .
" La plant fossile etudiee par M. Williamson , et nominee par Jui Dawsoni y did ere cependant sans aucun doute , au moins specifiquement , de cede decritepar M. Renault , par la form du faisceau vasculaire central et par l'absence des zones de cellules quadrangulaires qui l'entourent dans les echantillons de France , cellules qui , par suite de l'epaisseur de leurs parois , no doivent pas se detruire facilement .
" My plant to which M. Brongniart refers , is a strobilus , not an ordinary stem .
Herr Ch. E. Weiss , of Berlin , believes it to belong to the genus established by the late Mr. BinneyA No remains of the specimens described by Mr. Binney appear to be now discoverable , but since the important little sketch , Plate 12 , fig. 3 , of Binney 's memoir , was made by Mr. Bowman , who was an accomplished botanist\#151 ; made too when all the fragments of the original specimen were in his own possession\#151 ; I presume that it may be accepted as representing a true form .
If so , it certainly approaches nearer to what we find in my plant than any other hitherto described .
If so , however , the objects which Mr. Binney designated macrospores , must be regarded as sporangia , which the rows of similar interbracteal spheres in my Volhnannia Dawsoni certainly are .
Notwithstanding the above facts , this subject would have been left in a very unsatisfactory position had not Professor Ch. E. Weiss fortunately obtained in Germany a specimen , which he has named Bowmanites GermanieusA These figures correspond so closely with those of Mr. Bowman reproduced in Mr. Binney 's memoir , that the genus Bowmanites can now be accepted as representing an extremely distinct type of Calamarian fructification .
But until my memoir on B. Dawsoni was published , nothing was known of the internal organisation of this fruit and until now , nothing was known of the structure of its vegetative organs .
But my friend , Mr. George Wild , of Bardsley , near Ashton-under-Lyne , whose name has so often been recorded in these Memoirs , brought me the section represented in Plate 15 , fig. 19 , and which is beyond all doubt a transverse section of a stem of Bowmanites Dawsoni .
In its general features the structure of this section is identical with similar ones of my Aster ophyllites , and of M. Renault 's Stephanense , which latter differs materially from the A.utun Sphenophyllum described by the same author .
All these plants agree in having a central vascular * " Observations on the Structure of Fossil Plants found in the Carboniferous Strata , " by E. W. Binney , F.R.S. , F.G.S.\#151 ; Part 2 ; " Lepidostrobus and some Allied Cones .
" ( Palaeontographical Society , 1870 , p. 59 .
) f 'Atlas von neunundzwanzig Lichtdrucktafeln zu der Abhandlung : Beitrage sir Fossilen-Flora , III .
Steinkohlen-Calamarien , II .
' Ch. E. Weiss .
Berlin , 1884 .
Tafel XXI .
, tigs .
12 , 12 a , 12 b. ; \#163 ; [ I have recently obtained important specimens throwing additional light on the organisation of this interesting fruit , which will be described in my next Memoir.\#151 ; September 9th , 1890 .
] axis , the transverse section of which is a triangle with each of the three angles more or less prolonged in equal measures .
But in my fructification of Bowmanites the transverse section of this axis is very broadly robust , instead of being drawn out into three very long and slender radii .
Not only so , but the extremity of each short arm is very broadly truncated ; a form that hitherto has only been seen in my Bowmanites Dawsoni .
In fig. 19 the central triangle a is composed of a cluster of tracheae grouped in no special order , except that the central ones are larger than those occupying the periphery of the triangle .
In my fructification this central truncated triangle constitutes the sole vascular axis , a fact easy of explanation .
Beferring to my Memoir V. , Plate 1 , I have shown that in the very young twig of my phyllites , fig. 1 , this triangle constituted the only tracheaeal bundle , but as the vegetative twig grew in age and size , it developed exogenously zones of tracheae which were successively added , investing the triangular centre , as in figs , 2 , 3 , and 4 , resulting in the conditions seen in Plate 2 , figs. 9 , 10 , and 11 of the same memoir .
The present figure 19 is as nearly as possible in the condition of the figure 9 just referred to .
Its exogenously added tracheae are arranged in equally regular radial and concentric lines ; the sizes of the individual tracheae enlarging as they were successively superimposed upon those previously developed .
Portions of a layer of a cork-like cortex , c , are still preserved .
A similar layer is seen , not in the young twigs of my Asterophyllites 1 and 2 , but in the older ones 9 , 10 , and 11 .
It also appears in the middle of the cortex , enclosed , between an inner and an outer parenchymatous zone in M. Renault 's Autun Sphenophyllum ( loc. cit. , Plate 1 , figs. 4 and 5 , g ) , as well as in my fig. 16 .
The French savant designates it a " party subereuse."* That this stem of Bowmanites Dawsoni is constructed on the same plan as that of my A sterophyllites , and of M. Renault 's is obvious enough , but to place all these three plants in the genus , because of this vegetative resemblance , as my friends M. Renault and Graf Solms-Laubach wish to do , would be wrong .
I have already shown that the leaves of my Asterophyllites are not those characteristic of Sphenophyllum ; and the fructification of my Bowmanites Dawsoni is altogether distinct from the strobili of Sphenophyllum .
It must further be remembered that evidence is now being obtained from various quarters that there are Carboniferous plants , the branches of which bear both Astero-phyllitean and Sphenophylloidleaves .
I therefore conclude once more that we must unite Sphenophyllum and some forms of Aster ophyllites in one and the same genus ; it is equally clear that Bowmanites , though its peculiar fructification demonstrates that it constitutes a perfectly * The facts here referred to illustrate conditions so frequently seen amongst these Carboniferous plants , in which the exogenous development of a xylem zone as well as the differentiation of separate zones of the cortex mark advance of age .
The fructifications , being young and temporary organs , seem invariably to have a central axis , the internal structure of which is identical with that of the youngest vegetative twiga of the parent plant .
The Bowmanites described above is a good illustration of this truth .
0 F THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASUHES .
distinct genus , has strongly marked features of affinity in the structure of its stem to the Sphenophylloid type .
Hence all these plants may be recognised as constituting one of the several groups which collectively form the great family of the , and of which family the modern genus Equise instead of being the central , is but a poor , feeble , and degraded member .
Catamites My attention has long been drawn to the fact that , whilst sandstone casts of considerable dimensions , moulded in the interiors of the fistular medullse of Oalamitean stems are notoriously common , similar casts of the interiors of the smaller branches are extremely rare .
Fig. 20 , which represents ( natural size ) the interior cast of a single internode of such a branch is the smallest one preserving the common features of cylindrical form , longitudinal ridges and furrows , and , at .
the two ends , the two nodal transverse constrictions , that I have met with during fifty years of research .
I have thought it desirable to demonstrate the cause of this state of things .
The example here figured is '5 of an inch in diameter .
Comparing a medulla of this size with those of other decorticated specimens in my cabinets , in which the exogenous woody zone is preserved , I have no doubt that fig. 20 belonged to a branch or stem that was at least an inch in diameter , independently of its thick cortical zone .
Seeing that I possess sections of decorticated Calamitean twigs not more than '03 in diameter , myriads of similar ones must exist , but which are never represented by these sandstone casts .
I possess a very fine leaf-bearing branch in sandstone , for which I am indebted to my old friend Sir William Dawson , of which the diameter , when uncompressed .
, has been about T6 of an inch , including its cortex .
It displays longitudinal internodal ridges , but these are but the irregular products of the shrivelling of a semi-herbaceous tissue , and have no affinity with the regular ridges and furrows of fig. 20 .
I have brought together in my cabinet a graduated series of specimens which illustrate and explain the conditions referred to .
Two of these specimens are represented in figs. 21 and 22 .
Fig. 21 is the centre of a decorticated branch , the entire diameter of which is '25 of an inch , whilst that of its fistular medullary cavity , a , is about *05 .
This cavity is filled with inorganic matter , whilst at a a zone of medullary parenchyma is still preserved , which is about '005 in .
in thickness .
This medulla intervenes between the circumferential border of the inorganic cast , a , and the inner angles of the vascular wedges , b. This zone of undisturbed medullary tissue protects the periphery of the once plastic cast , , from the pressure of the elongated inner angles of the woody wedges , b. It is to be remembered that in the very young Calamitean twigs this medulla is entire\#151 ; not fistular ; but that at a very early stage of growth the centre of this entire medulla becomes ruptured .
The incipient cavity thus formed increases in diameter as the branch grows , partly in consequence of the absorption of the medullary cells , and partly through the transverse enlargement of the entire stem .
I he result is that so long as these changes do not extend beyond the state represented by fig. 21 , the exterior of the cast , a , neither can , nor does , become longitudinally ridged and furrowed .
But in the specimen represented in fig. 22 , all these conditions-are altered .
The entire diameter of this specimen is about of an inch , whilst the maximum of its medullary cavity reaches '4 .
It will be observed that not only all the medullary cells have disappeared from this specimen , but even the larger and less dense cells composing the medullary extremities of the primary medullary rays , c , c , have also been absorbed ; the inner angles of the various tracheseal woody wedges , b , b , have alike resisted pressure and absorption , and have thus given to the longitudinal ridges and furrows so characteristic of the exteriors of these inorganic casts their rounded undulating contours .
This specimen thus answers a question that has been put to me by some of my correspondents , viz. , " If the ridges of an ordinary Calamite were formed in accordance with your hypothesis of internal casts , how is it that the ridges have a rounded outline instead of projecting as radiating , vertical plates , corresponding to the entire forms of the primary medullary rays to which you say those ridges owed their existence ?
" The reply is , the process of absorption only reached the innermost extremities of those primary rays .
As the latter organs passed outwards through the xylem zone , their component cells became smaller and more capable alike of resisting pressure and decay .
I have not seen a single instance in which these more external cells had been absorbed during the lifetime of the plant .
The fistular cavity thus formed has ordinarily been filled with sand or mud , but in the present example , as is so frequently the case with the plants preserved in our Lancashire and Yorkshire nodules from the Gannister Coals , this cavity is occupied by calcareous matter , which has been in a state of solution , and which has filtered through the tissues of the plant .
The first deposits from this solution have formed , in fig. 22 , stalagmitic layers , a , a ' , lining the walls of the fistular cavity ; but in the central part , a , the intruded material has assumed a crystalline condition .
These secondary details , however , in no way affect the general conclusion , viz. , that the ridges and furrows marking the exteriors of transverse sections of these internal casts exhibit rounded contours , and not stellate ones .
The above specimen was obtained from above the Upper Foot Coal at Sholver Lane .
My cabinet contains various other specimens which lead to the same conclusions .
The section , part of which is represented in fig. 21 , is one of a series of nine , made from the same stem or branch .
Eight of these are transverse sections , which show a gradual increase of from 14 to 24-25 in the number of the tracheseal wedges of the xylem as we ascend from below .
I am indebted to my old auxiliary , Mr. George Wild , not only for this series , but also for the section fig. 22 .
The specimen from which the latter section was cut was collected by another of my valued coadjutors , Mr. James Nield , of Oldham .
OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
Index to the Plates .
Page at which Plate .
Figure .
reference is made to the figure .
12 1 Part of a transverse section of a stem or branch of Lyginodendron Oldhamium : medulla ; exo- genous tracheseal zone ; c , position occupied by the middle cortex , not preserved in this specimen ; d , pair of vascular bundles ; e , outermost cortex ; f , radial zones of parenchyma , alternating with the zones of sclerous fibres , g ; h , h , portions of peripheral emergences , corresponding to those at fig. 6 , h , h ; i , transverse section of a petiolar organ identical with Rachiopteris aspera , Will .
, with its pair of vascular bundles at k. X 13 .
Cabinet number of the original specimen , 1880 89-90 13 2 Transverse section of a slightly crushed petiole , .
Rachiopteris aspera , Will .
: c , inner cortex ; e , e , outer cortex composed of radial bands of sclerous prosenchyma , partially separated by thin zones of parenchyma ; k , k , twin vascular bundles , identical with k , k of fig. 1 ; l , gum-canals .
X 250 .
Cabinet number , 1854 90 13 2a One of the intercellular gum-canals of fig. 2 , l , further enlarged 90 13 3 Part of a transverse section of a stem of , 1 in which the inner cortex , c , is preserved ; the reference letters , a to g , as in fig. 1 .
But at is a development of tracheseal laminae growing centripetally into the medulla ; at b " is one of the large multicellular medullary rays referred to at p. 95 ; h , base of a peripheral emergence .
X 20 .
Cabinet number , 1138 90 !
12 4 , 5 Three of the gum-canals of the middle cortex , c , of fig. 3 , further enlarged ; c , cortical cells .
Each lined with a thin layer of carbon at a , enclosing a cylindrical rod of the same at X 250 .
90 .
Plate .
Figure .
\#166 ; Page at which reference is made to the figure .
12 f\gt ; Slightly oblique , long , tangential section ( passing out of the tissue at its upper part ) of the outer cortex of a stem of Lyginodendron : f , paren- chymatous areas , corresponding to those f , f of figs. 1 and 3 ; g , g , laminae of fibrous prosenchyma , corresponding to g , g of figs. 1 and 3 ; h , h " .
numerous variously intersected peripheral emergences .
X 20 .
Cabinet number , 1144 90-91 13 7 Transverse section of a young petiole , aspera , fringed with a number of peripheral emergences , h , h , similar to those of fig. 6 .
X 20 .
Cabinet number , 1191 91 12 8 Longitudinal section of a small petiole , like fig. 7 , with its peripheral emergences , 91 13 9 Portion of the outer cortex of a transverse section of a Lyginodendron Oldliamium , showing , at h , li , an emergence resembling that at fig. 3 , , and demonstrating the origin of its outer prosenchymatous coat as an extension of the sclerous prosenchymatous bands , g , g , wdiilst its inner parenchyma , is derived from one of the parenchymatous alternating areas , f , of the outer cortex .
X 40 .
Cabinet number , 1141 91 i 13 10 Transverse section of a young branch of Lyginodendron Oldhamium , prior to its emergence from the cortex of the parent stem : a , central mass of closely aggregated tracheae ; b , investing zone of radiating , exogenously developed tracheae , otherwise similar to the central ones , a. X 30 .
Cabinet number , 1885 A .
92-95 13 :i l A similar section to , but of a somewhat older branch than , that represented in fig. 10 .
A vacant area at a , the result of the dissociation of the central mass of tracheae , fig. 10 , a , and their separation into the detached groups , a ' , a. The exogenous zone , as before , at b , b.X 30 .
Cabinet number , 1885 H .
92-95 OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
Plate .
Figure .
Page at which reference is made to the figure .
14 12 Transverse section of a still older branch , in which the separated portions of the central mass of tracheae are seen at a , a ' , whilst the vacant space left by that separation is now occupied by a parenchymatous medulla , a. X 30 .
Cabinet number , 1141 .
92 14 13 Outline representation of the central area of a yet older branch of Lyginodendron enlarged to little more than one-fourth of the scale of figs. 10 , 11 , and 12 : a , area occupied by the enlarged medulla ; inner margin of the exogenous xylem ; a , a , six clusters of tracheids corresponding to those , a , a , of fig. 12 ; a " , a " , spaces left by the further separation of the bundles ci , a. X 8 .
Cabinet number , 1128 92-96 14 14 Transverse section of a young stem or branch of Heterangium Grievii : a , large axial mass of barred tracheae , intermingled with vertical rows of parenchymatous cells , the whole constituting the vasculo-medullary axis of the plant ; , thick parenchyma- tous cortex ; e , peripheral zone of transversely intersected sclerous fibres ; a ' , bundle of tracheids passing outwards from the vasculo-medullary axis to some peripheral appendage .
X 19 .
Cabinet number , 1915H 96 14 15 Two small clusters of the tracheae of fig. 14 , a : , larger tracheae ; b , smaller tracheae , with some parenchymatous cells ; c , bands of apparently disorganised cellular tissue .
X 7 5 96 14 16 Seven cells , further enlarged , of the fibrous zone , e , e , of fig. 14 .
Each cell consists of a thick lignified wall , with a well-marked central lumen ... .
96 15 17 Longitudinal section of a stem like fig. 14 : a , vasculo-medullary axis ; b , b , inner zone of the cortex ; b ' , undulating external boundary of the zone , b ; c , outer cortical zone ; c , lenticular and indurated clusters of parenchymatous cells ; d , areas occupied .
... Plate .
Figure .
Page at which reference is made to the figure .
15 18 by parenchymatous cells with thinner walls ; e , hypodermal layer of longitudinally elongated sclerous fibres .
X 19 .
Cabinet number , 1915 . .
Small portion of a tangential section near the surface of 96 15 19 the outer cortex of a stem like fig. 14 : c , one of the lenticular masses of hardened cells like fig. 17 , c. X 19 .
Cabinet number , 1915 F Transverse section of a stem of the strobilus , Boiv- 97 15 20 manites ( Volhnannia ) Daivsoni , Will .
: a , central tracheaeal axis ; b , exogenous tracheaeal zone ; c , portion of the middle cortex .
X 55 .
Cabinet number , 1898 D Inorganic sandstone cast of a single internode of the 99 15 21 medullary cavity of a small Calamite .
Not .
size .
Cabinet number , 114 Central portion of a transverse section of a young 101 15 22 Calamite : a , inorganic substance filling the cavity of the fistular medulla ; a , remains of the medullary parenchyma ; b , b , inner angles of the tracheseal wedges composing the xylem zone .
X 25 .
Cabinet number , 1934 Transverse section of a decorticated Calamite , the 101 J whole of the medullary parenchyma of which has been absorbed , leaving the vertically elongated inner angles of the vascular wedges , b , b , projecting into the fistular cavity left by that absorption : a central mass of crystalline infiltrated calcareous material occupying the cavity ; also a similar substance , but deposited in the form of stalagmitic layers .
This inorganic matter , with its undulating peripheral outline , represents the common inorganic casts of clay or sandstone , from which all the zones of wood and cortex have disappeared , their only remains being the thin film of carbon with which these " Calamites " are usually invested ... .
102 PhPl .
Thzns.\Q90 .
H$.Plat\amp ; \2 .
0j]luvmsori .
_______------------------------------------------------------------FAs- ^ 'Williamson , Del , ryiRlUcmtson^ Phil. Trans.1890 .
Fig. 11 .
R Williamson , Del. ( WJicvmson .
fhil .
Trans.1890 , B. Pkifo l4\lt ; .
Fig. 12 .
Fig. 14 .
*ig 13Fig .
15 .
Williamson , D el .
'Whxtemas It Bass .
Photo -Zitko |lffiUcunso^ Phil. Trans.1890 .
Fig. 22 .
fWtlliams on , 3 ) el .
" Whiteman irBws .
Photo Zaa*a*

