On the Formation of Fat in the Intestines of living Animals .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. Presented by the Society for promoting the Knowledge of Animal Chemistry .
Read March 18 , 1813 .
[ Phil. T'rans .
1813 , p. 146 .
] In the course of the author 's inquiries respecting the digestive organs of different animals , he has been gradually led to suppose that the office of the colon and lower intestines in general is different from that of the upper .
In the stomach and small intestines the process of forming and separating the chyle is carried on ; but after the food has passed into the cwecum and colon , it appears to undergo a total change in its appearance and smell , with some tendency to putrefaction , that is not observable in the contents of the small intestines , and is prevented from being communicated to them by a valve that does not allow even gases to pass upwards into the small intestines .
The general construction also of the colon and cweca favours the opinion that the functions which they perform are of a different kind ; since their capacity and arrangement would occasion the passage of their contents to be more tardy than it is through the small intestines .
The smell and semi-putrescent state of these matters led to a comparison of them with animal substances buried in the ground in moist situations , which are known to be converted into adipocere , ,and suggested the possibility that the secondary digestive operation performed in the lower intestines might be the formation of fat ; and this conjecture appeared to the author to be supported by the consideration , that fat is the winter supply in dormant animals , and that these animals have a formation of intestines peculiar to themselves , in which there is no valve to distinguish the beginning of the colon , and no other impediment to the free supply of materials for the production of fat .
The author next adduces an instance of the conversion of a corpse into adipocere ( in the course of twenty-one years ) in Shoreditch churchyard ; and compares the situation of feculent matters retained in the cells of the colon with a current of more fluid matters passing over them with that of bodies buried in the neighbourhood of a common sewer ; and he enumerates various instances in which substances of a fatty nature are known to be formed in the large intestines .
Ambergris , for example , is never found excepting in the last seven feet of the intestines of the spermaceti whale .
In the human intestines also fatty concretions are sometimes found , called scybala , and these have a considerable resemblance to ambergris .
One instance of the formation of fatty concretions in the intestines appeared to have occurred in consequence of having swallowed large quantities of common olive oil .
The consistence of these is compared to that of:soft wax , and by analysis they appeared to consist of two thirds olive oil , and one third animal mucus .
A second instance is noticed , which , as well as the preceding , was observed by Dr. Babington in a child 41 years old , subject to jaundice , who has voided for some time past at intervals of ten days or a fortnight , as much as two or three ounces at a time , of a yellow oily fluid that concretes when cold .
In consequence of such instances of fat existing in considerable quantities in the lower intestines , the author endeavoured to ascertain whether it might not be found in the common contents of the colon , and preferred those from the duck as the subject of experiment .
Mr. Brand , who undertook to make this experiment for the author , divided the matter into two parts , which were kept for a week at a temperature varying from 40 ?
to 60 ?
; one in pure water , the other in extremely dilute nitrous acid .
In the former no perceptible quantity of fat was found ; but the latter yielded by this treatment about one eighth part of fat .
When a similar experiment was made on the contents of the rectum , there was no appearance of fat produced even by the action of nitric acid .
As it appeared possible that bile might perhaps assist in the conversion of animal substances into fat , the author requested Mr. Brand to try the effect of mixing muscular flesh with bile .
Human muscle when digested with water alone , at the temperature of 100 ?
, for four days , became slightly putrid without any appearance of fat ; but when digested with human bile at the same temperature it became fetid on the second day , fetid and yellow on the third , and on the fourth it had the smell of excrement , was flabby , and appeared fatty on the surface .
A second experiment on beef in the bile of the ox had the same result as the preceding .
In a third experiment made also on beef with ox-bile at the temperature of 60 ?
, there was no appearance of fat at the end of six days ; and in a fourth experiment made again at 100 ?
, there was again no appearance of grease produced by the process .
From these experiments , says the author , we learn that the bile has the power of converting animal substances into fat ; that the temperature of 1000 , or nearly so , is necessary for that process ; and that the change is produced just as putrefaction is beginning to take place .
With a view to ascertain whether the same process could be detected actually going on in the human intestines , a quantity of faeces that had been retained upwards of six days were examined by being mixed with water at the temperature of 1].000 , and allowed to cool , when a film that appeared to be of an oily nature was found on the surface .
If , then , it be admitted that the origin of fat is such as is here conceived by the author , he remarks that the wasting of the body in various disorders of the lower bowels is accounted for .
The uses of the various turns of the colon in different animals will be explained , and the origin of fatty concretions in the gall-bladder , which are so common , may be supposed to arise from the action of the bile on the mucus secreted from its coats .

