]\gt ; 1888 .
] A Class of Functional Invariants .
' A Class of Functional Invariants By A. R. sith , A. , of inity leg , eceived 1 , 1888 .
The memoir is ) the of a class of , constituted combinations of the pal.tial coefficients of a function of more than one vttriable .
As the number of dent Vrinbles is limited to for the sake of conciseness , dcHnition of all is ir is a of the } ential of a to the changed to X and , and the same is regard to the new variables , the ) on ( I ) { ran formations for iled results are gi are of phic types : ' so that \ldquo ; The racteristic properties of are\mdash ; is explic.itlyfi.ee from the variables necessarily }and q ; ( ii .
) It is homogeneous in the of is of uniform and the snmc in iations egard to each of ] ( iii ) It is s)-mmetric or skew S ith to ffel .
; It satisfios four form-equations , viz. : \mdash ; 432 A of Functional ariants .
[ Mar. 15 , . . . . . .
and two index-equations , .
:\mdash ; . . .
, in two of which is the index , an integer determinable from the form of by inspection .
In these equations and are the partial differential coefficients of the first order ; those of the second those of the order ; and so on .
An invariant is said to be proper to the rank , when the highest differential coefficicnt of occurring in it is of order .
By means of the solutions of the equations , conRidel'ed as simultaneous partial equations , and by using the equations , the following propositions relating to irreducible invariants in a single dependent variable are established:\mdash ; Invariants can be ranged in sets , each set being proper to a particular rank ; There is no invariant proper to the rank 1 , and there is one , , proper to the rank 2 ; There are three invariants proper to the rank 3 ; For every value of greater than 3 , there are invariants proper to the rank , which can be chosen so as to be linear in the differential coefficients of order invariant can be expressod in terms of this aggregato of irreducible invariants ; and the expression invariants of rank no than the order of the highest differential coefficient which occurs in that invariant .
A special class of invariants , proper to ranks in numerical succession , is given by combinations of , . . . .
where\mdash ; 1888 .
] Presents .
; .
; and the combinations are such that , when the transformations effected , the resuIting forms the same combinations of quantitics the leading coefficients of the fundamental covariallts of a binary quantic .
of the of the educible itriants i cocfficients of two depende1lt variables and ; and in particular it is shown that there is a simultaneous irreducible ' to the rank 1 , and that there are four such ianrs 1 ) per to the rank 2 .
The theory of eduction is next considered .
A number of edtlcve operators similar to are given ; an operator , to an absolute , educes another absolllte Somc ations are , itnd some esults , the of revorsor opel ations , are obtained of successive Finally it is own thnt the theory of binal forms cftn bc partly connected with the theory of nctionaJ .
The equations by , . . .
, so that these titios be regarded as a succession of binary quantics in ) ) as ; and the snnle equations characteristic of simultaneous of such lantics .
The functiontd therefore be expressed in terms of these simultaneotls concomitnnts .
Presents , Mnrch 15 , Transactions .
Batavia:\mdash ; Bataviaasch Genootschnp van Knnstell en pen .
Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal- , en Volkenkundo .
XXXII .
Aflev .
2 .
1888 .
, Mass .
:\mdash ; Harvard .
Museum of tivo .
Zoology .
Bulletin .
Vol. XIII .
No. 6 .
1887 .
Ths Museum .
Dublin:\mdash ; Royal Irish Academy .
( Polite and Antiquities ) .
Vol. II .
No. 8 .
Dibto ( Science ) .
Vol. No. 6 . .
Dubiin 1888 ; Transactions .
Vol. XXIX .
1-2 .
1887 ; " " Cunningham \ldquo ; No. 4 .

