Observations on the Measurement of three Degrees of the Meridian conducted in England by Lieut.-Col. William Mudge .
By Don Joseph Rodriguez .
Communicated by Joseph de Mendoza Rios , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 4 , 181.2 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 321 .
] After tracing the history of the several measurements that have been made from time to time in different parts of the world , the author observes , that little doubt would have remained as to the earth being flattened at the poles , had not the English measurement given an opposite result ; the degree at the northern extremity being found equal to 60,766 fathoms , while that at the southern appeared to be 60,884 .
Colonel Mudge 's estimate of the linear measure of a degree is made by dividing the number of fathoms measured in linear extent of an arc by the number of degrees and parts of a degree ascertained by observations of stars .
Don Joseph Rodriguez has followed a different course .
He assumes as data the linear extent of Col. Mudge 's base line , and the horizontal angles of his triangles ascertained by observation .
He assumes , also , that the figure and dimensions of the earth 4-136 are known by other measurements , and thence infers what ought to have been the angles ascertained by Col. Mudge 's astronomical observations .
Col. Mudge 's base in fathoms is first converted into toises , of which the logarithm is taken as the logarithm of an arc .
The radius of that arc being assumed from the supposed figure of the earth , its angular extent , its logarithmic sine , and chord , are inferred by the method of Delambre .
The horizontal angles measured are then corrected for spherical error , so as to convert the triangles into spherical triangles , the sides of which are found first as logarithmic sines , and thence the logarithmic arcs are deduced .
The azimuths of these being also known , the portions of the meridian to which they each correspond are computed both in angular and linear measure : the results are given by the author in two tables , one of which is deduced from the eastern series of triangles , and the other from the western series .
The angular extent of the -whole arc thus calculated is 2ยง 50 ' 21 f97 .
The observed angle differs from this by 1"'38 , being 20 50 ' 23 " 35 .
In making separate estimates of the two portions of this arc , that are to the north and south of the central station at Arbury Hill , he finds that the former exceeds its calculated amount by 4 " 77 ; while in the latter the calculated extent is greater than that deduced from astronomical observations by 3"'39 .
He therefore infers that the astronomical observations at Arbury Hill must be erroneous nearly to the amount of 5 " , notwithstanding the goodness of the instruments and the skill and care of the observer .
By a mode of calculation similar to the foregoing , made upon the measurement in Lapland , Don Joseph Rodriguez arrives at a result which differs only 0"`6 from that of M. Svanberg ; and by the same method , with respect to the measurement in Bengal by Major Lambton , the difference between observation and calculation is only 0'f 53 .
A portion of the French measurement between Dunkirk and Paris , similarly estimated , is not found to accord so well with the author 's calculations , which make a difference of 2 " 60 more than appeared by observation .
A similar disagreement , it is observed , was also found by M. Mechain in the very short distance between Montjui and Barcelona , the latitudes of which , as determined by a very long series of zenith distances , do not agree with the results of measurement by as much as 3"'24 .
Local attractions were supposed to be the cause of this irregularity ; and Col. Mudge also was of opinion , that the irregularities which occur in his measurements are to be ascribed to deviations of the plumb-line from local attractions .
But the author of the present communication thinks they should rather be ascribed to the observations themselves than to any extraneous source ; since the observations of different stars give results that differ more than 41 " from each other .

