]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
WILSON , Harold A.\mdash ; On the Electrical Conductivity of Flames containing Salt Phil. Trans. , , vol. 192 , pp. 499 Ionisation of fIalt Vapouus in Flames .
WILSON , Harold A. PhiL Trans. , , vol. 192 , pp. 499-828 .
Ions , velocity of , in Flames and Hot Air . .
WILSON , Harold A. Phil. Trans. , , vol. 192 , pp. Potential Fall in Flames containing Salt Vapours . .
Harold A. Phil. Trans. , , vol. 192 , pp. 499-828 .
XI .
On the Conductivity of Salt Vapours .
BOLD A. WILSON , B.Sc. ( Lond. Vic 1851 Exhibition Scholar , Cavendish Laboratory , mbridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOMSON , F.R. Received March \mdash ; Read Apri127 , 1899 .
a recent paper*on the electrical conductivity and luminosity of flames salt vapours , by Professor A. SMITHELLS , Mr. H. M. DAWSON , and the writer , the similarity between the conductivity of flames and that of gases exposed to rays was pointed out , and it was shown that the relation of the current between two electrodes in the flame to the potential difference between them could be represented by the formulae ' where current , .
between the electrodes .
I , are constants , and is defined by the second equation .
When is large , these equations become and if , then they reduce to I\mdash ; C which represents the relation between the current and P.D. for the conductivity of Rontgenised gases .
( See a paper by J. J. THOMSON and E. RUTHERFORD , 'Phil .
Mag Nov. , 1896 .
) The experiments described in the present paper were undertaken with the )ject of following up the analogy between the conductivity of salt vapours and that of Rontgenised gases , and especially of getting some information about the velocities of the ions in the flame itself The paper is divided into the following sections:\mdash ; * Abstract at ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 64 , p. 142 .
26 . .
II .
A. ON CTRICAL CONDUCTIyITY ( Description of the apparatus for producing the flame .
relation between the current and E.M.F. in the flame .
( 3 .
) The fall of potential between the electrodes .
( 4 .
) The ionisation of the salt vapour .
( 5 .
) The elative velocities of the ions in the flame .
( 6 .
) The relative velocities of the ions in hot air .
( 7 .
) Conclusion .
A of the earlier work done on this subject is given in WIEDEMANN'S ' von der Elektricitat , ' vol. B. ABRHENIUS'S paper ( ' Wied .
Ann vol. 1891 ) is referred to in our paper mentioned above .
( 1 .
) scription of the Apparatus used for Producing the Flame .
The ratus used for producing the flame was similar in principle to that used in the investigation referred to above .
Carefully regulated supplies of coal gas and air were mixed together , along with spray of salt solution , and the mixture burnt from a brass tube , centim. in diameter .
The apparatus is shown in fig. 1 .
, Water pump .
MM ' , Water manometers .
, Exit tube from G. , Mercury blow-off .
, Gas regulator .
, Second globe .
, Gasometer .
, Flame .
flask .
, Constriction .
, Wood block .
, Gouy sprayer .
, Globe containing salt solution .
The air supplied by the water pump , , partly escapes by bubbling through mercury in , and then passes into a carboy , A. From A the air passes through a flask , containing water , to the Gouy sprayer , , and its pressure is measured by the water lnal lonleter , M. The air is regulated by means of a pinch-cock , , and by OF FLAMES VAPOURS .
altering the water supply to the pump .
A very considerable in the water supply was necessary to appreciably alter the pressure indicated by the manometer , M. The air pressure used was 180 centims. of water , and it was very easily kept constant within 2 or 3 millims. , only very occasional adjustments being required for this .
The coal gas was passed through a regulator , , consisting of a ) -jar suspended in water from one arm of a balance and arranged as shown in fig. 1 , so that , when the gas in the jar attained the required pressure , the jar rose and cut off the gas supply .
After passing through this regulator the gas supply was connected with a gasometer , , which served to maintain the pressure steady .
The weights on the gasometer were adjusted so as to produce a pressure equal to that at which the regulator partly cut off the gas .
The gas was passed through a constriction , , and then allowed to mix with the air and spray from the sprayer , , in the globe , G. The pressure of the gas supply was measured on the water manometer , , by means of a cathetometer reading easily to centim. gas pressure used was centims. of water , and it was easily kept constant within centim. by occasionally altering the weights on the gasometer and in the pan of the balance .
The mixture of gas and air passed along the tube , , into a globe , , and from this into the flame tube , T. The tube , , was supported by a wider brass tube , provided at its upper end with three screws for centreing the flame tube , and fixed into an octagonal wooden block , centims. thick and 20 centims. across ( see fig. 2 ) .
A cylindrical glass shade , 15 centims. in diameter and 16 centims. high , rested in a circular groove in the block , , and on this a flat tin plate was placed , having a circular hole at its centre , 3 centims. in diameter , for the escape of the products of combustion .
Three holes , each 1 centim. in diameter , in the block admitted air to the flame , F. The flame thus obtained was steady , and measurements of its conductivity , when a particular salt solution was sprayed , did not differ more than 1 or 2 per cent. on different days .
The gas consumed by the flame amounted to 43 litres per hour .
The height of the inmer sharply-defined green cone was centim. , and that of the outer cone centims. ( 2 .
) The Relation between the Current E. Some experiments were first done on the relation between the current and in the flame .
The electrodes used each consisted of a brass disk , 14 centims. in diameter and centim. thick , having a circular hole centims. in diameter at its centre , covered with a grating of platinum wires ( see fig. 2 ) .
These two disks were each supported by three glass rods horizontally one above the other symmetrically about the axis of the flame .
Two parallel slots were cut on each side of the hole in the upper disk , and through these the platinum gauze was . .
It . .
WILSON ON THE ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITy stretched across and kept in position by two brass strips screwed down over the slots .
The was thus stretched across the under side of the upper disk .
The gauze had a mesh centim. square , with wire centim. thick .
It was found necessary to use a wider mesh for the lower electrode to allow the flame to pass easily .
The ting on the lower disk was , therefore , made by winding platinum wire between , Flame .
, Wood block .
, Flame tube .
, Electrodes .
, Upper surface of upper electrode .
, Upper surface of lower electrode .
, Quadrant electrometer .
, Commutators .
, Galvanometer .
, Voltmeter .
, Battery .
small brass pegs fixed in the upper surface of the disk .
The wires were centim. apart .
The lower electrode was connected through a galvanometer to one pole of a battery of small secondary cells , and the upper electrode was connected to the other pole .
The flame tube was also connected to the same pole of the battery as the lower electrode .
The potential difference between the two electrodes could be measured by means of a multicellular electrostatic voltmeter when it was above 250 volts .
OF FLAMES CONTAININ SALT 5 03 circular patch at the centre of the grating on each was heated by the flame .
The lower electrode was nearly white hot usually , and the upper red hot , more less , according to its position .
Diagram No. 1 shows the relation between the current and E.M.F. when a normal solution of potassium carbonate was sprayed for four positions of the upper electrode , which was charged positively , the lower electrode being in the same position in each case , centims. above the flame tube .
No. 1 .
It will be observed that as the distance between the electrodes is increased , the E.M.F. necessary to produce approximate satul.ation increases very rapidly , but the satul'ation value of the current , where it is actually eached , is independent of the position of the upper or positive electrode .
Diagram No. 2 shows the relation between the current with 200 cells the distance between the electrodes , the electrode being kept fixed and atively charged as before .
gram No. 2 .
The off rrent as the upper electrode is ralsed is very to 6 centims. distance .
Up to 3 centims. distance the .
the ) remained sensibly constant , but ) this distance it became as the electrude was raised higher in centiJns .
distance it ) red H. A. WILSON ON THE CTRICAL CONDUCTIVITy at the centre , but it remained visibly hot even at 9 or 10 centims. above the lower electrode .
It appeared probable that the cooling of the upper electrode might affect the observed current , and to test this point an electrode was constructed similar to already described , but so arranged that the grating of platinum wires could be heated by passing an electric current through it .
The grating was insulated by of Jnica , and the battery used to heat up the grating was insulated , and one end of the grating wire cted to the brass disk supporting it .
It was found that when the upper electrode was kept at a bright red heat in this way the current , with cells , was independent of the position of the upper electrode up to 8 centims. above the lower electrode .
The following table gives some of the numbers obtained with 200 cells .
No. 3 shows the change in the relation of the current to the E.M.F. when the upper electrode is heated in this way .
Diagram No. 3 .
Thus it appears that keeping the upper electrode hot enables the current to attain its turation value with a much smaller E.M.F. than is necessary when the electrode is not specially heated .
Diagram No. 4 shows the relation between the current and E.M.F. for several positions of the upper electrode when this is negatively charged , the lower electrode bein in the same position in each case as before .
OF SALT In this case , in which the positive or lower electrode is hottel ' the electrode , the current does not show much sign of a the E.M.F. is eased .
To see whether this ) ends on the relative ) ositions of the electrodes with refel.ence to the ectio of motion of the flane ases , the .
electrode was fixed very lleal ' the base of the , so that it less than the upper electrode .
It was then found that when the lower electrode , the current became neal .
lie saturated with about 1.00 cells , wherens when the .
electrode was negative , the showed no of ) Thus the saturation of the rent depellck on the temlJel.atul.es of the nd not on the motion of the flame gases .
Diagram No. 5 shows the relation betweell the current al1 E. .F .
distance between the odes w centim. , the lower ) ) ' hotter the uppel electrode .
No. 5 .
' When the E.M.F. is lesFi volts curves those obtained when the electrodes were distances a{ , but 's the current with the lower ) increases ) idly the than that the tive .
] these ) ) except those in which the upper by , the heated surface on the upper was ably g lower electrode , owing to the upper electrode being of finel the electrode , but the lower , usually to ) ) 1If .
ON ON THI CONDUCTIVITy the eltode , because , to its wider mesh , it lost heat less readily by conduction to the disk it .
the relation between the current and the distance between electrodes w the lower electrode is positive and kept fixed for an E.M.F. of 70 volts per centim. of distance between the odes .
The current was always gl.eatel .
when the hotter was negative than when it was positive , except when the electrodes were very near together , so that a very electromotive intensity could be applied .
The table gives some of the currents observed showing this : of the esults dibed in this section of the is discussed in Section 7 .
( 3 .
) Fall of Potential the mine the fivll of potential along the flame between the odes , a horizontal platinum wire was put in the flame , and its potential measured either by neitlS of by it through to a OF FLAIsIES point on the battery used to charge the electrodes and djusting the position of the wire until no current passed through the galvanolneter .
The wire and connections with the electrometer are shown in fig. 2 .
The wire took up the potential of the flame very quickly , so that even if it was connected to a high resistnuce its potential not affected apprecinbly .
The wns always kept as nearly possible so as to ) roug the axis of the ; if this was not done the potential CUl.ves obtained were altered , although .
general Diagram No. 7 shows some of the esults obtained when t electrodes vere .
apart , the upper electrode being ] ) salt solution sprayed a rubidium chloride solution .
In this case , in both of the electrodes were red hot , the of potential between the electrodes is very similal to that observed in gases at low pressures .
Near each electrode there is a rapid fall of potential and in the ing space an approxinlately uniform small potential gradient .
This is approximately ) to the potential ference bveen todes variation of the drop of potential at the .
electrode the etween t electrodes can be by 0 .
TI DUCTIVITY where 1 is the D. betweell the electrodes expressed in terms of the .
per cell ) .
When is less about 5 the drop at the negative electrode is zero .
The following table shows this : ve drop ) served .
No. 8 two curyes electrodes 5 centims. apart , still in same ) osition as before .
No. 8 .
In this case the drop of potential at the lower negative electrode did not become until about 60 cells were used .
Moving up the upper electrode to the parts of the flame rapidly increased the P.D. at which the negative drop .
Thus centi1ns .
above the lower electrode there was no negative even when 4 cells were used .
When the upper electrode was charged negatively the character of the potential curves completely changed .
In this case nearly all the fall of potential occurred near to the upper ative electrode .
Diagram No. 9 shows two curves got with the odes 5 centims. apart .
and 11 each show two curves , one with the upper electrode positively and the other with it negatively charged .
OF CONTAINING SALT No. 9 .
No. 10 .
No. 11 .
( 4 .
) the ABRHLNIUS ( ' Wied .
Ann. , ' 42 , p. 18 , 1891 ) concluded fro ] ] the results of his experiments that the conductivity of salt pours in flames is due to partial ionisation of the salt by the high telnperature of the flame , and that the conductivity of a flame containing a salt vapour is very analogous to the conductivity of an aqueous solution of the salt .
In our paper referred to above we have not seen any reason to the general of ARRHENIUS ' conclusions .
are , however , a number of important facts which do not readily lend themselves to explanation by the hypothesis just mentioned .
The phenomena of unipolar conduction are among these .
HrTTORF ( see ' vol. B ) showed that the current depends greatly on the negative and that it is greater when a bead of salt in the flame is near the negative electrode than when it is near the positive electrode , and he concluded that all the resistance to the passage of the current is at or near to the surface of the negative electrode , at any rate in the case of flames free from salt vapour .
The experiments of ARRHENIUS and those described in our paper to above , in which the current between two electrodes very near together in the was measured , were not adapted for the examination of unipolar and allied phenomena , and it was sufficient , in considering the results obtained , to ) the conductivity due to ionisation of the salt vapoul , without making any there hypothesis as to exactly how and where the ionisation .
At the tinle , it was more or less tacitly assumed that the salt vapour is ionised hout the volume of the flame , just as a salt is ionised in an aqueous solution .
I have concluded , from the results described in this ) , that the ionisntion ) the salt takes place entirely , or very nearly so , the SUl.face of the ) tinum electrodes , and not oughout the vohnne of the inlents dibed above on the variation of the current with the distance between the odes , that when the two electrodes are both kept hot , the rent is independent of the distance between the electrodes , ereas if salt ionised hout the flame , the current should haVe increased with the distance between the electrodes .
To test this more completely , two electrodes of platinum foil , centim. square , were supported opposite one another in the flame so that the distance between could be easily varied .
The salt solution sprayed ormal rubidium chloride solution .
With this arrangement it was found potential difference of 800 volts between the electrodes , lmoving the ositive electrode did not affect the current between the electrodes unless it was lnoyed so near to the side of the flame that it became comparatively cool , in which case current was ninished .
Moving the negative electrode usually affected the cul.rent , the current being greater the hotter the electrode appeared .
If the negative electrode was placed bout the axis of the flame , then it could be moved several lnillimetres eithel without appreciably affecting the current , but the effect of it neal the sides of the flame was to diminish the current , this effect being much more marked than in the case of the positive electrode .
The amount of salt vapour passing between the electrodes is roughly proportional to the distance between them , so that since the potential difference used was fully enough to approximately saturate the gas , the current should have increased with the distance between the if the ionisation took )lace throughout the volulne of the flame .
If the two platinum electrodesjust described were placed one on each side of the flame , just far enough from it not to be visibly heated , and about half-way up the flame , only a very small current could be passed between them , even when an E.M.F. of 400 volts was applied .
This current , moreover , was only slightly increased when the flame was filled with a salt vapour .
The following are the currents observed in one case with 45 yolts E.M.F. :\mdash ; ( 1 .
) Both electrodes just outside the flame and not visibly hot .
Distance between the electrodes centims.\mdash ; Current without salt . . . . .
3 divisions .
Current with . . . . .
12 ( 2 .
) Both electrodes just the flame and red hot .
Distance between the electrodes 2 centims.\mdash ; Current without salt . . . . . .
18 divisions .
Current with . . . . . .
610 It is clear that the heating of the electrodes enormously increases the available conductivity , exactly as though the ionisation did not take place unless the electrodes were red hot .
There is , nevertheless , a very small amount of conductivity even when cold electrodes are used , as has been known for a long time .
This is no doubt due to a small amount of ionisation really taking place throughout the volume of the flame , both in case of the flame gases and of the salt vapour .
OF SALT .51 I This conductivity is , howevel , only a minute of that which is ) when the electl.odes are both hot enough to glow .
If one electrode only is , then the current is much greater than when both are cold , but is still with that obtained when both are hot .
The explanation of this is considered in Section 7 .
If a piece of platinum foil is put in the flame midway two when both are just outside the flame not visibly hot , then th current is greatly incl.eased , showing that the of the glowing bless i to take place .
The following ents w observed with E.M.F. of volts and ( 1 .
) Both odes not visibly hot .
Current 12 divisions .
( 2 .
) With a piece of platinum foil in the ) between the electrodes and insulated .
Current 40 divisions .
( 3 .
) Foil collnected to earth .
rent 4 divisions .
The great ease i the o11 connectiug the foil to earth } ) to be due to the much greater ease with which an electrode in the flalne loses negative cation than positive .
This causes the foil when to be ) to nearly the same potential as the positive electrode , which inishes the current .
The explanation of this will be considered Section 7 .
The effect of putting a small of salt ) electrodes also the flame being wise free from salt .
It was found if the salt only canle in colltact with the positive electrode , then the increase in the CUl.rent due to the salt very small , whel.eas if the salt } ) in with the tive electrode the CUl.rent was greatly .
If the salt ) ) assed b the odes without colYling contact with either , then the ent was not all .
The following numbers obtained a bead of ssium crbonate : Flame without salt .
divisions .
( 2 .
) Salt ) positive .
Current 60 divisions .
( 3 .
) Salt vapou on llegative electrode .
divisions .
It is clear this that unless the salt actually comes into contact the glowing , the conductivity of the flame is llot aHected by its 1 ) ] esence .
( Wied .
Ann vol. 17 , p. 517 , 1882 ) showed tlJat w of electrodes one aboye the other the f salt , 01 in the gases im mediately ) the , then applying E.M.F. the diminishes the conductivity between the ) videl to the removal of ions from the stream of by the ) ] odes , ctlld should , the case of the conductivity of the ) if is of the the volume the of vere allged as shown in fig. 3 .
) glass plate be fixed .
II .
A. ON ON THF ICAL CUCTIVITY any bove the lower .
The battery and galvanometer connected with the upper were insulated so that the electrodes took up the potential of the flame .
It found applying an .
to the lower electrodes affected the current the uppel little , if at , in the case of the conductivity due , Upper electrodes .
, Lower electrodes .
) esuppol'ting upper odes .
to a salt vapour .
With a normal solution of potassium carbonate the following curl.ents were obtained ; the upper electrodes being about 3 centims. above the lower :\mdash ; ( 1 .
) No E.M.F. on the lower pair\mdash ; Current between the upper pair 66 divisions .
( 2 .
) 360 volts on the lower Current between the upper pair 65 With 700 volts on the : the cul.rent between the upper pair was slightly increased or diminished , according to the direction of the current between the lower pair , showing that upper pair took up some of the current the lower electrodes .
This effect became less as the distance between the two pairs was increased .
OF FLAblES CONTAINTNG SALT VAPOURS .
5 13 The results of this experiment therefore ] ] with the view that the of the salt takes ) ) the surface the electrodes .
Anothel ) eriment in of view .
The two of platinum fixed ) ) centims. apart in the flame .
A of potassium ) nate o other salt was then held in the flame between the two electrodes so that the salt ) only in contact with the uppel .
It was that the cllnost ident of the height of the above the , unless it was brought so .
to the lower that the salt from the bead came into the glowing platinum , when all ease in current between the odes o which was very if the lower electl.ode was negyged .
The following ents were obtained with a bead of lithium and potential ence of 380 volts : ( 1 .
) Bead leal .
lower electrode\mdash ; Current with lowel electrode negative divisions .
positive .
, , \ldquo ; Bead .
above lowel Current with lower llegative divisions .
positive .
, , , , ( 3 .
) Bead 1 centim. above lower electrode\mdash ; rent with lowel ' electrode negative divisions .
positive .
, , , To further test the view that the salt vapour is not ised in the flame , except at the surface of the odes , the collductivity of the flame alone yely ting currents was compared with that of the flame ing salt vapour by the ibed by J. J. THOMSON ( ' idge Phil. The outer tings of two Leyden j were connected t two of wire , each consisting of five 0 six of the innel were charged by nshurst n ) ; so that when the the inner were allowed to discharge to each ) apid electrical tions passed through the two coils .
An electrodeless discharge bulb ) omine vapoul placed in one of the coils rved to indicate , by the intensity the light from its discharge , the absorption of conductor was placed in the other coil .
With this rangenlent the collductivity of a large Bunsen could be distinctly detected , but the introduction of salt into the flalne produced little or no effect , although enough salt was introduced to have increased the ent between two electrodes in the flame by several dred times .
VOL. CXCII .
MR. H. A. WILSON ON THE LECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY It thus appears that nearly all the ionisation of the salt vapour , to which the nductivity of the is due , takes place at the surfaces of the glowing electrodes , thon electrodes certainly colder than the flame gases .
If we regard a lolecnle of the salt as of ) ppositely-charged ions or electrons held together the ractions 1 ) their arges , then , when the very near to a conduct like the electrode in the flame , the induced charges on the conductor ions the molecule may enable it to ised , even while t lnolecules near the electrodes quite stable , though a higher temperature .
( 5 .
) Relatire Velocities of the Ions in the in the current ough flame depends on the temperature of the negative electrode indicates that the part ) laid by the negative ions in carrying the is more ) that ayed by the positive ions .
This fact , and the results obtained investigating the fall of potential between the electrodes , suggested the idea at the velocity of the negative ions , due to a given potential gradient , is much larger than the corresponding velocity of the positive ions .
To tes chis , experiments were made in which the potential difference between the and lower electrodes necessal.y to cause positive or negative ions to move down the flame against the upward stream of gases was determined .
The apparatus used for this purpose is shown in fig. 4 .
AA , of , screen ave lower electrode .
A of salt was put in the between electrodes , and the current from the lower electrode measured .
It was found that when the upper electrode was positive , introducing the bead caused no ease in the current unless the potential between the odes was greater than 100 volts , when the electrodes OF ALT were 5 centims. apart .
When the upper electrode was tive , other conditions being the , the current increased on introducing the bead , even with a potential difference of 1 or 2 volts .
To preyent any ions reaching the lower by passing the sides of the flame where the velocity of the blast is , a screen , PP , placed above the lower electrode .
The hole in the } } of screen was 2 centims. in diameter , it was ) } also passed through the round the rati n. on } lower was bent so it was only 2 or 3 millims. screen .
No. 12 shows the results obtained with a of gram No. 12 .
It will be obsel.ved that the troduction of the bead produced no increase in the current when the upper electrode was positive until a .
F. was applied .
It was possible to deterlnine this E.M.F. uhin about 5 volts certainty with salts of Cs , and K. With salts of sodium and lithium the alnount of current obtained was small with the current through the flame without salt , which made it impossible to determine the necessary .
with any approach to accuracy .
The following table gives ults obonates of the alkali metals for the positive Caesium .
Rubidium Sodium .
Lithium 104 yolts .
to 110 90 to 100 The F.M.F. between the electrodes 5 centims. apart required to cause the ) ositi v ions of the carlJonates of , Rb , , Na , and Li to nlove down ainst the blast of the Ham is volts , so that the positive ions of these salts have nearly the same velocity due the slope of potential in the .
With of the chlorides of the metals the same result appeared to , but the much greater volatility of the ides made it difficult to obtain satisfactory results .
To the velocity of the positive ion due to a potential gradient of 1 volt .
with the velocity of the , it is necessary to know the potential radiant between the electrodes when the P.D. is just enough to make the ions go the flame .
No. 1:3 shows of potential in the flame without salt when this is the case with .
of 107 volts betwee1l the electrodes 5 centims. apart , the upper electrode being positive .
Diagr .
No. 13 .
The smallest potential gradient on this curve is volts per centim. , which is , therefore , the gradient necessary to make the positive ions of the alkali metal salts move against the gases of the flame .
The mean velocity of the lnixture and in the tube leading to the flame was pproximately 2 .
per second , as determined from the volumes of gas and air supplied to the appal.atus .
On entering the flame the gases of course expand very greatly , but the effect of this expansion is probably not great on the upward velocity of the gases , since the flame is free to expand laterally .
Taking the velocity of the gases in the flame as 206 centims. second , the velocity of the positive ions in the flame due to a potential gradient of 1 volt per centiln .
is therefore In , the P.D. necessary to l1lake the negative ions move down against the flame gases , a long wire through which a was passing was used to supply the potential differences ired .
No. 14 shows the results obtained with a bead of Na .
, When the .
is less than 1 volt , there is a small current opposed to the applied E.M.F. At about 1 volt the current with the bead suddenly begins to crease rapidly , with the E.M.F. indicating that the negative ions have begun to go against the blast of the flame .
OF The explanation of small inverse current when the E.M.F. is small is not easy .
It )eased b the ction of the ) duc to some salt round to lower ) the circulation of the the electrodes .
presence of } , to bring the ative i ) ) ) ) ctly , it varied the of , of The .
and doid saits of any alk.ali ) gradient to this as volt centin ) .
ives f the velocity of the tive i to 1 volt per centim. which is 17 times the velocity of the positive ions .
Dingram No. 14 .
Another method of velocities of the tried .
) electrodes of platinum foil were fixed opposite each othel in the flame , about centim. apart , electrode being .
square .
A bead of salt held just below one of these , so that the salt vapour only came into contact with this electrode which was connected to earth .
The cther electrode was charged , and any leak from it measured by the galvanometer .
It was found that the not increased by the presence of the bead of salt unless the E.M.F. used was greater than a definite amount , which was much greater when the was tively charged than it was positively charged .
This 1lecesslly for current to increase when the salt is introduced is that to the ions from one electrode to the other , across tITe blast of the fases .
} ) ' from the bead rapidly spreads out in the flame , so less the rged electrode was placed near the of the , the pour c in contact }yith both elec .
H. A. THE LLECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY trodes , in which case the current was increased by the presence of the salt even with very small E.M.F. It is difficult to form any nate of the velocities from this experiment , because the must spread out the electrode at which they start by mere diffusion , will the velocity ppear too great .
The fall of ential between the electlodes also is Ilot uniform , and cannot be determined conveniently when the ctrodes so near etherc .
, the results obtained were of the same order of itude as those obtained the method described above .
When the electrode was charged an E.M.F. of volt was enough to increase the current when the salt vapour was introduced .
This gives for the velocity of the negative ions 1200 If the positively-charged electrode was placed outside the flame , then the E.M.F. necessary for the current to increase when the salt vapour introduced at the other electrode was much greater than before .
The following numbers show this .
The electrodes were kept at the same distance apart , centim. in each case .
( 1 .
) .
required when both electrodes were in the flame volt .
( 2 .
) E.M.F. required when the charged electrode was at the side of the flalne , so as to be only just very slightly red hot volt .
( 3 .
) .
required when the charged electrode was outside the flame . . . . .
volts .
The tion of this increase in the necessary E.M.F. can be readily seen by considering the results of the observations on the fall of potential between the two electrodes when one is much colder than the other .
In such a case nearly all the fall of potential occurs near the cold electrode , so that the potential gradient available for ging across the ions at the hot electrode is very greatly diminished .
A third estimate of the velocity of the ative ions was obtained by diverting the current between two electrodes , one above the other , in the flame by means of a pair of arged electrodes placed outside the flame .
Two small platinum electrodes were fixed one above the other in the flame , and 3 centims. apart .
The two platinum foil electrodes already described were placed one on each side of the flame , and on a level with the lower of the small electrodes .
The lower small electrode was put to earth and the upper one charged positively to of a volt , and the current from it measured .
The two large electrodes were then charged positively , when it was found that the current observed was diminished and reyersed if they were charged to more than volt .
Since the observed current was probably mainly carried by negative ions moving upwards with the blast , because the E.M.F. used was not enough to drag any positive ions , the stoppage of the current on charging the large electrodes must have been due to the negative ions being dragged across from the lower small electrode to the large electrodes .
These latter were 2 centims. apart , OF FLAMES CONTAINING SALT so that the potential gradient between them and the lower small electrode was anyhow less than volt . .
centim. .
This ives for velocity of the negative ions , that they vellod f the lower small electrode to the tops of the larger electrodes , which were up and centim. distant horizontally , This result quite estimates made of the velocity of the llegative to rradient of 1 volt per centim. To compare the velocities of the ions of ements year made of the .F .
to them in the flame to one placed opposite to it , but outside ) .
As I already ]nelltioned , this E.M.F. increases rapidly ils the distance the outside electrode the flame is increased .
By it about centim. from the ) of the flame the E.M.F. necessary was to about volts .
This necessary E.M.F. was determined for the following salts , KCL , NaCL , Li , and found in every case to lie between 12 and 13 volts .
Thus it appears that the velocity of the negative ions is independent of the natul.e of the salt which they derived in the flame .
( 6 .
) The yelocities of the in Hot Air .
The experimental difficulties in the deterlninations of the velocities of the ions in the flame described above prevented anything more than rough estimations of the respective relative velocities being obtained .
I , therefore , endeavoured to devise a method in which the conditions of the experiments should be simplel and more unldel control .
It is clear that the gases of a flame , when this is kept in ( steady state as possible , are not a very suitable for accurate work .
1 , efore , treating the electl.odes by means of electric reIlts passing ough bheIn , and put salt on one or both electrodes .
Aflel trials , tvith ious f ratus , this method was abandolled , owing to difficulty of getting .
between the electrodes sufficiently hot to keep the salt } ) condensing .
A new apparatus was now const ] ucted , in a of very ) replaced the flaIlle in the ) already ) .
The water ) atus , eady d , were used to ) ] the .
The air was heated by ssing it through a tube , 50 centims. .
in neter , maintained at a bright red heat in a Fletcher 's -tube furllace .
The stream of hot air so obtained would heat a platinum wire red hot 5 or 6 cclltinls .
from the end of the tube .
To prevent the furnace gases getting into the air the end of the tube , a plane flange of platinum , centims. in diameter , was fitted to the end of the tube .
.520 .
H. A. WILSON THE CTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY 5 the esselltial parts of the for getting the velocity of the in the is the ) .
An electrode , , consisting of a ating of es , .
in diameter and 2 nillims .
apart , W0U1ld on pegs in a brass disk , centims. in diametel , was placed ) osite to the flange , the stream of hot .
kept hot .
could be charged up by means of so an field between A and F. A of the to be ated midway between A and in the hot , and was ) by a ) wire held by a glass tube , B. An electrode , , was also oduced into the stream of hot air as near the mouth of the tube ) ossible .
) nsisted simply of a ring of fine platinum wire in a glass tube , which insulated the leading to the ring .
electrode was connected to a of 11,000 ohms resistance , and ough this to the platinum tube , which was also connected to " " earth The bead of salt was slowly volatilised in the current of hot air its vapour passed through the ating .
On the hot grating some of it was ionised , and if the electric field betweell the the ring electrode and was strong enough , some of the ions moved against the blast of air to the rin electrode , so producing a current which was indicated by the galvanometer .
It was thus to the P.D. necessary to make the ions move against the blast of hot air exactly in the same way as was done in the flame .
If the velocity of the blast and the potential gradient corresponding to this necessary P.D. were known , the bsolute velocity of the ions could be at once calculated , but , unfortuOF FLAIsIES CONTAINING SALT nately , it is not possible to get anything more than .
these quantities .
All that was attempted , , was to mine the } P. ) 's for various ions under the same conditions .
This ives the relative values of velocities in the hot air .
The following diagrallu s the tion of the rent w the platinum flange the grating electrode were 1 centin1 .
, the positively charged with beads of KI and Diagram No. It will be observed that in each case the current is zero a P.l ) .
of ) volts .
is reached , when it increases nearly ulliformly with the P.D. Other conditions relnaining the same , the .
should directly as the distance between the electrodes .
Actually it was that the necessaly P. ) .
increased more apidly than the distance , except when this was less than bout centim. Below centim. distance , the distance between ) electrodes .
Thus the folloving results obtained with a bead : DistaIlcc betwoen Electrodes .
oentims .
With other similar results obtained .
most of the the grating and the flallge were kept 1 centim. The eHect of varying the velocity of the ] also ) , for small variations of the velocity not greater than 20 per cent. of its value , the necessary P.D. varied directly as the velocity of the blast .
blaast be increased more than about 20 per cent. with the atus available .
For diminuV0L .
CXC11 . .
3 tions the velocity of the blast greater than 20 per cent. , the necessary P.D. inished more rapidly than the velocity of the blast .
This was probably due to the ects of accidental air currents and diffusion , which , of course , become more the blast of air is made less rapid .
If the velocity of the blast was reduced to mnch less than one-half its usual value , the grating did not become hot at practically no current at all could be obtained .
Any change in the temperature of the platinum tube produce a change in the nount of current obtained with any given P.D. , and also changed the value of the least P. I ) .
to give an ppreciable current .
The and air plies to the gas nace were therefore carefully regulated by atus adready described producin a steady flame .
In this way the of the tube could be maintained sufficiently constant for any length of time .
Increasing the tenlperatul.e increased the amount of current obtained , and diminished the least necessary P.D. ince , however , altel.ing the temperature of the tube alters so many of the other conditions of the expel.iments , such as the velocity of the air blast and the rate of volatilisation of the salt bead , it is very difficult to interpret the meaning of this last result .
Consequently in all the experiments the temperature of the tube was kept as nearly as possible the same .
accuracy with which the ecessary P.D. could be mined varied with the distance between the odes and with the temperature of the tube .
If the odes w too together , a was obtained with any P.D. , however Sllall .
the telhl ) diminished the least distance at which satisfactory results could be obtained .
Finally , a distance of 1 centim. between the electrodes and a definite supply of air to the furnace to the tube adopted , as giving the best results .
The P.D. necessary to produce an appreciable current could be determined within 1 volt in any one experiment , and the results of different expel.iments with the same salt usually agreed within the same limit .
Occasionally larger discrepancies than this occurred , which , howeyer , could generally be traced to some accidental circumstance affecting the supply of gas or air to the ful.nace .
amount of current with ally one salt depended much less than might ected on the size of the bead used .
With some very volatile salts such as about 3 .
in diameter only lasted two or three minutes , yet during nearly this time the current with a given .
remained very nearly constant and only began to fall off when the bead had almost disappeared .
This , of course , greatly cilitated the Ilts , since it was not necessary to keep the bead vely in a series of determinations of the current with different P.D. OF CONTAINING SALT yAPOURS .
The rate at which the current increased with the P.D. after the least necessary P.D. was reached varied greatly with different salts , and with the sig of the on the .
In general , the salt which was the more volatile gave greater rate of increase of current with P.D. The rate of of current with ] P. ) .
also usually greater when the grating was negatively arged t it positively charged .
When the .
was it found that the P.D. at which the current began to increase with the P.D. between the electrodes , other conditions remaining unchanged , approximately volts for nll the salts tried , :\mdash ; NaOH , NaCL , LiCL , RbCL , CsCL , The following salts were also tried , but lthough they gave a large mount of current , it was so unsteady and lasted such a short time , to the decolnpositio of the salt , that no definite esults could be ined :FeCL ) .
When the was positively , the least necessary P.D. } approximately 25 volts with each of the salts of Li , Na , , and Cs mentioned above , and very approximately 48 volts for each of the salts of Ca , Sr , and The mean velocity of the air blast was estimated to be , which gives for the velocities of the ions due to one volt per centim. the following values : Negative ions 26 centilns .
( 2 .
) Positive ions of salts of Li , Na , , Rb , and Cs ( 3 .
) Positive ions of salts of Ba , Sr , and Ca. Only the relative value of these velocities has any pretensions to accuracy .
As already explained , it was not found possible to obtain more tham the ' magnitude of the absolute velocities .
The result obtained for the velocities of the ions in the flame , the negative have the same velocity , likewise the positive ions of salts of Li , Rb , and Cs , was thus to hold good also in hot air .
The velocities in the hot air are much smaller those in the } .
The values given for the velocities in the hot air were obtained by ssulning the of ) between the grating and the ring electrodes to be uniform .
Since ) cally no curl.ent between them up to the least necessary P.D. , cannot be very far from correct ; still , any departure from a uniform would cause the values given to be too small .
Since the salt vapour is not ionised till it reachcs the hot , there no ions ) and unless the ioItS go gainst the ] .
IT .
ON ELECTRICAL CONDUCTIVITY this source of into account , it is still clear that the velocities in the very much greater than tbose in ) hot air .
The average temperature of be taken as 2000o C. , whilst that of the hot air was nearly C. ; consequently , if the size ion is supposed to be independent of the , the velocity of the ions in the flame should have been about double that air .
Actually the negative ions were found to move forty times quicker in the in the hot air .
The esults oined by for the velocities of the ions in the hot es from flames appear to bear on this point .
He found that the velocity of the ions rapidly rliminished a the distance from the flame was increased , and this inte to " " a tion on the charged carrier of some uncharged body increasing its mass The theoretical velocity an ion supposed to be one carrying the same ion does in solutions , can be calculated by means of the formula where is the velocity of the ion , the coefficient of interdiffusion of the ions and the gas , the mass of an ion , the charge on it , X the lnotive intensity , the quotient of pressure by density for the ions .
This gives for the velocity of an ion of molecular weight 32 in air at the ordinary telnl)eratue about 40 centims. per second .
At a temperature of 2000o C. , its velocity would be 300 centims. per second , and at 3000o C. , about 400 centims. per second .
The velocity of the negative ions in the flame , 1000 centims. per second , is , therefore , of the same order of magnitude as the theoretical velocity of an ion consisting of one atom .
All the other velocities are less than this , which indicates that the ions consist of clusters of atoms , that is , assuIning that they carry the same charge as the ions in electrolysis of solutions .
This result is in agreement with those of RFORD on the velocities of the ions in Rontgen ray and uranium ray conductivity , and of on the velocities of the ions in the hot gases coming from flames .
The size of this cluster appears to be much greater in the case of positivelycharged ions than in the case of negatively-charged ions .
ZELENY ( ' Phil. Mag July , ) has shown that the velocity of the negative ions produced in gases by ' Phil. ' July , 1898 .
J. J. it .
Assoc. cport , ' 1894 , , " " Diffnsion 'Encyclopaedia , ' Phil. Mag Nov. , 1897 .
OF FLAMFS SALT yAPOURS .
Rontgen rays is greater than that of the positive ions in air by about 25 per cent. has found the same thing for the ions in the gases coming from flames , and RUTHERFORD has shown that the same result holds good for the ions ) roduced by uranium radiation .
In the flame the negative ions of alkali salt vapours move 17 times as fast as the positive ions , and in air at 1000c C. times faster with alkali salts , and 7 times faster with salts of Ba , Sr , and Ca. It seems to suppose that since the ions in each of the three classes , .
: 1 ative ions , 2 Positive ions of alkali lnetal salts , 3 Positive ions of Ba , Sr and Ca salts , have equal velocities , they are equal clusters of atoms .
It thus appears that ions which in solutions equal charges , have equal velocities in the gaseous state .
This points to the conclusion that the size of the cluster of atolns formin a gaseous ion , depends , at a given temperature , only on the charge on the ion .
Those ions , therefore , which have equal charges , have also equal velocities in the same medium .
( 7 .
) Conclusion .
Since the ionisation on which the conductivity of the salt vapour depends takes place entirely at the surfaces of the glowin electrodes , there is therefore at the surfaces a thin layer in which very rapid ionisation and recombination are goin on .
The number of ions dragged out from the surface of an electrode will depend on the slope of potential at the surface , and if this is great enough to drag out all the ions of one sort before they can recombine the current will be as great as possible .
Owing to the much greater velocity of the negative ions they will be far easily dragged out than the positive ions , so that unless the slope of potential is great enough to drag out all of either kind of ions , the current from an with a given slope of potential at it will be greater when the electrode is negatively charged than when it is positively charged .
Consider the case in which one electrode is white hot and the other comparatively cool , so that little or no ionisation occurs at it .
In this case only one kind of ions will be present in the space between the electrodes , , those of the same .
as the hot electrode , so that there will be a charge in the gas which will diminish the slope of potential near the hot electrode and increase it near the cool electrode .
The experimentally-determined slopes of potential with one electrode cool show this effect very clearly .
In this case , in which the fall of potential is nearly all at the cold electrode , the smallness of the potential gradient at the hot electrode is not to the attainment of the saturation value of the current , and the current curyes consequently continue slope up , even with the greatest E.M.F. that ] be applied .
If the electrodes are connected to the galvanometer simply without any battery , there is deflection indicating a current from the colder electrode to the hotter ough the flame .
This is easily explained by supposing that some of the negative ions at the electrode diffuse out , owing to their high velocity leavin an excess of sitive behind .
The blast of the flame will assist this action by blowing away the ions as soon as they get away from the surface of the electrode .
Accordin to this the hotter electrode loses more negative ions than the colder , since there are more ions formed at it .
In the same way a wire immersed in the flame becomes positively charged .
This action is almost exactly analogous to the chargin of a polished zinc plate , when ultra-violet light falls on it , described by HALLWACHS , RIGHI , and others .
If both the electrodes are hot enough to produce ionisation , and if the fall of potential at the upper electrode is great enough to make the ions from it come down against the blast , then there will be both sorts of ions present in the space between the electrodes , which will modify the fall of potential .
Since the positive ions move so much more slowly than the negative ions , they remain in the gas much longer and so have a greater effect on the fall of potential ; consequently the fall of potential is much greater at the negative electrode than at the positive electrode .
The great velocity of the negative ions enables a much smaller slope of potential to drag them out than is required to drag out the positive ions , so that unless the E.M.F. applied is very great the current is mainly carried by the negative ions .
These points are very well illustrated by the experiments described above , on the effect of specially heating the upper electrode when it is positive .
When it is heated the positive ions coming from it transfer the fall of potential from the positive electrode to the negative electrode , so that all the negative ions there are dragged out and the current attains its saturation value as far as the negative ions are concerned .
If the positive electrode only is hot then the positive ions moving across will cause all the fall of potential nearly to be at the negative electrode , and owing to their small velocity this effect will be more complete than when the negative ions alone are present .
Owing to this , and to the greater difficulty of dragging out the slow positive ions from the electrode , the current , when the positive electrode is hot , will be much smaller than when the negative electrode is hot .
In this way it is easy to explain all the phenomena of unipolar conduction .
In the case where both electrodes are hot , the fall of potential being mostly at the negative electrode , the current due to the negative ions attains its saturation value at a comparatively small E.M.F. , but the current carried by the positive ions continues to increase nearly uniformly with the E.M.F. According to this then , in the equations OF FLAMLS CONTAINING SALT , I is the maximum current carried by the tive ions the negative electrode , ( is the current due to ) ositive ions , is still its tion value .
If is great , the current due to the ions should also become saturated , with very high E.M. it is found that the current increases less rapidly with the E.M.F. than the epresents .
The equation was ally obtained for the conductivity of Routgenised gases in which most of the ionisation takes place throughout the volume of the gas .
In this case is the constant in the equation ' representating the rate of recombination of the ious , is the distance between the odes , the carried by ion , and the sum of the velocities of the positive and negative ions under electromotive intellsity of one volt .
centim. When the ionisation takes place at the of the electrodes , the above fnification holds , the that the equation can still repl.esent the observed relation between the current and E.M.F. shows that the general nature of the collductivity is the same in both cases .
In paper referred to bove , we showed that the conductivity of the sillts is to the square root of the concentration of the vapour in the flalne .
The conductivity of the oxysalts followed the same ) the was very , but with ) ations ) portional to the concentration of the salt ) when the tion of the salt vapour in the flalne is small , the amount of salt in extremely thin layer at the surface of an electl.ode in the will be proportional to , where is the of the salt vapour , that is , ) osing t the ) the molecules of salt is larger than the thickness of which takes place .
the conductivity should vary as if it is supp ) osed that the amount of ionisation is proportional to tIJe of salt in this .
If the concentration of the salt vapour in the flame is so great that the distance between the molecules of salt is small compared with the thickness of this , then the amount of salt in the layer will be proportional to the the salt in the flame , so that such concentrations the conductivity old b ) to the concentration .
In the following table the observed conductivity of is the calculated by it to ( 1 ) ) Conccntration of Current solution , It will be observed that in each case the observed current lies between the two calculated currents .
The results of the observations described above on the fall of potential between the electrodes show that there is a very close analogy between the conductivity of salt vapours in flames and the conductivity of gases at low pressures .
In both cases there is a greater fall of potential near the negative electrode than near the positive electrode , with a small slope of potential in the intermediate space , and it seems very likely , therefore , that the peculiar of the fall of potential in gases at low pressures is due , like that in the flame , to a great difference between the velocities of the positive and negative ions .
In conclusion , I desire to express my best thanks to Professor J. J. THOMSON for many valuable suggestions during the course of these experiments , and also to Professor A. SMITHELLS for his dness in allowing me to continue the investigation of this subject begun in his from the previous paper on this subject .

