The reading of Dr. Ritchie 's paper was resumed and concluded .
This communication consists of three parts .
In the first part the author shows that the common deflecting galvanometer , in which the deflecting forces are assumed to be as the tangents of deflection , is founded on false principles , and consequently leads to erroneous results .
The wire forming the coil is of considerable thickness , and therefore there is no fixed zero from which the deflections can be reckoned .
The length of the coil , also , being generally short , occasions another serious error , as the theoretical investigation is founded on the supposition of an indefinite length .
In proof of the inaccuracy of the indications of the common deflecting galvanometer , the author took two elementary batteries , the plates of one being one inch square , and those of the other two inches .
The tangents of the deflections of the needle ( proper precautions having been taken for the equally free passage of all the electricity evolved in either case , ) were very nearly as 1 to 2 , though it is obvious that the real quantities of voltaic electricity were as 1 to 4 .
The author 's torsion galvanometer gave the degrees of torsion nearly as 1 to 4 .
Other experiments led to similar conclusions .
The author then examines the laws which were supposed to connect the conducting power of a wire for electricity , with its length and diameter , and which , according to Professors Cumming and Barlow , varies directly as the diameter , and inversely as the square root of the length - , but , according to MM .
Becquerel and Pouillet , directly as the square of the diameter , and inversely as the length .
He points out the false conclusions of M. Becquerel , and that he has , in fact , deduced the value of two unknown quantities from one equation ; and that M. Pouillet having arrived at his through the fallacious indica ?
tions of the common deflecting galvanometer , they are equally erroneous .
The author then shows that the law pointed out by Cumming and Barlow is , in ordinary cases , nearest the truth ; though , under certain circumstances , the limits of even that law may be passed .
Hence , and from a series of experiments with the torsion galvanome ?
ter , he arrives at the unexpected conclusion , that there is no determinate law of conduction , either for the length or diameter of the wire , but that it must vary , in every case , with the size of the plates , and the energy of the acid solution used in exciting them .
This conclusion the author shows to be in accordance with the views of conduction which he had previously published - , namely , that there is no actual transfer of electricity , but that all the phenomena result from the definite arrangement of the electric fluid essentially belonging to the conducting wire .
The second part of this paper reiates to certain properties of elec ?
tro-magnets .
No attempt seems to have been hitherto made to investigate the law which connects the lifting power of electro-magnets with their length .
The author found , by experiments with two soft iron horse-shoc electro-magnets , to each of which the same short horsc-shoe lifter was adapted , and the circuit of one four times that of the other , that their lifting powers were nearly inversely as the square root of their lengths .
By increasing the strength of the battery with which they were connected , their lifting powers approached more nearly to a ratio of equality ; by diminishing it , the ratio increased in favour of the shorter magnet .
Hence the law in this case seems to be as indefinite as in that of common electric induction , and the re ?
lation of the powers to vary with the energy of the inducing voltaic influence .
By another experiment , the author shows that all that is necessary in preparing a powerful electro-magnet is simply to roll a ribbon of copper about a short bar of soft iron , and to use a short horseshoe lifter of soft iron .
The quality of the iron has great influence on the power of an electro-magnet j and the author found that the worst part of a bar of the worst iron he could procure made by far the best .
A bar electro-magnet , four feet long , which scarcely retained any power when its connexion with the battery was broken , on being reconnected with it , in the same direction as before , was rapidly con ?
verted into a powerful magnet - .
but after being removed , and its wires now connected with the opposite poles , it required a long time to convert it into a magnet of much inferior power ; as if the atoms of electricity , having been first put in motion in one direction , are afterwards more easily turned in that direction than in the contrary .
The author failed in his attempts to make a permanent horse-shoe magnet of tempered steel by the touch , with an electro-magnet : not the slightest trace of magnetism was communicated to the steel ; on the contrary , a previously magnetized horse-shoe magnet had its power completely destroyed by similar means .
Dr. Ritchie describes a method of making an electro-magnet re ?
volve in a horizontal direction about its centre , by permanent magnets properly arranged .
This method consists in changing the poles of the soft iron magnet the moment it passes the pole of the steel magnet , so that attraction is almost instantaneously changed into repulsion , and the motion rendered continuous .
In the third part the author describes a mode of obtaining a con ?
tinuous current of electricity by the induction of common magnets .
Any number of soft iron cylinders , having a coil of copper ribbon covered with thin tape wound round the middle , are fixed in such a manner to a revolving table , that they can be brought in rapid suc ?
cession opposite to the poles of a permanent horse-shoe magnet : the soft iron cylinders are thus converted into temporary magnets .
The copper ribbons are so connected , by means of wires soldered to their ends , with well amalgamated discs beneath , that their contact with them is successively made and broken , as often as the soft iron cylin ?
ders pass opposite the poles of the permanent magnet : and a delicate galvanometer is made to form part of the circuit .
On putting the re ?
volving table into rapid motion , an electric state is induced on the copper ribbon , and consequently on the continuous circuit , from the moment the magnet has begun to act on it till it has acquired its state of greatest magnetic power .
The connexion being then broken , by the wire attached to the end of the copper ribbon leaving the amal ?
gamated disc of copper beneath , the needle would return to its former position were it not prevented by the formation of a new current , from the next cylinder of iron coming within the action of the magnet ; and , by employing a greater number of magnets , the developement of the fresh current may be effected before the preceding one has been broken off , and the needle be thus made to show a steady deflection .
The author failed in all his attempts to effect chemical decompo ?
sition , even of the most easily decomposable compounds , by means of the nearly constant current of electricity produced byhis present ap ?
paratus ; and previous to making a more powerful one , he wished to ascertain whether water be a conductor of electricity thus developed , or not .
For this purpose a film of hot water , of more than fifty square inches , was made to form part of the circuit of the magneto-electric battery ; the whole being properly connected with an exceedingly delicate galvanometer .
On making the apparatus revolve rapidly , not the slightest deflection of the needle was perceptible .
Hence , if so large a surface of hot water be incapable of conducting as much electricity as would agitate the most delicate astatic needle , though the exciting cause was sufficient to make a wire revolve round a magnet , and overcome the resistance of the mercury through which it was dragged , it would require an enormous power of this kind to decom~ pose water .
The author , therefore , considers it unlikely that electicity induced by magnets will ever supply the place of the voltaic battery in effecting chemical decomposition ; and he concludes by observing , that " as no increase of electro-magnetic power is gained by increasing the decomposing powers of a battery , and as action and reaction are equal , it appears improbable that we shall ever obtain high decomposing powers by any increase in magneto-electric induction.* '

