452 ZOOLOGY OF RODRIGUEZ .
The Extinct Reptiles o Rodriguez .
JBy Dr. A. Gun , The earliest notice of the Tortoises and Lizards of Rodriguez we find in Leguat ( Voyages et Avantures ) .
He says " that there are such plenty of Land-Turtles in " Rodriguez , that sometimes you see two or three thousand of them in a flock , so " that you may go above a hundred paces on their backs .
" According to Admiral Kempineelt , who visited the island in 1761 ( see Grant 's Maurit .
p. 100 ) , small vessels were constantly employed in transporting these animals by thousands to Mauritius for the service of the hospital .
But early in the present century the work of extermination appears to have been accomplished , and there is , at present , of the Rodriguez Tortoise not a single living example in the island , or in any other locality .
Remains of this Tortoise had been discovered and had reached Europe many years ago , but no particular attention was paid to them .
M. J. Desjardins , one of the first explorers of the fauna of Mauritius , sent a bone of a Tortoise found in 1786 in a cave in Rodriguez , with some remains of the Solitaire , to Paris , * where they were examined by Cuvier and Blainville , who erroneously stated them to have been recently found under a bed of lava in Mauritius . !
Another Mauritian naturalist , C. Teleair , in searching , in 1832 , for bones of the Solitaire in Rodriguez , succeeded in obtaining " numerous bones of the extremities of one or more large species of Tortoise , " which were presented to the Zoological Society of London , and exhibited at one of the meetings .
J These bones were still in the possession of the Society three or four years before the publication of Strickland and Melville 's memoir on the Dodo ( 1848 ) ; but no further attention being paid to them they were lost .
Another portion of Teleair 's collection was presented by him to the Andersonian Museum at Glasgow , where they are still preserved .
Some well-preserved bones , kindly sent to the writer by M. Bouton , of Port Louis , in 1872 , satisfactorily proved that the Tortoise of Rodriguez is distinguished from all its congeners by well-marked characters ( Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1873 , xi .
p. 397 ) ; but it was only when these remains were supplemented by those preserved in the Andersonian Museum at Glasgow , and entrusted to me by the curators of that institution for examination , and when , finally , the extensive series collected during the Transit'Of-Venus Expedition arrived , that our knowledge of its specific characters became tolerably complete .
No further important additions can be expected from Rodriguez , with the exception of the small bones of the foot and caudal vertebrae ; * Proc. Comm .
Zool. Soc. ii .
p. 111 .
Strickland and Melville , " The Dodo , " pp. 51-53 .
t Edinb .
Journ. Not .
Sci. iii .
p. 30 .
f Proc. Zool. Soc. 1833 , p. 31 .
EXTINCT REPTILES.\#151 ; A. GUNTHER .
453 and these will be but of small value , unless they be found in their natural connexion .
With the aid of the carapaces brought home by Mr. Slater we are now enabled to recognize the Rodriguez Tortoise in some carapaces which reached Europe in the last century , probably during the lifetime of the species , and which we find noticed by the following herpetologists :\#151 ; 1 .
Schoepfe ( Histor .
Testud .
1792 , p. 103 , pi .
22 , fig. B. ) has reproduced a sketch of a Tortoise 2 J feet long , which was communicated to him by Yosmaer , who examined the specimen which then was in " Museo Principis Arausionensis " in the Hague .
This seems to have been a male , with a carapace very similar in form to that of the male described below ; its front and hind margins , being still provided with the epidermoid scutes , have an undulated outline .
Schoepff was informed by Yosmaer that the carapace had been brought from the Cape of Good Hope ; and expressing himself uncertain whether it should be considered a distinct species , or a sexual , local , or individual variety of the Tortoise described by Perrault , he named it " Testudo Indica , Vosmaeri .
" 2 .
Humeril and Bibron recognized Schoepff 's Tortoise in a skeleton with complete carapace in the Paris Museum , The description of the specimen , whose .shell measured 75 centims. over the curvature , again perfectly agrees with our male specimen , and supplies a detailed account of the outer epidermoid covering .
The authors adopt the binominal term , " Testudo , " which , of course , supersedes that proposed by myself ( Testudo rodericensi , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1873 , xi .
p. 397 ) .
By the singular resemblance of the general form of the male of this species to that of some of the Galapagos Tortoises , they were led into the error of supposing that T. vosmceri came from the Galapagos Islands ( Erpetol .
Gener .
ii .
p. 140 ) .
3 .
A second specimen , probably a young female , likewise in the Paris Museum , and without known history , was considered by the Erencli herpetologists a distinct species , Testudo peltastes ( ibid. p. 138 ) .
This description agrees in every respect with our young carapaces from Rodriguez .
The Rodriguez Tortoise* differs from the Mauritius and Galapagos Tortoises by the more slender build of all the various parts of its skeleton ; its neck must have been capable of still greater flexion , as is evidenced by the deep postapophysial impressions or actual perforations of the cervical vertebrae .
Although careful comparative measurement show beyond doubt that this Tortoise had longer limbs and a longer neck than even some of the Galapagos Tortoises , yet , taking also into consideration the extreme thinness and fragility of its carapace , we must infer that this general slenderness of the bones must have been partially due to the same cause , probably a diminished supply of the calcareous salts , or a diminished power of assimilation of them .
* For the detailed illustrated description of these remains , I refer to " Gigantic Land-Tortoises ( Living and Extinct ) .
Lond. 1877 .
4to .
" The hones collected by the Naturalist of the Transit-of-Venus Expedition belonged to several hundred individuals ; and there are in some cases as many as 40 specimens of one and the same hone in the collection ; yet no variation in structure equivalent to that observed among the Galapagos , Aldabra , and Mauritius Tortoises could he detected , so that evidently in this small island there was room for one species only .
The only variation which is worth recording is one which can he explained as a sexual difference , the female having been of a smaller size and somewhat stouter form than the male , as is the case in the other Gigantic Tortoises .
Bones far exceeding in size the majority of their kind are not rare , and prove that the Rodriguez Tortoise was quite equal in hulk to Testudo , many ( proba- bly male ) individuals having had a carapace 4-J feet in length .
Erom Dumeril and Bibron 's descriptions we learn that the scutes were perfectly smooth or nearly so , and that the shell of the adult was black , whilst the young were of a lighter brown colour , the sternum being dotted with yellow .
Two kinds of Lizards appear to have been known to Legtjat .
He says ( p. 108 ) , " Les Palmiers et les Lataniers sont tous chargez de Lezards de la longueur d'un " pied : on no s^auroit se lasser d'en considerer la beauty .
II y en a de noirs , de " bleus , de verds , de rouges , de gris , et de tout cela du plus vif , et du plus eclatant , " Leur nourriture la plus ordinaire est le fruit du Palmier .
Ils no sont nullement cc malsaisans , et sont si familiers qu'ils venoient souvent manger nos melons sir la " table en notre presence , et memes entre nos mains .
Ils servant souvent de proye " aux oiseaux , sir tout aux butors .
Quand nous les faisions tomber des arbres , " avec un perch , ces oiseaux accouroient et venoient les engloutir devant nous , " quoi que nous pussions fair pour les en empecher ; et lors que nous en faisions " seulement le semblant , ils venoient de la meme maniere , et nous suivoient " toujours .
" " II y a un autre espece de Lezards nocturnes , de couleur grisatre , dont la figure " est fortvilaine : ils sont gros et longs commelebras , et la chair n'est pas mauvaise .
" Ils aiment beaucoup les Lataniers .
" The former of these Lizards may have possibly a species of , a genus which is well represented in the Mascarene region , and the species of which are subject to great variation in colour .
The latter is probably the species of which Mr. Slater collected , with remains of the Solitaire and Tortoise , several bones .
He recognized them as the remains of a Lizard , possibly belonging to the family of Skinks .
In my opinion it is a Geckoid Lizard , which , as far as the evidence before us goes , cannot be separated from the genus Gecko ; but the species from Rodriguez appears to have attained a much larger size than Gecko verm ( to which it is very similar ) , or than any other Geckoid known .
Referring , then , this Lizard to the genus mentioned , I concur in Mr. Slater 's proposal of naming it after Mr. E. Newton , Gecko newtonii .
EXTINCT REPTILES.\#151 ; A. GUNTHER , The hones collected consist of two parietals , posterior half of right ramus of lower jaw , right humerus , right half of pelvis , five left and two right femurs , and therefore must have belonged to at least five individuals , of which the one indicated by the pelvis was the largest .
In the following description these bones have been compared with the skeleton of a Gecko verus , the vertebral column of which is 100 millims. long ( exclusive of the caudal vertebrae ) , and the skull 45 millims. Th q parietal agrees in size and shape entirely with that of G. vents , in which the two long processes into which this bone bifurcates behind are separated by a large vacuity from the paroccipital .
In ( which genus is so well represented in these islands and on the coasts of this # # .
Parietal bone of geographical region , and which might have been expected to occur in Gecko newtonii .
Rodriguez ) the parietal has quite a different shape ( P. ) , and aiaPof natural its posterior processes are addressed to the paroccipital .
The articulary piece of the mandible differs nowise from that of G. verus ; like the latter it is produced behind the condyle into a hamate grooved process , which , however , is much more concave on its upper surface in the Rodriguez species than in G. verus .
Humerus of Gecko newtonii , not .
size .
A , anterior , B , posterior , C , ulnar , and D , radial aspects of bone .
The humerus offers a more striking difference from G. verus than the preceding bones ; it is much stronger , and especially its extremities are comparatively much more dilated .
Its head is transversly elongated , passing into a curved and projecting prominence , which answers to the ulnar tuberosity .
The radial crest is strongly developed , and does not extend beyond the proximal third of the length of the bone .
The transverse diameter of the distal extremity is nearly rectangular to that of the proximal .
The whole of this part of the bone is much dilated , particularly by a broad trenchant crest running along the radial border of the bone .
Of the two condyles the radial one is much the more prominent one and projects towards the anterior side of the bone .
In all these particulars G. newtonii resembles G. , all the ridges and prominences being , however , much more developed .
Length of the humerus G. verus .
millims. 22i G. newtonii .
millims. 25 Least width of the shaft - 2 3 Transverse diameter of proximal end - 5J 9 Transverse diameter of distal end - - 6i 10 A. Inferior surface of the pelvis of Gecko B. The outer aspect of the right os innominatum of the same animal .
C. Lower surface of the right half of the pelvis of G.newtonii , and D , its exterior surface .
All the figures are of natural size .
6 The pelvis and femur are so similar to those of that the accompanying figures and statements of measurements will suffice to give a perfect idea of those hones .
Length of the os ilium ( from acetabulum ) -Greatest width of os ilium ( from acetabulum ) Length of os pubis ( from acetabulum ) Width of os pubis at its base Length of os ischii ( from acetabulum ) Least width of the os ischii -Length of femur -Width in the middle Width of its lower extremity G. verus .
G. newtonii .
millims. millims. n 13 4 5"2 n ( injured ) 3 5j11 2* 11 26 30 li 3 n The femur of Gecko newtonii in four different aspects and of natural dimension .
The Extinct Mollusca of Rodriguez .
The only extinct form as yet discovered is a land-shell { Helix bewsheriana ) , which was obtained in a sub-fossil condition in the bone caves by Mr. Slater .
This species will be again referred to in the account of the recent mollusca of the Island .

