]\gt ; 1@84 .
] On the Permanent Temperature of Conductors , 40 .
177 the bottom .
The copper sheet is about of a millim. , or inc } , thick .
It is probable that it would be better a little thicker .
With this cell I can command about 45 amperes for hours together at any time , only l.equiring to take , now and then , a fresh supply of sulphate of copper from the reservoirs .
The new cell which is in process of construction is 69 inches long by 46 inches , and deep .
It has four reservoirs , and six zincs placed in two rows of ree each .
Received June 19 .
P.S.\mdash ; In the foregoing paper , I have described the construction and capability of a cell , whose dimensions are given , constructed about the beginning of July , 1883 .
It was found necessary , almost whilst I wns writing , to take the celr to pieces , as it had become blocked np with copper doposited in the natural course of nine months ' working .
In putting the cell together again , with affiention to small particulars , which I shall not describe as they will naturally occur to anyone who desires to use the arrangement , but which , need scarcely remark , make , with such great currents , all the dlfference between success and non-success , I have obtained , through a current galvanometer of which the resistance is of an ohm , a current of 63 amperes , which was quite steady .
J. T. June 16th , 1884 .
XVI .
" " On the ermanent Temperature of Conductors through which an Electric Current is passing , and on Surface Conductivity , or Emissivity By J. T. BOTTOMLEY .
With a Note by Sir WILLIAHOMSON , F.R.S. Reeeived June 1 .
paper The experiments of which an account is given in the following paper were commenced several months ago in connexion with a theoretical ation by Sir William Thomson , " " On the Effect of CIothing showing the dependence of the effect on the relation between the dimensions of the covered body , and the dimensions and physical properties of the covering .
A primary object of the experiments was the determination , for practical purposes , of the temperature of electric light conductors .
The preliminary experiments have ] to results which seem to be of considerable importance , and they point to the necessity for a fresh determination of the " " emissivity \ldquo ; VOL. XXXVII .
of wires carrying electric currents , very little seems to have beoh done experimentally .
In fact , only important experiments on th subject seem to be those of Mr. Preece , on the currents required 4 !
fuse and to raise to a dull red heat platinum wires of different diameters .
These were communicated to the Royal Society in a obtained ; oticed temperatures oPreece , Preece diifer ivery definite whose which Ihavoread Aemark tesults given b determinations were much higher than those at which I have , np to the present , experimented .
The method which I have employed for determining the heating effect of a given current in a given wire has been to find the resistance of the wire , first a very feeble current passing through it , and afterwards with the given more powerful current passing ; and after it has beeu passing for a sufficiently long time for the wire to have acquired a temperature permanent nnder the given circumstances .
The resistance of the wire becomes increased as the temperature rises , and from the increase of resistance the increase of can be calculated .
FIO .
1 .
In doing this I have used two methods of experimenting .
In the first method the wire under experiment was connected in series with the battery supplying the current , an ampere-meter , and a standard resistance of thick German silver wire .
The German silver wire was immersed in heavy paraffin oil to keep it cool , and the wire under xperiment was left freely exposed to the air , but carefully guarded by paper screens placed at safe distances , both from draughts and lB84 .
] of Conductors through which a Current is passing .
179 ourrents of air , and from radiation of the sun or laboratory fire , and from the persons of tho observers .
To commence the experiment a very feeble current was passed through the line of the copper and the German silver wlre , and by means of a sensitive reflecling galvanometer of high resistance the diiferences of potentials at the ends of AB , the copper wire , and of , the erman German silver wire , were determined ( fig. 1 ) .
The ratio etween these differences of potentials is the same as the ratio bebweeri the resistances of AB and BC .
Then , , the standard of German silver , being known , the resistance of AB was ] ated .
experiment , therefore .
gave the resistance of AB cold .
A much more powerful current was then caused to flow th ough the line , and was kept up for a sufficient time until AB had taken a permanent temperature .
The terminals of the potential galvanometer were again applied , and the differences of potentials at the extremities AB and of BC once more determined , and thus the ratio of their resistances .
If the resistance of BC had remained absolutely constant , the resistance of AB hot from the effect of a cnrrent , the magnittl.de of which is shown by the ampere-meter , would now be known .
This was practically the case .
The quantit .
of oil surrounding the German silver vire was so considerable that the temperature rose but little , and the change of resistance of German ilver with temperate , ur is so small that it was unnecessary to apply correction .
It would be easy to keep the temperature of the oil quite constant by occasionally passing a test the containing a little ice or a small freezing mixture from place to place through it , and then stirring the whole up thoroughJy .
The resistance of the copper wire first cold and afterwards having been determined , and the temperature of the wire when cold being known ( as at the beginning the temperature of the wire was the same as that of the air ) , it was easy to find the temperature of the wire hot by applying the formula for temperature correction for the resistance of copper .
I have also used , latterly , for passing a powerful current through a wire under experiment , and for determiniug the resistance of the wire while the current is flowing , a Wheatstone 's bridge , suitably arranged for the purpose , in accordance with a plan suggested by William Thomson , and I find this method more sensitive and more ally c than the potential method .
The diagram ( fig. 2 ) explains the arrangement .
ABC and are the two branches of the Wheatstone 's bridge , and the four conductors are made up as follows : BC is the wire under experiment as to heating by the current ; and are two bars of very stout copper , and between op and the portion of the bar there are soldered a considerable number of stout copper wires making up a FIG. 2 .
experimental wire .
The branch is a single long wire having many times the resistance of the branch ABC , and many times the resistance of tfle battery used , and thus only a small portion of the current passes through it\mdash ; a quantity , in fact , unable to heat this branch to any appreciable extent .
The testing galvanometer is introduced between and , the contact at being shifted about till a " " balance\ldquo ; is obtained ; and from the position of on the scale the ratio can be calculated between and , when the equipotential point has thus been found .
In experimenting , the vire BC is soldered between stout copper slips for the purpose , shown in the diagram at its extremities , and its resistance is taken with a vel.y small current passing through it ; the resistance .
provided for the purpose of varying the current .
The current is then increased by diminishing the resistance R. When this is done , the wire BC becomes heated , and its resistanoe increases ; but the conductor AB and the branch remain unaltered , though the ratio between the parts of the latter corresponding to the " " balance\ldquo ; is changed .
Let be the resistaIlce of the condnctor AB ; let and be the 1684 .
] of Conductors through which a Current is passing .
181 resistances of BC when , respectively , the -weak current and the tronger current are a , pplied ; also let and be the corre- Sponding respective lengths of the shorter and longer parts of the branch Then ( 1 ) and : : : Hence Let be the temperature of the air of the room where the experiment is made , and let it be assumed that the temperature of the wire BC is the same as that of the air during the first experiment with the weak current ; let be the temperature of the wire when the stronger current is passing .
Let and be the specific resi stance of these substances at these temperalures .
Then the change in dimensions of the wire due to heating being left out of account .
The values of and can be found , as has been remarked already , for copper and for several other substances from well-known tables and experiments .
My first experiments , after some preliminary trials had been made , were on a series of copper wires , all of them cut from the same piece , and of the same length , but some of them bare and others covered with different insulating coatings .
The wires were about No. 21 of the old B.W.G. , millim. in diameter and half a metre in .
The resistance of each , with only as much current passing as sufficed for the ordinary application of Wheatstone 's bridge , was .
unit .
These were tested by the potential method described above .
Eight wires were taken , and their surfaces were prepared as follows:\mdash ; A. Surface amalgamated with tin and mercury .
B. Surface amalgamated with mercury by rubbing on mercury nitrate and washing .
C. Bare surface ( ) .
D. Covered with cotton and shell-lac .
E. Cotton-covered .
F. Shell-lac varnish .
G. Bare , polished with fine emer H. Thick coating lampblack .
These wires were tested successively with currents of amperes , wonderfully small , but they were decided .
The following table shows the wires in order of cooIness , and therefore of the efficiency for emission of heat of their respective coverings:\mdash ; Current\mdash ; . . . . . . . .
10 / With about 30 amperes\mdash ; Tin and m . . . .
A Surface slightly fused and bIistered .
Mercury . . . . . . . . . . . .
B Wire totally dissipated .
Bare surface ( ) . .
No visible iteration .
Cotton and shell-lac . .
D Coatings fused together .
Cotton covering . . . . . .
E Covering burned off .
Shell-lac varnish . . . .
F Covering fused .
Bare polished . . . . . .
G No visible alteration .
Lampblack . . . . . . . .
H No visible alteration .
It appears therefore that the surfaces stand as follows in order of cooling efficiency:\mdash ; Iampt)lack .
, cotton and sheII-lac .
, bare wire , dim , \mdash ; in common naltered condition .
, cotton-covered .
, shell-lac varnisb .
, polished copper .
, mercury surface .
, tin and mercury .
In order to show a comparison as to the amcunt of cooling effect , I may here quote the temperatures of these wires with a current of 5 amperes passing , and in air at C. This was the highest ctlrrent I was able to apply with the battery I then had at command , and with the mode of experimenting which I was using at the time these experiments were made .
The temperatures were determined in all the mentioned in the table above , but with the higher * Covering probably half burned in and F. The wires bracketted were equally heated .
1884 .
] of Conductors through which a Current is passing .
ourrents there was in this series of experiments some uncertainty oving to the fluctuations of the potential of the dynamo-electric machine ; and , moreover , it is the less necessary for me to quote these here as I hope shortly to make the whole investigation more thorough and more satisfactory .
Temperature of wires with 5 amperes passing , the temperature of the air C.\mdash ; . . . . . . . .
Tin and mercury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mercury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
225 . . . . .
Bare wire . . . . . . . .
Cotton and shell-lac . . . . . . . . .
Cotton-covered . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shell-lac varnish. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
218 . . . . . . . .
Polished copper . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22 . . . . . . . .
Lampblack coating . . . . . . . . . . . .
The numbers in this table show that the permahent temperatures assumed in the various cases differ wonderfully little with so great differences as to clothing ; and that , at the least , there is no tendency in the covered wires to attain a temperature higher than that taken by the uncovered wires .
With stronger currents it is made much more apparent that the covering does , on the contrary , favour loss of heat by emission at the sides with a wire of the size referred to .
The foregoing table contains the results of experiments on five copper wires of good conductivity with variou coatings .
In the first that of the surrounding air , the latter being in all these cases abouk C. In the seventh column is given the emissivity of the outer surface , \mdash ; or the quantity of heat ( C.G.S. units ) lost by the surface per second per square centimetre of cooling surface per degree Centigrade of difference of temperature of cooling surface and surroundings .
I may next refer to experiments on a length of wire which was first tested in its ordinary state , then when highly polished , and afterwards with the surface covered with coatings of shell-lac varnish thickly put on and gradually increasing .
Here I had\mdash ; Length of copper wire . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 centims. Diameter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
millim. Resistance with feeble current . . . . . . . .
01268 B.A.U. German silver wire . . . . . .
020 Ralio 634 With ourrent of 10 amperes I found\mdash ; Condition of Ratio of surface .
copper to G.S. rBare unpolished .
6635 Bare highly polished .
, . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6534 One coating shell-lac . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6547 , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6510 Three , , , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6466 hree coatings shell-lac and a covering of cotton wool after three minutes . .
6595 Pitto six minutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6668 Ditto nine , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6325 Another wire was similarly treated with coatings of Brunswick black and thin , tissue paper , and gave the following results : \mdash ; Ratio of copper to Bare wire .
9895 One coating Brunswick black . . . . . . . . . . . .
9745 One B.B. 5-ply fine paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9833 One B.B. 5 paper 1 .
9844 One B.B. 5 paper 2 B.B. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9853 Same with 20-ply paper added . . . . . . .
9982 1884 .
] of Conductors through which a Current is passing .
The current was in every case 10 amperes .
Increase in the numbers indicates increase in the resistance of the tested wire , and therefore increased temperature ; while decrease in the numbers quoted shows decrease in the temperature .
The change in the permanent temperature is not more than two degrees ; and the result of these experiments may be briefly stated to be this , that there was exceedingly little effect in the way of keeping up the temperature of a No. 20 B.W.G. copper wire , about 1 millim. in diameter , by covering it up with paper and Brunswick black till it attains an external diameter of more than a centimetre and a half .
A large number of experiments were tried of a kind similar to the one just quoted , and all of them giving similar results for wires of similar dimeI .
I propose with improved arrangements which I have now at command , to obtain numbers which shall be more accurate than those which I have yet obtained ; and to extend the experiments to the case of wires of larger diameters .
I have also made some preliminary experiments on copper wires of various diameters without solid covering , cooling in air and in vacuum .
In commencing these experiments I used as a formula for controlling my results an expression derived as follows:\mdash ; A current passing through a given wire produces heat of which the amount , according to the well-known formula of JouJe , is given by\mdash ; . . . . .
where is the current , the resistance , J Joule 's equivalent , and the quantity of heat produced per second , each being reckoned in .
units .
Let be the length of the wire experimented on , and its diameter ; and let be the specific resistance of the substance at the ) .
Then\mdash ; Hence from ( 1 ) ( 2 ) .
Now let be the quantity of heat lost by the wire by emission from the surface ; let be the emissivity ; and let be the temperature of the surroundings vrithin which the wire is cooling .
Then\mdash ; . . . . . .
( 3 ) .
But when a permanent temperature is attained must equal , and hence we have from ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , .
( 4 ) .
sults , which were communicated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh Professor Tait , 1869-70 ; and which have been reduced to absoluta measure by Professor Everett , " " Units and Physical ConstantS chap .
, S 187 .
On calculating the value of the emissivity for small copper by means of the formula ( 4 ) given above , I have fonnd in every case a much greater emissivity than was obtained by these experimenters ; and so far as I have been able to go up to the present the emissivity seems to increase as the diameters of the wires experimented on are diminished .
Macfarlane 's determinations of emissivity were made for a copper globe of 4 centims. diameter , and found to be about of the thermal unit C.G.S. per square centim. per second per degree of difference of tcmperature for a polished surface with a little over of excess of temperature , and for a blackened surface with excess of or under .
For round wires of small diameter I have found very much larger emissivity than .
I have obtained different values of for wires of different sizes , varying from with a polished wire diameter millim. , and excess of temperature C. , down to with a wire of millim. , and excess of rature 2 C. In order to examine the question more thoroughly , I have com. menced iments in which I am endeavouring to do away the parI of the emissivity which is due to convection and carriage of the heaI by air .
I have experimented to a certain extent on small wires in nearly perfect vacuum obtainable ith the mercurial pump , and ] am preparing for a more complete series of experiments .
lt seems certain that this method of experimenting will give a very way of determining the value of in absolute measure for the surfaces of wires .
During the writing of this Professor Stokes has kindly reminded me of the experiments made by Mr. Crookes Proc. Roy Soc vol. 31 , p. 239 ) .
I find that my resuIts , so far as they go , agree perfectly with those of .
Crookes , showing a decrease in the emissivity due to lowering the air pressure , this decrease being very small for a reduction down to one-half or one-third of the atmospheric pressure , but very great with the almost perfect vacunm obtained with the mercurial pnmp .
The following table shows the emissivity of a copper wire with bright surface half a metre long , 0.40 millim. in diameter , and sealed iuto a glass tube , about centim. internal diametel :\mdash ; N84 .
] of Conductors through which a Current is passing .
the somewhat crude state of my preliminary experiments I have not considered it necessary in calculating to make any allowance for heat lost at the ends of my wires by conduction to the masses of metal to which they were soldered .
The following appended note , however , contains an investigation of the correction which , in future experlments , it will be necessary to apply .
Note by Sir W. Thomson .
To estimate effect of conduction of heat from the tested wire through its ends : suppose the ends to be kept at the atmospheric temperature .
This supposition corresponds to the greatest posslble degres of he effect in question .
Adopting Fourier 's notation , 111 the first four symbols ) , leb be the excess of temperature in the wire , at distance from one end : , the length of the wire ; , its thermal conductivity ; , the thermal emissivity of its surface ; , the girth of its cross section ; , the area of its ross section ; , the specific electric resistance of its substance ( C.G.S. ) ; , the strength of the current ( C.G.S. ) ; ( or , the current in amperes per square centimetre of orosssection ) ; and , Jonle 's equivalent multiplied by the force of gravity at Manchester ( centimetre-dynes ) , tho dynamical equivalent of the thermal unit ( C.G.S. ) , we have by ourier and Joule : * Temperature probably much too low .
Ihe wire , sagging down , touched the glass tube in several points .
188 Permanent Temperature of Conductors , . . . .
Neglect now the variations of and with temperature , and suppose the ctor of uniform material and area and girth of cross-section throughout its length from to .
Equation ( 1 ) becomes\mdash ; ( 6 ) , and its integral , fulfilling the end conditions , is\mdash ; ( 7 ) , where ( 8 ) .
For round or rod of diameter , we ve\mdash ; and A . . . . . .
( 9 ) .
whence .
( 10 ) .
For copper we have Angstrom ) Now put where might be about 4 for the ranges of temperature in Mr. Bottomley 's experiments , if we could judge from Macfarlane 's experiments on the cooling of a globe of copper of 4 centims. diameter ; and in the wires experimented on by Mr. Bottomley , .
Hence for these wires\mdash ; ( 11 ) Hence if .
But Mr. Bottomley 's experiments show to be more nearly , and be actually for wires of somewhat less diameter than .
Hence we have , as a practical rough approximation , ; and ( 7 ) becomes\mdash ; ( 12 ) .
In Mr. Bottomley 's experiments , and therefore 1884 .
] Theory of Calculating Maclnnes , wkich may be neglected ; and we have\mdash ; sbows that at a distance of 4 centims. from either end , the temperature is less than in the middle by , that is of the middle temperature ; at 8 centims. it is less by ; and at 12 centims. it is less by 1/ 20 .
Thus we see that the cooling by the ends is very sensible through a quarter of the length from either ; and must be allowed for by aid of ( 7 ) , unless lengths of considerably more than half a metre are taken .
But we also see that the results stated in this preliminary paper are not sensibly affected , or hardly sensibly affected , by cooling from the ends .
XVII .
' The Theory of Continuous ating Machines , and of a Mechanism on a New Principle for this and other purposes By H. S. HEAL SHAW .
Communicated by Sir WILLIAM THOMSON .
Beceived June 19 , 1884 .
( Absbract .
) The paper commences with a statement of the conditions which must be fulfilled by the mechanism of a )ntinuous calculating machine of the most general kind .
It is shown that both the operations of differentiation and integration must be performed by such an instrument .
The only hitherto known mechanisms with which it appears possible to accomplish this are the " " disk and roller and its modification the disk-globe and cylinder-integrator , or with some device which relies on the principIe of action .
A brief account is given of the applications of the disk and roller itself , which mechanism was first gested by Poncelet , for integrating the of the two variables in a traction ergometer , and has since been applied by various inventors\mdash ; the disk being sometimes replaced by a cone , as a planimeber or platometer and integrator .
The applications for the converse process of differentiation are less known , and do not appear to have been brought into successful operation .
A speed indicator , in which a screw replaced the usual axis of the roller , the roller forming the nut , was made three years ago by the author .
In this case the screw was driven at speed which varied with the space passed over by the moving body , and the disk at a speed by a clock .
The position of the roller on the disk was

