Numb. 109 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
Decemb. 14 .
1674 .
The CONTENT S. A Relation of a very odd kind of Bleeding in a little Child .
Some Queries and Answers relating to an Account given in Numb. 54 .
of a strange Lake in Carniola , A Narrative of some Observations made upon several Voyages , undertaken to find a North-East Passage ; together with Instructions given by the DutchEast-India Company for the discovery of the famous Land of Jesso near Japan .
ARelation about a North-West Passage .
An Account of threeBooks .
I.ADiscourse made before the Royal Society , November .
26 .
1674 .
concerning the Use of DUPLICATE PROPORTION , in sundry important Particulars , together with aNewHypothesis of ELASTIQUE or Springy Motions , By Sr. William Petty , Knight , Fellow of the said Society .
II .
The second Book of the ART of METALS , &amp;c. written in Spanish by Alonso Barbara , and English't by the late Earl of Sandwich .
III .
Animadversions on the First part of the MACHINA COELESTIS of the deservedly famous Johannes Hevelius ; together with an Explication of some Instruments ; made by Rob .
Hook , Geom. Prof. in Gresh .
Coll. and Fellow of the R. Society .
A Relation sent November .
16 .
1674 .
from very credible a dingenious Person , Mr. Samuel du Guard , Rector of Forton in Shropshire , to Dr. Ra .
Bathurst Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford , and by him communicated to a Friend of his in London ; concerning a strange kind of Bleeding in a little child .
I Am bold to give you a Narration of the Distemper of a Child at Littleshall , a little Town in Shropshire , because it is very unusual , ( if ever the like hath been heard by you before ; ) and also because I have certain evidence of the thing .
TheChild was aquarterof a year old , when it was taken with a Bleeding at theNose and Ears , and behind the hinder part of the Head , where was nothing at all of any Sore .
This lasted for three days ; at the end of which , theNose and Ears ceased bleeding ; but still blood came , as it were sweat , from theHead .
Three days before the death of theChild ( which was the sixth day since she began to bleed ) the blood came more violently Cc fro from her Head , and streamed out to some distance from it : Nor did she bleed only there , but upon her shoulders , and at the Wast , in such quantities , that the linen next her might be wrung , it was so wet ; and every day required clean linen .
She for three days bled also at the Toes , at the bend of her Arms , at the Joints of her fingers of each hand , and at the fingers ends ; and in such measure , that in a quarter of an hour the mother hath catch't from the droppings of the fingers , almost so much as the hollow of her hand would hold .
All the time of this bleeding the child never cried vehemently , but only groaned ; though about three weeks before , it had such a violent fit of crying as the Mother said she never heard .
After the Child was dead , there appeared in those places where the blood came , little holes like the prickings of a Needle .
This Account I had from the Mother of the Child who is a very sober Woman ; and she told it me with tears .
Every circumstance is so far from fiction , that the Women , who were many , that were with the Child in its illness and at its death , do attest it .
I saw the Child 's Coat stained , at the wast of it , with the blood that came from that part ; and also another thing bloody from the head of it .
The mother told me , the blood was not thin like water , but of that thickness as blood usually is ; and that she and others believed , there was little or no blood left in the body of the Child .
If the time of the Child 's death will add any thing to this relation , it was about last Candlemass .

