174 Mr. W. Galloway .
[ Mar. 17\gt ; March 17 , 1887 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " A Coal-duet Explosion .
" By W. Galloway .
Communicated by R. H. Scott , M.A. , F.R.S. Received Februaiy 17 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The Silksfcone pits of Altoft 's Colliery , near Normanton , in Yorkshire , in which the explosion took place , are 420 yards deep .
Both shafts are round , the down-cast being 12 feet and the up-cast 10 feet in diameter .
The thickness of the working , including a bed of soft shale below the seam , used as a holing , is 4 feet 6 inches .
The system of working is longwall .
The number of men and boys employed.underground in the day shift was about 350 .
The colliery is now twenty-one years old .
Very little fire-damp is produced in the workings .
Naked lights were used by all the workmen for twenty years before February , 1886 , yet during the whole of that period no single workman had been injured by an explosion of fire-damp , great or small .
Besides being naturally very free from fire-damp , the workings of this mine were continuously swept by strong and swift currents of air , produced by means of two ventilating furnaces at the bottom of the up-cast shaft , amounting in the aggregate to 147,380 cubic feet per minute .
As the roof subsides upon the stowing near the faces , it is necessary to take down a certain thickness of it in the stall roadways , in order to preserve them at a workable height .
For this purpose about 4 feet in thickness of roof was taken down by blasting in each stall road , the height being thus made about 8 feet 6 inches , at a distance of 10 or 12 feet back from the face .
Each stall road thus required about one blasting-shot , with a charge of from two to three pounds of powder to be fired in it about once every five or six days , so that from seven to ten blasting-shots were fired near the faces every day .
In this way the floor of each roadway became covered with small 1887 ] A Coal-dust Explosion .
pieces of broken roof , which completely obscured any small quantity of coal or coal-dust that might have fallen upon it , and been left there in the process of coal-getting .
The tubs consist of rectangular wooden boxes , mounted on wooden frames , with wheels attached to them .
They were filled with coal to a level with the top , and then contained about 10 cwt .
Thus , although no coal could fall over the ends or sides , the vibration due to the operation of hauling caused coal-dust and small pieces of coal to be shaken out through the seams in the sides and bottom on to the roadway beneath .
Here it accumulated little by little between the rails , and to a distance of a few inches on each side of them , and the attrition due to the constant trampling of men and horses , together with the occasional dragging of the endless chains on the floor , gradually reduced it to a state of fineness .
The quantity of coal-dust which accumulated on any roadway was thus , other things being equal , proportional to the number of full tubs that had passed along it from the first ; so that the oldest roadways would naturally be the dustiest , were the accumulations not removed from time to time .
Each return air-way represents the continuation of a stall road all the way from near the bottom of the up-cast shaft to the face , and it must therefore contain in any given section of its length about the same average quantity of coal-dust as any ordinary stall road .
But the return air-ways are all used as travelling roads for the men and boys going to and from the faces , and the constant trampling of feet soon mixes up any little coal-dust there may happen to be on the floor with the dust of the roof-stuff , and reduces the whole to an impalpable powder of a light grey colour .
The following conditions thus prevailed before the explosion :\#151 ; 1 .
An unusual immunity from fire-damp .
2 .
Very excellent ventilation .
3 .
Blasting going on at the rate of say 2000 shots a year , involving the consumption of upwards of two tons of powder in the same time , and this within the zone of subsidence where , practically speaking , all the fire-damp was given off , and where there was no coal-dust .
4 .
Pure air filling the intake air-ways from the bottom of the down-cast to the faces .
5 .
Air containing all the fire-damp in the colliery filling the working places and the return air-ways from the faces to the up-cast .
fi .
Coal-dust in the intake air-ways decreasing rapidly near the faces .
7 .
Light grey dust of roof-stone , but no visible coal-dust in the return air-ways .
The colliery had been canned on under these conditions for seven- 176 Geometrical Construction of the Cell of the Bee .
[ Mar. 17 teen years within the experience of the present manager .
During the whole of that time no blasting had ever been done in any intake air-way .
On the 2nd of October last , however , a party of men were instructed to blast away a portion of the side of the west chain road at a distance of about 550 yards from the bottom of the shaft .
They tired three shots in all , and the third caused the explosion .
It was not a blown-out shot in any sense .
The mechanical effects were exactly the same as those produced by other explosions .
Timber was torn out , and falls of roof some , times of great magnitude and extent were caused all through the intake air-ways , as far as the flame reached .
In the endless chain roads the box part of each empty tub was swept away from the frame , and shattered into small pieces , not one being left whole .
A spare pulley-wheel , 4 feet in diameter and weighing 15 cwt .
, which had been standing on its edge leaning against the side near the end of the west chain road , was carried four yards inwards towards the face , and laid flat on its side .
The flame traversed all the intake air-ways , except the new east road , and died out in some nearer to , and in others further from , the faces .
It did not in any case pass into a return air-way .
It did not reach the face of the workings at any point .
The new east road was quite undisturbed .
Two men who were working in it felt a concussion of the air , but saw no flame , and came out unscathed .
This result appears to be due entirely to the circumstance that the principal stables were ranged along the entrance to this road , and the ground having been kept constantly wet with the water used in the service of the horses , the flame was unable to pass-that point for want of coal-dust to sustain it .
II .
" Second Note on the Geometrical Construction of the Cell of the Honey Bee ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 39 , p. 253 , and vol. 41 , p. 442 ) .
" By Professor H. Hennessy , F.R.S. Received February 21 , 1887 .
If from the intersections of the diagonals of the three lozenges forming the apex of the cell , perpendiculars be erected , these will meet at a point on the cell 's axis , and each of them is manifestly the radius of a sphere tangent to the three lozenges .
A plane passing through a radius and the axis passes through the short diagonal , e , of the lozenge whose length is hV(3/ 2 ) ; using the notation and results of the paper above cited .
The distance intercepted on the axis by a perpendicular let fall from the middle of the lozenge is equal to = h/ ( 2\/ 2 ) , and as this

