273 Increase of Intracranial Pressure or Tension . !
median and ( 2 ) a lateral part .
The median part can be traced i horizontally backwards into the septum between the body and the splenium of the corpus callosum , but not to join the cingulum as I Ascribed by Meynert .
The lateral fibres descend the lateral I ventricle , becoming the tsenia hippocampi or fimbria , and end in the 5 cortex of the cornu Ammonis , while the alveus of this body receives fibres from its cortex , and then passes to its under surface to send fibres to the inferior surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe .
Besides these parts , there are the transverse fibres connecting the cornua i Ammonis of opposite sides .
Particular attention is directed to the different degree of staining i by Weigert 's method of the corpus callosum , fornix , and tsenia semicircularis , of which the last is scarcely coloured , suggesting that it is a degenerated or non-developed structure .
IX .
" On the Changes produced in the Circulation and Respiration by Increase of the Intracranial Pressure or Tension .
" By Walter Spencer , M.S. , Assistant Surgeon to Westminster Hospital , and Victor Horsley , B.S. , F.R.S. Received June 12 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) j i\ ) The authors have made for some time the effect of an increase in intracranial pressure or tension the subject of an experimental inquiry , and they have in this paper recorded the results obtained , in so far as the increase of intracranial pressure affects the circulation and respiration .
They conclude that the increase in intracranial pressure influences the circulation and respiration through the diminution in the physiological activity of the medulla which it causes , and show that the changes produced by the pressure assume a sequence according to the degree to which the activity of the medulla is impaired .
The authors first give an historical resume of the work of previous observers , and then a short introduction on some anatomical and physiological details which relate to the part of the subject under consideration .
The method chiefly employed of increasing intracranial pressure was by inserting a small rubber bag through a trephine bole in 0 8^nH\gt ; and then distending the bag by means of a column of mercury , which served to show at once the pressure required to dis-enT , the hag\gt ; and the extent to which the bag was distended .
e capacity of the thin-walled rubber bag , when distended , was at 274 Increase of Intracranial Pressure or Tension .
[ June 19 the same time the measurement of the amount to which the cranial content had been lessened .
The results are divided into two classes:\#151 ; I. Those in which the pressure was made on any part of the brain .
II .
Those in which it was made by passing the bag into the cavity of the 4th ventricle .
In the former case the heart , the blood pressure , and the respiration were all affected in varying degrees ; in the latter case it wag found possible to separate the effect upon the heart , the blood pressure , and the respiration respectively .
The following is a summary of the chief results obtained:\#151 ; I. The Heart.\#151 ; A considerable increase of the intracranial tension was required to influence the heart ; it became slowed and finally arrested .
This happened more readily after respiration had ceased , and required a higher pressure to produce it when artificial respiration was employed , whilst division of both vagi nerves abolished any slowing or arrest .
The arrest , when produced , continued permanently , unless the pressure was quickly removed , or artificial respiration employed , or the vagi divided .
But if the pressure was maintained whilst artificial respiration enabled the heart to start again , then the cardio-inhibitory influence was gradually lost , so that the heart returned from being very slow to its normal rate , or increased beyond the latter until the rate became equal to that seen after division of the vagi .
When the vagi were divided at this stage the rate of the heart did not alter .
But if the pressure were removed , and a pause made ( the vagi being intact ) , the cardio-inhibitory control was gradually regained , so that the heart could be slowed , or arrested afresh .
The Blood Pressure.\#151 ; A primary rise , small in the dog , larger in the monkey , was followed by a fall distinct from that produced by the slowing of the heart , and not necessarily accompanying it .
When the heart started again the blood pressure rose , finally reaching the level seen after division of the vagi , so that no further rise took place when this was done .
But the power of producing a fall of blood pressure was easily lost , for when the intracranial tension was raised for the second time no fall took place , and the blood pressure continued at a normal level or above , even although the heart was greatly slowed .
After division of the vagi the blood pressure was raised by increasing the intracranial tension and by artificial respiration , so that it could be maintained at a level between 300 and 400 mm. Hg for considerable periods .
Respiration.\#151 ; This was likewise impaired and arrested .
Its arrest reacted upon the heart and the blood pressure upon it , so that aft*1 .
On the British Earthquakes of 1889 .
1890 .
] |L the rise of blood pressure respiration occurred , even although a much higher intracranial tension was maintained than had been sufficient to arrest it when the blood pressure was lower .
II By the direct application of pressure in the upper part of the 4th ventricle a slowing of the heart with a rise of blood pressure was ill caused , whilst rapid respiration continued , so rapid as even to be nearly three times the rate of the heart in some cases .
Pressure below the calamus scriptorius arrested the respiration without directly influencing the heart , whilst in the lower part of the 4th ventricle respiration was impeded or arrested along with a fall in blood pressure , and some slowing of the heart , followed by arrest , after the respiration had ceased .
Numerous observations are recorded which are , in many cases , combinations of the foregoing , and therefore not suitable for condensation in this abstract .
Tracings are fui'nished illustrating each point advanced .
j\#174 ; i :m d i \gt ; 1 i it J ill si Is ce( I lu l i \#166 ; in ' j ilj jj : r\#174 ; S if ' X. " On the British Earthquakes of 1889 .
" By Charles Davison , M.A. , Mathematical Master at King Edward 's High School , Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June lb , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The nature of the evidence on which the accounts are founded is stated , and the method of study described .
If the disturbed area be of small dimensions , and if its boundary be approximately circular or slightly elliptical in form , it is assumed that the centre of the area coincides very closely with the epicentrum of the earthquake .
During the year 1889 there were at least five earthquakes whose epicentra were situated within the area of the British Islands .
h Edinburgh Earthquakes , January 18.\#151 ; ( a. ) First shock about 4 b- 10 m. Intensity ( according to the Rossi-Forel scale , of which a translation is given ) about V. Very little is known about this shock .
( t ) Second shock , 6 h. 53 m. Intensity VI .
The disturbed area is slightly elliptical in form , being 30 miles long from north to south and 2tjl miles broad from east to west ; area about 620 square miles , n most , places the shock consisted of a single vibration .
The charac-ustie earth quake-sounds were heard in many places , and these places are confined to an area which is neither coextensive nor concentric with 400 ^'s^UI4)ed area .
The epicentrum is at a point about 3 miles W. , 1 Balerno , and the centre of the sound-area about 2|r miles to e south or south-east of this point .
The earthquake was probably

