5 .
" On the Influence of Colour on Heat and Odours .
" By James Stark , M.D. , of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Sir David Brewster , K.H. , LL. D. , F.R.S. V.P.R.S. Ed. The author observes , that the only experiments on record relating to the modifying effect of different colours on the absorption of heat from solar light , are those of Franklin and of Sir H. Davy .
In order to investigate this subject , the author employed pieces of wool , silk , and cotton , which were wrapped round the bulb of a thermometer placed in a glass tube : the tube was then plunged into boiling water , and the time which elapsed during the rise of the thermometer from one given point to another was accurately noted .
Other experiments were also made with an air-thermometer , of which the bulb was coated with various coloured materials , and heat thrown on the ball by means of polished tin reflectors from an Argand burner .
The results accord very nearly with those of Franklin and of Davy ; the absorbing power with regard to different colours being nearly uniformly in the order of black , brown , green , red , yellow , and white .
The author next investigates the differences which occur in the radiation of heat by differently coloured substances ; a subject on which he is not aware that any experiments have ever been made previously to his own .
The mode of ascertaining the amount of radiation was generally the converse of that by which the absorption of heat had been determined ; namely , by exposing the coloured substances , in contact with a thermometer , to cooling instead of heating processes .
The general result of all his experiments was , that the loss of caloric by radiation follows exactly the same order , with regard to the colour of the radiating surface , as its absorption .
In the second part of his paper the author gives an account of a course of experiments which he made with a view to discover the influence of colour on the absorption of odorous effluvia , and more especially in the case of the absorption of the fumes of camphor and assafoetida by woollen cloth of different colours .
Black cloth was always found to be possessed of the greatest absorbing powers , and white of the least ; red cloth being intermediate between them .
Cottons and silks gave , on trial , precisely the same results , which were further confirmed by the different weights acquired by these substances from the deposition of camphor upon them .

