]\gt ; 1903 .
] ysiced opcrties of Some Properties of Nickel Carbonyl By , AI .
A. , Sc.1 .
, LL. D. , , Jacksoniam Professor in the ersity of , and } M.A. , Fellow of Clare , Jacksonian Demonstrator the University of idge .
eceived larch 3 March 26 , 1903 .
The properties of niokel carbonyl have until recently been the subject of but few investigations .
Dr. Iond and his collaborators in the discovery of this remarkable snbstance determined some of its physical properties , inclnding its ) oiling point , specific gI'avity , and vapour density .
Subsequently Dr. Mond , in tion n Professor asini , made observations on its molecular refraction and thermal expansion .
A substance of the peculiar molecular structure of nickel carbonyl iseemed to call for further study .
The ation described in the present paper was carried out in the winter of 1901 ; the authors ' intention being to a complete study of the stability of the compound both in the gaseous and liquid conditions .
Vhile the vork in ress a paper by Mittasch was published* containing an account an dmirable and exhaustive of the velocity of the reaction between nickel and carbon monoxide , including the heat of 4ormation and vapour tension.s of ths compound , covering of the hich we had exam1ned .
A number of problems examine the course of our inquiry however remain , which have not been touched upon by previons investigators , and to some of these the present paper is devoted .
The vapour density of nickel carbonyl was determined by Mond , Langer and Quincke in air , at C. by Victor Meyer 's method .
The obtained was theory requires 85 .
The aponr density at this temperature is quite normal , and there is no evideoce association even at this temperature only some C. higher than the boiling point of the compound .
It was found that the vapour exploded at C. with a flash of light , and carbon dioxide Aetected among the p1oducts of decomposition .
Berthelot explained explosio1l as being due to the production of carbon dioxide by the intermolecular reaction:\mdash ; , which was obssrved to take place carboll monoxido acts on nickel at C. it found that the action only proceeded in this to a small extent , * ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem 1902 , vol. 40 , p. 1 .
' .
Chem. Soc 1890 , vol. 57 , p. 74 Count .
Rend , p. 1343 .
S ( Ann. Chim .
] , ol .
21 ' .
304 .
Prof. J. and Mr. H. O. Jones .
[ Mar. 3 , .
nickel carl ) onyl vapour decomposed .
The reaction erates 3 kilogramme caIories , so that if the heat of formation of Ilickel carbonyl is less than kilogramme calories per molecule , explanation would be and .
This condition is satisfied Mittasch* shown bhat the heat of formation of nic.kel carbonyl is and cals .
Hence the detonation hIond might ] from the reaction : The that nickcl carbonyl was thus reported to be ether the explanation of its oility offered by Berthelot , strengthened the belief in its great instability and deterred experimenters from worki with it , in any case at temperatures above its boiling point .
atlthors ) that when ] nickel carbonyl was suddenly in an atmosphere of some inert gas , such as hydrogen or ogen , the pour decomposed quietly with deposition of metallic nickel ; there was no explosion or flash of light , and the quantity of carbon dioxide was so small , in most cases , as to be almost negligible .
This was found to be the even when the temperature used high as C. Mittasch states that he could deteot no carl ) dioxide when the compound decomposed below C. The explosion ) )lond , Langer , and Quincke must therefore have been due to the presence of oxygen , and not occur in its absence .
The amount of carbon dioxide produced by the quiet decomposition is very small , so that the Berthelot ction , possible , only takes place to a veYy slight extent .
It was therefore clear thab vaponr-density determinations of the compound old he macie in atmospheres of inert gases at temperatures much higher than C. As vapour-density determinations of such a unique compolmd as nickel ) nnder varying conditions old have a special interest and might well be to repay study , a large ) of vaponr-density determinations were madc1 Victor Meyer 's method at temperatures between C. and the boiling point of naphthalene in order to ascertain the effect of iIlcrcasing tenlperature on the dissociatiolt of the .
The -density apparatus was filled in different experiments with variotls dry inert gases , ogen , ethylene , all carepnrified and especially freed from oxygen .
In to trace l effect of the rapidity of gaseous admixture on the dissociation various forms of the resel v employed .
An atmosphere of cnrl ) monoxide to 1903 .
] Physical Propof investigate the effect of the gaseous product of dissociation on the stability of the carbonyl .
It was found that the rate of admixture of the vapour with the gases had a marked effect on the dissociation , as shown by the difference in the vapour densities , when taken under similar conditions , in the various inert gases ; and , further , that the presence of carbon monoxide produced the expected diminution in the amount of the compound decomposed .
In order to further confirm this , reservoir tubes of different bore were used , one having a cross-sectional area about three times that of ths other ( the latter be referred to as the narrow tube ) .
In the latter , admixture could take place much less readily than in the former ; consequently the surrounding gas would be expected to have smaller effect on the extent of the dissociation .
This was also confirmed by the results ; the vapour nsity in the narrow tube is almost independent of the gas employed .
The effect of the nature of the surface on the extent of dissociation tested by using the tnbes coated internally with a film of metallic mickel deposited from the vapour of nickel carbonyl by heating .
The film of nickel seemed to bring about a state of equilibrium more rapidly , so that the vapour densities determined in these tubes were lower than those in the same tubes not covered by uickel ( a similar effect was observed by lIittasch ) .
It was found that the rate at which the liquid ated , as would be expected in the case of a substance which readily , had some effect on the extent of the tion .
Hence , it necessary , in order to get comparable results , to arlange that approxinlately the same time was taken for vaporisation in all the experiments made the same temperature .
A definite end-point could be observed in each case at which the gas displaced by the vapour to come off , and a much slower evolution of gas took place .
The experiment was stopped when the more rapid evolution of gas gave place to the slower .
The results obtained are appended in the following table ( Table I ) .
In the fourth column the of nickel-carbonyl molecuIes ociated are given , calculated from the formula where is the theoretical vapour de1lsity of nickel trbonyl and is the observed value .
Unless otherwise stated , it is to be understood that the determination was made in a Victor apparatus of the usual type , occasionally referred to as the wide tube .
From the figures in the above table , it is seen that the value of the vnponr density , deduced from the experiments in the wide tube , is greater in ethylene than in nitrogcn hydrogen .
It was also VOL. LXXI .
2 I 430 Prof. J. Dewar and Mr. H. O. Jones .
[ Mar. Table Vapour Densities determined by Meyer 's Method .
of dis- ciated 0.7 2.7 0.15 6.2 8.8 6.7 2.4 6.7 4.1 6.8 4.3 2.7 0.39 0.6 3.87 4.4 6.5 64 .
6 72.0 99.7 eposit oickelNickel deposited oeveral Remarks .
Very slight deposit of nickel .
Slight deposit of nickel .
Ni covered tube .
inches in tube .
extended about 32 cm .
Wide tube .
arrow tube .
ularJy over about 3 cm .
extended 22 cm .
depositWide tdepositedWide tovered wWide toist nwide tNarrow tdepositDeposit ovisibleNarrow tight dfExtensive deposition otube , ered wombottom odeposited icarb 1dried o of nickel .
phorus pentoxidc .
Distinct deposit of nickel .
over tube .
\ldquo ; , , 1903 .
] ?
sical Prop ( jrties of lloticed that the deposit of 1lickel in the latter two gases sxtended higher up the tube than in the formsr , and was higher in hydrogen than in nitrogen .
In carbon monoxide , on the other hand , vapour density is higher than in the gases hydrogen , nitrogen , or ethyleIle , the alues at 10 C. being nearly normal , and the dissociation was incomplete even in aniline vapour .
This demonstrates very clearly the effect of the presence of one of the dissociation products on the mount of the ation .
In the narrow tube , ever , the values obtained at C. do not seem to depend , to any great extent , on the ature of the surrounding gas , the values in carbon monoxide and in the gases being almost identical , which the great effect of rate of admixture and diffusion on the dissociation .
The amount of dissociation increases rapidly with the temperature ; in nitrogen at C. it is practically complete .
The rate of increase in carbon monoxide is distinctly slower , the difference between the vapour densities in nitrogen and carbon monoxide at C. being quite marked .
Above C. the results obtained are somewhat ular ; but dissociation seems to be nearly complete at atmospheric pressure , since only a deposit of nickel could be obtained when the was placed horizoIltally and a clear part heated with the blowpipe .
A fcw vapour-density determinations were also made by Hoffmann 's method at temperatures between C. and the boiling point of aniline in order to observe the dissociation of the undiluted vapour .
Complete dissociation is reached at C. , even then the application of a pointed flame to a clear portion of the tube produced a slight deposit of nickel , so that traces of nickel carbonyl were still present .
The results are given in the appended table ( Table II ) .
The results of the experiments in the narrow tnbe are given in the fifth column for the sake of comparison , the phenomena in this case being practically the dissociation of the vapour in contact with its owlt dissociation products .
The dissociation is clearly greater under reduced pressure , as might be anticipated .
The general resuIts of the -density determinations are readily seen from the in fig. 1 ( p. 433 ) .
Having thus fonn the vapour of nickel carbonyl was much more elevated tures th had hitherto been stlspected , we resolved to examine the st ility of the liquid under pressure , and if possible tions or ] it as far as its point .
sealed tnbes , from one-hnlf to -third full of 1lickel carbony ] , were heated to C. without ) ursting .
A quultity of nickel was depositod on the first it was that its quantity was not ppreciably i on ting the .
On 432 Prof. J. Dewar and Mr. H. O. Jones .
[ Mar. .3 , standing a sufficient length of time at the ordinary temperature the nickel gradually dissolved again , although it lvas covered by the excess of liquid .
This provsd in an interesting manner the ease with which the reaction between the deposited nickel and carl ) monoxide is reversible .
The amolmt of the nickel deposition was notably greater when the liquid was heated in contact with mercury , so that use of the Cailletet pump for the examination of the critical phenomena was not practicable .
measurements of the critical temperature were made by observing the temperature at which the meniscus disappeared and Table \mdash ; Vapour Densities of Nickel Carbonyl by Hofmann 's Method .
reappeared , when a quantity of the liquid lvas aIternately heated and cooled in an exhausted and sealed off piece of glass tube of 2\mdash ; 3 mm. .
The tube was heated side by side with a thermometer in a bath , and was so arranged that it could be inverted at will .
temperatures at which the meniscus disappeared and reappeared in the course of many repeated observations with different samples of material , ranged between C. and C. It appears from the observations made with tubes that the most reliable resuIts were obtained the first time they were heated , the meniscus being better defined and disappearing more sharply on subsequent occasions .
The blurred effect noticed on a repetition of the experiment is due to a somewhat greater amount of carbon monoxide being present .
1903 .
] Some Physicat Properties of Carbonyl .
4.33 The presence of carl ) monoxidc Otlld bc expccted to Iowering of the which the meuiscus , and this expectation realised in the of experiments .
Hcncc the ture observed in tho experiment is prol ) ably belon Prof. J. Dewar and Mr. H. O. Jones .
[ Mar. 3 , true critical temperature .
The presence of 4\mdash ; 5 per cent. of carbon monoxide with its low critical temperatnre abs .
would be expected to lower the temperature at which the meniscus disappears by about C. That quantity of carbon monoxide might be present any time is shown by the following experiment:\mdash ; Volume of tube , 1 nickel carbonyl left after heating to C. Amount of nickel deposited .
0147 gramme .
carbon monoxide liberated gramme per cent. of the residual nickel carbonyl .
Hence it is very probable that the true critical temperature is about C. Comparative experiments mads with pure ethyl ether in tubes , gave a critical temperature of C. The accepted value the critical temperature for ether being C. , the observed temperature for nickel carbonyl cannot be far removed from the correct The formula , where is the absolute boiling point the absoIute criticaI temperature , should be applicable to the case of nickel carbonyl since it is applicable to ether , a liquid hich has a critical temperature of approximately the same value .
Taking the boiling point to be C. , the critical temperature calculated from the above relation would be C. , which agrees very well with the value which was found as a probable minimum critical temperature .
Although it had not been surmised that nickel carbonyl could cr stand heating above C. , nevertheless Iond and Nasini* calculated the hypothetical critical temperature of nickel carbonyl from the results of their experiments on its coefficient of expansion by mean of a formula given by Thorpe and Rucker and the value C. In a similar manner Ramsay and Shields calculated the critical temperature the temperature coefficient of the molecular surface energy .
The value deduced in this way is C. It therefore ppears that the hypothetical critical temperature calculated by either of these methods falls considerably below its actual value .
Rough indications of the critical pressure were obtained by introducing into the sealed tube containing the nickel carbonyl a small tnbe of very fine bore , closed at one end and having a small globule of mercury introduced at the other , to act as a manometer .
The position of the globule was observed at the ordinary temperature , and tgain at the critical point .
The volume of the air in the small ) occupied about one-thirtieth of its original volume at the latter * ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem 1891 , vol. 8 , p. 150 .
'Jour .
Chem. Soc lS93 , vol. 63 , p. 1108 .
190.3 .
] Physical Propertios of temperature , so that the pressure in the tube seems to be rather more than 40 atmospheres at the critical point , .
On cooling , the globule remained permanently displaced some distance up the tube , showing the existence of a pressure developed by the decomposition of the nickel carbonyl .
On standing for some time the whole of the nickel disappears , and the carbonic oxide pressure ppears .
The pressure on cooling seemed to be about ten atmospheres , hence the critical pressure would be about thirty atmospheres .
Later it will be shown that this is near the actual The critical constants of the compound being known , together with the boiling point , it is possible to calculate a vapour-pressure curve .
It was , however , thought better to determine the vapour pressure at a number of temperatures below the boiling point of the liquid , by the static method , and from this curve by extrapolations to deduce the values for higher temperatures .
A wide barometer tube ( about cm .
diameter ) was carefully cleaned , dried , and drawn off to a fine capillary tube at one end .
The tube was then placed pright i a vessel of purse dry mercury and exhansted thoroughly with a Fleuss pump .
A small tube full of nickel carbonyl was now introduced at the bottom of the tube and the whole then exhausted a , while ronnded by a freezing mixtnre , in order to get rid of all adhering , and finadly sealed off rapidly at the fine capillary .
By this method of procedure only a very small of decomposition took place during the sealing off , as indicated by the very slight deposit of nickel .
The pressure was then read off by means of a kathetometer , while the tube was rrounded by a bath kept at various constant ures .
The results are appended below , together with those obtained by Iittasch by the dy1lamic method .
Dew and Joncs .
9 ' C. 94 3 mm. C. mm. 7 .
1- ) 349.7 532.6 The for C. C. give the following Bankine formula for the relation between the , in millimetres of mercury and the absolute temper ture T. ) At C. ( about the critioal temperature ) the pressure from this equation is cttmospheres .
the resuIts obtained by Mond and asini , , the boiling point C. 751 mm. and the pressure at C. mm. , a similar expression , , is obtained .
Taking Mittasch 's pressures for C. and C. the Hankine obtained is:\mdash ; The boiling points calculated from these formulae are given below:\mdash ; Mond C. bhttasch Dewar and Jones In order to further confirm our vapour-pressure determinations , we made a determination of the boiling point of some oarefully dried and redistilled nickel carbonyl .
With the barometer at 769 mm. the liquid boiled at C. It would therefore appear that our vapour tension curve is the more accurate .
The following curves , fig. 2 , illustrate very clearly the extent of the deviations at different temperatures .
1903 .
] Some Physical Propertios of Nickel The latent heat of vaporisation of Ni , is calories per gramme , and the Trouton constant ( molecular latent heat divided by the absolute boiling point ) is , its value for ether ) eiIlg 2 .
The namber obtained by dividing the absolute criticaI temperature by the critical pressure , which is proportional to the volume of the molecule , .
der Waal 's constant , is the similar ntlmbcr for carbon monoxide is , so that nickel carbonyl according to theory has a molecule times larger than carbon monoxide .
The molecular volume of nickel carbonyl at its ) oiling point is , as compared for ether .
The critical density appenrs to be about hile that of ether is only .
If the liquid densities of Iond and are taken with the critical data , then the aterston f fits in very well with the results .
A similar formula for ether given by Avenarius .
The molecular volume of nickel carl ) its boiling point is subtracting from this for the nickel atom , as the olume of each moleculc of carl ) monoxide in the molecnle .
liqnid carbon monoxide its ) .
point has the molecular volume of 35 , so that contraction wonld take place if cttrbon monoxide could coml ) with nickel .
The heat of formation of nickel carbonyl is about four times greater than that of the liquefaction of the equialent amount of carbonic oxide under normal conditions .
The experiments described sho cleal ) nickel carbonyl is a substance admirably for the demonstration of the phenomena of dissociation .
Great care must , , be taken in handling the substance , owing to its poisonous properties inhaled .
It also forms an excellent tion of reversible reaction , and the following oxperiments to ] the in hich it ) used for this purpose .
A numl ) of carefully dried tnbes were usted 1 ) means of Fleuss pump , and were then filled with a mixture of 10 per cent. nickel carbonyl vapour and 90 per rbon monoxide , at prcssures of 50 , 100 , 226 , 304 , 396 , 504 , and 624 mm. of These tnbes were then heated in a bath mtil nickel began to deposit ; the tube under observation was then kept that or slightly temperature for about half-an-hour , and ards tested for the presence of nickel carbonyl by clealt portion of the tube a fine pointed flame , and in this the presence of evcn ery sm trace of nickel carbonyl was tely detected ) the formatiou of a bright mirror of nickel on the hot part of the ) .
The tube at 50 mm. pressure did not deposit in :lcohol pour , Somo sical Properties of Nickel Carbonyl .
[ Mar. 3 , but did so at C. , and , after heating for a few hours at this temture , nickel carbonyl could be detected in the tube .
After stnnding for a few days , however , nickel was deposited when a clean portion of the tube was heated with a pointed flame , thus showing that nickel carbonyl had been regenerated .
In the 100 mm. tube nickel was still deposited after heating for two days at C. ; all the nickel carbonyl was found to have Qappeared after the tube had been heated for some time to C. Nickel was deposited in the at 226 mm. pressure at C. , in the 301 mm. tube at C. , in the other tubes at slightly higher temperatures .
In the two tubes at the highest pressures there was a considerable quantity of the carbonyl present after heating for an hour at C. All the tubes in which the nickel carb-onyl had been so far destroyed thnt no visible of nickel could be obtained on heating a clean portion of the tube }with a small flame , after standing for a few days contained enough of the carbonyl to be readily detected by the above test .
Another form of experiment suitable for demonstration proved the reaction proceeded rapidly at the ordinary temperature , and with a measurable velocity at low temperatures , even when the pressure of the carbomc oxide atmosphere was below 200 mm. large bulb of about 200 .
capacity was connected to a mercury manometer of small bore ( so that the movements of the in the manometer were proportional to the changes of gas concentration in the bulb ) .
The bulb was highly exhausted and then filled with pure nickel carbonyl vttpour to a pressure of 51 mm. of mercury at C. After heating for about an hour to C. the pressure , measured after cooling , had risen to 143 mm. , corresponding to a decomposition of about 60 per cent. of the nickel carbonyl present .
Heated in a glycerine bath to C. the pressure reached 198 mm. , corresponding to practically complete tion , which ought to develope a pressure of 204 mm. On rapidly cooling the bulb and allowing it to stand at the ordina1y temperature the pressure fell , at first , about mm. in an hour , then after two days it had fallen to 120 mm. , or about 55 per cent. had recombined , after ' more days the pressure was 97 mm. , or about 60 per cent. had recombined , after standing four weeks some of the deposited nickel remained unattacked .
The bulb was again heated to C. , so as to deposit all the nickel on the lower part of the tube , and the pressure now rose again to 200 mm. The lower part of the bulb where the nickel deposited , was now immersed in liquid air , when it was observed that still a small bub distirlct in pressure took place after some hours .
Liquid carbonic oxide did , however , appear to react with nickel reduced from the oxide by hydrogen .
1903 .
] On Variation of Angles .
439 The volatile iron carbon.yl has been made tho subject of number of similar observations , dealing with its physical properties and chemical stability , which will be discussed in another communication .
" " An Enquiry into the Variation of observed in Crystals , especially of Potassium-Alum and Anlmonium-Almn.\ldquo ; By 1rofessor H. A ) .
eceived lIarch lfarch 26 .
1903 .
( Abstract .
) Corresponding angles sured on different crystals of the same substance usually differ slightly .
On cubic crystaIs the angles are nown .
Pfaff professed to have established that o1lly those cubic crystals which display birefringence exhibit divergence from the tlJeoretical angles , but Brauns showed that in lead nitrate , ammonia-num , and spinel , for both isotropic and birefringent crystals alike , the octahedron angle may differ by as much as 20 ' from that of the regular octahcdron .
The uthor has voured to trace the changes of angle upon one and the same crystal dnring its growth by measuring it at intervals without it from the solution in which it is growing .
This is accomplished of a new tolescope-goniometer in which the crystal is observed through one side of a rectangular glass trough , and the changes in the inclination of each face are followed by watching the disI)lacements of the imags of a collimator slit by refiection in it .
The crystal is held by a clip lvhich it envelopes as it grows .
Small movements of the image followed by means of a special -eyepiece }which accurately measures the magnitude and direction of the displacement .
Examined in this way an octahedron of alum mmoninm or potassium ) is found to yield not one but three images from each ; closer inspection shows that the is not really an dron , but has the form of very flat triakis octahedron .
It often happens of the three faces which nearly coincide , one is la ] ge and the remaining two very small , so that of the three one is bright and the others are very can only bc discerned }with difficulty ; in such a case the crystal as measured in the ordinary way vould appenr to octahcdron whose angle differs from the theoretical by a few minutes .
lVhcn a growing of ?
is watched for sevcral hours or days , it is found that the three images yielded by apparent octahedron face continually change their position ; one set fades away and is replaced nother set , which more videly

