" Experimental Researches in Electricity .
" Tenth Series .
By Michael Faraday , Esq. , F.R.S. D.C.L. , &amp;c. &amp;c. This paper relates altogether to the practical construction and use of the voltaic battery .
Guided by the principles developed in former series , the author concluded that in voltaic instruments in which the copper surrounded the zinc , there was no occasion for insulation of the contiguous coppers , provided they did not come into metallic contact j and therefore in the construction of some new instruments he interposed paper only between the coppers instead of the usual insulating plate of porcelain or glass .
The battery thus constructed is essentially the same with Dr. Hare 's 3 and the author recommends even his form of trough for the purpose of putting the acid on to , and moving it from the plates .
By attending to certain points described , as many as 40 pairs of plates could be packed into a space not more than 15 inches in length , and thus a very portable , and , at the same time , powerful and convenient trough might be obtained .
In comparing this form of trough with others , the author used acids of constant strength , took note of their quantity , allowed them to act in the troughs until the power of the apparatus had nearly ceased , estimated the quantity of effect by his volta-electrometer , and then estimated the quantity of zinc in the battery employed in producing the effect by the results of an analysis of a given portion of the ex ?
hausted charge .
In this way it was easy to tell how much zinc was dissolved from any one plate , or from all the plates , and to compare it with the quantity of water decomposed in the volta-electrometer .
Thus , with a perfect battery of 40 pairs of plates , an equivalent of water decomposed in the volta-electrometer would be the result of the solution of an equivalent of zinc from each zinc plate , or forty equivalents in the whole 3 but with a battery not so perfect , a greater proportion of zinc would be dissolved by the acid in the cells .
When the new battery was thus compared with that of the ordinary form , it was found to have greatly the advantage .
Thus , with 40 pairs of plates , the former lost 2*21 equivalents at each plate , and the latter 3'54 .
With 20 pairs of plates , the former lost 3*7 per plate , and the latter 5*5 .
With 10 pairs of plates , the former lost 676 per plate , and the latter 15*5 .
The author refers to two diffi ?
culties still existing in the construction of the battery , but considers its value so great as to deserve receiving that degree of attention , by the application of which these difficulties may be removed .
The author then investigated many other practical points in the use of the battery , ascertaining the influence of various circumstances in the manner already described .
Thus he found nitric acid to give a higher result of voltaic action than sulphuric or muriatic acid ; the quantity of zinc dissolved in order to produce decomposition of an equivalent of water being only 1*85 per plate when nitric acid was used , 3*8 when muriatic acid was used , and 4*66 when sulphuric acid was employed .
The acid which he afterwards used as the best for ordinary purposes consisted of 200 water , 4*5 oil of vitriol , and 4 nitric acid .
The mode of proof adopted by the author was of course independ ?
ent of the strength of the acid ; as was shown by making experiments with the same acid at very different strengths ; thus , when nitric acid was used , and the strengths were as 1,2 , and 4 , the proportion of zinc dissolved was very nearly the same for the water decomposed .
The same result was obtained when sulphuric acid was employed .
The different circumstances of uniformity of charge ?
purity of zinc ?
foulness of the zinc plates ?
new and old plates ?
vicinity of the copper and zinc ?
doubling of the copper ?
first immersion of the plates ?
number of plates ?
size of the plates and simultaneous decompositions ?
were then considered , and such of them as would ad ?
mit of experimental comparison in the manner already described were put to this test .

