[ 1051 ] XX1Y .
On the Ova of the Echidna Hystrix .
By Professor Owen , C.B. , , Received April 26 , \#151 ; Read May 13 , 1880 .
[ Plate 39 .
] Towards a knowledge of the generative economy of the Spiny Monotreme ( Hystrix , Cuv .
) the recorded steps are the following :\#151 ; The fact of its possessing mammary but teat-less glands , as in the Ornithorhynchus ; * * * S that these glands acquired large and functional development concomitant with ovarian indications of recent gestation ; t that the lacteal areola became lodged in a tegumentary depression or quasi pouch , capable of receiving the head and fore limbs of the young , ^ at least when this was not more than 1 inch 10 lines in total length .
The female Echidna and her young , the subjects of the paper of 1865 , were taken in Lolac Forest , Victoria , Australia , on the 12th August , 1864 .
Guided thereby , I noted , in correspondence with friends in localities frequented by the Echidnse , the period when females in the impregnated state might be obtained , with instructions as to the parts to be preserved and transmitted , in alcohol , for examination ; noting , also , the chief facts which remained to be determined S in reference to the subject of the present communication .
Among such friendly correspondents I have the good fortune to include George Frederic Bennett , Esq. , Corresponding Member of the Zoological Society of London , resident at a locality , Toowoomba , in Queensland , where individuals of the Echidna Hystrix were to be had .
In a letter of September 23rd , 1878 , Mr. Bennett writes:\#151 ; " You will have received , ere this reaches you , specimens of probably impregnated Echidna got on various dates\#151 ; July 18th , 27th , and August 9th .
The correspondent 's father , my friend Dr. Bennett , F.L.S. , being in London when these specimens had arrived , I dissected them in his presence , but found not any ovum in either uterus .
|| The ovaria showed one or more enlarged ovisacs .
As the season of generation might vary within certain limits in different localities , I urged the prosecution of the quest through the months of August and September .
* Phil. Trans. , 1832 , p. 537 , Plate 17 , figs. 2 and 3 .
t Op. tit .
, 1865 , p. 674 , Plate 40 , figs. 1-5 .
t Ibid. , p. 675 .
S Ibid. , p. 677 , Plate 40 , figs. 6-10 .
Ibid. , pp. 672 , 682 .
|j See the figure of the female generative organs of Echidna in Phil. Trans. , 1865 , Plate 41 , fig. 1 .
In a letter from Mr. G. F. Bennett , dated Toowoomba , January 14th , 1879 , he writes:\#151 ; " I was not able to get any more specimens this last season , but I hope to begin where I left off last year , and continue to the time advised in the letter of my father's\#151 ; that is , to the middle of September ; and then I hope I shall be able to give you material to decide this important question .
" In February last I was favoured by receiving from Dr. Bennett , who had returned to Sydney , New South Wales , a letter of the date December 26th , 1879 , in which I had the pleasure to read :\#151 ; " I have now sent you a case containing a tin of preparations in spirit of the uteri of Echidna .
I selected those I thought would interest you , but I fear none of them yet solve the problem .
One ( not sent ) I have ventured to open\#151 ; distended uterus of one captured in August\#151 ; and it contained a small semiopaque ovum .
Those sent were captured from August 30th to October 10th .
One , taken September 24th , was not impregnated , but a young one was found in the pouch , and another on the 29th September .
" I welcomed this satisfactory confirmation of the marsupial structure described in the paper of March 2nd , 1865/ " and was gratified shortly after by receiving the " tin " of specimens notified as despatched by my friendly correspondent .
The specimens , four in number , of the hinder half of the trunk and hind limbs , with the generative organs entire and in situ , were in a good state of preservation ; and my first leisure was devoted to their examination .
In two of these the uteri were unimpregnated .
In a third specimen , from a female killed August 30th , 1879 , three ova were lodged in the deep folds of the thick and soft inner membrane or tissue of the left uterus ( Plate 39 , fig. 1 , c ) .
There was no ovum in the right uterus ( ibid. , fig. ljd , c ) .
The ova were of a spherical form , and of different sizes ; the smallest had a diameter of 2^ millims. , the next in size of 4 millims. , the largest of 6 millims. The smallest ovum was situated nearest the vaginal end of the uterus , the next in size was nearer the Fallopian end , the largest held an intermediate position .
Each was lodged in a smooth depression of the soft and thick inner uterine coat , and some threads of mucus extended over the larger ovum .
These were shown by microscopical investigation not to be vessels , but filamentary portions of uterine secretion ( fig. 2 , a coagulated probably by the preserving fluid .
A magnified view of the ovum , as seen undisturbed in its nidus , c ' , is given in fig. 2 .
In the fourth specimen , from a female killed on the 14th September , 1879 , there was no ovum in the left uterus ( ibid. , fig. 3 , d ' ) but in the right uterus ( ibid. , fig. 3 , c , d ) was an ovum of the size of the largest of the three in that of the date August 30th .
It is shown in situ , with half of the smooth cell from which it was dislodged in reflecting the portion of the uterine wall , c , including the ovum with the other half of the cell .
This was situated near the Fallopian end of the uterus .
The parts being dissected while under colourless dilute alcohol , a slight touch of a camel 's * Phil , Trans. , 1865 , p. 671 , Plate 39 .
PROFESSOR OWEN ON THE OVA OF THE ECHIDNA HYSTRIX .
1053 hair pencil rolled the ovum out of its cell ; there was no organic adhesion between them .
In Plate 39 , fig. 4 , the ovum is shown , moderately magnified .
The outer membrane ( hyalinion or " zona pellucida " ) closely resembled that of the similar-sized ovum of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus* * * S Under a magnifying power of 120 , hyaline corpuscles with interspaces , as shown in fig. 6 , pervaded the homogeneous part of the tunic .
The space separating it from the embryonal or vitelline mass is shown at the rent of the hyalinion , at h , fig. 4 .
No trace of spermatozoa could be detected in the fluid occupying the interspace .
The yolk or germ-mass has a delicate smooth covering closely attached to the subjacent mass .
On picking off with a fine needle-point part of this investment ( fig. 5 , v ) , the granular yolk-substance adhered to its inner surface .
The chief and interesting feature of this yolk-mass was the linear fissure , , extending along about one-third of the periphery , and penetrating a short way into the vitelline or germinal substance .
This fissure may be interpreted as the commencement of the primary fission of the mass , and as indicative of a stage in development prior or preparatory to the complete fission observed by Barry t and BischoffJ in the smaller uterine ovum of the rabbit .
Not any trace of embryonal structure was discernible in or near this fissure , or in any other part of the germ-mass .
One portion of this mass presented a darker tint than the rest , but the structure was uniformly and minutely granular ; the coagulating influence of the alcoholic menstruum had given increased firmness to the mass .
The results of the foregoing investigations may be summed up as demonstrating the close resemblance in Echidna to Ornithorhynchus of the uterine ovum in structure , as in augmentation of size prior to embryonal development ; the latter character being exemplified in a greater degree in the present ( )series by the smaller size of the ovum , the least of the three , in the left uterus ( Plate 39 , fig. 1 ) .
Concomitantly with the more equal development of the right and left female organs in Echidna , as compared with Ornithorhynchus , S is the evidence of an ovipont by the right ovarium shown by the reception of the impregnated ovum in the uterus of that side ( ib. , fig. 3 ) .
Finally , the additional evidence of the viviparity of the Monotremes in the commencement of the fission of the germ-mass ( fig. 5 , * This " membrane ( Plate 25 , fig. 6 , a ) offered a moderate degree of resistance when torn open , and yielded equally in every direction when separated from the yolk , the rent margins curling inward like the coat of an hydatid ; it was of a dull greyish colour , slightly transparent."\#151 ; Phil. Trans. , 1834 , p. 561 .
t Phil. Trans. , 1839 , pp. 320-332 .
+ * Entwickelungsgeschichte der Kaninchen-Eies , ' 4to .
, 1842 .
S Phil. Trans. , 1834 , Plate 25 , fig. 2 ; Phil. Trans. , 1865 , Plate 41 , fig. 1 .
Description of the Plate .
Fig. 1 .
Female organs of Echidna Hystrix ; both uteri laid open , and three ova exposed in situ in the left uterus .
Natural size .
Fig. 2 .
The largest of the three ova in the cell of the lining uterine substance , with filamentary portions of secreted matter passing across the ovum .
Magnified .
Fig. 3 .
Female organs of Echidna Hystrix ; both uteri laid open , and one ovum shown in the right uterus .
Natural size .
Fig. 4 .
The ovum removed , with the hyalinion , h , partially torn to expose the yolk or germ-mass and the interspace between it and the outer tunic .
Magnified .
Fig. 5 .
The germ-mass of the same ovum , showing the fissure y ; the hyalinion , h , being reflected .
Magnified .
Fig. 6 .
A portion of the hyalinion .
Highly magnified .
Owen , .
Phil. Trans. 1880 .
Plate , 30 .
W\amp ; st. Tfe* " ryuut \amp ; .
Co.

