108 Dr. J. A. McWilliam .
The Structure and Hhythm [ Jan. 29 , glacier in which unusually powerful forces may be supposed to be at work .
Moseley 's argument , however , seems to be decisive against the belief that the ordinary comparatively undisturbed descent of a glacier along a moderately sloping bed takes place by fracture and regelation .
Moseley 's value of the shearing strength of ice , which has been shown to be enormously too great as a measure of the resistance of ice to slow shearing , would appear on the other hand to be an inferior limit to the resistance to the shearing fracture which must precede regelation .
Moseley has at any rate done good service by calling attention to the comparatively small intensity of the shearing force of gravity in the ordinary descent of a glacier .
It would hardly have occurred to one fresh from the study of Forbes to look for evidence of the viscosity of ice in hand specimens exposed to moderate shearing forces in a laboratory .
II .
" On the Structure and Rhythm of the Heart in Fishes , with especial reference to the Heart of the Eel .
" By J. A. McWilliam , M.D. , Demonstrator of Physiology in University College , London .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. Received January 14 , 1885 .
I. On the General Arrangement and Structure of the J Heart .
The pulsation of the eel 's heart can easily be seen externally on the ventral surface of the body a short way behind the pectoral fins .
There are no rigid structures of any kind between the integument and the heart .
When the very tough and resistant skin is cut through and the great lateral muscles are separated from each other , the pericardium is seen , loosely adherent to the surrounding tissues .
The pericardial cavity being laid open , the various parts of the heart , abundantly lubricated with fluid , come into view .
The organ is not freely suspended in the pericardial chamber , but is attached to the walls of that chamber by numerous and considerable bands , which vary in size and arrangement .
The bands connected with the ventricle pass chiefly to the lateral and dorsal aspects of that part j they generally communicate with one another , forming a plexiform arrangement , and they tend materially to restrict the locomotion of the organ during systole .
These bands are for the most part fibrous ; they convey , however , large blood-vessels to the ventricle .
These blood-vessels come from the dorsal part of the pericardial chamber and climb up in the fibrous bands on to the moving ventricle to 1885.1 of the Heart in Fishes , especially that of the Eel .
ramify on its surface .
The partial fixation of the ventricle by the bands mentioned is probably in relation with this peculiar mode of blood-supply .
There are generally two such vessels passing on to each side of the ventricle .
These vessels are arterial ; they are distributed to the outer part of the ventricular wall ; they do not supply the whole thickness of the ventricular muscle .
The greater part of the ventricular substance is spongy ( like the ventricle of the frog ) and is permeated by the venous blood passing through the heart ; the outer part , however , is much more dense and compact in structure , and is supplied with arterial blood by the special system of vessels mentioned above .
Veins are also seen upon the surface of the ventricle ; they run upwards and backwards to terminate near the mitral orifice , opening there into the tubular vessel which connects the ventricle with the remaining parts of the heart .
The ventricle is also attached to the bulbus arteriosus , to the auricle , and to the sinus , by means of fibrous bands , which vary considerably in number and arrangement .
A series of such connexions between the auricle and the ventricle exists around the mitral orifice . . .
\#166 ; .
: , The auricle is attached dorsally near the middle line by several short thick bands , which pass to it from the dorsal aspect of the pericardial chamber ; there are also some slender threads , which pass to its ventral and lateral surfaces .
The auricle is similarly connected to a slight extent to the sinus , and the sinus has some connexions with the lateral parts of the parietal pericardium .
The sinus is placed dorsally , and is almost concealed by the over-lying auricle .
It receives , besides other vessels , the right and left jugular veins , which enter it from above .
Between the terminations of the two jugular veins , there is a part of the sinus marked off from the rest by a slight fold\#151 ; best distinguished when the heart is well filled with blood .
This part is physiologically distinct ; it may be termed the " inter jugular part of the sinus .
" It becomes continuous with the dorsal wall of the auricle .
The ventral wall of the sinus passes on to be directly attached to the ventricle at the mitral orifice .
The proper auricular tissue does not form a complete chamber ; it forms the lateral and dorsal parietes of a chamber , the floor of which is chiefly made up by the prolonged ventral wall of the sinus .
( This prolonged ventral wall of the sinus corresponds to the " basal wall " described by Gaskell in the tortoise heart .
) The auricle appears as a sort of appendage or diverticulum bulging laterally and dorsally from the prolonged ventral wall of the sinus .
The auricle is not directly contiguous to the ventricle , but is separated from the latter by a short intervening tubular vessel , somewhat resembling the canalis auricularis of the mammalian foetus .
110 Dr. J. A. Me William .
The Structure and Rhythm [ Jan. 29 , This tubular vessel becomes continuous with the ventricle at its mitral orifice , which is placed a little below the middle of the dorsal aspect of the ventricle .
Eel 's Heabt ( diagrammatic ) .
J.Y. Jugular Veins ( right and left ) .
Au .
Auricle .
V. Ventricle* B.A. Bulbus Arteriosus .
L. Liver .
1 .
Ostial parts of Sinus .
2 .
Interjugular part of Sinus .
3 .
Main part of Sinus .
4 .
Basal wall of Auricular Chamber continuous with ventral wall of Sinus .
5 .
Tubular communication between Auricle and Ventricle ( canalis auricularis ) .
6 .
6 .
Arteries passing to Ventricle .
7 .
Veins on surface of Ventricle .
When the circulation is going on this disposition of the parts of the heart is rendered extremely obvious by the differences in colour presented by the various portions .
The sinus is of a blue colour ; the auricle is dark red ; the ventricle is of a lighter red tint .
When the ventricle is turned upwards , the blue ventral prolongation of the sinus 1885 .
] of the Heart in Fishes , especially that of the Eel .
Ill forming the floor of the auricular chamber is very apparent ; and when the fibrous threads attaching the external surface of the auricle to that of the ventricle around the mitral orifice are divided , the blue intervening tubular vessel is plainly seen .
The connexion of this vessel ( canalis auricularis ) with the ventricle is seen , under the microscope , to be chiefly established by connective tissue .
There is , however , muscular continuity as well ; for the ventricular substance and the muscular wall of the above-mentioned vessel ( canalis auricularis ) are connected by an extremely narrow and prolonged isthmus of muscular tissue .
II .
On the Spontaneous Rhythm of the Heart as a whole and of its Various Parts .
The normal contraction of the heart begins by a distinct simultaneous beat in the right and left jugular veins , near their termination in the sinus .
This spot may be denominated the " ostial part " of the sinus .
Thence the contraction passes along the remaining part of the sinus to the auricle , and then to the ventricle .
The mitral orifice being placed , not at the upper end of the ventricle , but a little above the middle of its dorsal aspect , the contraction of the ventricle begins at this part , and affects the middle portion of the ventricle before it passes over the upper and lower ends .
The normal order of contraction seen in the heart can easily be reversed by direct stimulation of the ventricle .
Contraction then begins at the stimulated point and spreads over the whole heart ; the ventricle first contracts , then the auricle , and lastly the sinus .
This reversed mode of contraction usually ceases to be seen whenever the stimulation of the ventricle is discontinued ; in some instances , however , it persists for a short time longer .
The passage of a constant current through the ventricle is sometimes able to cause that part to contract first , and so to lead to a reversal of the normal order of contraction of the parts of the heart .
During the continuance of the reversed mode of cardiac contraction , the circulation becomes much obstructed ; the auricle and sinus are distended with blood .
For the auricular beat occurs before the ventricular beat has ended , and the auricle is unable by its systole to force the blood into a contracted ventricle .
A regular contraction of the auricle leads very readily to a beat of the ventricle .
A partial contraction affecting only the part of the auricle remote from the ventricle is not followed by a ventricular contraction ; a partial contraction affecting the part of the auricle adjacent to the ventricle is usually followed by a ventricular beat , just as if a regular beat of the whole auricle had occurred .
But apart from the occurrence of a preceding auricular beat , a 112 Dr. J. A. Me William .
The Structure and Rhythm [ Jan. 29 , ventricular contraction may occur in sequence to a sinus beat without the intervention of a contraction of the proper auricular tissue at all .
This is evidenced by the state of matters observable in a mode of cardiac action which frequently presents itself as a result of certain conditions\#151 ; especially nervous influences\#151 ; to be afterwards described .
The phase to which I refer is that in which contraction of the sinus , followed by contraction of the ventricle , occurs once or many times without any auricular contraction at all .
Here the contraction is first seen in the sinus ; after an appreciable pause it passes over the ventricle , the whole auricle meanwhile remaining perfectly motionless .
Moreover , if the ventricle is made to contract first ( .
, by direct stimulation ) , the contraction is after a short interval propagated to the sinus , the auricle being perfectly quiescent as before .
And the presence of the proper auricular tissue is not at all necessary for the transmission of the beat between sinus and ventricle .
For the whole of the auricle proper can be removed without interfering with the propagation of the contraction from the sinus to the ventricle\#151 ; provided the direct anatomical connexion of the sinus and ventricle be left intact\#151 ; that connexion which has been described as a prolongation of the ventral wall of the sinus to the ventricle ( basal wall ) .
In the absence of all the auricular tissue the ventricle continues to respond regularly to each beat of the sinus .
That the ventricular beats here observed are really consequent on the preceding sinus beats\#151 ; that the action of the ventricle is not an independent automatism , can be readily shown by detaching the ventricle from all connexion with the sinus tissue .
When such is done the ventricle either stands still or goes on beating at a much slower rate than the sinus , and with a rhythm independent of that of the sinus .
It is obvious then that contraction may readily pass from sinus to ventricle , or from ventricle to sinus , without the intervention of any of the proper auricular tissue .
And this condition seems to obtain not only in the heart of the eel but in that of many other fishes as well , e.g. , salmon , carp .
On the other hand , contraction can be readily propagated from the sinus to the ventricle , and vice versd , through the auricular tissue , without the presence of the direct anatomical connexion ( basal wall ) between sinus and ventricle .
For if this connexion be completely divided it will be found that the contraction can pass with the greatest regularity from the sinus over the intact auricle to the ventricle .
And partial section of the auricle shows that a very slender strip of auricular tissue is sufficient to allow the transmission of the contraction to take place .
A " blocking " of the contraction can easily be brought about by further section or by carefully applied pressure\#151 ; just as Gaskell has found to be the case in the heart of the tortoise .
And many of the conditions which Gaskell has described with refer1885.1 of the Heart in Fishes , especially that of the Eel .
113 ence to blocking in the tortoise heart seem to obtain in the eel 's heart as well .
If the means employed to bring about blocking have been kept within certain limits\#151 ; if the section has not been carried too far or if the pressure applied has not been too great the blocked condition usually passes off after a time , and the normal propagation of the contraction is again evident .
The recovery of the tissue from the blocked condition can be materially accelerated by the application of the normal salt solution , and a similar beneficial effect is often apparent after the cardiac action has been arrested for a time by stimulation of the vagus nerve .
The normal sequence of the events constituting a cardiac beat is often in the course of prolonged experiments seen to become interrupted .
The change which presents itself with the greatest frequency is a failure of the ventricle to respond to each beat of the other parts of the heart .
Such failure often occurs without any loss of excitability in the ventricular tissue : the condition often seems to be one in which the propagation of the contraction from the auricle to the ventricle is interrupted .
The ventricle then seems to remain quiescent , not because it is incapable of contracting , but because the contraction is not transmitted to it from the auricle and sinus .
The failure of transmission seems to occur at the junction of the ventricle with the rest of the heart\#151 ; at the mitral orifice .
This fact is of interest when considered in relation with the peculiar character of the muscular connexion between the ventricle and the rest of the heart \#151 ; a connexion which is established by means of an exceedingly narrow and prolonged isthmus of muscle substance .
Whether or not this peculiarity in structural arrangement is the cause of the frequent failure of conduction at this part is a question on which it would be premature to make a decided statement .
A similar failure of the ventricular sequence can usually be brought about by repeatedly heating the whole heart or the sinus and auricle alone .
Heat causes a great acceleration of the beat with a simultaneous enfeeblement .
When the contractions of the auricle and sinus have thus been rendered extremely weak , a complete suspension of the ventricular action is commonly seen .
When the auricular beats begin to recover their strength , the ventricle again begins to respond to each auricular beat , even though the auricular rate be still very rapid ; the ventricle contracts in sequence to each auricular beat if the auricular beats are tolerably strong .
The strength of the auricular beats seems to be a very important factor in regard to the question of the transmission of the contraction to the ventricle .
And this statement is borne out by a number of facts\#151 ; among others by a result which is often seen when the auricular beats are rendered excessively weak in consequence of their being elicited in rapid succession by artificial stimulation .
In VOL. XXXVIII .
i 114 Dr. J. A. Me William .
The Structure and Rhythm [ Jan. 29 , such circumstances the ventricular action is often completely suspended until such time as the auricular contractions are slower and consequently stronger .
When failure of the ventricular sequence has occurred ; , the normal order of events can often be restored for a time\#151 ; ( 1 ) by application of salt solution to the junction of the ventricle with the rest of the heart ; ( 2 ) by passage of an interrupted current through the same part ; or ( 3 ) by stimulation of the vagus nerve , leading to cardiac standstill , followed by a phase during which the normal ventricular sequence is restored .
Whether this result of vagus stimulation is due to a direct beneficial effect on the tissues or to the rest which has been afforded to the various parts , is not at present clear .
Failure of the ventricular sequence seems to be at times associated with a depressed excitability of the ventricle itself .
All the parts of the heart when isolated from one another can manifest the property of automatic rhythmical action , though this property is possessed by the different portions of the organ in very different degrees .
The excised ostial parts of the sinus go on beating at the ordinary rate of the heart 's rhythm .
The interjugular part when isolated exhibits ( after a short pause ) an independent rhythm which is slower than that of the ostial parts .
The prolongation of the sinus to the ventricle comes next with regard to rhythmic power ; then the auricle ; and finally the ventricle .
As regards the property of independent rhythmic contraction then , the various parts of the heart form a descending series , the highest term of which is the ostial part of the sinus ; the lowest term is the ventricle .
The high rhythmic power possessed by the sinus constitutes it the leader in the series of events that make up the cardiac beat .
Each contraction originating in the sinus of a normal intact heart spreads over the remaining parts of the organ , and thus leads to a rate of action in these parts identical with that in the sinus\#151 ; a rate of action very much more rapid than they could exhibit in virtue of their own independent rhythmic power .
III .
Some Points in the Behaviour of the Heart with regard to the Results of Direct Stimulation .
I shall here deal chiefly with the phenomena exhibited by the ventricle , reserving the consideration of the results obtained in the case of the auricle until the influence of the cardiac nerves has been discussed .
A single stimulation applied to the ventricle is followed by a single responsive beat .
If the ventricle experimented on forms part of an intact heart , the result of a single excitation is to cause a reversed beat of the heart , the ventricle contracting first .
And if the 1885 .
] of the Heart in Fishes , especially that of the Eel .
115 circulation is going on , a peculiar dark bulging of the ventricular wall occurs at the stimulated part ; this bulging occurs towards the latter part of the systole which results from the excitation .
This phenomenon occurs with great constancy and in well-marked form in all cases where the circulation is intact and the ventricle is well filled with blood .
It is not seen in the bloodless ventricle .
The momentary or continued application of pressure may cause the same result , even though the pressure be too weak to act as a direct stimulus leading to contraction of the part where it is applied ; the bulging may occur at the spot where pressure has been applied , even though the contraction of the heart occur in the normal fashion .
The rationale of the phenomenon in question seems to be that in the area where a direct stimulus or even pressure insufficient to act as a direct stimulus has been applied , the muscular contraction is much impaired in efficacy , and as a result that area is unable to resist the high intra-ventricular pressure which occurs during systole .
The area in question , therefore , becomes dilated with blood forced into it by the vigorous contraction of the rest of the ventricle ; hence the dark bulging apparent on the surface .
A somewhat similar bulging is occasionally to be seen in the ventricle of the frog as a result of strong direct stimulation .
The application of a strong direct stimulus ( e.g. , an induction shock ) to the ventricle is able to elicit a forced beat at almost any phase of the cardiac cycle .
In a spontaneously-acting heart the occurrence of a forced beat from ventricular stimulation is usually followed by a prolonged diastolic interval before the appearance of the next spontaneous beat .
In an intact and _ normally acting heart this diastolic prolongation observable on a ventricular tracing is not due directly to the properties of the ventricle ; it is due to the conduct of the leading part of the heart\#151 ; the sinus .
For the rate of contraction of the ventricle of an intact heart is determined by the sinus\#151 ; in which the contraction of the heart originates .
The property of exhibiting a prolonged diastolic interval after a forced beat is not , however , peculiar to the sinus .
It is equally well seen in the case of an isolated automatically-acting auricle or ventricle .
A similar phenomenon has been described in the case of the entire frog-heart , and has there been attributed by some observers to an influence of the nervous mechanism , * The contraction which occurs after the prolonged diastolic interval is frequently of markedly increased size .
When the heart is intact and the circulation going on , the form of curve yielded by an artificially excited ventricular beat ( resulting from direct stimulation of the apex of the ventricle ) is quite distinct from that traced by a beat which occurs in normal sequence to an auricular beat ; and the naked-eye characters of the beats obtained in the two instances are quite different .
i 2 116 Dr. J. A. MeWilliam .
The Structure and Rhythm [ Jan. 29 , Tracing shows difference in curves of normal and artificially-excited ( reversed ) 1 ventricular beats .
The two right-hand beats are spontaneous ones $ the two left-hand beats were caused by direct stimulation of the ventricle with single induction shocks .
The muscular tissue of the isolated ventricle presents some characters that are similar to those of the frog 's ventricle , , and some that are markedly different .
1 shall proceed to refer briefly to some points in the behaviour of the eel 's ventricle with regard to ( 1 .
) Single stimulations , electrical and mechanical .
( 2 .
) Faradisation with strong and weak currents .
( 3 .
) The constant current .
With regard to the effects of single stimulations on the quiescent ventricle , minimal stimulation is at the same time maximal\#151 ; as in the frog 's ventricle .
Induction shocks obtained with one Daniell 's cell in the primary circuit , when the secondary coil of the Du Bois Reymond 's induction machine completely covers the primary coil , give the same strength of contraction as do shocks obtained when the secondary coil is 10 cm .
removed from the first-mentioned position .
When the isolated quiescent ventricle is made to contract regularly by induction shocks at certain definite intervals ( e.y. , 10 seconds ) there is , as a rule , no progressive augmentation of the contraction force up to a maximum\#151 ; no staircase of beats ( " aufsteigende Treppe " of Bowditch ) , like that which is so conspicuously seen in the ventricle of the frog in similar circumstances .
In the quiescent ventricle of the eel 's heart the maximum beat is almost invariably obtained at once ; Tracing showing beats obtained from an isolated quiescent ventricle by stimulating it at intervals of 20 seconds with single induction shocks .
the beats elicited at regular intervals by a long consecutive series of shocks are almost always of exactly the same size , provided the interval between the successive shocks is sufficiently long to allow full recovery 1885 .
] of the Heart in Fishes , especially that of the Eel .
117 of the muscular tissue from the effects of the preceding contraction .
If the shocks follow each other too rapidly , the curves obtained assume the character of a descending series , resembling in the main a fatigue trace of an ordinary voluntary frog-muscle\#151 ; at least as far as the progressive diminution in the size of the beats is concerned .
When the ventricle has thus been reduced to a condition of fatigue , if the interval between the shocks be lengthened , the beats will for a time show a progressive increase in force , as more time is now allowed for the recovery of the tissue from the effects of contraction .
Whenever the recovery from the fatigued condition is complete , the beats remain of fixed strength , showing no alteration whatever as long as the conditions under which the experiment is conducted remain constant .
Mechanical stimulation of the quiescent ventricle gives the same results .
Only in one ventricle ( amongst a large number examined ) have I seen any trace of the " beneficial effect of contraction .
" And in that case the ventricle had sustained considerable mechanical injury before the experiment was begun .
In order to test further the properties of the ventricular muscle with regard to the production of a staircase of beats in response to a regular series of stimulations , I have many times repeated the experiment on a quiescent ventricle in the uninjured state filled with normal blood .
For this purpose the ventricle of a normally acting heart was rendered quiescent by stimulation of the vagus nerve\#151 ; a proceeding which , by arresting the action of the other parts of the heart , leads to ventricular standstill without ( as will be explained in the following pages ) influencing in any way its contraction force .
The standstill of the ventricle occurs simply as a result of the quiescence of the other parts of the heart from which the rhythmical contractions are normally propagated to the ventricle .
An uninjured ventricle that has been rendered quiescent in this way is presumably in a more normal state than an isolated ventricle artificially fed outside the body .
Such a ventricle , excited at regular intervals by a series of mechanical or electrical stimulations , gives a series of beats of precisely equal strength , the commencing beats of the series being maximal , and differing in no respect from the subsequent ones .
With regard to the effects of faradisation upon the ventricular tissue , some remarkable results are obtained .
A surprising influence is found to be exerted by the rate of interruption in the faradising current .
It is well known that in the case of ordinary voluntary muscle when a slowly interrupted current is applied , the muscle contracts at the rate at which the shocks are sent in .
And when a more rapidly interrupted current is employed , the muscle exhibits a more rapid 118 Dr. J. A. McWilliam .
The Structure and Rhythm [ Jan. 29 , succession of contractions\#151 ; in response to the more rapid series of shocks sent into it .
In short , the rate of contraction depends on the rate at which the stimulations are applied ; the quicker the series of shocks sent in , the quicker is the series of responsive contractions .
In the eel 's ventricle the phenomena are of a strikingly different nature .
For a slowly interrupted current is found to cause a much more rapid series of contractions than does a rapidly interrupted current of precisely equal strength .
When a rapidly interrupted current is sent through the quiescent ventricle ( of an eel 's heart ) , the rate of contraction induced varies within certain limits according to the strength of the current employed .
When a rapidly interrupted current ( e.g. , sixty shocks per second ) is used of such a strength as to cause a slow series of ventricular heats , it is found that a diminution in the rate of interruptions ( e.g. , to six per second ) , at once leads to the appearance of a much more rapid series of ventricular beats .
The number of contractions resulting from the application of the slowly interrupted current is much greater than that caused by a rapidly interrupted current ; the influence , moreover , of the former is much more lasting than the influence of the latter .
A much closer approach to a tetanic condition is induced by a slowly interrupted current than by a rapidly interrupted one .
And this statement holds with regard to ( 1 ) the ventricle of an intact heart ; ( 2 ) the isolated quiescent ventricle ; and ( 3 ) the isolated automatically-contracting ventricle .
It holds also with regard to various rates of interruption in the stimulating currents .
A current interrupted ten times a second is much more effective than one interrupted fifty times a second .
The rule holds , then , that\#151 ; within certain limits\#151 ; a slowly interrupted current , whether galvanic or faradic , produces much more striking effects than a rapidly interrupted one , the influence of the latter being much less powerful , and , at the same time , of a less enduring character .
It is not necessary when dealing with a slowly interrupted current that the shocks be sent in at any particular phases of the cardiac beat ; a series of shocks is simply sent in without regard to the state of the organ at the moment when each shock is sent in .
A very striking difference is also evident in the results obtained by the continued application of a weak interrupted current to the ventricle as compared with the repeated temporary application of the same current .
The latter is commonly able to induce a fairly rapid series of ventricular contractions when the former has no apparent effect at all or merely causes a very slow succession of beats .
These remarkable differences in the effects of interrupted currents are manifested not only in the case of the ventricle , but in the auricle and sinus as well\#151 ; in all the portions of the cardiac muscle .
As a result of the application of weak interrupted currents , I have observed no marked effect upon the ventricle of the eel 's heart .
There 1885.J of the Heart in Fishes , especially that of the Eel .
119 Tracing shows the contractions excited in an isolated quiescent ventricle by stimulating it with a rapidly interrupted current ( 50 interruptions per second ) .
Tracing shows the result of stimulating the same ventricle with a slowly interrupted current ( 5 interruptions per second ) of precisely the same strength .
is no evidence whatever of its having the slightest effect in weakening the contractions\#151 ; a result which has been shown to follow the application of a weak interrupted current to certain cardiac tissues , e.g. , the auricle of the tortoise and the ventricle of the frog .
In the case of the intact heart with the normal circulation going on , the passage of a constant current through the apex of the ventricle has been seen to be accompanied by a reversed order of contraction of the parts of the heart , the apex of the ventricle\#151 ; through which the current is passing\#151 ; being the portion which initiates the systole of the whole organ .
IV .
Action of the Cardiac Nerves .
All the nerve impulses affecting the heart appear to pass along the vagus nerve trunks .
Stimulation of the peripheral end of a cut vagus nerve exerts upon the heart an inhibitory influence of a very powerful nature .
The inhibitory phase is often followed by a phase during which the heart 's rhythm is accelerated .
Such an accelerating after effect of vagus stimulation is , however , slight in degree and variable in occurrence .
Stimulation of either the right or the left vagus is effective .
When continued stimulation of one vagus fails at length to keep the heart quiescent any longer , stimulation of the other vagus usually causes a further inhibition of the cardiac action .
The latent period of vagus stimulation appears to be short .
The vagus has a very low minimal stimulation ; a very weak interrupted current such as is insufficient ( when applied to the peripheral 120 Dr. J. A. McWilliam .
The Structure and Rhythm , [ Jan. 29 , !
end of a cut vagus nerve ) to cause contraction of the oesophagus , leads readily to cardiac standstill .
Single induction shocks to the vagus nerve have no distinct effect on the heart 's action unless the shocks are very powerful .
When arrested by vagus stimulation , the heart stands still in a state of diastole , and\#151 ; when the circulation is going on\#151 ; the whole heart* but more especially the auricle and sinus , become greatly distended with blood , if the inhibition be of any considerable duration .
The great veins also become much gorged ; they are very capacious , whilst the presence of dilatations upon the jugular veins ( jugular sinuses ) allows of the accommodation of a large amount of blood .
The effects of cardiac standstill on the circulation can readily be observed by fixing the transparent part of the animal 's tail under a microscope , and then inducing inhibition of the heart by stimulation of the vagus nerve , or simply by pressing on the gill\#151 ; a proceeding which causes reflex cardiac arrest .
When the heart stands still , there is a very gradual slowing of the blood-current which at length comes to a state of complete stagnation ; this result is not arrived at until the cardiac action has been completely stopped for a period of from one to two minutes .
When inhibition has passed away , and the heart 's action has recommenced , the blood-flow is very speedily restored ; the change is a much more rapid and abrupt one than the change observed when the heart was brought to a standstill ; the first recommencing beat causes a distinct movement of blood in the capillaries of the tail .
High intra-ventricular systolic pressure and distension of the heart with blood ( caused by clamping the branchial artery ) do not obviate the inhibitory effects of vagus stimulation .
The eel 's heart presents some striking peculiarities as regards its mode of recommencing action after it has been arrested through the medium of the inhibitory nerves .
It will be remembered that in the case of the frog , toad , rabbit , dog , when the heart 's action goes on after an inhibitory standstill , the various parts of the heart recommence action in the fashion in which they normally beat .
Thus in the frog , when the cardiac action recommences after a period of inhibition , the heart beats present their usual characters as regards the order of succession ; the contraction first affects the sinus , and then passes over the auricles and ventricle successively .
In the eel the mode of recommencing is , after slight inhibition , similar as a rule to that seen in the other animals mentioned , \#151 ; the contraction begins in the sinus ( ostial part ) and passes over the rest of the heart in the normal fashion .
But after profound inhibition the renewal of cardiac action presents features of an entirely different and very peculiar character .
For 1885 .
] of the Heart in Fishes , especially that of Eel .
121 when the heart recommences after a prolonged standstill , the order of contraction of the different part is , as a rule , markedly changed , and moreover , the contraction is for the first few beats restricted to certain parts of the organ .
The remaining parts of the heart remain quiescent for a time , and then come to participate in its activity ; the order of contraction generally remains modified , and it is only after a considerable though variable period that the ordinary succession of events again obtains in the contracting heart .
The part in which spontaneous contractile activity usually reappears after profound inhibition is not the ostial part of the sinus ( which ordinarily leads the rhythm of the heart ) , but the interjugular part of the sinus , which ordinarily contracts second in the series , i.e. , in succession to the leading ostial part .
The recommencing contraction is commonly\#151 ; at least after powerful inhibition\#151 ; confined for one or more beats to the interjugular parts ; it often extends , however , at the first beat from the interjugular part to the ventricle .
The beating of the inter jugular part , soon at least accompanied by responsive ventricle beats , goes on for a short though variable time without the slightest movement being perceptible in the auricle or in the ostial part of the sinus .
After a time the contraction originating in the interjugular part of the sinus spreads over the ostial part of the sinus , and soon afterwards over the auricle as well as over the ventricle , so that the whole heart is now in action , though the order of contraction of its various parts is not identical with that normally present .
For instead of the systole being initiated by the ostial beat , it is now initiated by the interjugular beat .
Soon , however , the ostial beat regains the precedence and the normal order of events is restored .
These phenomena seem to depend ( 1 ) on the unequal influence exerted by vagal stimulation on the different parts of the heart ; ( 2 ) on the high inherent rhythmic power of the inter jugular part ; and ( 3 ) on the existence of the anatomical and physiological connexion between the sinus and ventricle already mentioned .
The ventricle is not directly affected at all by vagus stimulation ; its excitability and contraction force remain quite unimpaired .
The inter jugular part and the path between it and the ventricle are less profoundly affected than are the auricle and ostial parts ; the former parts recover more readily from the inhibitory influence than do the latter .
Early released from inhibitory control , the interjugular part , in virtue of its high rhythmic power , begins to beat , and the contraction is soon propagated to the excitable ventricle .
Hence the appearance of the peculiar form of recommencement seen .
In various fishes besides the eel ( e.g. , carp ) I have observed a somewhat similar mode of recommencing action after inhibition .
The sinus and ventricle usually contract once or several times before 122 Dr. J. A. McWilliam .
The Structure and Rhythm [ Jan. 29 , any movement was perceptible in the auricle .
I have not seen a distinct division of the sinus into ostial and interjugular parts in any fish except the eel .
During the inhibitory standstill the condition of the various parts of the heart , as evidenced by the results of direct stimulation , is strikingly different from that observed in the hearts of those animalg in which cardiac inhibition has been chiefly studied .
In the frog-heart , for example , a single direct excitation applied to the heart during the inhibited phase produces a single beat ; the contraction begins at the stimulated point and extends over the whole organ .
And this result is obtained whether auricle or ventricle is stimulated .
In the eel 's heart the state of matters is more complex .
The ventricle resembles the frog-heart in giving a single beat in response to a single excitation ; its irritability and contraction force seem to be quite unaffected .
The inter jugular part , except when the heart is most powerfully inhibited , remains excitable to direct stimulation .
And contraction excited in the inter jugular part is usually propagated to the ventricle , whilst the auricle remains perfectly quiescent ; contraction excited in the ventricle is commonly propagated in a similar fashion to the interjugular part .
The ostial part of the sinus is , during strong inhibition , quite inexcitable to direct stimuli of all kinds , and so is the auricle .
The result of nerve stimulation has evidently in this instance been the peculiar one of temporarily abolishing the irritability of the muscular tissue .
Such a result is quite incompatible with the old conception of vagal action , viz. , that the vagus inhibited the motor discharges from the cardiac ganglia , and so brought the muscular tissue into a state of quiescence .
If such were the ease the muscle ought of course to respond readily to direct stimulation .
And this the auricular muscle signally fails to do .
It has been mentioned that during the inhibited state direct stimulation of the ventricle readily causes contraction of that part j the contraction originates at the stimulated point and spreads over the rest of the ventricle .
It does not pass over the auricle .
The nonparticipation of the auricle in the contraction cannot be explained by the assumption of a block between the auricle and ventricle preventing the contraction being propagated .
For if such were the case , if the auricle remained quiescent merely because the contraction failed to reach it , the auricular muscle ought to respond readily to direct stimulation .
But it has been shown that the auricular muscle is quite inexcitable , and that it is in such a state as to be quite incapable of responding to any contraction impulses that might reach it .
1885.1 of the Heart in Fishes , especially that of the Eel , 123 Effects of Vagal Stimulation on the Properties of the Muscular Tissue of the different Parts of the Heart .
In the investigation of these effects the cardiac action was registered by means of a simple arrangement of the graphic method .
Simultaneons tracings of the auricular and ventricular action were obtained by means of two writing levers suspended in the horizontal position by slender elastic bands ; these levers were brought into connexion with the auricle and ventricle respectively by threads .
In order to prevent locomotion of the heart it was sometimes necessary to afford a fixed point by holding in a clamp the bands passing into the dorsal aspect of the auricle .
At times a simultaneous record of the contractions of the auricle and ventricle was obtained by a single writing lever : ( 1 ) by attaching the threads from the auricle and ventricle to the same lever , or ( 2 ) by connecting the lever by the auricle alone ( by means of a thread ) , and then firmly fixing the apex of the ventricle .
The auricular and ventricular beats are then recorded on a single tracing .
I shall take each part of the heart in succession , and briefly consider the effects observed in each .
( 1 .
) Effects of Vagus Stimulation on the Ventricular Muscle .
A large number of experiments have clearly shown that the ventricle is not directly affected by stimulation of the vagus nerve .
As has been already mentioned , the automatic rhythmic power of the ventricle is low , and the ordinary rate of action of this part in the intact heart results not from the spontaneous rhythm of the ventricle itself , but in consequence of the rapid action of the sinus and auricle , from which parts the contraction is propagated to the ventricle .
The ventricular contraction is started off by the other parts of the heart ; its inherent rhythmic power remains latent .
It is obvious then that an arrest of the action of the other parts of the heart would at once lead to a suspension of the ventricular activity .
The ventricle , deprived of the impulses which ordinarily start off its contraction , must necessarily stand still until such time as the stai'ting off impulses come again into play , or until its latent automatic rhythm begins to manifest itself\#151 ; an event which , in ordinary circumstances , would not occur for a very considerable length of time .
So that with regard to the Suspension of the ventricular rhythm caused by vagus stimulation , the removal of the normally efficient cause of that rhythm is the reason of the ventricular standstill , i.e. , the ventricle stands still because the other parts of the heart have stopped action .
The excitability of the ventricular muscle during inhibition of the 124 Dr. J. A. McWilliam .
, The Structure and Rhythm [ Jan. 29 , heart seems ( from a comparison of the results obtained by direct stimulation in the normal and inhibited states ) to be unchanged .
A contraction can be elicited by a direct stimulus applied during the inhibitory standstill quite as readily as in the normal condition of the heart .
Upon the contraction force of the ventricular muscle , stimulation of the vagus nerve seems to be entirely .without effect .
Yentricle tracing showing inhibition resulting from stimulation of vagus nerve .
The recommencing beats are seen to be large .
When a heart which is beating at a fairly rapid rate , is slowed by very gentle vagal stimulation , the ventricular beats are larger proportionately to the slowing\#151 ; up to a certain maximum .
The increase in the force of the beats is dependent on the slowing ; it occurs when the heart is slowed by means other than by vagal influence , e.g. , by the application of cold to the sinus .
It is the converse of what occurs during rapid action of the heart , such as may result from the application of heat to the sinus , or may follow vagal inhibition as an after effect .
During rapid action of the heart the ventricular beats become smaller in proportion to the increased rates , until at length , if the acceleration is excessive , the recording lever writes a mere wavy line on the smoked paper .
When the heart is arrested by vagus stimulation , and the ventricle is made to contract by a direct stimulus , the force of the beat so elicited is , even during the most powerful inhibition , quite as large as the ordinary beats occurring spontaneously before the standstill .
Indeed an artificial beat elicited during inhibition is generally larger than the spontaneous beats occurring before inhibition , just as the beats occurring during a very slow cardiac rhythm are larger than those seen during a quicker rhythm .
A rapid artificial rhythm induced in the ventricle during inhibition of the heart shows a diminution in the size of the rapidly recurring beats , corresponding to what is seen in a rapid natural rhythm .
1885.1 of the Heart in Fishes , especially that of the Eel .
Ventricular tracing showing an inhibitory standstill\#151 ; a result of vagus stimulation .
The beat marked + was elicited by direct stimulation of the ventricle during the period of inhibition .
( 2 .
) Effects of Vagal Stimulation on the Auricle .
The auricle , though possessing an inherent rhythmic power of its own , has this independent rhythm masked and rendered latent ( like the lower rhythmic power of the ventricle ) by the more rapid rhythmical lead of the sinus .
The auricle then is , in consequence of the rapid action of the sinus , made to beat at a considerably quicker rate than it would otherwise do in virtue of its own inherent rhythm .
When the vagus is strongly stimulated , and the whole heart brought to a standstill , the auricle becomes relaxed , and a marked diminution of its ordinary tone is evident .
It stands still not merely in the way the ventricle does because of the arrest of the dominant part which normally starts off its contraction , but because of a profound influence directly exerted on its muscular tissue .
Its inherent rhythmic power is markedly depressed , for vagal stimulation can keep the auricle in a motionless state much longer than would be required for the exhibition of its independent rhythmic power .
If the auricle merely stopped in consequence of the stoppage of the sinus , and if the inherent auricular rhythmic power was intact , an independent action would very soon be exhibited by the auricular tissue .
It is obvious that this inherent automatic rhythmic property is held in abeyance by vagal stimulation .
Moreover , there occurs in the auricle a striking depression of the excitability of the muscular tissue as tested by direct stimulation .
The auricular excitability is , during strong inhibition , annulled for the time being .
Such a loss of excitability does not depend on overdistension of the auricle with blood during the cardiac standstill ; it occurs in the bloodless auricle as well .
As the inhibitory phase is passing away direct stimulation of the auricle leads to localised contraction in the stimulated area .
These contractions seem to be localised in consequence of the great depression of excitability which still pervades the auricular tissue , and prevents the contraction from spreading over the whole auricle as it would do in the normal state .
.Very weak stimulation of the vagus nerve causes a distinct depres126 Dr. J. A. Me William .
The Structure and Rhythm [ Jan. 29 sion of the auricular excitability without any absolute suspension of that excitability .
*Very weak vagal stimulation is often able to cause the auricle to beat more slowly than the rest of the heart , or to stop action for a time while the other parts of the organ go on beating .
At high temperatures ( 29\#151 ; 33 ' 0 .
, \amp ; c. ) the auricular excitability to direct stimulation does not seem to be depressed during cardiac stand-still brought about by vagus stimulation .
Tracing of auricle showing vagal inhibition .
The beats marked + were elicited by direct stimulation ( single induction shocks ) applied to the auricle before its action had recommenced .
It will be seen that the auricular beats continue to be of diminished size for some time after the spontaneous action has recom-menced .
Yagal stimulation is also able to depress very markedly the contraction force of the auricular muscle .
Any beats that can be elicited by strong direct stimulation ( when the inhibitory phase is passing away ) are much diminished in size , and the beats with which the auricular action recommences are as a rule very small ones ; they gradually increase till they regain the normal size .
The depressing effect Qn the contraction force accompanying vagal inhibition occurs both in the intact heart and in the bloodless auricle ; it is not due to over-distension during the inhibitory period .
The conduction power of the auricle is , during inhibition , temporarily abolished .
MMBBHgBB Tracing showing the contractions of both auricle and ventricle .
The large beats are those of the ventricle ; the smaller ones between the large heats are those of the auricle .
The effects of vagal inhibition are shown .
The recommencing auricular heats are much diminished in size ; the recommencing ventricular heats are large .
These primary depressing effects of vagal stimulation on the auricular tissue are by far the most constant and powerful ones ; the secondary accelerating effects are slight and variable .
The increase .
1885 .
] of the Heart in Fishes , especially that of the Eel .
127 in the rate of the auricular action , which is at times seen as a secondary-effect of vagal stimulation , does not depend on the auricle itself , the inherent auricular rhythm being latent ; the acceleration depends on the increased rate of action of the sinus which leads the cardiac beat .
I shall here mention some results obtained by the application of electricity to the auricular tissue .
Single induction shocks ( as well as mechanical or thermal stimuli ) applied to the normal auricle during its diastole cause a single contraction , accompanied as in the ventricle by a bulging of the auricular wall at the point of stimulation .
The passage of a weak interrupted current produces some peculiar effects in the auricle .
For when an interrupted current of suitable strength is sent through any part of the auricle , that part immediately stands still , becoming distended with blood , while the rest of the auricle goes on beating as before .
By gradually increasing the strength of the current a wider and wider area can be inhibited , until at length the whole auricle becomes arrested , while the sinus and ventricle may still go on beating .
Any escape of the current to the sinus will , however , cause a stoppage of the whole heart .
When local inhibition is brought about in the auricle in the way mentioned , there is a marked change in the excitability of the inhibited area , as well as a suspension of its rhythmic activity .
Its excitability to direct stimulation is greatly depressed or temporarily annulled ; the application of a direct stimulus commonly fails to induce any contraction .
The inhibited tissue seems to be in a state similar to that into which the whole auricle is thrown by stimulation of the vagus nerve .
The action of the inhibited area is not usually resumed for some little time after the discontinuing of the inhibitory current .
When a projecting corner of the auricle is dealt with , and the electrodes are applied at the points indicated by the letters E and E , only part of the projecting piece of auricle is , as a rule , thrown out of action .
The shaded part becomes arrested , while the remainder goes on contracting in unison with the rest of the auricle .
128 The Structure and Rhythm of the Heart in Fishes .
[ Jan. 29 Poisoning with curare ( a minimal dose ) prevents the occurrence of local inhibition in the auricle as a result of the passage of a weak interrupted current .
And when an isolated piece of auricle exhibiting an independent rhythm is subjected to the influence of a weak interrupted current , its behaviour differs markedly from that of the same piece of tissue whilst it formed part of an intact auricle , for in the case of an automatically contracting isolated piece of auricle the application of a weak interrupted current produces no inhibitory effect .
When the current is strengthened a depression of the contraction force is induced , but the rhythm remains unchecked , unless , perhaps , by very strong currents .
The rhythm may even be accelerated , and when very strong currents cause an apparent standstill , it is doubtful whether this standstill is due to a true inhibition of rhythm .
( 3 .
) Effects of Vagus Stimulation on the Sinus .
A. On the Interjugular Part .
During the inhibitory standstill of the heart the interjugular part is directly affected by nerve influence ; it does not merely stop action because the leading parts have stopped .
During vagus stimulation there is a marked depression of the inherent rhythmic tendency .
The interjugular part can , by vagus stimulation , be kept quiescent for a very much longer time than would be required for the manifestation of the independent rhythm of the part ; there is evidently an inhibition of the inherent rhythmic property .
This depression of rhythmic power seems to pass off from the inter jugular part earlier than it does from the neighbouring ostial parts .
As a result Of vagal stimulation the excitability , of the interjugular part ( as well as its inherent rhythmic power ) is depressed .
During moderate excitation of the vagus nerve the inter jugular part responds less readily to a direct stimulus , and during powerful inhibition the interjugular part fails to contract at all on the application of a direct excitation .
Moreover , when recommencing action begins after a prolonged inhibitory standstill , the contraction is often seen to begin at the dorsal aspect of the inter jugular part , and to be for a time limited to a small area of the tissue ; at each succeeding beat the contraction extends , and soon involves the whole interjugular part .
Such facts indicate the occurrence during inhibition of a marked depression of the excitability of the part .
As a secondary effect of vagus stimulation , there is sometimes a distinct increase in the rhythmic power , and probably also in the excitability of the interjugular part .
The passage of an interrupted current through the interjugular pai't very readily brings about an arrest of the whole heart .
A very weak current is sufficient for this purpose ; frequently a current too On the Skull in the Mammalia .
1885 .
] weak to be perceived on the tongue causes prolonged cardiac standstill .
The passage of a constant current through the inter jugular part appears to cause an acceleration in the rhythm .
B. Effects of Vagus Stimulation on the Ostial Parts of the Sinus .
When either the right or left vagus nerve is stimulated the rhythmic power of both the right and left ostial parts is completely suspended for a time .
The excitability to direct stimulation also is temporarily annulled ; no contraction is caused by the application of even a powerful direct excitation .
; As a secondary effect of vagus stimulation there often occurs a marked heightening in the rhythmic power of the ostial parts , and a consequent acceleration of the rate of the heart 's action .
Probably thei*e is also in some instances an increase in the excitability of the ostial parts .
| Weak or strong interrupted currents applied to the ostial part cause an immediate arrest of the heart 's action , with the usual features of the inhibited state .
Such a result is obviated by the administration of curare .
III .
" On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Mammalia .
Part III .
Insectivora .
" By W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received January 15 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) Although this paper is confessedly only a fraction of what is necessary to be done in this polymorphic order , it shows at least how difficult a group it is to handle .
For the Insectivora are set in the midst of the other Mammalia\#151 ; low and high , They might be called the Biological stepping-stones from the Metatheria to the Eutheria .
One thing can be done , even now , with our present fragmentary knowledge of the structure and development of the Insectivorous types \#166 ; \#151 ; we can assure ourselves that these types are immediately above the Marsupials , that they have the Bats ( Chiroptera ) obliquely above them , that their nearest relations must be sought for amongst extinct Eocene forms , and that , lowly as they are , and arrested and often dwarfed to the uttermost ( so that nature could not safely go further in that direction ) , they are rich in prophetic characters that have come to perfection in larger and nobler types .
I think it will not be denied that in the ascent of the types the j Chiroptera are above the Insectivora , and , as it were , a sort of special TOL .
XXXVIII .
K '

