424 Dr. L. Brunton and Mr. S. Delepine .
Changes [ Apr. 26 , VII .
" Report on some of the Changes produced on Liver Cells by the Action of some Organic and Inorganic Compounds .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and S. Delepine , M.B. Received March 14 , 1834 .
W e have , on a former occasion , given an account of the scope of the investigation , and of the methods used , of some preliminary observations* which we have found it necessary to make .
Briefly speaking , our object was to ascertain the action of drugs on the cells of the liver and to connect , if possible , the changes in the cells with the physiological action of the drugs and their chemical structure .
Certain drugs were selected by one of us ( Brunton ) as being most suitable for this investigation .
These drugs were the following : Benzene ... ... ... ... ... ... Phenol ... ... ... ... a ... ... .
Toluene ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Aniline ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Toluylene diamine ( meta ) C6H3 Chrysophanic acid ... ... ... Pilocarpine nitrate ... ... .
Atropine ... ... ... ... ... ... Ammonia ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Ammonium chloride ... ... ... Nitric acid ... ... ... ... ... Sodium iodide ... ... ... ... .
C6H5-H c6h5-oh c6h5-ch3 c6h5-nh2 ch3 ( 1 ) NH2 ( 3 ) NH2 ( 4 ) C10H4O4 CuH16N203-HN03 ( C17H23N03)2H2S0i nh3 nh4-ci hno3 Nal We have recorded the various appearances which ive have observed as the result of the purely physiological stimulation of the liver produced by the ingestion and digestion of a meal , and have noticed that the most important changes indicating various states of activity were : 1 .
The size of the cells .
2 .
The distinctness of the mitoma and of the cellular cleavage .
specting the structures that distinguish Lepidodendron from Lepidophloios .
Some trust to the several forms of the sections of the leaves , leaf-scars and leaf-cushions ; others to the upward or downward directions taken by the elongated portions of the leaves .
In fact the question demands a more critical and conclusive investigation than it has yet received.\#151 ; Note , April 19 , 1894 .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' Oct. 22 , 1891 , vol. 50 , p. 209 , and Paper placed in the Archives .
1894 .
] produced on Liver Cells by Compounds .
425 3 .
The size and arrangement of the meshes of the mitoma of the cells .
4 .
The size of the biliary canaliculi .
5 .
The amount and distribution of the glycogen in the cells and in the lobules of the organ .
6 .
The amount and distribution of granules giving the reaction characteristic of inorganic ferric salts.* We also recorded changes affecting other parts , but we need not consider them for the present .
We will now give an account of the appearances produced in the liver soon after the administration of the compounds mentioned above , either subcutaneously , by the rectum , or by the mouth ( the latter in only two cases):\#151 ; 1 .
To rabbits that had taken a moderate amount of food ( 50 grams of carrots from 7 to 9 hrs .
before death\#151 ; in two cases only the time was less than 7 hrs .
) ; 2 .
To rabbits that had not been fed for at least 24 hrs .
before death .
To estimate the changes produced , the organs of animals to which drugs had been administered were compared in each case with those of animals in the same stage of digestion , but to which no drug had been administered .
Thus , when we say that a drug causes an enlargement of the meshes of the mitoma , or renders them more distinct or indistinct , or causes an accumulation of iron , we always mean that the state in which the cells would have been at the same stage of digestion has been modified in the direction indicated .
As the measurements of cells and parts of cells necessitate the careful drawing of a large number of cells with the camera lucida , the report , in its final shape , cannot yet be given , but , as all the appearances observed have been taken note of during the progress of the investigation , we are in position to give an idea of the results which have so far been obtained , but which we are not yet able to express in numbers , and compare as accurately as we hope to do when all our measurements are completed .
Action of Pilocarpine on a Fasting Liver .
A.\#151 ; Last food given 25 hrs .
before death .
Pilocarpine nitrate ( grain S = gram 0042 , dissolved in 10 c.c. of water ) was injected into the rectum 1 hr .
and 28 mins , before death .
* Loc .
cit. , and also " Contribution to the Study of the Yertebrate Liver , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' Nov. 20 , 1890 , vol. 49 , p. 64 ; " On the Normal Storage of Iron in the Liver , " ' Practitioner , ' vol. 45 , p. 94 .
426 Dr. L. Brunton and Mr. S. Delepine .
Changes [ Apr. 26 .
B.\#151 ; There were very few psorosperms in the liver , which was of small size .
Cells small , or of medium size .
Outlines of the cells and the mitoma much clearer than normal .
Meshes of the mitoma pretty large ; some grouped round the lateral bile canaliculi .
Main and lateral bile canaliculi very distinct and very large .
Glycogen reaction normal , i.e. , doubtful and diffuse .
Only slight traces of sugar could be obtained in 24 hrs .
after death .
Iron reaction less marked than normal .
0.\#151 ; The state of the mitoma of the cells , and the amount of iron indicate secretory activity .
This may be taken as a type of liver in a state of secretory activity .
Action of Pilocarpine on a Fasting Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last food given about 26 hrs .
before death , the food not eaten being removed 17 hrs .
before death .
( This is an exception to the rule generally followed .
) Subcutaneous injection of \ grain of pilocarpine ( a little more than gram 0 03 ) was given 1 hr .
30 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver apparently healthy .
Cells large and swollen looking .
Outline of the cells and the cellular extremely distinct .
Meshes of the mitoma very large .
Pile canaliculi large and distinct .
C. \#151 ; These changes correspond to those observed in an active liver , and may be taken to indicate secretory activity .
Action of Pilocarpine on a Fed Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last food given 7 hrs .
before death .
Death blow 2 hrs .
43 mins , after a first subcutaneous injection of S grain ( gram 0 042 ) of pilocarpine ( a second injection of the same quantity Laving been given 38 mins , before death ) .
B. \#151 ; Liver moderately diseased , containing a few large psorospermic masses , and being somewhat above the average size .
Cells generally large but variable in size .
Outlines of cells and the mitoma even more distinct than normal .
Meshes of the mitoma large , specially round the nuclei .
Pile canaliculi indistinct .
1\lt ; S94 .
] produced on Liver Cells by various Compounds .
427 Glycogen reaction about normal , slightly diminished .
Sugar reaction , 24 hrs .
post m-ort .
, slightly diminished .
Iron reaction much diminished , both in the diffuse and in the granular form .
C.\#151 ; The changes produced in the fed liver correspond closely with those observed in the fasting organ , and may be taken as typical of secretory activity .
Action of Toluene on a Fasting Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last meal 31 hrs .
before death .
Rectal injection of 1 gram ( 15'5 grains ) of toluene suspended in 10 c.c. of thin mucilage , 56 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver of moderate size , with pretty abundant psorospermic lesions .
Cells small and medium sized .
Outline and mitoma clear , much clearer than normal .
A few large meshes , specially grouped round the nucleus .
Bile canaliculi not generally distinct , when distinct very narrow .
Glycogen reaction distinct round the hepatic vein , and therefore increased .
Sugar formed in 24 hrs .
post much more abundant than normal .
Iron reaction almost absent , and therefore less than normal .
0.\#151 ; The action resembles somewhat that of pilocarpine , but differs from it on account of the increase of glycogen .
Action of Toluene on the Fasting Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last meal 20 hrs .
before death .
Subcutaneous injection of about 0'06 grain ( i.e. , about 0*9 grain ) of pure toluene 4 hrs .
45 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver apparently not diseased .
Cells pretty large .
Outline of cells and mitoma more distinct than normal .
Meshes of mitoma a little larger than normal .
Bile canaliculi very distinct .
Blood capillaries rather congested .
C. \#151 ; There is stimulation of the cells resembling , to a certain extent , that produced by pilocarpine , but much less marked .
428 Dr. L. Brunton and Mr. S. Delepine .
Changes [ Apr. 26 , Action of Toluene on a Fed Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last food 8 hrs .
before death .
Subcutaneous injection of about 006 gram of pure toluene 4 hrs .
53 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver apparently not diseased .
Cells rather small .
Outline of cells and mitoma distinct .
Meshes large .
Bile canaliculi distinct here and there .
Blood capillaries excessively congested .
C. \#151 ; With the exception of the size of the blood capillaries , there is no very marked departure from the normal .
Action of Benzol on a Starving Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last meal 31 hrs .
before death ( a few very small bits of carrots were unfortunately left within reach of the animal during injection ) .
Rectal injection of 1'15 gram ( i.e. 17-8 grains ) of benzol , suspended in 10 c.c. of tbin mucilage 2 hrs .
30 mins , before death .
Subcutaneous injection of about 0*5 c.c. of pure benzol 2 hrs .
5 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver large , with abundant psorospermic lesions .
Cells pretty large .
Mitoma and outline distinct , much more so than normal .
Meshes of mitoma large .
Bile canaliculi very distinct , main canaliculi in portal zone .
^ Glycogen reaction very slightly increased , diffuse .
Sugar formed in 24 hrs .
postmort .
, very little , about normal .
Iron reaction very slight , normal ?
C. \#151 ; The action is very similar to that of pilocarpine in every respect .
Note.\#151 ; In this case it is possible that the munching of a few bits of carrot may have stimulated the liver ; but the quantity so ingested was very small , and probably had no distinct effect .
Action of Benzol on a Fed Liver .
A.\#151 ; Last meal 8 hrs .
34 mins , before death .
Rectal injection of 1 gram of benzol , suspended in 10 c.c. of thin mucilage , 1 hr .
before death .
1894 .
] produced on Liver Cells by various Compounds .
429 B. \#151 ; Liver very large , the largest observed .
Psorospermic lesions in moderate amount .
Cells very large , swollen-looking .
Mi tout a and outline of cells very clear .
Meshes of mitoma large , specially round the nucleus .
Bile canaliculi indistinct .
Glycogen reaction very abundant round hepatic vein , somewhat diffuse elsewhere .
Sugar produced post mort .
in 24 hrs .
less than normal .
Iron reaction much diminished .
C. \#151 ; This action resembles closely that of pilocarpine .
Action of Sodium Iodide on a Fasting Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last meal 25 hrs .
before death .
Bectal injection of 1*75 grams ( [ i. , about 27 grains ) of iodide of sodium dissolved in 10 c.c. of water 1 hr .
before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver medium sized , with very few psorospermic lesions .
Cells medium sized .
Mitoma and outline of cells pretty distinct .
Meshes of mitoma generally medium sized , some very large round the nuclei .
Bile canaliculi distinct at places but very small .
Glycogen , slight amount round the hepatic vein .
Sugar formed in 24 hrs .
post mort .
, the largest quantity produced except after toluylene diamine .
Iron reaction very indistinct , less than normal .
C. \#151 ; Resembles pilocarpine except as regards the tendency of accumulation of glycogen .
Action of Sodium Iodide on a Fed Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last meal 7 hrs .
40 mins , before death .
Bectal injection of 2 grams ( 31 grains ) of sodium iodide dissolved in 10 c.c. of water 42 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver larger than normal , psorospermic lesions very few .
Cells irregular , some very large , some small , angular .
Mitoma and outline of cells very distinct , more so than normal .
Meshes of the mitoma large , some very large round nuclei .
Bile canaliculi indistinct .
Glycogen , largest amount seen in any liver .
Sugar formed in 24 hrs .
post mart .
, large amount , perhaps a little more than normal .
430 Dr. L. Brunton and Mr. S. Delepine .
Changes [ Apr. 23 .
Iron reaction very slight , less than normal .
C.\#151 ; Action resembles that of pilocarpine , but in addition there is a marked tendency to accumulation of glycogen .
Action of ChrysophanicAcid on a Fasting Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last meal 28 hrs .
before death ( animal allowed to eat a small bit of carrot during the injection ) .
Rectal injection of 0'1 gram ( i.e. , about 11 grains ) of chrysophanic acid suspended in 10 c.c. of thin mucilage 2 hrs .
23 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver moderately large with very few psorospermic lesions .
Cells generally small or medium sized .
Outline of cells and mitomaclear , much more so than normal .
Meshes of mitoma generally small , a few large ones round the nucleus .
Bile canaliculi , main and lateral distinct .
Glycogen reaction increased , slight round the hepatic veins .
Sugar formed in 24 hrs .
post mort .
, more abundant than normal .
Iron reaction very slight , less than normal .
C. \#151 ; This action resembles that of pilocarpine .
Action of Ammonium Chloride on a Fasting Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last meal 28 hrs .
before death .
Rectal injection of 1 gram ( 15'5 grains ) of ammonium chloride dissolved in 10 c.c. of water 2 hrs .
before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver small , with very few psorospermic lesions .
Cells large .
Mitoma and outline of cells pretty distinct .
Meshes of mitoma large in some places .
Bile canaliculi generally indistinct .
Glycogen doubtful diffuse reaction ( normal ) .
Sugar formed in 24 hrs .
post mort .
, very little ( normal ) .
Iron reaction slight , about normal .
C. \#151 ; Stimulation of the cells is indicated by the changes in the mitoma , similar to , but not so marked , as those produced by pilocarpine .
Action of Ammonium Chloride on a Fed Liver .
A.\#151 ; Last meal 9 hrs .
20 mins , before death .
1894 .
] produced on Liver Cells by various Compounds .
431 Rectal injection of 1 gram of chloride of ammonium in 10 c.c. of water ( sp. gr. 1025 ) 1 hr .
5 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver large , with few psorospermic lesions .
Cells large , looking swollen .
Mitomaand outline of cells very distinct ( more than normal ) .
Meshes of mitoma large round the nucleus .
Bile canaliculi narrow , distinct only in portal zone .
Glycogen abundant , chiefly round the hepatic ( more than normal ) .
Sugar formed in 24 hrs .
post mort .
, large amount ( a little above normal ) .
Iron reaction entirely absent ( much less than normal ) .
C. \#151 ; This is a stimulating action similar to that of pilocarpine , but there seems to he in addition a tendency to the accumulation of glycogen .
\#166 ; Action of Toluylene Diamine ( ) on a Fasting Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last mead 29 hrs .
before death .
4 hrs .
10 mins , before death , gram 0'5 ( grains 7f ) , suspended in 10 c.c. of mucilage , injected per rectum .
3 hrs .
36 mins , before death , gram 0'06 ( .
, 1 grain ) , dissolved in 5 drops of benzol injected subcutaneously .
20 mins , before death , gram 0'06 given in a slice of carrot .
B. \#151 ; Liver large , with pretty abundant psorospermic lesions .
Cells generally large , but variable in size .
Mitoma and outside of cells not very distinct , but clearer than normal .
Meshes of mitoma medium sized , larger than normal .
Bile canalicidi indistinct .
Glycogen reaction well marked round the hepatic vein , more marked than normal .
Sugar formed in 24 hrs .
post mold , more abundant than normal .
Iron reaction almost entirely absent .
C.\#151 ; The action of toluylene diamine in this case resembles that of pilocarpine , except as regards the production of sugar post mort .
Action of Toluylene Diamine ( Meta ) on a Fasting Liver .
A. \#151 ; Animal killed 24 hrs .
after its last meal .
A little under gram 0'5 ( = 7 grains ) , finely divided , and suspended in 10 c.c. of water , injected per rectum 2 hrs .
13 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver moderately large , a pretty large number of psorospermic lesions were present .
Cells generally large .
432 Dr. L. Branton and Mr. S. Delepine .
Changes [ Apr. 20 , Mitomaand outline of cells more distinct than normal .
Meshes large .
Bile canaliculi where distinct small , but generally indistinct .
Glycogen reaction increased immediately round the hepatic vein .
Post-mortem 'production of sugar in 24 hours more marked than in any other case .
Iron reaction almost absent .
C.\#151 ; With the exception of the post mort .
production of sugar this action resembles closely that of pilocarpine .
Action of Toluylene Diamine ( Meta ) on a Diver immediately after the tahing of Food .
A. \#151 ; Last ordinary meal 25 hrs .
before death ; 17 30 mins , before death the animal was given carrots with gram 0'09 of toluylene diamine ; 1 hr .
30 mins , before death a new dose of 0'06 gram of toluylene diamine was given with 10 grams of carrots by the mouth .
B. \#151 ; Liver pretty large , psorospermic lesions pretty abundant .
Cells large .
Mitoma and outline very distinct .
Meshes large , chiefly round the nucleus .
Bile canaliculi generally indistinct ; where distinct , small .
Glycogen reaction slight round the hepatic vein ( about normal ) .
Sugar formed in 24 hrs .
post mort .
, more abundant than normal .
Iron reaction entirely absent , normal .
C. \#151 ; Action similar to that of pilocarpine , with the exception of the production of sugar post mort .
Action of Nitric Acid on a Starving Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last meal 25 hrs .
before death .
Pedal injection of 1 c.c. of nitric acid diluted in 10 c.c. of water ( sp. gr. 1024 ) , 1 hr .
15 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver large , with few psorospermic lesions .
Cells small or medium-sized .
Mitoma and outline of cells not very distinct , but more so than normal .
Meshes of mitoma distinctly larger than normal .
Bile canaliculi , main very distinct , lateral often distinct .
Glycogen reaction doubtful , diffuse , normal .
Sugar formed post mort .
in 24 hrs .
, very small amount , about normal .
Iron reaction very slight , less than normal .
C. \#151 ; The action resembles much that of pilocarpine .
1894 .
] produced on Liver Cells by various Compounds .
433 Action of Nitric Acid on a Fed Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last food 7 hrs .
45 mins , before death .
j 'dedal injection of 05 c.c. of nitric acid diluted with 10 c.c. of water ( sp. gr. 1011 to 1012 ) 50 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver medium size , quite healthy .
Cells large , swollen looking .
Mitoma and outline of cells very clear , normal .
Meshes of mitoma large round the nucleus ( normal ) .
Bile canaliculiindistinct .
Glycogen very slightly increased .
Sugar formed in 24 hrs .
post mort .
, normal amount .
Iron reaction much less than normal .
C. \#151 ; This action resembles closely that of pilocarpine .
Action of Aniline on a Starved Liver .
A. This experiment is not quite comparable with the others .
A rabbit , after being treated in the usual way , received an injection of 1 gram of acetate of ammonium per rectum , and 20 mins , afterwards another T5 gram .
This apparently produced no effect , and the rabbit was not killed .
It was then fed 42 hrs .
before its death ; f hr .
before it was killed , 1 gram of aniline thoroughly mixed with water was injected into the rectum .
This produced well-marked symptoms , as in XXIII .
B. \#151 ; There were few psorospermic lesions , the liver was very small .
Cells unequal ; some small , some medium size .
Miiomaand outlines of cells indistinct generally , but distinct at places .
Meshes generally small .
Main bile canaliculi distinct in the portal zone .
Glycogen reaction indistinct , diffuse .
Sugar produced in 24 hrs .
post mort .
, very small .
Iron reaction considerably increased .
C. The secretory activity of the liver did not seem to be much affected by aniline , but this substance seems to have had destructive action on some cells , and has caused a considerable splitting of organic compounds containing iron .
In certain parts the cells were dropsical and possibly necrosed .
Action of Aniline on a Fasting Liver .
A.\#151 ; Last meal 25 hrs .
before death .
1 gram ( 15'5 grains ) of pure aniline mixed with 10 c.c. of water injected into the rectum 1 hr .
32 mins , before death .
434 Dr. L. Brunton and Mr. S. Delepine .
Changes [ Apr. 26 , ]3._Liver of small size with only a few psorospermic lesions .
Liver cells medium sized .
Outline of cells and mitoma indistinct normal in appearance ) .
Meshes of the mitoma small , normal in appearance .
Bile canaliculi , main and lateral , very distinct .
Glycogen reaction doubtful , diffuse , normal .
Sugar produced in 24 hrs .
post mort .
a little more than normal .
Iron reaction slight and round hepatic veins , normal .
C.\#151 ; Aniline in this case does not seem to have produced any marked effect on the liver .
Action of Phenol on a Fasting Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last food given 25 hrs .
before death .
Rectal injection of O'83 gram ( about 12 grains ) of absolute phenol dissolved in 10 c.c. of water 46 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Moderate amount of psorospermic lesions .
Liver moderately large .
Cells small , but not below normal .
Mitoma and outline of cells indistinct , but not more so than normal .
Meshes of mitoma generally small , irregular .
Glycogen reaction indistinct , about normal .
Sugar produced in 24 hrs .
post mort .
very slightly increased .
Iron reactions not very distinct , altered .
C. \#151 ; Phenol does not seem in this case to produce marked alterations of secretory activity .
-Rote.\#151 ; The cells are in many places much vacuolated , breaking down , and probably in a state of incipient necrosis .
Action of Phenol on a Fed Rabbit .
A\#151 ; Time of last meal , 7 hrs .
15 mins , before death .
0-5 gram ( about 7f grains ) of phenol dissolved m 10 c.c. of water injected into the rectum 50 mins , before death .
B.\#151 ; Psorospermic lesions of the liver moderately abundant .
Organ large .
Cells large .
Outline of cells and mitoma clear , but less so than normal .
Size of the meshes of the mitoma a little less than normal .
Bile canaliculi generally indistinct .
Glycogen reaction much diminished and diffuse .
1894 .
] produced on Liver Cells by various Compounds .
435 Sugar obtained in 24 hrs .
post mort .
, a little more than half the normal amount .
Iron reaction considerably increased .
C.\#151 ; Phenol in this case evidently interfered with constructive metabolism , and caused an increased decomposition of organic compounds containing iron .
IIote.\#151 ; In this case there were also evidences of beginning necrosis of patches of liver cells .
Action of Atropine on a Fed Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last food given 5 hrs .
45 mins , before death .
6 hrs .
30 mins , before death a subcutaneous injection of of a grain was given , \#163 ; hr .
after another grain , and after another hour Jo grain .
Afterwards successive doses of grain of atropine were given with the food up to nearly \ grain ( 0'03 gram ) ; the animal being thus saturated with atropine both before and during the last meal .
B. \#151 ; Liver considerably altered by psorospermic lesions , but about normal in size .
Cells large .
Outlines of cells and the mitoma very indistinct .
Meshes of the mitoma generally small , but a few large ones were faintly indicated .
Bile canaliculi generally indistinct ; where distinct they were very narrow .
Glycogen reaction well marked , but less so at the periphery of the lobule than it should have been .
Iron reaction did not show anything special .
C. \#151 ; These changes are taken as the type of a liver in which the secretory activity is diminished .
I. Action of Atropine on a Fed Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last food given 7 hrs .
before death .
Subcutaneous injection of ft 'f a grain ( gram 0'002 ) of sulphate of atropine was given 3 hrs .
30 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; There were only a few psorospermic lesions in the organ .
Cells large .
Outlines of the cells and the mitoma not very distinct .
Meshes of the mitoma small .
Bile canaliculi , where distinct , were narrow .
C. \#151 ; These appearances were those of a fasting liver , with the exVOL .
LV .
' 2 H 436 Dr. L. Brunton and Mr. S. Delepine .
Changes [ Apr. 26 , ception of the size of the cells , and are taken to correspond to diminished secretory activity .
Action of Ammonia on a Fasting Liver .
A. \#151 ; Last food given 25 hrs .
before death .
1 c.c. of liquor ammoniae , diluted with 9 c.c. of water , was injected into the rectum 12 mins , before death ( death accidental , possibly accelerated by , but not , certainly , due to the drug).B .
\#151 ; Liver very slightly diseased ( psorospermosis ) and of small size .
Cells small .
Mitoma more indistinct than normal , and the cellular cleavage also .
Meshes of the mitoma smaller than normal .
Bile canaliculi seldom distinct .
Glycogen reaction normal , i.e. , there were no distinct glycogenic granules .
Sugar reaction , obtained after maceration in water for 24 hrs .
, was a little more marked than under normal circumstances .
Iron reaction considerably increased , but diffuse .
0.\#151 ; Ammonia seemed in this case to have an action somewhat similar to that of atropine , but to cause a greater splitting of organic combinations of iron .
Action cf Ammonia on a Fed Liver .
Last food given 8 hrs .
and 30 mins , before death .
1 c.c. of liquor ammonise , diluted with 10 c.c. of water , was administered per rectum 65 mins , before death .
B. \#151 ; Liver cells rather large .
Outline of the cells and the cytomitoindistinct , instead of being very distinct , as they should have been .
Meshes of the mitoma small instead of large .
Bile canaliculi generally indistinct .
Glycogen reaction well marked in the hepatic zone only , instead of being more general .
Sugar produced in 24 hrs .
after death was normal .
Iron reaction more marked than normal , but was diffuse ; the granules were , on the contrary , rather less than noimal .
C. _Generally speaking , the results were the same as in the fasting state , and , with the exception of the changes in the iron reaction , were similar to those produced by atropine .
1894 .
] produced on Liver Cells by various Compounds .
Provisional The effect which the administration of various drugs has on the distinctness of the cellular rnitoma and on the distribution or arrangement of that mitoma and of the paramitoma , resembles , in the case of a certain number of drugs , that of pilocarpine , and in others that of atropine .
The first drugs may be said to stimulate glandular activity , the latter to restrain it ; only a few of those experimented with seemed to have neither a stimulating nor a depressing action .
On this basis we may subdivide the compounds studied into three groups .
1 .
Stimulating or excito-secretory , with pilocarpine for a type .
2 .
Neutral group .
3 .
Depressing or depresso-secretory group , with atropine for type .
1 .
Fxcito-secretory group .
Of the following compounds , those heading the following list produced the most marked changes in the mitoma of the cells:\#151 ; Toluene , benzol , sodium iodide , pilocarpine , chrysophanic acid , ammonium chloride , toluylene diamine , nitric acid .
( Aniline seemed in one case to have a stimulating effect , but this was doubtful .
) 2 .
Neutral group .
No drug was altogether neutral , but two drugs seemed to have little depressing , and still less exciting , action , though they evidently produced degenerative changes in the cells ; in the doses used , they acted probably too powex-fully as poisons .
These compounds were aniline and phenol .
3 .
Depresso-secretory group .
The following compounds belong to this group :\#151 ; Phenol , atropine , ammonia .
In each of the two great groups it is possible to recognise marked differences based on the influence which the drugs had ( 1 ) on the storage of glycogen ; ( 2 ) on the accumulation of compounds giving the reaction of inorganic ferric salts in the liver .
1 .
In the excito-secretory group .
* Glycogenic Function .
A.\#151 ; The following drugs caused marked increase of glycogen in the liver :\#151 ; Sodium iodide , toluylene , diamine , chrysophanic acid ( toluene ?
) ( ammonium chloride ?
) Ih\#151 ; The following gave rise to no marked increase of glycogen , and sometimes even to a diminution:\#151 ; ( Ammonium chloride ?
) , nitric acid , pilocarpine , benzol .
2 h 2 Action on -Inver Cellsby various Compounds .
[ Apr. 26 , '** FerrogenicFunction .
A. \#151 ; The following drugs caused a very marked diminution the amount of free iron in the liver:\#151 ; Sodium iodide , toluene , toluylene diamine .
B. \#151 ; The following caused ' a diminution in the quantity of , hut not to the same extent as the first , and the iron was often so distributed as to remind one of the appearances observed in an active liver:\#151 ; Chloride of ammonium , nitric acid , pilocarpine , benzol ( in the fed liver ) .
C. \#151 ; In one case only a doubtful increase of iron was found:\#151 ; Benzol ( in the fasting liver ) .
2 .
In the group of depresso-secretory compounds .
A. \#151 ; Ammonia caused a diminution of the glycogen and an increase of iron .
By its influences on the accumulation of glycogen and of iron , phenol acts distinctly in the same way as the depresso-secretory compounds ; thus it caused diminution in the glycogen and an increase in the iron .
Aniline caused little change in the glycogen , but a great accumulation of iron in one case .
The action of aniline evidently requires to be studied more specially .
B. \#151 ; Atropine caused a slight diminution in the glycogen and little change in the iron .
General Concluding Remarks .
We are satisfied that much is to be lear ned of the affinities of drugs and of their physiological action by the methods which we have been using in this study .
The anticipation of unknown difficulties in a field practically new has caused us to spend much time in observations which have not all proved of much use .
We know now how to obtain those results which are most useful .
We are repeating some of the experiments in order to test the value of our first results , and we are slowly repeating the measurements which have already taken such a considerable amount of time .
It would be unwise in the present state of the inquiry to attempt to give more dogmatic conclusions than those we offer provisionally .

