SXIII .
Observations W the fossi !
Bonestresented to the Roya=Z Society by bis most Serene Highness the Margrave of Anspach , &amp;c. By the late John Hunter , Esq. F R. -St Commani6ated by Everard Home , Esq. F. RS Read May X , 7g+ .
tnbz bones which are the subJect of the presertt paper are to be considered more in the light of incrustations than extrax neous fossils , since their external surface ' has only acquired a covering of crystallized earth , and little or 1lo change has taken place in their internal structure .
The earths with which bones are most commonly encrusted are the calcareous , argillaceous , and siliceouss but principally the calcareous ; and this happens in two ways ; one7 the bones being immersed in water in which this earth is stlspended Q the other , water passing through masses of this earthg which it dissolves , and afterwards deposits upon bones which lie underneath .
Bones which are encrusted seem never to urldergo this change in the earth3 or under the water , where the soft parts were destroyedv while bones that are fossilized become so in the medium in which they were depositedX at the animal 's death .
The encrusted bones has been previously exposed to * 13ones that have been bury ( l with the flesh on , acquile a stain which they never lose ; and those which have been tong imrnersed in water recelve a consideral31e tlnge .
the open air ; this is evidently the case with the bones at pre:sent under consideration , those of the rock of Gibraltar , and those found in Daimatia S and frole the accoullt given by the Abbe SPAL0JANZANI , those of the island of Cerigo are under the same c-irctlmstances .
They have the characters of exposel bones , and manzr of thezn are cracked in a number of places , particularly the cylindrical bones , similar to the effects Of long expostlre to the sun .
Xhis circumstance appears to distinguish tlaerll from fossilizedL bones , and gives us some in 50rl8tiO.l respecting thwir history .
If their nurubers had corresponded with what we meet with of recent lsolzes we mlght have been led to some opinion of their nlode of accumulation ; but the quantity exceeds any thIng we can form an idea of .
It1 all inquiry into their his tory three questions laaturally arise : did the allil-nals come there and die ?
or were their lJodies hrought there , and lay ex posed ?
or were the bones collected from differexlt places ?
The first of these conjectuFES appears to me the lmoSt natural ; but yet I am by no means colzvinced of its bving the true one .
Bones of this descriptgion are found in very different situa tions , which makes their present state more difficultly ac counted for .
hose in Germany are found in caves .
The coast of Dalmatia is saicl to be almost wholltr formed of them , and we know that this is the case with a large portion of the rock of Gibraltar .
If none were found in caves , but in solid masses covereci WItl1 marl or limestone , it would then give the idea of their having been brought together by some strarlge cause , as a convulsion in the earth , which threw these materials over them y but this we can hardly form an idea of ; or if they had all been found in caves , we should have imagined these caves were places of retreat for such animals , and had been so for some thousands of years ; and if the bones were those of carnivoroug animals and herbivorous , we might have supposed that the carnivorous had brought in tnany animals of a smaller size which they caught for food ; and this , upon the first view , appears to have been the case with those which are the subject of this paper , yet W}len we consider that the lJones are principally of carnivoloous animals , we are confined to the supposition of their being only places of retreat .
If they had been brought together by any convulsion of the earth , they would have been mixed with the surrounding materlals of the nountains , hich does not appear to be the case ; for although some are follnd sticking in the sides of the caves encrusted in calcareous mattern this seems to have arisen from their situation in the cave .
Such accLlmulation would have made them coeval with the mountains themselves , which from the recent state of the bones I should very much doubt .
The difference in the state of the bones sllosts that there was probably a succession of t}tem for a vast series of years a for if wte consi(ler the distance of time between the most perfect having been deposited , which we must suppose were the last , and the present time , we NlUSt consider it to be nzany thousand years ; and if we calculate llow long these must still relnain to be as far decayed as some others are , it will require many thousand years , a sufficient time for a vast accumulation : from this mode of reasoning , therefore , it wou]d appear that they were IlOt brougilJc here at ollce in a receat stateX The animal earth , as it is calledn at the bottolu of these cars , is supposed to be prodllced by the rotting of the flesh , which is supposing the animals brought there wiLh the flesh oll ; but I dc Z4DCCXCIX .
3 G conceive , that if the cafires had been stuffied with whole animals , the flesh could not have produced one-tenth part of the earth , and to account for such a quantity as appears to be the produce of animals , I should suppose it the remains of the dung of animals who inhabited the cavesn and the contents of the bowels of those they lived upon .
TIlis is easily conceived from knowing that there is something similar to it , in a smaller degreen in many caves in this kingdom , which are places of retreat for bats in the winter , and even in tize summer , as they only go abroad in the evenings X these caves have their bottoms covered with animal earth , for some feet in depth , in all degrees of decomposition , the lowermost the most pure9 and the ppermost but little cleanged , with all the intermediate degrees ; in which caves are formed a vast number of stalactitess vYhich might illCrUst the bones of those that die there .
Tlle bones in the caves ill Germany are so much the object of the curious that the specimens are dispersed thoughout Europe , which prevents a suffilcient number coming into the hands of any one person to make him acquainted with the animals to which they belong .
From the history and figures given by ESPER , it appears that there are the bones of several animals 7 butwhat is curious , they all appear to have been carnivorous , which we should not have expected .
There are teeth in number , kind , and mode of setting , exactly similar to the white bear , others more like those of the lion ; but the representations of parts3 however well executed , are hardly to be trusted to for the nicer characters , and much less so when the parts are mutilated .
The bones sent by his highness the Margrave of ANSPACH agree with those described and delilleated by ESPER as belonging to the white bear , how far they are of the same species among themselares , I canraot say ; the heads diffler irx shape from each other ; they are , upon the whole , much longer for their breadth than it ; any cal nivorous animal I knonv of ; they also differ from the present white bear , which , as far as I have seen , has acommon proportional breadth ; itis supposed , indeed , that the heads of the present white bear differ from one allo there , but the truth of this assertion I halre not seen heads enough of that animal to determine .
The heads not only vary in shape , but also in size , for some of them , when compared vwJith the recent white bear , would seem to have belonged to an allimal twice its size , while some of the bones correspond in size with those of the white bear , and others are even smaller .
* There are two ossa humeri , rather of a less size than those of the recent white bear ; a first vertebraX rather smaller ; the teeth also vary considerably in size , yet they are all those of the same tribe a so that the variety among themselves is not less than be tween them and the recent .
In the formation of the head , age makes a considerable difference ; the skull of a youngdog is much more rounded than an old one , the ridge leading back to the occiput , terminating in the two lateral ones , hardly exists ill ?
t young dog ; and among the present bones there is the back part of SUCIl a head , yet it is larger than the head of the largest lnasa tiS ; how far tl}e young white bear may vary from the old , similar to the young dog , I do not know , but it is very probable .
Drawings of the different heads and ossa hurneri , done in a very masterly manner by Mr. BATTY , surgeon in Great Marlborough-street , when ) was so obliging as to take that trouble , are annexed to this account .
See Tab. XIX .
and XX .
Bones of animals under circumstances so similar , altlaough ill different parts of the globe , one would have naturally supposed to consist chiefly of those of one class c)r order in every place , one principle acting itl all places .
Ill Gibraltar they are mostly of the ruminatilag tribe , of the hare kind , and the bones of birds ; yet there are sotlle of a small dog or foxS and likewise shells Tllose in Daltnatia appear to be mostly of the rumillating tribe , yet I saw a part of the os hyoides of a 11orse ; but those from Germany are mostly carnivorous .
From these facts we should be inclined to suppose , that their accumulation did not arise from any instinctive mode of living , as the same mode could not suit both carllierorous and llerbivorous animals .
In considering animals respecting their situation upon the globe , there are many which are peculiar to particular clirnates , and others that are less confilaed , as herrings , mackerel , and salmon ; others again , which probably mc)ve over the whole extent of the sea , as the skark , porptls9 and whale tribe , while many shell-fish must be confined to one spot .
If the sea had not shifted its situation more than ollce , and was to leave the land ln a very short time , then ute could determine WllAt the climate had fvrmerly been by the extralleous fossils of the statiozary alainzalsg for those only would be found mixed with those of passage ; but if the sea tnonres from one place to another slow]y , thela the remains c)f animals of diiferent climates may be mixed , bythose of one climate moving over those of allother , dying , and being fossilized ; but this I aIn afraid cannot be made out .
By the fossils ve may , however } have some idea how the bolles of the land animals fossilized may be disposed with respect to those of the sea .
If the sea should have occupied any space that never had been dry lalld prior to the sea 's being there , the extraneous fossils can only be those of sea animals ; but each part will have its particular kind of those that are stationary mixed with a fexzr of the amphibia , and of sea birds , in those parts that were the skirts of the sea .
I shall suppose that when the sea left this place it moved over land where both vegetables and land ataimals had existed , the bones of wJhich will be fossilized , as also those of thesea allimals ; and if the sea continued long here , which there is reasola to believe , then those mixed extraneous fossi]s will be covered with those of sea animals .
}Towl if the sea should again move and ahaladon this situation , then we should find the land and seza fossils above mentioned disposed in this order ; and as we begin to discover extralleous fossils in a contrary direction to their formation , we shall first find a strattlm of those of animals peculiar to the sea3 which were the last fortned , and under it one of vegetables and land animals , which were there belore they were covered by the seas and anlong them those of the sea , and under this the common earth .
Those peculiale to the sea will be in depth in proportion to the time of the seas residence and other circumstances , as currets , tides , Ac .
Froln a successiotl of &gt; such shiftings of the situation of the sea we lmay have a stratum of n}arine extraneous fossils one of eart !
, niixed probably s^ith vegetables and bones of laud anima]sn a stratum of terrestrial extralleous fossils , then one of marine productions ; but from the sea carrying its inhabitantKs along urith itX wherever there are thoseof land aniluals there will also be a mixture of marine ones ; and from the sea commonly remaining thousands of years in nearly the same situation , we have marine fossils unmixed with ally others .
All operations respecting the growth or decolpposition of animal and vegetable substances go on more readily on the sir face of the earth than in it ; the air is most probably the great agent in decomposition and combination , and also a certain degree of heat .
Thus the deeper we go itzto the earth , we find the fewer chazges going on ; and there is probably a certair depth where no change of any kind cala possibly take place .
The operation of vegetation will not go on at a certain depth , but at this very depth a decomposition can take place , for the seed d}es , and in time decays , but at a still greater depth , the seed retains its life for ages , and when brought near enough to the surface for vegetation , it grows .
Something similar to this talies place snith respect to extraneous { ossils ; for although a piece of wood or bone is dead , shell so situated as to be fossilized , yet they are sourld and free from decomposition , and the depth , joined with the matter in which there are often found , as stone , clay , &amp;c. preserves them from putrefaction , and their dissolutisn requires thousands of years to complete it ; probably they may be underthe same circumstances as itl a vacuum ; the heat in such situations is tIniform , probably in common about 52 ' or $3 ' and in the colder regions they ze still longer preserved .
I believe it is generally urlderstood that in extraneous fossils the animal part is destroyed ; but I fitld that this is not the case itl any I have : met with .
ShellsX and bones of fish , most probably halre the least in quantity having been longest in that state , otherxvise they shollld have the most ; f(r the harder and more compact the earth , the better is the animal part preserved ; which is an argument in proof of their havilag been the lotlgest in a fossil state .
From experimenL and observation , the animal part is not allowed to putrefy , it appears only to be dissolved into a kind of lnucus , and can be discovered by dissolving the earth in an acid ; when a shell is treated ill this way , the arlimal substance is not fibrous or laminated , as in the recent shell , but withlout tenacity , and can be washed off* like wet dust ; in some , hourever , it has a slight appearance of flakes .
In the shark 's tooth , or glosso-petra , the enamel is composed of animal substance and calcareous earth , and is nearly in the same quantity as in the recent ; but the central part of the tooth has its animal substance in the state of mucus interspersed in the calcareous matter .
In the fossil bones of sea aninzals , as the vertebrae of the whale , the aIlimal part iS in large quantity , and in two states ; the one having some tenacity , but the other like wet dllst : but ill some of the harder bones it is lmore firm .
In the fossil banes of land animals , and those which inhabit the waters , as the sea-horse , otter , crocodile , and turtle , the animal part is ill considerable quantit ; y. Ill the stags horns dug up in Great Britain and Ireland , when the earth is dissolfired , the animal part is in considerable quantity , and very firl7l .
lL he same observations app]y to the fossil borles of the elephant found in England , Siberia , and other parts of the globe ; also those of the ox kind , but more particularly to their teeth , especially those from the lakes in Alnerica , in which the animal part has suffered very little ; the inhabitallts fixad little diff5erence in the ivory of such tusks from the reGerit but its having a yellow stain ; the cold may probably assist in their preservation .
The state c)f preservation will vary according to the substance in which they have been preserved ; in peat and clay I think the most ; however- , there appears in general a species of dissollltion ; for the animal substance , althollgh tolerably firm , in a heat a little above 100 ' becotnes a thickish mucus , like dissolared gum , while a portion froan the exterllal surface is re duced to the state of wet dust .
In encrusted bonesg the qualltity of anima1 substance is very diSerent in different bones .
In those from Gilaraltar there is very little ; it in part retains its tenacitt , and is transparent , but the superficial )asrt dissolves into mucus .
Those from Dalluatia give similar results when examined in this way .
Those from Germany , especially the harder bones and teeth , seem to contaill all the animal substance natural to them , they differ 11owever among themselves in this respect .
The bones of larld animals have their calcareous earth united with the phosphoric acid instead of the aerial , and I believes retain it when fossilized , nearly ill proportion to the quantity of animal ulatter they contain .
The mode by which I judge of this , is by the qualltity of effervescence ; when fossil bones are put into the muriatic acid it is not nearly so great as when a shell is put into it , but it is more in some , although not in all , than when a recexlt bone is treated in this wtay , and this I think diminishes in proportion to the quantity of aninzal substance they retain ; as a proof of this , those fossil bones which contain a small portion of animal matterX produce in an acid the greatest effiervescence when the surface is acted on , and very little when the centre is a{Nected by it ; hovever , this may be accounted for by the parts which have lost their phosphoric acid , and acquired the aerial , being easiest of solution in the marine acid , and therefore dissolved first , and the aerial acid let loose.tIn some bones of the whale the effervescence is very great ; in the Dalmatia and Gibraltar bones it is less , and in those the subject of the present paper it is very little , since they contain .
by much the largest proportion of at imal substance .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
Tab. XIX .
Fig. t. Orse of thfe encrusted skulls serut over by the Mrargranre of ANSPACH , which is much larger tha-n that of the common white bear , longer for its breadth , and having a greater 11ollow betweexl the anterior part of the skull and the bones of the face .
Fig. 2 .
Another skull , whsch differs in many respects from fig. .
and nearly in the same degree that the first does from the skull of the recent white bear .
Tab. XX .
Fig. z. A portion of a skull , to what animal it belongs is not exactly ascertained , unless it be the growing state of the t ?
ones in one of the varieties of the white bear species , but it is materially different from the full grown skulls expressed in Tab SIX .
It is rather too large in proportion to the others .
Fig. 2 .
Two of the encrusted ossa humeri , to show that these bones rary very much among themselares , these tWQ be ; ng in many respects dissimilar .

