PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
XV .
On a new principle of constructing His Majesty 's Ships of War .
By Robert Seppings , Esq. one of the Surveyors of His Majesty 's Navy .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read March to , 1814 .
NOTWITHSTANDING the rapid improvement in almost every other branch of the arts and sciences within the last century , it will scarcely be credited by persons not conversalt with shipbuilding , that little or no advancement has been made during that period in naval architecture , so far as relates to the disposition of the materials which compose the fabric of a ship , whereby alone strength and fixedness of the p-rts can be obtained .
This will appear the more extraordinary in Great Britain , when it is considered that our very existence as a nation depends upon our naval superiority ; and when it is further understood that a deficiency of oak timber , but more particu , larly that of a large scantling , calls for such an application of it as will reduce its consumption , and make up for the deficiency of its size .
It is not improbable , that the responsibility which would attach to an individual who should attempt an innovation in a structure , whereby the lives of hundreds might be thought to be endangered , together with the great opposition raised against propositions for any material change in long established customs , may have occasioned this backwardness in naval improvements .
This heavy responsibility , together with the obstacles which are so frequently thrown in the way of projectors , has , without doubt , deterred many men , eminently distinguished for professional abilities , from attempting to carry into effect their ideas on this most arduous and dangerous undertaking : to which may be added , that not merely their professiotal reputation , but even their peace of mind , might have been hazarded thereby .
For if the ship should be lost , although from a very different cause to that of the construction , yet would the weight of censure fall upon the new principle ; and the projector would have to endure the whole burnthen of the charge , that his schemes had occasioned not only the loss of the ship , but also , which is of far more consequence , the lives of some hundreds of his fellow-creatures .
Whilst , on the other hand , should the experiment succeed , there would not be wanting those who would be ready to detract from that merit which he so richly deserved , and which would be purchased by him at so great a risk .
The writer of the present paper , in his various propositions for the improvement of naval architecture , has constantly kept in view these two leading axioms , " That the strength of a fabric consists not so much in the quantity of the materials of which it is composed , as in the disposition , the connection , and the security of its several parts .
" And , " that the strength of a ship , let its construction be what it may , can never exceed that of its weakest parts , " and consequently , c that partial strength produces general weakness .
" Three 74 gun ships , now at sea , have already been rebuilt at Chatham on the principle about to be explained ; and , from the favourable reports of those ships , the Lords of the Admiralty have given their orders for the building of several new ships upon the same principle .
To show , in as clear a light as possible , the advantages of the application of this new principle to ship building , it may be necessary , for the information of those who are not acquainted with that art , to give the following general outline of the structure of a ship on the old principle .
ist .
The frame of a 74 gun ship is formed of more than eight hundred different timbers , placed at right angles to the keel , which may be considered as the back bone of an animal , and the frame timbers its ribs .
Each rib is composed of several pieces of the thickness of fourteen inches , or thereabouts .
Between the several divisions of the frame , or ribs , is a space from one to five inches wide .
2dly .
The whole exterior frame is covered with planks of different thicknesses , or to carry on the figure , the ribs are covered by a skin of greater or less substance from the extreme ends of them to the keel or back bone .
The inside of the frame is also almost entirely lined with planks ; within which is another partial range , as it were , of interior ribs , at a considerable distance from each other , termed riders .
Sdly .
Across this frame are pieces of timber called beams united together so as to be of sufficient length to reach from one id of the ship to the other .
Ppa 287 The use of these beams is to secure the sides of the ship , so as to prevent her upper works from spreading , and to keep that part which is under water from being compressed by the fluid .
They are also the supports or bearers of the decks ( or what we call in houses the girders for the floors ) and must therefore be of such strength as to endure the weight of the cannon , and whatever else is to be placed upon them .
The usual mode of fastening these to the sides , has , generally speaking , been merely local , by two angular pieces of timber or iron ( called knees ) bolted to each beam , and also to the sides of the ship , by which means they were only partially held to the side , and there was wanting that continuity of materials , and consequently of strength , which the new system gives .
Between the beams and at right angles with them are placed pieces of wood called carlings , and at right angles with these ( consequently parallel to the beams ) ledges , which correspond with joists in a house .
The planks or flat of the deck ( flooring ) is laid nearly in parallel lines from head to stern , upon and at right angles with the beams , and is fastened to them and to the carlings and ledges by bolts , nails , or wooden pins , called treenails .
From this statement it will appear evident , that the decks , according to the old construction , are in nowise connected with the sides of the ship .
Having thus briefly described the common mode of shipbuilding , it will next be proper to point out such of its defects as the new principle tends to remove .
In the first place , it will be perceived , that all the materials comp( srng the fabric of a ship are disposed nearly at right angles to each other .
This disposition which , in every wooden fabric is well known to the meanest mechanic , to be the weakest , is particularly so in a ship , the immense body of which , subject to violent action from impulses in every direction , is sustained by a greater pressure on the centre than the extremities , arising chiefly from the difference in the fore and after parts of the body , to that of the midship , or middle part , From the want of a continued succession of support from the centre to the extremities , originates the tendency to arching , or hogging .
This tendency shows itself in a ship from the moment of her launching ; from whence some idea may be formed to what extent it will be carried in a troubled sea , when in the act of pitching she is borne up by the fluid only in her central part , while the head and stern are forsaken , and therefore unsupported by the water .
If a straight line be drawn from the head to the stern of a ship , whilst on the slip , or in the dock , no sooner has she entered her own element than each end of this line will be found to have dropped from two to five or six inches , in consequence of the weakness of the fabric , and the two extremes wanting the quantum of support which the fluid gives to the central part .
The length of a 74 gun ship being 170 feet or more , it requires but little knowledge of the strength of timber to perceive that planking of that length , however thick , or in whatever way joined or put together , must , under the present system , bend with its own weight .
The fastenings , and con:sequently the connection of the several parts of the fabric , must therefore suffer for the want of stiffness , and a change of form is the consequence .
This may be shown by putting together four pieces of wood , ; 289 and securing them with iron pins in the form of a square ; which on the least pressure may be made to change its form to the rhombus ; but let another piece be fixed to it diagonally , and the figure of the frame will be found immovable .
Place a bar in the middle parallel to two of the sides , and secure it firmly by iron pins , still the figure will easily be moved by the hand , like a parallel ruler , and assume the rhomboidal shape of A or B ; but apply to the frame what the 0\\ 1111 carpenters term the brace in a common field gate as Z , and the figure will remain , as before , immovable .
rI -Z fr ~~~~\ i ; 1 r ri.r 71 - , 1 ' r-nl Il -_l ?
~~~~~~~~~-yn .
L~1 If this brace or diagonal piece is not fixed to it , the outer part of the gate ( or that part most distant from the hinges ) will have a constant tendency downwards , until at length it will reach the ground .
Let fig. i and e represent two frames of wood composed of parts strongly connected by bolts or iron pins .
Fig. i. Will represent the principle on which the present system of ship building is conducted .
o , Fig. s. The new principle .
Let CC represent the fulcrum , or point of support .
And DD two weights attached for the purpose of ascertaining the comparative strength or stiffness of each frame .
This experiment will show that the stiffiess of fig. 2 is to that of fig. 1 , as 6 is to 1 , and the strength as 3 to i. The greater the length of the frames , the greater will be the advantages of the new principle , both in stiffness and strength .
' 1 ?
o* '0o00 o " 1 " Ll " 3e , 'l e ' oe ' 4lo ' lo : C0.c 00 0 .
0aDo A ?
by the hands at each end , which first bends , and then breaks .
To prevent any transverse action upon the fibre of the timber , is one of the benefits arising from the new system , and to impede a longitudinal extension of the structure , is another .
For as the diagonal frame , composed of a series of triangles , aided by diagonal trussing between the ports , prevents the fabric from being acted upon transversely to the fibres of the materials horizontally placed , so the wales , the planking , the shelf pieces , the improved waterways , and the decks systematically secured , become the the beams of the structure .
In a word , the system of triangles is so constructed , in conjunction with the planking of the ship , as conjointly to possess that property of a triangle already explained , viz. that its figure is as unalterable as the compression or extension of the fibre of timber will admit it to be .
The strength of the principle has hitherto been considered as applying to , or resisting an alteration of , the figure , by giving great stiffness .
It is now to be taken in another point of view , that of rendering the strength of the fabric as general and united as possible .
For let it be again observed , the strength of any body is but equal to that of its weakest part .
In the new system , the openings between the ribs are filled in with slips of timber nearly to the height of the orlop , or lower tier of beams ; which being then caulked , and paid or pitched over , makes the frame from head to stern , and within a few feet of the greatest draught of water , one compact and .
water tight mass of timber ; so that were any of the outer planking of the bottom to be knocked off , the ship would not only still keep afloat , but would be secured from sinking .
In the old system the starting of a plank would be , and often has been , fatal .
The mode of filling in these openings between the frame , where the width of the space does not exceed three inches , is by driving in slics of wood cut wedge-like ; two of which being driven , one from the outside , the other from within , form the paral'el space of the opening , thereby bringing the parts into the closest contact .
In the openings exceeding the width of three inches , the space is occupied by pieces corresponding with the openings , the fibre of such pieces being laid in the same direction as that of the frame timbers .
These fillings occasion no consumption of useful timber , as one fourth of the produce of slab , and other offal now sold as fathom wood , would supply a sufficient quantity for the consumption of the whole navy .
The advantages obtained by filling in the openings are these .
To add to the strength and durability of the fabric , to preserve the health of the crew from the effects of the impure air arising from the filth which soon collects in these openings , to render the ship less liable to leakage , as well as to facilitate the stoppage of any leak , and lastly , to increase , as it may be said , the thickness of the bottom from four or four and a half , ( the usual thickness of the plank ) to about sixteen inches , thereby lessening very considerably the danger to be apprehended from getting on shore , or foundering at sea .
That it tends also to the durability of the ship , will be inferred from the fllowing positions .
ist .
That the openings in the old principle are , after a ship has had any considerable length of service , choked up in many parts with an accumulation of filth .
2dly .
That no free circulation of air can be obtained in these openings by any means .
sdly .
That timber being either freely exposed to , or excluded from the air , is equally preserved .
4thly .
That it has been found on examining the frame and plank of old ships , that those parts ( now filled in ) , generally decay sooner than the rest , viz. from the floor-heads in the midships , and from the deadwood forward and abaft to the height of the orlop clamps .
If the above positions be true , it will follow , that by filling in these openings , much will be added to the durability of the ship ; which also will be further promoted by omitting in these parts the inside plank , leaving thereby the surface of the frame timbers exposed to a free admission of air as often as the ship 's hold is unstowed , and by the filling in , excluding the air from two of the sides of every timber .
By omitting the inside plank , much is added to the internal capacity of the ship 's hold .
For though the trussed frame projects from the timbers more by five inches than the thickstuff at the floor heads , yet , as in the old system , the perpendicular riders are brought upon the thick stuff , their projection into the hold is more by eight inches than that of the new , the advantage therefore as to stowage is in favour of the diagonal frame .
A tier of iron ballast will also be disposed of in this principle many inches lower , whereby an increase of stability will be given with less weight , which will favour the ship in carrying her ports higher out of the water , inasmuch as greater stability will be given with less ballast .
An accurate conception of the state of the ship 's hold may be formed , by referring to the longitudinal section ( P1 .
X , figure i , which is termed the Jesuit 's perspective , or bird 's eye view ) of the internal part of one side of a 74 gun ship in a complete state , with fillings in the openings between the timbers of the frames instead of the planking over them .
In this state the diagonal timbers are introduced , intersecting the timbers of the frame at about the angle of 45 degrees , and so disposed as that the direction in the fore , is contrary to that of the after part of the ship ( as may be seen in the engraving ) , and their distance asunder from six to seven feet or more ; their upper ends abutting against the horizontal hoop or shelf piece of the gun deck beams , and the lower ends against the limber strikes , except in the midships , where they come against two pieces of timber placed on each side of the keelson for the purpose of taking off the partial pressure of the main mast , which always causes a sagging down of the keel , and sometimes to an alarming degree .
These pieces of timber are nearly as square as the keelson , and fixed at such a distance from it , as that the main step may rest upon them .
They may be of oak , or pitch pine , and as long as can be conveniently procured .
Pieces of timber are next placed in a fore and aft direction over the joints of the frame timbers at the floor and first futtock heads , their ends in close contact with , and coaked or dowelled to the sides of the diagonal timbers .
In this state the frame work in the hold presents various compartments , each representing the figure of a rhomboid .
A truss timber is then introduced into each rhomboid with an inclination opposite to that of the diagonal timbers , thereby dividing it into two parts .
The truss pieces so introduced into the rhomboid , are to the diagonal frame what the key stone Qqs g95 is to the arch ; for no weight or pressure on the fabric can alter its position in a longitudinal direction , till compression takes place at the abutments , and extension of the various ties .
This arch-like property of the diagonal frame , not only opposes an alteration of position in a longitudinal direction , but also resists external pressure on the bottom , either from grounding or any other cause , because no impression can be made in its figure in these directions , without forcing the several parts of which it is composed into a shorter space .
The connection which is kept up by means of this trussed frame firmly attached to the timbers of the ship by circular coaks and bolts , together with the shelf pieces united to the sides and to the several beams by means of the same sort of fastenings , gives such unity to the whole as to bear no com parison with that heterogeneous and badly connected mass of materials for which it is substituted .
It has hitherto been a generally received opinion , that stiffness or inflexibility in a ship is not strength , but that a yielding or bending of the fabric is an essential quality to preserve it from being destroyed by the shocks which it is destined to sustain , This misconception must have arisen from an equally incorrect idea , which is , that a ship is an elastic body , because thereds a considerable degree of elasticity in the materials of which it is composed .
But it should be remembered , that this elasticity of the materials must be very inconsiderable , inasmuch as the minute degree of elasticity in each piece must necessarily be neutralised in the fabric , by the various directions and tendencies of the numerous parts of which it is composed , so that a ship , let her construction be what it may , either loose or firm , is not in any case elastic .
It follows then , that every action and reaction of the sea operating upon different parts of the fabric at different times , occasions , for the want of unity of the whole of the parts , a constant and increasing weakness , which by some may have been taken for elasticity .
When a sea strikes a ship forward , the bow will rise with the sea ; which passing aft , lifts the midships in succession , leaving at this time , in a great measure , the fore and aft parts of the ship with comparatively little , or no support .
Such shocks , acting upon a body whose parts are not firmly connected , produce a bending and rebending of the fabric , so that the several planks of the sides play over each other , and the fastenings are strained and loosened by a repetition of this action and reaction .
On the contrary , when a body is constructed with such general unity and fixedness of all its parts , as that if one is moved the whole must move with it , then it may be said that all the parts of the structure bear their portion of the strain .
The decks come next under consideration , the beams of which are disposed in the new system nearly as usual , except that in midships , where a ship necessarily requires the greatest security , two additional beams have been introduced .
The beams of the several decks are attached to the ship 's side in the following manner .
1st .
By shelf pieces or internal hoops , distinguished by the letter E , figure .
These shelf pieces are composed of several lengths of timber scarphed or joined together by coaks , or crcular dowes , so as to orm a kitld of internal hoop , extending from the hooks forward , to the transoms abaft , to the underside of which , as well as the under parts of the beams , they are securely coaked , and being then firmly bolted to the side , instead of becoming a mere local fixture of , the beam to the ship 's exterior frame , as knees were , they are one continued and general security .
The shelf piece is also a the to the topside in a fore and aft direction , cooperating with the trussed frame , as already explained .
2dly .
By chocks , represented in figure 2 , letter H. , which are placed under all the shelf pices in wake of the beams , except the orlop , in such a manner as to receive the up and down arm of the iron knees .
The lower ends of those under the gundeck shelf piece , step on the ends of the orlop beams , and those of the several decks above , step on the projecting part of the spirketting below .
The chocks , particularly those between the orlop and gun decks , admit of their being driven into their respective places very tight , thereby acting like pillars .
Another advantage attending them , is their great tendency to stiffen the ship 's side , and to prevent the beam ends from playing on the fastenings when the ship is rolling , or straining under a press of sail .
The curved iron plate knees for securing the orlop beams , and the iron forked knees of the other decks , are described in figures 3 and 2 .
The flat or planks of the several decks being , on the old system , each of them a mere platform , or in other words a cover to a box unconnected with the sides , are here so disposed of , as not only to oppose an alteration of figure from a force acting on the ship in a lateral direction , but also are made subservient towards securing the beams to the sides of the ship .
The framing and flat of the decks ( excepting the quarterdeck , forecastle , and round-house , which are laid upon the old plan ) are disposed of , as represented in figure 5 .
The former , that is , the framing or ledges and beams in ticked lines , the latter or planks in black ; those of the starboard side being laid contrariwise to the larboard .
The midship ends of the diagonal planks abut against two strikes laid in a fore and aft direction without side of the comings of the hatchways ; the other ends approach the timbers of the frame , and the buts at each end are secured to a tier of carlings placed for that purpose .
The flat or plank of the deck so disposed is connected with a certain number of coaks to the hooks , beams , and transoms .
When the decks are thus laid , waterways , described in figure 2 , are brought upon , and coaked to the ends of the plank .
These waterways being then bolted through the ship 's sides , and also , in an up and down direction , through the flat and shelf pieces , combine the whole in one homogeneous mass of strength .
Few ships are without some complaint of apparent weakness after three or four years service .
These defects among other places show themselves at the beam ends , which partial complaining proceeds in a great degree from the local attachment of the beams to the ship 's side , and the flat or covering being in toto unconnected , as already explained .
The extreme ends of the beams not being properly secured , play and work upon the fastenings , so that it is not unusual to see the bolt holes cut to an oval figure by the friction of the bolts .
The remedy usually applied to a ship il this state is to load her with additional materials , such as iron knees , standards , breasthooks , &amp;c. thus adding greatly to the original g99 weight of the fabric .
Now it is evident , that the first gale of wind the ship encounters , after being thus partially strengthened , she must be reduced to the same state of weakness she was in before the remedy was applied .
This mode of strengthening ships may be compared to that of a raft firmly secured in the first place by strong laslhing , which after some time works loose , or rather by working is stretched .
As it might be too tedious a business to secure the raft by retightening the lashing , a small cord , or some twine , would be used to answer the purpose .
It is clear that whilst the small cord or piece of twine remained tight , no part of the strain can bear upon the strong , but loose lashing , till the other stretches or breaks ; so it is with a ship that has additional securities given her without refastening those which had worked , or were much strained .
To remedy defects , whether , arising from the decay of the materials , or from any other cause , the principle now applied has many advantages , of which a slight inspection of the ship 's hold ( figure i , ) will convince , but in no respect is this advantage greater , than in the decks , for by shifting them when worn too thin for caulking , the original connection between the beams , decks , and sides , will be restored as perfect as at first .
The tendency of the ship to stretch or draw asunder in her upper works , being by no means obviated by the short planks on the inside between the ports , a truss piece of plank is substituted in lieu of them , which being well secured at the abutments , very materially aids the trussed frame , and gives great stiffness , thereby opposing the inclination to arch or hog aloft .
Figure 4 represents the stern of a ship with the trussing and iron work for its security .
By this the helm port transom , which consumes one of the largest and most difficult trees required for a ship , is dispensed with .
Those essential qualities of strength , safety , and durability , having been detailed , a few observations with respect to the economy of the new principle may not be misplaced , which though but of a secondary consideration compared to the others , yet as the royal navy cannot be kept up without a supply of foreign timber , it evidently becomes a subject of considerable moment , that upwards of one hundred and eighty oak trees should be saved in a seventy-four , and a greater number in larger ships , allowing each tree to measure a load , or fifty feet rough contents .
The consumption of this scarce article may be further considerably lessened in the new system by the use of inferior , and old ship timber , which cannot be employed in the other , and if old ship timber was to be generally introduced , as was done in the Ramillies , one seventh part of the English oak required for a new 74 gun ship might be saved .
The facility of ascertaining the state , and making good the defects of the frarme in the lower part of the ship , in consequence of omitting the inside planking , will also occasion a considerable saving of timber and workmanship , indeed the great ease by which any part of the diagonal frame may be replaced , justifies the making use of fir timber , particularly for the longitudinal piece and trusses .
But should the well grounded hopes of durability be realized , the saving of timber , and indeed of every article required for this enormous branch of the national expenditure , would be immense .
The author of this paper cannot conclude without observing that the appointment of most excellent and meritorious officers to the ships already completed on his principle , may be considered as a most favourable circumstance towards ascertaining the real merits of the construction .
Indeed , the orders for carrying this new principle of constructing His Majesty 's ships into effect , were directed by such an honourable spirit of liberality ; and so unshackled was the authority given , to enable the writer to carry his plans into execution , that no subterfuge can avail him should any failure be found in the system .
References .
a A.XvA .
sZL ; ner and add~n vmfor ; urwg are f : nenrt.f ivr B.B. Nzber of thje , i goa fim ; e. C 1 .
oorgz pce ?
ttot .
D. _7i ; w.ee to ... ... ... ... ... .
Dv.ti iE .
iite-s/ w. w , ozr-ss iz7c o-it i z , / r ff/ riW Lz7buWne7vt .
ierpei7rto , d c dgeonZiSc axs !
F. l7in wPnat pzx fMk rc Trs , 'cest .
betwee .
po , tas .
IIG .
r7wcese .
IH .
H. fwzocs wzader Shdew pice for Il _I1 zisCety .
/ tLo/ &gt; &lt; f t , he v/ B at/ zvoo/ lw Ct .
utcO/ za , .
i$ ' ; , 6 ! .
g:I II Ti IJ .
rri~ .
" ,4 .
' -~~~~~~-~ ; I , _i1i I : j I : : ir j ?
iii'i1 i : I ?
' : i ?
i ?
iIiiI'ii 1 : i ?
' ?
' I : Ei 1Ii'11iIIi i : iIj/ " r II ii / j i ; i i : ii Ij : : : iL'II I ?
I 9 ;

