The Croonian Lecture , On the Power of the Eye to adjust itself to different Distances , when deprived of the Crystalline Lens .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read November 5 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 1 .
] Its object is to state some facts and observations in support of an opinion advanced by the author in a former Lecture , that the adjustment of the eye to see objects at different distances does not depend upon any internal changes in the crystalline lens .
Before he proceeds , Mr. Home pays a due tribute of praise and gratitude to our late ingenious brother , Mr. Ramsden , to whom he says he is chiefly indebted , not only for the information which was necessary to enable him to prosecute his investigations upon the subject of vision , but also the zeal which influenced his early exertions in the philosophical career .
The opinion here alluded to was brought forward in Mr. Home 's Lecture for the year 1794 , and was founded upon experiments which seemed to prove that the removal of the crystalline lens does not deprive the eye of the power of seeing distinctly at difSerent distances .
An additional case is here mentioned of a man who had a cataract extracted from each of his eyes , and yet preserved a considerable range of vision .
In the Bakerian Lecture of last year , Dr. Young , having entered minutely into the inquiry , thought himself authorized to doubt the above inference ; and in order to insure the accuracy of the experiments he intended to make on the subject , he constructed an optometer upon the principle of that of Dr. Porterfield , by which he could ascertain the different focal lengths , and hence the power of adjustment of every eye .
The result of his experiments was , that eyes deprived of the crystalline lens have lost their power of adjustment .
This difference of results induced Mr. Home to reconsider the subject , and having sent for the man from whose eyes he had last extracted the cataracts , he repeated the experiments with Dr. Young 's optometer , somewhat simplified by leaving out the lens which was placed before the eye .
With this instrument that man was unquestionably found to have distinct vision at different distances , the nearest focus being at only 8-3 inches , and the furthest at 13-3 inches , while with Dr. Young 's optometer he could never observe any difference whatever .
Besides this individual , others , whose eyes had never been disordered , tried the effects of both optometers ; and it should seem , from the various impressions produced upon them , that the contradiction in the above results depends chiefly , if not entirely , on the difference of the instruments .

