On some of the Products of the Decomposition of Nitrotoluylic Acid .
By HENRY M. NOAD , Ph. D. , Lecturer on Chemistry at St. George 's Hospital .
Received November 17 , -Read December 8 , 1853 .
IN a paper read before the Chemical Society , and published in the third volume , p. 421 , of the Transactions of that body , I described the mode of preparation and properties of two new organic acids , which , from their general analogy to benzoic and nitro-benzoic acids , were considered to be the representatives of those acids in the succeeding or Toluyl series , and were named accordingly Toluylic ( C16 H 04 ) and Nitrotoluylic ( C6{No}7 4 ) acids .
These two acids , interesting as supplying two members of a well-defined series of acids , and as establishing a parallelism between the benzoyl and toluyl groups , were formed by the oxidation of Cymol , a hydrocarbon ( C , , H14 ) occurring with cuminol , an oxyhydrocarbon ( C0 , , H , 120 ) in the oil of cumin ( Oleum cumini ) , from which source alone they have hitherto been obtained .
The original object in submitting cymol to the action of fuming nitric acid was the formation of the substitution compound C20{NO3 , from which , by the action of reducing agents , it was anticipated that an organic base , analogous to those formed from nitrobenzole ( aniline)* , from nitrotoluole ( toluidine)t , and from nitrocumole ( cumidine)+ , would have been obtained : the unexpected formation however of a crystalline acid gave a different turn to the investigation , and the search for cimidine ( C20 H15 N ) was for the time laid aside .
I have at various times since the publication of this first paper returned to the study of the action of nitric acid on cymol , and have made many attempts , by employing acids of various degrees of strength , by keeping down the temperature by surrounding the vessels with freezing mixtures , &amp;c. , to check the action of the acid before it had produced its maximum degree of oxidation on the oil ; yet though I have in this way obtained several beautifully crystallized intermediate products , and amongst them a compound homologous to dinitrobenzole , in which two equivalents of the hydrogen of the oil have given place to two of hyponitric acid , viz. C2o { 2N0 O , still the principal product of the action has been nitrotoluylic acid ; and I have not hitherto succeeded in obtaining the first substitution compound C20 NO j and of the intermediate substances above alluded to , quantities insufficient for a thorough investigation of their natur e. The study of the products of the decomposition of nitrotoluylic acid has been attended with more successful results : some new and interesting compounds have been obtained , and as these , viewed in connection with those described in my former paper , and with those of CHANCEL obtained in his researches on nitrobenzoic acid * , complete the proofs of the parallelism of the benzoyl and toluyl groups , I have thought that a brief account of them might be deemed not unworthy of the notice of the Royal Society .
Preparation of Nitrotoluylamide .
Among the salts analysed in order to determine the atomic weight of nitrotoluylic acid was the ethyl compound , prepared by submitting an alcoholic solution of the acid to a current of dry hydrochloric acid gas till copious fumes were evolved , and then distilling .
Some attempts were made to convert this ether into nitrotoluylamide by saturating its alcoholic solution with dry ammoniacal gas , and setting it aside in a well-stopped bottle ; after some months however the anticipated transformation had not taken place .
Equally unsuccessful was the attempt to prepare this amide by the action of heat on nitrotoluylate of ammonia , as FIELDt procured cuminamide from cuminate of ammonia ; an explosion invariably took place , however carefully the heat was applied .
This investigation was resumed by repeating the experiment with the ether in sealed tubes exposed to heat in a water-bath .
About 5 grins .
of the crystallized salt were placed in a stout glass tube , 2 feet long and three quarters of an inch in diameter ; the tube was then filled to within 2 inches of the top with strong aqueous ammonia , sealed , and submitted to a boiling temperature in a deep water-bath .
After forty-eight hours ' continuous action the upper part of the tube had become filled with brilliant yellow crystalline plates , which were easily removed on breaking the tube from the solid and unaltered ether below .
Two or three crystallizations sufficed for their purification .
They were dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid , and then slowly brought to their fusing-point in the air-bath .
The crystals began to fuse at 2450 FAHR. ; at 2550 they were fairly liquid , and at 2600 they emitted copious vapours .
Analysis.-.The combustion was made in the usual manner with oxide of copper : I. '524 grm. yielded 1 029 grm. carbonic acid and '220 grm. water .
II .
-420 grin .
gave '886 grm. carbonic acid and *187 grin .
water .
These numbers furnish the following per-centages of carbon and hydrogen : I. II .
Carbon. .
53'55 53'69 Hydrogen ... 4-66 4'61 The formula of nitrotoluylamide , C,6 { i6 0 O , NH2 , or if we adopt the theory of KOLBE , that toluylic acid like benzoic acid is the oxide of a conjugate radical ( C4 , H , )^C2 ( c ml c02 0 NO NH2 requires Carbon ... 53'33 Hydrogen ... 4'44 Properties.-Nitrotoluylamide is in its properties exactly analogous to nitrobenzarmide , from which it differs in composition by ( C2H2 ) , the constant ascending or descending term of these organic series .
It is very sparingly soluble in cold water , more so in hot ; but very soluble in alcohol , ether , and pyroxylic spirit .
Its alcoholic solution crystallizes spontaneously in long , brilliant , yellow needles .
Its fusing-point is about 245 ?
FAHR. ; that of nitrobenzamide was determined by CHANCEL to be under 212 ?
; when heated with a concentrated solution of potash , it is converted into nitrotoluylate of that base .
By the process above described for procuring this substance , it can only be obtained in very limited quantities , and the process is by no means unattended with danger , from the liability of the tube to burst under the great pressure to which it is exposed ; and whilst searching for some better method of procuring it in quantities sufficient to study the products of its decomposition , I became acquainted with the investigations of CHANCEL upon the nitro-compounds derived from benzoice acid* , and upon trying the method there proposed by him for the preparation of nitrobenzamide , I succeeded , after many fruitless trials , in obtaining the new amide in considerable quantities .
The purified ethyl compound was dissolved in ordinary spirits of wine , and aqueous ammonia added until a precipitate began to form : the solution was transferred to a stout green glass bottle , and the stopper being well-secured , it was plunged into a water-bath and kept for several days at a temperature of about 140 ?
FAHR. The action proceeded very slowly ; with about 15 grammes of ether it was usually completed in eight or ten days .
The liquid , from being nearly colourless , was now of a deep yellow colour , and no precipitation took place on the addition of a large quantity of water .
The ammoniacal alcohol was distilled off , and the residual crystalline mass redissolved in weak alcohol and boiled with animal charcoal ; from the filtered solution pure nitrotoluylamide separated in crystals of remarkable size and brilliancy .
The formation of nitrotoluylamide by the action of ammonia on nitrotolpylate of t LAURENT and GERHARDT , C. R. , 1849 , 177 , Annual Rep. Prog .
Chem. vol. iii .
part 1 .
p. 223 .
45 oxide of ethyl is represented in the following equation : C , H , 0 , C,6 } 0+NH3=C4 H 0 , HO , +C,6 { 02 , NH , .
Action of Reducing Agents on Nitrotoluylamide .
When an alcoholic solution of nitrotoluylamide is submitted to the action of hydrosulphate of ammonia , the reaction is of a complicated nature , the alcohol itself undergoes decomposition , and its elements take a part in the formation of the new products .
But an aqueous solution of the amide undergoes under the influence of this reducing agent a very interesting decomposition , precisely analogous to that of nitrobenzamide under similar circumstances .
Ten grammes of the substance were dissolved in three pints of boiling distilled water , and agitated while still hot with strong solution of hydrosulphate of ammonia ; the liquid was then thoroughly saturated with sulphuretted hydrogen , the bottle well stopped , and kept for several days plunged in a water-bath at the temperature of about 140 ?
FAHR. The solution , which had now acquired a dark brown colour , was slowly evaporated on the water-bath ; large quantities of sulphur separated during the evaporation , which were from time to time removed .
When the liquid was reduced to about six ounces it was filtered and set aside .
In a few hours a mass of fawn-coloured crystals was deposited ; these were redissolved in water and boiled twice with animal charcoal .
On cooling , a crop of beautiful pale-yellow cubical crystals made their appearance ; these were again digested with animal charcoal , and from the filtered solution , fine , large , nearly colourless and transparent rhombic prisms of the new substance were obtained .
They were drlied first between folds of bibulous paper , and then in vacuo over sulphuric acid , after which no further diminution in weight took place on reducing them to powder and heating them for two hours in an air-bath at their melting-point , viz. 240 ?
FAHR. Unlike therefore the homologous compound obtained by CHANCEL from nitrobenzamide , this substance contains no water of crystallization .
When the fulsed mass was removed from the air-bath , at the moment of solidification , it burst with a slight explosion into a heap of glistening crystalline plates .
Ana &amp; ysis.-The combustion was made in the usual manner with oxide of copper .
I. '442 grm. produced 1 035 grtn .
carbonic acid and '270 grin .
water .
11 .
'4057 grm. yielded *948 grin .
carbonic acid and '249 grm. water , numbers which correspond centesimally to I. II .
Carbon ... .6386 63-72 Hydrogen ... 679 6'82 On heating a portion of the substance with soda-lime in a green glass retort , ammonia was first plentifully disengaged ; but on raising the heat a yellowish oily liquid distilled over , which in the course of half an hour solidified into a crystalline mass , having the peculiar smell of the aniline class of organic bases .
Although no doubt was entertained that this substance was toluidine , it was thought desirable to determine the fact experimentally .
Three or four gramnnes of the new substance were therefore distilled with caustic potash , and the solid product , after having been washed two or three times with water , was saturated with an alcoholic solution of oxalic acid .
It was evaporated to dryness on the water-bath , then redissolved in boiling alcoliol and filtered ; the crystals which separated on cooling were washed with cold distilled water , then redissolved in boiling water , and decomposed by caustic potash ; some clear oily drops separated , which were dissolved in ether , and the ethereal solution evaporated to dryness .
The residue was dissolved in hydrochloric acid , and mixed with an alcoholic solution of bichloride of platinum ; a fine orange-coloured crystalline mass was obtained , which was washed with ether and dried on the water-bath .
It was decomposed by ignition in a porcelain crucible .
Analysis.--595 grn. yielded '1872 grm. of metallic platinum =31'46 per cent. The formula of the double chloride of platinum and toluidine ( C,4 Hg N , HC1 , PtCl , ) requires 31'6 per cent. of platinum .
The crystalline body obtained by the distillation of the new substance with caustic potash was therefore evidently toluidine .
The decomposition which nitrotoluylamide undergoes under the influence of hydrosulphate of ammonia is in exact accordance with the reactions constantly observed between this reducing agent and nitrated organic bodies , and is represented in the following equation : C16 { NO ) O , , NH2+6HS=C,16 H1o N2 0+4HO+6S .
Nitrotoluylamide .
New substance .
The proportion per cent. of carbon and hydrogen required by the formula C16 HI , N2 2 , are , Carbon ... 64"00 Hydrogen ... .
6'61 which agree very closely with those obtained by the combustion of the new substance with oxide of copper .
This substance has two homologues in the benzoyl or immediately preceding series , viz. carbamide-carbanilide , a neutral body discovered by Dr. HOFMANN* , and the true urea of the aniline series discovered by M. CHANCELt , both represented by the formula C4 H8 N2 02=C16 H , o N2 02-C2 H2 .
The origin of the crystalline compound under examination , which is perfectly analogous to that of aniline urea , renders it at once probable that it is the analogue of the latter , an assumption which was fully corroborated by the study of its properties and chemical deportment .
It has all the chemical functions of ordinary urea , its taste is cooling and slightly bitter ; it is very soluble in water , alcohol , and ether .
Its aqueous solution may be kept for some time without change , but after some weeks it acquires a brownish colour , and flocculent matter is deposited .
It is a true organic base , and forms crystalline compounds with several acids .
On dissolving some of the crystals in weak nitric acid and placing the solution under a bell jar over sulphuric acid , the whole soon became a crystalline mass ; and when the small quantity of adhering nitric acid was removed by affusion with cold water , and the crystals dissolved and boiled with animal charcoal , the nitrate was obtained by spontaneous evaporation in large and nearly colourless thin plates , the taste of which was cooling and slightly bitter , hardly to be distinguished from that of nitre .
By dissolving some of the crystals in dilute oxalic acid , and placing the filtered solution over sulphuric acid , a crystalline mass was obtained , from which the oxalate of the new base was obtained in long , transparent , and nearly colourless needles , by washing away as before the excess of acid , redissolving in water , and allowing the solution to crystallize spontaneously .
The limited quantity of this substance at my disposal , and the very great difficulty of preparing it , prevented my inaking a quantitative determination of any of its salts .
When heated a little above its fusing-point the base takes fire , burning with a red smoky flame and leaving much carbon .
I propose for it the name of toluyl-urea ; its r elation with CHANCEL'S compound and with the urea type appears from the following synopsis : Urea ... C H1 N O0 Anilo-urea. .
C2 H , ( C2 , H5 ) N2 02 Toluyl-urea. .
C H , ( C , H ) N,2 O. Product of the Decomposition of Toluyl-urea .
On heating some of the pulverised crystals strongly with caustic potash , ammonia was first disengaged , and then toluidine distilled over ; when , however , an aqueous solution was boiled with a solution of caustic potash till ammonia ceased to be evolved and the potash then neutralized with an acid , the acid being left slightly in excess , a clear yellow liquid was obtained , from which after a few hours ' standing there was deposited a group of magnificent golden-yellow needles , which only required a second solution and crystallization to render them perfectly pure .
They were dried first between folds of filtering paper , then reduced to powder and thoroughly dried in the air-bath , after which they underwent no further loss of weight by being fused .
Analysis.-This was made in the ordinary manner by combustion with oxide of copper .
I. '3355 grro .
produced '780 grm. carbonic acid and -188 grm. water .
II .
'4042 grm. gave '939 grm. carbonic acid and -224 grlm .
water , corresponding centesimally to I. II .
Carbon ... .
63*46 63'22 Hydrogen ... 2 62 615 48 By heating with soda-lime toluidine distilled over and solidified in the receiver .
The new body thus formed is a well-defined acid , producing a series of crystalline salts ; those of potash , soda , and atmmonia , crystallized with difficulty ; the lime and baryta salts , though exceedingly soluble , were obtained after long standing over sulphuric acid in fine acicular tufts .
The lead salt was obtained by dropping the ammonia compound into solution of acetate of lead ; it fell as a white powder , which when boiled with a large quantity of distilled water , and filtered , separated , as the solution cooled , in the form of long , brilliant , transparent , and nearly colourless needles with tufted ends .
By decomposing this lead salt by dilute sulphuric acid , the new acid was again obtained in long needles having a fine crimson colour .
On adding a solution of the ammonia salt to a solution of nitrate of silver , a copious gray crystalline precipitate fell , which , when washed with cold distilled water , and then redissolved in a large quantity of boiling water , furnished the silver salt of the new acid in the form of thin plates , of a glistening and brilliant appearance .
After a second crystallization the salt was dried in the dark in vacuo over sulphuric acid , and then submitted to analysis .
Analysis.-I .
*495 grm. gave '672 grm. carbonic acid and 148 grm. water .
II .
*318 grm. left by ignition in a porcelain capsule '132 grm. of metallic silver .
III .
'337 grm. left '1409 grm. of silver , results which correspond in 100 parts to I. II .
III .
Carbon ... .
37'02 Hydrogen ... .
332 Silver ... 41'51 41'81 .
If we assume that this new acid is formed forom toluyl-urea by the elimination of one equivalent of ammonia and by the assumption of the elements of two equivalents of water , the substance thus hypothetically obtained will be represented by the formula C16 H9 N 04 ; thus C16 Ho0 N2 02 H3 N C16 HI N 2O + H2 02 C,6 HN O , and on comparing the numbers obtained by the analysis of the acid and its silver salt with those calculated from the above formula , we find such an agreement as to place beyond doubt the accuracy of the assumption .
Thus , the formula C,6 H NO4 MDcccLtv .
H~~~~~~9 49 requires Carbon ... .
63'57 Hydrogen ... .
595 and that of AgO , C16 H8 NO3 requires Carbon .
37'21 Hydrogen ... .
310 Silver ... 4 86 The numbers actually obtained from the analysis of the acid and its silver salt are , for the acid , Mean .
Carbon ... . .
63'34 Hydrogen ... .
6-18 for the silver salt , Carbon ... 37'02 Hydrogen ... .
332 Silver. .
41'66 This acid , for which I propose the provisional name of Carbo-toluylic acid , has several representatives in the benzoyl series , viz. anthranilic acid , obtained by FRITZSCHE by the action of caustic potash on indigo ; benzamic acid , the product of the action of hydrosulphuric acid on nitrobenzoic acid discovered by ZININ ; and , lastly , carbanilic acid , prepared by CHANCEL , by treating nitrobenzamide with hydrosulphuric acid .
Of these three acids , which are all represented by the formula C,4 H7 NO4=C,6 H9 N04C2 H , , benzamic and carbanilic acids have lately been found by M. GERLAND* to be identical , while anthranilic acid is a body of a different type .
It remains to be examined , to which of these two acids , whether to anthranilic or to carbanilic acids , the new acid above described corresponds .
The mode of its generation would render it probable that it is homologous to carbanilic acid , whence the provisional name I have assigned to it ; should it however prove on further examination to correspond rathetr to anthranilic acid , then the convertibility of this acid into salicylic acid by means of nitrous acid , first suggested by Dr. HOFMANNt , and lately experimentally confirmed by M. GERLAND+ , would appear to indicate that the analogous transformation of the new acid would furnish a secries of new substances which at presenlt are entirely wanting , namely , the proper homologues of salicylic acid and its derivatives .
Thus : HO , C14 H NO3+N03=HO , ( 14 H5 05+2N+HO Anthranilic acid .
Salicylic acid .
HO= , CHNO1--O , CH7 05+2N+HO New acid .
Homologue of salicylic acid .
The extreme difficulty however of preparing the different substances described in 50 this paper , and more especially the costly nature of the hydrocarbon ( cymol ) , which constitutes the ( at present ) only known source of the parent acid , viz. nitrotoluylic acid , form unfortunate barriers to the continuation of the investigation .
Cymol , however , doubtless exists among the liquid products of the distillation of coal ; indeed , Mr. MANSFIELD , in his valuable memoir on Coal Tar* , describes a fluid which distils over between 1700 and 1720 ( 338 ?
0 to 342 ?
FAHR. ) , " which bears so strong a resemblance to cymolin odour , and in other properties , as to induce a belief that this body is identical with the hydrocarbon existing in cumin oil .
" It is my intention to search for it in this fluid , and should it prove possible to obtain it cheaply and in abundance , the experiment above suggested , and many others of equal scientific interest , will be made , the results of which I shall hope to be allowed the honour of submitting to the Royal Society .
In conclusion , I will give a tabular view of the corresponding members of the benzoyl and toluyl groups , the parallelism of which in the present and previous memoirl I have had the pleasure of establishing .
Benzoyl series .
HO , C14H,503 0 HO , C H , O. k -v a ... .9 Nitrobenzoic acid .
H4 .
---H Nitrobenzamide .
C2 H , ( C12 H , ) N2 02 11~-V-~---.-Anilo-urea .
HO , C,4 H6 NO , Carbanilic acid .
Toluyl series .
HO , C16 H7 0 Toluylic acid .
HO* *C 16{ Nitrotoluylic acid .
N C16{o }20 NH2 Nitrotoluylamide .
C2 H3 ( C14 H7 ) N2 02 L ... .J Toluyl-urea .
HO , C16 118 N03 Carbo-toluylic acid .

