60 Dr. 8 .
Bidwell , of [ May X6 , \lt ; f On the Magnetic Changes of : Length in Annealed .Rods of Cobalt and 'Nickel .
" 'By Shelford Bidwellv .M.A .
, ScJDv , F.R.S. Received May 16 , \#151 ; Bead June 1904 , The dimensions of a piece of magnetic metal are , in general , changed by magnetisation .
When subjected to a longitudinal field gradually increasing from a small value , an ordinary iron wire is at first extended , then , after passing a maximum , it recovers its original length , and ; finally becomes shorter than when unmagnetised.* In a paper communicated to the Society in 1894f I showed that the changes usually observed were modified if the iron had been annealed .
In annealed iron the maximum extension is diminished and contraction begins in a weaker magnetic field the elongation \#166 ; curve is , in fact , lowered to an extent dependent upon the completeness of the annealing .
In the case of a certain soft-iron ring ' which had been raised to a bright red heat and allowed to cool slowly for about 14 hours , there was no preliminary elongation at ally retraction beginning ( just as in nickel ) with a very small magnetising force .
It is of interest to note that after the lapse of 10 years the ring still retains its peculiar quality ; on May 9 , 1904 a perceptible diminution of its diameter was observed with a'force of no more than 3 C , G.S. units , the : diminution , of course , becoming greater with ; stronger forces , Ah unannealed ring of the-same iron attained its greatest elongation , 33 ten-millionths , in a field* of 80 , and did not begin to contract until the field reached 420 .
In the course of some recent work it became desirable to ascertain , whether the changes of length exhibited by'magnetised cobalt were analogously affected .
Cobalt in the ordinary condition behaves-oppositely to iron , contracting in weak fields and lengthening in strong ones , It might be expected , therefore , that if the metal were annealed it would begin to lengthen at an earlier stage of the magnetisation , possibly without any initial contraction .
In searching the literature of the subject ; before undertaking the experiment , I found a very interesting paper by the Japanese physicists Honda and Shimizu : entitled " Change in Length of Ferromagnetic Substances under High and Low Temperatures by Magnetisation .
" ] ; Among the numerous , curves given are two showing the changes of length produced by magnetisation in " cast cobalt " and " annealed cobalt " at ordinary temperatures .
The curve for " east~cobait~ " is of the same character as- * Bidwell , * Phil. Trans./ A , 1888 , p. 205 .
t ' Proc. Roy .
Soc./ vol. 55 , p. 228 .
X 6 Tokyo Sugaku-Buturigakkwai Hokoku/ No. 19 , p. 197 .
The authors were* good enough to send me a copy of the paper in 1903 ; unfortunately it was not read with the care it deserved until May , 1904 .
1904 } ' ?
Length in Annealed Jtods of Nickel ' .
61 ' the one published by myself 16 years ago* ( curve ( a)* fig. l ) ; .tbaf for " annealed cobalt " is an almost straight line , lying , however , not above , but below the axis of H\gt ; ; .up to the field of 800 units , at which the experiment was stopped , there is no evidence that the contraction was tending to a limit .
.The authors makei no ' comment ' whatever-upon this remarkable effect , which may perhaps be well known in Japan , though I have never seen^ahy reference to it in European publications .
* 7 T\#151 ; ; 1 ' .
' ... ... ' The experiments described ; in the present paper were made with ; two different samples of cobalt , the one a cast rod , 9 cm .
long and 0*56 cm .
in diameter , the other a rolled strip , 10 cm .
ip length , 0*6 cm .
in width and 0*08 cm .
in thickness .
These Were enclosed in porcelain tubes , and placed side by side in the middle of a hot,.fire , not being removed until the fire had died out some 5 or 6 hours later .
In fig. 1 , curve ( b)shows , the result of an experiment with the Fig. 1 .
-\#163 ; 50 Woo 8oo Cast cobalt , ( a ) unaanealed , ( 6 ) annealed .
annealed cast cobalt ... \#187 ; -It will be- noticed , that the points of observation appear to indicate a slight sinuosity , but harcfiy greater than might be accounted for by experimental errors 7 a straight dine .drawn from the origin to the final point seems , to pass evpnly enough through the Others .
, The curve agrees , well with , that given by Honda and Shimizu , and though the field was carried , toa much higher value than was reached by , them , there is still no : sign .that the ; contraction was approaching a limit .
Curve , ( a ) , fig. 1 , shows the changes of length exhibited by , another piece of ; the same cast pobalt , when in the unannealed state .
bvu:'f a vd c , u it \#166 ; - , i h-irnSv/ * The effect of annealing upon the rolled cobalt was altogether 62 Dr. S. Bid well .
On the Magnetic Changes of [ May 16* different .
The behaviour of the unannealed piece is indicated by curve ( c ) , fig. 2 ; it differs from that of the cast metal chiefly in the fact that the maximum retraction occurs in a much weaker field .
The curve ( d ) for the annealed strip indicates a maximum retraction greater in degree* though it is reached in about the same field .
The ascending limbs of Fig. 2 .
Rolled cobalt , ( c ) unannealed* ( d ) annealed .
the two curves are nearly parallel , but it is probable that the curve for the annealed strip would in very strong fields become asymptotic , never meeting the axis of H ; an observation made with a field of 1750 , 350 units beyond the limit of the diagram , showed that the retraction was still 9 ten-millionths of the length .
The results of two experiments made with nickel before and after annealing are given in curves ( e)and ( / ) , fig. 3 .
The piece used was a thick wire 9 cm .
in length and O'35 cm .
in diameter .
After the first series of observations had been made , the wire was annealed in exactly the same manner as the cobalt , and again tested , with the result shown in curve ( / ) .
The modification effected in the form of the retraction curve is quite similar to that which annealing produces in the curve of magnetisation , and is probably due to nothing more than increased magnetic susceptibility .
No such simple explanation can of course be given of the changes which are brought about in the behaviour of iron and cobalt .
The fact that the two nickel curves intersect in a field of 1150 units may be merely an effect of temperature .
The magnetic retraction of nickel is , as I have remarked in former papers , sensibly affected by small changes of temperature , and the intersection would be accounted for if the annealed wire happened to be a few degrees warmer ' than the unannealed .
As a consequence of the reciprocal relation between the changes of 1904 .
] Length in Annealed Rods of Cobalt and Nickel .
63 Fig. 3 .
iooo Drawn nickel , ( e ) unannealed , ( f ) annealed .
length produced by magnetisation , and the changes of magnetisation attending mechanical strain , * it may be inferred that there would be no Villari reversal in well-annealed iron , like that of which the ring above referred to consisted , nor in annealed cast cobalt .
In the rolled cobalt , however , to which the curves in fig. 2 relate , it might be expected that the effect would be considerably increased by annealing .
* J. J. Thomson , 'Applications of Dynamics to Physics and Chemistry , ' pp. 47\#151 ; 59 .
VOL. LXXIV .
F

