A Letter on the Differences in the Structure of Calculi , which arise from their being formed in different Parts of the Urinary Passages ; and on the Effects that are produced upon them , by the internal Use of solvent Medicines , from Mr. William Brand to Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read May 19 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 223 .
] Mr. Brande 's observations were made during an examination of the calculi contained in the Hunterian Museum , and of some also in the possession of Mr. Home .
Three calculi , formed in the kidneys , were examined .
One consisted of uric acid , nearly pure ; another , weighing seven grains , contained 4uric acid , and 2animal matter .
A third consisted of oxalate of lime ; and it is added that a fine powder is also voided from the kidneys , consisting of the ammoniacal phosphate of magnesia , and of phosphate of lime .
Calculi retained in the infundibula , or pelvis of the kidneys , may be increased either by a deposition of uric acid , or may be coated by an external lamina , consisting of the phosphates .
Calculi met with in the bladder , are of four kinds .
1 .
Formed on nuclei of uric acid , from the kidneys .
2 .
On nuclei of oxalate of lime , from the kidneys .
3 .
Formed on sand or mucus deposited in the bladder .
4 .
Formed on extraneous bodies introduced into the bladder .
Those consisting of uric acid vary in colour , from a deep reddish brown to a pale yellowish brown .
Those containing phosphate of lime , and the triple phosphate of magnesia , are whiter , and are often soft and friable .
Those which colntain oxalate of lime , called mulberry calculi , are browner , harder , and less soluble .
Out of 150 examined by Mr. Brand , 16 were composed of uric acid .
l 45 principally uric acid , with a small proportion of the phosphates .
66 principally phosphates , but containing a small quantity of uric acid .
12 phosphates only .
5 uric acid , and phosphates on a nucleus of oxalate of lime .
6 chiefly oxalate of lime .
It is observed by Mr. Brand , that calculi from the bladder , consisting of uric acid , contain a larger proportion of animal matter combined with it , than is usually found in kidney-calculi .
One calculus , weighing twenty-five grains , being digested for two hours in water , lost 5I grains , which were found , after evaporation of the water , to be principally urea , combined with some muriate of ammonia , and a little of the triple phosphate of magnesia .
Sixty grains of another calculus also yielded 52 of urea to alcohol ; and being afterwards treated with acetic acid , they lost six more grains by solution of triple phosphate , and the remaining 48-8 were pure uric acid .
It is observed , that the presence of the triple phosphate along with uric acid , would occasion all the phenomena that have been ascribed to a supposed urate of ammonia .
Of Calculi from other animals , examined by Mr. Brand .-One from the kidney of a horse contained 76 phosphate of lime , 22 carbonate of lime : another from the bladder of a horse , 45 phosphate of lime , 28 triple phosphate of magnesia , 10 carbonate of lime , and 15 animal matter .
Calculi from the bladder of an ox were found to be carbonate of lime with animal matter .
A calculus from a sheep 's kidney contained 72 phosphate of lime , 20 carbonate of lime , and 8 animal matter .
The sediment from the urine of a rhinoceros was principally carbonate of lime , with a small proportion of phosphate of lime .
A large calculus , from the bladder of an old dog , contained 64 phosphate of lime , 30 ammoniacal phosphate of magnesia , and 6 of animal matter .
A calculus from a hog 's bladder was principally carbonate of lime .
One from a rabbit contained phosphate of lime , and carbonate of lime , nearly in equal quantities .
Because of the difficulty of accounting for the formation of oxalate of lime , Mr. Brand has frequently examined the urine of calculous patients , but has never been able to detect it , either there or in healthy urine .
With respect to the use of solvents , it is observed , that those which have been recommended , under different circumstances , are of two kinds , acid or alkaline , opposite in their nature to each other , and accordingly each liable to occasion whatever the other is adapted to remove .
The alkalies may prevent the formation of uric calculi , but will increase the disposition to form the phosphates .
So also the acid , which dissolves the earthy phosphates , will at least have no action upon a nucleus of uric acid , and may occasion it to be increased by a fresh deposition .

