81 The Properties of Colloidal Systems.\#151 ; II .
On Adsorption as Preliminary to Chemical Reaction .
By W. M. Bayliss , E.R.S. , Institute of Physiology , University College , London .
( Received April 7 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1911 .
) When a reaction takes place in a heterogeneous system certain preliminary processes occur , so that the velocity of the reaction as measured is naturally that of the slowest of all the stages , including the chemical reaction proper .
In the first place , since the reacting bodies are not uniformly distributed , one of them is compelled to travel a certain distance in order that contact with the other one may take place , e.g. in the case of a sheet of zinc immersed in dilute hydrochloric acid , it is necessary that the ions taking-part in the reaction diffuse from the distant parts of the liquid phase in order to reach the surface of the solid phase .
Hence , diffusion is the first stage of the reaction as a whole .
In the second place , at the interface , where the separate phases are in contact , there exists a local accumulation of energy , surface energy , as it is called .
How it has been shown by Willard Gibbs* that if a substance in solution in either phase by concentration at the surface of contact will reduce the surface energy there , such a process will of necessity take place , if it is possible .
This theorem is a case of the general result of Gibbs , expressible in the following way : Increase of concentration at a surface will always occur when the potential of any form of energy at this surface can be diminished by the process .
Electrical , thermal , and chemical changes are included in this statement , and not only mechanical changes such as those of surface tension .
The name " adsorption " has been given to this form of condensation of bodies on the surfaces of contact between the phases of heterogeneous systems , and the name should be confined to this use .
It has unfortunately been applied by some writers to any " loose " combination of an ill-defined chemical nature ; thereby unnecessary confusion has been caused .
There is , no doubt , evidence that the chemical configuration of the surface itself plays a part in the phenomenon , f but it is none the less essentially due to action at the surface .
* 'Connecticut Acad. Proc. , ' 1876 ; The Scientific Papers of Willard Gibbs , ' 1906 , vol. 1 , p. 219 .
t See Starling , ' Recent Advances in the Physiology of Digestion , ' London , 1906 , p. 40 .
VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. G Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 7 , The mathematical expression correlating the concentration of the body in solution with the amount adsorbed by a particular surface in contact with this solution is of an exponential form , which is undoubtedly due to the manner in which the degree of diminution of surface energy is related to the amount adsorbed .
We may say , then , that adsorption is , as a rule , the second stage in a heterogeneous reaction .
If the bodies brought into close contact by the above-mentioned surface condensation do not react with one another in the chemical sense , the whole process ends at this stage .
A case of this kind is that of the condensation of aniline on the surface of mercury , investigated by Lewis* Complete absence of chemical reaction is , however , not common .
Where it occurs the rate at which it takes place varies considerably in different cases .
It is important to remember , indeed , that , in agreement with the law of mass action , this velocity will be a function of the amount adsorbed , and therefore much greater than if no surface condensation had taken place .
Chemical reaction is the third and last stage of heterogeneous reactions , and is , as a rule , the stage which conditions the rate of the process as a whole .
Adsorption is rapid , and diffusion has not usually to take place through more than very short distances.^ When colloidal solutions are concerned , the " disperse " phase may consist either of ultra-microscopic particles of a solid , or of droplets of a liquid immiscible with that in which they are suspended .
Moreover , the body adsorbed may be either in true solution or colloidal solution .
It will be obvious that , even if the adsorbed body does not enter into chemical combination with that upon whose surface it is condensed , nevertheless a kind of complex is produced , which may be separated from the rest of the system .
Such bodies have tfeen called " adsorption compounds , " or , when both components are colloids , " colloidal complexes .
" In most cases it is a matter of some difficulty to show what their real nature is ; their existence even is denied by many investigators .
Assuming that such compounds are formed in any particular case , the velocity of the subsequent chemical reaction will be a function of the amount of the adsorption compound in existence at a given instant of time , and this again is an exponential function of the concentration of the solution of the adsorbed body .
Accordingly , the form of the expression correlating the velocity of the reaction with the concentration of the reagents will also be an exponential one .
* ' Zeit .
f. physik .
Chem. , ' 1910 , vol. 79 , pp. 129\#151 ; 147 .
t See Arrhenius , ' Immunochemistry , ' p. 142 , New York , 1907 .
Also Loevenherz , ' Zeit .
f. physik .
Chem. , ' 1894 , vol. 15 , pp. 389\#151 ; 398 .
1911.1 The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
83 This being so , a proof of the actual existence of such a kind of compound is of some interest .
When the chemical reaction following the formation of the adsorption compound takes place very slowly , it may also be possible to obtain the latter in an isolated condition .
I have , in the course of other work , met with an instance where the adsorption compound and the true chemical compound are unmistakably different bodies , both having a visible , concrete existence .
1 .
Adsorption Compounds of Colloidal Acid with Colloidal Bases .
If to a solution of Congo red an excess of hydrochloric acid be added , the blue free acid is precipitated ; but , if the precipitate be suspended in water and dialysed , a deep blue colloidal solution is formed , as described in a previous paper.* Freshly precipitated and well-washed aluminium hydroxide is suspended in water , and a small quantity of the blue acid colloid is added .
A dark blue precipitate falls , which can be washed by decantation , best with the aid of the centrifuge , and again suspended in water .
It remains dark blue , and might hastily be supposed to be merely an aggregated portion of the acid colloid .
That this is not so , and that the body contains also aluminium hydroxide , is shown at once by its behaviour on warming .
When this is done , a red solution is rapidly formed , which , on cooling , deposits flakes of a red substance , while the solution itself becomes pale in colour .
The same change occurs at room temperature , but very slowly .
It is evident that we have here , in the adsorption compound formed at first , acid and base existing side by side but uncombined .
On heating , chemical combination takes place with the formation of the aluminium salt of Congo red , which , like all the salts of this acid , is of a red colour .
Congo red is a convenient body for the present purpose , since the salts are of a colour which is so different from that of the acid .
The precise manner in which combination is caused to take place by the action of heat does not immediately concern us ; the important fact is that a body can be prepared containing acid and base uncombined .
The mode of formation of the adsorption compound is , it will be noticed , to all intents and purposes a case of the mutual precipitation of electropositive and electro-negative colloids , in this case , aluminium hydroxide and Congo-red acid respectively .
The dry preparation of aluminium hydroxide supplied by Kahlbaum can be used , but , owing to the large size of the grains , it is not very effective .
It is important that , whatever preparation be used , no free caustic alkali * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1909 , vol. 81 , p. 270 .
Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 7 , must be present , otherwise the red salt of the dye with this alkali is formed at once .
The adsorption compound , if formed at all , only exists for an infinitesimally short time , owing to the rapidity of the chemical reaction .
In order to obtain as large a relative surface of the hydroxide as possible I have made various hydroxides in colloidal solution , prepared by dialysis of solutions of salts which are hydrolytically dissociated .
Ferric chloride , aluminium acetate , zirconium and thorium nitrates have been treated in this way .
With ferric hydroxide , although the result of the experiment is quite distinct , the change of colour on heating is not so obvious as with a colourless hydroxide .
Aluminium hydroxide is good , but is unstable when sufficiently dialysed .
The best of all those with which I have worked are the colloidal hydroxides of zirconium and of thorium , which are beautifully clear and colourless solutions .
The clearness is , of course , an indication of the minute size of the suspended particles .
Like all solutions prepared in the way described , they still contain , even after prolonged dialysis , traces of the original acid .
If this is present in too large a proportion , no red salt is formed even on heating the adsorption compound .
This fact was shown in a striking way in my first preparation of zirconium hydroxide , which had been insufficiently dialysed .
In this case , although the adsorption compound was duly precipitated , it did not become red on heating .
When the adsorption compound was suspended in water and subjected to further dialysis , it was noticed to be turning slightly reddish at room temperature ; on boiling , the change to the red salt was immediate .
The- compound with thorium hydroxide seems to require heating for a longer time before combination occurs than do the others ; but this may be merely owing to the presence of more acid in the particular preparation .
As is usual in the case of mutual precipitation of colloids , the readiness with which the precipitate falls depends on the rate at which the one colloid is added to the other.* If the rate is too slow , or the solutions are too dilute , the adsorption compound does not deposit but remains in suspension as a complex colloid .
Moreover , a trace of a protective colloid , such as gelatin , is sufficient to prevent precipitation .
An analogous case to the one just described was met with by Yan Bemmelen.f If barium hydroxide solution be added to colloidal silica , a white precipitate falls , which is found to contain both barium hydroxide and silicic acid , not .
in combination .
On standing , barium silicate is slowly formed .
* Freundlich , ' Kapillarchemie , ' Leipzig , 1909 , p. 444 .
t ' Zeit .
f. anorg .
Chem. , ' 1903 , vol. 36 , p. 380 .
Also p. 486 of the Gesammelte Abhandl .
von J. M. van Bemmelen , ' herausgegebeh von Wo .
Ostwald .
Dresden , 1910 .
The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
1911 .
] The velocity of production of sulphuric acid in the method of platinum catalysis has been shown by Bodenstein and Fink* to be controlled by the adsorption of SO3 on the surface of the platinum .
Denhamf has made a detailed investigation of the catalytic influence of platinum on the reduction of titanic sulphate by hydrogen , and is led to the conclusion that the chief part in the reaction is played by surface condensation , in the sense of Willard Gibbs .
The work of Lewis already referred to demands further notice in the present connection .
The amount of aniline condensed on the surface of mercury was found to be in agreement with that given by the formula of Gibbs deduced from thermodynamic considerations .
When , however , colloids or electrolytically dissociated salts were concerned , the Gibbs formula ceased to apply .
It would seem that surface energy of a kind other than that dealt with by Gibbs plays a part in these cases .
In all probability the origin of this form of surface energy is to be looked for in electrical forces .
The toxic action of salts on living protoplasm , J and the action of mercuric chloride as an antiseptic , S have been found to be proportional to the amount deposited on the surfaces of the organisms or of their constituent colloids ; in other words , the exponential equation is found to apply .
It is possible that chemical reactions in the strict sense of the word follow adsorption .
It has been suggested by Wo .
Ostwald || that the taking up of oxygen by hsemoglobin is conditioned by a surface adsorption process , since the curve of percentage saturation in relation to oxygen tension is best expressed by an exponential formula .
The work of Barcroft and HillH has shown that heat in definite proportion is given out when haemoglobin combines with oxygen , so that it appears that chemical combination follows adsorption as a further stage .
At the same time it should not be forgotten that the condensation of a gas is associated with the liberation of heat and in direct ratio to the amount condensed .
Findlay and Creighton** have shown that the solubility of certain gases in water is affected considerably by the presence of surfaces therein , and are inclined to attribute the phenomena to adsorption .
\#171 ; * * * S ** * ' Zeit .
f. physik .
Chem. , ' 1907 , vol. 60 , p. 43 .
t ' Zeit .
f. physik .
Chem. , ' 1910 , vol. 72 , pp. 641\#151 ; 695 .
+ W ' .
Ostwald and A. Dernoschek , ' Kolloid-Zeit .
, ' 1910 , vol. 6 , p. 297 .
S Hugo Morawitz , ' Roll .
chem .
Beihefte , ' 1910 , vol. 1 , pp. 317\#151 ; 323 .
|| ' Kolloid-Zeit .
, ' 1908 , vol. 2 , pp. 264 and 294 .
1 ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' 1909 , vol. 39 , p. 411 .
** 'Trans .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1910 , vol. 97 , p. 560 .
Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 7 , 2 .
The Part Played by Adsorption in Enzyme Action .
In a paper published some five years ago , * I suggested the view that an adsorption compound is formed between an enzyme and its substrate preliminary to the chemical reaction properly so-called .
That combination of some kind occurs is generally accepted , so that my hypothesis is to be regarded as a more definite statement as to the nature of this compound .
It does not , indeed , exclude a subsequent combination of a more truly chemical nature .
The evidence in favour of the adsorption hypothesis is mainly indirect , but during the time succeeding its first publication numerous facts have come to light which confirm it in a variety of ways .
Some of these facts which have been the subject of investigation by myself will be discussed in the present paper .
Two main lines of experiment have been pursued .
In the first place , the process by which enzymes are removed from their solutions by substrate or inert bodies , such as charcoal or paper , will be briefly considered , and in the second place , the significance of the form of the mathematical expression correlating the concentration of the enzyme with the degree of activity will be shown .
Adsorption of Enzymes by Surfaces.\#151 ; The work of many investigators has proved that many various substances , with which it is difficult to suppose that enzymes are capable of forming chemical compounds , are able to remove them from solution .
Such bodies are charcoal , kaolin , sand , and paper .
When , therefore , we find that enzymes are removed by colloidal substrates , the hypothesis naturally suggests itself that a similar process takes place , surface concentration will occur whether the adsorbed body can act further or not .
I showedf that calcium caseinogenate is capable of removing from solution , in some form or other , both trypsin and diastase .
Now although it is possible that there may be chemical combination in the case of trypsin and caseinogen , since chemical decomposition results from the contact , it does hot seem likely that a similar state of affairs obtains in the case of diastase and caseinogen , a substrate upon which the enzyme has no action .
By analogy with certain 6ther catalytic phenomena , it seems reasonable to hold that , when chemical action results , an intermediate compound of a chemical nature has been formed , subsequent to adsorption , and that this compound afterwards breaks up , setting free the enzyme at the same time as the products of its activity .
* 'Biochem .
Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 1 , pp. 222\#151 ; 226 .
+ 'Biochem .
Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 1 , p. 224 .
1911 .
] The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
It might be argued against the formation of chemical union of trypsin with caseinogen that when a suspension of free caseinogen ( i.e. the free acid , not a salt ) is allowed to interact with a solution of trypsin , enzyme is removed by the suspended particles , and if this complex is washed and distributed in water , no hydrolysis of the caseinogen takes place , until alkali is added .
It is very possible , however , that the intermediate compound may be formed , but that it is stable in the absence of alkali .
On the other hand , Starkenstein* has described an experiment which appears to show that the adsorption and chemical compounds are bodies of a distinct nature , if indeed the latter can be said to be formed at all under the conditions in question .
Amylase , obtained from the liver , was found to be quite inactive unless an electrolyte such as sodium chloride was present .
Accordingly , if a dialysed preparation of the enzyme be shaken up at 40 ' C. with a mixture of soluble starch and ordinary starch , no formation of sugar occurs .
If the mixture be filtered the soluble starch passes through the paper , leaving the rice starch behind .
Now , it would be expected that , if a chemical compound were formed , the filtrate would contain it , since the enzyme would more readily combine with soluble starch than with the insoluble body , or at all events with as great readiness .
On the contrary , the whole of the enzyme is found in the insoluble starch phase , as shown by the fact that addition of sodium chloride to both fractions and subsequent incubation caused the appearance of abundance of sugar in the latter but none in the filtrate .
Dietzf also has shown that the synthesis of amyl alcohol and butyric acid to the ester , as catalysed by lipase , takes place entirely in or upon the solid enzyme phase , which is insoluble in the fluid phase .
If the solid be filtered off from the reacting system the filtrate undergoes no further change , although when supplied with more enzyme synthesis proceeds .
The former enzyme had not lost its activity , moreover , since on adding it to more substrate , reaction went on .
It occurred to me that some light might be thrown on the question as to whether trypsin is removed from its solution by caseinogen in the form of a chemical or as an adsorption compound , by the investigation of the effect of electrolytes on the process .
I have shownj that the absorption by filter-paper of Congo red and other electro-negative colloids is increased by the presence of neutral salts ; the reason is that , both the paper and the colloid having negative charges , there is difficulty in their approximation until the * 'Biochem .
Zeitschr .
, ' 1910 , vol. 24 , p. 218 .
+ ' Zeitsclir .
f. physiol .
Chem. , ' 1907 , vol. 52 , p. 314 .
t ' Biochem. Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 1 , pp. 195\#151 ; 209 .
Dr. W. M. Bay lias .
[ Apr. 7 , charge of the paper has been neutralised or reversed by the cations of a salt in the solution .
Or , to put it in another way , the surface energy of the negative paper will not be reduced by the deposition of a body with a further charge of the same sign , whereas this will happen when the two charges have opposite signs .
The adsorption of electro-positive colloids by paper is retarded by neutral salts , because they reverse the difference in sign between the two bodies , making it similar , instead of opposite .
The enzyme experiments were made in the following way:\#151 ; Equal quantities of the various adsorbents were allowed to remain in contact with solutions of trypsin ( 2 per cent. ) either in distilled water or in 0*018 molar solution of calcium sulphate for 18 hours .
They were then filtered off , and equal amounts of each filtrate ( 2 c.c. ) added to equal amounts ( 20 c.c. ) of 5-per-cent , ammonium caseinogenate and then incubated at 37 ' C. for 4*5 hours .
The relative change was measured by determinations of the electrical conductivity .
The results were as follows:\#151 ; Adsorbent .
Solvent of enzyme .
Amount of change in recip .
ohms x 106 .
Caseinogen Water 1260 Calcium sulphate 975 Soluble starch Water 1325 \gt ; \gt ; Calcium sulphate 1165 Charcoal Water 800 51 Calcium sulphate 1070 Filter paper Water 1010 \#187 ; Calcium sulphate 885 Charcoal ( 2 ) Water 1015 99 Calcium sulphate 1050 In reading this table it must be remembered that a larger change means more enzyme in filtrate or less adsorbed .
The sign of the electric charge on all the bodies used was found to be negative , so that the result of all the experiments , with the exception of those with charcoal , corresponded to what happens when an electro-negative colloid , trypsin in this case , is adsorbed by an electro-negative surface in the presence or absence of neutral salts .
In the presence of calcium sulphate more enzyme was taken up by the surface , and therefore the filtrate was less active .
The opposite effect of bone charcoal is not easy to explain .
It perhaps lies in the circqmstance that charcoal contains a certain amount of salts ( ash constituents ) already , so that , even in the absence of added electrolyte , sufficient was present to ensure maximal adsorption .
The slightly greater effect of the filtrate to which calcium sulphate had originally been added would then be explained by the action of the small amount of 1911 .
] The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
89 calcium sulphate contained in the 2 c.c. of filtrate on the course of the hydrolysis itself .
Calcium salts are known to have a favouring effect on many enzymes .
This effect may , of course , be due to the increased adsorption of enzyme by substrate in the digesting system itself .
In the case of the other adsorbents , the effect of the small amount of calcium salt in the enzyme solution was overpowered by the opposite effect due to actual diminution of the total amount of enzyme present .
At the same time , experiments with sugar charcoal containing a minimum of electrolytes indicate that the above explanation of the anomalous behaviour of charcoal does not entirely account for the phenomena .
It was found , in fact , that , although the sugar charcoal did not give quite so marked a difference as bone charcoal , yet it was in the same direction , and opposite to the effects with other adsorbents .
The particular sample used ( Kahlbaum 's ) was in an extremely fine powder , which could not be filtered off completely from the suspensions in distilled water .
After the action of calcium sulphate it was aggregated to such a degree ' that filtration was easy.* The less adsorption in presence of the salt may therefore possibly have been due to the aggregation and consequent diminution of the active surface of the adsorbent .
An experiment was made in order to see whether this aggregation by calcium sulphate could be prevented by the presence of a stable colloid , such as gelatin .
In this experiment it was found , indeed , that the addition of gelatin in such amount as to make a concentration of 05 per cent. , which was too dilute to gelatinise at room temperature , prevented the aggregation of charcoal by calcium sulphate .
But it also prevented the action of the calcium salt on the adsorption of trypsin by charcoal , since the filtrate from the preparation containing the gelatin contained more enzyme than that from the control preparation without gelatin .
This effect is , in fact , similar to that observed when stable colloids are present in experiments on the adsorption of Congo red by filter paper under the influence of neutral salts.]* The results of the preceding section afford confirmatory evidence for the hypothesis of adsorption compounds between caseinogen and trypsin , as well as between trypsin and inert bodies .
It will be seen that the behaviour of both is the same with respect to salts .
Of course , the experiments afford no evidence for or against subsequent chemical combination .
* It was also deprived of its electric charge , as shown by the absence of any movement in an electric field .
t ' Biochem. Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 1 , p. 201 .
[ Apr. 7 Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
The Law Connecting Concentration and Activity of Enzymes .
If the velocity of enzyme action is conditioned in any given case by the amount of adsorption which has taken place , it follows that when the relative concentration of enzyme and substrate is varied , the corresponding change in the rate of action will be an exponential function of the concentration .
If , for example , the concentration of the enzyme is doubled , the velocity of the reaction will not thereby be doubled ; if the velocity with concentration of enzyme = 1 be called , that with enzyme concentration ft = 2 will not be ax 2 , but an expression of the form x 2 V* will be required , where n is , as a rule , any number between 1 and 2 .
It is not the purpose of the present paper to find a general law which shall apply to all enzymes under all conditions .
The experiments to which I intend to refer were made in order to see whether it is necessary to make use of an exponential form of expression , in which it may be regarded as probable that the value of the exponent will vary from case to case .
If this is so , we may reasonably conclude that an adsorption process is the controlling factor .
In all experiments whose object it is to compare the action of the same enzyme in varying concentrations , it is imperatively necessary that the times taken by each respectively to produce the same amount of change be taken as the basis of comparison .
It is very usual to find that , during the course of a reaction progressing under the action of an enzyme , substances are formed which act either as accelerators or retarders as the case may be .
A species of autocatalysis , positive or negative , takes place .
For example , trypsin acts most rapidly in alkaline solution , but in the process of hydrolysis of proteins by its agency , amino-acids are produced which neutralise a larger and larger part of the alkali as the reaction goes on .
On this account it is inadmissible in accurate work to take as basis of comparison the different amounts of change produced in equal times ; the reaction is not at the same stage in both , so that the concentration of accelerator or retarder is different .
If the object is merely to detect whether one of the two solutions is stronger than the other , of course the change in equal times may be compared .
My experiments have been made with trypsin and with invertase .
The trypsin experiments were done in the following way : A number of small stoppered flasks fitted with electrodes for the purpose of measuring the electrical conductivity of the contents were supplied each with 10 c.c. of 5-per-cent , ammonium caseinogenate .
When warmed in the thermostat at 39 ' C. , 2 c.c. of trypsin solution in the various dilutions required were added in turn to each and the electrical conductivity determined at intervals .
1911 .
] The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
I have shown* that this property gives an accurate estimate of the amount of chemical change which takes place in a trypsin digest .
The trypsin used in most experiments was a preparation obtained from Hopkin and Williams , occasionally an extract of pancreatin " Rhenania " was used .
For dilution it was thought necessary to make use of a boiled trypsin solution of the same concentration as that to be diluted , since the electrolyte concentration would be more nearly equal than if water were used .
From the data thus obtained curves were constructed , from which it was easy to obtain the time taken by each flask to arrive at the same stage of the reaction .
In many cases it was possible to compare the times taken to reach the various steps , for example , an increase of 1400 , 2000 , 3000 , etc. , recip .
megohms in conductivity .
The velocities of the reactions being inversely proportional to the times taken to effect a given change , the reciprocals of the values got from the curves were calculated and multiplied by a number , usually 104 , in order to avoid fractions .
As would be expected , it was found that , not infrequently , two or more of the members of a particular experiment would show an anomalous behaviour , easily detected on the curve and usually found to be due to incipient putrefaction , although toluene was always added at the commencement .
In the tables below these values are placed in brackets .
These tables are given in order to show the kind of data obtained , Tables I and II from two caseinogen experiments and Table III from one with gelatin as substrate .
No object would be gained by multiplying these tables , since they serve to bring out the exponential law .
The numbers under the head of trypsin concentration are merely relative to one another .
The highest , called 256 , is that of 2 c.c. of a 2-per-cent , solution , so that the lowest is l/ 256tli of this .
Table I. Concentration of enzyme .
i Reciprocal x 104 of time to effect change of 1400 .
2000 .
3000 .
4000 .
5000 .
1 3 .35 ' ) 1 -925 1 -164 2 \#174 ; '00 1 , 2 -78 1 -518 4 7 -4i f 4-265 2 -36 1 -573 1-178 8 11 -58 J 6-77 3 -55 1 -954 1 -335 ( 16 ) ( 51 -35 ) ( 31 -25 ) ( 14 -3 ) ( 7 -05 ) ( 3 -39 ) ( 32 ) ( 33 -33 ) ( 11 -8 ) ( 2 -73 ) ( 1 -22 ) 64 200-0 ] 111 -1 1 55 -55 22 -24 7-25 128 333-3 Ic 200-0 Ib 124 -3 52 3 32 4 256 500-0 J 400-0 J 257 -7 131 -0 51 -45 * ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' 1907 , vol. 36 , p. 221 .
Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 7 , Table II .
Concentration of enzyme .
Reciprocal : \lt ; 100 of time to effect change of 800 at initial stage .
600 in middle of reaction .
i 2-7 1 0 .695'1 2 5*27 i 1 *235 4 10 -o ?
A 1*9 .E 5 13 -35 2-08 8 22 '25^ 2 -44 Table III .
Concentration of enzyme .
Reciprocal x 104 of time for change of 350 .
725 .
900 .
40 3330 0 445 0 162 0 20 1540-0 133 -4 44-4 10 1000-0 45-9 15 -35 4 250-0 9-52 2 133-4 6-12 1 67-0 \lt ; 3-55 The letters with brackets refer to the similarly labelled curves of fig. 1 .
It will be seen from these numbers that there is no obvious relationship between the activities of the various concentrations .
In order to find out whether the simplest form of the adsorption equation x \#151 ; ylfn , where x is the reciprocal of the time taken to effect a given change , and y the concentration of the enzyme , will satisfy the experimental data , the most direct way is to take the logarithmic form of the equation , viz.\#151 ; l'g\#171 ; = ilogy , and plot the values on logarithmic paper .
If is constant , then the values will lie on a straight line and the tangent of the angle made by this line with the axis of abscissae will be the value of 1 Fig. 1 gives a few cases to illustrate how far the experimental results agree with a simple exponential law .
* See Freundlich , ' Zeitschr .
f. physik .
Chem./ 1907 , Band 57 , p. 391 ; and Ostwald , ' Lehrbuch der allgem .
Chemie , ' 1906 , 2te Aufl .
, Band 2 , Teil 3 , p. 232 .
1911 .
] The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
log C \#151 ; ?
Data from Fig. 1 .
Angle ( tan 0 ( = 1 jn ) .
n. A O 45 i i B 42 0-9 i-ii C 33 0-65 1 55 D 30 0-58 1 -72 E 27 -5 0-62 1 *92 P 15 0-27 3 -7 The numbers show , by taking values of n from different experiments , that it is fairly constant for values of enzyme concentration not very far removed from one another and for the same stage of the reaction .
It tends to approximate to unity at the beginning and end of the reaction , but is usually about 1*7 .
Very rarely is it found to be exactly 2 , as the Schiitz-Borissoff law requires ; although , if a particular limited region in the middle of the reaction be taken , it may have a value very near this , as shown by curve E , which represents the part of a trypsin experiment where the increase Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
, [ Apr. 7 , of conductivity changes from 1300 to 1800 recip .
megohms .
The total change being about 3500 , this is therefore the middle part of the reaction .
Invertase was taken as a case where only one of the components of the system , viz. the enzyme , is in the colloidal state , the substrate , cane-sugar , being in true solution .
It might be expected that the conditions would be such as to give a relationship more nearly that of a linear one .
The invertase experiments were made at a temperature of 25 ' C. , in order that the rate of the reaction should not be too rapid .
Samples were removed at intervals , mercuric nitrate added to precipitate the enzyme , excess of the reagent removed by caustic soda , filtered , made up to known volume , and finally the optical rotation determined for the mercury green line , using a three-field polarimeter by Schmidt and Haensch .
The results were dealt with in a manner similar to those with trypsin and give the curve F of fig. 1 .
The value of n for the stage of the reaction taken , viz. , time taken for one-quarter inversion , is unexpectedly high , 3*7 .
I am unable to suggest an explanation , for this wide divergence from both the linear and the square-root " laws .
" The separate curves of velocity of reaction were very nearly straight lines .
It seemed that it would be of interest , in view of the way in which the value of n in the adsorption of Congo red by paper is affected by the presence of electrolytes , to investigate how it is altered in the case of enzyme and substrate when electrolytes are present .
I have shown* that , in the former case , the value of n is increased by the presence of electrolytes , so that the process approaches more nearly to a chemical one , the amount taken up being more nearly the same at different concentrations .
In a chemical reaction with precipitation , of course , n is infinite , since yV* must be unity .
As an example from the case of Congo red and paper , n was found to have the value of 1T5 in the absence of foreign electrolytes and T67 in the presence of 0*002 molar calcium sulphate , or 0*04 molar sodium chloride .
The corresponding experiment with trypsin was performed as follows :\#151 ; Four conductivity vessels were filled with : A. 10-per-cent , ammonium caseinogenate 5 c.c. + H20 5 c.c. + 5-per-cent , trypsin 2 c.c. B. " " + " + 5/ 3-per-cent .
" 2 c.c. C. " " +0*013 m. CaS04 5 c.c. + 5-per-cent .
trypsin 2 c.c. D. " " " + 5/ 3-per-cent .
trypsin 2 c.c. In thermostat at 38 ' C. Conductivity determined at intervals , curves drawn , and values of n , etc. , calculated as in previous experiments .
Table IY gives the data obtained .
* ' Kolloid-Zeits .
, ' 1910 , vol. 8 , p. 4 .
1911 .
] The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
Table IV .
Time required for a change of 1200 recip .
megohms in middle of curve .
1 Time for change of 1800 recip .
megohms reckoned from beginning of action .
A 49 33 B 123 105 c 63 42 D 97 100 It may be seen that the presence of calcium sulphate caused in certain cases or stages of the reaction an increase in the rate of the reaction , sometimes a diminution .
The increase was more marked with the lower concentration of enzyme .
From these figures the value of n comes out\#151 ; Water , from column 1 , T2 , from column 2 , 1-03 , CaS04 " 7 , " 1-3 .
The effect on n is therefore of the same nature as in the case of a simple adsorption , viz. , an increase .
In other words , there is less difference between the activity of different concentrations of enzyme in the presence of calcium sulphate than in the absence of neutral salt .
An investigation of the causes leading to the various numerical values at various stages of the reaction or with various concentrations of enzyme would no doubt throw light on the manner of its action .
The greater effect on the rate of the reaction in the case where the enzyme is present in lower concentration is , I think , what would be expected .
When the enzyme is in excess , the additional amount adsorbed under the influence of calcium ions would probably have comparatively little effect , since it is not unlikely that the amount adsorbed without this influence is already capable of maximum hydrolytic action on the substrate .
In another experiment , in which dialysed trypsin was used , the following values of n were obtained :\#151 ; Beginning of reaction .
Middle of reaction .
End of reaction .
Water 0-94 1 -7 2-48 CaS04 5-7 2-36 1 -81 The action of electrolytes on trypsin is evidently a somewhat complex one , and requires further research .
It is held by some that the well-known fact that the presence of substrate Dr. W. M. Bayliss .
[ Apr. 7 , protects an enzyme from the destructive action of a raised temperature indicates chemical combination between the two bodies .
It seemed therefore , of interest to see whether an indifferent substance like charcoal would also protect enzymes by adsorbing them .
In order to make the conditions equal in comparing the activity of a preparation which had been heated in presence of charcoal with that which had been heated alone , charcoal in the same amount was added to the latter after heating and when caseinogen was added to both .
It is necessary to remember that , as Hedin has suggested* when the adsorption compound of trypsin with charcoal is brought into caseinogen solution , the latter body may remove the enzyme from the charcoal by its greater adsorption " affinity .
" The first experiment , in which the enzyme was heated only to 47 ' for an hour , showed little loss of activity , and to the same extent both with and without charcoal .
Another experiment , in which the solutions were heated to 60 ' for 10 minutes , showed that charcoal had protected the enzyme to a certain degree .
The activity of the enzyme heated in presence of charcoal was such as to cause a change of 1440 recip .
megohms in two and a quarter hours , as against one of 1270 recip .
megohms in the case of the enzyme heated alone .
Simple adsorption , therefore , exercises a protecting influence , and it is unnecessary to postulate chemical combination in order to explain the protective action of substrate or products .
The fact that there is an exponential relation between the concentration of an enzyme and the degree of its activity suggests that some kind of an adsorption process intervenes as a factor in the rate of the reaction .
To obtain an equation for trypsin in which the value of the exponent is constant would be a matter of much difficulty , since the adsorbing surface is continuously changing as the chemical reactions split up the colloidal substrate to amino-acids , etc. Moreover , as recent work by G. C. Schmidtf has shown , the simple adsorption equation given on a previous page applies only to a particular and somewhat narrow range of concentration in various adsorption processes .
In order to include wide differences , a more complex formula is required .
For our purpose , it is sufficient to bear in mind that an apparently linear relationship in the initial part of a reaction , or with very low concentration of adsorbent , does not preclude adsorption .
Again , Denham hasj pointed out| that the results of Frankland ArmstrongS on lactase , in which there seems to be a different law correlating concentration * * * S * ' Biochem. Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 1 , p. 481 .
t ' Zeitsch .
f. physik .
Chem. , ' 1910 , vol. 74 , p. 689 .
J 'Zeitsch .
f. physik .
Chem. , ' 1910 , vol. 72 , p. 690 .
S 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1904 , vol. 73 , p. 508 .
1911 .
] The Properties of Colloidal Systems .
97 and action for large and small concentrations of substrate , are readily explained by the slight effect of sugar on surface tension .
A similar view to that advocated in the preceding pages as to the nature of the combination between enzyme and substrate is described by Freundlich* as applying to the process of tanning leather .
The amount of tannin taken up is conditioned by an adsorption process in the first instance .
This is followed by a chemical reaction in the true sense , which takes place slowly and results in the formation of insoluble bodies .
In the case of enzymes , the chemical reactions subsequent to adsorption are more rapid than in the above process .
The temperature coefficient of enzyme action as a whole is known to be a high one , whereas that of adsorption is , so far as investigated up to the present , a low one .
In the case of Congo red and paper , I have foundf that the rate at which equilibrium is attained is accelerated by rise of temperature , but that the coefficient is only T36 for each 10 degrees between 10 ' and 50 ' C. , thus corresponding closely with that found by BrunnerJ for a diffusion process , viz. , 1*5 .
It seems then that the effect of temperature on the rate of adsorption is merely on the rate of diffusion of the bodies concerned .
In the case of Congo red and paper it is of interest to note that the actual amount adsorbed is diminished by rise of temperature , although the rate at which the smaller amount is taken up is increased .
In the case of enzyme action the chemical change , being the slowest member , is the factor governing the rate of the reaction as a whole , so that the temperature coefficient is the high one of a chemical reaction .
As far as the effect of temperature on the actual amount of the adsorption of enzyme and substrate is concerned , it will be seen that , if this effect is similar to that when Congo red and paper are in question , the velocity of the reaction as a whole , since it depends on the amount of enzyme adsorbed , will be a very complex function of temperature .
Summary .
The existence of an " adsorption-compound " containing acid and base uncombined chemically , and which can be isolated , is described , together with the manner of its conversion into the true chemical compound or salt .
It is shown that a similar kind of compound is formed between an enzyme * * Kapillarchemie , ' Leipzig , 1909 , p. 532 .
+ 'Biochem .
Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 1 , p. 187 .
X ' Zeitsch .
f. phyaik .
Chem. , ' 1904 , vol. 47 , p. 62 .
VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. H 98 Mr. S. J. Meltzer .
On the Distribution and [ Apr. 11 , and its substrate , preliminary to the particular chemical change brought about by the enzyme in question .
Adsorption between enzyme and substrate as affected by the presence of neutral salts is investigated and found to follow the laws of " electrical " adsorption .
The relation between the concentration of an enzyme and its activity is shown to be expressed by an exponential formula , the value of the exponent varying considerably according to circumstances .
In certain conditions it may be unity and in others the square root , but is usually between the two .
Accordingly , the view that the rate of an enzyme action at any given moment is a function of the amount of the adsorption compound of enzyme and substrate in existence at that time is to be regarded as fairly well established .
The expenses of the research were defrayed from a grant by the Government Grant Committee .
On the Distribution and Action of Soluble Substances in Frogs Deprived of their Circulatory Apparatus .
By S. J. Meltzer , New York .
( Communicated by Prof. A. R. Cushny , F.R.S. Received April 11 , \#151 ; Bead May 18 , 1911 .
) ( From the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research .
) In view of the great distributory efficiency of the cardio-vascular apparatus , no serious consideration has been given to the possibility of the existence of other modes of distribution of material in the animal body .
In the following , results of experiments will be briefly presented which give unmistakable evidence of an efficient distribution of substances in cardiectomised frogs .
In these experiments the heart was exposed , ligated , and removed , and the incision closed again .
Such a removal of the heart eliminates also the activity of the lymph vessels and the lymph hearts which empty their contents into veins .
Injections were given into the various lymph sacs of the body and into the abdominal cavity .
The results to be reported were

