422 Dr. J. H. Vincent .
influence of the electrical stress , likewise flew off , and were deposited in the metallic state near the pole .
An experiment was tried to discover if the ions of metal , deposited in this manner on a metal plate connected with an idle pole , in the full stream of + ions and - electrons , showed any special + or -electrification .
In all cases the electrification was positive .
This\lt ; lends support to Mr. Strutt 's view that + ions as well as \#151 ; electrons^ will fly off from a radio-active body .
Even these results , however , must not be taken as conclusive , for in a paper published in 1891 , * I showed that at a high vacuum nearly the whole of the interior of a tube through which an induction spark was passing was electrified positively , negative electrification being detected only in the immediate-neighbourhood of the negative pole .
During the course of my experiments a curious circumstance was observed , which deserves record as it may elucidate ^ome of these-obscure phenomena .
While the volatilisation of the silver pole is rapidly proceeding , the metal glows as if red-hot .
This " red heat " is superficial only .
The metal instantly assumes , or loses , the appearance of red heat the moment the current is turned on or off , showing that the high temperature does not penetrate below the surface .
The-volatilisation of the positive ions is confined to the surface , and the surface glow is connected with that action .
If instead of silver , a good !
conductor of heat , I take diamond , a bad conductor , the surface-layers are changed sufficiently to convert them into a form of graphite , which from its great resistance to oxidising agents , cannot be formed at a lower temperature than 3600 ' C. " The Density and Coefficient of Cubical Expansion of Ice .
" By J. H. Vincent , D.Sc .
, B.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge , ConTmunicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.B.S. Received January 22 , \#151 ; Read February 6 , 1902 .
( Abstract .
) After an account of the methods employed by previous experimenters in the subject , reference is made to the views of Nichols , according to which two distinct kinds of ice have been subjected to experiments .
The density of artificial ice is about 0-916 gramme per cubic centimetre , while that of natural ice is more than one part in a thousand greater .
* " Electricity in Transitu : from Plenum to Vacuum , " 'Journ .
Inst , Elect , Engine .
, ' vol. 20 , p. 10 .
The Density and Coefficient of Cubical Expansion of Ice .
423 Two tables are given showing in the first all the results which have been published concerning the density and coefficient of cubical expansion of ice , and in the second the same results tabulated separately according to the variety of ice used .
The mean result for the density of natural ice at freezing point is 0-9176 , while that of artificial ice is 0-9162 gramme per cubic centimetre .
Only one estimation of the dilatation of natural ice is available .
It is 0-0001125 for the cubical coefficient per degree C. The mean of three available results for artificial ice is 0-000160 .
It was thought desirable to use a method of experiment which would yield a result both for the density and for the coefficient of cubical expansion , and in order that the work should have any value it was necessary to employ some device other than any which had been used previously .
The method consisted in weighing a quantity of water in mercury .
The water was weighed both as liquid at 0 C. , and as solid at set eral temperatures below freezing point .
If we assume values foi the density of water and mercury at 0 ' C. , the density of ice at 0 C. can then be calculated , if we also assume that the densities of ice and mercury are linear functions of the temperature .
The coefficient of cubical expansion of ice can also be calculated from these results , but it will depend on the law assumed for the contraction of mercury , and upon the accuracy of the thermometry .
Instead of using a sinker to keep the vessel containing the water or ice under the surface of the mercury , a modification of Joly s Hydrostatic Balance was employed.* Ten values of the density of ice at different temperatures below 0 ' C. were obtained in this way .
The specimens of water were four in number , and the temperatures ranged from - 10'-02 to - 0 -37 C. The whole of the weighings taken with the final form of apparatus are included in these determinations .
In one experiment the values obtained show unmistakably that the same specimen of water may assume different densities on freezing .
The ten values of the density are set out as functions of the temperature on a chart , and a graphical method is used to extrapolate for fi\e values of the density of 0 ' C. These five values have weights assigned to them proportional to the number of separate determina-sions of the density from which they are derived .
The numbers thus obtained and the weights to be assigned to them are set out in the following table .
Joly , ' Phil. Mag. , ' September , 1888 .
424 The Density and Coefficient of Cubical Expansion office .
Experiment .
Density at O3 C. Weight assigned .
i 0-916335 3 2 0-915460 2 3 0-916180 2 4 f0-915540 1 Weighted mean ... 10-916060 0-9160 2 We thus obtain 0-9160 gramme per cubic centimetre as the density of ice at 0 ' C. Four values for the coefficient of cubical expansion can be obtained from these results .
They are :\#151 ; Experiment .
Coefficient of cubical expansion .
1 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-000155 2 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0-000152 3 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-000153 4 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-000148 Mean ... ... ... ... 0-000152 The results of this investigation are that Nichols ' value for the density of artificial ice is confirmed , but that since the same specimen of water can freeze into specimens of ice having different density , the use of the Bunsen ice calorimeter in absolute determinations must be limited to an accuracy of probably one in a thousand .
The expenses of this research have been in part defrayed by a Government grant from the Royal Society , and in part by the Cavendish Laboratory .
I wish to thank Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. , for his kind encouragement , and my thanks are also due to Mr. E. H. Griffiths , F.R.S. , through whom I was led to undertake the investigation .

