]\gt ; Some ations on the Amount of Luminous and Nonminous Radiation emitted by a Gas Flame By Sir JOHN CONROY , Bart. , M.A. , Bedford Lecturer of Balhol College and ectul .
of rinit ) College , Oxford .
Communicated by A. G. RNON HARCOURT , .D .
, F.R.S. Rcceived November 11 .
Read December 19 , 1889 .
In 1863 Julius Thomsell communicated to the ' ' Naturforscher\ldquo ; at Stockholm an account of some determinations he had made of ' .
The Mechanical Equivalcnt of Light and an abstract of this paper appeared in endorff ' Annalen ' ( vol. 125 , 1865 , p. 348 ) .
He the from a sperm candle , a moderator lamp , and a gas flame , to fall on the face of a thermopile , and noted the deflection of the needle of a uometer i the thermoeIectric circuit , when radiation fell directly on tho pile , and when it did so after passing throogh 20 cm .
of water contained in a glass cell .
In order to reduce the readings to ) solute measure , he placed a glass globe containing hot water in front of the , and observed the deflection of the galvanometer ; the mass of water contained in the globe , the water-equivalent of the globe , the temperature of ] water , and of the room , being all known , from the observed rate of cooling the ( iiation , calculated by 1)ulong 's formula , was determined .
By assuming that the 20 cm .
of water absorbed all , or nearly all , the rays ( i.e. , the non-visible ) , and transmitted nearly all the light rays , the loss of light being found experimentally to be only 13 per cent. , he was able to proportion of light and heat ( i.e. , visible and non-visible ) radiations emitted by the fiames , and to determine the mechanical equivalent of the light .
He found that the ratio of the lumincus to the total radiation was about the same for the candle , the oil lamp , and the gas flame , the amount being nearly 2 per cent. He states " " a flame whose light intensity is equaI to one light unit , that is , one due to the combustion of rams of spermaceti per hour , radiates as light per minute an amount of heat which would raise the tempel.ature of grams of water one degree On this last sentence it must be remarked that a light unit cannot be statement of the mass of a ] consumed , but perhaps the original paper contains qualifications omitted in the Abstract .
llelloni ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 31 , 1850 , p.476 ) states " " Le rayonnement de la flamme d'huile contient 90 parties sir 100 de cette ce de chaleur chaleur , le rayonnement du 56 Sir Jolm Conroy .
On the Amount of Luminous and incandescent en a 98 pour 100 , et celui de la flamme d'alcoo199 pour 100 Tyndall ( ' Phil. 1864 , vol. 28 , p. 335 ; and ' Contributions to Molecular Physics , ' p. 260 ) states that he placed in front of his thermopiIe a rock-saJt cell and observed the deflection of the galvanometer when the radi tion from ( 1 ) an incandescent platinum wire , ( 2 ) the brightest part of a gas flame , ( 3 ) an electric arc lamp , passed through the cell , filled first tvith pure bisulphide of carbon , and then with bisulphide of cftrbon in which iodine had been dissolved ; he found that the percentages of luminous to total radiation from the three sources were\mdash ; Incandescent platinum . .
Bright part of gas flame . . . . . . . . . .
Arc lamp , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
From measurements made by Mr. Merritt and Mr. Nakano ( ' ' Efficiency of Methods of Artificial Illumination by Professor E. Nichols ; The Engineer , ' May , 1889 ) , the efficiency ( i.e. , the ratio of lumltous radiation to total radiation ) of arc and incandesce1lt electric lamps appears to be about 10 and 5 per ceIIt .
respectively .
The experiments of which an account is contained in this paper were commenced with the object of repeating and extending Thomsen 's observations ; soon after they had been begun a notice appeared in ' Nature ' ( July 4 , 1889 ) of a communication made on June 7 , 1889 , to the Physical Society of Berlin , by Dr. R. von Hehnholtz , on the radiation flames , and under these circumstances it seemed deslrabIe to finish the experiments which had been already commenced , but not to go on with the until Dr. vom Helmholtz 's paper should have been published in full .
The experiments were made by allowing the radiation from an Argand gas flame to fall on the face of a therlnopile , either directl or after rough different thicknesses of wate , or of a soIution of alum in water , contained in cells with glass ends .
Instead of keeping the source of heat at a fixed distance from the thermopile , and noting the detlections of the galvanometer which was the method employed by Mellooi and those who have followed him , the distance between the source and the face of the pile was made the , and the distances noted at which equal deflections were produced ; thus the necessity for calibrating the galvanometer was avoided , and also for assuming that the ( corrected ) deflections of the eedle were strictly proportional to the amount of radiant energy lncident upon the face of the pils .
On other hand , it was necessary to assume that the amount of energy which reaohed the thermopile varied inversely as the square Non-luminous Radiation emitted a Gas Flamp .
of the distance from the source , and as the flame and chimney were of considerable size , the position of the not ; it was also necessary to assume that the amount of absorption duc the air , or to the aqueous vapour it contained , was igible , or at least that it could be allowed for .
An thermopile with fifby-four conples a low Nobili 's galvanometer were used .
galvanometer needles , hich were rendered as nearly as possible , were stlspended in the ordi nary by a silk tibre , plane lnir}.or wns to the , and the imtlge of a slit placed in the slide-holder of a Iautern by reflection front the on to a scale placed about 0.8 metre the galvanolneter .
The scale ided 1 half centimetres , and the position of the line of read to 1 mm. estimation .
A deflection of on the of the corresponded to about five divisions on the scale .
In order the ometer should hn.ve a ] fixed zero , it was found neccssal'y to place a weak , a sli netised knittino 1 , at a short distance from it ; this reduced the seubibility of the instrument , but ib was still much senfitive to the feeble ermoelectric currents than a low ( ohm ) Tholnso galvanometer of the ordinary pattern .
The galvanometer coil was nearly to the netic meridian , and the so placed that the were parallel to the axis of the coil .
The thermopile was fixed at the end of a horizontad stand , to divided scale was ched , and was connected by covered the galvanometer , a three-way plug being inserted the circuit .
Both faces of the thermopile , which had been carefully blackoned with ) orslnoke , were exposed ; the radiation the lamp whose light-giving power was to be measured ] on the one , and the radiation from a source of heat , an Argand with a metal chimney .
, on the other .
Tin-plate screens were on eithel side of the pile , and the space between them stuffed with wool , to screen it from air currents and from the radiation of objects , it being impossible to use the reflecting cones with the of measurement employed .
Four cells of wood well soaked in paraffin were used to hold the water and ) solution ; their ends were , closed with pieces of crown glass , cut from the same plate of Messrs. Chance 's cture , which were pressed against the ends of the cells by wooden pressureplates and screws , a washer of vulcanised -rubber interposed between the cell and the glass .
This rangement enabled the same of plates to be used with all four eells .
plates were mm. thick , the cells were 15 cm .
deep , 10 cm .
wide , and 58 Sir John Conroy .
On the Amount of Luminous and 1 cm .
, 5 cm .
, 10 cm .
, and 15 cm .
, long ; each of the washers was about 1 mm. thick , so that the radiations which passed through the cells had to traverse 3 mm. of glass and cm .
, cm .
, cm .
, or cm .
of water in Cells I , II , III , and The doterminations were made by placing one of the cells in front of the thermopile , and about 9 cm .
from it , a screen with a rectangular apertnre , 5 cm .
by 3 cm .
, being fixed at about 2 cm .
from the end.of the cell nearest the pile , in order to prevent any radiations reflected from the surfaces of the water in the cell reaching the pile ; the glass plates were always well cleaned immediately before being used , and the cell filled with freshly filtered distilled water .
An Argand burner , cm .
in diameter , with a glass chimney 4 cm .
in diameter cm .
high , was beyond the cell , a tin-plate screen being lnterposed .
In the experiments recorded in this paper the axis of the burner cm .
from the face of the pile .
The index of the galvanometer was then , if necessary , brought to zero and the circuit closed ; closing the circuit ftlmost always caused the line of light to move in one or other direction .
By adjusting the height of the flame of the burner , which was ariably small , from cm .
to cm .
, and its distance from the thermopile , the line of light was brought back to the zero , or nearly so .
A horlzontal wire was clamped to the stand of the burner whose radiation was to be observed , 10 cm .
above the plate of the burner , and by means of a tap the height of the flame so regulated that its tip just appeared above the wire .
The metal screen was then removed , the amplitude of the first swing of the galvanometer needle , and the screen replaced .
The obcillations of the needle were extremely slo , and , therefore instead of always waiting till it had completely come to rest again , as soon as the oscillations had become small , about half a division of the scale or less , the screen was removsd and another reading made , care being taken to always remove the screen whilst the index was passing the point taken as zero , and in the opposite direction to that in which the deflection dne to the heat would occur .
Iu this way twelve readings were made , and then the cell was removed and the lamp placed at a greater distance from the pile , which was shielded by a tiu-plate screen which could be moved to and fro by strings .
It was usually necessary to readiust the compensating lamp , and when the index had again been brought to zero the screen was removed and the deflection noted .
After a few trials a position was found for the lamp in which the deflection was about the same as that produced by the radiation which had passed through he water ; reading of the deflection was made with the lamp in this position , and Radiation emitted .
59 d10 cm .
along he scale , and another readiug made ; then was move thus ascertained at which the whole radiation distances from the lamp prod.uced a somew a es hat less and a somewhat greater the alvanometer than had been produced by that port on effect upon of { he radiation which had passed throug the olass and water of the cell , with the lamp close to the pile .
The measurements were repeated six times for each position of the lamp ; , cnrve was then plotted with the distances at had been placed when no cell had been erposed between an pile as abscissae , and the mean deflections corresponding to eac to each of these ions as ordinates , and then the bsclssa of a point whose ordinate was equal to the mean deHection when the cell had been intel.posed asoerbained .
This indirect method was adopbed , as it would have been impossible , without making a very large umbcr of measurements , to have ascertained the exact position of the lamp for which the direct radiation produced the same ffect as of it which had passed through the water .
Table I gives one set of readings made in this way with Cell I and the moan of three sets of readings made wltl ] the foul cells , and with the 1 at different stances from the thermopile , the actual readings } ) eing about as concordant as conta in Table I. Table I. Deflection of Galvanometer .
Mean .
With cell 3.7 Lamp at 110 4 .
4 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3.6 4 .
4 .
4 .
4.2 4 .
3 3 .
2 .
Table Mean Deflection of Galvanometer .
Mean .
CellI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3 .
4.0 .
4 .
3.98 Cell II . . . . . . . . . . . .
2 .
2 .
2 .
2.17 1.83 Cell 1.9 1.9 .
4 .
4 .
4 .
4.14 130 . . . . . . . . . . .
160 . . . . . . . . . . .
2 .
2.34 170 . .
2 .
2.06 lso. .
1.8 1.83 190 . . . . . . . . . . .
1 .
1.72 In the case of the first set of measurementS made with Cell I ( those contained in ) the equivalent distance for the lamp is 60 Sir John Conroy .
On the Luminous and clearly at about 120 on the scale , and its value , as deduced in th ' , manner above described , is .
From the face of the thermopile to the zero of bhe scale was 40 cm .
; this had , of course , be added to the scale of the position of the lamp .
The distance of the axis of the lamp from the face of the thermopile , when the cell was interposed , was cm .
; the glass and water of the cell being more refractive than air , interposing the cell virtually reduced the distance *etween t. pile and the lamp .
The rays which traversed the cell differlng in refrangibility , and being incident pon the glass at different angles , the simplest form of the formula ( in which was taken as , and the glass and water treated as if had the same index ) was used for calculating the optical shortenlng of the distance .
The values of for the four cells were mm. , mm. , 2mm .
, and 4 mm. ; these amounts subtracted from cm .
, gave the virtual distances the four cases .
Calling the two distances of the lamp and , the intensity of the tamp I , and the coefficient of transmission then , whence Table III gives the results of measurements made in this way with different cells .
Column 2 gi the of , that is , the scale reading of the position of the lamp without the cell , plus the distance between the zero and the pile ; column 3 the corrected distances with the cell , i.e. , the measured distance less the correction for the refraction of the cell , and column 4 the coefficients of transmlSSlOn .
Table III .
Cell I. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cell Cell III . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
216 225.0 224 . .
K. 0.04157 0.03925 Non-luminous Radiation emitted by a Gas Flame .
Cell 27 .
0 .
It is usually stated that water saturated with alum is more adiatbermanous tl1an pure water .
Melloni found ( ' Annals de Chimie , ' vol. 153 , 1833 , p. 1 ) that 12 per cent. of { he total radi tion of an oil latnp with double all current passed through mm. of a solufion of alnm contained iu a glass cell , whilst 11 per cent. passed through the same tbickness of water , or that the diathermancy of these two liquids in glass ells was the same .
It seems unlikely that 110 other observations should have been made on this point , but a careful search has failed to disclose the record of any .
A solution of ammonia alum , saturated at , was prepared , and some preliminary observations were made with it in the manner already described ; the coefficient of transmission for Cell I appeared to be slightly less , and that for Cell II rhtly greater than when the cells were filled with water , but the differences were so small that it was thought tlJat it would be more satisfactory to fill Cell I altertely with alum solution and with pure water , and note tlJe deflectious of the galvanometer .
Table gives a number of these : twelve were first made with the alum soIution , and then twelve with water , and then twelvs more with the alum , and fiually twelve with water .
Table Deflection of Galvauometer .
Mean .
Cell I. With solution of alum . . . . .
Cell I. wator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3.5 3 .
9 38 31$ 37 The table that with the form of apparalus used fhcre is no meaf , urable difference between the absorptio1l of an alum solutio ] ] contained in a glass cell and that of pure water .
7 ) 62 Sir John Conroy .
On of Luminous and The amount oflight transmitted by the four cells was ermined , the photometric arrangement used being the one described in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' , vol. 180 , 1889 , p. 248 .
It consisted essentially of a small Argand gas burner and of two mirrors , so placed that they reflected the light of the lamp towards each other .
TLe photometer was placed between them , and the ceIl between the photometer and one of mirrors , and six readings made of the position in which there was equality of illumination ; the ] was then placed on the other side of the photometer , and six more readings made of the new position of equality of illuminaiiion ; from these measurements the value of , the coefiicient of transparency , was calculated by the expression ) ) being the distance between the two images of the lamp , and the two positions of the photometer in there was equality of illumination , the optical shortening of the path of the due to its passage through the glass and water being , of coul.se , allowed for .
Table gives these results .
Table The table , that the loss of light increased from per cent. with I to per cent. with Cell ; the loss being due to minous Radiation emitted by reflection at the surfaces of the glass and water , and to obstruction ( i.e. , absorption and scattering ) by the glass , and by water .
Calling and the ratios of the reflected from the surface of the glass and and obstructed by the glass , at the two ends of the cell , to the light incident upon the coefficient transof mission of the water , and thickness of the water , then the intensity of the transmitted beam is given .
the expr.esslon t , where and .
I , , and being known , by can be readily calculated .
Table gives the values of for a thickness of 1 cm .
of water , obtained by combining in pairs the values obtained with bhe fou cells .
Table Values of Mean . .
a former paper Phil. ib showu tl ab the of per millimetre , for the crown and flint glass experimented with , was ) and ; the ansparency of water appears to exceed considerably that of either kind of glass , being per millimetre .
{ he mean valne of the values of , on the assumption that , were obtained by the value of for the different thicknesses of water , and then iritroducing this value iuto the equation , where is the measTtred amount of the centage transmitted by each of the cells .
Table Values of Cell I. . . .
II . . . .
III . . . .
Hence the amount of light reflected at the surfaces of each of the glass plates , and )structed by the glass , would appear to be about per cent. 64 Sir John Conroy .
On Amount of Luminous and The reement between the values of , as deduced from the asurements made with each of the four cells , confirms the general accuracy of the photometric observations .
GIass and water transmit , as is well wn , radiations differin in wave-length with very different degrees of ] ; all the kinds of radiations which affect the eye as light suffer about the same amount of absorption ( i.e. , these media are colout.less ) ; but , as Melon .
showed many years ago , the case is very different when the total radiation from any source of light and heat is considered .
Table VIII gives the percentage amounts of tota ] and visibIe radi tion transmitted by ) four cells , and also the transmission efficients A and for the total and visible radiations , as deduced fromcothe measurements made with each pair of cells .
Table VIII .
The table shows that the percentage amount of .
ibl radiation absorbed by the water increases regularly with the thickness , but that the case of the total radiation each additional centimetre of water absorbs less than those that have prec.eded it , and that the trans ission coefficients for the radiation increase as the thickness reases , whilst those for the visible radiation remain nearl From the of these cients it that a thicku const ant .
3 mm. of glass and 102 mm , of water is not suffi of the inons radiations enlibted by an Argand gas burner .
The clen to arres all transmission coefficients total and visible radiations as deduced from the measuremen made with CeIls and IV are much cluce together than those deduced from the measurements mad uc coser CeIls I and II , and II and III , and this seems to show bhat the ae with amotlnt of radiation which passed through Cell IV was very small , and that , , the per cent. ansmitted consisted almost exclusively of visible adiation , i.e. , photometric lrements show that per cent. of the -luminous Radiation by a tias Flame .
incident light traversed Cell ; hence it would appear , if we assume that neither the air nor the aqueous vapour absorbed a measurable amount of the radiation , that the total radiation of the gas burner 1UO contai11ed \mdash ; or 194 per cent. of luminous radiation , 84.68 result rees with that obtained by Julius As already been stated , the method employed was based on the the amount of absorption due to the air or to the aqueous pour it contained was negligible , or at least that it could allowed for , experiments were made an underground room which the tempersture and the condition of the air varied but htly .
readings of a wet and dry bnlb thermometer uevel .
tered during the course of the experiments more than about F. , the temporature of the air Vttry n from about F. to F. Hence ib was vays n saturated , and the mass of -vapour per utlit volu of air was nearly the same .
ofessor Tyndall ( ' ibutions to Physics , ' p. 133 ) { eet of saturated air ( the perature of air and the nature of the source of radiation , which from the was pparenbly a flame , mentioned ) absorbed .
cent. the total radiation .
If we sum that for very small ( and in the course of these experiments the never excesded ) the deflections of the galvauometer were strictly proportional to the amount of radiant enel.gy incident upon the face of the thermopile , and that the radiation from the lamp suffered no absol.ption before it eached the thermopile , then the ctions of the vanometer would vary inversely with the square of the distance of the lamp .
Table II shows that the mean deflection when the lamp was 150 cm .
hermopi l scale divisions .
The deflections corresponding to other positious of the lamp were calcuJated by the expression , where is the distance of the lamp , and bhe scale reading ; results are set forth in Table IX , column 2 .
If , however , a portion of the radiation from the lamp was by the , or the aqueous vapour it contained , then the decrcase in the deflection as the lamp was moved fut .
there and further off would ) partially due to the increased amount of absorption produced by ) column of air and aqueous vapour .
Taking Tyndall 's value for the absorption per cent. in 4 feet ) , the percentage amount that would be absorbed in passing cm .
, 60 cm .
, 70 cm .
, and 80 cm .
of saturated was calculated , and thence , by the expression given above , the value for the deflec(ion ; being laken as absorption .
VOL. XLVII .
66 Sir John Conroy .
On the Amounf of and These values are contained in Table , column 3 ; they agree more with the observed values contained in column 4 than tbose calculated on the assumption that there was no absorption .
The deflecbions of the galvanometer , however , were so small , and therefore the difference between the two sets of calculated values for the deflections , and the observed values , so slight , that no very definite conclusions can be drawn from them ; they seem , however , to show that so me absorption did take place , and to about the same amount as stated by Professor Tyndall .
Table In the experiments made with Cell , the radiation from the lamp had to traverse about 15 cm .
of air when the celI was interposed between the lamp and the pile , and about 215 cm .
when the cell was removed .
The absorption in the ca.se mllst , according to Professor Tyndall 's experiments , have been insens]ble , and in the latter case have amounted to about per cent. ; asstlming that the absorption is proportional to the lengch of air traversed , an assumption which in all probability is not strictly true .
he total amount of radiation from the lamp , 100 , the exfor under { he given conditions is Thus , allowing for the absorption due to the aqueous ) , and to the the light suffered in passing throug.h the cell , it appears that total from the lamp consisted of per cent. nous and per cent. non-luminous radiation : a somewhat smaller value for percentage of lumiuous radiation than found by Julius msen .
These experiments show:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) That 8 mm. of glass and 10 cm .
of water transmit a -lmninons biou of the 110U-luminous of lrncr , but that when the thickness of the water lncreabed to 10- cm .
the transmilted radiation consists exclusively , or almost , of kinds of tiou affect the eye as light .
with the of apparatus employed ( a thermopile and galvanonteter ) there is no surable difference } the diapure water and of a solution of alum .
( 3 .
) That radiation from an gand g burner consists of about per ceut .
minous and per cent. llon-luminous adiation .
[ Nofe.\mdash ; After tLlis .
had beeIl presented to the I was made a for the first time , by of a } print in the .
nnmber of 'Wiedemann 's Annalen ' ( vol. 38 , 1889 p. 640 ) of a pape ] .
on " " the equivalent of \ldquo ; which O. ladcommullicaled to the Vienlli cadcmy the summer of this yea]. .
He the total the amy-l employed contained per .
of .
He obtained result by ving eithel the ion the , or that poltion of it water , to fall ) { 'ace of a ) , and in the cases the ion S of ) needle of a ueter in the thermoelectric cuit.\mdash ; Deccmber 27 , 1889 .
]

