I. ' " On the Relative Power of Metals and their Alloys to conduct Heat .
" By F. CRACE CALVERT , Esq. , F.C.S. , M.R. Acad. of Turin ; and RICHARD JOHNSON , Esq. , M. Phil. Soc. of Manchester .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) After describing the apparatus employed , and the process followed to determine the conductibility of metals and alloys , the authors give the chemical means by which they purified the metals used in the experiments .
Taking silver , which is the best conductor , as 1000 , they have obtained the relative conducting powers of the following metals : Silver ... ... ... .
1000 Gold , ... ... ... 981 Gold , ... ... 840 Copper , rolled ... ... . .
845 Copper , cast ... ... ... .
811 Mercury ... ... ... ... 677 Aluminium ... ... ... . .
665 Zinc , forged ... ... .
641 Zinc , cast vertically ... .
628 Zinc , cast horizontally. .
608 Cadmium ... .
5 78 Forged iron ... ... . .
436 Tin ... ... ... ... .
422 Steel ... ... ... 397 Platinum ... ... ... .
379 Sodium ... ... ... ... .365 Cast iron ... ... ... 359 Lead ... 287 Antimony , cast horizontally 215 Antimony , cast vertically 192 Bismuth ... ... ... ... .
61 The precision obtained by this process is such , that the authors were able to determine the different conducting powers of the same metal , when rolled or cast , as shown above .
They were also able to appreciate the influence of crystallization on conductibility , for they found that the conducting power of a metal was different when it was cast horizontally or vertically , from the different directions which the axes of crystallization took under these circumstances .
The importance of having the metals as pure as the resources of chemistry allow , is shown by the action which one per cent. of impurity exerts on the conductibility of a metal , in some cases reducing it one-fifth or one-fourth .
Copper alloyed with one per cent. of various metals gave different conducting powers , in the same manner as Mr. Thomson has shown that the conduction of electricity by the same metal is affected by a similar amount of impurities .
Alloying a metal with a non-metallic substance also exerts an influence , as is shown in the case of the combination of iron with carbon , thusForged iron ... ... ... ... .
436 Steel ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
397 Cast iron ... ... ... ... ... ... .
359 Similar results were obtained by combining small proportions of arsenic with copper .
The authors , with a view of ascertaining whether alloys are simple mixtures of metals , or definite compounds , made a large number of alloys of various metals , using equivalent proportions , and determined their conducting powers .
The general result obtained is , that alloys may be classed under the three following heads:1st .
Alloys which conduct heat in ratio with the relative equivalents of the metals composing them .
2nd .
Alloys in which there is an excess of equivalents of the worse conducting metal over the number of equivalents of the better conductor , such as alloys composed of 1Cu and 2Sn ; 1Cu and 3Sn ; ICu and 4Sn , &amp;c. , and which present the curious and unexpected result that they conduct heat as if they did not contain a particle of the better conductor ; the conducting power of such alloys being the same as if the square bar which was used in the experiments were entirely composed of the worse conducting metal .
3rd .
Alloys composed of the same metals as the last class , but in which the number of equivalents of the better conducting metal is greater than the number of equivalents of the worse conductor ; for example , alloys composed of lSn 2Cu ; lSn 3Cu ; ISn 4Cu , &amp;c. ; in this case each alloy has its own arbitrary conducting power , and the conductibility of such an alloy gradually increases and tends towards the conducting power of the better conductor of the two metals composing the alloy .
Experiments were also made with bars composed of various metals soldered together , in order to compare the results obtained with alloys with those afforded by the same metals when mixed .
The first part of the paper concludes with the conducting power of several commercial brass alloys .
The second part , which will shortly be published , will contain the conduction of heat by amalgams .

