]\gt ; February 10 , 1898 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Cha A List of the Presents receiwed was laid on the table , and th1bs ordered for The following Papers were read : I. " " Contributions to the Th of Alternating Currents W. G. RHODES , M.Sc .
( Vict .
) .
Communicated by SCHUSTER , F.R.S. II .
" " The Development and Morphology of the Vascular SysteI Mammals .
I. The Pof ; terior End of the Aorta and Arteries By ALFBED H. YouNG , , ] , and ROBINSON , M.D. Communicated by Sir WILLIAN Tu F.R.S. III .
" " Further Observations upon the Comparative Chemistr .
the Capsules , with Bemarks upon the existence of Suprarenal Medulla in Teleostean \ldquo ; B. MOORE , , Sharpey Scholar , University College , Lon 1 , and SWALE VlNCENT , , British Medical Ass tion Research Scholal ' .
Communicated by Professor SCHAFER , F.R.S. IV .
' The Effects of Extirpation of the Suprarenal Bodies : Eel Anguilla nguilla SWALE British Medical Association Research Scholar .
Comm !
cated by Professor E. A SCHAFER , F.R.S. Contributions to the Theory of Alternating Currents W. G. RHODES , NI .
Sc. ( Vict .
) .
Communicated by ARE SCHUSTER , F.R.S. Received January 4 , \mdash ; Read .
( Abstract .
) This paper is divided into two parts .
Part I deals a of finding the steady values of alternating currents in any thought havin to erform integrations systems circuits , wit ou av ng ential equations which may be somewhat complicated .
It is assumed , however , that the eIectromotive forces and ele Contribntions to the Theory of Alternating Currents .
349 can be represented as simple sine ( or cosine ) nctions of time .
Qhe method consists in applying the fact that if a simple harmonic .
ction is differentiated twice in succession the resulb is proporto the iginal function .
By the application of this principle determination of the steady values of the currents is reduced ving a sct of simnltaneous simple equations .
lftel ' .
the method by some simple , it pplied to the following:\mdash ; The } ermination of the equivalent , react , ance ..1 impcdance I , of a rallel circuit of branches , ) ounl mutual , when each may contain resi city , and self-induction .
result is written I being the equivalent self-illduction , where are certnin ctions of resistances , self-inductions , capacities , and luctio1ls of the several circuits .
( b ) The tion of the currents in the circuits oi an re transformer } one primary coil and secondary coils .
addition to solving the ) , the conditions for resonance in primary circuit are obtained and discussed , and special attention givcn to the case of a transformer having only one secondary coii .
( c ) The abion of the outputs of nators working in rallel on a non-inductive external circnit .
II .
This parb is devoted to the consideration of the effects of igher monics in and currents on the values of the impedances reactances of The prol)lems considered in Part I discussed on sumptiun that upressed potential diffe ence is of the form .
It is also shown that periodic and correspondino o in all be represented by simple sine curves having the sfilne ot lucs , and suitable phase ions d time constants of the circuits and ou the ; present .

