]\gt ; inner surface with that at any point on the axis which is also within the inner surface .
In the expression for the point on the axis we have merely to write for , and intercalate the zonal harmonics in the well-known manner .
We consider the analogous theory when the law is that of the power of the distance instead of that of the inverse square .
In a notation which we find the most convenient for the expression of our results we consider the expansion that when the second suffix of is zero the coefficients are zonal harmonics instead of in the ordinary notation .
These double-suffixed coefficients have been considered by Heine and other not in the present notation or with the present object in view .
In the result we find that the expressions to be interoalated are linear functions of these ] -suffixed coefficients , the coefficients which connect them being derived from potential functions in regard to a point on the axis for different values of Heine , ' Kugelfunctionen , ' Band I , p. 297 .
Contribution to the Theory of The differential equation satisfied by , .
is Integrating this equation with respect to iu the case , we obtain constant .
( 1 ) When is an integer , the left-hand side of ( 1 ) vanishes for : thus the constant in ( 1 ) is zero .
When is fractional , we may suppose subject a to the condition that the constant in ( 1 ) is zero .
Hence , from ( 1 ) obtain where is a constant with respect to .
Considering the expansion of when , we see that , and Now put , .
and substitute in the differential equation satisfied by .
We tind on reduction which is seen to be the same as the equation satisfied by .
Hence since and of the in they can only differ by a 1 numerical factor .
Thus where A is a numerical factor to ) ) determined .
Putting in this equality find that is nnevell both sides ' vanish , but when is evetl .
and on reduction Thence ) and therefore by ( 2 ) we aee that if , theu , for 392 Major P. A. MacMahon and Mr. H. B. C. Darling .
A knowledge of this property is necessary in what follows .
The relation ( 3 ) may be deduced from results already published which have been otherwise obtained by different authors .
1 .
In the application of zonal harmonics to physical questions it is usual to deal in the first instance with surfaces and solids of revolution symmetrical about an axis .
In the theory of attraction according to the law of nature we have in such a case an easy way of finding the potential at any point which is not inside the attracting material when once the potential at any point upon the axis of symmetry is known .
As usually stated:\mdash ; Suppose that an attracting mass , , of uniform density , is a hollow shell whose exterior and interior bounding surfaces are both surfaces of revolution , their common axis being the axis of ; let the origin be taken within the interior bounding surface , and let Ii be the distance from any point of the mass to a point the axis of at a distance from the origin and within the inner surface ; then if we write the potential at the point upon the axis of the potential at another point , not upon the axis but within the inner surface whose polar co-ordinates may be expressed by M2 And there is a similar theorem with regard to points which are without the outer surface .
The problem before us is bhe determination of the analogous result when the potential is of the form where may be arly real numerical magnitude .
The result is found to involve as coefficient of a linear function of the coefficients 2 .
The effect of Laplace 's operator upon the product has been given by other investigators in a different notation .
The formula in the present notation is leading to the particular case 3 .
We lirst require the following Lemma:\mdash ; Contribution to the Theory of The value of the integral may be always expres sed in bhe form where , are independent of and the series 1s carried to or terms For , since all uneven of will disappear on integration , we see that the integral will ) an expression of the nth degree in , the successive powers of being , .
Moreover , this is also the case with the series and the unknown quantities , are just sufficient to determine the equality without ambiguity .
Further , the functions which occur in the series will all be of the form whele , and will therefore all vanish when , except for Hence when the series with the exception 01 the first which is We now write ( 1 ) and putting , we have or where Now applying Laplace 's operator and herein putting , we find that .
Major P. A. MacMahon and Mr. H. B. .
Darling .
Again applying Laplace 's operator we find and generally where we must remember that is an abbreviated notation for an expression in which may be any real number .
Hence putting we see that , ( 2 ) an expression in which may be interchanged .
4 .
Now in the case of solid or surface of revolution , the potential , which we will write , may be expressed respectively in the forms ( 3 ) and where hafI the meaning assigned above ; are the co-ordinates of the fixed point for which is taken ; and is some function of the co-ordinates of a ) oint ( of the solid or surface respectively .
Our remarks will apply to both solid and surface , so that for brevity we restrict ourselves the triple integral above set forth .
First suppose to be less than throughout .
It may be given the form For a poin upon the axis distant- from the , so that , we may suppose this expression equal to that ; bution to the Theory of .395 hence also nd in general Hence by ( 2 ) we see that the expression ( 4 ) for the potential may be written or .
( 5 ) in which the upper limit of is ached when in either unity or zero ; so far as the series does not terminate automatically before this point is reached by the vanishing of 5 .
Next suppose Then ( 3 ) may be written .
( 6 ) For a point upon the axis , where , we suppose this expression equal to and then we have leading to the general relation and therefore by ( 2 ) and the potential becomes \ldquo ; : ( 7 ) Major P. A. MacMahon and Mr. H. B. C. Darling .
in which the upper limit of is governed by the same considerations as the expression ( 5 ) .
6 .
Before formally enunciating the theorem that has been reached it may be verified , in its two cases , by applying to the expressions for the tential .
CASE Since we have ( 8 ) and if ( 5 ) is the correct value of the potential the expression 8 ) may be deduced from ( 5 ) by writing therein for and multiplying the result by .
The value of ( 8 ) , obtained , is 2 , ; : ( 9 ) moreover , since the operation upon ( 5 ) yields This may be written and , writing herein for and for , this is agreei with ( 9 ) .
7 .
CASE 2 Similarly operating with upon 3 ) we obtain ( 8 ) as before ; and if ( 7 ) is the correct expression of the potential the value of ( 8 ) may be deduced from ( 7 ) by writing therein for , and subsequently multiplying by .
Contribution to the Theory of Attraction .
The value of ( 8 ) , thus obtained , is .
( 10 ) moreover since the operation of upon ( 7 ) yields which is agreeing with ( 10 ) .
8 .
The theorem being thus established , we ntay enuuciate it in the following manner:\mdash ; " " THEOREM.\mdash ; The attracting body , of lass and of uniform density , being a shell whose exterior and interior bounding surfaces are surfaces revolution about the axis of ; let the origin ) taken within the interior bounding surface ; let be the distances from any points the body to the points whose co-ordinates are respectively .
Let or the series which is convergent for the point being chosen .
Then the potential at the point is , when the series proceeding by positive powers of is convergent , represented by ; that is to say , it is obtained by substituting in the potential expression for , and for the upper limits of in the series written being reached when is Major P. A. MacMahon and Mr. H. B. C. Darling .
zero or unity , subject to the series not having already terminated by vanishing of Also when the series proceeding by negative powers of is convergent , the potential is represented by ; that is to say , it obtained substituting in the potential expression for , and for the upper limit of determined as in the previous case 9 .
It will be noticed that in the series there is a remarkable correspondence .
If the former be denoted by the latter be denoted by .
In the former series , every has the first suffix 10 .
We propose now to give the detailed results for the case of a ring of attracting matter , of radius and of indefinitely small cross-section .
For a ring of radius the potential at a point on the axis of is and this may be expanded so that the numerical coefficients are functions with zero arguments .
For convenience write Contribution to the Theory of Attraction .
Then if is less than the expanded form is Hence ' and the formula gives for the potential at the point Also if be greater than , the expanded is Hence and the formula gives for the potential at the point , 1 ' , 2 ' , 2 ' , 3 ' It will be noticed that latter is obtainable from the former by interchanging accented and unaccented ctions , and also and It will be clear that in the theory of attraction ove considered the density need not be uniform throughout the mass .
It will suffice if it is a function of , and not of VOL.

