500 The Modes of Division of Spirochseta recurrentis and S. duttoni as observed in the Living Organisms .
By H. B. Fantham , D.Sc .
Bond .
, Christ 's College , Cambridge , Assistant to the Quick Professor of Biology in the University , and Annie Porter , B.Sc. Bond .
, University College , Bondon .
( Communicated by Prof. G. H. F. Nuttall , F.RS .
Received July 26 , 1909 .
) ( From the Quick Laboratory , Cambridge .
) The exact mode of division of Spirochaetes is still a matter of controversy .
Some workers , as Prowazek , and most of the German school of protozoologists , consider that Spirochsetes divide longitudinally , while Novy , Swellengrebel , Baveran and Mesnil , and most French workers consider that they divide transversely .
Unfortunately , the direction of division of Spirochaetes has been made a criterion of their protozoal or bacterial nature .
Too much stress appears , from this point of view , to have been laid on the mode of division in Spirochaetes .
Fantham ( June , 1907 , and January , 1908 ) , in the case of Spirochceta beilbianii and S. anodontce , and Dutton and Todd ( November , 1907 ) , in the case of S. duttoni , state that both longitudinal and transverse divisions occur , while Breinl ( November , 1907 ) figured ( but did not describe in detail ) both modes of division in Sduttoni .
Fantham worked on both living and stained material .
Miss Mackinnon ( 1909 ) , working in the Quick Baboratory , has recently shown that both modes of division occur in S. recurrentis .
We hope to show in this paper , from observations on the living organisms , that both methods of division certainly do occur in Spirochaetes ; also how these processes are brought about , and to put forward suggestions explaining the phenomena .
The subject is one of great difficulty , and the intrinsic difficulty has not been lightened by the methods adopted by various investigators .
Too much reliance has been placed on the examination of fixed and stained preparations of Spirochaetes , to the exclusion of evidence which might have been derived from observation of the living organisms .
It is only recently that the importance of observations of living material in protistology has been recognised , and even now it is not sufficiently appreciated .
During the past year we have observed living S. recurrentis and S. duttoni at various times .
The investigations were conducted at first independently ( those on S. duttoni by A. R , and those on S. recurrentis by H. B. F. ) ; afterwards we worked in collaboration and carefully checked and correlated The Modes of Division of Spirochseta recurrentis , etc. 501 each other 's observations .
As a result , we believe that we have arrived at a solution of the difficult problem of the mode of division of Spirochsetes .
Material and Methods .
The blood of tame mice infected with and recurrentis ( Russian variety ) was used as the source of the Spirocheetes .
The preparations of freshly drawn peripheral blood were transferred at once to the stage of a microscope enclosed in a thermostat kept at blood temperature ( 37 ' C. ) .
In this way the Spirochsetes could be observed for many hours .
At other times , for purposes of comparison , no thermostat was used , and the preparations were examined at room temperature .
Freshly drawn blood from the heart , liver , spleen , and kidneys of infected mice was also examined .
The objectives used were Zeiss ' 2 mm. apochromatic homogeneous immersion , or Zeiss ' -f " achromatic , with compensating ocular 8 .
Careful observations were also made on living Spirochceta in order to determine whether there is a uniformity in the methods of division in the Spirochsetes of mammalian blood , and in the Spirochsetes occurring in the crystalline styles of Lamellibranehs .
Thin portions of infected styles from Anodonta cygnea were examined , the preparations being kept at the temperature of the room .
Other portions of infected styles were allowed to dissolve in water , and preparations were made .
Living specimens of S. anodontce were under observation for as long as 50 hours .
Longitudinal Division .
Longitudinal division of S. duttoni and S. recurrentis is best seen when the blood under examination contains relatively few Spirochsetes .
We have found such to be the case at the onset of the infection .
At this time there are but few Spirochsetes in the blood , and their movements can be followed , though it is at all times a difficult task .
As the number of Spirochsetes during the early stages of infection is few , the danger of confusing longitudinal division with entanglement figures is at a minimum .
This possible source of error has been carefully considered and eliminated .
The Spirochsetes about to divide longitudinally are slightly thicker than the other forms , and are somewhat slower in their movements .
At the onset of division , waves resembling the peristaltic waves seen travelling along the intestine of an insect begin to pass down the body of the Spirocffiete .
These waves were carefully differentiated from the spirals of the body of the parasite .
A split appears at one end of the organism , and two distinct free ends are seen .
The undulations continue to pass down the body , each free part having its waves vibrating in unison with the other .
As the length of VOL. lxxxi.\#151 ; b. 2 o 502 Dr. H. B. Fantham and Miss Annie Porter .
[ July 26 , the free portions gradually increases , they diverge from one another , and their appearance resembles that of the arms of a Y. The divergence continues until , at the actual moment of separation , the two daughter organisms are practically in a straight line , that is , there is an angle of 180 ' between them .
When the two individuals are quite free of one another , they usually remain quiescent for a few seconds , and then move off in different directions .
Both S. duttoni and S. recurrentis divide longitudinally after the manner outlined above .
We have repeatedly seen this occur in life in both these Spirochaetes , and also in S.balbianii and S. anodontce .
The time required for complete division is variable .
The complete longitudinal division of S. recurrentis has taken ten minutes , that of S. duttoni thirteen minutes , but much variation was shown by different specimens .
Transverse Division .
Transverse division of Spiroohaetes of the blood has been definitely stated to occur by various workers , but few of them state precisely what use was made of living and of stained material respectively .
Naturally , therefore , details of the exact processes of transverse division are wanting .
We have made a careful study of the behaviour of living S. , S. recurrentis , and tS .
anodontce during transverse division , and under conditions resembling , as far as possible , those that obtain in the host .
Transverse division occurs in very long , thin individuals , whose movements are somewhat slower than those of other Spirochaetes in their vicinity .
The division is initiated by the appearance of waves passing from each end of the organism towards its centre .
When the waves reach some particular spot at or near the centre that serves as a node , they meet and die out , return waves passing rapidly in the opposite directions towards either end .
A second set of waves then passes from the ends in the direction of the centre ; these meet and die out , and return waves , travelling in opposite directions proceed to each end of the organism .
These processes are repeated many times , the velocity of the waves increasing meanwhile .
As time goes on , the nodal region of the organism becomes thinner , and finally , after several extremely rapid sets of waves in succession , the tenuous centre parts , and two complete short organisms are produced .
The parent organism appears to increase slightly in length during transverse division .
Ihe individuals resulting from the division usually swim away in the ordinary manner .
The time needed for complete transverse division varies with the individual Spirochaete , but we have observed specimens of both S. duttoni 1909 .
] Modes of Division ofSpirochseta recurrentis , .
503 and \amp ; recurrentis that took from fourteen to sixteen minutes for complete transverse division .
The processes of transverse division , as seen in the larger anodontce , exhibit yet further details .
One of us ( H. B. F. ) has already shown that Spirochetes move by ( a ) an undulatory flexion of the body for forward progression , and ( / 3 ) a corkscrew motion of the body as a whole .
It may be of interest to note that in the transverse division of S. anodontce , as observed in the living organism , reversal of the direction of the corkscrew or helicoid motion of the parasite may occur .
In a specimen about to divide transversely , each of the halves vibrating about a node may reverse its direction of torsional movement ; for example , a right-handed spiral may suddenly become a left-handed one and vice versed .
The resultant strain at the node probably aids in the actual transverse division .
General Remarks .
The fact that both longitudinal and transverse division take place explains the occurrence of thick and thin and of long and short forms of the same species of Spirochaete .
Everyone who has worked on Spirochaetes is cognisant of the occurrence of such polymorphism .
Longitudinal division of S. recurrentis and as before mentioned , is best seen when the blood contains relatively few Spirochaetes\#151 ; at the beginning of infection and also at the end .
Breinl ( 1907 ) noted the occurrence of longitudinal division " especially at the time of the disappearance of the parasites from the peripheral circulation .
" Numerous long tenuous Spirochaetes are present in the blood during the height of the infection , and these divide transversely .
While allowing for the reactions of the host upon the parasites , which reactions might induce the different forms of division at different periods , it is also possible that the number of Spirochaetes present in the blood at any given period may have some effect on the direction of their division .
The greater space necessary for longitudinal division occurs at the onset of infection , when the Spirochaetes are few .
As the parasites grow in length and increase in numbers , it would appear easier for transverse division to take place .
We have , then , clearly shown that there is a distinct periodicity in the direction of division exhibited by S. recurrentis and S. duttoni .
Naturally there is a time when both forms of division go on side by side .
The conflicting statements regarding the direction of division of Spirochaetes are thus explained and reconciled .
From the foregoing it is clear that the direction of division of Spirochaetes cannot be used alone as a criterion of their protozoal or bacterial nature .
2 o 2 504 The Modes of Division ofSpirochaeta recurrentis , etc. The Spirochaetes exhibit characteristics of both Protozoa and Bacteria .
The reasons for considering them as Protozoa have been well set forth by ISTuttall ( 1908 ) , while Swellengrebel ( 1907 ) considers them to be Bacteria , belonging to the family Spirillacem .
On the whole , we consider that the protozoal characteristics of Spirochtetes preponderate over their bacterial characteristics .
We have much pleasure in thanking Prof. ISTuttall for the material used in these researches .
Summary .
1 .
The observations recorded in this paper were made on living Spirochaetes .
We have previously examined much fixed and stained material .
It is very necessary to examine living material , as results based only on stained preparations are not always reliable .
2 .
Both longitudinal and transverse division occur in Spirochsetes as seen in S. recurrentis , S. duttoni , S. anodontce , and S. 3 .
Longitudinal division of S. recurrentis and S. duttoni is best seen when there are but few Spirochaetes in the blood .
This is the case at the onset of infection and at its close .
In longitudinal division , rapid waves pass down the body of the Spirochaete .
At one end a split occurs , which gradually widens .
Waves travel down each of the diverging daughter forms , which ultimately lie at an angle of 180 ' with one another .
The daughter Spirocliaetes then separate .
Organisms about to divide longitudinally are slightly stouter than the others .
4 .
Transverse division of S. recurrentis and S. duttoni also occurs .
It is initiated by the appearance of waves passing from both ends towards the centre of the organism ( which centre acts as a node ) .
These waves meet and die out , and return waves pass rapidly from the centre towards each end .
These processes are repeated many times , the frequency of the waves increasing and the nodal region becoming thinner .
Finally , after a succession of very rapid waves , division occurs at the node and two complete daughter organisms result .
5 .
There is a periodicity in the direction of the division of S. recurrentis and S. duttoni .
At the onset of infection , longitudinal division occurs .
This is followed by transverse division of the Spirochetes when the infection is at its height , while , with the diminution in numbers of the parasite as the infection draws to an end , there is a reappearance of longitudinal division .
Naturally , there are times when both forms of division occur together .
Oui observations relating to periodicity were made on peripheral blood of the host .
Origin and Destiny of Cholesterol the Animal Organism .
505 REFERENCES .
BreinI , A. ( XI , 1907 ) , " On the Morphology and Life History of , " 'Ann .
Trop .
Med. and Parasitol .
, ' vol. 1 , pp. 435\#151 ; 438 , 1 pi .
Dutton , J. E. , and Todd , J. L. ( XI , 1907 ) , " A Note on the Morphology of Spirochceta duttoni ' Lancet , ' 1907 ( ii ) , pp. 1523\#151 ; 1525 .
Fantham , H. B. ( VI , 1907 ) , " Spirochceta( Trypano(Certes ) , its Movements , Structure , and Affinities ; and on the Occurrence of Spirochceta anodontce ( Keysselitz ) in the British Mussel , Anodonta cygnea"'Ann .
Mag. Not .
Hist. , ' ser. 7 , vol. 19 , pp. 493\#151 ; 501 ( prelim , communic .
) .
Fantham , H. B. ( 1 , 1908 ) , " Spirochceta ( Trypanosoma ) balbianii ( Certes ) and Spirochceta anodontce ( Keysselitz ) : their Movements , Structure , and Affinities , " ' Quart .
Journ. Microsc .
Sci. , ' vol. 52 , pp. 1\#151 ; 73 , 3 pis .
Mackinnon , D. L. ( 1909 ) , " Observations on the Division of Spirochsetes , " 'Parasitology , ' vol. 2 , pp. 267\#151 ; 280 .
Nuttall , G. H. F. ( VIII , 1908 ) , " Spirochsetosis in Man and Animals " ( Harben Lecture II ) , ' Roy .
Inst. Publ .
Health Journ. , ' pp. 449\#151 ; 464 .
Swellengrebel , N. H. ( VII , 1907 ) , " Sir la Cytologie comparee des Spirochetes et des Spirilles , " ' Ann. Inst. Pasteur , ' vol. 21 , pp. 448\#151 ; 465 , 562\#151 ; 586 , 2 pis .
The Origin and Destiny of Cholesterol in the Animal Organism .
Part VI.\#151 ; The Excretion of Cholesterol hy the Cat. By G. W. Ellis and J. A. Gardner , Lecturer in Physiological Chemistry , University of London .
( Communicated by Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. Received August 14 , 1909 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory , South Kensington , University of London .
) In an earlier paper* of this series the results of a number of estimations of the cholesterol content of the faeces of a dog fed on a variety of diets\#151 ; animal and vegetable\#151 ; were described .
It was shown that the cholesterol found in the case of meat diets could be entirely accounted for by that present in the food , and from a general survey of the whole of the results , the opinion was expressed that the whole of the cholesterol of the bile is not excreted in the faeces , and must therefore have been either totally destroyed or reabsorbed in the gut along with the bile salts .
In the case of a diet of raw brain , it was found that the cholesterol was not excreted as such , but entirely in the form of coprosterol .
This was subsequentlyf found to be the case when cats were fed on either raw or cooked brain .
* 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 80 , 1908 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 81 , 1909 .

