60 Prof. G. Quincke .
Transition from the Liquid to [ June 6 , efforts in its behalf during those early years , beginning with his observations at Paramatta in the year 1839 and continuing long after the inauguration of the New South Wales service under Government auspices in the year 1858 . . . .
The 19-year cycle theory , elaborated by Mr. Russell in more recent years , was advanced by Mr. Clarke in the * Sydney Morning Herald ' of May 1 , 1846."* This reference is of great interest , since it indicates that this 19-year variation was evidently quite a prominent feature of Australian weather before the observations discussed in the present communication were made .
] The Transition from the Liquid to the Solid State and the Foam-Structure of Matter .
By G. Quincke , For .
Mem. R.S. , Professor of Physics in the University of Heidelberg .
( Received June 6 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1906 .
) 1 .
On June 19 , 1905 , I laid before the Royal Society the results of my researches on ice-formation and glacier-grains .
The further prosecution of these researches has shown that phenomena similar to those observed in the freezing of water occur in all bodies in nature , and are in agreement with the structure of metals as observed by myself and also by other investigators , who in some cases have described their results in the ' Philosophical Transactions .
' Solid bodies , then , are never homogeneous , but always exhibit a foam-structure .
2 .
For brevity 's sake I use the word " oily " to describe any liquid that tends to make its surface as small as possible , and exhibits surface tension at the boundary separating it from another liquid .
All liquids in nature resemble water in forming , as they cool , oily foam walls , which may be very thin and invisible .
The shape and position of these foam walls become visible on freezing or thawing in the following ways:\#151 ; ( a ) By fissures or fractures at the surface of the foam walls , whenever the liquid contents of the foam cells contracted on solidification , or when the walls and the contents of the foam cells contracted differently as they cooled .
* 'Monthly Weather Review , ' vol. 33 , No. 11 , November , 1905 , p. 480 .
Washington , U.S.A. , Weather Bureau .
1906 .
] the Solid State and the Foam-Structure of Matter .
61 ( b ) By the bounding surfaces of the doubly refracting crystals ( glacier- grains ) which are differently orientated in neighbouring foam cells .
( c ) On illumination with sunlight or electric light , or on warming , when the doubly refracting contents of the foam cells melt and are transformed into singly refracting liquid .
( d)By lens-shaped masses , foam flakes or air bubbles , suspended in the foam walls .
( e ) By the furrows , or network of lines on the solidified surface formed by the intersection with that surface of the foam walls in the interior of the solidified mass .
( / ) By polishing or etching the natural or artificial surface , in cases when the walls and the contents of the foam cells differ in hardness , or in the rapidity with which they are attacked by chemical reagents .
3 .
Pure benzene , slowly frozen in glass flasks , shows foam walls and fissures ( normal to the glass surface ) inclined to one another at 120 ' .
The totally reflecting planes in the interior bound foam cells ( glacier-grains ) or hexagonal tables , each of which contains a crystal , differently orientated in the different foam cells .
In the case of quickly frozen benzene , the foam walls are often warped or twisted , and the bounding surfaces of the benzene-grains exhibit waves , folds , or furrows , or parallel fibres .
The light from an arc lamp developed in the clear contents of the separate foam cells a row of parallel bands of " dendrites , " or fir-tree formations , the needles of which changed in daylight into tubes with rounded heads and totally reflecting walls , and swelled up .
The tubes formed bulbous enlargements and fell into strings of bubbles , some rounded , and some elongated .
Benzene , slowly frozen in a rectangular glass trough , appeared clear between the white diagonal planes , which had frozen last and contained rounded air bubbles .
Illumination for a few seconds with the arc light developed in the clear benzene fine dividing walls ( normal to the surface ) which bounded hexagonal prisms , 3 mm. wide and 8 mm. long .
Beneath the sides of the prisms the solid benzene surface showed , on illumination , furrows like those of an ice-block exposed to radiation , corresponding in fact to Porel 's bands in glacier ice .
Pressure with a steel point caused the solid block of benzene to cleave along the diagonal planes with a fibrous fracture , the fibres being normal to the surface , just as in an ice-block .
The phenomena presented by benzene and water when freezing and thawing are extraordinarily similar .
The air-filled tubes in the diagonal planes are , in the case of water , thinner and more numerous than in benzene , which contains more spherical air bubbles .
Water is thus more viscous while solidifying than is benzene .
62 Prof. G. Quincke .
Transition from the Liquid to [ June 6 , There is an essential difference between water and benzene in the fact that , on freezing , water expands , whereas benzene contracts .
In the case of benzene , therefore , the walls of the foam cells become visible through the totally reflecting surfaces between the glacier-grains .
4 .
Water , benzene , acetic acid and glycerine , when exposed in the form of clear solid blocks to the electric light , exhibit liquefaction figures of various shapes at the places where , as the cooling proceeded , traces of impurities had separated out at periodic intervals .
These correspond to the liquefaction figures observed by Tyndall in natural ice .
5 .
Bromine , frozen in a test tube and illuminated with the arc light , showed on the surface a network of fine furrows inclined to one another at 120 ' , and in the interior totally reflecting fissures ( normal to the surface ) at the places which had been occupied by invisible layers enclosing hexagonal prisms 2 to 3 mm. long .
6 .
Bed hcematite has a surface like a mass of soap bubbles , and is bounded by spherical surfaces 10 mm. in diameter , in which are distributed small lens-shaped masses , 02 mm. in size .
The spherical surfaces cut at angles of 120 ' , 90 ' , and so on , and are inclined at 120 ' to the cleavage planes that terminate in the lines of intersection of these spherical surfaces .
On these cleavage planes can be distinguished fibres normal to the surface , as in melting ice .
In the outer , quickly solidified layers , the fibres are 006 mm. thick , but in the interior , where the solidification occurred more slowly , they are 0*36 mm. thick , thus resembling the fibrous foam cells in quickly and slowly frozen ice .
7 .
Malachite and chalcedony exhibit forms similar to those of red haematite , save that there are no lens-shaped masses in the spherical surfaces .
8 .
The light-coloured veins that traverse the darker ground mass of marble and sandstone are twisted screw-surfaces , conical tubes swollen out at some places , pinched in at others , and spirally twisted , in the walls of which are distributed hollow lens-shaped spaces and smaller foam cells .
These veins exhibit , therefore , the forms assumed by an oily viscous liquid under the influence of its surface tension .
9 .
Pure molten salts\#151 ; NaCl , KC1 , KBr , KI , iSra2C03 , Na2S04 , Na^O ; \#151 ; when dropped on to platinum foil and allowed to solidify , show , like solidified benzene , many totally reflecting fissures , or plane layers , 0-05 to 025 mm. wide , which are bounded by straight lines or arcs of circles , and are inclined to one another at 120 ' or other angles .
These plane layers , as the cooling proceeded , had contracted differently from the contents of the foam cells enclosed by them .
In the surface of these layers or foam walls there lay lens-shaped masses , O01 to 0'02 mm. in size , arranged singly or in 1906 .
] the Solid State and the Foam-Structure of Matter .
63 two intersecting rows of 8 or 10 each .
Sometimes these intersecting rows have the same orientation in several neighbouring foam walls ( totally-reflecting surfaces ) .
Molten Na2S04 showed zig-zag fissures normal to the surface , and inclined at 120 ' .
In the corners of the zig-zags three oily layers had met .
The thinnest invisible layer had had , it is true , the same surface tension as the two others , but the tension caused by the thermal contraction had been insufficient to produce a fissure .
In freshly melted drops of Na^COs there were foam walls , normal to the surface and inclined at 120 ' to one another , which bounded hexagonal prisms .
At the points of intersection of the edges of the foam walls there lay occasionally , as in the case of thawing ice , a tetrahedron bounded by spherical surfaces .
10 .
The surfaces of solidified drops of pure molten metals\#151 ; such as I used in 1868 and 1897 for measuring the surface tension of these metals\#151 ; show a network of straight lines or arcs of circles ( usually inclined to one another at 120 ' or 90 ' ) , or foam walls with embedded lens-shaped masses .
This is so in the case of gold , silver , platinum , palladium , iridium , indium , copper , zinc , iron , nickel , cobalt , bismuth , sodium , kalium , mercury .
Similar phenomena are to be observed on the surface of solidified drops of sulphur and selenium , or on the surface of carbon which has been distilled with the electric arc in a magnetic field , and deposited on the cathode .
The more quickly a metal has solidified , the smaller are its foam cells .
11 .
On account of the volume changes which occur when metals solidify , the shapes and mutual inclinations of the foam cells are somewhat deformed .
12 .
Ewing and Eosenhain ( 1900 and 1901 ) , and Osmond and Cartaud ( 1901 ) have published fine photographs of the surfaces of metals solidified on glass .
In the case of lead these photographs show metallic grains or hexagonal foam cells with angles of 120 ' , and , near the edge , of 90 ' .
The foam walls are identical in shape and inclination with the 300 times larger foam walls which I saw forming in the median plane of a slowly thawing prism of ice .
Parallel cylindrical tubes , already partially transformed into strings of spheres , can be followed through many neighbouring foam cells , just as in ice .
The tubes and strings had therefore been formed before the walls of the hexagonal foam cells .
Hexagonal foam cells similar to those in lead , together with rounded lens-shaped masses in the middle of the foam cells , are visible in the photographs of the solidified surfaces of tin and zinc .
On the surface of a zinc drop can be recognised radially-arranged straight and twisted fibres , with 64 Prof. G. Quincke .
Transition from the Liquid to [ June 6 , swellings , and foam cells inside , as in a sphero-crystal .
Many of these fibres have already fallen into rows of spheres .
In Ewing and Eosenhain 's photographs of cadmium castings on glass , one recognises a network of straight lines and arcs of circles ( mostly with mutual inclinations of 120 ' ) which bound metallic grains or foam cells 0*02 to 0*07 mm. in size , and have gas bubbles at the boundaries of the foam cells .
The metallic grains easily suffered mutual displacement .
The surfaces at which such displacement or slipping took place were thus the walls or bounding surfaces of the foam cells , precisely as in the case of the glacier-grains of ice .
Molten tin formed smaller foam cells the more quickly it had been cooled .
The metallic grains of cadmium and lead grew larger at temperatures below the melting points of the metals .
In my opinion this enlargement occurred , as with the glacier-grains of ice below 0 ' , by the bursting of some of the foam walls , and the running together of the contents of the foam cells .
Holborn and Henning ( 1902 ) experimented with thin strips of iridium , rhodium , platinum , palladium , gold and silver foil , which they heated nearly to melting point by means of an electric current .
They obtained on both sides of such strips the same network of straight lines and arcs of circles inclined at 120 ' , but often also at other angles .
In the network of lines there are also frequently to be recognised closed circles , 0*02 to 0*1 mm. in diameter , containing rows of very small lensshaped objects or bubbles .
Thin strips of electro-iron were heated in vacuo by Sir W. Eoberts-Austen ( 1896 ) to a temperature of 1500 ' by means of an electric current , and carbonised with diamond , starting from one end .
Osmond 's photograph of this strip shows linear and curved foam walls , 0*001 to 0*005 mm. thick , inclined at 120 ' , and enclosing dark foam cells 0*08 mm. across .
13 .
The shapes of the bounding surfaces of molten metals , and the circular arcs in the network of lines on the surface of metals raised to red or white heat prove , in my opinion , that these bounding surfaces must be regarded , not as they have hitherto been , viz. , as crystalline faces , but as solidified oily foam walls , which , as in the glacier-grains of ice , enclose foam cells with contents differing from the walls .
Just as the glacier-grains of ice run together and enlarge by the bursting of the foam walls , so also larger foam cells with fewer foam walls are formed in metals heated nearly to melting point .
14 .
The electrically heated metal appears softer , because of the lack of the foam walls , whose surface and surface tension increase the rigidity of the metal , as I proved in 1868 .
1906 .
] the Solid State and the Foam-Structure of Matter .
65 15 .
A network of lines or foam walls similar to that on the natural surface of solidified metals comes to light also on artificial surfaces of metal castings when these are polished , or suitably etched by acids or other liquids .
The foam walls are attacked or dissolved either more easily or less easily than the contents of the foam cells .
If the foam walls are not normal to the artificially produced surfaces , then , of course , the mutual inclinations of the lines on these surfaces are different from those of the foam walls .
16 .
Sorby , A. Martens , Osmond and Werth , Osmond and Sir W. Roberts-Austen , Osmond and Cartaud , Th. Andrews , Ewing and Rosenhain , Beilby , Humfrey , E. Heyn , and C. Benedicks have given drawings of these networks of lines and etched figures for iron and steel , gold , platinum and lead .
In general the etched figures of the artificial surface correspond to the network of furrows on the natural surface of the same metal .
Figures of sections parallel and perpendicular to natural cleavage planes of the crystals of spiegeleisen , given by A. Martens , show parallel tubes , which lie parallel to the cleavage plane and fall into separate drops .
Often there are visible two intersecting systems of parallel tubes ( which show bulgings , or are resolved into strings of drops ) , or " fir-trees " with branches normal to the main trunk .
These branches show several bulgings and rounded heads , occasionally having in their interior spheres lying side by side , transverse walls and foam masses .
At times the branches of the " fir-trees " also fall into separate spheres .
There are also cracks 0'04 mm. wide , normal to which lie numerous parallel layers or fibres , as in ice .
This structure has since been named perlite .
Breakage surfaces , and ground and etched surfaces of Bessemer steel exhibit , in the figures given by Martens and by Osmond and Werth , straight and twisted fibres normal to the surface .
Steel gives breakage surfaces showing folds , and wave-like and zig-zag markings .
On the crystal faces of spiegeleisen there lie dendrites .
Heyn has photographed etched surfaces of slowly cooled iron containing varying amounts of carbon .
Iron with 0*05 per cent , of carbon shows fine circular foam walls of carbide of iron , FesC ( cementite ) , which enclose foam cells 004 to 0*1 mm. in diameter , filled with iron ( ferrite ) , and meet at angles of 120 ' , 90 ' and so on .
In the partly invisible foam walls are suspended islets of perlite .
In the case of iron containing more carbon , the carbide of iron separated periodically in parallel layers , or as parallel cylindrical tubes with bulgings and rounded heads , or as spherical foam walls enclosing " foam lenses " and foam cells , 0-001 to ( V003 mm. in diameter .
The tubes , lenses and foam cells are filled with iron , and surrounded by iron .
The greater the percentage of carbon , and the more quickly the molten iron is VOL. lxxviii.\#151 ; A. F I 66 Prof. G. Quincke .
Transition from the Liquid to [ June 6 , cooled , the less is the distance of the layers from one another and the smaller are the foam cells , just as in the case of ice containing any salt .
The shapes of the microscopic structures in solidified iron containing carbon are the same as in ice containing salt .
The carbide of iron corresponds to the oily salt solution in freezing water .
Other foreign substances in iron\#151 ; carbon in the form of graphite and temper-carbon , silicon , phosphorus , sulphur , air or other gases , and other metals such as manganese and nickel\#151 ; even if present only in small quantities are able ( like the traces of salts in ice ) considerably to modify the surface tension , melting point , and viscosity of the foam walls and of the contents of the foam cells , and the size and shape of the foam cells or glacier grains of the iron .
In quickly cooled steel the etched surfaces figured by C. Benedicks show fissures on the circumference of spirally twisted conical tubes .
17 .
Pure molten metals after solidification exhibit on artificial polished and etched surfaces a network of lines or foam cells ( similar to the glacier-grains of ice ) , which are bounded by thin foam walls .
These thin foam walls themselves contain still smaller foam cells , as is proved by the visible lensshaped masses embedded in them , and the wave-like furrows on their surface , which are capable in reflected light of giving diffraction colours like mother-of-pearl .
This foam structure of pure metals when solidified after fusion has been demonstrated in the case of:\#151 ; 18 .
Molten metals solidify on cooling to a liquid jelly , and later to a solid jelly .
The walls and contents of the foam cells of such a jelly still consist of viscous liquid , i.e. , the jelly itself is still liquid\#151 ; like ice\#151 ; at temperatures lower than the melting points of the respective metals .
The welding of two pieces of metal corresponds to the running together of the cell walls and cell contents of two lumps of jelly , or the regelation of ice .
19 .
All the other substances in nature behave like these metals .
The soft , plastic condition , which all bodies assume for a larger or smaller interval of temperature on the transition from the solid to the liquid state , Bismuth Cadmium Cobalt Copper Iridium Lead Manganese Mercury Nickel Palladium Platinum Potassium Rhodium Sodium Tin Zinc Gold Iron Indium 1906 .
] the Solid State and the Foam-Structure of Matter .
67 proves the presence of jelly , i.e. , of oily , visible or invisible foam walls , over this interval of temperature .
20 .
Presumably all liquids on cooling form , before they pass into soft jelly with continuous oily foam walls , a turbid solution containing visible and invisible spheres , bubbles and foam flakes of oily , half-solidified substance , suspended side by side .
21 .
The heterogeneous oily liquid , which as solidification occurs becomes visible in all substances in nature in the form of thin foam walls of different surface tension , must also appear as a thin liquid skin on the surface of solidifying drops .
This explains the variations in the measurements of the surface tension of molten metals and salts , and of liquids in general .
22 .
The walls and contents of the foam cells consist of heterogeneous substance .
That foreign matter in very small quantities\#151 ; 1 / 1000000 per cent , and even less\#151 ; does form oily layers and foam walls in pure liquids , is proved by my observations on ice and benzene .
Traces of foreign matter ( gases , carbon , metals , etc. ) too small to be shown in any other way are present even in the purest liquids , and are sufficient to explain the observed foam structure of all solidified substances in nature .
23 .
As however in every liquid , even the purest , the number of the foam cells increases and their size diminishes as the velocity of cooling and solidification increases , it is in my opinion necessary to assume that , even in perfectly pure liquids , oily heterogeneous liquid can separate out on cooling .
Every liquid , before it solidifies , becomes for a longer or shorter time a turbid solution .
A liquid does not possess constant and unchangeable properties at the same temperature and pressure .
All liquids in nature form allotropic modifications , such as have long been known in the case of sulphur , phosphorus , iron , etc. Such an allotropic modification is formed in larger quantity , the more quickly the liquid is cooled , and exhibits surface tension at the common boundary with the original liquid .

