390 Sir Richard Owen .
On Echidna Ramsayi ( Ow .
) .
[ June lfl preservation to enable him to illustrate almost every detail of thei structure .
They not only support his previous conclusions , but they supply irresistible evidence that those conclusions are correct ones .
Fortunately , at least three of the Strobili have attached to them the ends of the twigs which supported them ; these peduncles are indisputably Calamites of the type to which Goppert assigned the generic name of Arthropitus , which genus several of the French Palaeontologists have long insisted upon classing with the Gymno-spermous plants .
The fruit is beyond question that of a true spore-bearing Cryptogam ; a fact which determines the Equisetiform affinities of the entire Calamitean group ; since if any members of that group might possibly have been regarded as Gymnosperms , it certainly was those of the Arthropitean type .
But of all such possibilities there is now an end .
XIV .
" On Fossil Remains of Echidna Ramsayi ( Ow .
) .
Part II .
" By Sir Richakd Owen , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received May 20 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) Since the transmission of the evidence of the large extinct species of Echidna , the subject of the paper ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1884 , p. 273 , Plate 14 ) , the discoverer of the specimen , Ed. P. Ramsay , Esq. , F.L.S. , has prosecuted his researches in the " Wellington bone and breccia caves , New South Wales , " and has added to the mutilated subject of that paper an entire humerus , a large portion of the sknll , the atlas vertebra , a tibia , and fragmentary evidences of other parts of the same skeleton\#151 ; adding to the knowledge of a former existence in Australia of Echidna Ramsayi .
The edentulous condition , proportions , and conformation of the jaws , together with other characteristic modifications of this mono-trematous genus , are repeated on the same magnified scale as in the mutilated arm-bone previously described and figured .
The predatory subject of the paper on Thylacoleo carnifex ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1887 ) was discovered in the same cave , and exemplifies the leonine marsupial which contributed to the extinction of the larger phytophagous and monotrematous Mammals of the Australian Continent .

