Mr. J. Hopkinson .
[ Feb. 14 , Observations , \amp ; c. ( continued ) . . .
Observations faites au Cap Thordsen , Spitzberg .
Tome II , Faso .
2-4 .
4to .
Stockholm 1887 .
The Meteorological Office , London .
Kiel -.\#151 ; Commission sir Untersnchung der Deutschen Mere .
Ergebnisse der Beobachtnngsstationen .
Jabrg .
1887 .
Heft 7\#151 ; 9 .
Obi .
4to .
Berlin 1888 .
The Commission .
London:\#151 ; Navy Medical Department .
Statistical Report .
1887 .
8vo .
London 1888 .
The Department .
Stationery Office .
Voyage of H.M.S. Challenger .
Report .
Zoology .
Vol. XXIX .
Text and Plates .
3 vols .
4to .
London 1888 .
The 0ffice-Lvme RegisRousdon Observatory .
Observations .
4to .
[ Sheet .
] 1880 Mr. C. E. Peek .
Manchester:\#151 ; Public Free Libraries .
Annual Report .
1887-88 .
8vo .
Manchester .
The Committee .
February 14 , 1889 .
Professor G. Gr .
STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Magnetisation of Iron at High Temperatures .
" ( Preliminary Notice .
) By J. Hopkinson , F.R.S. Received January 30 , 1889 .
I have recently been making some determinations of the curves of magnetisation of iron at varying temperatures up to that at which the iron ceases to be magnetic .
Although the experiments are still progressing , some of the results are of sufficient interest to be worth publishing briefly at once .
The method of experiment was identical with that which I for a sample of nickel about a year ago .
The temperatures are es i mated by the resistance of a copper secondary coil , and as there may be some uncertainty as to what temperatures the several resistances correspond with , I give in the curves which follow the resistanc observed as well as the temperature estimated .
1889 .
] Magnetisation of Iron a Temperatures .
Curve I shows the relation of induction to magnetising force at the ordinary temperature , the resistance of the secondary coil being 0'692 ohm .
The curve is given to two scales , the scale of induction being the same in each , whilst the scale of magnetising force is magnified twenty-fold in the one as compared with the other .
Curve II shows the same relation for a temperature of 697 ' C. to 700 ' C. Curve III shows the same thing for a temperature between 727 ' C. and 720 ' C. 320 Magnetisation of Iron at High Temperatures .
[ Feb. 14 ?
These curves illustrate what has been long known , that rise of tern , perature causes increase of induction if the magnetising force is small , but diminution of induction if the force is great .
In Curve IV the abscissae are temperatures , the ordinates are the ratios of induction to magnetising force or permeabilities for a force of 4'0 , and of 0'3 C.Gr .
S. units , the data being supplied from the preceding and other curves .
The latter curve brings out a most remarkable feature .
' For this force the permeability increases somewhat steadily to a temperature of about 640 ' C. , its rate of increase then rapidly accelerates , till it attains a maximum of 11,000 at a temperature of 727 ' C. ; at 737 ' C. the permeability is practically unity , or the magnetisability of the material has entirely disappeared .
Regarding the iron as made up of magnetic molecules the axes of which are directed to parallelism by magnetic forces , the results are expressed by saying that the magnetic moment of the molecule diminishes with rise of temperature , at first slowly , but very rapidly as the point is approached at which magnetism disappears ; on the other hand , the facility with which the particles are directed continually increases , at first slowly , but at high temperatures very rapidly .
The effect is that at a temperature of 720 ' 0 .
an exceedingly small force is competent to turn the axes of nearly all the molecules in a direction parallel to the magnetising force .
The estimates of temperature given herein must be accepted as provisional , and subject to revision .
The actual temperatures are undoubtedly materially higher , as I have not yet taken into account the part of the secondary wire outside the furnace .
1889.1 On Salts of a Base containing Chromium and Urea .
321 Ilf an iron ring which , has never been magnetised has its curve of magnetisation determined for an ascending series of forces , if it bo then thoroughly demagnetised by a succession of reversed currents of descending intensity , and the curve of magnetisation is redetermined , I find that the two curves differ materially .
The demagnetising currents do not reduce the iron to its virgin state .
For small forces the second curve is below the first , indicating less induction for the same magnetising force ; for medium forces the second curve is above the first , whilst for large forces the two curves agree .
If a ring be heated with a current through the primary coil and the heating bo continued till the ring has ceased to be magnetic , if then the current be stopped and the ring be allowed to cool , I find that the ring is not entirely demagnetised by the heating , but that it recollects its state of magnetisation before heating .
It would seem that the magnetic molecules of the iron , having been directed by the magnetising force whilst they were magnetic , retain in part their direction when they have ceased to be magnetic by heating , find- tMt when they again become magnetic by cooling its effect is apparent .
February 14 , 1889 .
] I have tested a sample of manganese steel , and find that at no temperature above the normal temperature does it become substantially magnetic .
II .
" On a Series of Salts of a Base containing Chromium and Urea.\#151 ; No. 2 .
" By W. J. Sell , M.A. , F.I.C. With Crystallographic Determinations by Professor W. J. Lewis , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Gr .
D. LlVElNG , F.R.S. Received February 1 , 1889 .
In a former paper ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 33 , 1882 ) a number of salts were described derived from a base formed by a combination of chromium with urea .
It was stated that the chief product of the .
regulated action of chromyl dichloride on dry urea , and subsequent treatment with water , is a green crystalline powder , insoluble in alcohol , ether , or chloroform .
The compound thus obtained contains chlorine as an essential component , while , as noted , the product of crystallisation from hot water is the pure dichromate of the base .
At the date of the previous publication the nature of this green salt , as a preliminary to the study of the reaction by which it is produced , was ^uder investigation .
The present paper deals with these subjects , and describes a number of additional salts of the base .
The failure in the attempt to purify , the green salt by crystallisa-'n from water , added to its insolubility in all other available neutral

