458 Mr. V. H. Veley .
The Conditions of Chemical [ Nov. 27 Three of the Belgian hare young unfortunately died during the months of September and October , from some undetermined cause ( alimentary F ) ; one of the Belgian hare young\#151 ; a doe\#151 ; and the two Angoras\#151 ; both bucks\#151 ; -survive , and appear fairly strong and hearty .
At the date on which I am writing , 7th November , 1890 , the surviving young ones are twenty-three weeks old , having been born on the 29th May , 1890 .
All the young at the time of their birth suffered more or less from some skin disease , which , however , disappeared under treatment , and one of the Angora young , who suffered the most from the skin disease , has been remarkably scantily supplied with hair , but this defect is becoming less and less obvious .
Both the Angora young when born were bigger and stronger than any of the other young , and they have all along retained their supremacy in this direction .
I can see no sign in the Angora young of any Belgian hare strain , and the Belgian hare young have not shown any likeness to their foster-brothers .
The surviving Belgian hare inherits a white left fore-foot from her father , and one of those which died was similarly marked .
The peculiarities of the Angora young have been already noted .
The experiment described above was undertaken to determine in the first place what effect , if any , a uterine foster-mother would have upon her foster-children , and whether or not the presence and development of foreign ova in the uterus of a mother would affect the offspring of that mother born at the same time .
So far as this single case goes , the evidence is negative .
Before long , I propose to continue my experiments and to extend them .
In concluding this note , I would record my great indebtedness to Mr. Samuel Buckley , M.D. ( Lond. ) , E.R.C.S. ( Eng. ) , of Manchester , who has most kindly given me his valuable assistance in the necessary operative portion of the experiment .
IV .
" The Conditions of Chemical Change between Nitric Acid and certain Metals .
" By V. H. Veley , M.A. , the University Museum , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor Odang , F.H.S. .Received October 23 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) .
This paper is in continuation of a preliminary communication on the same subject ; the main points contained in it are as follows : I. The metals copper , mercury , and bismuth do not dissolve 'u I 1890.1 Change between Nitric Acid and certain Metals .
459 | nitric acid of about 30 per cent , concentration ( the acid commonly I employed for the preparation of nitric oxide gas ) and heated to a temperature of 30 ' C. , provided that nitrous acid is neither present initially nor formed subsequently .
To prevent this , it is nocessary in the cases of copper and bismuth to add a small quantity of some oxidising substance , such as hydrogen peroxide or potassium chlorate , or , as less efficacious , potassium permanganate , or to pass a current of air or , lastly , such a substance as urea , which destroys the nitrous I acid by its interaction .
II .
If the conditions are such that these metals dissolve , then the amount of metal dissolved and the amount of nitrous acid present are concomitant variables , provided that the nitric acid is in considerable excess .
Change of conditions , such as concentration of acid and variation of tomperature , which increase the former increase also the latter .
III .
If the conditions are such that these metals dissolve , it would appear that the metallic nitrite is at first formed , together with nitric oxide ; the former is decomposed by the excess of nitric acid to liberate nitrous acid , while the latter reduces the nitric acid to form a further quantity of nitrous acid .
Eventually the net result is the product of two reverse chemical changes represented by the equations\#151 ; ( i. ) 2N0 + HN03 + H20 = 3HN02 , ( ii .
) 3HN02 = 2N0 4- HN03 4- H20 .
The nitrous acid is thus destroyed as fast as it is generated .
TV .
If the conditions are such that metals dissolve in nitric acid , then nitrous acid is invariably the initial product of reduction .
V. The metals copper , mercury , and bismuth dissolve very readily in a 1 per cent , solution of nitrous acid ; under these conditions nitric arid present in slight excess interferes with , rather than promotes , the chemical change .
This result is probably due to the greater stability of nitrous acid in the presence of nitric acid .
VI .
Hydrogen gas reduces nitric to nitrous acid in presence of cupric or lead nitrate ; it also converts mercuric into mercurous nitrate , but does not produce any change in solutions of bismuth and aiue nitrates dissolved in nitric acid .

