42 Dr. A. Ransom on Forced Breathing .
[ Dec. 18 , III .
" On the Male , and the Structure , of By R. von Willemoes-Suhm , Ph. D. , H.M.S. Challenger Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received October 24 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) This is an addition to the paper on Thaumops pellucida by the same author ( Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xxi .
p. 206 ) , containing an account of the male , and some corrections of the description formerly given .
The species appears to be widely distributed , and to live at moderate depths , coming to the surface at night .
IV .
" On the Bending of the Ribs in Forced Breathing " By Arthur Ransom , M.D. Communicated by Dr. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 15,1873 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper " On the Mechanical Conditions of the Respiratory Movements , " read before the Royal Society in November 1872* , the author endeavoured to show that there is a distinct difference in the chord lengths of a sternal rib in the two positions of full inspiration and forced expiration , and that a certain degree of bending of the ribs usually takes place in forced breathing .
The measurements on which these conclusions were based were made with a 3-plane stethometer , the performance of which was not sufficiently accurate to satisfy the author , who has accordingly repeated them by the aid of a new instrument , the construction and use of which are described at length in the present communication .
The author considers that the new instrument gives fairly accurate results , which fully corroborate the conclusions pre-viosly enunciated .
December 18 , 1873 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Pursuant to notice given at the last Meeting , the President proposed , and Professor Henry John Stephen Smith seconded , the Right Hon. Edward .Cardwell , M.P. , Secretary of State for War , for election and immediate ballot . .
- .
The ballot having been taken , Mr. Cardwell was declared duly elected .
The Presents received were laid on the Table , and thanks ordered for them .
* Proceedings of the Royal Society , November 22 , 1872 .

