[ 661 ] XV .
The Pigments of the Pieridce : a Contribution to the Study of Excretory Substances which Function in Ornament .
By F. Gowland Hopkins , M.B. , B.Sc. , Demonstrator of Physiology , and formerly Gull Research Student at Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , Received October 5 , \#151 ; Read November 15 , 1894 , \#151 ; Revised July , 1895 .
Various observations have been made during recent years , which show that a close association may obtain between pigments which function in ornament and substances of excretory nature.* Leydio+ has shown that , in snakes , certain white and yellowish patches owe their colour to what he considers to be a combination of guanin with a proteid base .
In the skin of Chrysochloris he has indicated the probable presence of urates , and has found " guanin-haltiges pigment " in the iris of vertebrates .
He has further demonstrated the presence of excretory products in the epidermis of Syrphus , Ascellus , and of certain slugs .
Eisig| has described the association of pigment with excretory substances in the Capitellidae .
Finally , Cunningham and MacMunn have extended the original observation of BarreswilS and Voit , || who demonstrated the presence of guanin in the scales of fishes , and have fully dealt with the interesting association of this substance with lipochromes and melanins in the same situation.lF In 1889 , I myself showed that the pigment contained in the wings of the yellow Pieridte was a derivative of uric acid , and suggested that it was related to the substance known as mycomelic acid.*'1 ' ' A , B. Griffithstt has since stated that a green pigment found by him in various species of Lepidoptera is also a uric acid derivative .
In the present paper I hope to show more fully that in the Pieridae the * References to the literature bearing on the subject will be found in the two following papers:\#151 ; H. E. Durham , " On Wandering Cells in Echinoderms " ( ' Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Sc. , ' new series , vol. 33 , p. 118 ) ; List , J. H. , " Ueber die Herkunft des Pigments in d. Oberhaut " ( ' Biol. Centralb .
, ' heft 1 , 1890 ) .
t " Die Pigmente der Hautdecke und der Iris " ( 'Verhandl .
d. Phys. Med. Gesellsch .
Wurzburg , ' bd .
22,1888 ) .
X \#171 ; Fauna u. Flora d. Golfes v. Neapel .
, ' vol. 1G , 1887 .
5 ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 53 , p. 246 , 1861 .
|| ' Zeitsch .
f. Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 15 .
% ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 184 , Pt. II .
, p. 765 , 1893 .
** 'Proc .
Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 5 , p. 117 , 1889 .
t ' Comptes Rendns , ' 115 , p. 958 , 1892 ; vide , however , foot-note on p. 680 .
L 25.11.95 662 MR. F. Gr .
HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE P1ERIM .
normal excretory products of the insects are , throughout the group , made to subserve the purposes of ornament .
The artificial production of the yellow and most important pigment will be discussed , and my original suggestion that it would be found related to mycomelic acid confirmed\#151 ; to the extent that a proof will be given of its presence in the product described by Hlasiwetz under that name .
I. The Coloration of the Pieridee .
The Pieridfe form a large and important group of butterflies , of wide distribution , and of various habit and food plant .
The typical colour-scheme of the group is built up of white , yellow , and black ; the ground work of the wings being white or yellow , wfith lines , bars , spots , or mottlings of black .
The black is absent in many genera , and the yellow may intensify through orange to red , though the latter colour is of comparative rarity .
True blues and greens are practically absent .
An important point to note is the easy interchange-ability between white and yellow or orange , as showrn by the colouring of closely-allied species , by that of the different sexes of the same species , and even in variations of individuals of the same sex and species .
The colours are due to the following causes :\#151 ; 1 .
Purely optical effects , due to the minute structure and arrangement of the scales .
These are of less importance in the Pieridae than in some other groups of butterflies , and chiefly serve to modify co-existing pigmentary effects .
2 .
Pigments found in the scales .
These may be grouped in three classes\#151 ; a white pigment , pigments varying from pale yellow to orange or red , and black or melanic pigments .
They are related to the scale in two different ways .
( a. ) They may be so intimately united with the chitin of the scale that they dissolve with great difficulty , or not at all , in solvents which do not act upon the chitin .
This condition could seem to be characteristic of most of the melanic and darker pigments .
( h. ) They are found , in isolated masses , between the two layers of chitin of which the scale is made up .
This arrangement is especially characteristic of the brighter coloured pigments .
In the Pieridae when the yellow pigment is extracted with hot water , as described below , the scales swell up by osmosis , the substance exudes through their walls , and , on drying , the scales return to their original shape in a colourless transparent condition .
The difference between ( a ) and ( 6 ) can be frequently observed microscopically .
^ in , say , Colias edusa , a scale from the black border of the wing be compared with one from the yellow region , it will be seen that the former , though darker , is moie uniformly transparent than the latter .
In the yellow scale the striation is more or less obscured by irregularly distributed pigment , and only when this has been extracted f MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE FIERIMJ .
663 are the striae as clear as in the melanic scale , the chitin of which seems merely-stained with its pigment .
3 .
Pigments existing , not in the scales , but between the two chitinous laminae , of which the wing itself is composed .
These , I believe , have never been described before .
in the adult wing.* They are found in the Pieridae , sometimes merely modifying somewhat the ground colour of the wing ( vide infra ) ; but , at least in one genus , showing through the transparent chitin of the wing and also through a covering of colourless scales to function as the actual colouring matter of the wing .
They have probably a morphological significance different from the scale pigments .
This question will be further discussed in a later section .
II .
The White " Pigment " It has been frequently stated that white animal pigments do not exist .
It is certain , however , that the scales of many white Lepidoptera contain substances which give opacity and " body " to the more transparent wrhiteness which the chitinous structures otherwise possess .
Whether these are to be dignified with the name of pigments is perhaps a matter of words .
The wing of the common Cabbage Butterfly , for instance , when the scale contents are extracted , loses its characteristic opaque , chalky-white colour , and shows rather the appearance common to translucent structures containing air .
In this and in other white Pieridse the substance which lends this opaque character to the chitinous scale is , I shall show , none other than uric acid .
If the wings of the common English Cabbage Butterfly or " Garden White " ( Pierishrassicce ) be carefully removed from the body of the insect , and then extracted with dilute alkaline solutions , the extract , after filtration , will yield , on acidification , a copious white precipitate .
This , after filtering and washing , will be found to give a characteristic murexide reaction .
The same result may be obtained , though , of course , with more trouble , by extracting the scales after removing them from the wing membranes .
The precipitate thus obtained will be more or less amorphous .
It contains impurities which appear to interfere with crystallization .
To obtain a pure product , the following process may be adopted : The wings are first extracted with alcohol in the cold , and afterwards allowed to stand in cold water .
The latter removes a green pigment , which is one of the class I have described above as existing between the membranes of the wing and not in the scales .
It is present in very small quantity , but yields to cold water a bright chlorophyll-green solution .
It will be further referred to below .
The wings are now extracted once with boiling water to remove * Dr. XJrech has described a green pigment which , he extracted from the unexpanded pupal wing of Brassicce , ' Zool. Anzeig .
, * 15 , 1892 , p. 281\#151 ; 3 .
This is , doubtless , the green substance referred to in Section vi .
f\gt ; 64 ME .
F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PIERID^\#174 ; .
the small quantity of the yellow pigment which is found on the under surface of the wings of Pieris brassicce ( and in so many other of the white Pierids ) .
They are then boiled with dilute aqueous ammonia , or weak solutions of sodium carbonate , and the extract filtered .
The alkaline extract will be always more or less coloured , in part , I think , by a pigment extracted from the black patches of the wings , but chiefly from the action of the alkali on some chromogenic substance present in the white scales .
On acidification , a heavy precipitate comes down .
The precipitate is pigmented , however , and must be further purified before characteristic crystals or accurate analytical results can be obtained .
For this purpose it is dissolved in carbonate of sodium solution and boiled with a minimal quantity of purified animal charcoal .
The colourless solution obtained after filtering off the charcoal will now yield , on acidification , a precipitate consisting of white microscopic rhombic crystals .
The pure substance thus obtained gives a fine murexide reaction .
It is soluble in strong sulphuric acid without decomposition , being re-precipitated on dilution .
If dissolved in ammonia , it is fully precipitated on saturation with crystals of ammonium chloride , exactly as I have shown to be the case with uric acid.# Something like a milligramme of the fully purified product can be obtained from each insect .
The amount of uric acid present is about the same as that of the yellow pigment in a coloured wing of equal size .
The smallness of the quantity will not seem surprising when it is stated that the whole of the scales ( chitin and contents ) on the wings of a medium-sized Pierid weigh less than 4 milligms .
The desiccated insect itself weighs but some 60 milligms .
It is easy to obtain a murexide reaction from a single wing , but one had to employ some thousands of insects before the nature of the product could be proved .
After thorough purification good figures can be obtained on analysis ; but an impurity , which raises the carbon-content , clings with some obstinacy to the product .
Analyses should not be made till the substance will dissolve in strong sulphuric acid , without charring .
c. H. N. Pieris brassicce .
A pure white product gave 35*90 3*21 A product which H2S04 charred slightly , gave .
, . . .
32*91 t Pierisrapce and brassicce ( mixed ) 36*46 3*01 Pieris canidia ( Chinese species ) . .
32*65 Calculated for uric acid 35*71 2*38 33*33 I here can be no doubt that a murexide-yielding substance , having the proper ties described , and giving the above results on analysis , is uric acid .
But there are some * ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 52 , p. 93 , 1892 .
t Pure uric acid , burnt in same tube as above , 35*80 C , 3*02 H. MR. F. G. HOFKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PIERIM .
peculiarities about its crystallization which might lead an observer , working on a small scale , and with qualitative methods only , to feel some doubt on the matter , in spite of the ready murexide test which he will obtain .
In general , impure uric acid will crystallize more readily than will the pure substance itself .
But , in the present case , as I have said , the original precipitate obtained from extracts of the wings | remains , with some obstinacy , amorphous .
After purification the crystals become characteristic enough , taking the forms proper to pure uric acid , and not those of urine sediments .
The commonest forms are rhombic prisms with truncated angles , and these tend to form rosettes .
In solutions of intermediate purity the crystals may chiefly comprise rosettes of fine needles , but approximations to the whetstone form of urine sediments are not uncommon .
Although the contents of the white scales are to all appearance amorphous , I am inclined to think that the acid exists in them mainly uncombined , and not as urates .
If it be combined with a base it is certainly in a form analogous to the quadrurates , because , although the amorphous tendencies of the extracted substance as described are always in evidence , it is quite certain that characteristic crystals of the free acid may eventually be obtained in aqueous extracts of the wings without any acid being added .
Such extracts are , in fact , markedly acid themselves while hot .
I have not yet had a supply of material large enough to spare any for the proper investigation of possibly combined bases , but the point is of no great importance at present .
The histological relationship of the uric acid to the scale is exactly that of the yellow pigment found in allied insects , or existing in other scales on the same wing , that is I to say , it is found as a deposit between the chitinous layers of which the scale is I made up .
III .
The Yellow Pigment .
It will be shown later that the same substance functions throughout the group wherever yellow or orange appears in the colourings of any species .
But the pigment of the common English Brimstone Butterfly ( rhamni ) is here dealt with as an example .
If the wings of male insects of this species , after removal from the bodies , are first extracted successively with alcohol and with cold water , and are afterwards heated t with distilled water , the yellow pigment dissolves in the latter with the greatest ease .
On filtering and cooling , an amorphous yellow powder separates , which may be i ; filtered off and dried .
This will be found to exhibit the following properties .
It is quite insoluble in alcohol , ether , chloroform , and all ordinary organic solvents .
It is practically insoluble in cold water , but dissolves with great readiness on heating , the solution being bright yellow , and markedly acid to litmus .
The hot solution fluoresces with a fine green colour , the fluorescence being especially well marked at | surface .
The immediate and complete precipitation of the pigment which occurs on cooling its hot aqueous solutions is highly characteristic .
MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PIERID^E .
The substance is easily soluble in cold alkaline solutions , and is re-precipitated therefrom on acidification .
Its solutions in ammonia are more fluorescent than aqueous ones , and even very dilute solutions fluoresce powerfully after the addition of zinc chloride , or cadmium iodide , and ammonia .
In very weak solutions the fluorescence is blue .
It yields no definite banded spectrum , but only a diffuse absorption of the violet .
Although remaining amorphous under all circumstances , the pigment is perfectly well characterised in its physical properties , never showing the least tendency to form those gummy or syrupy residues which are apt to be rejected of the chemist .
However prepared , it is , when dry , an orange powder , not unlike oxide of iron in appearance , and neither deliquescing nor altering in any way when exposed to the air .
It is precipitated from its solutions by roost of the heavy metals .
It dissolves in strong nitric acid with decomposition , and the solution yields murexide on evaporation .
A fine murexide reaction may be obtained from the hot aqueous extract of a single wing ; but the result is improved if the pigment be purified by first extracting the wing with alcohol and then with cold water .
The identity of the murexide obtained may be confirmed by means of its spectrum .
One finds that murexide solutions yield definite bands only in strengths of very limited range .
But if the red product from the yellow pigment be compared side by side with murexide prepared from uric acid , they will be seen to be identical .
By far the most important reaction yielded by the yellow pigment is seen when it is heated in open vessels on the water-bath with dilute mineral acids ( 15 to 20 per cent , sulphuric ) .
Under these circumstances it is slowly but continuously converted into a purple substance , which yields a definite , characteristic , and easily recognized spectrum .
For the sake of convenience , I shall speak of this substance as " lepido-porphyrin " \#151 ; a name which justifies itself by its analogies .
The purple derivative is sharply distinguished from the original pigment by its complete insolubility in hot water .
Thus , if a quantity of the yellow pigment be dissolved in hot water , to which about 15 per cent , of sulphuric acid has been added , and if the solution be then heated for an hour or two over the water-bath , water being added from time to time to prevent over-concentration , on cooling , a precipitate will come down consisting of the purple substance mixed with some unaltered yellow pigment .
The mixture being filtered off and washed free from acid , the yellow body may now be wholly removed by treatment with boiling water , in which the purple substance is quite insoluble .
The spectrum of the latter ( to be presently described ) can be observed , however , in a solution of the yellow body to which acid has been added , very shortly after heating has been commenced .
The change goes on slowly| in the cold in the presence of free mineral acids .
The conversion is apparently complete .
It is aided , however , by separating the purple body from time to time and continuing the process in the filtrate .
J Properties o f " Lepidoporphyrin"\#151 ; In its general properties the substance wou _ MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PIERID^E .
seem to have no analogy whatever with murexide and the purpuric acid compounds .
When separated from the parent yellow pigment in the manner described , it is an amorphous powder of fine purple colour .
It is insoluble in water , hot or cold , but more soluble in the presence of excess of mineral acids .
It is insoluble in alcohol , ether , and other organic solvents .
In alkalies it dissolves without change in its spectrum ; but , after solution , it is decomposed by them with some rapidity .
It is soluble without decomposition in strong sulphuric acid , to which it imparts a fine purple-red colour ; such solutions in oil of vitriol are quite permanent and may be kept indefinitely .
On full dilution of the acid , and especially after partial neutralisation of the solution , the substance separates completely in reddish-purple , transparent , gelatinous flakes .
These may be re-dissolved in strong acid and re-precipitated , and the process may be repeated indefinitely without the least change in the properties or spectrum of the substance .
In this respect it much resembles hsematoporphyrin .
Spectrum of " Lepidoporphyrin A\#151 ; In acid solutions this is , as I have said , well marked and characteristic .
It consists of two absorption bands ; one in the green , between the lines D and E , and another , somewhat broader , near F. The following are the wave-length measurements observed in products obtained from various species of Pieridae .
In each case the purple substance was dissolved in strong sulphuric acid :\#151 ; Gonepteryx rhamni . . . .
( a ) X 560 \#151 ; X 532 , X 515 \#151 ; X 493 , Colias edusa . . . . . .
( a ) X 560 \#151 ; X 530 , ( 6 ) X 517 \#151 ; X 491 , Euchloe cardamines . . .
( a ) X 558 \#151 ; X 530 , .(b ) X 515 \#151 ; X 493 , Callidryas argante ... .
( a ) X 560 \#151 ; X 530 , ( X 518 \#151 ; X 493 , Delias eucharis ... ... ... ..(a ) X 558 \#151 ; X 530 , ( b ) X 515 \#151 ; X 493 .
The two bands thus observed are very definite , and seem to vary scarcely at all in breadth in solutions of different strengths .
The bands seen in alkaline solutions agree in position with those just given , but , as already stated , the substance is quickly decomposed by alkalies , the solutions losing their colour and the bands disappearing .
It may be here noted that carminic acid dissolved in sulphuric acid yields two absorption bands , the centres of which agree exactly in position with those of the lepidoporphyrin bands , but the action of alkalies sharply distinguishes the two substances .
1 have as yet been unable to prepare a sufficiency of lepidoporphyrin for the purpose of analysis .
It contains about 30 per cent , of nitrogen .
IV .
An Artificial Product probably identical with the Yellow Pigment .
In 1853 Wohler* described certain observations on the effects of heating uric , |acid with water in sealed tubes at high temperatures .
The tubes , originally filled * 'Ann .
Chem. Pliarm .
, ' eiii .
, p. 118 .
An editorial note signed " W. " MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OP THE FIERIDiE .
with suitable quantities of the acid and distilled water , were found , after exposure for eight days to temperatures varying from 100 ' C. to 140 ' C. , to contain a yellow fluorescent solution , which , upon cooling , set into a gelatinous mass .
" This , " to quote Wohler , " consists of acid ammonium urate , coloured by a new-formed body , which , however , is to be obtained only in very small quantity .
" Almost simultaneously with the publication of these observations , Hlasiwetz* described experiments made on lines which were in all essentials identical .
The latter chemist , however , considered the yellow gelatinous substance which separated from the tubes to be a chemical individual , and he identified it with the compound previously described by Liebig and Wohler under the name of mycomelic acid .
This conclusion has been generally accepted , and , in the text-books , heating uric acid with water will be found described as one of the methods of preparing mycomelic acid .
I think it is easy to show that Hlasiwetz was mistaken in the inferences he drew from his experiments , and that , as a matter of fact , the real yellow product of the reaction is formed in minute quantity only , merely pigmenting a residue of unaltered ammonium urate as stated by Wohler .
I have many times carefully repeated the operation exactly as described by Hlasiwetz , and I have also varied the conditions of the process in every conceivable way , but under no circumstances does it seem possible to obtain more than a minute yield of the yellow substance .
In spite of the small yield , however , it is possible , as will be later seen , to adduce evidence to show that this artificial derivative of uric acid is closely related to , and , in all probability , identical with the natural yellow pigment described in the last section .
In perusal of the original paper by Hlasiwetz , one notes at the outset that the author entirely ignored the presence of ammonia in his tubes , though , at the temperature he employed ( 190 ' C. ) , ammonium carbonate is formed in quantity before the yellow product has appeared at all .
His procedure was to concentrate the solution direct , and to filter off " the yellow , flockv , gelatinous , uncrystallizable substance , " which separated on cooling .
It was this product he analysed , Now , if the figures given by his analyses be examined , they will be seen to agree closely with those proper to ammonium urate , whereas they are only made to agree with the composition usually assigned to mycomelic acid by the purely gratuitous assumption of a retained half molecule of water .
As a matter of fact , the aqueous solution of a yellow product , prepared exactly in accordance with the directions given by Hlasiwetz ( loc. cit. ) , will be found , if boiled up with animal charcoal and filtered , to yield a colourless filtrate , from which , on acidification , uric acid crystals separate in quite colourless condition .
The weight of these , calculated to ammonium urate , will be found to represent a very large fraction of the total yellow substance taken to boil with charcoal .
It is , however , not wholly surprising that Hlasiwetz was led to look upon his product ( which was obtained at temperatures higher than those use * 'Ann .
Chem. Pliarm , , ' ciii .
, p. 211 , MR. F. G. HOPKINS OK THE PIGMENTS OF THE PTERTDH5 .
by Wohler ) as a chemical individual .
The association between the urate and the yellow product is extremely close .
I have found no solvent that will separate them , and no amount of fractional precipitation appears to have any effect in this direction .
If , moreover , the yellow solution from the tubes be acidified , the uric acid thus precipitated is just as closely associated with the coloured substance .
It separates as an amorphous yellow powder and remains obstinately amorphous , even if dissolved and re-precipitated an indefinite number of times .
This association with the yellow substance entirely prevents crystallization of the uric acid and greatly increases its solubility in hot water .
The figures yielded by analysis of the yellow mixture scarcely differ however from those given by pure uric acid , and boiling with charcoal will , as before , yield a colourless crystalline product .
It cannot be doubted , in fact , that the " mycomelic acid " of Hlasiwetz was but pigmented ammonium urate .
The results are practically the same through wide ranges of temperature .
The yellow substance is but a bye-product in the general process of hydrolysis which goes on in the tubes , appearing at a stage in the process which varies somewhat with the temperature employed .
But the great difficulty is that , as soon as formed , it shares itself in the hydrolysis , and no adjustment of the conditions will prevent this .
The consequent smallness of the yield , and the obstinately close union with unaltered urates , make any attempt to purify the yellow substance extremely difficult .
The substance , however , is one of very high tinctorial power , and solutions of pigmented urate from the tubes are of fine yellow colour and strongly fluorescent .
The colour and fluorescence of such solutions are indeed identical with those of the natural yellow pigment , and are affected in identical manner by reagents .
So close is this resemblance that , with the knowledge that both are related to uric acid , one cannot but be impressed with the likelihood of the identity of the yellow substances .
More direct evidence of the identity thus suggested is found in the fact that the artificial product under treatment similar to that which converts the natural pigment into lepidoporphyrin yields a purple derivative , apparently identical with the latter substance .
A yellow solution of pigmented urate , prepared according to the method of Hlasiwetz , will , if heated on the water-bath with 15 per cent , sulphuric acid , gradually come to show the absorption bands of lepidoporphyrin , and will eventually yield a purple precipitate of this substance .
But the reaction is clogged by the close association of the large proportion of uric acid with the yellow substance , and may be slow to commence .
A modified procedure , however , enables the artificial product to be obtained with greater ease .
This consists in adding to the original mixture of uric acid and water , before heating , sufficient sulphuric acid to neutralize all the ammonium carbonate , which is else formed in the tubes .
Hydrolysis is then accomplished in the acid condition without much change in the ultimate yield of the yellow bye-product .
The tubes , when removed from the furnace , have , it is true , a lighter colour than when pure water is used , but merely because alkaline solutions of the yellow substance MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PlERIDvE .
are darker than corresponding acid ones ; the actual quantity formed is much the same in both cases .
But the circumstance that in the acidified tubes much less unhydro-lized uric acid goes into solution prevents in some measure its troublesome association with the yellow substance in the final product ; something like a separation is to be obtained , and from such products artificial lepidoporphyrin may be prepared with ease .
It will be best to describe at this stage an actual experiment in which the purple derivative was successfully obtained .
Six tubes , each containing 2 grms. uric acid , 20 cub. centims. water , and 5 cub. centims. strong sulphuric acid , were sealed and heated for three hours at 190 ' to 195 ' C. After cooling they were opened , the mixed contents transferred to a beaker , diluted with water and heated to boiling .
The solution was filtered hot , yielding a yellow fluorescent filtrate , which on cooling deposited a yellow amorphous precipitate .
This was filtered off , washed with cold water , and dried in the air bath ; the dried substance was then boiled up with 100 cub. centims. of dilute sulphuric acid ( 15 per cent. ) , the solution filtered , and heated on the open water-bath .
The bands of lepidoporphyrin could be seen in this solution after the lapse of about an hour .
It was heated for three hours , the bulk of solution being maintained by occasional additions of water , and finally allowed to stand for 24 hours .
The precipitate , which had then settled , contained a large portion of the purple substance .
It was dissolved in strong sulphuric acid , yielding a rich carmine-red solution , which was examined spectroscopically .
It showed bands identical with those given by lepidoporphyrin .
The following measurements were obtained with a spectroscope belonging to Dr. A. E. Garrod , who kindly checked the readings:\#151 ; Artificial lepidoporphyrin ... ... ... ... ... ... .(a ) X 560-X 532 , ( b ) X 515-X 494 , Lepidoporphyrin from Gonepteryx rhamni .
( a ) X 560-X 532 , ( ) X 515-X 493 .
A large number of preparations of the artificial substance have given identical results .
As might be expected , the impure products from the sealed tubes never give lepidoporphyrin with the ease and rapidity found in the case of the natural pigment , but , if the right conditions are observed , they never fail to give a plentiful yield .
For some reason ( probably because a further separation from uric acid is obtained on subsequent extraction ) the change takes place more rapidly if the tube products aie dried , as described above , before the treatment with sulphuric acid on the open water-bath .
No purple , it should be observed , is ever pre-formed in the closed tubes , even when acid is present .
Lastly , it may be noted that in the spectrum of aitificial products a narrow band may occasionally be seen to the red side of , and close up to , LX This belongs to a more soluble body , which will indeed dissolve in water .
On boiling with dilute sulphuric acid , this is entirely converted into lepidoporphyrin .
In its solubility and behaviour towards re-agents , the artificial lepidopoiph^in agrees exactly with that obtained from the natural pigment .
Anyone wishing to pi on e the identity of the two products , may do so with the greatest ease on quite a snuil MB .
F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PIERID^E .
scale .
A grm. of uric acid , heated with acidified water in a sealed tube , and the wing-extracts of a couple of Pierids , will each yield ample lepidoporphyrin for the purposes of identification and comparison , I think it best to make no claim for having obtained proof of identity between the natural and artificial yellow substances beyond what is given by the qualitative evidence just detailed .
Nevertheless , after hydrolizing in the acid condition large quantities of uric acid\#151 ; half a kilo and upwards being heated in an autoclave\#151 ; I have fractionated out , by repeated solution in hot water ( drying the extract before each fresh treatment ) products which yield lepidoporphyrin with great ease , and at the same time give figures on analysis which agree closely with those to be detailed for the pigment in the next section .
But the conditions are difficult to define , and I hesitate to describe the method as one by which a pure substance can be prepared with any certainty .
I have now become the less concerned to prepare such products because , while the process by which they are obtained\#151 ; hydrolysis at high temperature \#151 ; is not one likely to throw much light upon the constitution of the pigment from a synthetical point of view , repeated efforts have convinced me that the yield must always be so small , that for analytical work it is nearly , if not quite , as convenient to work with the natural substance .
V. Analysis of the Natural Yellow Pigment .
Having regard to the fact that the substance is an amorphous one , its purity being therefore difficult to demonstrate , the following analyses are given with all due reserve .
But it will be seen that substantial agreement is obtained in the figures yielded by pigment from entirely different species , and even from different genera , a fact which should certainly add to their value .
A sufficient number of a given species of insect to yield pigment for quantitative work is seldom to be obtained on any one occasion .
The analyses were therefore made at long intervals during a period of more than three years , the combustion apparatus used varying in different experiments .
All the results obtained are given below , no kind of selection of more concordant figures having been made .
In all cases , the wings , after removal from the bodies of the insects , were allowed to stand for two or three days in rectified spirit .
This was then replaced by cold water , and the wings again allowed to stand for a day or two .
Considerable quantities of soluble constituents are thus removed .
The pigment was then extracted by heating with distilled water .
The hot yellow aqueous extract was filtered and cooled , when the pigment separated out almost completely .
It was filtered off , washed with cold water , and dried in glass basins at 100 ' .
The residue was then extracted twice or thrice in the basin with boiling absolute alcohol , and finally dried at 110 ' .
Any further treatment employed is given before the figures of the analysis in each case .
I. Gonepteryx rhamni(male).\#151 ; 500 insects yielded about *350 grm. of pure pigment , obtained by dissolving the original product , prepared as above described , in ammonia and re-precipitating with acetic acid .
The washed precipitate was dried at 110 ' .
*1748 grm. gave ( J02 " 2457 , and H20 0497 .
O \#151 ; 38 33 \ II = 3*16 .
*0746 grin , gave 22*7 cub. centims. moist N at 758 millims. and 3 ' .
N = 37*70 .
II .
Golias Jieldii.\#151 ; 120 insects yielded *0935 grm. purified as in I. *0598 grm. ( dried 110 ' ) gave *0829 CO:3 and *0194 H30 .
C = 37*81 ; H - 3*60 .
III .
Terms Usa.\#151 ; 200 insects yielded about *100 grm. only .
Pigment dissolved in Na2CQ3 and re-precipitated by acetic acid .
*094 grm. ( dried 110 ' ) gave *1305 C02 and *0288 H30 .
C = 37*86 ; H = 3*40 .
These three separate samples of pigment from entirely different species show such substantial agreement ( although the Collets analysis was on very small quantities ) , that it afterwards seemed justifiable to work on mixed species .
IV .
Gonepteryx rhamni(245 male insects ) mixed with various species of ( 204 insects ) .
Yield about '320 grm. after purification as in I. *1090 grm. gave C02 *1521 and H20 *0330 .
C = 37'97 ; II = 3 35 .
*0956 grm. gave C02 *1346 and H20 *030 .
C = 38*40 ; H = 3 48 .
*0489 grm. gave 15*8 cub. centims. N. at 768*5 millims. and 19*5 ' .
N = 37 47 .
V. Gonepteryx rhamni ( 120 male insects ) .
Yield about '90 grm. alter purification , as in I. *0826 grm. ( dried at 120 ' ) gave C02 \#151 ; *1149 ; H20 *0253 .
C = 37*94 ; IT \#151 ; 3*44 .
VI .
Colias edusa , purified as in III .
*0528 grm. ( dried at 110 ' ) gave 16*8 cub. centims. N. at 760 millims. and 21 5 .
N = 36*15 .
MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PIERID , \#174 ; .
Summary .
C. N. H. O. Gonepteryx rhamni . . . .
^ 38-33 37-94 37-70 316 3-44 20-81 Qoneptei'yx rJiamni and Terias .
| 38-40 37-97 37-47 . .
3-48 3-35 2065 21-21 Terias lisa 37-86 . .
3 80 . .
Golias fieldii 37-81 .
9 3-60 , , Colias edusa . .
36-15 . . . .
Mean 3813 3711 3-47 21-29 VII .
Colias edusa.\#151 ; In the following case the pigment , after initial purification , was precipitated as a silver-salt , and the latter decomposed by warming with ammonium chloride .
The ammonia compound obtained was then decomposed by means of sulphuric acid , and the pigment separated from traces of silver chloride by re-solution in hot water .
The quantity left for analysis was too small for accuracy , but I give the figures to complete the series :\#151 ; .0478 gram , gave *068 C02 and *018 H20 , .0269 gram , gave 8*2 cub. centims. N at 770'4 millims. and 22 ' , C = 38*80 H = 4*20 N = 38*13 .
We thus see that the acid pigment , when separated from possible traces of combined bases , is in all probability identical in various species which differ rather widely in colouring and habits .
This will be later seen to receive confirmation from analysis of the silver compounds .
Gonepteryx and the various species of Terias used for the above analysis are a pale sulphur-yellow in colour , while Colias Jieldii and edusa are of full orange colour .
To some extent , though not in a marked degree , the extracted pigment keeps the distinction found in the wings as regards depth of tint , as though the difference were one of molecular condition .
Still , the actual shade of the purified product varies with the mode of preparation .
Silver Compounds of the Yellow Pigment.\#151 ; Hot aqueous solutions of the pigment yield on the addition of silver nitrate an orange gelatinous precipitate which shows no tendency to reduce even on boiling .
In order to secure complete precipitation , the substance which , as already stated , is markedly acidic in its character , should be first exactly neutralized ; otherwise very dilute solution must be employed .
It is very difficult to dry the silver compound completely without the occurrence of some decomposition , and experience has finally led me to adopt the following plan for the determination of the percentage of silver .
A weighed quantity of the purified mdcccxcv.\#151 ; b. 4 s pigment is dissolved in ammonium hydrate , and the solution evaporated to dryness on the water-bath to remove excess of ammonia .
The residue is then dissolved in water , arid the solution ascertained to be exactly neutral to litmus .
Such a solution is completely precipitated by silver nitrate , the filtrate from the precipitate being absolutely colourless .
The silver may be then determined and the percentage calculated from the weight of pigment originally taken , without the necessity of drying and weighing the silver compound .
By this method the second , third , and fourth of the following results were obtained , the first by precipitation of the weighed pigment in hot aqueous solution largely diluted ( 800 cub. centims. ) .
In each case the precipitate was dried and ignited , the silver weighed , and the result checked by titration by Volhard 's method .
Species .
Weight of pigment taken .
Silver titrated .
Indicated molecular -weight .
ingms .
mums .
Gonepteryx rhamni 100 71-5 150-9 15 5 ?
250 178-4 151-2 Golias edusa 145 103-2 151-6 Calliclryas ( mixed species ) .
96 68-0 152-3 The Goneiiteryx pigment which gave the first result was prepared from insects which had been some years in a cabinet .
In the second case the insects were bred during the present season ( 1895 ) and killed within a few hours of emergence from the pupa .
If the precipitation by silver is carried out in the presence of excess of ammonium hydrate a compound is obtained which contains ammonia and a larger percentage of silver ( 50'7 per cent. ) .
It would seem to be a molecular compound of the formula Ag2X , Ag N H4X , in which the substance acts as a dibasic acid ; but it is referred to here only to emphasize the fact that excess of alkali should be avoided in preparing solutions for precipitation as described above .
It would serve no good purpose to attempt , with the above evidence , to assign a definite formula to the yellow pigment , but the following points are , I think , worthy of consideration .
As I have ventured to assert above , the fact that substantial agreement is seen in the analyses of products from insects of divers species , the locality , habits , and food plants of which differ widely , is strong evidence that a chemical individual is being dealt with , in a condition of , at least , approximate purity .
This is certainly borne out by the general behaviour of the product as prepared for analysis , for , after purification as described above , it permits of no sort of fractionation that I have been able to discover.* The simplicity and completeness of the reaction by which it is converted into lepidoporphyrin is further evidence in the * Experience with Hlasiwetz product naturally led one to suspect that the wings might contain an analogous mixture , and a large proportion of the available material was spent in a wholly unsuccessful endeavour to effect a separation .
MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PlERIDiE .
same direction .
If it be admitted that the substance is a chemical individual , the composition of its silver compound shows clearly that its molecule is of the same order of magnitude as that of uric acid itself , and is not of the complexity which might be expected in a pigmentary substance .
As I have stated , the action of dilute mineral acids ( such as sulphuric and hydrochloric ) upon it , is solely to produce lepidoporphyrin , and the latter substance yields no murexide reaction .
But , if the yellow pigment be carefully oxidised with warm dilute nitric acid , no more of the reagent being used than is sufficient to decolorize the solution , colourless crystals of uric acid may be obtained on cooling .
From the above facts it would seem to be at least probable that the difference between uric acid and the pigment is one of oxidation .
That the relation between them is a simple one is further suggested by biological evidence .
Slight climatic influences may so affect metabolism in the pupa that yellow takes the place of white in the wings .
Thus , the common English white butterfly , P. rapes , which I have used for many of my experiments , after migrating to North America , takes on an uniform yellow flush , * and the pigment of this variety I can show to yield plentiful lepidoporphyrin .
Such a variation , it seems to me , one might expect to be a question of oxidation .
The figures of the above analysis will be found to agree not unsatisfactorily with the composition of a substance derived from uric acid , by the replacement of an atom of oxygen by two of hydrogen , and the molecular weight required for this ( 154 ) is in fair agreement with what is indicated by the silver salts .
It is , perhaps , unlikely that the actual constitution of the pigment wTill be demonstrated until the artificial substance has been prepared from uric acid by a reaction of more determinate nature than that of hydrolysis at high temperatures .
Since the product of Hlasiwetz is certainly not mycomelic acid , there was no d priori likelihood of obtaining the pigment by the other reactions which are supposed to yield this latter substance .
As a matter of fact , a careful investigation has convinced me that the product of the action of ammonia on alloxan ( Liebig and Wohler ) and the body produced by boiling azulmic acid with water ( Jacobsen and Emmerling ) are substances distinct from each other and from the Hlasiwetz product .
They give no reactions which connect them with the pigment .
While waiting further evidence as to its precise nature , the yellow Pierid pigment may be conveniently known as Lepidoticacid .
Yl .
The " Interlaminar " Pigments .
In an early section of this paper I referred to the fact that , in addition to the scale pigments , which I have now shown to be clearly excretory in nature , there are to be found in butterflies ( in the Pieridae , at any rate ) , existing between the chitinous mem* Scudder 's * Butterflies , ' p. 164 .
4 S 2 MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OP THE PIERlDyE .
branes of which the wing is formed , pigments of different nature and significance which may fittingly be termed interlaminar pigments .
As is well known , the chitinous framework of the wing in Lepidoptera may be easily separated , by soaking in water or other means , into two separate laminae , and the space between these is the remains of a cavity which , in the embryo wing , is continuous with the body-cavity .
In the imago , when the wings have dried after emergence from the pupa , these two laminae are more or less adherent ; but , in the insects I am referring to , they are separated by a small quantity of pigment , which , from its position , is probably related to the blood pigment .
From the wings of the yellow and white Pieridae , with which I have chiefly worked , cold water extracts a brilliant green pigment , which is easily seen , if the scales be removed , to be interlaminar in origin.* It contains iron , and yields a spectrum with a well-marked band in the red .
The spectrum is not that of chlorophyll .
This substance is not of great importance in determining the wing-colour of the white and yellow insects , though it alters the shade in a slight degree .
But I have been able to find at least one genus ( Nepheronia ) in the Pieridae where a pigment of this sort is of chief functional importance in ornament .
Thus , in the species N. lutescens(Butl .
) the males have the ground colours of the wings of a delicate blue shade , which is entirely due to an interlaminar pigment showing through a covering of colourless scales .
The females of the same species show the ordinary yellow pigments .
It is thus seen that in butterflies , as elsewhere , what is probably a blood pigment may function in ornament simultaneously with the epidermal pigments\#151 ; a point which is of interest in association with Mr. Poulton 's classification of like phenomena in Lepidopterous larvee.t VII .
The General Pigmentation of the Group in Relation to the above Res The black pigment is , as I have said , very intimately associated with the chitin of the scale , and does not appear to be extracted satisfactorily by any solvent that I have been able to employ .
I have made no attempt , therefore , to deal with it in the present paper .
All other scale-coloration in Pierids is produced by means of uric acid , its yellow derivative , and , probably , by only one other allied scale-pigment to be later described .
Colours not directly due to these substances are produced by super-added optical effects , or by the interlaminar substances described in the last section .
Uric acid itself occurs , I believe , in the wing-scales of all the white Pieridse , and probably wherever a chalky-white patch is found on the wing of a Pierid .
I his statement is based upon the evidence of the murexide test alone , except in the case * Vide foot-note , p. ( 363 .
t ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 38 , p. 269 , 1885 .
MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PIERID .
E. of the three species which I used for quantitative work ( Section III .
) .
Of these , Rapes and Brassicce are closely allied , but Canidia is of a type so far different from the other two as to give valuable evidence of the general distribution of uric acid in the group .
The yellow pigment one can trace with the greatest ease , even when a single insect is alone available , by the recognition of the spectrum of its derivative purple body .
By this means , and by the use of the murexide test , I have traced it in all the typical genera of the Pieridse .
I have employed many scores of species , and may say that , with the single exception of insects whose colouring is due to what I have termed interlaminar pigments , every coloured patch on the wing of a Pier id will be found to yield more or less lepidoporphyrin .
The best method of applying the test on a small scale ( say by the use of from one to three insects ) is first to dip the wings in a little spirit , to allow of their being more easily wetted subsequently by water .
Next to transfer them to a test-tube ( of course after careful removal from the bodies ) , to heat them for a few minutes with water , to filter oft ' the yellow extract into a second test-tube , and finally , having added 20 per cent , of sulphuric acid , to heat the solution for half-an-hour on the water-bath .
The yellow solution gradually becomes more and more red in colour , and the absorption bands ( Section III .
) are soon visible .
After a while the purple body separates out , and , if the supernatant fluid be now pipetted off , strong sulphuric acid will strike a magnificent red colour with the precipitate , and the bands may be seen still more plainly in the strong acid solution .
If one examines a representative collection of Pierids , it is quite evident that the chief colour-energy of the group is expended in yellow and orange .
In many genera yellow is almost universal , and in all such it is easy to show that the substance described in this paper forms the chemical basis of pigmentation .
The wide distribution of such a genus as Terias , and the multiplicity of species it comprises , as well as the magnificent coloration in the males of the larger species of Amynthia , and allied genera , give to this yellow " lepidotic acid , " which colours them , a position of some importance as an animal pigment .
There is one point I have observed which is , perhaps , not easy of explanation , but which may be fitly referred to here .
Uric acid and the yellow pigment are very commonly found together in different areas of the same wing ; when , therefore , one had to deal with a yellow insect which has a uniform ground colour paler than normal , it seemed not unlikely that each individual scale might contain both bodies , the yellow being diluted by the white .
That is to say , the change in metabolism which has led uric acid to be replaced by its yellow derivative would , in such cases , have been partial only .
I have been unable , however , to get clear evidence of the presence of uric acid in these pale yellow insects , and the lighter colour seems to be due to a smaller proportion of pigments .
As an instance of this , the pale species of may be mentioned ; C. for example , might be thought to differ from its darker congeners in its pigment being MR. F. Cr .
HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PIERIDHS .
diluted with white , but I have not been able to separate uric acid from this species .
The two substances seldom or never coexist in the same scale .
In the light coloured females of yellow genera , like and there is also an absence of unaltered uric acid .
Save for the chlorotic effect of the green interlaminar pigment so often referred to , their colour is due to the unpigmented chitin of the scales .
Their appearance is that of true white species after extraction of the uric acid .
Where yellow gives place to orange , the effect is generally due merely to an increased quantity of pigment .
On the other hand , it is possible that in certain cases a pure yellow may be made orange by slight admixture with the closely allied red substance now to be mentioned .
Actual red is a colour by no means common on the wings of Pierids .
It is developed , however , in Delias and allied genera , typically in the form of marginal spots on the under surface of the hind wing .
It has proved difficult to obtain a sufficient supply of this red pigment for a proper investigation of its properties ; but it is easy to show that it differs very little , chemically , from the yellow substance .
It is freely soluble in hot water , its aqueous solution being yellow , exactly similar in appearance to that of the commoner pigment as obtained , for instance , from a yellow area usually found upon the same wing .
It yields lepidoporphyrin with equal ease , and it gives the murexide reaction .
( No lepidoporphyrin is present in the original extract from the red spots .
) On one occasion I was fortunate enough to obtain a supply of a species of Delias ( D. ) sufficient for the preparation of its silver compound .
This ( precipitated in ammoniacal solution ) contained 51 per cent , of metal , which will be seen to agree with the result obtained from the yellow substance under like circumstances ( Section V. ) .
In many respects , therefore , it closely resembles the yellow pigment , but its yellow aqueous extract when evaporated leaves a residue which on drying is distinctly red .
Whether this betokens a mere physical difference , or whether the yellow body ( which , as I have shown , is markedly acidic in character ) may be here combined with some base , I am at present unable to say .
It is sufficient for my present purpose to show that the pigments are closely allied ; but the point is an important one for settlement nevertheless , since the yellow lepidotic acid and its red modification are practically the only coloured scale-pigments in the whole group of the Pierids .
In the rare cases where colours other than yellow , orange , or the brick-red colour found in Delias occur , the chemical basis is still the same , modified by purely optical effects ; of these I shall give instances immediately .
It is interesting to note , by comparing various allied species of , that the red marginal spot may become more yellow , while the yellow area usually found at the root of the same wing may become more red , till both may exhibit a unifoim orange colour , or the change may go farther and red and yellow change places without the general colour-plan of the wing being altered .
MR , F. Gr .
HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE P1ERIDJE .
Cases among Pierids where the typical colours of the group are departed from , are by no means common .
A green colour , found , for instance , on the under surface of the English Orange Tip ( Cardamines ) and on many allied species , is well known to be entirely due to admixture of black and yellow scales .
The greenish hue of certain arctic species of Colicis is also due to admixture of melanic scales throughout the yellow of the wing .
In a genus known as Appias one finds a uniform coloration of a warm reddish-brown tint , at times almost resembling the colour of mahogany .
But the wings of these insects yield a solution of lepidotic acid , from which plentiful lepidoporphyrin may be obtained .
After extraction with hot water the chitin of the scales remains tinted with what appears to be a very small amount of the melanic pigment , which will account for the brown , as distinct from yellow , colour of the wings .
But it is in certain members of the group usually described under the name Teracolus , that the greatest departure from the normal pigmentation of Pierids occurs .
The orange " tips " which are common on the upper wings of this group may be replaced by a brilliant red , in which the pigment I have described in Delias undoubtedly is present .
But the red may take a bluer shade , and finally , in such species as T. imperator(Butl .
) , T. coliagenes(Butl .
) , and others , one finds a very striking development of colour strongly suggesting the effect of aniline dyes of the magenta type .
On extracting these brilliant colour patches with hot water , however , one gets a yellow solution from which lepidoporphyrin may be obtained with ease .
The wing after extraction is practically colourless .
In fact , the only pigment present is , once again , lepidotic acid or its red modification , the remarkable colour effect on the wing being due to a superadded interference effect caused by certain finely striated delicate scales , which , in the extracted wing , may be seen mingled with the ordinary scales which have contained pigment .
In making this observation , I have chiefly worked with Anthocariszoe , a finely coloured insect of this type , for my supply of which I was indebted to Mr. Guose-Smith .
I have also employed specimens of Imperator obtained from the same source .
The scale-pigments of the Pieridse are thus few in number , closely related , and easily identified .
I have never found a coloured patch on any single species which would not yield a yellow solution to hot water , nor one from which the murexide and lepidoporphyrin tests could not be obtained .
VIII .
The Pigments of other Butterflies.\#151 ; Pigments Mimicry .
Although uric acid and its soluble murexide-yielding derivatives are so universal m the Pieridm , they seem to be largely confined to this group of Butterflies .
I do not pretend to have so thoroughly explored the Lepidoptera as to be able to deny their occurrence elsewhere in this large class of insects , but I have examined species representative of all the more important sub-families among the Bhopalocera without 680 MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PTERTDH3 .
finding evidence of their presence.* It is in the highest degree probable that other lepidopterous pigments are allied to excretory products , hut no other group offers clear evidence of this , such as is found in the Pierids .
In the group usually held to be most nearly related to the Pierids , the Papilionidce proper , I have examined many species without finding allied pigments .
The yellow substance found , for instance , in such an insect as the common English " Swallowtail " has entirely different properties .
It may be extracted with hot water , but it yields a gummy residue from which neither murexide nor " lepidoporphyrin " reactions can be obtained .
A red pigment , common in the Papilionids , is very slightly soluble , but if treated on the wings with acids it becomes of a faint yellow colour .
The red may be restored by treatment with alkalies , or by thorough washing with cold water till the acid is removed .
This reaction was , I believe , first described by Mr. F. H. Perry-CosTE.t This pigment may be well studied in the species Papilio Mene laides ) aristoldchce , where the action of acids on the red spots produces an appearance almost exactly like that of the females of Laertias pammon\#151 ; insects which are supposed to mimic Aristolochce , but which have yellowish instead of red spots .
No murexide or lepidoporphyrin can be obtained from this substance .
Among the Nymphalidce one finds many pigments which are soluble in hot water or dilute alkalies , but none of these , so far as I have been able to discover , yield the characteristic reactions of the Pierid pigments .
The brighter pigments , such as the reds found in the Vanessidce , are the more characteristically soluble ; the darker pigments being less so .
In this family occurs the remarkable white pigment which turns bright yellow with alkalies .
It is found in the English " Marbled White , " Arge galathea ( vide ' Nature/ vol. xxx .
, p. 571 ) .
It yields no trace of murexide .
In the Lyccenidce chemical pigments play a subordinate part , interference colours predominating .
From no species of this group have I been able to extract murexide-vielding bodies .
Lastly , the brown pigments of the Hesperiidce , or " Skippers , " are soluble with difficulty , and do not yield the reactions described .
In the apparently strict confinement of these special pigments to the Pieridae , we have interesting evidence justifying the customary classification of these insects as a natural group ; hut the fact has a still more important bearing on the subject of mimicry .
The resemblance between the genus Leptalis ( Pieridae ) and certain of the Heliconiidce is , perhaps , the best known of all instances of protective mimicry .
L have found that the mimicking Pierid retains the characteristic pigments of its group , while those of the mimicked Heliconid are quite distinct .
This would seem wholly to refute the argument that in such cases the likeness may spring from a real affinity between the two insects .
* I have for instance been quite unable to confirm the observations of A. B. Griffiths , referred to at ^ the commencement of this paper .
Soluble green pigments undoubtedly exist in the various species , mentioned by this author ( lo .
cit. ) , but after many efforts I have been unable to obtain from them any uric acid reactions whatsoever .
t 'Entomologist , ' 1889-91 ; * Natui-e , ' xlv .
, pp. 513 , 514 .
MR. F. G. HOPKINS ON THE PIGMENTS OF THE PIERID^E .
Thus , I obtained a supply of Leptalis ( vel Dismorphia ) and found that the yellow and orange pigments of the wing gave a yellow solution in hot water , which , heated with sulphuric acid , rapidly turned pink and showed the characteristic bands of lepidoporphyrin .
A murexide reaction was also easily obtained from the purified substance .
On the other hand , various species of including M. doryssus , M. lysidice , and others , though containing pigments soluble in water , gave solutions which yielded no trace of either lepidoporphyrin or murexide .
IX .
The Pigments the Chrysalis .
In the butterfly metabolism is reduced to a minimum , and there is every reason to suppose that the pigmentation of the wing is practically unaffected during the life of the imago .
The uric acid and the substances allied to it , which are found on the wings of a Pierid must be formed during the rapid tissue changes which occur in the pupa .
A collection of renal excretory products in the rectum during the pupal stage is a common phenomenon in insects , and it would seem as though the Malpighian tubes of the future imago come into action some time before the completion of development .
Thus the blow-fly when it first emerges from the pupa-case excretes a mass of nearly pure uric acid .
Poulton has shown that among butterflies the Vanessidse excrete uric acid under like circumstances .
I have myself observed that the yellow Pieridae also void uric acid immediately after they leave the chrysalis , and it is a point of great interest to note that this is associated with a yellow pigment , almost certainly the same as that found in the wings.* I have obtained clear lepidoporphyrin reactions from the yellow material so voided .
The fact is thus emphasized that the substances used in ornament are the true excretory products of the animal .
The nature of the process whereby these products reach the wing-scales can only be ascertained by a careful study of pupal development .
I have myself repeatedly observed that the scales are fully developed anatomically before the pigments appear in them .
No murexide or lepidoporphyrin reactions can be obtained from the embryo wings until the perfect insect is close upon emergence , not , I believe , much before the time when similar excretory products have begun to accumulate in the rectum .
As pigments similar to those found in the matured wing-scales of many butterflies , are also present in the hair-like scales which clothe the body , it would seem that the existence of excretory products in the wing is not to be explained by any reference to the ancestral history of the special organ .
The possibility of tracing the process of pigmentation in the developing pupa makes the whole problem one of special attractiveness .
My own work in this latter direction is , however , too incomplete to be referred to in this paper .
* Hr .
Urech has pointed out that the pigments found in the excreta of butterflies are apt to be of Ihe same colour as those predominant in the wing ( Beddard 's , " Animal Coloi'ation , ' p. 41 ) .
Summary of the Facts detailed Paper .
1 .
The scales of white Pieridse contain uric acid , and the presence of this substance is , in fact , the cause of the opaque milky whiteness , characteristic of the wings of such insects .
2 .
The scales of allied yellow insects are pigmented with a substance closely related to uric acid , the yellow pigment being in all probability identical with a product obtained when uric acid is heated with water under pressure .
3 .
The yellow substance may be traced in all the genera of the Pieridae , and with the exception of another closely allied red pigment , is probably the only coloured scale-pigment present ; its colour effects may , however , be modified by superadded interference phenomena , or by pigments found , not in the scales , but between the chitinous laminae of the wing itself .
4 .
Pigments , giving the reactions described in this paper , are apparently not found in other groups of butterflies , so that when the Pierid mimics an insect belonging to another group the pigments in the two cases may be easily distinguished chemically .
5 .
The yellow wing pigment is frequently found in material voided from the rectum of a Pierid , showing that in the coloured insects , as well as in the white , a normal excretory product subserves the purpose of ornament .
Most of the insects used in this investigation have been obtained as occasion offered , through the dealers , but I have to thank Professor Meldola , Mr. William Bateson ( of St. John 's College , Cambridge ) , and others , for contributions to my store of material .
I have also obtained specimens of many rare insects ( which have-enabled me to trace the presence of lepidotic acid in nearly all the genera of the Pieridae ) from duplicates in the magnificent collection of Mr. Grose-Smith .
The greater part of the work was carried out in the laboratories of Guy 's Hospital during my tenure of the Gull Research Studentship .
I owe much to the care and enthusiasm of Mr. H. C. Coram , who assisted me .
Finally , my grateful acknowledgments are due to Professors Meldola and Ray Lankester for much kind encouragement I have received from them .

