An Account of some Galvanic Combinations , formed by the Arrangement of single metallic Plates and Fluids , analogous to the new Galvanic Apparatus of Mr. Volta .
By Mr. Humphry Davy , Lecturer on Chemistry in the Royal Institution .
Communicated by Benja-min Count of Rumford , V.P.R.S. Read June 18 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 397 .
] Those who have attended to the latest experiments on galvanism , will recollect that the combinations hitherto used in that curious process consist of a pile of successive pairs of two metals , or of one metal and charcoal , and a stratum of fluid between each pair ; and that the agencies of these combinations have been generally ascribed to the different powers of the metals to conduct electricity .
Our author in the present paper states some arguments founded on experiments , from which it appears that an accumulation of galvanic influence , exactly similar to that produced in the above-mentioned pile , may be effected by the arrangement of single metallic plates , or arcs , between strata of different fluids .
What first led to the discovery was the observation that the galvanic effects were readily produced when the metallic pairs were alternated with acids or other fluids capable of oxidating one only of the metals of the series .
Double plates , for instance , composed of silver and gold , produced galvanic action when placed in contact in the common order with cloths moistened in diluted nitric acid ; and plates of copper and silver when nitrate of mercury was used .
It was hence inferred that galvanic effects might be produced if single metallic plates could be connected together by differenit fluids , in such a manner that one of their surfaces only should undergo oxidation , the arrangement in other respects being regularly progressive .
The first experiments were made with tin , small plates , or arcs , of which were made to alternate with acid and water .
About twenty sets of these produce a galvanic battery , in which the wire from the oxidating surface of the plates evolved hydrogen , and that from the non-oxidating surface ( when of silver ) deposited oxide .
The second series consisted of plates , or arcs , of silver , copper , or lead , placed alternately between cloths steeped in water , and in solution of sulphuret of potash .
The effects of this combination were much more perceptible than those of the preceding .
And a still more powerful battery was obtained by using metallic substances oxidable in acids , and capable of acting on solutions of sulphurets , and connecting them with oxidating fluids , and solutions of sulphurets of potash , in such a manner that the opposite sides of every plate may undergo different chemical changes .
How this is to be effected is here explained at length , and an apparatus , contrived by Count Rumford , is lastly mentioned , for facilitating and giving permanency to the alternate succession of the different substances , so as to prevent , particularly in the fluids , the interference with each other , which would materially affect the results .

