1889 .
] The Spinal Curvature in an Aboriginal Australian .
487 Transactions ( continued ) .
Tokio:\#151 ; Imperial University , College of Science .
Journal .
Vol. II .
Part 4 .
4to .
Tokyo 1888 ; Calendar of the University .
1888-89 .
8vo .
Tokyo 1888 .
The University .
Toulouse:\#151 ; Academic des Sciences , Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres .
Memoires .
Ser. 8 .
Tome X. 8vo .
Toulouse 1888 .
The Academy .
Tromsoe:\#151 ; Museum .
Aarsberetning .
1887 .
8vo .
Tromsd 1888 ; Aarshefter .
Vol. XI .
8vo .
Tromsd 1888 .
The Museum .
Trondhjem :\#151 ; Kongelige Norske Videnskabers Selskab .
Skrifter .
1886-87 .
8vo .
TTirondhjem 1888 .
The Society .
Turin:\#151 ; R. Accademia dell Scienze , Atti .
Vol. XXIV .
Disp .
2-5 .
8vo .
Torino 1889 .
The Academy .
Observations and Reports .
International Polar Expeditions .
Report on the Proceedings of the United States Expedition to Lady Franklin Bay , Grinnell Land .
Vol. I. 4to .
Washington 1888 .
Signal Office , Washington .
Rome:\#151 ; Osservatorio del Collegio Romano .
Pontificia Uni-versita Gregoriana .
Vol. XXVII .
Num. 6-7 .
4to .
Roma 1888 .
The Observatory .
St. Petersburg :\#151 ; Physikalisches Central\#151 ; Observatorium .
Annalen .
1887 .
Theil 1 .
4to .
St. Petersburg 1888 .
The Observatory .
Washington:\#151 ; U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey .
Bulletin .
Nos. 5-8 .
4to .
[ Washington ] 1888 .
The Survey .
" The Spinal Curvature in an Aboriginal Australian .
" By D. J. Cunningham , M.D. ( Edin .
and JDubl .
) , Professor of Anatomy in the University of Dublin .
Communicated by Sir W. Turner , F.R.S. Received January 14 , \#151 ; Read January 24 , 1889 .
When the lumbar vertebrae of a native Australian , or of several other low races of man , are placed in apposition , the centra form a curved column , with the concavity directed to the front .
In other words , the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae are not moulded as in the European , but are wedge-shaped in the opposite direction .
This condition can be expressed and contrasted in the different races by formulating a lumbo-vertebral index .
In calculating this index the anterior vertical diameter of the vertebral body is taken as the standard , VOL. XLV .
2 K 488 Dr. D. J. Cunningham .
and as equal to 100.* A lumbar vertebra , therefore , with an index of 100 , may be regarded as neutral ; it is equally deep in front and behind , and can in no way contribute to the formation of a curve in the antero-posterior direction .
A vertebra , on the other hand , with an index of 100 + , is shaped in a fashion unfavourable to the forma-tioti of a curve with the couvexity directed forwards , its posterior vertical depth is greater than its anterior vertical depth .
Again , a vertebra with an index of 100\#151 ; is moulded in a manner favourable to the formation of a curve with the convexity looking forwards .
It is deeper in front than behind .
In seventy-six European spines , and in seventeen spines of aboriginal Australians , the average indices obtained for the several lumbar vertebrae were as follows :\#151 ; Lumbo-vertebral Index .
76 Europeans .
f7 Australians .
Lumbar vertebra I ... ... .
106 1 119-8 " ii ... ... .
101-4 113 0 m ... ... .
97 -2 113-6 iv 93 -5 103-9 " V 81-6 90 " 4 Lumbo-vertebral index 95-8 107*8 The difference brought out by these figures is very marked .
Indeed , in this respect the Europeans and Australians constitute the two extremes : no race shows an index lower than that of the European , and no race presents an index higher than that of the Australian .
In the investigations which I made three years ago into the constitution of the lumbar curve in Man and the Apes , I was very early convinced that little could be learned regarding the character and degree of the curve from the lumbo-vertebral index .
I was led to adopt this conclusion as the following facts became apparent:\#151 ; 1 .
In European spines a high index is not unfrequently associates with a high degree of curvature .
' 2 .
In the Chimpanzee , in which the lumbo-vertebral index is so nig * * Cunningham Memoir , ' No. 2 , Koval Irish Academy.\#151 ; " The Lumbar iu Man and the Apes , " by D. J. Cunningham , M.D. * Zoology of the Voyage H.M.S. " Challenger , " Part XLYII.'\#151 ; Sir Wm. Turner 's " Keport on the Huma Skeletons , Part II , " p. 67 .
The Spinal Curvature in an Aboriginal Australian .
4si\gt ; as 117 5 , the prominence of the lumbar curve exceeds that found in the European spine .
3 .
In living Bushmen the lumbo-sacral u ensellure " is much more marked than in the European .
My views upon this point were expressed as follows :\#151 ; " From the differences exhibited by the lumbo-vertebral index , some might be inclined to argue that the European had assumed the erect attitude at a period antecedent to the low races .
Such a deduction would be altogether untenable .
The difference in the form-adaptation of the lumbar bodies with reference to the curve in a European and in a low race can easily be explained when we reflect upon the difference in their habits .
The European , who leads a life which rarely necessitates his forsaking the erect attitude except as an intermittent occurrence , and then for short periods , has sacrificed In the lumbar part of the vertebral column flexibility for stability .
It is evident that the deeper the bodies of the vertebrae grow in front the more permanent , stable , and fixed the lumbar curve will become , and the more restricted will be the power of bending forwards at this region of the spine .
The savage in whose daily life agility and suppleness of body are of so great an account , who is frequently called upon to ptirsue game in a prone position , and climb trees in search of fruit , preserves the pithecoid condition of vertebrae in the lumbar region , and on account of this a superior flexibility of the spine must result . . .
There is no reason to suppose that this condition is associated with a smaller degree of curvature in this region .
" Still in the absence of fresh spines of the lower races , where the lumbar region , composed of combined vertebral bodies and intervertebral disks , could be examined , proof positive upon the degree and character of the lumbar curve was wanting .
For more than three years I have made every endeavour to obtain the vertebral column of a native Australian , Negro , Andaman , or Bushman .
Through the kindness of my friend Professor T. P. Anderson Stuart , of Sydney University , I have at last succeeded in securing the spine of an Australian girl , aged sixteen .
It was sent in a zinc box , in which it was packed with great skill and care .
The curvatures were therefore in no way interfered with , and it arrived in a very perfect condition .
The erector muscles had been partially removed , but not to such an extent as to produce any material alteration in the flexures .
The flatness of the dorsal curvature and the strongly marked cervical curve were the points in the Australian spine which on cursory examination chiefly attracted attention .
In other respects it was apparently little different from the vertebral column of a uropean .
The strong backward bend of the cervical part was perhaps the most striking feature .
The flexibility of this region of e spine and the strength and elasticity of the ligamenta subflava The Spinal Curvature in an Aboriginal Australian .
491 were very remarkable , and altogether confirmed the view which I had formerly expressed upon this point from an examination of the cervical neural spines of the native Australian.* In order that precise information regarding the curvatures might be acquired , the spine was thoroughly frozen , and then divided in the mesial plane with a saw .
A very successful section was obtained , and when the spine was still in the frozen condition , with all its parts immovably fixed , a tracing was taken of each cut surface , and the intervertebral disks and vertebral bodies were measured .
At intervals the spine was returned to the freezing mixture , so as to keep it thoroughly consolidated until all the details required were ascertained .
In the accompanying woodcut the tracing of the spine section , reduced by photography , is represented .
Similar tracings taken from the spines of an Irish female , aged thirty-five , and a young female Chimpanzee , reduced to a corresponding size , are placed on either side of the Australian spine for purposes of comparison .
The flatness of the dorsal curve in the Australian is very pronounced , and is more marked than in the Chimpanzee , in which both of the primary curvatures ( dorsal and sacral ) are notably deficient .
It further resembles the Chimpanzee in the high degree of cervical curvature which it exhibits .
Points of Inflexion.\#151 ; In determining these we have not examined the curvature formed by the anterior face of the vertebral column .
The true curvature of the vertebral column is that of its axis , and it is this that we have tested .
The central points ot the bodies of the vertebra ?
and of the intervertebral disks were carefully ascertained , and a mean curve was drawn through them .
In European spines the point at which each curve gives place to that which succeeds it is very constant , and is not affected , so far as my observations go , by the degree of curvature in the different regions .
The cervico-dorsal point of inflexion in the European is situated in the disk between the second and third dorsal vertebra ? .
The lumbo-dorsal point of inflexion in the female is placed in the body of the twelfth dorsal vertebra , but iu the male it is a little lower down .
The lumbar curve gives place to the sacral curve at a point in the lumbo-sacral disk .
In the Australian spine a greater portion of the dorsal column is involved in the dorsal curve .
Above , this curvature only gives way to the cervical convexity in the disk between the first and second dorsal vertebrae , whilst below it includes the last dorsal vertebra , as in the European male , and the change to the lumbar convexity is effected in the dorso-lumbar disk .
These are points of comparatively trifling importance .
The great distinction between the Australian and European spine is found in the * i Journal of Anatomy and Physiology July , 188b .
492 Dr. D. J. Cunningham .
manner in which the lumbar convexity gives place to the sacral con-cavity .
In the European this takes place in the lumbo-sacral disk of cartilage , and is sharp and sudden , forming a very decided angle .
In the Australian it is so gradual and undecided that in the first instance I sketched the lumbar curve so as to include the first sacral vertebra .
Such a curve line , however , falls about 1 mm. behind the central point of the lumbo-sacral disk .
It is best therefore to consider that the lumbar curve , as in the European , ends in that disk .
But the sacral concavity does not begin at once .
If the central points of the lumbosacral disk , the first sacral vertebra , and the first sacral disk be joined , it will be found that they lie in a straight line , and that the sacral concavity only begins in the first sacral disk .
The close association which is thus established between the first piece of the sacrum and the lumbar column is very largely due to the oblique position which is assumed by the last lumbar vertebra .
This is a striking peculiarity , and constitutes perhaps one of the most characteristic features of the Australian spine .
In my " Cunningham Memoir " I describe a European spine , in which the first sacral vertebra is actually included in the lumbar curve , but this was brought about in a different manner .
It was not due to a shifting of the last lumbar vertebra , but to a shifting of the first sacral element which had separated itself from its neighbours , and thus become associated with the lumbar column .
A glance at the tracing of the Australian spine is sufficient to show that the lumbar column is constructed upon principles which are calculated to render it exceedingly flexible and elastic .
WhaaJ^B look at the corresponding region of the European an impression 0 great stability is conveyed to the mind .
^ t .
In the Chimpanzee , the cervico-dOrsal point of inflexion , as European , is placed in the disk between the second and third dortW vertebrae .
In the spine figured in fig. 1 the dorsal and lumbar axial curves meet in the central point of the twelfth dorsal vertebra , but in the other specimens which I have examined , the point of demarcaw|j| between these curves corresponded to the central point of the ittwi vertebral disk between the twelfth and thirteenth dorsal vertebra* .
The flatter dorsal curve of the Australian therefore involves a greater length of the vertebral column than the corresponding deeper cuW in the Chimpanzee and European .
^ But , further , the lumbar axial curve in the Chimpanzee t one or two of the sacral vertebrae .
In the spine of the female \gt ; panzee figured in the text , the first and second sacral vertebrffij^ included , but in other specimens examined , only the first element falls into the line of the lumbar curve .
An important tion is thus established by the Australian spine , in which the sacral vertebra has just escaped being included in .the axial curv The Spinal Curvature in an Aboriginal Australian .
493 the lumbar region , and occupies a place which , renders it impossible to associate it either with the curve above or the curve below .
In the Chimpanzee the first sacral vertebra is brought into association with the lumbar region by the slight degree of backward inclination of the sacrum ; but another factor also comes into play , although to a much less extent , and that is the oblique position of the last lumbar vertebra .
Let us examine these two factors which exercise so marked an influence in producing this modification of the curvature in the Australian and Chimpanzee spines .
The sacro-vertebral angle can be tested in a variety of ways , but the most convenient method is to prolong the axis lines of the last lumbar and first sacral vertebrae , and determine the angle which is formed at the point of intersection .
In the spines of five European females the average angle thus obtained was 137 ' 40 ' .
But I am inclined to think that in typical cases the angle in question is not so open .
In the young female figured in the text , it is only 117 ' 20 ' ; whilst in the Australian it was determined to be 141 ' .
In the young Chimpanzee , on the other hand , it attains a magnitude of 166 ' .
But before coming to a definite decision upon this point , it is well to test the matter in another way .
This is rendered necessary by the peculiar position of the last lumbar vertebra in the Australian and also , but to a less degree , in the Chimpanzee .
Let us take the axis line of the fourth lumbar vertebra in the human spines , and the third lumbar or corresponding vertebra in the Chimpanzee , and note the angle which is formed by the intersection of this by the axis line of the first sacral vertebra .
The angles obtained by this method for the three spines figured are :\#151 ; European .
Australian .
Chimpanzee .
114 ' 120c 156 ' So far , then , as it is possible to draw a conclusion from one spine , we may say that the sacral obliquity in the Australian is not so marked as in the European .
At the same time it is right to state that I have examined individual European spines which exhibited a sacro-vertebral angle as open if not more so than that of the Australian .
In these cases , however , special causes existed for this small degree of sacral obliquity .
The peculiar position occupied by the last lumbar vertebra in the Australian can be rendered evident by ascertaining the angle which is formed by the intersection of its axis line by the axis line of the fourth lumbar vertebra .
The following are the angles thus determined :\#151 ; European .
173* Australian .
163 ' 494 Dr. D. J. Cunningham .
It is this obliquity of the last lumbar vertebra in the Australian which has the effect of so nearly placing the first sacral vertebra in the line of the axial lumbar curve .
In Troglodytes the last lumbar vertebra* is closely associated with the sacrum .
This constitutes a striking character of the column when seen in mesial section .
At first sight the vertebra in question appears to belong to the sacrum .
The intervertebral disk which intervenes is very thin ; indeed , in a young specimen , it is not much thicker than those interposed between the sacral elements , and it eannot be compared for a moment with the thick pads between the lumbar vertebrae .
This intimacy of relationship is still further borne out by the examination of the macerated skeleton , because it is extremely common to find the last lumbar vertebra either fixed to the sacrum by osseous union , or taking on sacral characters by the assumption of the characteristic sacral alee or rib elements .
Of the twelve skeletons of Troglodytes , in which the lumbo-sacral region is mentioned in the catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in England , seven are described as presenting this peculiarity .
In the European and in the Australian , the last lumbar vertebra is separated from the sacrum by a thick pad of intervertebral substance .
Nevertheless , we occasionally find in the human spine the last lumbar vertebra either fused to the sacrum or developing on one or both sides a sacral ala .
Professor Kollman , of Basel , has recently exhibited at the Anatomische Gesellschaft at Wurzburg ( May , 1888 ) , a series of specimens in which the different gradations of this anomaly were illustrated.^ During the last four or five years about seventy-five sacra and last lumbar vertebrae have been examined in the macerated state in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College .
Prom these I have obtained one specimen in which the fusion between the last lumbar and first sacral vertebrae is almost complete , and three fifth lumbar vertebrae with a sacral ala developed on one or both sides .
We have little information on this point in so far as the spines of the low races are concerned ; but it is somewhat significant that in five Australian and in two Andaman skeletons , Sir William Turner J should have recorded the occurrence of three fifth lumbar vertebrae with sacral alae developed upon their transverse * The vertebral formula being considered as C7 , I)13 , L4 , S5 , C4 .
T ince writing the above , I have received a letter from Professor Kollman upon t s subject .
He informs me that he observed the anomaly in eight out of forty-ve specimens which he examined .
In three cases the assimilation was comply\#174 ; ( i.e. , on both sides ) , and in the remaining five it was confined to one side .
lh3 specimens were all derived from European skeletons .
t ' Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. " Challenger , " Part XLVII .
' " Keport on the Human Skeletons , Part II .
" The Spinal Curvature in an Aboriginal Australian .
495 processes .
It is possible , therefore , that the tendency to assume sacral characters is more marked in the last lumbar vertebra of the Australian than of the European.* Lumbar Curve.\#151 ; A single glance at the tracing obtained from the mesial section of the Australian spine , and which has been reproduced in fig. 1 , will be sufficient to dissipate any doubt that may be remaining regarding the presence of a lumbar convexity in the vertebral column of this race .
Not only does it exist , but it is present in a very pronounced form .
Sir William Turner , who has studied the lumbar vertebrae of several of the low races , has endeavoured to arrive at the proper lumbar curvature by careful articulation of the vertebrae .
The upper border of the superior articular facet of the vertebra below was placed in the same transverse plane as the upper border of the inferior articular facet of the vertebra above .
" !
In the Australian he was led to believe that above the level of the lower border of the fourth lumbar vertebra the lumbar column was faintly concave forwards .
At the same time he carefully guards himself by insisting that true and trustworthy evidence upon this point can only be acquired by the actual examination of the fresh spine .
A convenient although a somewhat arbitrary way of determining the degree of prominence in the lumbar region in sectional tracings of the spine is to draw a straight line from the anterior extremity of the lower surface of the last lumbar vertebra to the anterior end of the upper surface of the first lumbar vertebra ( vide fig. 1 ) .
By the eye we can readily judge the amount of projection which lies in front of this line in the different tracings , but for accurate comparison it is advisable to formulate an index .
This can be done by taking the length of the lumbar column ( measured from the centre of the upper surface of the first lumbar vertebraj to the centre of the lower surface of the last lumbar vertebra ) , as the standard and equivalent to 100 , and then comparing it with the distance between the intersecting line and the point of greatest prominence .
A high index will indicate a strongly pronounced curve , and a low index a feeble degree of curvature .
The indices of the lumbar curve ascertained in this way from the three tracings in fig. 1 are the following :\#151 ; European .
Australian .
Chimpanzee .
97 9-6 10*0 * In twelve Australian skeletons which I have recently examined in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , England , the condition is only present in one specimen .
+ 4 Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. " Challenger , " Part XLVII , * \amp ; c. $ The vertebra , corresponding to the first lumbar vertebra of Man in the Chim* panzee , is the thirteenth dorsal .
Dr. D. J. Cunningham .
The European and the Australian present to all intents and purposes an equal degree of prominence .
The Chimpanzee exceeds them both in this respect .
It may be well to state that the index expressed by the spine of the European closely corresponds with what I have found to be the average ( 9 5 ) for Irish females .
On the other hand , when we consider the long period required for the full development and thorough consolidation of the lumbar curve in the human spine , we are forced to admit that it is highly improbable that the index obtained for the Australian expresses the average degree of curvature for that race .
The girl from which it was taken was said to be sixteen years old , and the condition of the epiphyses , \amp ; c. , afforded abundant evidence that the age had not been overstated .
Now Balandin , * who has examined the vertebral column in different subjects at the tenth , twelfth , sixteenth , and twentieth year , assures us that in none of these has he found consolidation of the lumbar curve .
He considers that it does not become absolutely stable until adult life .
Unfortunately we do not possess a sufficient number of tracings of mesial sections of the young spine to come to a decided opinion upon this point ; but in the beautiful drawing which is given by Dr. Symingtonf of such a section of a girl , aged thirteen , the lumbar curve is very feebly marked .
I am inclined to consider , therefore , that further investigation will probably show that the c arve index of the Australian girl is slightly below the adult st andard .
The investigations which I carried out upon living Bushmen , and which are recorded in my " Cunningham Memoir , " certainly seemed to indicate that in that race , at any rate , the lumbar curve in the erect attitude is in excess of what we find in the European .
Of course the greater flexibility which I believe the spines of the black races possess would tend to exaggerate the curve in the standing posture , and at the same time produce the opposite effect when the spine was relieved from its superincumbent burden .
In the Australian spine the point of greatest projection in front of the intersecting line which we have used to determine the degree of lumbar prominence is the anterior border of the upper surface of the fourth lumbar vertebra .
This corresponds with what we find in the European male , but in the European female the most projecting point is placed higher , and is formed by the anterior border of the lower surface of the third lumbar vertebra .
But the true summit of the lumbar curve is the point of maximum axial curvature , and in the Australian this is situated in the centre of the fourth lumbar vertebra .
Again this is identical with what we observe in the European male , * " Beitr\amp ; ge liber die Entstehung der physiologischen Kriimmung der Wirbels\amp ; _e beim Menschen .
" Virchow 's * Archiv for Patholog .
Anat .
und Physiol. , vol. \gt ; 1873 .
t ' The Anatomy of the Child , ' Edinburgh .
The Spinal Curvature in an Aboriginal Australian .
497 but in the European female the summit of the axial curve is placed in the disk , between the third and fourth lumbar vertebras .
In two particulars , then , the Australian spine resembles the vertebral column of a European male more than that of a European female , viz. , in the point of maximum curvature in the lumbar region , and in the fact that the curvature does not include the last dorsal vertebra .
The youth of the girl from which it was taken may account for these peculiarities : the spine may not have had time to acquire its special sexual characters , or its full degree of lumbar curvature .
It is self-evident that when a curve is established in a region where the vertebral bodies are not moulded in accordance with it , the production of the curvature must be due to the shape of the intervertebral disks .
The difference in height between the anterior and posterior surfaces of the European lumbar vertebrae ( with the exception of the fifth ) is so slight that it can have little influence in determining the curve in this region .
The difference is to be regarded as the consequence and not as the cause of the curve .
The lumbar convexity is mainly produced by the intervertebral disks , and when we reflect upon the manner in which the curvature is called into existence , * we can readily understand why this should be so .
In the Australian spine the lumbar prominence is produced entirely by the intervertebral disks .
The vertebral bodies , with the single exception of the fifth , are fashioned in a manner unfavourable to the production of a curve of which the convexity is directed forwards .
The table ( pp. 498\#151 ; 9 ) gives the proportions and indices of the lumbar vertebrae and intervertebral disks in the Australian and European spines figured in the text , and also for purposes of comparison the indices of the same parts in four additional European spines .
The index of the lumbar vertebrae in the Australian girl ( 101'4 ) is low when we consider that for this race the average index is 107*8 .
But this average has been largely obtained from males , and there is every reason to believe that the index of the female is very considerably below this .
The four female Australian spines which I measured when preparing my " Cunningham Memoir , " gave an average lumbo-vertebral index of 108*1 , and of these one had an index of 100*9 , and another an index so low as 96*7 .
To all intents and purposes , therefore , the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae in the spine of the Australian girl are neutral in so far as the production of a lumbar curve is concerned .
The intervertebral disks are the parts which determine the curvature , and in conformity with this they present the low index of 49*5 .
A very special feature in this spine is the small amount of depth exhibited by the lumbar disks posteriorly .
It is a character which at once appeals to the eye when the tracing of the mesial section is examined .
The two disks which contribute most largely * ' Cunningham Memoir , ' No. 2 , Roy .
Irish Acad. , p. 78 .
Dr. D. J. Cunningham , Indices of the Vertebral Bodies and Intervertebral Disks of the Lumbar Column .
Australian Spine .
Actual depth , in millimetres .
Actual depth in millimetres .
Yertebral bodies .
Front .
Back .
Index .
Inter- vertebral disks .
Front .
Back .
Index .
j 23#0 25 108 2 i 4*5 3-5 77*7 XI 24*0 25 104-1 ii 6*0 3-0 50*0 III^ 25 -0 26 104 -0 m 8*5 4*5 53*0 1Y 26 *5 27 101 *8 IY 14*0 4-0 28*6 Y 270 24 88-8 Y 13 0 5 0 38*4 101 *4 49*5 European Spine ( fig. 1 ) .
Actual depth in millimetres .
Actual depth in millimetres .
Yertebral bodies .
Front .
Back .
Index .
Inter-j vertebral disks .
Front .
Back .
Index .
I ... ... 24-0 23-5 97*9 I 8 7 87*5 II 24*5 24*5 100 -o II ... ... 10 9 90*0 Ill 25-0 23 0 920 HI 11 8 72*7 IV 26-0 23 0 88 *4 IY 10 9 90*0 Y 26-0 20-0 76 -9 Y 13 8 61*5 91 *0 80*3 The Spinal Curvature in an Aboriginal Australian .
499 Four Irish Spines ( two Males and two Females ) .
Vertebral bodies .
Index .
Intervertebral disks .
Index .
x t 107*7 i 65*2 n 100 *5 ii 80*0 HI 95*2 m 68*0 IV 94*4 IV ... .
78*2 v 83*7 .
y 37*0 96*3 65*6 In this table the indices of the intervertebral disks have been calculated in the same manner as those of the vertebral bodies .
The anterior vertical depth in each case has been taken as the standard , and equal to 100 .
By multiplying the post * .
rior vertical diameter by 100 and dividing the result by the anterior vertical diameter , the indices have been arrived at .
to the curve are the fourth and fifth .
The indices of these are 28*6 and 38*4 respectively .
The European spine which we have selected for comparison with the Australian spine also presents a somewhat low lumbo-vertebral index , viz. , 91*0 .
The intervertebral index is consequently higher Fig. 2 .
EUROPEAN 500 Dr. D. J. Cunningham .
than is usually the case .
Perhaps the average which is given in the table for the four Irish spines more nearly expresses the relative share taken by vertebral bodies and intervertebral disks in the production of the curve .
In these the average lumbo-vertebral index is 96 3 and the average intervertebral index 65'6 .
In analysing the composition of the axial curve in the lumbar region of the Australian spine , I have had the advantage of the advice and assistance of my friend and colleague Professor Alexander , of the Engineering School in Trinity College , Dublin .
The drawings which illustrate this point were executed by him .
The axial lumbar curve was found to be composed of the segments pf three circles .
Thus the portion of the curve which traverses the central points of the fifth lumbar vertebra and of the disk immediately above and below it , constitutes one arc ; the central points of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae , and of the third and fourth intervertebral disks , are traversed by the arc of a second and larger circle ; whilst the line passing through the central points of the dorso-lumbar disk and of the first , second , and third lumbar vertebrae with the intervening disks , forms the segment of a third and still larger circle .
Segments of three circles can also be detected in the axial lumbar curve of the European , hut the parts entering into the formation of these are different .
The fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae with the fourth and fifth disks are ranged in the arc of the lowest and smallest circle ; the second , third , and fourth lumbar vertebrae with the two intervening disks , constitute the segment of another circle ; whilst the twelfth dorsal vertebra and the first and second lumbar vertebrae , with the interposed disks , form the segment of a third circle .
As I have explained in my " Cunningham Memoir , " where I have entered somewhat fully into this point , the composition of the different arcs of the axial curve is one into which many fallacies may creep .
Slight inaccuracies in the tracing or a deviation from the mesial plane in sawing the spine will tend to vitiate the results .
The radii of the three arcs which build up the axial lumbar curve present very different lengths .
In the lower part of the lumbar column of the Australian the bend is much sharper and more sudden than in the European .
This is rendered evident when the radii or the two lowest arcs are compared with each other .
Again , the highest segment in the European shows very little deviation from a straight line .
It presents a radius more than twice the length of the highest segment in the Australian spine .
In the European the lumbar curve is more uniform and gradual throughout .
The lengths of the radii of the different arcs of the two spines were ascertained to be as follows : \#151 ; The Spinal Curvature in an Aboriginal Australian .
501 Australian .
- European.^ Lowest arc 2J in .
54 in .
Intermediate arc . . .
10J " 10\#163 ; " Highest arc .
24 " 58 " The interposition of a straight piece between the lumbar and sacral curves of the Australian spine is well seen in fig. 2 .
It certainly offers in this respect a marked contrast to the European , in which the sacral curve breaks off at once from the lumbar curve .
Relative Lengths of the different Regions of the Vertebral Column of the Australian.\#151 ; Aeby* has called attention to the fact that in the two sexes , and at different periods of life , remarkable differences are found in the relative lengths of the different regions of the vertebral column .
The method which we have adopted for ascertaining the degree and quality of the spinal curvature affords us at the same time a very accurate means of comparing the Australian with the European from this point of view .
The measurements were made along the fore surface of the spine , and the results obtained showed that the Australian spine corresponds in this respect in the closest manner with the vertebral column of the adult European female .
Its total length from the base of the sacrum to the tip of the-odontoid process was 526 mm. The cervical region measured 112 mm. , the dorsal region 241 mm. , and the lumbar region 173 mm. In order that we may compare the relative length of each of these regions with what we find in the European , let us regard the fore surface of the movable column as being equal to 100 .
The following table shows the close similarity which exists in this respect between the Australian girl and the adult European female :\#151 ; Fore Surface of Spine from tip of Odontoid Process to Base of Sacrum = 100 .
Australian girl , aged 16 .
Average of five adult European females , spines measured in the frozen condition .
16 years old girl ( European ) .
( According to Aeby .
) Cervical region ... .
21 -3 216 21-6 Dorsal region ... . .
45 -8 45 *8 46 *9 \gt ; Lumbar region .
... 32 '9 32*8 31 *6 Die Altersverscbiedenheiten der menschliclien Wirbelsaule .
" ' Archiv fur Anat .
und Entwick .
' 1879 .
Dr. D. J. Cunningham .
In the above table , I have also introduced the proportions which Aeby gives for the sixteen-year-old girl .
It is curious that the Australian girl should approximate more nearly the adult European female .
Proportion of Bone and Cartilage in the Lumbar Region of the Spine .
__When the tracings which are reproduced _ in fig. 1 are closely examined , it becomes apparent that in the lumbar region the constituent elements , viz. , the bones and the intervertebral disks , are not present in corresponding proportions in the different spines .
The vertical diameters of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae differ very appreciably in the three spines , and with this there is a difference in the thickness of the intervertebral disks .
In order that we may the more easily contrast the spines from this point of view , I have formulated an index which may be termed the lumbar index .
In calculating this , the sagittal diameter measured from the centre of the posterior face to the centre of the anterior face of the vertebral body is taken as the standard and equal to 100 .
The proportion between this diameter and the vertical diameter , measured from the ceutre of the upper surface to the centre of the lower surface of the vertebral body , can thus be readily expressed .
A high index will indicate a long vertebral body ; a low index , on the other hand , will indicate a short vertebral body .
In the table which follows I have introduced the Baboon , Macaque , and Orang , with the view of enabling us to decide whether or not the difference exhibited in the sagitto-vertical lumbar index of the European , Australian , and Chimpanzee is one from which any important deduction may be drawn .
Two points are rendered very manifest by the above figures , viz. , ( 1 ) , that there is a rapid and decided increase in the length of the lumbar vertebral bodies as we pass from the European , through the Australian , Chimpanzee , and Baboon to the Macaque ; and ( 2 ) , that as the bones elongate the cartilaginous disks become shortened .
The difference in relative length of the lumbar vertebr\#174 ; in the Eui'opean and Australian is very marked , the sagitto-vertical index of the former being 80"9 , and of the latter 87'0 .
It must be borne in mind , however , that I have only had an opportunity of examining the one Australian.* Again , it is remarkable that the Orang in the height of its vertebr\#174 ; should show such a decided deviation from other Apes , and approach so closely to Man .
A mesial section through the Orang renders this character apparent to the eye.f In estimating the vertical depth of both vertebral bodies and inter- * There are striking sexual differences in this respect .
In the male , the bool\#174 ; 8 of the vertebrae are more compressed .
Eight skeletons of female Andaman Islan afforded a sagitto-vertical lumbar index of 90'4 .
f ' Cunningham Memoir , ' No. 2 , Plate III , Royal Irish Academy .
,1 Index of the Lower Fire Movable Vertebrae : also the Proportion of Bone and Carti corresponding Section of the Vertebral Column .
The Spinal Curvature in an Aboriginal Australian .
503 \#169 ; rd \lt ; x\gt ; to c3 \lt ; 3 .43 I i One Orang .
CO CD p ^ p CO OS CO 1\gt ; * CD l\gt ; 00 00 X\gt ; 00 81-9 9 9 CO N 1\gt ; \lt ; N One Maeacus rhesus .
rH CO ^ \#169 ; O rH CD tF 05 \#169 ; tF \lt ; M tF rH \#169 ; rH \#187 ; H rH rH rH 126-2 tF p CO CD 00 rH One Macacus nemestrinus .
113 0 126 6 126-6 126 -6 117-4 122 0 O O rH 05 00 rH One Baboon .
85-7 95-6 100-0 104-5 * 109 -5 99-1 ** co \#169 ; 05 00 rH Three Chimpan- zees .
90-5 89-9 89 8 85-4 100 2 $ rH p \lt ; i\gt ; CO i\gt ; \lt ; M | Australian girl- 82-3 95*6 88-0 88 -0 82 1 O 00 HP\#187 ; p 05 O CD CO Four European females .
*\gt ; .
Tjl rH C\lt ; l D Oi l\gt ; ^ ' oo oo i\gt ; i\gt ; i\gt ; C5 $ CO 4 ?
lO CD CO i ii in IV V General index Bone Cartilage . .
^ J _/ Five lower movable vertebrae Proportion of bone and^| cartilage in the lumbar column .
Lumbar column measured along its axial line = 100 .
^ w* S 2 sfj S -i | -2 |j3-1 .a il\gt ; J3 S3 \#163 ; .
g ^ *bb \#171 ; ll 33 T3 o rrj \lt ; D 03 *** s-|^s \#171 ; S a VOL. XLY , \#166 ; 5 .a 'J \#174 ; M \#174 ; '"oJ c8 0\gt ; O C5 S .S OD S * ^ T\#187 ; jk -g U \#166 ; Mi* O d A\#174 ; rD S \#169 ; _0 r\#151 ; H c 0Q ^ if * s l\#187 ; J8 \#163 ; j2 Yii fill .SSI'S * * S-S \#151 ; \#163 ; ?
a 5 * 'Sd-S " 2 X*SZ 8Sg*B ml 5 f'S-'a 1 .1 a 2 'i II Ilf Ifltl b\#163 ; \lt ; d \#171 ; j a o w .\gt ; - .
.\#166 ; S^2 8 \amp ; ,3 ^ ^ \lt ; D bp s| ; \#163 ; l| 3 H *g 2 a s S\lt ; 2 2 L 504 ' Mr. L. F. Yernon-Harcourt .
vertebral disks , the measurements were made along the axial line of the column .
The spines were divided in the mesial plane when thoroughly frozen , so that there was no reduction in the depth of the cartilaginous disks through the bulging out of their central soft portions .
In the European we find the largest proportion of cartilage in the construction of the lumbar region .
In four female spines the average was found to be 35*7 per cent , cartilage to 643 per cent , bone.* In the Australian the amount of cartilage is reduced in conformity with the lengthening of the vertebral bodies ; the proportion is 306 per cent , cartilage to 604 per cent. bone .
In the Apes , a still further reduction in the amount of cartilage is manifested ; even in the Orang with vertebrae proportionally as short as those of a European , the amount df cartilage in the lumbar part of the spine is relatively much less , viz. , in the European 35*7 per cent. , and in the Orang 27 per cent. In the Chimpanzee , the marked fall in the amount of cartilage is in a measure due to the extremely thin disk which intervenes between the last lumbar vertebra and the base of the sacrum .
In the erect attitude of Man the greater amount of cartilage lessens the shocks transmitted upwards through the column .
In the prone or semi-prone position of the trunk the same provision is not so necessary .
" The Principles of training Rivers through Tidal Estuaries , as illustrated by Investigations into the Methods ot improving the Navigation Channels of the Estuary of the .
Seine .
" By Leveson Francis Yernon-Harcourt , M.A. , M.Inst .
C.E. Communicated by A. Gf .
Yernon-Harcourt , F.R.S. Received January 19 , \#151 ; Read February 7 , 1889 .
( Plates 2\#151 ; 4 .
) The conditions affecting the training of rivers in the non-tidal portions of their course by jetties , or rubble embankments designated as training walls , are well understood .
Training walls substitute a straightened uniform channel for irregularities and varying widths , improving the flow of the current and rendering it uniform , so that scour occurs in the shallow , narrowed portions , and more uniformity * Aeby gives the proportion of bone and cartilage in the different regions of European spine at different ages , but as he measured the front aspect only of * vertebrae and disks , his results cannot be compared with the above .
In front behind the vertical diameters of the disks and vertebral bodies are modified by spinal curvatures .
To obtain the most accurate information regarding the reft proportion of bone and cartilage in a region , the different elements slioul un doubtedly be measured along the axial curve .

