VI .
An Explication of the Experiment made in May 1735 , as a farther Confirmation of what was said in a Paper given in January 30 , 1734-5 .
to account for the Appearance of the horizontal Moon seeming larger than when higher .
By the Same .
HAVING made an Experiment with three Ivory Balls for Confirmation of what I had advanced , namely , that the Deception arises from our judging the horizontal Moon to be much farther than it is ; some Gentlemen of the Society were convinced by the Experiment , but others were not ; which obliges me to give this further Account of it , that People may judge of the Thing in Writing , which could not be so well attended to in the Hurry of several Persons viewing the Experiment in Haste .
1 .
Two equal Ivory Balls were set one beyond another in respect of the Eye at E , namely , AB at 20 Feet Distance from the Eye , and CD at 40 .
2 .
It is certain , by the Rules of Optics , that the Eye at E or F will see the Ball CD under an Angle but half as big as it sees the Ball A B ; that is , that the Ball CD must appear no bigger than the Ball op placed by the Side of A B. 3 .
But when looking at the two Balls ( Fig. 6 .
) with the naked Eye in an open Room , we consider that CD is as far again from the Eye as A B , we judge it to be as big as A B , ( as it really is ) notwithstanding it subtends an Angle but of half the Bigness .
4 .
Now if , unknown to the Spectator , ( or while he turns his Back ) the Ball CD be taken away , and another Ball op of half the Diameter be placed in the same Line , but as near again , at the Side of A B , the Spectator thinking this last Ball to be at the Place of C D , must judge it to be as big as C D , because it subtends the very same Angle as CD did before .
It follows therefore-That if a Ball be imagined to be as far again as it really is , we make such an Allowance for that imagined Distance , that we judge it to be as big again as it is , notwithstanding that the Angle under which we see it , is no greater , than when we look at it , knowing its real Distance .
For this Reason the Moon looks bigger in the Horizon , and near it , than at a considerable Height , or at the Zenith : Because it being a common Prejudice to imagine that Part of the Sky much nearer to us which is at the Zenith , than that Part towards the Horizon ; when we see the Moon at the Horizon , we suppose it much farther ; therefore as it subtends the same Angle ( or nearly the same Angle ) as when at the Zenith , we imagine it so much bigger as we suppose its Distance greater .
The Reason why this Experiment is hard to make , is because the Light from the Ball op is too strongly reflected on account of its Nearness ; but if we could give it so little Light as to look no brighter than the Ball C D , it would deceive every body .
I have made the Experiment so as to deceive such as were not very long-sighted ; but I must confess I have found it very hard to deceive those who see at a great Distance ; tho ' they would all be deceived , if the Distances were of 300 or 600 Foot .
Now in the Case of the Moon , the Deceit is helped , because the Vapours , thro ' which we see it when low , take away of its Brightness , and therefore have the same Effect as would ( or does ) happen in the Experiment , when the Light of the Ball op strikes the Eye no stronger than the Light of the Ball

