]\gt ; Prof. Cayley on Prepotentials .
-J Thanks were given to the tors .
William Archer , anes Risdon Bennett , M.D. ietrich Brandis , Ph. D. , F$.L.S .
ames Caird , C.B. Prof. John Casey , LL. D. lugust Dupre ' , Ph. D. , F.C.S. ames Geilrie , F.R.S.E. fames Whitbread Lee isher , bolleau lrlien ] Klein , ] } E. nkester , George , Capt. 1 Robert Stirling lVilliamCh ttndlel .
Robel.ts , .
D. Scott , June 10 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON , President , in the Chair .
The Presents receiyed were laid the ) rdered f them .
Dr. Risdon Beonett , Mr. mes Jttllcs Lee isher , Mr. J. Henuesscy , Chandler Roberts , Henly Tonng cotc Scolt were admitted into the The following Papers 11 ere reffi:\mdash ; I. ' A bIemoir on \ldquo ; By Prof. .R.S .
Apri18 , 187 ( Abstract .
) The present relat ; s of the ppearing 1 .
, number of meters ( , ] of where and only on the .
gral , in to the , is to ) ) case to bo ' I throughout } : rcg dimensional space , } ] of ; a of being of ] ) ) XXIII .
448 Prof. Cayley on Prepotentials .
[ June point , the corresponding density is , a given function , and the element of mass exerts on the force proportional to the of distance .
The integration is extend so as to lclude the wholc { ttracting m the is said to represent t prepotential of the mass in regard to the poi .
particulal .
case , the force is the of the , and the integral represents the potential in sense of vord .
The element of volume is usually eithel ' the clement sol spatinl or volume ' else the cleme superficial dimellsioJlal ) volume .
In when the surfa dimensioJlal locus ) , the ( s-dimellsional ) plane , the superfici element .
The cases of a -dimensional volur are in the plesent 1nemoir considered only incidentally .
It is necess ' to remark the notion of density is depetldent on the dime sionality of the element of volumo : in passing di , to distribution , of fact if , in order to connect the the sp distribution as made ovel ' an indefinitely thin lnyer stratu bounded by the , so at element the surface normal thickness is , where is a function of the coordinates the element , the is , and the element of ma ; and then c the signification of , so to denotc by it product , the expression for the element of becomcs , which is the formula ] the cnse of the superficial ibution .
The space or over which the distribution extends may of ns the spnce or ; so the density is not portion of the space or if the bc such that the becomcs for any point or locus of the rial space or , then such p or locus , considel.ed as an portion of spacc , mfty be excluded from egard not to he or surface .
It is allo ) frequcntly conveJlient , to a function , altle the materinl sllrffice , { vlug else the vahne ; ftlld this so , the tegrfttion as plensc beyond spnce facc ( but always to the of ] atel .
lrfnce)\mdash ; for inst , in cnsc of a spatinl ition , over the when spnce ; the cnse of perficial distributio of th -dimonsiollal surface of ) hich the surffi cabes of it , mess the coJltrnry is express Prof. Cayley ) epotentials .
tated , assumed that the atbracted does lie on the ; to make it do so is , in fact , .
As to solid ltegrals , the cases where the attl ncted point is not , is , in the poce may be regarded as cases of COOl'dinate genel.ftlity ; ) egard the latter one the case , dednciug the former from by supposing the density at the attracted poiJlt to become The present memoir httS chiefly to ) rincipal C which I call it special , inclnded bolh .
these A. The -plane CRSC ; ( , but the plane , so that the B. The -plttne so that the integral is C. The case ; , so the is D. The potential-solid It is , in ffie Consid l , called fied hc . . .
therefore ) . . .
450 Prof. Cayley on Prepotentials .
consequently by the integral [ June 1 is by the -plnne ; but the equation is satisfied by the nor , therefore , by the prepotential-solid , or general superficia ] , integral But if , then , stead of the tion , we ; and this is satisfied by and therefore also by Hence it is satisfied by ( tlJe potential-solid integral , provided that the point within the material space : I would rather say thnt the integrnl does tisfy)tion , but of thi ore kereafer ; ( vQnd it is satisfied by ' . . . .
the potential-surface .
The potential-plane integral ( B ) .
ils case of ( C ) , of satisfies the equation .
of the foul .
cases gives rise to hat may be called a distributio1 theorem , 1 iz .
glvell fullctio]l of prescrib ; conditions , but olherwise , then the form of the theorem is the there exists and call bc found an expression for , the density or distr bution matter o ) cr the or surface to which the theorem late , such that the corrcspollding its .
th in 1 and there exists such a distribution over the ] nlle ?
such distribution er en , { in such ibution in isbment , oxhibition in collncxion othe ] .
, of 1876 .
] On the Fossil Mammals Australia .
distribution-theorems is the princip object of tho the memoir contains other which have presellted them ; elves to me in treating the question .
It is to be noticed that the theorem A belongs to Green , being in fact the mental theolem of his memoir 1835 , already referled to .
Theorem , in the particular of tridispace , belongs also to him , iu his ' Esslty on the tion of bfathematical Aualysis to the theolies of ricity #Iagnetism ' ( Nottingham , 1828 ) , being partially ered by Gauss the 1840 ; and theorem , in the same case of tridimellsional pace , to Lejeune-Diriohlet : see bis .
" " moycn genernl dc verifier l'expression du potential rel uIlc m uheterogene , \ldquo ; Crelle , .
xxxii .
pp. 80-84 ( 184C ) .
I refer mole these and other researches by Gauss , cobi , and others in the coLlrse the present ' On the Fossil Mammals of alia .
X. Family : Mandibular and of the leton of Palorchestes , with cvidenccs of Macropus Titan , and Procoptodon By F.R.S. Received May 10 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) In this " " Pal.t\ldquo ; the of md species of Kangaroos tho ) itud .
To the lorchestes A he adds charnctors of the ndible i ndibular teeth , and gives a restoration of tho ] ; the pelvis , , tibia , neum , and principal bones of the hiud foot of this igantic species are described and figured .
Of the authol rehtores Sthenurus he describes and tho luous dentition , and the fore of the ] eull of : of larger species of this genus , lentition are restored .
The \ldquo ; ] of ain bones of the foot in a ffacroPus in sizc ( indicated ) , zltus , in Palorchestes ocoptodo ) Pusio , llapha , and Goliah ) .
} 0I1 { ho charactcr of tl ) ) lI10 ) 'he saltigrade and ) The paper is by for )

