450 Note on Mr. Bateson 's Paper , " Heredity , , " " Note on Mr. Bateson 's Paper , 4 Heredity , Differentiation , and other Conceptions of Biology : a Consideration of Professor Karl Pearson 's Paper " On the Principle of Homotyposis .
" ' " By Karl Pearson , F.RS .
Received and Read February 20 , 1902 .
A paper under the above title by Mr. W. Bateson was read on February 14 , 1901 , and appears on pp. 193\#151 ; 205 of the Society 's i ' Proceedings , ' vol. 69 .
It naturally calls for a reply from me , for \ Mr. Bateson 's criticism attacks the fundamental ideas at the basis of i the long series of papers on " The Mathematical Theory of Evolution " which have been contributed by me to the 4 Transactions ' and 4 Pro- i ceedings ' during the last eight years .
My reply must therefore not only be lengthy , but discuss the validity of the opposed terms and definitions used by the school of evolutionists of which Mr. Bateson is one of the most noteworthy representatives .
Naturally , Mr. Bateson will want a rejoinder , and this might require a counter-rejoinder .
Somewhere , however , the controversy must be ended , or its venue changed .
Without questioning the right of Mr. Bateson to choose the 4 Proceedings ' of the Society for the publication of his adverse criticisms , I must state my own individual opinion that a full discussion of this matter must be long and argumentative , because it goes to the foundation of more than one hypothesis warmly advocated by this or that school of biologists .
I believe that discussions of this kind , highly controversial in character , however much they tend to clear up scientific ideas and enforce rigidity in use of terms , are not contributions to original knowledge , and so are far better carried on elsewhere than in the publications of the Society .
For this reason , I propose to transfer my reply to Mr. Bateson 's criticism to another place .
I hope this brief note may explain to Fellows of the Society that it is through no discourtesy that I animadvert elsewhere on the interesting points which Mr. Bateson has recently brought to their notice .

