On the Origin and Formation of Roots .
In a Letter from Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read February23,1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 169 .
] The object of this paper is to show , that the roots of trees are always generated by the vessels which pass from the cotyledons of the seeds , or from the leaves through the leaf-stalks and bark , and that they never spring immediately from the alburnum .
The radicle , which proceeds from the seed , appears to the author to differ from other roots in its mode of growth , since it elongates , by interstitial increase , like the intervals between the buds in the succulent annual shoot ; but roots , on the contrary , elongate only by new parts added to their extremity , and never by the extension of parts previously formed .
The proper roots , which come first into existence , spring from the point of the radicle ; and since there is at that time no alburnum , it is evident they must arise from some other source .
At first they consist solely of cellular substance , within which cortical vessels are next generated ; by these the alburnum is subsequently deposited , in the form of wedges , meeting in the centre .
If a portion of bark be removed from a vine , in a circle , round the stem , and any wet substance be applied to it , roots are soon emitted from the upper edge of the decorticated space ; and when the alburnum dies so as to obstruct the progress of sap through it , buds are usually protruded from the lower edge , but never from the upper ; the roots deriving their matter from the fluid that descends through the cortical vessels , and buds from the ascending sap .
In some varieties of the apple-tree , Mr. Knight observes , there are many rough excrescences on the trunks and branches , which , under different circumstances , form either buds or roots , and these varieties are accordingly very easily propagated by cuttings .
When such excrescences had begun to form upon some trees of two years old , mould was applied to some of them in the spring , and roots were found to form early in the summer .
But when mould was applied to other trees of the same age and variety , from which the top had been cut at a short distance above the excrescence , no roots were emitted for want of descending sap , but buds were formed instead .
The author observes , that both alburnum and bark contain true sap ; but whether that which descends to form roots differs essentially from that which ascends to form buds , he thinks it nearly impossible to decide : he is , however , much more disposed to attribute the formation of different organs to the different action of the vessels , than to any difference of the fluids from which they are formed .
After alburnum has been formed in the roots , it then has the power of producing buds from its upper extremity , as well as fibrous roots from its lower extremity .
The continuance of the entire root in the state of alburnum , appears owing to moisture ; for if the mould be taken away so as to expose part of a root to the air , that part is subsequently found to contain heart wood .
The formation of buds from the potatoc , beneath the soil , may appear an exception to the general rule respecting buds and roots ; but the author observes , that the tuber differs but little from a branch which has dilated instead of extending itself .
The runners , which give existence to the tubers beneath the soil , are very similar in organization to the stem of the plant ; and if exposed , readily emit leaves , and perform all the functions of the stem ; and , on the other hand , Mr. Knight has shown , in a former memoir , that the buds on any part of the stem may be made to produce tubers similar to those formed beneath the soil ; but he has never , under any circumstances , been able to obtain tubers from the fibrous roots of the plant .
Many naturalists have imagined the fibrous roots of all plants to be of annual duration only , because those of bulbous and tuberous plants certainly are so ; but Mr. Knight observes , that the organization of trees is extremely different ; and he has not found any portion of their roots to be deciduous .

