206 Mr. W. Crookes .
[ May 19 , determination of the intensities of the spot and flame lines , and the heights m the solar atmosphere at which they are visible at tba moment of disappearance and reappearance of the sun .
The spectrum of the lower parts of the corona itself should also be observed with a proper amount of dispersion with instruments affording a \#163 ; m\gt ; a+ quantity of light .
S ^eat I stated some time ago to the Royal Society that the iron lines visible in the arc but not in the spark , in all probability owe their existence among the Fraunhofer lines to an absorption going on in the cooler levels , above the flame and spot regions .
A look at the map will show how important it will be ta adjust a : spectroscope on the lines shown in the figure , and contrast their behaviour with the other twelve adjacent arc lines which are prominent neither ; in spark nor spot , nor flame .
It is to be feared that any \#166 ; observer who attempts to do more than such a restricted piece of work as this will doubt his own results .
The time has arrived when minute observations must take the place of mere general ones .
mu i May 19 , 1881 .
u ' - f THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. William Ewart Gladstone was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; \#166 ; L " On Discontinuous Phosphorescent Spectra in High Vacua/ 5 By William Crookes , F.R.S. Received March 31 , 1881 .
In a paper which I had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society in March , 1879 , * I drew attention to the fact that many substances , when in high vacua and submitted to the molecular discharge by means of an induction coil , emitted phosphorescent light ; and I especially mentioned the phosphorescent sulphides , the diamond , the ruby , and various other forms of alumina , cxystalline and amorphous .
Pure alumina chemically prepared has very strong phosphorescence .
Sulpliate of alumina is dissolved in water , and to it is added an excess * " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 170 .
1881 .
] Discontinuous Phosphorescent Spectra in High Vacua .
207 of solution of ammonia .
The precipitated hydrate of alumina is filtered , washed , ignited , and tested in the molecular stream It phosphoresces of the same crimson colour , and gives the same spectrum ^ Alumina in the form of ruby glows with a full rich red colour , and when examined in the spectroscope the emitted light is seen to be discontinuous .
There is a faint continuous spectrum ending in the red somewhere near the line B ; then a black space , and next an intensely brilliant and sharp red line , to which nearly the whole of the intensity of the coloured glow is due .
The wave-length of this red line , which appears characteristic of this form of alumina , is , as near as I can measure X 689*5 m.m.m. This line coincides with the one described by E. Becquerel as being the most brilliant of the lines in the spectrum of the light of alumina in its various forms , when glowing in the phosphoroscope . . .
, .
This coincidence is of considerable interest , as it shows a relation between the action of molecular impact and of sunlight m producing luminosity .
The phosphorescence induced in a crystal of ruby by the molecular discharge is not superficial , but the light comes from the interior of the crystal , and is profoundly modified according as its^ direction of vibration corresponds or makes an angle with the axis oi the crystal , being quenched in certain directions by a Kicol prism .
Sunlight falling on the ruby crystal produces the same optical phenomena .
The light is internally emitted , and on analysis by a prism , is seen to consist essentially of the one brilliant crimson line , X 689*5 .
This fact may account for the extraordinary brilliancy of the ruby , which makes it so highly prized as a gem .
The sun not merely renders the red-coloured stone visible , as it would a piece of coral , but it excites the crystal to phosphorescence , and causes it to glow with a luminous internal light , the energy of which is not diffused over a broad portion of the spectrum , but is chiefly concentrated into one wave-length .
' \ The crimson glow of alumina remains visible some time after the current ceases tb pass .
When the residual glow has ceased it can be revived by heating slightly with a spirit-lamp .
After long experimenting with chemically pure alumina precipitated from the sulphate as above described , a curious phenemenon takes place .
When sealed up in the vacuum two years ago it was snow white ; but , after being frequently submitted to the molecular discharge for the purpose of exhibiting its brilliant phosphorescence , it gradually assumes a pink tinge , and on examination in sunlight a trace of the alumina line can be detected .
The repeated molecular excitation is slowly causing the amorphous powder to assume a crystalline form .
Under some circumstances , alumina glows with a green colour .
Ammonia in large excess was added to a dilute solution of alum .
The Mr. W. Crookes .
[ May 19 , strong ammoniacal solution filtered from the precipitated alumina was now boiled .
The alumina which the excess of ammonia had dissolved was thereby precipitated .
This was filtered off , ignited , and tested in the molecular discharge .
It gave no red light whatever but phosphoresced of a pale green , and on examination with a prism the light showed no lines , but - only a concentration of light in the green .
Two earthen crucibles were tightly packed , the one with sulphate of alumina , the other with acetate of alumina .
They were then exposed , side by side , to the most intense heat of a wind fumaoe \#151 ; a heat little short of the melting-point of platinum.* The resulting aluminas were then tested in the molecular stream .
The alumina from the sulphate gave the crimson glow and the spectrum line .
The alumina from the acetate gave no red glow or line , but a pale green phosphorescence .
In my examination of rubies , many pounds of which have passed through my apparatus , I have been fortunate enough to meet with one solitary crystal , not to the eye different from others , which emits a green light when tested in the molecular stream .
All others act as I may call normally .
The spectrum of this green-glowing crystal shows , however , a trace of the red line , and on keeping the discharge acting on it for a few minutes the green phosphorescence grows fainter and a red tinge is developed , the spectrum line in the red becoming more distinct .
" Besides the ruby , other native forms of crystallised alumina phosphoresce .
Thus corundum glows with a pink colour .
The sapphire appears to be made up of the red-glow and green-glow alumina .
Some fine crystals of sapphire shine with alternate bands of red and green , arranged in layers perpendicular to the axis .
Unfortunately it is impossible to prepare a tube for exhibition containing this variety of sapphire , as it is constantly evolving gas from the numerous fissures and cavities which abound in this mineral .
The red glow of alumina is chiefly characteristic of this earth in a free state .
Few of its compounds , except spinel ( aluminate of magnesium ) , either natural or artificial , show it in any marked degree .
All the artificially crystallised aluminas give a strong red glow and spectrum line .
An artificially crystallised aluminium and barium fluoride phosphoresces with a blue colour , but shows the red alumina line in the spectrum .
Spinel glows red , and gives the red line almost as strong as the ruby .
The mineral spodumene ( an aluminium and lithium silicate ) phosphoresces very brilliantly with a rich golden-yellow colour , but shows no spectrum line , only a strong concentration of light in the orange * This operation was kindly performed for me by Messrs. Johnson and Matthey .
\#166 ; 1881 .
] Discontinuous Phosphorescent Spectra High Vacua .
209 i Yellow .
A phosphorescing crystal of spodumene has all the internal light cut off with a Nicol prism , when the long axes of the Nicol and the crystal are parallel .
It became of interest to see if the other earths would show phosphorescent properties similar to those of alumina , and especially if any If them would give a discontinuous spectrum ; considerable interest [ attaching to a solid body whose molecules vibrate in a few directions only givin- rise to spectrum lines or bands on a dark background Glucina 'prepared with great care is found to phosphoresce with a bright blue colour , but no lines can be detected m the spectrum , only a concentration of light m the blue . .
, .
[ The rare mineral phenakite ( silicate of glucinum ) , sometimes used as a gem , phosphoresces blue like pure glucina .
This mineral shows a residual glow after the current is turned off .
Thorina has very little , if any , phosphorescence .
This earth is , however , remarkable for its very strong attraction for the residual gas in the vacuum tube .
On putting thorina in a tube furnished with well-insulated poles , whose ends are about a millimetre apart m the centre , and heating strongly during exhaustion , the earth , on cooling , absorbs the residual gas with such avidity that the tube becomes nonconducting .
the spark preferring to pass several inches m air rather than strike across the space of a millimetre separating the two poles .
It is probable that this strong attraction for gas is connected with the great density of the earth thorina ( sp. gr. = 9*4 ) .
Zirconia gives a very brilliant phosphorescence , approaching m intensity that of sulphide of calcium .
The colour is pale bluish-green , becoming whiter as the intensity of the discharge increases : no lines are seen in its spectrum .
Lanthana precipitated as hydrate and ignited shows no phosphorescence .
After it has been heated for some time before the blowpipe it phosphoresces of a rich brown .
Didymia , from the ignition of the hydrate , has scarcely any phosphorescence ; what little there is appears to give a continuous spectrum with a broad black band in the yellow-green .
On examining the light reflected from this earth when illuminated by day or artificial light , the same black band is seen , and with a narrow slit and sunlight the band is resolved , into a series of fine lines , occupying the position of the broadest group of absorption lines in the transmission spectrum of didymium salts .
Yttria shows a dull greenish light , giving a continuous spectrum .
Erbia phosphoresces with a yellowish colour , and gives a continuous spectrum , with the two sharp black bands so characteristic of this earth cutting through the green at \ 520 and 523 .
These lines are easily seen in the light reflected from erbia when illuminated by daylight .
It is well known that solid erbia heated in a flame glows with Mr. W. Crookes .
[ May 19 a green light , and gives a spectrum which chiefly consists of twl bright green lines in the same place as the dark lines seen by reflecteil A curious phenomenon is presented by erbia when the spark passes a over it at a high exhaustion .
The particles of earth which have accil dentally covered the poles are shot off with great velocity , forminJ brightly luminous lines , and , striking on the sides of the tube , ' rebound i remaining red-hot for an appreciable time after they have lost theirs velocity .
They form a very good visible illustration of radiants matter .
Titanic acid phosphoresces dark brown , with gold spots in places .
S\#166 ; Stannic acid gives no phosphorescence .
Chromic , ferric , and ceric oxides do not appreciably phosphoresce .
' , j Magnesia phosphoresces with a pink opalescent colour , and shows no spectrum lines .
Baryta ( anhydrous ) scarcely phosphoresces at all .
Hydrated !
baryta , on the contrary , shines with a bright orange-yellow light , but } shows no discontinuity of spectrum ; only a concentration in the\lt ; yellow-orange .
Strontia ( hydrated ) phosphoresces with a beautiful deep blue colour , and when examined in the spectroscope the emitted lights shows a greatly increased intensity at the blue and violet end , with- !
out any lines or bands .
Lime phosphoresces of a bright orange-yellow colour , changing to opal-blue in patches where the molecular discharge raises the temperature .
In the focus of a concave pole the lime becomes red and white-hot , giving out much light .
This earth commences to phosphoresce more than 5 millims. below the vacuum , and continues to grow brighter as long as the electricity is able to pass through the tube .
On stopping the discharge there is a decided residual glow .
No lines are seen in the spectrum of the light .
Calcium carbonate ( calcite ) shows a strong phosphorescence , which begins to appear at a comparatively low exhaustion ( 5 millims. ) .
-The interior of the crystal shines of a bright straw colour , and the ; ordinary and extraordinary rays are luminous with oppositely polarised ] light .
Calcite shows the residual glow longer than any substance I have as yet experimented with .
After the current has been turned off the crystals shine in the dark with a yellow light for more than a j minute .
Calcium phosphate generally gives an orange-yellow phospho- 1 rescence and a continuous spectrum .
Sometimes , however , a yellow- | green band is seen superposed on the spectrum .
Potash phosphoresces faintly of a blue colour .
The spectrum shows a concentration at the blue end , but the light is too faint to enable * lines , if any , to be detected .
881.1 Discontinuous Phosphorescent Spectra in High Vacua .
211 Soda phosphoresces faintly yellow , and gives the yellow line in the Uthium carbonate gives a faint red phosphorescence .
Examined in " e spectroscope , the red , orange , and bine lithium lines are seen .
I have already said that the diamond phosphoresces with great Ulliancy .
In this respect perfectly clear and colourless stones of lie first water " are not the most striking , and they generally glow o f blue colour- Diamonds , which in sunlight have a slight fluorescence disappearing when yellow glass is interposed , generally phosphoresce stronger than others , and the emitted light is of a pale ellowish-green colour .
iv Most diamonds which emit a very strong yellowish light m the nolecular discharge give a continuous spectrum , having bnght lines across it in the green and blue .
A faint green lme is seen at about f 537 .
at X 513 a bright greenish-blue line is seen , and a bright blue fine at X 503 .
A darkish spaoe separating the last two lines .
Diamonds which phosphoresce red generally show the yellow sodium line superposed on a continuous spectrum .
_ i There is great difference in the degree of exhaustion at which various substances begin to phosphoresce .
Some refuse to glow until the exhaustion is so great that the vacuum is nearly non-eonductmg , whilst others commence to become luminous when the gauge is 5 or 10 millims. below the barometric level .
The majority of bodies , however , do not phosphoresce till they are well within the negative dark I I During the analysis of some minerals containing the rarer earths experimented on , certain anomalies have been met with , which seem to indicate the possible presence of other unknown elements awaiting : detection .
On several occasions an earthy precipitate has come down * where , chemically speaking , no such body was expected ; or , by frac-j tional precipitation and solution , from a supposed simple earth something has separated which , in its chemical characters , was not quite identical with the larger portion ; or , the chemical characteristics of 1 an earth have agreed fairly well with those assigned to it in books , i but it deviated in some physical peculiarity .
It has been my practice to submit all these anomalous bodies to molecular bombardment , and I have had the satisfaction of discovering a class of earthy bodies which , whilst they phosphoresce strongly , also givre spectra of remarkable beauty . . .
' . .
, The speotrum seen most frequently is given by a pale yellowish coloured earth .
It consists of a red , orange , citron , and green band , nearly equidistant , the citron being broader than the others and very bright .
Then comes a faint blue , and lastly two very strong blue-violet bands .
These bands , when seen at theii best , are on a perfectly black background ; but the parent earth gives a continuous 212 Phosphorescent Spectra in High Vacua .
[ May 19 spectrum , and it is only occasionally , and as it were by accident , that I have so entirely separated it from the anomalous earth as to see the bands in their full purity .
Another earthy body gives a spectrum similar to that just described , but wanting the red , and having *1 double orange and double citron band .
A third gives a similar spectrum , but with a yellow line interposed between the double orange and the double citron , and having two narrow green lines .
At present I do not wish to say more than that I have strong indications that one , or perhaps several new elements are here giving signs of their existence .
The quantities I have to work upon are very small , and when each step in the chemical operation has to be checked by an appeal to the vacuum tube and to the induction coil the progress is tediously slow .
In the thallium research it only occupied a few minutes to take a portion of a precipitate on a platinum loop , introduce it into a spirit-flame , and look in the spectroscope for the green line .
In that way the chemical behaviour of the new element with reagents could be ascertained with rapidity , and a scheme could be promptly devised for its separation from accompanying impurities .
Here , however , the case is different : to perform a spectrum test , the body under examination must be put in a tube and exhausted to a very high point before the spectroscope can be brought to bear on it .
Instead of two minutes , half a day is occupied in each operation , and the tentative gropings in the dark , unavoidable in such researches , must be extended over a long period of time .
The chemist must also be on his guard against certain pitfalls which catch the unwary .
I allude to the profound modification which the presence of fluorine , phosphorus , boron , \amp ; c. , causes in the chemical reactions of many elements , and to the interfering action of a large quantity of one body on the chemical properties of another which may be present in small quantities .
The fact of giving a discontinuous phosphorescent spectrum is in itself quite insufficient to establish the existence of a new body .
At present it can only be employed as a useful test to supplement chemical research .
Wffien , however , I find that the same spectrumforming earthy body can always be obtained by submitting the mineral to a certain chemical treatment ; when the chemical actions which have separated this anomalous earth are such that only a limited number of elements can possibly be present ; when I find it impossible to produce a substance giving a similar discontinuous spectrum by mixing together any or all of the bodies which alone could survive the aforesaid chemical treatment ; when all .
these facts are taken into consideration , and when due weight is given to the very characteristic spectrum reaction , I cannot help concluding that the most probable explanation is that these anomalies are caused by the presence of an unknown body whose chemical reactions are not 8811 Prof. D. E. Hughes .
Molecular Magnetism .
213 sufficiently marked to have enabled chemists to differentiate it from Associated elements .
III .
" Molecular Magnetism .
" By Professor D. E. Hughes , F.R.S. Received May 10 , 1881 .
During the course of some late researches , which I had the honour " communicate to the Royal Society , March 7th , * and experimentally Uustrate on the reading of my second paper , March 31 , t many experimental facts occurred , all pointing to the conclusion that Ordinary molar magnetism is entirely due to the symmetrical arrange-ment of the polarised molecules , and that these molecules can e ro e by torsion , so as to decrease the longitudinal magnetism , or increase it , f the effect of the elastic torsion is to rotate the molecules into the required longitudinal symmetrical arrangement .
And observing that molecular magnetism could induce an electric current upon its own molar constituents , or that an electric current by its passage through an iron wire would produce molecular magnetism , I have continued these researches in the hope of elucidating , as far as possible , the phenomenon of the transformation of electricity and magnetism by the changes produced in the molecular structure of its conducting wire .
Por this purpose I have employed three separate methods of investigation , each requiring a slightly modified form of apparatus .
The first relates to the influence of an elastic torsion upon a magnetic or conducting wire ; the second , to the influence upon the molecular structure of an iron wire of electricity or magnetism ; the third , to the evident movement of the molecules themselves as given out m sonorous vibrations .
The general details of the apparatus employed having been given in my paper of March 7th , I will only briefly indicate any modification of the method employed .
1 .
Influence of an Elastic Torsion upon a Magnetic or an Electric Conducting Wire .
In my paper of March 7th on " Molecular Electro-Magnetic Induction , " I showed that induced currents of electricity would be induced in an iron wire placed on the axis of a coil through which intermitten u currents were passing , and that these currents were produced only when the wire was under the influence of a torsion not passing its limit of elasticity .
It became evident that if the intermittent magnetism induced by the coil produced under torsion intermittent currents * u Molecular Electro-Magnetic Induction , " u Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. 31 , p. 525 .
+ u Permanent Molecular Torsion of Conducting Wires produced by the Passage of an Electric Current , " Ibidyol , 32 , p. 25 .

