The Brachial Arterial Arches in Birds .
1887 .
] Time .
0 ' 0 " Condenser connected to battery .
0 30 Condenser quickly discharged and connected with electrometer .
Reading on scale ... ... ... ... 539 10 " 615 maximum .
2 0 " 557 3 0 " 544 Other liquids were tested in this way , but in no other case were similar phenomena observed .
Mixtures of CS2 and benzene or paraffin were also inactive in this sense , even when the mixtures were incomplete and the liquids were put in in such a way as to be " streaky , " as was found possible .
Some attempts were made to discover traces of polarisation , but no definite results were obtained .
In the earliest experiments something of the kind was observed , but this was traced to the key and connexions .
XXII .
" The Development of the Branchial Arterial Arches in Birds , with special Reference to the Origin of the Sub-clavians and Carotids .
" By John Yule Mackay , M.D. , Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy , University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor Cleland , M.D. , F.RS .
Received May 29 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) According to the theories of Rathke , which are universally accepted at the present day , the subclavian artery is supposed to take its origin from the aortic root or fourth embryonic branchial arterial arch .
In the adult bird the subclavian on each side is found springing from , the extremity of an innominate artery along with the common carotid .
It is presumed that the right subclavian has been , by a shortening of the aortic arch , carried forwards until it meets and fuses with the base of the common carotid artery ; and the left subclavian is regarded as representing by its basal portion the fourth left arch or left primitive aorta .
The subclavian of birds is thus regarded by Rathke as being developed in a manner similar to that of mammals .
The author points out , however , that there is a marked difference in the relations of the artery to the surrounding parts in these two groups .
In mammals the subclavian artery is Grossed on its ventral aspect by the jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve , and the recurrent branch of the latter turns round it upon the right side , but in birds the nerve 430 Dr. J.Y. Mackay .
[ June 16 , and vein are dorsallj placed as regards the artery , and the recurrent laryngeal nerves turn round the ductus arteriosus or vestiges of the fifth arches , a relationship which cannot be accounted for by supposing with Rathke that the vessel takes its origin first from the aortic root , because , if so arising , it would occupy a position dorsal to vein and nerve , and it is impossible to imagine a method by which the artery could pass from the dorsal to the ventral aspect of these structures without cutting them through in its course .
-D.V .
Vhjjjr jdv : YV .
Ventral vessel .
S1 .
Subclavian of Mammals .
D V. Dorsal vessel .
/ S'2 .
Subclavian of birds .
In these circumstances the author has undertaken an investigation into the manner in which the subclavian artery first makes its appearance in birds .
He finds that it occupies from the first a ventral position arising from the truncus arteriosus at the ventral end of the third arch .
The vessel may be seen in the freshly removed embryo duck or chick on the third or fourth day , at a time when the pectoral limb is merely a small projection from the body-wall , and on the fifth day in the chick it may , while still filled with blood , be traced by the eye from the ventral end of the third arch across the superior cardinal Vein to the limb .
The presence of this ventral vessel is also demonstrated during the third , fourth , and fifth days in the chick by microscopic sections of hardened embryos , but , owing to the oblique course which the artery holds in the body-wall , it is impossible in one series of sections to trace its entire length , and this is probably the cause The Brachial Arterial Arches in Birds .
1887 .
] of its having been overlooked by previous observers .
In chicks at the close of the sixth day and in older forms it is pointed out that the artery may be followed by dissection under water .
The innominate artery has been observed to be formed , not by the gradual fusion of the subclavian and carotid arteries at their bases , but by the splitting up of the truncus arteriosus into canals continuous with the three permanent arches , the innominate artery belonging to the third , and the basal portions of the aorta and pulmonary artery to the fourth and fifth respectively .
The author has also examined the relations of the subclavian artery in the different groups of vertebrate animals , and finds that instead of there being but one artery prolonged into the limb , as Rathke held , there are in reality two such vessels .
One is represented by the mammalian subclavian , and also in lizards and amphibians is found arising from the aortic root , and passing outwards to the limb dorsal to the pneumogastric nerve and jugular vein .
The other , present in birds and in crocodilian and chelonian reptiles , arises from the ventral end of the third arch , and crosses outwards ventral to vein and nerve .
In most of the lower forms representatives of both vessels are present , and ^one or other is specially enlarged and supplies the greater part of the limb , but it is pointed out that in the forms where the two vessels co-exist they anastomose with one another in the body-wall at the base of the limb .
This anastomosis may be dissected out in lizards , where the dorsal vessel is specially enlarged , and in crocodilian reptiles , where the ventral artery plays the important part .
In the higher forms ( birds and mammals ) one of the arteries alone is present , but the cetacean group of mammals forms an exception to this rule .
In this group both arteries are to be found , and it is the ventral , not the dorsal as in mammals 'generally , which specially supplies the limb .
With reference to the development of the carotid artery in birds , Rathke believed that the external carotid was the prolongation of the ventral trunk from the extremity of the third arch towards the head , and regarded the branches of the external carotid as derivatives of this ventral vessel .
The internal carotid he looked upon as representing the third arch and its dorsal continuation towards the head , while the common carotid was believed by him to be the portion of the ventral vessel between the third and fourth arches .
It is pointed out that if the observations already explained as to the origin of the subclavian artery be accepted , and that vessel be held to arise from the ventral extremity of the third arch , then , if Rathke 's theory of the external carotid be true , the subclavian should be found in the adult as a branch of the external carotid ; but this is not the ease .
The common carotid artei'y , which Rathke regarded as a ventral VOL. xlii .
2 i 432 The Brachial Arterial Arches in Birds .
[ June 16 , .
vessel , runs towards the head in the adult bird , upon the dorsal aspect of the alimentary canal , and distributes intervertebral branches as it goes .
Rathke believed that this artery was originally ventral in position , and passed gradually round the oesophagus in the course of growth until it finally reached the dorsal aspect ; but the author points out that while the artery does change its position somewhat , , it is to a much more limited extent than Rathke believed .
In the chick of the third or fourth day , the main vessel for the supply of the head is the dorsal continuation from the third arch , the ventral vessel being small .
The examination of the further development by sections and dissections makes it evident that the ventral vessel dwindles in importance , and becomes finally a small branch passing from the subclavian to the ventral aspect of the trachea , while the dorsal prolongation becomes the sole supply of the head .
At the close of the sixth day the dorsal connexion between the ends of the third and fourth arches is still present , and it is continuous with the common carotid , which may be easily followed to the head as a dorsal vessel , and its external branches , as well as its internal , are therefore to be regarded as derivatives of a dorsal stem .
In the adult the common carotid lies in the middle line of the neck in contact with its fellow of the opposite side , but in the embryo the vessels of opposite sides are at some little distance from one another ; by the seventh day , however , they have approached one another so as to be almost in contact .
This change , however , is not , as Rathke supposed , the passage of a ventral vessel to a dorsal position , but a slight alteration in the line of a vessel already dorsal .
When the carotid system of different groups of vertebrate animals-is examined , it is found that in those forms where , on account of the preservation of the dorsal connexion between the third and fourth arches , the continuous dorsal longitudinal vessel can be traced , the branches for the supply of both internal and external aspects of the head arise from this dorsal vessel .
In these forms the ventral prolongation supplies only the tongue .
This is the case in most lizards-As the higher stages are reached the disappearance of the portion of the dorsal vessel between the ends of the third and fourth arches-makes a comparison of the vessels uncertain , but the author has discovered in the crocodile , and as an abnormality in a guillemot , solid cords stretching between the common carotids and aortas on the dorsal aspect of the alimentary canal .
In these cases it is seen that the greater part of the common carotid is to be regarded as the dorsal prolongation from the third arch towards the head .
The ventral vessel in birds and crocodiles is not , therefore , the external carotid , a\#187 ; Rathke has it , but an artery running upon the trachea and supplying branches to the muscles on the ventral surface of the neck .

