I. Reply to Prof. Owen 's Paper " e On Zoological Names of Characteristic Parts and Homological Interpretations of their MIodifications and Beginnings , especially in reference to Connecting Fibres of the Brain , " read before the Royal Society March 23 , 1865 .
" By W. H. FLOWER , F.R.S. Received March 28 , 1865 .
As the above-cited paper consists mainly of complaints of omissions and misrepresentations alleged to be contained in the abstract of my paper " On the Commissures of the Cerebral Hemispheres of the Marsupialia and Moionotremata , as compared with those of the Placental iMamnmals " ( Proceedings of Royal Society , vol. xiv .
p. 71 ) , I trust that I may be allowed a few words in reply .
My first impression on hearing the paper read was a feeling of extreme surprise .
When it had become necessary to give publicity to the results of observations which in some respects differed from those recorded by Prof. Owen , I was most anxious , in consequence of the natural respect which I felt for one who has laboured so long and assiduously in the field of anatomical research , that this should be done with the greatest possible deference to his opinions and feelings , and with the smallest semblance of anything which could be construed into an " attack .
" In this I believed that I had succeeded .
That Prof. Owen should have read my " Abstract " from a point of view so different from what I had intended , is to me a source of great regret .
In the brief space allowed for the abstracts of papers communicated to the Royal Society , copious and detailed references to the writings of previous authors are necessarily out of place .
Where it is usual only to give an outline of the scientific facts advanced in the paper , it would be obviously improper to follow out the labyrinths of bygone discussions on intricate questions of priority , of definitions , interpretations , and such like matters .
Hence most of the citations to be found in my paper , not only from the writings of Prof. Owen , but also from numerous other authors , are omitted in the abstract .
To Prof. Owen 's complaints that I have not assigned to him the merit of this or that particular discovery , my reply is that I did this generally once for all in my statement that " at the outset a confirmation is afforded of the important fact , first observed by Prof. Owen , that the brains of animals of the orders Marsupialia and Monotremata present certain special and peculiar characters , by which they may be at once dis134 [ Mar. 30 , tinguished from those of other mammals , " &amp;c. I never thought it would be attributed to me that I wished it to be believed that every particular statement to which I did not attach the name of some other author was my own original discovery .
Little scope as there is in an abstract for entering into the literature of the subject , a reference to the writings of an anatomist who has contributed so much to advance our knowledge in the special department treated of in my paper could not be altogether omitted .
I therefore found it necessary to give in a few words an epitome of the results of those writings .
It is in the outline I thus gave that I am acused of serious misrepresentation .
Prof. Owen 's first direct charge is contained in the following sentence:"It is time that the procedure be exposed and stigmatised which consists in representing the homological knowledge and opinions of an author by his definitions in a purely zoological work , and in suppressing all reference to the descriptions and statements in the anatomical writings of the same author , where his actual knowledge and opinions on the nature and homology of parts are given , and where alone they can be expected to be found .
My present remarks refer to the published 'Abstract ' of Mr. Flower 's paper .
" To this I reply that my first and indeed only reference in the body of my 'Abstract ' is not to any purely zoological work , but to Prof. Owen 's original detailed anatomical paper ( Phil. Trans. 1837 ) , to which he has himself always referred as containing the amplest exposition of his views upon the subject .
It is next objected that , in quoting what seemed to me the pith and marrow of that memoir , I omitted following passage:"This commissure [ viz. the commissure of the hippocampi in the Marsupialia ] may nevertheless be regarded as representing , *besides the fornix , the rudimental commencement of the corpus callosum .
" There certainly appeared to me little necessity for the formal citation of a single passage like this , which , if it can be construed into a statement that the corpus callosum is present in the marsupial animals , is perfectly inconsistent with the whole of the remainder of Prof. Owen 's memoir , nay further , is immediately contradicted by the context , the whole paragraph standing thus in the original .
" This commissure may nevertheless be regarded as representing , besides the fornix , the rudimental commencement of the corpus callosum ; but this determination does not invalidate the fact that the great commissure which unites the supraventricular masses of the hemispheres in the Beaver , and all other placentally developed Mammalia , and which exists in addition to the hippocampal commissure , is wanting in the brain of the Wombat ; and as the same deficiency exists in the brain of the Great and Bush Kangaroos , the Vulpine Phalanger , the Ursine and Manges Dasyure , and the Virginian Opossum , it is most probably characteristic of the marsupial division of IMJfammalia .
" In the same page of the lmemoir the following occurs:1865 .
] 135 Meanwhile their agreement in so important a modification of the cerebral organ as the absence of a corpus callosum and septum lucidum , affords additional and strong grounds for regarding the Marsupialia as a distinct and peculiar group of mammals .
" Notwithstanding this clear and definite statement , which occurs again and again in some form or other throughout the memoir , we are told that it is misrepresentation to quote Prof. Owen as alleging " the absence in the marsupials of the corpus callosum .
" But Prof. Owen has failed to notice that the discussion of the homological relations advanced in the above cited short passage , and in similar terms in his articles in the 'Cyclopaedia of Anatomy , ' is by no means passed over even in my abstract , as the paragraph commencing with the following words will show .
" Can this transverse commissure , of which the relation is so disturbed by the disposition of the inner wall of the hemisphere , be regarded as homologous to the entire corpus callosum of the placental mammals ?
or is it , as has been suggested , to be looked upon as only representing the psalterial fibres or transverse commissure of the hippocampi ?
" ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xiv .
p. 72 .
) If , after the words " as has been suggested , " I had added " by Prof. Owen , " there would , I believe , have been nothing wanting to complete as fair and full an exposition of that author 's views as was compatible with the limits of an abstract .
I now regret the omission .
I thought that as Prof. Owen 's name occurred , both before and after , in connexion with the subject , and as no other author was mentioned , it would easily be surmised that the suggestion was his .
I was moreover , as I stated before , especially anxious to avoid giving a polemical appearance to my paper by too frequent citations by name , where it was necessary to show a divergence of opinion .
I now come to the alleged misrepresentation of Prof. Owen 's opinions contained in a foot-note to my abstract , which runs as follows:"In the paper by the same author [ Prof. Owen ] 'on the Characters , Principles of Division , and Primary Groups of the Class Mammalia ' ( Proc. Linn. Soc. 1858 ) , the Subclass Lyencephala ( 'loose ' or disconnected ' brain ) , equivalent to the Marsupialia and Monotremata , are characterized as having the cerebral hemispheres but feebly and partially connected together by the 'fornix ' and ' anterior commissure , ' while in the rest of the class a part called 'corpus callosum ' is added , which completes the connecting or commissural apparatus .
" It is now objected that this was only intended as a " zoological definition " or " character .
" Not being aware that a zoological character , valid as such , can misrepresent an anatomical truth , when I wished to find a brief epitome of Prof. Owen 's latest views upon the nature of the commissures of the marsupial brain , in corroboration of the one I had given in the text from his earliest memoir , I adopted the above statement .
I adopted it , moreover , because he had himself referred to it in the following emphatic terms .
I quote from the well-known " ' Read Lecture , " delivered before the University of Cam136 [ Mar. 30 , bridge in 1859 * ( p. 23 ) : " At length , having dissected the brain , in one species at least , of almost every genus or natural family of the mammalian class , I felt myself in a position to submit to the judgment of my fellow labourers in Zoology , at the Linnean Society in 1857 , the generalized results of such dissections , comprising a fourfold primary division of the MAMMALIA based upon the four leading modifications of cerebral structure in that class .
" ( In some mammals the cerebral hemispheres are but feebly and partially connected together by the ' fornix ' and ' anterior commissure ' ; in the rest of the class the part called 'corpus callosum ' is added , which completes the connecting or 'commissure ' apparatus .
" With the absence of this great superadded commissure is associated a remarkable modification of the mode of development of the offspring .
*** This first and lowest primary group , or subclass of Mammalia , is termed , from its cerebral character , LYENCEPHALA , signifying the comparatively loose or disconnected state of the cerebral hemispheres .
" I think that I should scarcely be blamed for putting my trust in an author 's own description of the " generalized results " of his researches , deliberately laid before his fellow-labourers at a meeting of a learned Society twenty years after those researches were made .
I may add , moreover , that the works , both English and foreign , upon Comparative Anatomy and Physiology , in which the simple fact that the marsupials and monotremes differ from the other mammlalia by the absence of a corpus callosum or great transverse commissure to their brain is stated upon the authority of Prof. Owen , may be said to comprehend most of those of any importance published since the year 1837 .
One or two examples will suffice .
MM .
Eydoux and Laurent ( Voyage de la Favourite ) have thrown into a tabular form the published results of the dissections of the brains of the Implacental Mammalia as compared with placental mammals and birds , in which Table the part played by the corpus callosum is as follows : I MONODELPHES EHES .
DIDELPES ORNITHODELPHES .
OISAUX .
" Corps calleux ... existe .
manque .
manque .
manque .
" This statement of the '"rsultat des observations de M. 1 .
Owen , " so far from having called forth the strictures of that anatomist , is quoted with approbation in his article " c Monotremata " in the ' Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology .
' In Van der Hoeven 's 'Zoology , ' vol. ii .
p. 596 ( Dr. Clark 's edition ) , it is stated that " the great transverse commissure of the hemispheres of the cerebrum is , with the exception of the Monotremes and Marsupiates ( R. Owen , 'On the Structure of the Brain in Marsupial Animals , ' Phil. Trans. 1837 ) , present in all mammals .
" In the preface of the same work , the editor , speaking upon the authority of the above-mentioned paper in the Journal of the Linnean Society , says , " In some mammals the cerebral hemispheres are only partially connected by the fornix and the anterior commissure ; in the rest of the class the corpus callosum is added .
" I will only cite one other instance to show that I am far from being singular in the outline I have given of the most important part of Professor Owen 's researches upon this subject .
In the year 1851 the Copley Medal of this Society was awarded to Professor Owen .
In the epitomized account of his labours , the observations upon the structure of the Marsupial Brain are referred to in the following terms .
I quote from the President 's Address ( Proceedings of the Royal Society , Dec. 1st , 1851):- " In the Philosophical Transactions for 1837 appeared a memoir from Professor Owen 's pen , describing certain peculiarities in the brain of the Marsupialia , especially the absence of the corpus callosum .
The same condition he subsequently discovered in the Ornithorhynchus and Echidna .
This , and other peculiarities of structure in the sanguiferous , osseous , and dental systems , led Professor Owen to suggest a modification of the classification of the mammalia which Cuvier had adopted in his last edition of the ' Regne Animal .
' Deeming modifications of brain of more importance than those of ungual phalanges , and connecting the higher development of the commissural system of the brain with the longer sojourn of the foetus in the womb , and its more intimate union therewith , Professor Owen , in his paper 'On the Classification of the Marsupials ' in the Trans. Zool. Soc. 1839 , groups together all the mammalia which have a placenta under any form , and which have a corpus callosum , in a primary subclass , under the name of Placentalia ; the rest form the Subclass Implacentalia , and this includes the orders Marsupialia and Monotremata .
" This outline of the most important results of a series of anatomical researches could not have been intended as a " zoological definition .
" If I have misrepresented Professor Owen in stating broadly that he alleged that the implacental mammalia were distinguished from the remainder of the class by the absence of the corpus callosum , so also did the compiler of the above parararaph ; and at least one of the reasons assigned for the award of the highest honour the Society can bestow is grounded on a misconception .
The main difference as to questions of fact between Professor Owen and myself may be stated briefly as follows .
He has seen and described , in the brains of the implacental mammals , a transverse commissure between the hemispheres of the cerebrum , which he calls 'fornix , ' 'commissure of the hippocampi , ' or sometimes 'rudimental commencement of the corpus callosum .
' This commissure he appears to have seen ( or at all events to have described ) only in a portion of its extent .
HIe has found in placental mammals a great transverse commissure superadded to this , to which he generally restricts the term ' corpus callosum .
' I have seen and described in the brain of several implacental mammals the same transverse commissure , but have traced out its relations and connexions more fully , especially by means of transverse and lon138 [ Mar. 30 , gitudinal sections .
If my determination is correct , it represents ( not merely according to transcendental homological signification , but as a simple question of plain anatomical observation ) the whole of the great transverse commissure , or corpus callosum of the lower placental mammals , only in somewhat reduced proportions , and with relations somewhat modified by the peculiar form of the inner cerebral wall .
There is consequently no superadded structure in the brain of the latter group .
To the imputation , twice repeated , of having " obtained " or " derived " the notions and ideas contained in my paper from Professor Owen 's writings , no direct reply is necessary .
The communication which I presented to the Society is the result of repeated original observations and dissections , made at various periods , extending over more than three years .
The descriptions are all verified by drawings and preparations .
That their publication ( if they should be so honoured ) may advance in some slight degree our knowledge of a difficult and obscure , yet important branch of anatomy , is all that I venture to hope .
That they are entirely free from errors , or that they may not , at some future time , be superseded by the researches of abler investigators , I do not presume to believe .

