IX .
" On the Existence of a Magnetic Medium .
" By T. A. HIRSTS , Esq. Communicated by Dr. TYNDALL , F.R.S , Received April 14 , 1855 .
In a note on the above subject , communicated to the Royal Society on March 16 , 1855 , Professor Williamson objects to a certain conclusion deduced by Professor Tyndall in a letter addressed by the latter to Mr. Faraday and recently published in the Philosophical Magazine .
Professor Tyndall 's conclusion was that , according to the hypothesis of the existence of a magnetic medium in space and of the identity of magnetism and diamagnetism , a compressed diamagnetic cube ought to be less repelled when the magnetic force acts on the line of compression than when it acts at right angles to that line ; a result which his own experiments have contradicted .
Against the legitimacy of this conclusion Professor Williamson urges that " Dr. Tyndall seems to have assumed , that on the compression of an aggregate of particles of a diamagnetic substance , the medium is not displaced by the particles in their change of position .
" We shall be better able to estimate the value of this objection by recalling the steps of Professor Tyndall 's argument .
A magnetic cube was taken which had already been compressed : its deportment before a magnet was experimentally examined , and deductions drawn concerning the changes that would occur in that deportment by merely conceiving the magnetic capacity of the material particles to be diminished , without in any way altering the distances between those particles , and consequently without in any way displacing the magnetic medium in the interstices of the body .
Instead of the assumption attributed to Dr. Tyndall , he might , with greater justice , be accused of having disregarded the possible presence of the medium within the body ; but in his own defence he may with perfect justice reply , that in Mr. Faraday 's experiments , which originally gave rise to the discussion , no such interpenetration of two media existed .
Admitting , however , that the interstices of a body are occupied by the medium , it may be interesting to inquire whether , from an argument similar to Professor Tyndall 's , the same decided conclusion could , with equal accuracy , be deduced .
To answer the inquiry , it must be remembered that the force of the argument in question depends essentially upon the justness of the supposition , that a diamagnetic cube may , theoretically , be produced from a magnetic one by conceiving the magnetic capacity of the particles of the latter to be sufficiently diminished .
It is evident that the total attraction of the cube by a magnet will be equal to the sum of the attractions of the material particles , and of the medium contained in its interstices .
If this sum be greater than the attracting force upon the quantity of medium which the cube and its contents displace , the substance is called magnetic , for it will be drawn towards the magnet ; if less , it is called diamagnetic , for it will be repelled from the magnet .
But in our present knowledge of the properties of the medium there is nothing incompatible with the supposition that the density of the internal medium may so far exceed that of the external , that the attraction of the former by the magnet is itself greater than the attraction of the medium displaced by the cube and its contents .
If so , however , no conceivable diminution of the magnetic capacity of the material particles could possibly render such a cube diamagnetic .
This is sufficient to show that , admitting the presence of the medium within the cube , the method of argument adopted by Professor Tyndall would not be strictly applicable , unless the density of the internal medium were subjected to limits which the advocates of its existence might possibly be unwilling to grant .
But it may be asked , if , whilst admitting that the medium may exist in the interstices of the body , it be granted that a diamagnetic may be produced from a magnetic cube in the manner assumed by Professor Tyndall , does it still follow , necesarily , that attraction is always greatest-repulsion least-when the force acts in the line of compression ?
In other words , can a conclusion contradictory to experimental facts be then legitimately deduced ?
In attempting a reply to this question , it will , perhaps , be best to employ the following symbols .
Let W represent the attracting force of the magnet upon the medium displaced by the cube and its contents .
The value of W will , of course , be unaltered , no matter whether the force acts in , or at right angles to the line of compression .
When the force acts in the line of compression , let P1 represent the attracting force upon the particles , W1 the attracting force upon the internal medium , and let F1 be proportional to the resultant attraction of the cubical mass towards the magnet .
Let P2 , W2 and F2 have similar significations when the force acts at right angles to the line of compression .
Then we may put F1-=P+M1-W , F2=P2+ M2-W .
Now , in a compressed magnetic cube , experiment proves that Fl &gt; F2 , or P1 + M1 &gt; P2+ Mn i.e. p1p2 &gt; -(M1-M2 ) .
As long as we are ignorant of the properties of the medium within the body , we will , for the sake of completeness , consider the following three distinct cases .
I. The attracting force upon the medium within the cube is the same when the force acts in either the one or the other of the two directions , with respect to the line of compression .
Here Ml=M2V hence PI &gt; P2 .
II .
In whichever of the two directions of the force the attraction of the particles may be greatest , the attraction of the internal medium is also greatest in the same direction .
Here , according as P1 is greater or less than P2 , Ml is greater or less than M2 ; hence , inasmuch as P1 + Ml &gt; P +M2 , P &gt; P and M1 &gt; M2 .
III .
In whichever of the two directions of the force the attraction of the particles may be greatest , the attraction of the internal medium is greatest in the direction perpendicular to the same .
Here , according as P1 is greater or less than P2 , M1 is less or greater than M2 , so that the two hypotheses ( 1 ) P1 &gt; P2 and Ml &lt; M2 , and ( 2 ) P &lt; P2 and M , &gt; are both compatible with the sole condition , P1 +M1 &gt; P2+M .
In order to test the applicability of Professor Tyndall 's method of argument in each of these cases , let us conceive , with him , that the magnetic capacity of the particles is so far diminished that their attractions P1 and P. are reduced to pi and P2 .
This may evidently be done by making pl=aP , and p2=aP2 , where a represents a positive fraction whose magnitude can be diminished indefinitely .
If , under this supposition , the resultant attractions F1 and F2 become f , andf2 , then it can easily be proved that , however small the value of a may be , we shall always have in the cases I. , II .
and III .
( 1 ) .
That is to say , with the distributions of the internal medium assumed in these cases , the resultant attraction of the cubical mass will always be greatest , or repulsion least , when the force acts in the line of compression , no matter how diamagnetic the cube may have become by diminishing the magnetic capacity of its particles .
It may just as easily be proved , however , that in case III .
( 2 ) a value of a may be chosen sufficiently small to make fl &lt; f , that is to say , with the distribution and properties of the internal medium here supposed , it is quite possible so far to diminish the magnetic capacity of the particles as to obtain a cube which will be attracted least , or repelled most strongly when the force acts in the line of compression .
This conclusion involves nothing contradictory to experimental facts , whereas the former one does .
I will not here enter into the question of the relative probability of these three cases , supposing the medium to exist .
My sole object has been to show that , although the method of argument adopted by Professor Tyndall is strictly applicable in a great number of cases , even when the medium is supposed to fill the interstices of the body , yet it is possible to attribute properties to this medium of such a nature as to avoid the conclusion , contradictory to fact , which he has deduced .
This may be done in two ways .
First , the density of the internal medium may be such as to render it impossible to produce a diamagnetic from a magnetic cube in the manner assumed , i. e. by diminishing the magnetic capacity of the material particles .
Secondly , granting that a diamagnetic cube may be so produced , the distribution and properties of the internal medium may still be such as to cause the cube to be attracted least , or repelled most strongly when the force acts on the line of compression , and thus , if the substance be diamagnetic , to cause it to agree , in its deportment , with experimental results .
On the other hand , if these hypothetical properties of the internal medium be discarded as artificial or inadmissible , then at present I see no way of escaping the conclusion of Professor Tyndall 's argument .
With regard to the explanation given by Professor Williamson , it will be observed that he pursues a path quite different from that of Professor Tyndall , when he considers the effects produced by compressing a number of particles surrounded by a magnetic medium .
This compression , he states , may alter the attraction of the mass by a magnet in two ways ; - " first , by altering the density of the matter ; secondly , by altering the density of the medium .
" By the term 'density of matter ' is usually understood the relation which exists between the quantity of matter which a body contains , and the volume of the space enclosed by its external surface .
But in the present case , where a comparison is instituted between the matter of the body and the medium which is supposed to fill all its pores , we must , I imagine , understand by the term 'density of matter , ' the relation which exists between the sum of the masses of the particles , and the sum of their volumes ; but if so , then , the particles themselves being incompressible , it is clear that compression could not alter the 'density of matter .
' As to the second effect of compression , viz. an alteration of the density of the medium , it may be quite conceivable , although I do not find that Professor Williamson has any where taken it into consideration .
The effects of compression may , therefore , be more correctly described as either-first , a diminution of the interstices of a body , without altering the density of the medium which fills them ; or secondly , a diminution of the interstices , accompanied by an alteration of the density of the medium within them .
Let us assume , as Professor Williamson has virtually done , that the first of these effects takes place ; then , if we admit that " in a cubical mass of carbonate of iron the material particles are more magnetic than the medium which they displace , and the force with which it is attracted is proportional to this excess , " we can by no means admit that , because " it becomes more magnetic by compression , we must conclude that the loss of magnetic medium from its interstices is more than supplied by the magnetic matter which takes its place ; " for , according to what has already been advanced , the excess of the attraction of the material particles above that of the medium they displace is the same after , as it was before compression ; inasmuch as compression merely changes the relative situations of the particles , by bringing them closer together , but does not in the least alter their volume , and consequently does not in the least alter the quantity of medium they displace .
With respect to carbonate of lime , Professor Williamson 's conclusion is , of course , untenable , because it is based upon the foregoing one .
He says , " when these particles are brought closer together by pressure , with diminution of the intervening spaces occupied by the medium , the mass becomes more diamagnetic , because a certain quantity of the magnetic medium is thus replaced by the less magnetic matter .
" It is , however , manifest that exactly the same quantity of magnetic medium is displaced by the less magnetic matter after , as there was before compression .
Why , then , should diamagnetic action be increased by compression ?
Lastly , with respect to the crystals of carbonate of iron and carbonate of lime , Professor Williamson 's explanation , although ingenious , is liable to the same objections as those already mentioned .
It cannot , in fact , be said that the functions of matter predominate most strongly over those of the medium they displace in any one direction , merely because the particles may be closer together in that direction ; for , as long as each particle is surrounded by the medium , the predominance of that function of the particles with which we are concerned , i. e. their attraction , over that of the medium they displace will be the same , whatever may be the distances of the particles asunder .
From the foregoing remarks , therefore , it is manifest that , if Prow .
fessor Tyndall has not yet succeeded in demonstrating that the hypothesis of the existence of a magnetic medium and of the identity of magnetism and diamagnetism is necessarily at variance with experimental facts , neither has Professor Williamson succeeded in proving that this hypothesis is in accordance with those facts .
The question of the existence of a magnetic medium is still an open one , and will continue to be so until the many important principles which it involves , but which have not been introduced into the present discussion , have been further elucidated by new investigations and new thoughts .

