Of the Attraction of such Solids as are terminated by Planes ; and of Solids of greatest Attraction .
By Thomas Knight , Esq. Communicated by Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. Sec. R.S. Read March 19 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 247 .
] The attention of most mathematicians who have treated of the attractions of bodies , has been confined to those bounded by continuous surfaces ; and Mr. Knight is not aware that any author , with the exception of Mr. Playfair , has given an example of that kind of inquiry which he here undertakes .
If a solid be bounded by plane surfaces on all sides , whether regular or irregular , he undertakes to determine its action , both in quantity and direction , upon any point placed either within or without the body .
For this purpose , the solid is first conceived to be divided into its most simple forms , of which the action can be determined separately ; and thence the collective force of the aggregate is subsequently ascertained .
The'first section treats of the attraction of planes bounded by right lines ( whether triangular , quadrangular , or polygonal ) , on points however situated .
The second section extends the same inquiry , first to pyramids , and then to solids , which may be divided into as many pyramids as there are sides .
And in the third , the attraction of pris ; ns of various forms is investigated .
Having completed this part , of the subject , Mr. Knight next applies the formulas he has obtained to find the attraction of certain complex bodies , which , though not bounded by planes , have a natural connexion with the preceding subject , having their sections in one direction of a right-lined figure , though in another direction their sections be in part curvilinear , such as the portion of a cylinder generated by the motion of a segment of a circle parallel to itself , or parabolic cylinder by similar motion of a portion of a parabola .
Under the same head , also , the author includes curvilinear pyramids , or groined solids cut from the preceding cylinders by a transverse motion of a similar or dissimilar curve , so as to have a parallelogram for their base .
| In the section which concludes this communication , the author enters into the consideration of solids of greatest attraction ; for though this subject has been already treated of , in part , by Professor Playfair and by Silvabelle , their investigations relate solely to homogeneous solids of revolution ; but Mr. Knight extends the investigation to the attractions of those solids treated of in the preceding sections , not only when the density is homogeneous , but also according to different hypotheses of varying density .

