" Electro-Physiological Researches , 5th , 6th , and 7th Series .
" By Signor Carlo Matteucci , Professor in the University of Pisa .
Communicated by Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The fifth series of these researches contains the sequel of the author 's investigations of induced contractions , which , in his third memoir , published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1845 , he had considered as being due to nervous influence acting through the muscles during their contraction , and was therefore referable to a kind of nervous induction , and not to the generation of any electric current by muscular contraction .
From the experiments related in the present paper , he is led to the conclusion that the phenomena of induced contraction belong exclusively to the muscle in the state of contraction .
He now , however , finds reason for doubting that the fact is established that induced contractions are not due to an electric discharge produced during the contraction of the muscle .
The second section of this memioir relates to the phenomena elicited by the passage of the electric current through the nerves of a living animal , or of one recently killed , according to the direction of the current .
He finds that in whatever manner the current passing through the nerve of the inverse limb is arrested , tetanic contraction is excited .
In order to produce this effect , it is sufficient to moisten the nerve with a large drop of water , or to double it back upon itself .
Phenomena perfectly analogous to those observed in frogs , may be produced in warm-blooded animals , by the action of inverse currents ; they continue , however , for a much shorter time , especially if the vitality of the animal is very great .
These phenomena clearly belong to the nerve , and have their origin in the relation , the nature of which is yet undetermined , which exists between nervous influence and the action of the electric current according to the direction of that current .
Thus a limb traversed by the direct current may be compared to a limb fatigued by repeated efforts ; the inverse current may be supposed to act in an opposite manner , and during its passage , the nervous force may accumulate in the nerve .
The facts here recorded may establish a fresh connection between nervous influence and the passage of the electric current according to its direction .
The sixth series treats of the laws of the electric discharge of the Torpedo and other electrical fishes , and of the theory of the production of electricity in these animals .
Irritations applied to any point of the body of an electrical fish are transmitted by the nerves to the fourth lobe of the brain , and are then followed by the electric discharge : the nervous action by which this discharge is determined under the influence of the will resides in that fourth , or electrical lobe of the brain ; for after the three superior cerebral lobes have been removed , the torpedo can still give the shock , either voluntarily , or by external irritations .
The separation of the two electricities which takes place in the cells of the electrical organ , under nervous influence , are instantaneously reunited by the discharge .
The strength of the current obtained during the discharge is proportional to the length of the cellular prisms included in the closed circuit .
The author concludes that the nervous force increases independently of the will with every increase in the activity of the functions of circulation and of respiration , and of every act of nutrition , and also under the influence of certain agents introduced into the system .
The seventh and last series treats of the relation that exists between the intensity of the electric current and that of the corresponding physiological effect .
A detailed account is given of the apparatus employed , and of the method of experimenting , which the author had recourse to in his researches on this branch of the subject .
The amount of the contractions produced in muscles under different circumstances of electric excitation is stated in a table which closes the paper .

