524 Dr. J. O. Wakelin Barratt .
[ July 14 , Mennes Fr ( 1897 ) " Das Antipneumokokkenserum und der Mechanismus der Immunitat desKaninchens gegen den Pneumokokkus , " ' Zeitscbrift fur Hygiene , ' vol. 25 , p. 413 .
Neufeld , F. , and Rimpau , W. ( 1904 ) .
" Uber die Antikorper des Streptokokken- und Pneumokokken-Immunserums , " 'Deutsche Medizinische Wochensclirift , ' Jahrgang 30 , p. 1458 .
Savtschenko and Melkich ( 1901 ) .
" fitude sur 1'Immunity dans le Fievre recurrente , " ' Annales de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' vol. 15 , p. 498 .
Savtschenko , J. G. ( 1902 ) .
" Du R61e des Immunesines ( Fixateurs ) dans la Phagocytose , " ' Annales de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' 1902 , vol. 16 , p. 106 .
Wright , A. E. , and Douglas , S. R. ( 1903 ) .
" An Experimental Investigation of the of the Blood Fluids in connection with Phagocytosis , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 , p. 358 .
The Phagocytosis of Red Blood-Cells .
By J. O. Wakelin Barratt , M.D. , B.Sc. Bond .
, British Medical Association Research Student .
( From the Hygienisches Institut , Munich .
Communicated by Sir Victor Horsley , F.R.S. Received July 14 , 1905 .
) It has been shown by Savtschenko , * that when an animal has received injections of red blood-cells , its serum ( inactivated by heating ) causes the appearance of phagocytosis in vitro when leucocytes and red blood-cells of the kind used for injection are added , and the whole maintained at the temperature of the body .
This action is attributed by Savtschenko to the action on the red blood-cells of amboceptor ( immunisine , fixafceur ) contained in the serum employed .
In order to obtain further information respecting the factors which determine phagocytosis in vitro of red blood-cells , a comparative examination of the action of sera of animals nearly related to , and widely separated from , those supplying the erythrocytes used for injection was undertaken .
This investigation confirmed the above observation , that leucocytes placed in the inactivated serum of injected animals ingested red blood-cells of the kind used for injection .
In the course of this investigation , however , it was found that phagocytosis could be brought about by the serum of the injected animals when the serum was free from amboceptor , for the red blood-cells injected , as the following experiment shows:\#151 ; Experiment 1.\#151 ; Into the abdominal cavity of a dove , the red blood-cells * " Du R61e des Immunesines ( Fixateurs ) dans la Phagocytose , " 'Annales de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' 1902 , vol. 16 , p. 106 .
1905 .
] The Phagocytosis of Red Blood-Cells .
from the following amounts of hen 's blood were injected : on the 1st day , 6 c.c. ; on the 6th day , 6 c.c. ; on the 15th day , 9 c.c. ; on the 38th day , 5 c.c. On the 45th day the animal was killed .
Some leucocytes from a dove , together with erythrocytes from a hen , were added to a small quantity of the serum of the injected animal .
After the lapse of an hour , at 37 ' C. , about half the leucocytes present contained one or two , or rarely more , red blood-cells .
05 c.c. of the serum of the injected animal was added to 1 c.e. of a 2'5 per cent , suspension in 0-85 per cent , sodium chloride solution of hen 's erythrocytes , and the volume of the mixture then made up to 2 c.c. by the further addition of 05 c.c. of the salt solution .
At the end of 5 minutes agglutination was complete ; at the end of 24 hours , at 37 ' C. , no trace of haemolysis was perceptible .
Smaller amounts of serum were also employed , with negative results , as far as the production of haemolysis is concerned .
It follows from this experiment , therefore , that the presence of amboceptor is not causally related to the development of phagocytosis , since phagocytosis can occur in the absence of amboceptor .
It was also found that , in most of the experiments made , agglutinin was present , and the enquiry presented itself whether agglutinin was essential to phagocytosis .
It was found , however , that in some cases phagocytosis made its appearance in sera which possessed no agglutinating power for the red blood-cells employed .
Among experiments illustrating this point are the following:\#151 ; Experiment 2.\#151 ; Into the abdominal cavity of a rabbit , the red blood-cells obtained from the following amounts of calf 's blood were injected : on the 1st day , 20 c.c. ; on the 6th day , 20 c.c. ; on the 17th day , 80 c.c. On the 24th day blood was taken from the animal and serum obtained .
To a small amount of this serum , after inactivation by heating to 58 ' C. for 30 minutes , leucocytes from the rabbit and erythrocytes from the calf were added .
At the end of half an hour at 37 ' C. , well-marked phagocytosis had occurred , about one-third of the leucocytes present having taken up one to three red blood-cells .
To test the agglutinating power of the serum , which before inactivation was strongly haemolytic , the following tests were made : to four test-tubes , each of which contained 1 c.c. of a 2*5 per cent , suspension ( in 085 per cent. NaCl solution ) , 05 c.c. , 025 c.c. , 01 c.c. , and 005 c.c. of inactivated serum respectively were added , and the bulk of fluid in each test-tube made up to 2 c.c. At the end of 24 hours , at a temperature of 37 ' , no agglutination had occurred in any of the tubes .
Experiment 3.\#151 ; Into the abdominal cavity of a guinea-pig the red blood-cells obtained from the following amounts of calf 's blood were injected : on the 1st day , 3 c.c. ; on the 3rd day , 10 c.c. ; on the 14tli day , 7 c.c. Dr. J. O. Wakelin Barratt .
[ July 14 } On the 30th day blood was taken from the animal and serum obtained .
To a small amount of this serum ( which when active was strongly haemolytic ) , after inactivation , leucocytes from the guinea-pig and erythrocytes from the calf were added .
At the end of half an hour , at 37 ' C. , one-quarter of the leucocytes present were found to contain one to three or more red blood-cells .
On testing the agglutinating power of the serum , as in the preceding experiment , no agglutination was observed in any of the test-tubes , even at the end of 24 hours .
Experiment4.\#151 ; Into the abdominal cavity of a guinea-pig the red blood-cells obtained from the following amounts of goat 's blood were injected : on the 1st day , 10 c.c. ; on the 6th day , 12 c.c. ; on the 31st day , 12 c.c. ; on the 41st day , 15 c.c. On the 49th day blood was taken from the animal and serum obtained .
To a small amount of this serum , after inactivation , leucocytes from the rabbit and erythrocytes from the goat were added .
At the end of half an hour at 37 ' C. , well-marked phagocytosis had occurred , about one-third of the leucocytes containing red blood-cells ; at the end of an hour more than three-quarters of the leucocytes had taken up red cells , which were observed to be more or less pale .
On testing the agglutinating power of the serum , as in Experiment 3 , no agglutination was observed in any of the test-tubes , even at the end of 24 hours .
From these experiments it follows that the presence of agglutinin is not a necessary factor in the production of phagocytosis .
The former of the above conclusions is confirmed by the behaviour of normal rabbit serum .
This has a marked hsemolytic action on the red blood-cells of the goat and guinea-pig .
Nevertheless in the combination : inactivated normal rabbit serum -f erythrocytes of goat -f leucocytes of rabbit , and inactivated normal rabbit serum + erythrocytes of guinea-pig + leucocytes of rabbit phagocytosis in vitro does not occur , so that in normal serum the presence of amboceptor is insufficient to bring about phagocytosis .
None of the normal sera employed possessed a powerful agglutinating action upon any of the red blood-cells employed , so that a similar demonstration of the inefficiency of agglutinin cannot be given .
Since the sera of animals into which red blood-cells have been injected is capable of bringing about phagocytosis when amboceptor and agglutinin are absent , it follows that this property of such sera is due to some special substance which is not amboceptor or agglutinin .
Respecting the nature of this special substance , the following further data are available:\#151 ; 1 .
The substance in question is , as is well known , withdrawn from the sera by red blood-cells of the kind used for injection .
1905 .
] The Phagocytosis of Red Blood-Cells .
Experiment 5.\#151 ; The serum of a rabbit , into whose peritoneal cavity red blood-cells derived from the hen had been injected was found , in the combination : inactivated serum + erythrocytes of the hen + leucocytes of rabbit , to bring about a very active phagocytosis of red blood-cells at 37 ' C. When 1 c.c. of the inactivated serum was added to the red blood-cells ( previously washed with 0'85 per cent , sodium chloride solution in order to remove serum ) of 0'25 c.c. of hen 's blood , and the whole allowed to remain three hours at 0 ' , it was found that , after removal of the red blood-cells by centri-fugalisation , the serum after the addition of erythrocytes and leucocytes as above , had lost its power of bringing about phagocytosis .
Experiment 6.\#151 ; The serum of a rabbit , into whose peritoneal cavity red blood-cells derived from the calf had been injected , was found in the combination : inactivated serum + erythrocytes of calf + leucocytes of rabbit , to bring about phagocytosis at 37 ' .
When the inactivated serum was treated with the red blood-cells of the calf , as in the preceding experiment , it was found subsequently to have lost the power of causing phagocytosis .
Experiments 7 , 8 , 9 were similarly carried out with guinea-pigs which received injections of the red blood-cells of the hen , calf , and rabbit respectively .
In each case the inactivated serum employed , which was capable of bringing about very active phagocytosis vitro , after treatment for three hours at a temperature of 15 ' C. with one-quarter of its volume of red blood-cells of the kind used for injection , was found to have lost its power of bringing about phagocytosis in vitro .
Thus the material , the existence of which in serum confers on the latter the property of exciting phagocytosis , combines with , or attaches itself to , the corresponding red blood-cells , and can therefore be withdrawn from the serum in the same way as amboceptor or agglutinin .
2 .
On the other hand , as the following experiments show , this material is not , in the same period of time , withdrawn from serum to the same extent by leucocytes .
Experiment 10.\#151 ; To 0'3 c.c. of the serum employed in Experiment 6 , leucocytes from the rabbit , occupying ( after centrifugalisation ) a volume of about 0*3 c.c. , were added .
After remaining at a temperature of 37 ' for three hours , the mixture was centrifugalised and to a portion of the supernatant liquid , fresh leucocytes from the rabbit and red blood-cells from the hen , were added .
At the end of an hour at 37 ' C. , phagocytosis was found to have taken place , about 20 per cent , of the leucocytes present having ingested one to three red blood-cells .
Experiment 11.\#151 ; The above experiment was repeated with the serum employed in Experiment 7 , about 0'2 c.c. leucocytes being added to 0'2 c.c. vol. lxxvi.\#151 ; b. 2 N 528 Dr. J. O. Wakelin Barratt .
[ July 14 , serum .
On testing the phagocytic power of the serum by adding to it , at the end of three hours , leucocytes from the rabbit and red blood-cells from the calf , it was found that at the end of one hour , at 37 ' , about 25 per cent , of the leucocytes had taken up one to four red blood-cells .
Experiments 12 and 13.\#151 ; These were similarly carried out with the serum of guinea-pigs , which had received intraperitoneal injections of red blood-cells of the calf and rabbit respectively .
After the sera had been treated for three hours at 37 ' with an equal bulk of leucocytes from the guinea-pig , it was found on testing their phagocytic power that , at the end of an hour , 20 per cent , and 75 per cent , respectively of the leucocytes had taken up red blood-cells .
The rdle of the leucocytes , therefore , appears to be passive so long as the substance in question remains free in the serum , and only when a combination with red blood-cells has occurred do the leucocytes proceed to ingest the latter .
Moreover , in experiments upon phagocytosis leucocytes other than those of the animal employed for injection of red blood-cells , may often be used .
Thus it was found that when rabbits had been injected with red blood-cells from the hen or guinea-pig , their sera induced phagocytosis of red blood-cells of the kind injected , when leucocytes from the guinea-pig , goat , or sheep , instead of the rabbit , were used for experiment .
In the same way with serum obtained from a goat injected with red blood-cells of the sheep , phagocytosis of the latter vitro could be obtained with leucocytes from the rabbit , guinea-pig , sheep , or dove ; and such examples can be multiplied .
3 .
When red blood-cells which have remained for some time in a serum capable of bringing about phagocytosis in vitro , are very thoroughly washed in 0'85 per cent , sodium chloride solution and then added to leucocytes suspended in saline solution , rapid phagocytosis may be obtained though the fluid employed is free from serum .
It is essential in experiments of this kind that the serum used does not agglutinate the red blood-cells , for when the latter are heaped together phagocytosis cannot be satisfactorily observed .
With the sera employed for Experiments 8 and 9 , no agglutination occurred when red blood-cells from the calf and rabbit respectively were allowed to remain in four times their bulk of serum for one hour at 37 ' .
After washing in saline solution and adding guinea-pig leucocytes , it was found that , at the end of 30 minutes at 37 ' C. , 20 to 25 per cent , of the leucocytes had each taken up one to four red blood-cells .
Still more rapid phagocytosis was obtained with red blood-cells of the calf and goat which had been similarly sensibilised with sera obtained from rabbits which had previously been several times injected with these varieties of red blood-cells .
1905 .
] The Phagocytosis oj Red Blood-Cells .
529 4 .
The special constituent of serum which possesses the property of inducing phagocytosis is destroyed by heating .
Experiment 14.\#151 ; The sera of three rabbits which were capable when diluted with four parts of saline solution of exciting active phagocytosis of the red blood-cells of the hen , calf , and goat respectively , were heated in the dilution of 1 in 5 for 30 minutes to 100 ' C. A slightly milky fluid free from precipitate was thus in each case obtained which , on testing , was found to have lost its power of causing phagocytosis .
The sera of three guinea-pigs , injected with red blood-cells of the hen , calf , and rabbit respectively , were similarly found to have lost their power of causing phagocytosis , after 30 minutes exposure to 100 ' .
Experiment 15.\#151 ; The six sera employed in the preceding experiment were heated , undiluted , to 69 ' for 30 minutes .
All remained clear with the exception of two of the guinea-pig sera , which became slightly opaque and distinctly viscid .
With these two no phagocytosis was obtainable ; with the remaining sera phagocytosis was obtainable , but was not so vigorous as with unheated serum .
It appears , therefore , that while a temperature of 100 ' rapidly destroys the phagocytic action of- serum , a temperature of 69 ' is much less effective .
5 .
The above characters serve to define the nature of the special con stituent of serum which confers upon it the property of bringing about phagocytosis of red blood-cells , and show that its rdle is to prepare these cells for consumption by leucocytes .
It is therefore a member of the group of opsonines first described by Wright and Douglas* in respect of bacteria .
In conclusion , it may be mentioned that erythrocytic opsonines are present in relatively small amount in normal sera .
Thus , with the inactivated sera of the sheep , goat , dove , and hen , phagocytosis of the red blood-cells of the calf , goat , sheep , rabbit , and guinea-pig may , by suitably adjusting the conditions of experiment , be readily obtained .
In the following experiment this is illustrated : in A the red blood-cells are insufficiently sensitised , so that no phagocytosis takes place , as is also the case in D , where the serum is apparently completely deopsinated ; in F , on the other hand , owing to the relatively small amount of red blood-cells employed , the serum employed still retains sufficient opsonin to cause the appearance of phagocytosis when fresh red blood-cells are added .
* " The Role of the Blood Fluids in connection with Phagocytosis , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , 1904 , vol. 72 , p. 357 ; cp .
" On the Nature of the Opsonic Action of the Blood Serum .
" W. Bulloch and E. E. Atkiu , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1905 , vol. 74 , p. 379 .
2 n 2 o30 The Phagocytosis of Bed Blood-Cells .
Experiment 16 .
\#151 ; The following mixtures\#151 ; A. B. C. Inactivated serum of normal dove ... OT c.c. OT c.c. OT c.c. Eed blood-cells of guinea-pig ... . .
0-025 c.c. 0*005 c.c. 0*0015 c.c. were kept ( with constant shaking ) at 30 ' C. for 2J hours .
To a loopful of A , B , and C respectively , a few leucocytes from the dove were added ; at the end of one hour none of the leucocytes added to A contained red blood-cells , while 15 and 20 per cent , respectively of those added to B and C contained red blood-cells .
A , B , and C were now centrifugalised , and to the cell free sera fresh red blood-cells of the guinea-pig and leucocytes of the dove added ( D , E , E respectively ) ; at the end of an hour , at 37 ' C. , in D , none of the leucocytes contained red blood-cells , in E and F , 1 and 20 per cent , respectively of the leucocytes contained red blood-cells .

