310 On the Absorption and Reflection of Homogeneous By W. Wilson , B.A. , M.Sc .
, Wollaston Research Student , Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge ; 1851 Exhibition Scholar of the University of Manchester . .
( Communicated by Sir J. J. Thomson , O.M. , F.R.S. Received June 19 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) The following paper is divided into two parts .
The first deals with the absorption , and the second with scattering or reflection of beams of homogeneous / 3-particles:\#151 ; I. The Absorption of Homogeneous / 3-Particles by Matter .
Introduction.\#151 ; Three years ago it was shown by the author* that homogeneous / 3-particles are not absorbed by matter according to an exponential law , but according to a law in which the rate of absorption increases with the thickness of matter traversed .
The experiments were repeated by Crowther , *J* who used more homogeneous rays , and found a still greater deviation from the exponential law .
How the absorption coefficient of / 3-particles increases with decreasing velocities of the rays , which suggests that there is a diminution in the velocity of the / 3-particles as they penetrate matter .
Experiments proving this point were made by the author } and Crowther , S and later by v. Bayer , Hahn , and Miss Meitner .
|| It was further shown that the exponential law of absorption found for a beam of rays emitted by a single radioactive substance can be explained by assuming that the numbers of particles composing the beam are distributed according to some special law with respect to their velocity .
CrowtherlT found that homogeneous rays are absorbed by platinum according to an exponential law , and , further , that rays initially homogeneous which have passed through a small thickness of platinum are absorbed according to this law by aluminium .
He attributed the departure from the exponential law in the case of the direct absorption by aluminium to the fact that the rays striking the absorbing screens were not " completely scattered .
" On this view , the rays strike the first sheet of aluminium * W. Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1909 , A , vol. 82 .
t Crowther , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 15 , p. 5 , and ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , A , vol. 84 .
+ Loc .
cit. , and ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , A , vol. 84 .
S Crowther , loc. cit. || v. Bayer , Hahn , and Meitner , 'Pliys .
Zeit .
' January , 1911 .
IT Crowther , 'Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 15 , p. 5 , and 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , A , vol. 84 .
Absorption and Reflection of Homogeneous ft-Particles .
311 approximately at right angles , but on penetrating it are scattered , and become , on the average , inclined at an angle to the normal .
On this account the second layer produces relatively more absorption than the first , and this continues for successive layers until a state of complete scattering is reached , when the absorption takes place according to an exponential law .
This final steady state is reached with light substances such as aluminium only after the rays have penetrated to a considerable distance , while with heavy substances like platinum it is reached after the rays have passed through a very thin layer .
This explanation , however , is unsatisfactory , and does not hold for rays such as those from radium E , which , under normal conditions , are absorbed according to an exponential law , for Gray and Wilson* have shown that when these rays are allowed to impinge normally on aluminium the exponential law of absorption still holds after the rays have passed through the first thin layer , and that the deviation from this law observed in the first sheet is in the opposite direction to that observed in the experiments made with homogeneous rays .
Further , it is difficult to see how the observed decrease in velocity as the rays penetrate matter can occur if they are absorbed according to an exponential lawT , for the essential feature of this law is that the absorption coefficient remains constant no matter how much of the absorbing medium the rays have passed through , and , as pointed out above , the decrease in velocity must be accompanied by an increase in the absorption coefficient .
The alternative explanation offered is that in their passage through matter some of the particles undergo more violent encounters with the atoms they traverse than others , and there is therefore a tendency for the beam to become heterogeneous .
This proceeds until a definite state of equilibrium is reached , when the further passage of the beam through matter produces no alteration in its properties , and the beam is then absorbed according to an exponential law .
It is interesting to note that in such abeam the distribution of numbers of the rays composing it with respect to velocity would not alter as it penetrated matter , the greater absorption of the rays of lower velocity being compensated by the decrease in velocity of the more rapid rays , and we should expect experiments to show little or no decrease in average velocity of the rays comprising the whole beam .
Experiments showing such results have been made by Schmidtf and v. Bayer , Hahn and Meitner4 * Gray and Wilson , ' Phil. Mag. , ' November , 1910 .
t Schmidt , 'Phys .
Zeit .
, ' 1907 , vol. 8 .
f v. Bayer , Hahn , and Meitner , loc. cit. 312 Mr. W. Wilson .
Absorption and [ June 19 , The observed facts can also be explained by the production of secondary / 3-radiation as the rays penetrate matter , and this point will be referred to later .
The points outlined above are dealt with in the following experiments:\#151 ; Apparatus and Method of Experiment.\#151 ; The method used was similar in principle to that of the earlier experiments , homogeneous / 3-rays being used , which were separated out by means of a magnetic field from the heterogeneous beam given out by radium B and C. The source of radiation was 30 mgrm .
of radium bromide in equilibrium with its disintegration products .
The specimen was rather impure , and steps had to be taken to eliminate the effects due to the y-rays , which were very strong .
The final form of apparatus used is shown in fig. 1 .
Fig. 1 .
The radium , A , which was contained in a glass tube , was surrounded by lead screens B and C. The / 3-rays from it entered a magnetic field , which was at right angles to the plane of the diagram , and described circular paths , some passing through a circular hole D in a lead screen , and into the opening E of a channel F in an iron block G. The diameters of the hole D , and of the ends of the channel , were 0*8 cm .
The length of the iron block was 6'5 cm .
, and a comparatively pure beam of rays was obtained , which impinged normally on screens of various metals , which were placed in its path by means of the slide H. The radius of curvature of the path of the rays which came under observation was 3'5 cm .
The iron block was secured to the pole-pieces of the electromagnet by means of the brass angle-pieces J. 1912 .
] Reflection of Homogeneous After traversing the channel , the / 9-particles entered the hemispherical copper ionisation vessel K ( 8 cm .
diameter ) , whose base wras closed by a thin sheet of aluminium leaf .
A central electrode passed from this vessel through an ebonite plug L , which was surrounded by an earthed conductor , and through a second cylindrical ionisation vessel M to a tilted electroscope Q , whose sensibility was of the order 40 scale divisions per volt .
The electrode could be connected to earth or insulated by means of the key N. The vessel K was maintained at a positive potential of about 200 volts by means of a battery of 100 small accumulators .
This voltage was much more than sufficient to produce saturation with the strengths of ionisation employed .
The vessel M and the plate of the gold leaf electroscope were connected to the negative pole of a similar battery , the other pole of which was earthed .
In order that the sensibility of the instrument should not vary during the course of an experiment , the potential on the plate of the gold leaf electrometer was kept constant by means of a potential divider .
The size of the vessel M was so arranged that the ionisation in it due to the 7-rays from the radium was approximately the same as that due to the 7-radiation in K. The walls of the vessels being maintained at high potentials of opposite sign , the ionisation currents in them were approximately equal and opposite , so that when no / 9-radiation was allowed to enter the vessel K , the rate of motion of the gold leaf in the electroscope was very slow .
In this way the 7-ray effect was to some extent eliminated .
The arrangement worked very well when the cells were constant , but slight variations in the voltage produced errors of considerable magnitude .
Experiments were made to test for errors due to an ionisation leak in the small chamber containing the key 1ST , but it was found that in general this was small and only needed to be taken into consideration when the ionisations in the two chambers were nearly balanced .
The method of making an experiment was as follows:\#151 ; By means of the slide H a small sheet of aluminium of sufficient thickness ( 3 mm. ) to absorb all the / 9-radiation was inserted in the path of the rays and the rate of motion of the gold leaf determined when the central electrode was insulated .
The aluminium screen was then removed and the / 3-radiation allowed to enter the ionisation vessel .
The rate of motion of the gold leaf was again determined , and the difference between this reading and that obtained with the thick sheet of aluminium in position is a measure of the intensity of the / 9-rays , since the aluminium screen is so small that it does not absorb the 7-rays to any appreciable extent .
Sheets of aluminium of different thicknesses were placed in the path of 314 Mr. W. Wilson .
Absorption and [ June 19 , the rays by means of the slide , and by measuring the intensity of the transmitted / 3-radiation in each case the absorption curve for the / 3-particles could be determined .
By altering the current passing through the coils of the electromagnet / 3-particles of different speeds could be brought under consideration .
The magnetic fields were measured by means of a Grassot fluxmeter , and the velocity of the particles deduced from the product of the magnetic field and radius of curvature by means of the equations the latter being required to correct for the increase in mass of a corpuscle as its velocity approaches that of light .
H is the field strength , p the radius of curvature of the path of the rays , v the velocity of the rays , and c that of light .
The value of e/ m0 was taken as l'74x 107 E.M.U.* Results.\#151 ; The results obtained showed the same disagreement with the exponential law as those previously obtained by the writer and by Crowther .
The absorption curves for aluminium which are shown in fig. 2 approximate Thickness of Aluminium .
Fig. 2 .
a. Yel .
= 2-88 x 1010 cm .
per sec. [ b. Yel .
= 2'84 x 1010 cm .
per sec. c. Yel .
= 2'63 x 1010 cm .
per sec. more closely to those obtained by the latter .
They show that , measured by the ionisation method , the absorption at first is very slow .
In fact for the quickest rays examined the ionisation not only shows no sign of diminution until a considerable amount of aluminium has been placed in its path , * Bucherer , ' Phys. Zeit .
, ' 1908 , p. 755 .
Reflection of Homogeneous ft-Particles .
1912 .
] but also a slight but perceptible increase when the rays have passed through thin sheets .
For these rays the ionisation only falls by 5 per cent , when the rays have passed through 0*5 mm. of aluminium .
It is interesting to compare this with the absorption by the same amount of matter of some of the rapid rays given out by radioactive bodies .
Thus for the quickest group of rays given out by radium C the intensity would have been diminished by 48 per cent. , while for the quick group given out by uranium X it would have fallen to less than half value .
Curves were also obtained for the absorption of homogeneous rays by tin and copper , and examples are given in fig. 3 , the velocity of the rays being Amount of absorbing matter in 1/ 10 grm. per cm .
Fig. 3 .
Velocity of rays = 2'63xl010 cm .
per sec. a. Aluminium , b. \#169 ; Copper , c. + Tin .
the same in each case .
The amount of absorbing matter is given in grammes per square centimetre , and it will be seen that although the curves are similar to those obtained for aluminium the absorption takes place at a more rapid rate for these elements , the initial period of slow absorption being less marked .
The absorption curves thus obtained can be explained in two ways .
( 1 ) The rays pass through the first sheets of matter without being much affected by the atoms they encounter in their path , the encounters are not sufficiently violent to produce a complete stoppage of the particles .
They are , however , slowed down , and the rays striking subsequent layers are still further reduced in speed until a velocity is reached when an appreciable number of the rays are absorbed on traversing the atoms .
Actual stoppage of the numbers of particles then takes place , the rate of absorption increasing as the average velocity decreases .
The average velocity does not appear to Mr. W. Wilson .
Absorption and [ June 19 , decrease indefinitely , the whole beam becoming heterogeneous and a final steady state being reached when the distribution of the rays with respect to velocity in the beam does not alter with the amount of matter penetrated .
The initial rise of the curves obtained with the very fast rays is due to the increased ionising power per centimetre path of the rays as they decrease in velocity .
( 2 ) The homogeneous / 3-rays themselves are absorbed according to an exponential law , but on absorption produce a quantity of secondary radiation of slightly slower type than the primary .
This in turn produces a still slower type of tertiary radiation , and we finally obtain a state of equilibrium in which the proportion of the number of particles of any definite velocity to the number of particles in the whole beam remains constant .
The absorption would then take place according to an exponential law .
The second case is practically included in the first , for we have , at present , no experiments which help us to decide between real secondary and scattered primary rays .
The first case necessarily would involve a continuous distribution of the particles with regard to speed when the equilibrium value has been obtained , while in the second we have nothing to tell us whether the distribution of the rays would be continuous or discontinuous .
The recent remarkable photographs of the paths of / 3-particles through gases , made by C. T. E. Wilson , * show that the / 3-particle ionises continuously along its path and apparently not by sudden jumps .
This suggests that there is a continuous loss of energy along the path of the / 3-particle , and affords strong confirmation of the first view given above .
Further , no mention was made of any branch lines in these photographs , which would occur if the / 3-particles had the power of producing secondary rays with velocities at all comparable with their own .
It is important to note that in both cases it follows that in order to obtain an exponential law of absorption we must have a heterogeneous beam .
Experiments were next made on particles , originally homogeneous , which had passed through 0003 cm .
of platinum to test the correctness of the hypothesis advanced above to account for their exponential law of absorption .
Particles of velocity 2-63 x 1010 cm./ sec. , corresponding to a value of Hp3090 gauss cm .
, were used .
The rays were allowed to pass through the sheet of platinum immediately before falling on the absorbing screens of aluminium , and the curve obtained is shown in fig. 4 ( b ) , the curve for the rays passing directly through aluminium being given for comparison , fig. 4 ( a ) .
The two curves are very different , and * C. T. R. Wilson , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , vol. 85 .
Reflection of Homogeneous .
1912 .
] as will be seen from fig. 5 ( b ) , where the logarithm of the ionisation is plotted against the thickness of matter traversed , the absorption of the rays which have passed through the platinum takes place according to an exponential law .
.2 6o c *03 04 -05 Thickness of Aluminium .
Fig. 4 .
2-00 1-20 1-00 12 -03 -04 *05 Thickness of Aluminium .
Fig. 5 .
The platinum sheet was then placed in a slit P in the iron block G- ( fig. 1 ) , so arranged that the / 3-rays were intercepted after they had traversed only 2 cm .
of the tube .
Many of the particles were scattered into the side of the tube and the effect of the ionisation in K was considerably reduced .
The absorption curve for the transmitted rays was determined as before by interposing sheets of aluminium in the path in the slide H. VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; a. z 318 Mr. W. Wilson .
Absorption and [ June 19 , " Now , owing to the large distance in the channel the rays had to travel after emerging from the platinum , those which strike the absorbing screens do so approximately at right angles , and it is easily seen that if the difference between the curves a and b , figs. 4 and 5 , is due to mere scattering of the ^-particles by the platinum , the absorption curve obtained in the present case should approximate to the former , while if the difference in the curves is due to the fact that as the / 3-particles traverse the platinum the beam is rendered heterogeneous the curve obtained should approximate to the latter .
The means of a large number of curves thus obtained are shown in figs. 4 and 5 , curves c , which are obviously in much better agreement with the curves b than with the curves a. In fact b and are identical , as will be seen from fig. 5 , except for the absorption in the first sheet of aluminium .
This difference is to be expected since in the curve b the pencil of rays striking the aluminium is diffuse , while in the curve c it is parallel .
Thus / 3-particles initially homogeneous after passing through platinum are absorbed in a different manner to the original beam , and we have shown that this difference is not due to mere scattering of the rays .
The only other way in which the beam can have altered is in respect to its homogeneity , and we therefore conclude that after passing through the platinum the numbers of the particles are distributed in such a manner with respect to their velocity that the whole beam is absorbed according to an exponential law .
II .
The Reflection of Homogeneous / 3- .
We have seen that the method of absorption of homogeneous / 3-particles may be explained in two ways , either by assuming a gradual decrease in the average velocity of the whole beam , during which process the beam is rendered heterogeneous , a steady state being finally reached when the absorption takes place according to an exponential law , or by assuming that homogeneous / 3-partieles are absorbed according to an exponential law , but produce on their disappearance a number of secondary particles whose number must be comparable to the number of particles absorbed and whose velocity is not very different from that of the primary beam .
In the course of some experiments on the scattering of the / 3-particles emitted by uranium X* it was found that the scattered radiation could be split up into two parts , one very easily absorbed , and the other with absorption coefficient not very different from that of the primary beam .
McClellandf had earlier concluded from some experiments on the reflection of / 3-rays that in addition to a reflected radiation there is a * W. Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. ' Read May 9 , 1912 .
t McClelland , * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1908 , A , vol. 80 .
Reflection of Homogeneous 1912 .
] production of real secondary radiation , and these experiments appear to uphold this view .
It must be remembered , however , that the primary rays used were heterogeneous , and the two types of rays observed may correspond roughly to the reflected particles from the slower and quicker portions of the primary beam .
Similar experiments with homogeneous beams would throw much light on this problem , but could not be performed with the radium available .
Experiments were therefore made using homogeneous rays to determine the variation of the amount of reflected radiation with thickness of the reflector .
If there is any large amount of slow radiation produced it should be made evident by a rapid rise in the reflected radiation for the first sheet of aluminium of such thickness as that used in the present experiments .
If there is no such formation of a slow secondary radiation but merely a gradual scattering of the primary beam the initial rise should be much less abrupt .
Apparatus.\#151 ; The apparatus used was similar to that described in the first part of the paper and is shown diagrammatically in fig. 6 .
\#163 ; \lt ; 3 , rCh Fig. 6 .
Fig. 6a .
Homogeneous rays which had been sorted out by a magnetic field traversed the hole F in the iron block G. They then passed through the ionisation vessel C , which was a circular brass box 8 cm .
diameter , 3 cm .
deep , with flat ends .
In one of the ends there was a hole 2 cm .
in diameter closed by a thin sheet of aluminium leaf , while the other had a large square hole 5'3 cm .
side , which was also closed by a thin sheet of the same leaf .
This vessel is shown separately in fig. 6a .
A central electrode passed from this vessel through an ebonite plug , through a second ionisation chamber M , and thence to a gold leaf electroscope .
The method of balancing the 7-ray action as used in the absorption experiments was first tried .
With this arrangement of apparatus , however , Mr. W. Wilson .
Absorption and [ June 19 , the chamber E containing the earthing key was brought much nearer to the source of radiation , and the leak in it due to the 7-ray effect necessitated the application of a considerable correction when the ionisations in C and M were nearly equal .
To overcome this a steady deflection method was used .
The vessels M and E were connected to earth and the vessel C charged to a potential of 200 volts .
When the central electrode was insulated the ionisation current in C caused its potential to rise .
Owing to the rise of potential of the electrode an ionisation current of the reverse sign to that in C passed in the vessels M and E , which increased till the voltage on the electrode was such that this current was the same as that in C. When this stage was reached the gold leaf of the electrometer took up a steady position .
The electroscope was so arranged that it was very sensitive , of the order 200 divisions per volt in the steady position .
The earthing key was connected to a potential divider whereby its potential , and through it that of the central electrode , could be brought to any desired value and the potential corresponding to that of the steady position measured directly .
To calibrate the apparatus the central electrode was cut off at the ebonite stopper between C and M and the ionisation current determined for various voltages applied to the vessels M and E. From the results thus obtained we can determine the ionisation current for any voltage on the central electrode , and hence the ionisation corresponding to the steady state .
This method gives much more accurate results for small ionisations such as we are measuring than the method used in the first part of the paper .
We get rid of all errors due to changes induced by slight alterations in the potential of the cells , which are always present when slow readings are being taken .
All errors due to changes of sensibility of the electroscope are avoided , since the potential is measured directly each time a reading is made , and further no corrections have to be applied for ionisation leaks such as that in the vessel E. The method of making an experiment was as follows:\#151 ; The / 3-rays were allowed to pass through the ionisation vessel C and the intensity of the ionisation determined as above .
This ionisation is due to the / 3- and 7-rays .
A sheet of aluminium of sufficient thickness to absorb the / 3-rays was then placed in their path by means of the slide J and a second reading of the ionisation current taken .
The difference of these two readings gives the ionisation due to the / 3-particles alone .
By means of the clamps A , A , fig. 6a , a sheet of aluminium of any desired thickness was next screwed tightly to the back of the vessel C. The difference of two readings similar to the above gives us the effect due both to the primary / 3-rays and to the rays reflected by the sheet of aluminium , and 1912 .
] Reflection of Homogeneous / 9- .
knowing the intensity of the / 9-radiation alone we can determine the intensity of the reflected radiation .
By making experiments with screens of different thicknesses the connection between the amount of reflected radiation and the thickness of the reflector was determined .
From the number of readings in these experiments in which differences occur it will be seen that very accurate measurements were necessary .
The final results were arrived at by taking the means of a large number of reflection curves .
For the two which have been done most exactly ( Hp = 3090 and H p \#151 ; 4270 respectively ) , about twenty experiments were taken to obtain each curve .
Since the initial portions of the curves are of great importance several experiments were performed on this point alone .
Results.\#151 ; The results obtained using rays of widely different velocities are shown in fig. 7 , in which curves a , b , c and d correspond to rays having velocities 2*14 , 2*63 , 2*78 and 2'88 x 1010 cm./ sec. respectively .
.02 *03 -04 '05 -06 Thickness of Aluminium Reflector .
Fig. 7 .
It is more convenient to discuss these results with reference to some further experiments which were made with rays which had first passed through a sheet of platinum .
As in the absorption experiments there is a great difference between the curves obtained for these rays and those for homogeneous rays .
Fig. 8 shows the reflection curves for the two types of rays , the original velocity being 2*63 x 1010 cm .
per sec. We have seen that rays originally of this speed are absorbed according to an exponential law after passing through a small thickness of platinum with absorption coefficient 42'5 cm.-1 , which is approximately that of the radium E rays .
It was therefore thought to be of interest to compare the reflection curve obtained with that of the reflection of the rays given out by radium E. Mr. W. Wilson .
Absorption and [ June 19 , A reflection curve was therefore determined for the rays from a sample of radium E kindly lent to me by Prof. Eutherford .
This curve is shown in fig. 8 and will be seen to agree very well with that for rays which have passed through a sheet of platinum , and we may therefore conclude that rays originally of velocity about 2'63 x 10A0 cm .
per sec. can be transformed into rays similar to those given out by radium E. It is interesting to note that the velocity of the original homogeneous rays was that corresponding to H p = 3090 gauss cm .
, while the mean velocity of the rays from radium E is that corresponding to H p = 2200.* O -OX -02*03 .O'J '05 COT .
Thickness of Aluminium Reflector .
Fig. 8 .
a. Homogeneous rays .
b. Rays from radium E. c. Rays which have passed through 0'003 cm .
platinum .
Now it will be noticed that the amount of radiation reflected by thin sheets of aluminium is much greater for the rays which have passed through platinum than for those which have not , and it has been shown in a previous paper that the radiation reflected when the rays from uranium X , which are absorbed according to an exponential law , are allowed to fall on thin sheets of aluminium consists largely of rays of a very absorbable type .
These rays correspond to the radiation reflected when thin sheets of aluminium are bombarded by rays which have passed through platinum , and , since the amount reflected is great compared with that reflected by the same sheets when homogeneous rays are used , the increased amount of reflection must be due to the reflection of the slower parts of the primary beam .
We are thus brought to the conclusion that the experiments recorded in the previous paper do not uphold the view that any real secondary radiation is produced * Schmidt , loc. cit\gt ; ; Gray and Wilson , loc. cit. Reflection of Homogeneous 1912 .
] when / 3-particles strike a screen , the two types of rays given off being due to the heterogeneity of the primary beam .
General Discussion .
We can use the experiments on absorption and reflection given above to enquire more deeply into the probability of the production of secondary rays .
If we add the ionisation produced by the reflected rays from a thin sheet of aluminium to that of the transmitted radiation we obtain the ionisation produced by the rays which have not been absorbed by the material .
Now knowing the initial velocity of the rays , we can determine their mean velocity after they have passed through a given thickness of matter.* The variation of the ionising power with the velocity is also known , f and by applying these two factors we can calculate the numbers of particles emerging from both sides of a thin plate which is bombarded by the / 9-rays .
A separate experiment was attempted in which the amount of / 3-radiation reflected by a thin plate was determined after the primary rays had passed through various thicknesses of aluminium , but owing to the scattering of the rays by the absorbing screen and the small amount of / 3-radiation available no consistent results could be obtained .
The numbers of particles actually absorbed by sheets of aluminium of various thicknesses were therefore determined from the curves already obtained for absorption and reflection of the rays .
Eesults obtained are given in Table I. Table I. Thickness of screen .
V elocity of emergent rays .
Sum of reflected and transmitted radiations .
Sum of reflected and transmitted rays corrected for velocity .
cm .
i 1010 cm .
per sec. .
o-oo 2-63 100 100 o-oi 2-59 104 100-5 0-02 2 '55 100 94 0-03 2-50 88 79 0*00 2*84 100 100 o-oi 2-83 104 102 0-02 2-82 106 102 0-03 2 -80 106 101 0-04 2 79 104 98 0-05 2 77 98 90 o-oo 2-88 100 100 o-oi 2-87 103 101 0-02 2 -86 105 -5 102 0 *03 2*85 106 100 0-04 2 -84 106 100 0-05 2 -82 105 1 98 * W. Wilson , loc. cit. t W. Wilson , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , vol. 85 .
324 Mr. W. Wilson .
Absorption and [ June 19 , It will be seen that for the rays of high velocity the number emerging from a thin sheet of aluminium is approximately equal to the number impinging on it .
From this it follows that the amount of secondary radiation , if it exists at all , must for these velocities be equal to the amount of primary radiation absorbed , and there is apparently no means of distinguishing it from the scattered radiation .
It is then simplest to assume that all the radiation given out by a body exposed to / 3-particles is due to rays which have been scattered by the atoms they have encountered .
A further point of interest is that yS-rays of high velocity can penetrate a comparatively large amount of matter without any appreciable number of them being absorbed .
The mechanism of the absorption therefore can be taken as consisting of an initial slowing down of some of the rays by the matter they encounter in their path , which process continues till some of the rays are moving sufficiently slowly to be capable of absorption by collision with an atom of the absorbing medium .
It was thought to be of interest to determine as above the numbers of particles transmitted by the absorbing screens by correcting the ionisation curves for decrease in velocity and variation of the ionising power with velocity .
Curves obtained in this way are shown in fig. 9 .
ioo .06 -o8 *io Thickness of Aluminium .
Fig. 9 .
a. Yel .
= 2'88 x 1010 cm .
per sec. b. Vel .
= 2*84 x 1010 cm .
per sec. c. Vel .
= 2'63 x 1010 cm .
per sec. 1912 .
] Reflection of Homogeneous Conclusion .
Curves representing the absorption of homogeneous / 3-rays by aluminium , tin , and copper have been obtained .
It has been shown that / 3-ray beams of high velocity can penetrate considerable quantities of matter without appreciable reduction in intensity as measured by the ionisation method .
The fact that / 3-rays , initially homogeneous , are absorbed by aluminium according to an exponential law after passing through a small thickness of platinum has been confirmed , and it has been shown that this is not due to mere scattering of the rays but to the fact that the beam is rendered heterogeneous in its passage through the platinum .
The reflection of homogeneous rays by aluminium has been studied and it has been shown that the slow rays reflected when the rays from uranium X strike matter are due to reflection of the slower portion of the primary beam .
By a combination of the results obtained for reflection and absorption of homogeneous rays , it has been shown that there is no necessity to assume any production of real secondary radiation when / 3-rays strike matter , the reflected beam consisting merely of particles which have been scattered by the atoms they have encountered in their path .
There is apparently no abrupt stoppage of / 3-particles of high speed , or if there is it is accompanied by the ejection of an equal number of secondary rays which are indistinguishable from the particles which are merely scattered .
The absorption curves for homogeneous rays have been corrected for decrease in velocity as they pass through matter , and curves are given in which the number of / 3-particles transmitted is plotted against the thickness of matter traversed .
I wish to thank Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for the kind interest he has taken in these experiments .

