A Method of drawing extremely fine Wires .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read February 18 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 114 .
] The author refers to Musschenbroek for an instance of a gold wire , recorded to have been drawn by an artist at Augsburg so fine , that one grain of it would have the length of 500 feet .
It is not said how this was effected , and some doubt has been entertained of the possibility of it ; but the author of this paper shows how gold may be drawn to the same degree of fineness , and also that platina may be made with great facility much finer than is above described .
The general principle of the method is the same for both .
The metal intended to be drawn is first reduced , in the common mode , to a wire of about -Toth of an inch in diameter ; and it is then coated with silver , so as to form a rod of considerable thickness .
The rod is then drawn , as usual , till it is reduced to a slender wire , and it is presumed that the gold or platina contained in it is reduced in the same proportion as the silver .
By steeping for a few minutes in nitrous acid the silver is then dissolved ; but the gold or platina remain unaffected , and require merely to be washed in distilled water in order to free them from any portion of the solution or other little impurities that may adhere during the solution .
The method employed by the author for coating gold wire is attended with more difficulty than he expected .
A rod of silver having been previously drawn of considerable thickness , a hole was drilled through it longitudinally , and into this hole a gold wire was inserted so as to fill the hole .
But in consequence of the toughness of fine silver , the operation of drilling was found extremely difficult , and this method was afterwards abandoned .
It was found that platina might be advantageously substituted for gold , as in that case the first drawn wire might be coated with silver by fixing it in the axis of a cylindrical mould , and then pouring melted silver to fill the mould .
The platina employed for this purpose was fused by the flame of a spirit lamp impelled by a current of oxygen , as contrived by Dr. Marcet : this platina having then been drawn alone to a wire.--4 of an inch in diameter , it received a coating of silver that was just 80 times the thickness of the platina : accordingly when the silver was reduced by drawing to of an inch in diameter , that of the platina was I-7 ; but nevertheless it remained surprisingly tenacious in proportion to its substance .
The greatest relative tenacity is however thought to have been at about T-sof an inch , which supported 1-grain before it broke .
Accordingly this wire admitted being drawn considerably finer , and the author has even obtained portions as slender as -3fof an inch ; but these were only in very short pieces , being in many places interrupted so that he could place no reliance upon any trials of their tenacity .
Some precautions are added respecting the method of freeing these wires from their coating of silver , with the recommendation of some little contrivances which the author has found convenient in handling objects so liable to be injured .

