]\gt ; May 3 , 1888 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents reccived were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair as follows : \mdash ; Andrews , Thomas , F.R. S.E. Boitomley , James Thomson , M.A. Boys , Charles Vernon .
Church , Arthur Herbert , M.A. Greenhill , Professor Alfred George , M.A. Jervois , Sir bVilliam ncis Drummond , Lieut.-Gen .
R.E. Lapworth , Professor Charles , .
D. Parker , Professor T. Jeffery .
ofessor John M.A. Ramsay , William , Ph. D. eale , Thomas , F.R.C.S. Topley , William , F.G.S. Trimen , Henry , M.B. Ward , Professor M.A. White , William Henry , M.I.C.E. The Right Hon. John Hay Athohose certificate had been snspcnded as required by the Statutes , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The pers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On the Induction of Electric Currents in Shells of small By S. H. BURBURY , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by H. W. VATSON , D.Sc .
, F.B.S. Received 1888 .
( Abstract .
) 1\mdash ; 4 .
Definition of current sheets , current shells , superficial , and ourrent function .
5 .
Expression for the vector potential of the currents in a sheet .
6 .
ixpression for the energy of a system of current eets in ' of the current function and magnetic potential , .
:\mdash ; XL1Y .
Mr. S. H. Burbury .
On the lnduction of [ May 3 , where is the current function , the magnetic potential , and the rate of its variation per unit of length of the normal .
7 .
The magnetic induction due to the sheet with current function is the same as that due to a magnetic shell of strength over the surface at all points not within the substance of the shell .
8 .
Given any magnetic field external to a surface , , there exists a determinate system of magnetic shells over having at all points within the surface magnetic potential equal to that of the external 9 and 10 .
Therefore also a system of currents over the snrface having the corresponding property , called the magnetic screen .
Example of a sphere .
11 , 12 , and 1.3 .
If the function satisfy the conditions on within then , \amp ; c. , if be the components of vector potential dne to the external system and its anetic screen .
is called the companion function to , H. 14\mdash ; 17 , Solution of the problem of induction in the absence of resistance by Lagrange 's equations , where the external system varies continuously , in the form\mdash ; where where , and relate to the external system , and , and to the induced currents on S. 18 .
This gives at all points within , \amp ; c. , where is the companion function to , and to and 1888 .
] Electric Currents in Shells of small Thickn 19 .
If therefore - \amp ; c. , are to be regarded as components of an eIectromotive force , notwithstanding their derivation from a potential within , they will produce on a distribution of free electricity having potential , and forming a complete elecfric screen .
20 .
There is no energy of mutual action between the electrostatic system , if it exists , and the electric currents , because 21 and 22 .
The eflect of resistance generally .
23 .
Definition of self-inductive shells , , those for which values at any time , , of the component currents , , \amp ; c. , found from their values at a given epoch by multiply ing is constant . .
Investigation of the condition ) , the current function ' must satisfy in order that a currcnt shell may be capable of ' made belf-inductive .
25 .
If this condition be satisfied , the thickness of the shell which -es it self-inductive is , the material being snpposed uniform .
26 .
And varies versely as the thickness . .
General property of self-inductive shells in presence of a corresponding field whose potential is exprcssed by the equation\mdash ; at all points within the shell , or on the side of it to the , inducin .
system .
28 .
Example ( 1 ) , when constant .
29 .
Example ( 2 ) , when A and constant .
30 .
consequences deduced from the last example .
Examples of self-inductive shells , .
:\mdash ; 31 .
Spherical shell .
32 .
Solid of revolution about the axis of being a function of only . .
Any surface if be a function of only and a function of and only .
34 .
Example , an ellipsoidal shell .
35 .
Case of an infinite plane sheet as made self-inductive in certain cases .
36 .
Case of an infinite plane sheet when not self-inductive .
Arago 's disk .
3.7\mdash ; 40 .
Self-inductive shells bounded by a surface , , when is homogeneous function of , and 150 On the Diurnal Barometric Maxima .
[ May 3 , A solid formed of such shells and the action of outer shells upon inner ones , or vice versd .
40 .
Case of a solid ] of small finite thickness .
41 .
Of statical distribution of electricity on a conductor as proluced by variation of magnetic field .
42 .
Of non-self-inductive systems .
II .
" " On the Relations of the Diurnal Barometric Maxima to certain critical Conditions of Temperature , Cloud , and Rainfall By F. BLANFORD , F.RS .
Received , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The author refers to an observation of Lamont 's that the diurnal barometric variation appears to be compounded of two distinct elements , , a wave of diurnal period , which is very variable in different places , and which appears to depend on the horizontal and vertica ] movements of atmosphere and changes in the distribution of its mass , and a semi-diurnal element which is remarkably constant and seems to depend more immediateIy on the action of the sun. .
Then , referring to the theory of the semi-diurnal variation , or1ginally put forward by Espy , and subsequsntly by Davies and Kreil , the author out that the morning maximum of pressure approxlmately coincides with instant when the temperature is rlSlng most rapidly .
This is almost exactly true at Prague , Yarkand , in winter and summer , and in the winter months at Melbourne .
At the tropical stations , Bombay , Calcutta , and avia , and at Melbourne in the summer , the barometric maximum follows the instant of most rapid heating by a shorter or longer interval ; and the author remarks that this may probably be attributed to the action of convec .
, which must accelerate the time of most rapid heating near the ground surface ; while the barometric effect , if real , must be determined by the condition of the atmosphere up to a great height .
With reference to Lamont 's demonstration of the failure of Espy 's theory , a condition is pointed out which alters the of the problem , resistance that must be offered to the passage of the pressurewave hrough the extremely cold and highly attenuated atmospheric strata , whose existence is proved by the phenomena of ]uminous meteors .
With respect to the evening maximum of pressure , it is pointed out that vel.y generally , and especially in India , and also at Melbourne , there is a strongly-marked minimum in the diurnal variation of cloud between sunset and , which , on an average , as at Allahabad

