]\gt ; 40 Prof. O. Reynolds .
On the Dynamical [ May 24 .
also proposed .
This differs from Maxwell 's theory in that the latt er merely postulates changes of specific resistance and specific inductive capacity from point to point of the dielectric , while our theory is distinctly chemical .
We consider that our results on mixed films are best explained by the theory we propose , though the difficulty of disroving Maxwell 's theory is almost equal to the difficulty of establishlng it , and we do not wish to imply that some sort of explanation on this theory may not be constructed to fit in with our observations .
This is a point , however , on which we are still engaged .
The matter may .
perhaps , be best summed up in the statement that the evidence we have against Maxwell 's theory is nearly worthless ; but that we do not consider this theory necessary if our theory of conduction be accepted .
II .
" " On the Dynamical Theory of Incompressible Viscous Fluids and the Determination of the Criterion By OSBORNE REYNOLDS , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Apri125 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
The equations of motion of viscous fluid ( obtained by grafting on certain terms to the equations of the Eulerian form so as to adapt these equations to the case of fiuids subject to stresses dependin some hypothetical manner on the rates of distortion , which equations Navier*seems to have first introduced in 1822 , and which were much studied by Cauchy and Poisson ) were finally shown by St. VellantS and Sir Gabriel Stokes iu 1845 , to involve no othel .
assumption than that the stresses , other than that of pressure uniform in all directions , are linear functions of the of distortion with a -efficient depending on the physical state of the fluid .
By obtaining a singular solution of these eqnations as applied to the case of pendulums in steady periodic motion Sir G. Stokesl was able to compare the theoretical results with the numerous experiments thaG had been recorded , with the esult that the etical calcuIations agreed so closely with the experimental determinations as seemingly to pve the truth of the assumption involved .
This was also the result of comparing the flow of water rough uniform tubes with the fiow calculated from a singuIar solution of the equations so long as the tubes were ] and the velocities slow .
On the * ' Mem. de Acad , p. 389 .
'Mem .
des Savants Etrnngers , ' t. 1 , p. 40 .
' Mem. de , p. 345 .
S .
Report , ' 1846 .
mbridge Trans 1845 .
V ' Cambridge Trans vol. , 1857 .
1894 .
] Theory of Inco 77 pressibte iscous Fluids , .
41 hand , these resuIts , both and practical , were directly at variance with common experience as to the resistance encountered by bodies moving with higher velocities through water , or by moving with greater velocities through larger tubes .
This discrepancy Sir G. Stokes considered as probably resulting from eddies which endered the actual motion other than that to which the ular solution referred and not as disproving the assumption .
In 1850 , after Joule 's of the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat , Stokes , by transforming the equations of with arbitrary stresses\mdash ; so as to obtain the equation of Vis-vlva ellergy , that this equation a definite function , which repre- sented the difference between the work done on fluid by the stresses and the rate of increase of the energy per unit of volume , which function , he concluded , must , according to Joule , represent the Vis-viva converted into heat .
This conclusion was obtained from the equations irrespective of any particnlar relation between the stresses and the rates of diStortion .
Sir G. Stokes , howevel\ldquo ; translated the function into an expresslon in of the rates of distortion , which expression has since been named by Lord Rayleigh the Function .
Tn 1883 the author succeeded proving , by means of experiments with colour bands\mdash ; the results of which communicated to the Society*\mdash ; that when water is caused by pressure to flow through a uniform smooth pipe , the motion of the water is direct , i.e. , to the sides of the pipe , or , i.c. , crossing and recrossing the pipc , according as , the mean velocity of the water , as measured by dividing , the dischal.ge by , the area of the section of the pipe , is below or above a certain value iven by , where is the diameter of the pipe , the density of the water , and a numerical constant , the value of which accol.ding to the author 's experiments and , as he was able to sho to all the experiments by Poiseuille and Darc , , is for pipes of circular section betweem 1,900 and 2,000 , , in ords , steady direct motion in round tubes is stable or unstable according as the number being thus a Cl.itel'ion of the possible maintenance of sinuous or eddying motion .
The experiments also was equally a criterion of the law of the resistance to be overc.ome\mdash ; which changes from ' .
Trans 1883 , Part III , p. 42 Prof. O. Reynolds .
On the amical [ May resistance proportional to the velocity and in exact accordance the theoretical 1esuIts obtained from the singular solution of the , when direct molion changes to sinuous , i.e. , when In the same paper it its pointed out that the existence of this .
sudden change in the law of motion of fluids between solid surfaces .
when proved the dependence of the manner omotion of the fluid on a relation between the product of he dimensions of the pipe muItipliect by the velocity of the fluid and the produc , of the molecular dimensions multiplied by the molecular velocities which determine the value of for the fluid , also that the equations of motion for viscous fluid contained evidence of this relation .
These experimental results completely removed the discrepancy previotlsly notiried , showing that , whatever may be the cause , in those cases in which the imental resuIts do not accord with thosc obtained by the singular soIution of the equations , the actual motions of the tvater are diiferent .
But in this there is a partial explanation , for there remains the mechanical or significanca of the existence of the iterion to be explained .
In the present paper the aubhor applies the dynamical theory to the motion of incompressible viscous fluids to show\mdash ; That the adoption of the conclusion ived at by .
Gabriel Stokes , that the dissipation function repl.esents the rate at which heat is produced , adds a definition to the meaning of components of mean or fluid was previously wanting ; That as the result of this definition the equations are true , and are only , as applied to fluid in which the mean-motions of the matter , bhe heat motions , are stead ) .
; That the evidcnce of the possible existence of such steady mean-motions , while at the same time conversion of the of these -motions into heat is going on , proves the existence of some cause by which the periods in space and time of the mean-motion prevented from approximating in nitude to the periods of the motions ; and also existence of some eneral action by which the of mean-motion rarlsfo ) energy of heat-motion vithoub passing through any intermediate stage ; That as applied to fluid in unsteady mean-motion ( .
1894 .
] of pressible .
4$ the -motions ) , howevel .
steady the mean integral flow may be , .
the equations al.e approximately true a which the ratios of the ma.gnitudes of the periods , in time and space , of the mean-motion to the mnitude of the esponding periods of the heat-motions ; That if the discriminative and the oecfion of the esult of general properties of matter , and not of properties which affect only the ultimate motions , there must exist evidence of similar actions as between mean-mean-motion , in directions of mean flow , and periodic mean-motions takell relative to the mean-mean- motion but excluding heat-motions .
And that such evidence must be of a g.eneral and important kind , such as the laws of the resistance of fluid motions , the law of the universal dissipation of energ7 the second law of thermodynamics ; That the of the effects of the properties on which the actio of depends is proved by the evidence that resistance , othcl than proportional to the velocity , is caused by the relative mean-motion .
the existence of the discriminafive is ectly proved by the existcuce of the iterion , the dependence of which on circumwhich limit the of the periods of -meallmotior ] , as compared with the motion , proves the of the effects of the propel.ties on which ib depends .
TlIat the proof of the eraliby of the effects of the properties on which the discriminative cause and the action of transformation depend , shows that\mdash ; if in the equations of motion the mean-meanmotion is distinguished from relative-mean-motion in the ay as the mean-motion is from the heat-motions\mdash ; ( 1 ) the eqURtiollS must contain expressions the sformation of the energy of mean-mean-motion to energy of relative-mean-motion ; and ( 2 ) the equation , when integrated a complete systcm , .
must that the possibility of -mean-motion ) ellcls on the ratio of the possible nitudes of the peri of -mean- motio1l , as compared with the nitude of the pel'iods the heat-motions .
the equations are trnnsformed so as veen the mean-mean-motions of intiuitc periods and the of finite pel.iods , thel.e result systems of tions , one system for mean-mean-motion , as nffected by -motions and heat-motion , the other system motion ffec ed by attd heat-motions .
equation of of -moan-motion , ) the system , the rate of is by sion i eat , matiou of onel.gy of mcan-mean-motion in of 44 rfheory of ompressible VFluids , .
[ May 24 , motion , which transformation is expressed by a function identical in with that which expresses the convcrsion into heat ; and that the equation of energy of relative-mean-motion , obtained trom the second system , shows that this energy is increased only by transform- ation of enel.gyfi.om mean-mean-motion expressed by the same function , and diminished only by the conversion of energy of relative- mean-motion into heat .
That the difference of the two rates ( 1 ) transformation of energy of mean-mean-motion into srgy of relative-mean-motion as essed by the transformation function , ( 2 ) the conversion of energy of -mean-motion into heat , as expressed by the tion expressing dissipation of the energy of relative-mean-motion , aifords a discriminating equation as to the conditions under which -mean-motion can be That this discriminating equation ndependent of the of relative-mean-motion , and esses a relation between variations of mean-mean-motion of the first order , the space periods of relative- mean-motion and such that any circumstances which determine maximum periods of the relative-mean-motion determine the conditions of mean-mean-motion under which relative mean-motion will be detel.mine the criterion : That as appIied to water in steady mean flow between parallel plane sul.faces , the boundary conditions and the equation of coll tinnity impose limits to the maximum space periods of reIativemean-motion such that the discriminating equation definite proof that when an indefinitely small sinuous or relative disturbance exists it must fade away if is less than a number , which depends on the shape of tho section of the boundaries and is constant as long as there is geometrical similarity .
While for greater values of this function , in so far as the discriminating equation shows , the of sinuous motion may increase until it reaches to a definite limit , and rules resistance .
That besides thus a mechanical explanation of existence of the iterion K , the discriminating equation shows the purely geometrical circumstances on which ) of depends , and although these circumstances satisfy geometrical collditions required for steady mean-motion other than those imposed by the conservations of mean energy and momentum , the theol.y admits of the determination of an limit to the value of under an definite boundary conditions , ich , as mined for the ) articuIal .
case , is 517 .
1894 .
] On Functions connected Harmonics .
45 This is below the value for round pipes , and is about half what might be expected to be the vain for a flat pipe , which leaves a margin to meet the other kinematical conditions for steady That the discriminatiug equation also affords a definite expression for the resistance , which proves thnt , with smooth fixed bouudaries , the conditions of dynamical similarity under any geometrical similar circumstances depend onIy on the value of dp- ' where is one of the lateral dimensions of the pipe ; and expl.ession for this resistance is complex , but shows that above the critical velocity the relative-mean-motion is limited , and that resistances increase as a power of the velocity hig.her than the first .
1II .
On Functions connected Tesserftl monics , \ldquo ; By A. H. LEAHY , , late Fellow of brokc Collcge , Cambridge , Professor of Mathematics at Firth College , Sheffield .
Professor HlCKS , F.B.S. Reccived March 24 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The transformation of a zonal harmonic to a pole on a sphere to another pole on the same sphere , expression in a sel.ies containing the 2 harmonics of same order to this new pole , is an operation -requently employed in physlctl esearch .
purpose of this papel is the investigation of certain functions of the angular distance between the.poles lvhich occur general tesseral harmonic is from one pole and to another pole and another plane of reference .
If the tesl of any point on the sphere when referl.ed to the first pole are and ; denoting the colatitudo , and the tnde ; and if the coordinates of same point when to the second pole are and '/ ; dell oling the colatitude and the : longitude refel.red to a ) ) the two poles , it is that . .
\ldquo ;

