X. " Notes on Variations in the origin of the Long Buccal Branch of the Fifth Cranial Nerve .
" By WM .
TURNER , M.B. ( Lond. ) , Professor of Anatomy , University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY .
Received June 9 , 1868 .
In the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology , November 1866 , I gave a description of a specimen from the dissecting-room in which the long buccal nerve , instead of proceeding from the third division of the fifth nerve , arose from the superior maxillary trunk in the spheno-maxillary fossa .
This transposition of the origin of the nerve from its proper trunk to one which is sensory in function , seemed to me to be a strong additional argument , and from a new point of view , to those which had previously been urged by various writers on physiological and pathological grounds , in favour of the purely sensory nature of this nerve .
In a subject dissected during the month of March of the present year , variations of an interesting kind in connexion with this nerve were observed , which afford additional proof of its sensory nature .
The occurrence within so short a period of two subjects presenting variations of so important a nature in their bearings on the much disputed question of the physiology of this nerve , leads me to offer these notes to the Royal Society , in the hope that , if inserted in its Proceedings , the attention of anatomists may be more generally directed to the matter , and lead perhaps to further observations of a similar nature .
When the superior maxillary trunk was exposed on the left side of the head in the spheno-maxillary fossa , in addition to the orbital and palatine nerves usually arising from it in this locality , a branch of some size arose , which descended behind the posterior surface of the superior maxilla .
In its course it gave origin to two distinct superior dental nerves , which entered foramina in the bone for the supply of the upper teeth .
The upper of these dental nerves was joined immediately before entering its foramen by another superior dental branch , arising independently from the superior maxillary trunk .
After giving origin to these superior dental nerves , the branch , now considerably diminished in size , passed downwards to the cheek , where sbme of its fibres pierced the substance of the buccinator muscle at the spot where it is usual for the long buccal nerve to enter it , whilst others formed a distinct anastomosis with branches of the portio dura in the fat over the surface of [ that muscle .
No buccal nerve from the inferior maxillary was observed on this side .
This arrangement corresponds almost exactly to the specimen above referred to , as described in the Journal of Anatomy and Physiology , and the two are , I believe , the only examples of the kind up to this time recorded .
On the right side of the same subject a different arrangement was observed .
From the superior maxillary trunk in the spheno-maxillary fossa , in addition to its proper branches , two slender nerves arose , which passed obliquely downwards and forwards through the mass of fat beneath the ramus of the jaw and the anterior border of the masseter to the fat of the cheek , where they anastomosed with branches of the portio dura , and doubtless ended in the integument .
These nerves represented , I believe , the branches which the long buccal nerve usually gives off before it enters the buccinator muscle , and were the only parts of that nerve which arose on this side of the head from the second division of the fifth .
The remaining part of the long buccal nerve arose from the inferior maxillary trunk and entered the buccinator in the usual locality .
When followed into the substance of the muscle , it passed obliquely and gave off branches of great delicacy , many of which were traced into the mucous membrane of the cheek .
Followed upwards to its origin , the long buccal nerve was seen to divide at the foramen ovale into two parts , of which one was traced without difficulty directly into the Gasserian ganglion , and must therefore be re .
garded as sensory ; the other , connected with the fasciculus , from which the temporal and masseteric nerves arose , was followed upwards to the motor root of the fifth .
Almost immediately after receiving this offshoot from the motor root , the buccal nerve gave origin to the nerve of supply for the external pterygoid muscle , and the fibres of the motor root were to all appearance prolonged directly into this pterygoid branch , whilst the fibres from the sensory ganglion could be distinctly traced into the proper buccal part of the nerve .
There can be no doubt that in this case the entire buccal nerve on the left side was purely sensory .
There can also be no doubt that those branches arising from the superior maxillary trunk on the right side , which passed to the surface over the buccinator , were purely sensory .
The remaiining part of the right nerve also , though connected with the motor root of the fifth , yet parted to all appearance with its motor fibres before it proceeded to its destination .
I may take this opportunity of referring to a case of variation in the origin of the buccal nerve , which , so far as I know , has not yet been referred to by British anatomists , and which gives additional evidence of the sensory nature of the nerve .
In the Bulletins de la Soc. Anat .
de Paris , 1853 , S. 109 ( quoted in Krause und Telgmann ' Die Nerven-Varietaten , ' Leipzig , 1868 ) , M. Gaillet describes the nerve as arising directly from the Gasserian ganglion , without having any connexion with the motor root , then passing out of the cranium through a special foramen midway between the F. rotundum and F. ovale , and lying between the great wing of the sphenoid and external pterygoid muscle on its course to its distribution .
Variations in the usually described arrangements of the structures in the human body have , as a rule , been studied either from their bearings on questions connected with practical medicine and surgery , or from the light which they throw on the development and morphology of parts and organs , out , as these cases prove , their study is not without interest from the teleological point of view .

