I. Part of two Letters from Dr James Brewer to Dr Sloane , concerning Beds of Oyster-shells found near Reading in Barkshire .
Jan. 13 .
1699 .
I Ask your pardon that I am so late in performing my promise in sending you the Oyster-shells .
As to the original of them , it is a province too nice and difficult for me to solve .
You see they have the entire figure , form , and matter of Oyster-shells , and , no doubt , they are such .
But how they should come to the place where I dug for them , and where for so many succeeding Generations they have been found , I leave you and other Philosophers to determine : They do encompass nigh 6 Acres of ground : Just above the Layre of these Oysters there is a greenish Earth , or rather Sand , and under them there is Chalk .
Sir , I have often seen in several Chalk-pits a few scattered Oyster-shells .
But in this place they are as it were one continued Body , and in an even line .
Through the whole circumference between 5 and 6 Acres of ground .
I wish at your leisure hours , that you would be so kind to afford me a line or two of your thoughts as to these Shells , and of the use you likewise promised to acquaint me , that they might be in practice more than common Alkali 's .
You know we have no Sea near us , and therefore it seems the more strange , how these Shells should be placed in such a compass of Ground Reading , Jan. 25 , 1699 .
SIR , IN Answer to your last , be pleased to take the following account , the observations which I personally made , were with all the exactness as the subject and place would admit .
The circumference then , where these Oyster-shells have been dug up , and found , contains ( as I before hinted to you ) as is judged , between 5 and 6 Acres of Land .
The foundation of these Shells is a hardRockyChalk , and above thisChalk theOyster-shells lye in a bed of green Sand , upon a level , through the whole circumference , as nigh as can possibly be judged ; this Stratum of green Sand andOyster-shells is ( as I measured ) nigh 2 foot deep .
Now immediately above this Layre , or Stratum of green Sand and Shells , is a bed of a bluish sort of Clay .
very hard , brittle , and rugged , they call it a pinny Clay , and is of no use .
This Bed , or Layre of Clay , I found to be nigh a yard deep ; and immediately above it , is a Stratum of Fullers-earth , which is nigh two foot and a half deep ; this Earth is often made use of by our Cloathiers : and above this Earth is a Bed , or Layre , of a clear fine white Sand , without the least mixture of any Earth , Clay , &amp;c. which is nigh seven foot deep : then immediately above this is a stiff red Clay , ( which is the uppermost Stratum ) of which we make our Tiles .
The depth of this ca n't be conveniently taken , it being so high a Hill , on the top of which hath been , and is dug a little common Earth about two foot deep , and immediately under appears this red Clay that they make Tiles withal .
; al ; as the Gentleman that lives on the spot tells me : I should also have acquainted you that this very day with a Mattock I dug out several whole Oysters with both their Valves , or Shells lying together , as Oysters before opened , in their Cavity there is got in some of the prementioned green Sand .
These Shells are so very brittle , that in digging for them , one of the Valves will frequently drop from its fellow , but it is plainly to be seen that they were united together , by placing the Shell that drops off to its fellow Valve , which exactly corresponds ; but I dug out several that were entire ; nay , some double Oysters with all their Valves united .
Sir , thus I have endeavoured to answer your Queries , and I hope you 'll excuse all defects and errors .
But if in this information there may be any thing of use , or satisfaction to you , &amp;c. I have my desired end : The Account that I have here given you of these Shells , and Strata 's of Sand , Clay , &amp;c. is what I yesterday and this day observed , and tried on the spot , therefore you may depend on the faithfulness of it .

