165 On the Distribution of Chlorides Nerve Cells and Fibres .
By A. B. Macallum , M.A. , M.B. , Ph. D. , Professor of Physiology , and Miss M. L. Menten , B.A. , Assistant-Demonstrator of Physiology , in the University of Toronto . .
( Communicated by Professor W. D. Halliburton , F.R.S. Received July 24 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1905 .
) [ Plates 2\#151 ; 4 .
] CONTENTS .
PAGE I.\#151 ; Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
165 II.\#151 ; Historical Account of the Literature of the Subject .
167 III.\#151 ; Methods of Investigation ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
172 IY.\#151 ; Results ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
175 A. In Nerve Fibres ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
175 B. In Nerve Cells ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
186 Y.\#151 ; General Remarks ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
188 I.\#151 ; Introduction .
The question of the composition of nerve fibres , and especially of the axon itself , is one which must be solved before a rational explanation of the properties of nerve tissue can be given .
The solution of the problem in its ultimate details is possible only when we have at our command reagents and methods which will greatly exceed in sensitiveness those which are accessible to us at present , for such as have been used hitherto comprehend only those of ordinary chemical analysis , and they have not thrown any light on the subject , while those of micro-chemistry , which have been employed up to the present , involve staining with dyes such as one employs in histological technique and treatment with nitrate of silver and osmic acid .
The last-named reagent is of service in demonstrating the fat of the medullary sheath , and the nitrate of silver has been employed to show the nodes of Ranvier and the striation known as Erommann 's lines , a result which , as will be shown , depends on a micro-chemical reaction , but the dyes hitherto used have revealed little except structure .
There are , indeed , the Weigert hematoxylin and the Golgi reactions , but the constituents of the sheath and axon responsible for both are unknown .
Through these and other histological methods much has been ascertained regarding the structure of nerve fibres and cells , but so far little has been determined which will serve to explain such properties as irritability and conductivity and the nature of the nerve impulse itself .
vol. lxxvii.\#151 ; b. N 166 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , The results of investigations on the electrical properties of nerve fibres , however , show that the relationship between the electrolytic action of a current on the nerve and its exciting efficiency is a very intimate , practically an indissoluble , one , and in view of this one asks on what constituent the electrolytic effect is exerted.* The observations of one of us show that in the axons of the normal nerve fibre potassiumf in any of its combinations is wholly wanting , and , therefore , the electrolytes present must be those of sodium , calcium , and magnesium compounds , but as the two latter elements are present only in very minute quantities each as compared with sodium in nerve tissue , and as , further , the inorganic phosphates are not found when sought for micro-chemically in the axon , the indications point very distinctly to the occurrence there of chloride of sodium .
The difficulty in demonstrating the occurrence of chlorides in tissues hitherto has been that the one sensitive reaction for chlorides , the formation of argentic chloride and the reduction of this to subchloride under the action of sunlight , was not distinguishable from that involving compounds of silver formed with proteids and organic compounds generally , which also were supposed to reduce under the action of sunlight .
When , therefore , a solution of a silver salt gave a coloured reduction compound on its application to a tissue in sunlight , it was held not to be determinable what was due to chlorides and what to organic compounds .
This difficulty , the senior author has shown , } can be overcome if in the reagent itself there is present a quantity of free nitric acid which prevents the formation from phosphates , sulphates , and carbonates , and from all organic compounds of tissues , except creatin and taurin , of coloured reduction combinations of silver , and he found , further , that when albumins , globulins , and gelatins are freed from all traces of chlorides , they do not manifest the slightest capacity to form withx silver salts compounds which " reduce " under the action of light .
It became evident , therefore , that a solution of nitrate of silver , containing a quantity of free nitric acid , could be used to determine the occurrence and distribution of chlorides in nerve fibres , and , in consequence , the authors began the observations of which this paper is the outcome .
* A very interesting discussion of this subject is given in J. S. Macdonald 's paper on " The Injury Current of Nerve : The Key to its Physical Structure , " 'The Thompson Yates Laboratories Report , ' vol. 4 , 1902 , p. 213 .
t Macallum , " On the Distribution of Potassium in Animal and Vegetable Cells , ' ' Journal of Physiol. , ' vol. 32 , p. 95 , 1905 .
+ Macallum , " On the Nature of the Silver Reaction in Animal and Vegetable Tissues , ' 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. B 76 , p. 276 , 1905 .
1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides Nerve Cells and Fibres .
167 II.\#151 ; Historical Account of the Literature of the Subject .
There are no observations , in the literature dealing with nerve fibres , which bear directly on the occurrence of chlorides in these structures .
There are incidental , and often indefinite statements , referring to the formation of chloride of silver in the axons of nerves , as , for instance , that of Boveri* when explaining the production of Frommann 's lines , but elsewhere in the same work he attributes the silver reaction of nerves not to the presence of any specific substance or compound , but to a precipitate brought about by and in the contact surfaces of tissue elements .
Nitrate of silver has , however , been employed in the study of nerve fibres since 1864 , the year in which Frommann made his observationsf with that reagent on nerve cells and fibres , and to the results of its use we owe a clearer understanding of the structure of the nerve fibre than we would have without its service .
These results were attributed either to physical factors operating on the silver salt and producing a new compound of it which reduced in light , or to an organic compound uniting with the silver to form a combination also affected similarly by light .
Ranvier , who made a very extensive use of the reagent , curiously refrains from expressing any view as to the mode of action of the salt , or even as to the possibility of an explanation of its action .
Though the action of the silver nitrate on nerve fibres was unexplained and unknown , yet its use brought out results of importance which , in the light of what we now know , are to be understood as due to the presence of chlorides in the parts affected .
Of course the indications which they give of the distribution of the chlorides are very inadequate and very often faulty , but they have furnished some conceptions of the structure of the fibres , and on this account a summary of some of them comes in properly here .
Frommann , on using a solution containing from to 1 grain of silver nitrate to the ounce on nerve fibres of the spinal cord , found on exposure to light a yellow or brown coloration of the axis cylinders .
Some had a homogeneous or very finely granular appearance , others appeared distinctly striated transversely , the strife being placed close to one another .
These strife sometimes obtained throughout the whole visible portion of the fibre , sometimes again only in a portion of the same , the strife at the terminal * " Beitrage sir Kenntnis der Nervenfasern , " 'Abhandl .
d. k. Bayer .
Akad .
, Math.-Phys .
Cl. , ' vol. 15 , 1886 , p. 423 .
t " Sir Silberfarbung der Axencylinder , " ' Virchow 's Arch. , ' vol. 31 , 1864 , p. 151 ; also " Uber die Farbung der Bind und Nervensubstanz des Ruckenmarkes durch Argentum nitricum und liber die Struktur der Nervenzellen , " same volume , p. 129 .
N 2 168 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , parts of the affected extent gradually becoming less distinct .
Frequently also axis cylinders were found wholly unaffected , and these would alternate with deeply striated fibres .
When the coloration became marked the striation was indistinct .
The minutest as well as the broadest fibres exhibited the striae .
The material constituting the matrix of each stria did not appear to be different from that between the coloured bands , and both series varied in breadth even in the same fibre .
In parts of certain axis \#166 ; cylinders the striae were constituted of granules and where striae were not present the granules were sometimes regularly , sometimes irregularly , arranged with , amongst them , longitudinal fibrillae .
Frommann found also that the nerve cells of the spinal cord , on treatment with nitrate of silver , took a light or deep brown , sometimes a grey-blue colour which increased with time .
The nucleus in such preparations was as \#166 ; dark as , or lighter than , the cytoplasm , while the nucleolus was as dark as , or darker than , the cell .
The next observer , Grandry , * who studied the action of nitrate of silver on nerve elements , corroborated Frommann in many of the above-mentioned .details , and dealt specially with the striae which are now henceforth known as Frommann 's lines .
The position of these could be altered by pressure but they could not be destroyed by such means .
He claimed that by keeping the preparations for a long time in glycerine the striae could on compression be completely isolated .
There were , in his opinion , two substances in the axis cylinders not mixed or diffused in each other , but wholly distinct , and he compared the structure they present to that found in striated muscle fibre .
Grandry found a very marked striation in the cell body and polar processes of nerve cells of the spinal cord .
These striae varied in diameter .even in the same cell , and there was a variation also in their quality , some , the finest , being completely homogeneous , while others were of granular composition .
Grandry found at times , as Frommann did , the body of the cell to colour uniformly brown , but the nucleus was unstained .
In other cases a portion of the cell body exhibited the striae while the remainder was uniformly coloured .
This work of Grandry was done in Schwann'sf laboratory , and that observer , in discussing Grandry 's results , remarked that " it seemed difficult to admit that formations so regular , like the striae in question , could be * " Recherches sur la Structure du Cylindre de 1'Axe et des Cellules Nerveuses , " * Bulletins de l'Academie de Bruxelles , " 2nd Series , vol. 25 , 1868 , p. 304 ; also " De la Structure intime du Cylindre de l'Axe et des Cellules Nerveuses , " ' Journ. de lAnat .
et de la Physiol. , ' vol. 6 , 1869 , p. 289 .
+ ' Bulletin de l'Acad .
de Bruxelles , ' 2nd Series , vol. 25 , 1868 , p. 287 .
1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides in Nerve Cells and Fibres .
169 artificially produced , if in the living organ there were not a corresponding disposition .
" Ranvier* found that in addition to revealing the annular bands of the iiitersegmental nodes and the portions of the axon in their immediate neighbourhood , the use of the reagent demonstrated the lines of Frommann at the nodes and in their vicinity , the distinctness of the striation gradually lessening with the distance from the nodes .
He found also that the axis cylinder at the node exhibited a biconical swelling ( renflement biconique ) the substance of which blackened with the reagent .
The silver reaction at the nodes is , according to Boveri , f between the two contact surfaces of the cells constituting the neurilemma which meet at that point .
Further , a similar reaction obtains in the immediate vicinity of the nodes under the medullary sheath .
The silver precipitate , owing to the form of the periaxial space at this point which it occupies , gives the figure called by Ranvier the biconical thickening , and regarded by him as a normal integral portion of the fibre .
In Boveri 's view the enlargement is a deposit on , not in , the fibre .
A third precipitate which Boveri found obtained wherever the reagent by its action brought the fibrillse of the axon into contact .
This does not occur at definite points , but it is , as a rule , found at the nodes .
This precipitate allows the fibrillse to be recognized except where the periaxial precipitate with which it is in contact is so marked as to obscure them .
Regarding the lines of Frommann , Boveri holds that they are rings about the axon , not in the same , but if the fibrillar structure obtains immediately beneath each , then the precipitate penetrates the fibre and is deposited between the fibrillse .
He rejects the view that the lines are due to a preformed or pre-existing transverse lamination of the axon , because the layers of the silver precipitate decrease in intensity with the distance from the node and at the same time become separated by greater intervals from each other .
The most important fact which he found to tell against the view is that discovered by A. Boehm , then an assistant in the histological laboratory at Munich , who placed fine capillary glass tubes , filled with filtered egg albumen , in a 0*5 per cent , solution of nitrate of silver .
This diffused into the tube and caused a white precipitate which consisted , in great part , of chloride of silver , disposed not uniformly through the lumen , but in layers , like the lines of Frommann , separated by zones free from precipitate .
* ' Traite Technique d'Histologie , ' Paris , 1875 , p. 725 ; also ' LeSons sir l'Histologie du Systeme Nerveux , ' Paris , 1878 , p. 45 .
+ Loc .
cit. 170 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , As obviously there could not have been any transversely disposed lamination of the albumen in the capillary tube , the result found by Boehm could only be due to physico-chemical causes , and Boveri employs it to explain the production of Frommann 's lines .
In the lymphatic fluid surrounding the nerve fibrillae sodium chloride is dissolved , and this gives with the silver solution a precipitate of silver chloride , which in light is reduced and appears as black granules .
The medullary sheath acts the part of the wall of the glass capillary tube and prevents the entrance of the reagent except at the nodes or at the torn ends of the fibre , but at these points it slowly diffuses into the axial space .
Boveri is inclined to explain the result as due to the penetrating solution losing , through the formation of the precipitate , its silver salt , so that for a time pure water only continues to penetrate until the loss is replaced by silver nitrate diffusing forward , whereupon a new precipitate occurs , but at an advanced point , and water alone again continues to diffuse with the same repetition of result .
In this also Boveri finds an explanation for the greater distance separating the lines the more remote they are from the point of entrance , as with the distance from that point a greater interval of the capillary tubule must be traversed before the silver salt can be replaced .
Boveri found further , in small fibres of the sympathetic , a silver precipitate arranged as two parallel bands in the medulla , one on each side of and immediately adjacent to the node of Banvier .
Another precipitate he observed not infrequently in the segments or imbrications of Lanterman .
Joseph , * by treating fresh nerve fibres with a 0'5 per cent , solution of nitrate of silver containing also 5 per cent , free nitric acid , for several hours , and then with solutions of potassium bichromate , found Frommann 's lines equally well marked far from the nodes of Banvier , as at the latter points and over long extents of the fibres .
The striae were formed of granules .
According to Jakimovitch , j* who used special methods of applying the nitrate of silver , the striation of the axon is of three kinds , the difference depending on the breadth of the striae , on the distance between the neighbouring bands , and on the character of the granules composing the striae .
The lines were present in the fibres of a puppy two days old but not in its optic or abductor nerves , though they were found in such in older puppies with the eyes opened .
In winter frogs kept in the laboratory the axons were nearly always diffusely granular , not striated , or if striation obtained it was of a feebly * " Uber einige Bestandtheile der peripheren markhaltigen Nervenfaser , " 'Sitzungs-ber .
k. Preuss .
Akad .
zu Berlin , ' 1888 , p. 1321 .
+ " Sur la Structure du Cylind re-axe et des Cellules Nerveuses , " ' Journ. de l'Anat .
et de la Physiol. , ' 1888 , p. 142 .
1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides in Nerve Cells and Fibres .
171 marked kind .
In such animals , however , after the nerves were cut and then stimulated with induction currents for some minutes , striation was found in a great number of axons .
To show the striation the preparations must be perfectly fresh , as those made some time after death reveal few striated fibres , although Jakimovitch found them 24 hours after death in the spinal cord of man and of fishes , but in this case striation was feebly pronounced , while they were absent in an animal dead for six hours , in mice dead from inanition , in frogs slowly poisoned with curare , and in the optic nerves of frogs kept functionally inactive for 8 to 10 days by suturing the eyelids and covering them with a layer of copal varnish .
In prolonged chloroform anaesthesia the number of fibres striated were few , as was the case with rabbit dead from paralytic hydrophobia and in birds dead from intoxication .
The striation , Jakimovitch therefore holds , is dependent on functional condition .
The striae are due to the fibrillae containing , in series , particles which give the silver reaction alternating with others which do not .
He found the striae also in nerve cells but not in non-medullated fibres such as those of the olfactory nerve , the sympathetic and the nerve fibres of insects and molluscs , which appeared finely granular after the action of the reagent .
That there are , besides nerve cells and fibres , other tissue structures which exhibit , like them , a striation after treatment with silver nitrate , has been shown by Thin , * Eeevesf and Fleschj in cartilage , and by EablS in the adventitia of blood-vessels , in the connective tissue of the gastric submucosa , in the intercellular material ( fluid ?
) lying between fat-holding cells , in the hepatic cylinders of the lobules of the human liver , as well as in articular cartilage .
The last-named observer obtained these results by treatment of the tissues in question , first with a 1-per-cent , solution of silver nitrate containing also 10 per cent , of free nitric acid , subsequently with a 2- to 5-per-cent , solution of potassium bichromate and followed by exposure to sunlight .
As to the mode of production of these striations Eabl adopts and expands Boveri 's explanation .
It may finally be mentioned that some observers have held that the stria ; * " On the Structure of Hyaline Cartilage , " 'Quart .
Journ. of Micro .
Sci. , ' vol. 16 , 1875 , p. 1 .
t " The Matrix of Articular Cartilage , " 'British Medical Journal , ' 1876 , vol. 2 , p. 616 .
X " Bemerkungen sir Kritik der Tinctions-Praparate , " 'Zeit .
fur wiss .
Mikr .
, 'vol .
2 , 1885 , p. 464 .
S " Sir geschiclitete ISJiederschlage bei Behandlung der Gewebe mit Argentum nitricum , " 'Sitzungsb .
der Wiener Akad .
, Math-naturw .
Cl.,1 vol. 102 , Abth .
3 , 1893 , p. 342 .
172 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , are the expression of periaxial , not intraaxial , structures , and amongst these may be mentioned Eumpf , * Morochowetz , f Obersteimer , t LavdowskyS and SchiefferdeckerJI but the deposit which gives the appearance of the striation is , according to Jakimovitchf and Eabl , ** distributed uniformly throughout the whole transectional area of the axon .
III.\#151 ; Methods of Investigation .
As already pointed out , it has been shown by one of us that nitrate of silver in the presence of free nitric acid constitutes , in the absence of creatin and taurin , a very sensitive reagent for chlorides , if the preparations are subsequently exposed to light , and that proteids and albuminoids free from chlorides do not give any compound with a silver salt which can be " reduced " in the sunlight .
As a consequence of this discovery the reagent has been used very extensively by us to determine the distribution of the chlorides in the axon .
The solution used was a decinormal one of the nitrate , to which 25 c.c. of nitric acid of 1/ 4 specific gravity ( i.e. , 60 per cent , strength ) were added for every 1000 c.c. of the solution .
The reagent , therefore , contained 17 per cent , of silver nitrate with 1/ 5 per cent , of free nitric acid .
The distilled water used in making the solution was free from chlorides to the extent that the reagent , when kept in the sunlight for months , did not give the slightest indication of an opalescence , discoloration , precipitate or deposit .
This is a point of importance , for the reagent will reveal the presence of chlorine as chlorides when the chlorine is as dilute as 1 in l,600,000.tf The tissues treated were in every case perfectly fresh and , in order that the penetration should be quickly obtained , the parts were carefully and finely teased out on the slide or in the dish before the reagent was added .
The latter was allowed to act for a time which in individual cases varied from 1 to 48 hours , and while in the bath of the reagent the preparation was protected from the light .
Then it was , when necessary , still further teased out , either quill or glass points being used for this purpose , finally mounted in * * Untersuchungen aus dem Physiol. Inst , zu Heidelberg , ' vol. 11 , 1882 .
The reference is given by Rabl .
t Rabl , loc. cit. J ' Anleitung beim Studium des Baues der nervoseu Centralorgane , ' Leipzig und Wien* 1888 .
S ' Journ. de Medecine Militaire , ' 1884-5 .
The reference is given by Rabl .
|j " Beitriige zur Kenntniss des Baues der Nervenfasern , " 'Arch , fur Mikr .
Anat .
vol. 30 , p. 435 .
H Loc .
cit. ** Loc .
cit. +t Macallum , loc. cit 1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides in Nerve Cells and Fibres .
173 glycerine of 50 per cent , strength and exposed to the action of bright sunlight till the maximum effect was obtained .
In making preparations of the spinal cord a portion of the latter was pressed out between two glass slides to a very thin layer and this , attached to one of the slides , was placed in the reagent for 24 hours , after which it was exposed to light , mounted in glycerine and covered .
This was found to be the best way of preparing , with the silver reagent , nerve fibres unprovided with a neurilemma , and it gave some very good preparations of nerve cells showing the distribution of chlorides in them .
Nitrate of silver , when alone in solution , does not penetrate very well , and thus , in the remote parts of even a minutely teased-out preparation , there may be a redistribution of the chlorides before the reagent has reached them by diffusion .
When free nitric acid is present , it promotes considerably the diffusion of the nitrate , but , unfortunately , the acid diffuses more readily than the salt , and , in consequence , if the preparations are not carefully teased out , the result may be the same as when the reagent is neutral .
We have used solutions of the reagent containing less than 1 per cent , of the salt with as much as 10 per cent , of the acid .
It was found that such a solution gave , in the majority of instances , the most marked preparations of the axons with Frommann 's lines , the latter often extending over the axon for the whole , or nearly the whole , extent of the internodal segments of the fibre .
This solution , however , has the disadvantage of redistributing chlorides before the silver nitrate reaches them .
Instances of this were found in nerve fibres of the sciatic of the frog and rat in which a portion of the chlorides diffused , in the parts remote from the nodes , from the axon into the medullary sheath , and were then precipitated by the reagent .
It was observed also that the reagent of this composition gave very often in ordinary connective tissues , as , for instance , in those of the pancreas of the guinea-pig , in the adventitia of arterioles , and in the gastric mucosa of the frog , a striation in every respect like that found in the axons , and exactly similar to that described by Eabl in such structures .
Such striations are artefacts , and , therefore , a high degree of concentration of acid in the reagent tends to show a distribution of the chlorides that does not obtain in the living fresh structures .
The best results are so obtained , as our experience shows , with a deci-normal solution of jthe salt containing 1*5 per cent , nitric acid .
When the preparations had been acted on by it for the required time , they were mounted , without removing the excess of the reagent , in 50 per cent , glycerine .
The advantage in this is that , as in the photographic plate , an excess of nitrate of silver acts as a " sensitizer , " that is , it combines with 174 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , the chlorine liberated by the reducing action of the sunlight from the already formed chloride of silver , and this addition to the precipitate , under the influence of the light , itself is reduced , thus rendering more pronounced the original reaction .
This serves to demonstrate the presence of infinitesimal traces of chlorides , and , consequently , when we find , after the fullest precautions have been taken , that a tissue element or a cellular constituent gives no silver reaction , we can be certain that haloids are not present , in other words , such structures are absolutely free from them .
It may be objected that , at most , only 8 per cent , of the chloride is converted into the subchloride , and , therefore , if the quantity of the chloride formed should be very minute , that of the subchloride resulting being not more than one-twelfth of the other , might escape observation , or be invisible , while the structures under consideration could not be considered to be free from chlorides .
This may be met by pointing out that , if we add nitrate of silver to a solution of sodium chloride corresponding to one part of chlorine in 1,000,000 , the opalescence resulting is distinct , and , after the action of sunlight , the reduction is observable .
Here one part of chlorine in 12,000,000 at least of water serves to demonstrate not only its own presence but also that of the other 11 parts .
On this account the reaction is the most sensitive , the most delicate one that is to be found in micro-chemistry .
When it is not obtained in a tissue or cellular element , one may safely conclude that chlorides are wholly absent from it .
There is another reagent of which we made some use , and which we found serviceable .
This was a solution of mercurous nitrate .
When a quantity of this is added to a solution of a chloride , there results , as is well known , a white precipitate of mercurous chloride , whose solubility is 3T parts in 1,000,000 of water at 18 ' C. , while the chloride of silver is soluble to the extent of 1*7 parts in the same quantity of water at the same temperature.* The mercurous chloride is , therefore , slightly more soluble than the silver chloride , and the mercurous reagent is consequently less sensitive than the other as a precipitant for chlorides , but against this may be placed the fact that it is possible in tissues to reveal the presence of the mercurous chloride formed , while the presence of the whole of the chloride of silver pre* These results were obtained by calculation from the electrical conductivity of AgCl+Aq and Hg2Cl2 + Aq , by Kohlrausch and Rose ( ' Zeit .
fur Physik .
Chem. , ' vol. 12 , p. 241 ) .
Halleman ( ibid. , p. 132 ) found 1 part of AgCl soluble in 715,800 parts of water at 13''8 C. , and in 384,100 at 26'-5 C. Stas , on the other hand , states ( ' Untersuchungen iiber Chem. Proportioned Transl .
by Aronstein , pp , 46 and 47 ) that 1/ 20 , and even 1/ 100 milligramme of silver can be demonstrated in 1 litre of water by the addition of sodium chloride .
1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides Nerve Cells and Fibres .
175 cipitated is demonstrated by only one-twelfth of its quantity developed as subchloride .
The preparation of the reagent is that described by Fresenius :* one part of pure nitric acid of 12 specific gravity is poured on one part of pure mercury , , and the containing vessel is allowed to stand 24 hours in a cool place .
The crystals formed are separated from the undissolved mercury and the mother liquor , and , after trituration in a mortar , dissolved in water mixed with one-sixteenth part of nitric acid .
The solution , which must be saturated , is filtered , and the filtrate is kept in contact with metallic mercury .
When the reagent is to be used , one part of the solution is diluted with three parts of water .
The reagent is applied to the teased-out nerve fibres , and left in contact with them for half an hour , after which they are washed in distilled water , frequently changed for about two to three hours , and finally mounted in a mixture of 50 per cent , glycerine and ammonium sulphide , which latter converts the white mercurous chloride precipitate into black mercuric sulphide .
If it is properly washed with water to remove the precipitant , the final reaction should indicate the distribution of the chlorides .
The results obtained by the use of this reagent corroborated the conclusions drawn from the results of the use of the nitrate of silver .
As a reagent for the detection of chlorides it is not a ready penetrant of tissues , and this cannot be overcome by the addition of an acid , as the latter is apt to convert it into the mercuric salt , which is not a precipitant for chlorides .
IY.\#151 ; The Results .
A. In Nerve Fibre.\#151 ; If one places a teased-out portion of the sciatic nerve of a frog , guinea-pig , or rat in the silver reagent for about half an hour , and then , without further treatment , in the sunlight , inspection under the microscope reveals the occurrence in the fibres of the appearances known as the crosses of Eanvier , structures which are due to a deposit of silver chloride in the annular ring of the node and in the axon in the immediate vicinity of the ring , the silver chloride on reduction having a dark brown , or sepia , or even black colour .
There is no evidence in such preparations of chlorides in other parts of the axons .
That the crosses are due to the precipitation at those points of chlorides is shown by the fact that the reagents which dissolve silver chloride also dissolve this deposit before it is reduced by light .
For example , calcium chloride , magnesium chloride , sodium thiosulphate , potassium cyanide and potassium and sodium chlorides , * 'Manual of Qualitative Chemical Analysis , ' American Edition , 1898 , p. 111 .
176 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , each in 5-per-cent , solution , dissolves out the deposits , beginning first with the annular ring , and proceeding inwards along the axon .
Fig. 2 , Plate 2 , represents preparations in which the earlier stages in this solution have already taken place , and in consequence the precipitate in the immediate vicinity of the node has been removed by the potassium cyanide solution .
When the preparation was first of all put into cane sugar solution of 5'60 per cent , strength , or into a 1'09-per-cent , solution of potassium nitrate , * the shape and general appearance of the fibres were on the whole maintained , but subsequent treatment with the silver reagent gave no silver reaction at the nodes .
These solutions dissolve out of the nerve fibres , or at least from the neighbourhood of their nodes , the salts they contain , and the sugar or the nitrate diffuses in , with the result that no precipitate of chloride of silver occurs .
Also when the fresh preparations are placed for even a couple of minutes in distilled water , there is a considerable diminution in the amount of the silver precipitate at the nodes , though Frommann 's lines may be found for a short distance on each side of any one of them .
When their stay in distilled water covers as much as 15 minutes , the silver precipitate does not appear at the nodes or elsewhere .
One may admit that these solutions dissolve out other constituents in addity.n to chlorides , and consequently the absence of a silver reaction in such a case does not of itself alone point to the chlorides as the necessary factor in the precipitation , but taken in conjunction with the results of the treatment of the unreduced precipitate with solutions of potassium cyanide , sodium thiosulphate , the chlorides of calcium , magnesium , sodium , and potassium , as well as with dilute ammonia , all of which dissolve more or less readily silver chloride , one can but conclude that the precipitate which forms at the nodes is that of chloride of silver .
There is , further , the fact that there are no compounds , either inorganic or organic , except the chlorides and creatin and taurin , in the physiological economy which , in the presence of free nitric acid , give with silver salts precipitates which darken in the sunlight , and it is from data supplied by analyses of nerve tissue impossible to regard the silver precipitate of nerve fibres as in part due to either creatin or taurin , or both .
This conclusion is further fortified by the results of treatment of nerve fibres with the mercurous nitrate reagent , followed , as described in the section on methods , by the application of ammonium sulphide .
The reaction depends on the formation of the highly insoluble mercurous chloride and the demonstration of the presence of this precipitate by its conversion into the * These solutions are approximately isotonic with 0'64-per-cent , solution of sodium chloride .
1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides in Nerve Cells and 177 black mercuric sulphide .
When care is taken in using this method , the results , which will be more fully described below , are curiously like those which the silver reagent furnishes ( figs. 10 and 11 , Plate 3 ) .
That the darkened silver precipitate is not metallic silver is shown by the fact that it is soluble in solutions of potassium cyanide , but insoluble in dilute nitric acid , which latter reagent readily dissolves metallic silver .
These results indicate that the reduced silver compound in the nerve fibre reacts in the same manner as does the subchloride of silver when similarly treated in the test tube .
When nerve fibres are left for a longer time than half an hour , for example , 24 hours , in the silver reagent , the reaction is found to cover a greater extent of the fibre , and it may occasionally happen that it extends over nearly all an intemodal segment , leaving only a slight extent of the axon , midway between two nodes , unaffected .
Here one may see the lines of Frommann very distinct , and one finds invariably also that each of the dark striae increases in superficial area with the distance from the node , but at the same time they diminish in the intensity of their tint , and are separated from each other by wider interstriate zones .
This result would appear to be due to two causes , one of which is that , remote from the nodes of Eanvier , the axon swells to several times the diameter of the axon at the node , and the other that the reagent , which mainly attacks the axon through the node , becomes more dilute as it penetrates .
This dilution of the reagent , which affects only the silver salt , not the acid , robs it of its fixing power , and thus promotes its distending effect on the axons .
Sometimes there is found the further result , represented in fig. 1 , a , where the chlorides are diffused from the swollen axon into the immediately adjacent medulla , and consequently Frommann 's lines fail to appear there .
This result may be , and often is , much more pronounced in preparations treated with a decinormal solution of silver nitrate containing from 5 to 10 per cent , of free nitric acid .
An example of this is represented in fig. 8 , where the medulla of the parts remote from the nodes is shown impregnated throughout with chlorides diffused from the axon .
It is , therefore , at the nodes and in their immediate vicinity that one obtains always , or nearly always , the best silver chloride reaction , regard being had to the character and disposition of the precipitate , and to the proper fixation of the axon , and it is also in the neighbourhood of the nodes that one finds , after treatment of nerve fibre with the silver reagent , the most typical examples of Frommann 's lines .
To get the reaction extend as far as possible along the axon , one must treat the nerve fibres with a decinormal solution of silver nitrate in which the strength of the acid has been increased to 10 per cent. Acted on for four 178 Prof. A. B. Macalltim and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , or five hours many fibres show the typical Frommann striation to extend over considerable extents of their axons .
There are , as already pointed out , in such preparations fibres which show very considerable alterations in the disposition of the chlorides , and this is a serious objection to the employment of a solution of the reagent in which the nitric acid is so highly concentrated .
If the reagent of this strength diffuses into the fibre properly , the result should be , and usually is , a striking demonstration of Frommann 's lines over a considerable extent of many of the affected axons .
On the other hand , a diffuse silver reaction in the axons of fibres of the same preparation is , in the majority of cases at least , the result of the failure of the reagent to penetrate normally , and the diffuse reaction itself is very often an indication of an artificially altered distribution of the chlorides of the axon .
It is otherwise with nerve fibres which , like those of the spinal cord or of the optic nerve , are unprovided with neurilemmal sheaths , for these may , and oftenest do , show a uniformly diffused reaction for chloride of silver extending over long stretches of the axons and wholly confined to them .
These axons are not swollen or altered in any morphological aspect , and everything indicates that the reaction they give is not , as in the case of fibres provided with neurilemmata , due to imperfect penetration , but rather to rapid diffusion into the axons and the immediate precipitation of the chlorides before these can be redistributed .
Such preparations may be obtained by pressing portions of the spinal cord between two slides to very thin layers , and treating them at once and for 24 hours with either the ordinary reagent or that in which the acid constituent is of 10-per-cent , strength .
Many of the fibres in such cases are easily and completely interrupted at points by the pressure to which they are subjected , and in consequence one may find amongst them portions of axons which reveal a Frommann striation as pronounced as any that may be found in fibres provided with neurilemmata , and these lie side by side with greater lengths of uninterrupted nerve fibres which show a diffuse silver reaction confined to unswollen and normal axons .
The explanation for the differences in the silver reaction between fibres from the spinal cord on the one hand and those from ordinary nerves on the other must be referred to the absence or presence of the neurilemma .
Ordinary nerve fibres are not readily penetrated by the silver reagent except at the nodes , and even when the nitric acid in the reagent is of 10-per-cent , strength , the point of entrance is still , in great part , if not wholly , the node , whereas in preparations from the spinal cord , the medullated fibres of which have no neurilemmal sheaths , the noteworthy 1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides Nerve Cells and Fibres .
179 feature is the penetration , by even the weaker reagent , of long sections of such fibres in as short a period as an hour , an interval of action on nerve fibre with neurilemmal sheaths which would allow only of the demonstration of little more than sufficient to bring out the crosses of Banvier .
In support of the view that the neurilemma acts as a very considerable barrier to the penetration of nitrate of silver , the results of observations on nerve fibres of invertebrates may be detailed .
In the decapod Crustacea ( lobster and crayfish ) the nerve fibres of the ganglionic cord are ensheathed each in membranes which , except for the nuclei observed here and there on their course , are homogeneous and vary very considerably in thickness with the fibres which they cover , being 05 to in the extraordinarily thick fibres ( 100 to 150 fx)and discernible with difficulty in those which are very narrow ( 2 to 5 / t).* This sheath is , therefore , morphologically different from the neurilemma of vertebrate nerve fibres , but it certainly exercises the functions of that structure .
When the teased-out fresh fibres of the ganglionic chain of the lobster or crayfish are treated with the acid nitrate of silver solution for 24 hours , the reagent penetrates the sheaths of the larger fibres only slowly , and gives to their contents a diffuse chloride reaction , usually a feeble one , but varying according to the degree of penetration .
The penetration of the smaller fibres is always more pronounced , owing to the greater tenuity of the membrane , and , in consequence , one gets reactions , like that represented in fig. 9 , a , limited to the contents in which , besides the diffused condition of the chloride precipitate , there is also a finely granular deposit of the latter .
When the reagent , instead of entering the nerve fibre through the intact sheath , gains access to the axial contents by the open ends of a torn or interrupted membrane , the result is a Frommann striation .
This has been seen by us only very rarely in the case of the larger fibres , but frequently in the smaller ones , long segments of which exhibited the peculiarity .
The striation found was typical ( fig. 9 , b ) , and was often seen in fibres immediately adjacent to others whose sheaths were intact and in which the reaction was a uniformly diffuse one .
This is , we believe , the first instance observed of the production of the striae in the nerve fibres of invertebrates , and the failure of Jakimovitch and others to obtain such striae in their preparations may have been due to the possibility that they did not tease out their preparations so as to allow the reagent to penetrate sufficiently the parts , or that they did not make sufficiently extensive observations on their material .
* Emil Yung , " Recherches sir la Structure Intime et les Fonctions du Systeme Nerveux Central chez les Crustaces Decapodes , " 'Arch , de Zool. Exper./ vol. 7 , p. 401 , 1878 .
180 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , That the neurilemma in vertebrate nerve fibres is not the only structure preventing the entrance of the reagent is shown by the fact that even in the fibres of the lateral columns of the cord ( guinea-pig , rat , and rabbit ) the reagent takes time to penetrate .
This must be due to the medulla , for in the pressed-out preparations the short portions of fibres with free ends in many cases show Frommann 's lines , an indication that the reagent penetrated at the open free ends , and that where a more or less long fibre , not cut by the pressure into portions , exhibited the striation of its axon , it was caused by an injury at some point on its course , permitting the reagent to diffuse into the fibre there more readily than through the intact medulla .
It is to be noted that owing to the absence of the neurilemmal sheath , the medullated fibres of the spinal cord are much more fragile than are those provided with Schwann 's sheath , and it is owing to this that pressure will give isolated short segments in the former readily and in the latter only with difficulty and then rarely .
It is these segments , as a rule , that in the spinal cord , as already stated , show most often the striation .
Such segments may be compared to the segments or short portions of capillary glass tubes filled with egg albumen which , as will be described below , give , when placed in a bath of the silver reagent , a striation like in every respect that found in silver preparations of medullated fibre .
One may in a similar manner explain the results obtained by applying the mercurous nitrate reagent to nerve fibres to demonstrate the distribution of the chlorides .
As already pointed out , this reagent is but little less sensitive a test for the chlorides than is the nitrate of silver , and , when it is carefully applied , it gives quite all the results that the other does .
It , for example , brings out the crosses of Ranvier ( figs. 10 , a\#151 ; cl ) .
In the parts of the axon remote from the nodes it demonstrates the chlorides , but the mercurous chloride precipitate is often not uniformly distributed in the axon ( figs. 12\#151 ; 15 ) , and the latter is frequently curiously altered in form and character ( fig. 14 ) .
Sometimes the precipitate is on the surface of the axon and between it and the medullary sheath .
As a rule , it is rarely found to occur for more than a short distance on each side of the node , and here it may give the Frommann striation .
In fibres which , as is rarely the case , the striation is in parts of the axon remote from the nodes ( fig. 11 , it would appear as if the reagent penetrated the fibre by the clefts of Lanterman ( fig. 13 ) .
Such , and a number of other like results , seem to indicate that there are weak points in the medullated fibre provided with a neurilemma , but that , on the whole , the latter is a bar to the direct penetration to the axon by the reagent .
Quite otherwise was the result of treatment of teased-out preparations 1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides in Nerve Cells and Fibres .
181 of the spinal cord ( rat ) with the reagent .
In such preparations there were a large number of medullated fibres which exhibited , over long stretches of their axons , a striation quite as marked and as characteristic as one may obtain in pressed-out preparations of the cord treated with the nitrate of silver reagent .
Such a striation as obtained by the mercurous nitrate reagent is represented in fig. 16 .
Nothing approaching this has been obtained with the same reagent in nerve fibres having a neurilemma .
On the other hand , this reagent can pass through the medulla of the fibres of the cord , and give , as did the nitrate of silver , a diffuse reaction for chlorides .
There can , therefore , be no doubt that the axon is rich in chlorides , but that these cannot be demonstrated readily therein , except at the nodes , in fibres provided with a neurilemmal sheath , and the difficulty is due , though not wholly , to the neurilemma .
When this is absent one may obtain such a demonstration more or less readily , and the result appears in the form of the Frommann striation or in a diffuse reaction throughout the axon .
It is now a question whether the striation or the diffuse reaction indicates the true distribution of the chlorides in the fibre .
That the striation cannot represent it seems to be indicated by the fact that the striae which are remote from a node may be and are usually less distinct , broader and wider than those in the neighbourhood of a node , and that there are degrees of transition from the distinct narrow to the less deeply stained broad ones .
Grandry , Joseph and Jakimovitch hold that it demonstrates a pre-existent arrangement of substance in the axon , and the last named would explain their presence as a necessary factor in the functional activity of nerve fibres , while Boveri and Rqbl regard the striation as not due to a pre-existent disposition of the substance of the axon , the former explaining the striation as a result of physical causes .
A good deal of light has been thrown on the causation of this striation by the discovery of Boehm* that solutions of egg-albumen in capillary glass tubes , when placed in solutions of nitrate of silver , show the silver chloride as a precipitate to appear as strise transversely placed in the lumen , and more recently by the observations of Liesegangf on the diffusion of silver nitrate in films or columns of gelatine impregnated with potassium bichromate .
When a drop of nitrate of silver solution is placed on a glass plate faced with a film of gelatine impregnated with the bichromate salt , the silver salt diffuses slowly and in an ever-growing circular area concentric with the drop , and , as it diffuses , it forms a precipitate in the gelatine of silver chromate * Boveri , loc. cit. , gives the only account accessible of Boehm 's discovery .
t ' Chemische Beaktionen in Gallerten , ' Diisseldorf , 1898 ; also Liesegang 's ' Photo .
Archiv , ' 1896 , p. 321 .
VOL. LXXVII.\#151 ; B. 0 182 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , which , however , is not deposited uniformly , but in rings , all concentric also , each separated from its neighbour on both sides by clear zones free , or almost free , from silver chromate .
These zones increase in width from the centre to the periphery .
When the bichromate-holding gelatine is in open capillary tubes the silver salt penetrates , and as it diffuses in silver chromate-holding zones , develops alternately with silver chromate-free bands , and the latter increase in width with the distance from the point of penetration , i.e. , the open end of the capillary tube .
The phenomenon found by Boehm was explained by Boveri as indicated in the section on the literature .
Ostwald* has applied to Liesegang 's rings the explanation that in the diffusion of the silver salt and the consequent formation of silver chromate , the metastable and labile conditions of solutions of the latter salt alternately prevail , the metastable stage as it is developing into the highest degree of supersaturation , i.e. , the labile condition , diffusing through an extent of the gelatine film or of the gelatine column that is to constitute an interstriate zone .
When the critical concentration in the advancing solution is reached , then the precipitation begins and continues , thus forming a stria .
The precipitation brings the solution back to the metastable condition , then another development into the labile condition obtains and as before a new interstriate zone and a new stria result .
This process is repeated indefinitely so long as the diffusion occurs , but as the silver salt becomes more and more dilute , critical concentration is later and later attained , and in consequence the new striae are separated from each other by broader and broader interstriate intervals .
Also , although this is not included in Ostwald 's explanation , the striae themselves must , for the same reasons , become broader but less pronounced in density .
Ostwald 's explanation is accepted by Morse and Pierce , f who , working on the rate of diffusion in capillary tubes filled with chromate-holding gelatine when placed in silver nitrate solutions , found xj\/ t is a constant .
The phenomenon has also been studied by Hausmann , ^ who determined that the rate of formation of the precipitate is nearly proportional to the rate of diffusion of the ions of the salts concerned , and in consequence it has been suggested that the rate of precipitation be taken as a measure of the * ' Zeit .
fur physik .
Chem. , ' vol. 22 , p. 302 , 1897 , and vol. 23 , p. 365 , 1898 ; also 'Lehrbuch der allgem .
Chemie , ' 2 Aufl .
, vol. 2 , p. 778 .
t " Diffusion und Ubersattigung in Gelatine , " ' Zeit .
fur physik .
Chem. , ' vol. 45 , p. 589 , 1903 .
J " Uber Niederschlagebildungen in Gallerten , " 'Zeit .
fur anorg .
Chem. , ' vol. 40 , p. 110 , 1904 .
1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides in Nerve Cells and Fibres .
183 velocity of migration of the ions , and Traube , in his comments* on the same paper , remarks that the formation of the vesicular and reticular structures in cell protoplasm are due to the same process that evolves the rings and striae described by Liesegang .
In order to study the relation of these striae to those found by Frommann in medullated nerve fibres , we prepared capillary tubes with filtered egg albumen , cut them into short pieces 10 to 15 mm. in length , and placed them in the N/ 10 nitrate of silver solution containing 1*5 per cent , of free nitric acid .
They were observed under the microscope with powers magnifying from 90 to 590 diameters , and the progress of the reaction , exposed as the tubes were to a bright sunlight , could be followed from point to point readily because of the reduction of the silver chloride .
This reaction advanced from both ends of each section but it usually ceased before the middle of the tube was reached .
In every case the striae appeared pronounced .
The appearances which they gave are represented in figs. 20 and 21 , a being the part of the column nearest the entrance of the tubes .
In both it is seen that the striae cease at a point beyond which only a general and diffuse precipitation of silver chloride is found .
This is not always the case , for one finds in some tubes also where the striae cease , so likewise does the precipitation .
With a higher magnification it is shown that the interstriate zones contain a fine precipitate whose occurrence may be overlooked .
It is to be noticed also that the borders of the striae are not linearly or sharply defined , for the granules are often scattered and sparse at the edge of the stria , but in its centre they are densely aggregated .
It is found also that there usually is a gradual broadening of both the striae and the interstriate zones as one follows the column inwards , and the striae become at the same time less and less distinct until , as represented in fig. 21 , they are lost in the ordinary precipitate .
Sometimes an interval of unstriated material , showing an irregularly disposed precipitate , interrupts the striated column at one end , and sometimes also the interruption may be very short , and of such an appearance as to suggest a complete fusion of several striae .
Now and then one may find that the interruption is intensely coloured , this apparently depending on a greater concentration of sodium chloride in the albumen at the point than elsewhere in the tube .
The striae on either side of the interrupting area may be very dissimilar in breadth and not belong to the same series .
In order to determine whether concentration of the chlorides in the albumen would influence in any way the character of the striation , we added to portions of the albumen enough sodium chloride to make the concentration * Ibid. , p. 145 .
o 2 * Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , of that salt double , treble , quadruple , and so on , of the original amount of chlorides present , * and capillary tubes filled with such albumen solutions were prepared .
It was found that concentrations beyond 3T68 per cent , of sodium chloride did not give striations , while they were infrequently obtained in concentrations between this limit and that of 2'016 per cent , and then only-near the ends of the capillary tubes.f At the very entrance the striae , if definable , were so with difficulty , and the albumen column at and near this point manifested more often a dense , uniform reaction .
In order to determine if gelatine gives different results , tubes filled with commercial gelatine^ were treated as in the case of albumen , and it was found that the striae and interstriate zones were always broader , while interruptions were very frequent in the striate sections of the tubes .
Even when the percentage of chlorine was made equivalent to that of egg-albumen by the addition of a sufficient quantity of sodium chloride , the striae were always broader , as were also interstriate zones , than in egg-albumen ; figs. 22 and 25 illustrate this difference , the former representing an albumen preparation , the latter a gelatine one .
The reason for this difference is that gelatine is a solvent to a certain extent for argentic and argentous chloride and in consequence the critical concentration , the labile condition , can be attained only after a longer interval of time than that required in the case of albumen , during which the silver salt is diffusing onward in the column .
This alone would entail in each case a very broad interstriate zone and also a broad zone of precipitation .
The Fromm an n striation in nerve fibres is in no whit different from that found in capillary tubes .
As already pointed out , the striae in nerve fibres broaden with the distance from the node of Eanvier , while in the neighbourhood of the latter they are almost in contact with one another and give the axon here a uniformly dense reaction .
With the distance also each stria * The amount of chlorine as chlorides in the white of egg , as calculated from the analyses of Poleck ( ' Pogg .
Anna ! .
, ' vol. 79 , p. 155 ) , and Weber vol. 71 , p. 91 ) , ranges from 0'165 to 0*1848 per cent. The mean between the two extremes , 0T749 per cent. , corresponds to 0'288 per cent , of sodium chloride .
To quantities of the original albumen enough sodium chloride was added to make a series of percentages from 0-576 , 0'864 , 1'152 up to the twelfth multiple , i.e. , 3-456 .
f Macdonald ( " On the Injury Current of Nerve : the Key to its Physical Structure , " ' Thompson-Yates Laboratories Keport , ' vol. 4 , 1902 , p. 213 ) , on the basis of the electrical conductivity of nerve fibres , has estimated it to be that of a 2-6-per-cent , solution of KC1 .
The chlorine of such a solution would correspond to that of a 2'04-per-cent .
solution of NaCl .
I The quantity of chlorine in specimens of the commercial gelatine we used was determined by us and found to be 0'41 per cent. In a 10-per-cent , solution of gelatine the chlorine would be oidy 0"04 per cent. 1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides Nerve Cells and Fibres .
185 becomes more distinctly resolvable into granules .
Further , there are now and then in the striated portion of the axon short segments where the deposit is a uniform one , and on either side of one of these segments the striae differ in their breadth so much as to suggest that they do not belong to the same series .
Of all these points one finds illustrations also in glass capillary tubes .
Further , the fusion of several striae referred to as occurring in glass tubes occurs in the axons , and has been described under the term biconical swelling ( " renflement biconique " of Eanvier ) .
The enlargement cannot , of course , take place in a rigid tube while the medullary sheath and the neurilemma are to a certain extent elastic and permit such alterations in the thickness of the axon as the enlargements referred to .
Boveri held that the enlargements are really an extra axial or periaxial deposits of silver at the node , but the fact that we can obtain such enlargements in the medullated fibres of the cord ( rat , guinea-pig and frog ) where there are no nodes , does not lend any support to this view .
There is but one feature in the Frommann striation which we have not found in capillary tubes , and it does not occur very frequently .
This is seen in a division of a single striation into two imperfectly separated halves ( fig. 6 , b ) .
This may be explained as due to a local condition of the nerve fibre like or similar to that which in capillary tubes may result in producing an interruption of the striated column .
In view of all these facts , the Frommann striation must not be regarded as an indication of the disposition of the chlorides in transversely arranged zones in the nerve fibre intra vitam , but it is rather the result of the operation of physical processes which in capillary tubes produce the Boehm ( or Liesegang ) phenomenon .
The medullary sheath is in the great majority of the nerve fibres free from chlorides , but in the remainder a reaction for chlorides may be obtained at points along the course of the sheath , as in the preparation represented in fig. 18 , which is of interest in view of the fact that a similar distribution of a potassium salt has been observed occasionally , * and it would indicate that chloride of potassium is present at these points .
It is , however , more frequently in the imbrications of Lanterman than in other parts of the medullary sheath that one obtains the reactions for chlorides .
One finds now and then all the imbrications in a long extent of the fibre revealed by the chloride reactions ( fig. 19 ) , and so fully as to bring into prominence the funnel-shaped outlines of these structures ( fig. 10 , d ) .
In these , also , the potassium reaction was occasionally obtained and , therefore , a part at least * Macallum , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 32 , p. 95 .
186 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , of the quantity of the chlorine present as chlorides must occur as potassium chloride .
The fact that this salt occasionally occurs in the imbrications , is an indication that these are the weak points in the sheath through which the salts of the lymph bathing the nerve fibres can penetrate to the axon .
Indeed , as already stated , an imbrication may be the point of entrance for the reagent to bring out the Frommann striation ( fig. 13 , a ) .
The double character of each of the imbrication funnels seems to show that the chlorides do not obtain so much in the cavity of the clefts of the imbrications as in their walls .
The absence of chlorides from the rest of the medullary sheath in the normal nerve fibre is noteworthy , and can be interpreted as signifying that the medulla is a very effective barrier to the passage , on the one hand , of chlorides from without the nerve fibre and , on the other , of the haloid salt from the deeply charged axon into the contiguous fat-holding neurokeratin network .
The retention of the chloride in the axon must in very large part , if not wholly , be due to the property of the sheath .
B. In Nerve Cells.\#151 ; Frommann , G-randry , and Jakimovitch found that nerve cells give a reaction with silver salts like that which may be obtained in the nerve fibre , but Frommann found that it was a diffuse one in the cytoplasm , more or less implicating the nucleus and the nucleolus , while the two last named observers obtained in their preparations a transverse striation of the nerve cells like , in every respect , that occurring in the axons , and apparently constituting a continuation of it .
The occurrence of a striation has been observed by us in a few of the nerve cells from the anterior horn of grey matter of the spinal cord of the frog and guinea-pig , the striation affecting , in the majority of instances observed , only a portion of the cell , and appearing to be an extension of the striation from one of the polar processes of the cell .
The nucleus was in not one instance affected , and when it appeared to be , it was found that the result was really due to the colour reaction of the cytoplasm above or under the plane of the nucleus .
These instances of striation of the nerve cell were exceptional cases .
In the pressed-out preparations of the spinal cord treated with the acid nitrate of silver solution for 24 hours , when the nerve cells were affected they usually showed a brownish-yellow reaction of the cytoplasm , but an absolutely uncoloured nucleus and nucleolus .
The reaction was a diffuse one , but sometimes so far particularised as to give the appearance of a longitudinal striation , suggesting a slight degree of fibrillation , yet in no case was it marked enough to indicate that it was anything more than an artefact .
A more pronounced 1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides in Nerve Cells and Fibres .
187 degree of fibrillation was found by Frommann and Grandry , but their results in this respect may be explained as due to the same cause , for they left a weak solution of the reagent in contact with the cells for a time sufficient to bring about alterations in structure .
Nerve cells are very difficult of penetration by the acid reagent , and in consequence those of the sympathetic and spinal ganglia in vertebrates , and of the ganglionic cord in Crustacea ( lobster and crayfish ) , only rarely give a reaction extending throughout all the cytoplasm , this being limited usually to the more peripheral portions of the cell protoplasm .
So deep , however , was this peripheral reaction in certain cases , that the interior of the cell , including the nucleus , was obscured .
When the whole of the cytoplasm was uniformly affected , the colour was less pronounced , and the nucleus with its silver white appearance was visible .
The deep reaction limited to the periphery in some of the cells , and the lighter diffuse reaction in others , seem to suggest that when the reagent does not readily penetrate , the chloride present diffuses out to meet the silver salt and , accordingly , to give in the outer zone of the cytoplasm a silver chloride deposit more abundant than that which would be there if there were no diffusion and redistribution of the chloride .
In the pressed-out preparations of the cord of the guinea-pig and frog , the reagent gained access at once to the cytoplasm of many of the cells because the greater part of the surface of each was thus exposed to the solution , but in not one instance did the reaction advance beyond the brownish-yellow colour .
The light reaction of the cytoplasm , considered with the fact that the latter is usually voluminous , may be held to signify that the protoplasm of nerve cells is less rich in the chloride than is the axon which arises from it .
In several preparations we found such a disposition of the chloride reaction in the cytoplasm as to make us question whether the Nissl granules contain any of the chloride present in the cytoplasm generally .
The reagent does not bring out these granules usually , and when they are seen , it is through the cytoplasm coloured by the reaction .
They thus appear affected by the reaction , and it is consequently difficult to say whether they are free from chlorides or not .
That the nucleus of the nerve cell is free from chloride compounds is not true only of these cells , for the senior author 's observations go to show that the nuclei of all cells , animal and vegetable , which are in a normal condition } are absolutely free from chlorides .
Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , Y.\#151 ; General Remarks .
The observations detailed in the foregoing pages make it possible , at least to a certain extent , to understand nerve conductivity , and perhaps also nerve irritability .
The occurrence of chlorine in the form of chloride or chlorides in the axon , uniformly distributed throughout its extent , may now be regarded as established .
The concentration in the axon also is greater than that in the fluid lymph bathing the fibre , for the silver reaction in the elements external to the fibre does not at all approach in intensity that which may be obtained in the axon .
As lymph contains not more than 062 per cent , sodium chloride , the concentration in the axon must considerably exceed that .
If the chlorine is present as more than one chloride compound , then it must be in combination with sodium , calcium , and magnesium , potassium being excluded.* If only one chloride obtains in the axon , it is inferentially that of sodium .
The chloride or chlorides are , in part at least , in solution in the material constituting the axon , and thus obtains the electrolytic condition which would explain the conductivity of the axon , the propagation of the nerve impulse itself , and apparently also the excitable efficiency of the nerve fibre .
That all of the chloride or chlorides cannot be in the ordinary state of solution would seem to follow from the facts regarding the velocity of the nerve impulse .
If the latter is , fundamentally , an electrical change in the process of being propagated along the axon , it should , provided the chloride or chlorides are in a simple state of solution , have a velocity enormously greater than its maximum has been ascertained to be , that is , 64 metres per second .
On the assumption that the nerve impulse is , fundamentally , electrical , such a diminution in the velocity postulates a disposition of the chloride or chlorides in the axon very different from that in a simple aqueous solution of them .
This difference may be attributed to the condition of the colloid material in the axon .
A " solution " of colloid matter , at least of the organic sort , has , as is well known , properties very unlike those of a solution of a simple inorganic compound , sodium chloride or potassium sulphate , for example , properties * Macallum , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 32 , p. 1 , 1905 .
Note.\#151 ; Macdonald , in a recent contribution ( " The Structure and Function of Nerve Fibres , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 76 , p. 322 , 1905 ) , holds that potassium is present in a concealed , or " masked , " condition in the substance of the axon of the normal fibre , and therefore not demonstrable ordinarily with the heaxanitrite of cobalt and sodium , but that it is set free from the masked condition when the axon is injured .
1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides in Nerve Cells and Fibres .
189 which specially distinguish it from solutions of inorganic compounds in respect to osmotic pressure , electrical conductivity , cryoscopy and the effect exercised on transmitted light .
These properties , and particularly the facts obtained by the use of the ultramicroscopic apparatus on " solutions " of colloids , compel , as it were , the conclusion that the necessary feature of such " solutions " is a state of suspension of particles of a magnitude beyond the limits of microscopic vision.* It is not necessary to discuss the cause of such a state of suspension or why it is indefinitely maintained without any trace of sedimentation , as the force or forces concerned , whether electrical , as Bredig , Hardy and Billitzer hold , or otherwise , do not immediately affect the question of the physical division of the colloid in the fluid , and we have now only to deal with the problem of the structural character of the particles in suspension .
How these particles in their contact relations with the molecules of water differ from inorganic compounds in the same situation is not determined , but the dominant view is that the colloid particles are not single molecules but aggregates of such molecules and , of course , this excludes the possibility of an intimate association of the molecules with those of water .
It is , however , not to be supposed that the molecules of water do not penetrate the aggregates , for it is not , otherwise , possible to understand why the particles in organosols should exhibit such a degree of transparency in the ultramicroscopic apparatus , or why the addition of certain non-electrolytes should bring about precipitation of the particles .
Indeed , one of the two phases possible in the relations of colloids to water necessarily postulates the presence of water molecules in the interior of the colloid particles .
The superficial portions of such particles must be regarded as exercising a considerable check on the process of diffusion from , or into , their interior , as the results of efforts made to obtain chloride-free globulins and albumins show .
As already pointed out , f at least eight precipitations with ammonium sulphate are required to free the proteids of egg-albumen and serum from the associated chlorides , and this number suffices only if the precipitate after each precipitation is dissolved and kept in solution for a day at least before the next precipitate is brought about .
When a much shorter time was allowed , for example , a couple of hours , the proteid of the twentieth precipitate still contained demonstrable quantities of chlorides .
These results seem to indicate that a part of the chlorides present is in such intimate association with the colloid particles that when these are * Zsigmondy , " Ueber Kolloidale Losungen , " ' Zeit .
fur Elektrochemie , ' 1902 , No. 32 ; Zsigmondy und Siedentopf , ' Annalen der Physik , ' vol. 10 , p. 1 , 1903 ; also Gatin-Gruzewska and Biltz , ' Arch , fur die ges .
Physiol. , ' vol. 105 , 1904 , p. 115 .
t Macallum , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 76 , p. 217 , 1905 .
190 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , brought into suspension ( or " solution " ) in chloride-free water the chloride only slowly diffuse into the fluid surrounding or enveloping each particle .
To account fully for such a result one may suppose that the chlorides , so difficult to remove , are in the fluid which obtains in the interior of the particles , the superficial layer of each of which is permeable ( or impermeable ) to such a degree as its extreme tenuity would permit.* Suspensions of such chloride-holding molecular aggregates in waterf would manifest some degree of electrical conductivity , for if the suspended particles were numerous enough to form a more or less continuous series , the ionisation necessary for conductivity would occur , but the velocity of the ions , at least of those remaining in the interior of the particles , would be diminished .
All this has a bearing on the question of nerve conductivity and on the nature of the nerve impulse itself .
The nerve axon consists in large part of colloids ( proteids ) in suspension , and in such a degree of concentration as to give a firm consistency to the axon.| In the particles of this suspension a part at least of the chloride or * The same explanation may be advanced in the case of some inorganic colloids .
In colloidal silica subjected to prolonged dialysis sodium compounds are present ( Jordis and Kanter , ' Zeit .
fiir anorg .
Chemie , ' vol. 34 , p. 455 , vol. 35 , p. 16 ) .
In the case of colloidal ferric hydroxide " solution , " Hantzsch ( ' Annalen der Chemie , ' vol. 323 , p. 1 ) found that silver nitrate did not precipitate all the chlorine present , and that the ferric hydroxide precipitate , obtained by the addition of salts , although very carefully washed , still contained chlorine , whose presence , however , could only be demonstrated after the washed precipitate was fused with soda .
Spiro ( ' Beitrage zur Chem. Physiol , und Path .
, ' vol. 5 , p. 276 ) found colloidal ferric hydroxide " solutions " even after months of dialysis to contain ionised as well as non-ionised chlorine , and , from quantitative analyses of the dialysed solutions , came to the conclusion that free hydrochloric acid is not present , and that colloidal ferric hydroxide is not a simple compound , but a substance of complicated constitution , or , much more probably , a mixture of compounds .
Is it not more reasonable to suppose that the peripheral layers of each colloid particle exercise a restraining influence on the transfer of the ions ?
That colloid material can manifest greatly diminished permeability to the ions , can be seen in an exaggerated degree in the case of the red blood corpuscle ( ox and cat ) , in the cell-contents of which are electrolytes , but owing to impermeability of its membrane to ions it is a non-conductor ( Bugarszky and Tangl , 'Centralbl .
fur Physiol. , ' vol. 11 , p. 297 ) .
And yet when such a corpuscle is placed in a hypotonic solution it yields to the latter not only its electrolytes , but also its haemoglobin !
+ It may be that the so-associated quantity of chlorides and , perhaps , of other inorganic compounds , equally difficult to remove , constitute the factor responsible for the very slight osmotic pressure and the very slight depression of the freezing point shown by presumably pure proteids .
| The haemoglobin in the mammalian red corpuscle is 26 to 30 per cent. , and the proteids of muscle approximate 20 per cent. , but probably amount to more in the individual fibres .
About 20 per cent , of solids would appear to be necessary to give the firm character to the axon which it possesses .
It may be that the colloids and the water in the axon in their relations of solubility may occur in the two-phase system .
1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides Nerve Cells and Fibres .
191 chlorides of nerve fibre , just as in ordinary egg-albumen , must be contained .
Such a distribution of electrolytes would not permit the ions carrying the electrical charge to travel unimpeded and , in consequence , the change of potential transmitted would progress with greatly diminished velocity .
This diminution would bring into line as parallel , if not very like , phenomena , the nerve impulse and the electrical current .
It may be freely admitted that one has not all the data necessary to establish certainty on this point , and that caution should be shown in drawing conclusions where so much is still unknown .
The facts , however , stand out prominently .
The occurrence of electrolytes , in the form of chloride or chlorides , in a concentrated degree , uniformly distributed in and along the course of the axon ; the maintenance of this concentration through the impermeability of the medullary sheath and the neurilemma ; the high conductivity of the axon ; the occurrence of electrical phenomena on injury of the axon ; these and other facts relating to the physical properties of nerve fibres justify one in proposing an explanation .
EXPLANATION OF PLATES .
Figs. 1\#151 ; 9 are from silver nitrate preparations of nerve fibres , figs. 10\#151 ; 19 represent the action of mercurous nitrate on the same , while figs. 20\#151 ; 26 illustrate the action of the silver nitrate solution on capillary tubes filled with albumen or gelatine .
Plate 2 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; a and b from the sciatic of the frog , c from the sciatic of the guinea-pig .
AgNOs ^ + l-5 per cent. HN03 , 24 hours , x 1000 .
N Fig. 2.\#151 ; Sciatic fibres , frog .
AgNOs \#151 ; + 1'5 per cent. HN03 , 24 hours , thoroughly washed , then placed in 5 per cent. CaCl2 solution : a for 2 hours , b for 8 hours , x 590 .
N Fig. 3.\#151 ; Sciatic frog .
AgN03\#151 ; + 1*5 per cent. HNG3 , 24 hours , 5 per cent. NaN03 solution , 30 hours , a is the situation of a node of Ranvier .
x 590 .
N Fig. 4.\#151 ; From spinal cord of frog .
AgNOs \#151 ; + 1*5 per cent. HN03 .
a x 3000 , b x 670 .
N Fig. 5.\#151 ; From spinal cord of frog .
AgN03 \#151 ; + 1*5 per cent. HN03 .
x 2000 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; a from spinal cord , b and c from sciatic nerve of frog , a and b illustrate the division of striae .
AgNOa ^ + 10 per cent. HN03 .
x 3000 .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; From spinal cord of guinea-pig , illustrating both the diffuse and the striated N ( laminated ) distribution of the chlorides of the axon .
AgN03 \#151 ; + 1*5 per cent. HN03 , 24 hours , x 1000 .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; From sciatic of rat , representing the distribution of the chlorides sometimes N found after treatment with AgN03 \#151 ; + 10 per cent. HN03 .
x 590 .
192 Prof. A. B. Macallum and Miss M. L. Menten .
[ July 24 , Plate 3 .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; From ganglionic cord of lobster , thoracic region ; a showing the diffuse chloride N reaction in the axon , b the striate arrangement .
AgN03 --- + 1*5 per cent. HNOs for 24 hours , x 1360 .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; a\#151 ; d , from the sciatic of frog , illustrating the distribution of chlorides as revealed by the mercurous nitrate method .
In d the clefts of Lanterman are seen as double funnels extending to the axon .
Mercurous nitrate ( S = saturation ) , 30 minutes , ammonium sulphide glycerine , x 590 .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; From the sciatic of frog , illustrating the diffuse and the laminated distribution of the chlorides , as revealed by the mercurous nitrate method .
At l in b is seen a cleft of Lanterman , somewhat obscured by the precipitate , where apparently the reagent entered to produce the Frommann striation g occurring on either side of it .
Hg2(N03)2 , 30 minutes , ammonium sulphide , glycerine , x 590 .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; From the sciatic of frog , illustrating the distribution of the chlorides , as S revealed by different strengths of the reagent , a , Hg2(N03)2 , 4 hours ; S b , Hg2(N03)2 ^- , 4 hours , ammonium sulphide , glycerine .
In b the chlorides are chiefly found on the surface of the axon , x 590 .
Figs. 13 and 14.\#151 ; From the sciatic of frog , a , cleft of Lanterman , through which the reagent has penetrated to the axon and produced in the latter the Frommann striation .
n , node of Ranvier , with the adjacent portion of the S axon striated .
Hg2(N03)2 \#151 ; , 30 minutes , ammonium sulphide , glycerine , x 590 .
Fig. 15.\#151 ; Showing diffuse distribution of the chlorides in the axons of the sciatic of s frog .
n , node of Ranvier .
Hg2(N03)2 -j , 4 hours , ammonium sulphide , glycerine , x 590 .
Fig. 16.\#151 ; From the spinal cord of frog , illustrating a typical Frommann striation , as S revealed by the mercurous nitrate method .
Hg2(N03)2 \#151 ; , 30 minutes , ammonium sulphide , glycerine , x 590 .
I facallum and Menten .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. Plate 2 .
Fig. 1 .
b Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
t 111 J*f 1 1 I If ' \#166 ; W 1 1 1 s ' 1 isis .
|| ; Fig. 4 .
m m m m $ggp M wm M mm !
W mm i sj !
mm S s g m % m \#166 ; S i s .
i !
1 * I \#171 ; 1 \#166 ; l|\#174 ; fJS W Fig. 5 .
issgwg \smmwi- \mrnmmd lagw* pH win Jp 4 % bit Fig. 6 .
s ... ... ... Hfffijtaftl Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
Ilk ekib'J !
MacaLluni an Menten .
Roy .
Soc. ProcB .
vol. Plate 3 .
Fig. 9 .
a \#166 ; ym\\ \#166 ; m\#187 ; 4 SWl % : '**$\amp ; ' : fHmi'i mm Rf l\#165 ; *Hi \#166 ; mmm .
'Mmmk pmmif j Fig. 10 , Fig. 10 .
b \E ' 'H Fig. 11 .
jta ^gc| Ip ilf S*:i \#166 ; :M'i ||ft|ll -V* \#166 ; - 1 vk i # \#166 ; \ g^gll* .^'4 p*5p h\#165 ; : \Mf ; .
4 ; \#187 ; ft ) I m gw i Fig. 16 .
Fig. 12 , 6 j Si .
| / / y '/ \#166 ; \#166 ; ; if7 * - : * # ^ PIJ ff / ;/ U fcf || b't I | / ' t. 4gr ' SW Fig. 15 .
n r ' Mctccdlumand Menten .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. Plate 4 .
Fig. 17 .
Fig. 18 .
life rt Fig. 19 .
Fig. 20 .
:*i ?
Fig. 22 .
twmttatmwm m**s\amp ; *m#m* t*m Fig. 23 .
Fig. 24 .
I II I 3* Jl 1 HI .ii \#166 ; \amp ; \amp ; \#166 ; w- , V ; \#187 ; ^ . .
Sr ' . . . ?
;9*rtWS|^ St rl Fig. 25 .
Wmm^ Fig. 26 .
' . .
|v_ , % * % % * v .
\#187 ; * V 1905 .
] Distribution of Chlorides in Nerve Cells and Fibres .
193 Plate 4 .
Fig. 17.\#151 ; From the sciatic of frog , showing the occurrence of chlorides in the imbrications of Lanterman .
x 590 .
Fig. 18.\#151 ; From the sciatic of frog , illustrating a distribution of chlorides in the S medullary sheath sometimes found .
Hg2(N03)2 \#151 ; , 30 minutes , ammonium sulphide , glycerine , x 590 .
Fig. 19.\#151 ; From the sciatic of frog , illustrating the occurrence of chlorides in the s imbrications of Lanterman and in the axon .
Hg2(N03)2 2 hours , ammonium sulphide , glycerine , x 70 .
Fig. 20.\#151 ; Portion of end of capillary tube filled with albumen .
AgN03 ^ + 1*5 per cent. HN03 .
The reagent lias diffused in the direction of the arrow , x 105 .
Fig. 21.\#151 ; Portion of another capillary tube similarly treated , x 105 .
Fig. 22.\#151 ; Portion of a capillary tube filled with albumen and treated as in the case of fig. 20 .
x 590 .
Fig. 23.\#151 ; Portion of a capillary tube filled with albumen , to which sodium chloride was added to bring the strength of the salt in solution up to P73 per cent. Treated as in the case of fig. 20 .
x 70 .
Fig. 24.\#151 ; Portion of a capillary tube filled with gelatine containing 0-288 per cent , of sodium chloride , illustrating irregularities in the distribution of the silver precipitate .
Treated as in the case of fig. 20 .
x 90 .
Figs. 25 and 26.\#151 ; Portions of capillary tubes filled with commercial gelatine and treated as in the case of fig. 20 , illustrating peculiarities in the precipitation of the silver chloride formed .
Fig. 25 x 590 , fig. 26 x 105 .

