1903 .
] Adaptation of the Pancreas to different Food-stuffs .
" On the Adaptation of the Pancreas to different Food-stuffs .
" Preliminary Communication .
By F. A. Bainbridge , M.B. , M.R.C.P. Communicated by Professor E. H. Starling , F.RS .
Received May 25 , \#151 ; Read May 28 , 1903 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) It has been found by Walther and other observers that the chemical composition of pancreatic juice varies in response to the stimulus of different food-stuffs ; a fatty diet , for example , led to the secretion of a larger amount of steapsin in the pancreatic juice than did a diet devoid of fat .
Further , Weinland showed that whereas the pancreatic juice of adult dogs normally contained no lactase , the juice of dogs fed for some days on milk contained lactase in large amount .
My experiments have been made in the hope of determining , firstly , whether the pancreas does adapt itself to different food-stuffs , and secondly , by what means this adaptation takes place .
Method.\#151 ; Milk was chosen as a convenient food , which could readily be added to or excluded from the diet ; and the enzyme studied was lactase , which converts lactose into galactose and dextrose .
Dogs were fed on milk , sometimes with the addition of pure lactose , for periods varying from 12\#151 ; 60 days .
Then the animals were anaesthetised with morphia and A.C.E. mixture , and the pancreatic juice obtained by means of secretin .
A certain quantity of pure lactose ivas weighed , and made up to a known volume .
Part of this was estimated at once by Pavy 's method ; to another part pancreatic juice was added , and the mixture incubated at 37 ' for 18\#151 ; 48 hours , chloroform or toluol being also added to prevent bacterial action ; a control experiment was also made .
The solution was then acidified with acetic acid , boiled for several minutes , filtered , made up to a known volume , and estimated by Pavy 's method .
In each experiment the same solution of Pavy 's fluid was employed for estimating the pure lactose , and the solution after incubation , so as to exclude any error due to varying strengths of the Pavy 's solution ; moreover , the conditions as regards the duration of the boiling of the sugar solutions during estimation , the rate at which the Pavy 's fluid was added , and other details were kept as far as possible constant in every experiment .
With these precautions , Pavy 's method was found to be extremely accurate , and it has the advantage that the reducing power of inverted lactose is very much larger than that of pure lactose .
Almost invariably 50 c.c. Pavy 's solution were titrated at each observation , and the sugar solutions used for the estimation had a concentration of about 0'5 per cent. 36 Mr. F. A. Bainbridge .
[ May 25 , The extracts of intestinal mucous membrane were made by scraping the gut after washing away all food debris ; the gut was ground up with sand , and extracted with chloroform-water , lactose solution , or tap-water .
The extracts were then filtered through muslin , and either injected at once , or kept in an ice-chest until they were required .
Results.\#151 ; The samples of lactose , galactose , and dextrose which I used , had the following reducing powers on Pavy 's solution , taking dextrose as 100 .
Pure lactose ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
52'0 Lactose inverted with hydrochloric acid ... 88*5 Pure dextrose ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
100'0 Pure galactose ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
87*4 The theoretical value of inverted lactose is therefore 9 3-7 , but I never succeeded in obtaining this figure by even prolonged boiling of lactose with acid .
I. The pancreatic juice was first examined in dogs kept for some days in the laboratory , and fed on biscuits only .
In such dogs no lactose was ever found .
The following protocol illustrates a typical experiment:\#151 ; Experiment I. Dog fed on biscuits only for 2 weeks\#151 ; The dog was anaesthetised with morphia and A.C.E. mixture , and pancreatic juice collected by means of secretin .
Pure lactose solution , strength 3 640 per cent. { a. ) 25 c.c. pure lactose solution , diluted to 200 c.c. and titrated .
10'2 c.c. = 50 c.c. Pavy 's solution .
( b. ) 25 c.c. lactose solution 'i 2 c.c. pancreatic juice \gt ; Incubated at 37 ' for 72 hours .
Few drops CHCI3 ... ... J Neutralised with acetic acid , boiled , filtered , and made up to 200 c.c. 10'4 c.c. = 50 c.c. Pavy 's solution .
II .
Bogs fed on milk.\#151 ; When dogs were fed on milk , to which lactose was added in some cases , their pancreatic juice invariably contained lactase , and an inversion of lactose , varying from 12\#151 ; 30 per cent. , occurred in different cases .
A table of the different experiments and a protocol of one of them illustrates this point:\#151 ; 1903 .
] Adaptation of the Pancreas to different Foodstuffs .
37 Table I.\#151 ; Figures representing the number of c.c. which reduced 50 c.c. Pavy 's solution .
Experiment , Pure Lactose .
Lactose + J vice ( Milk-fed dog ) .
Degree of Inversion .
C.c. C.c. Per cent. i 11 -1 10 -53 16*3 ii 14 5 12-6 31 -6 hi 8-6 7*8 22 *6 1Y 9*65 9-05 15 -0 Y 9 -4 8-8 15 -4 Experiment II.\#151 ; Dog fed on milk only for 26 days .
Anaesthetised with morphia and HC1 mixture ; pancreatic juice collected .
Pure lactose solution = 5*167 per cent. ( a. ) 20 c.c. pure lactose solution made up to 200 c.c. 9*4 c.c. = 50 c.c. Pavy 's solution ( b. ) 20 c.c. lactose solution 'i 5 c.c. pancreatic juice \gt ; Incubated at 37 ' for 24 hours .
Few drops CHC13 ... ... .J Neutralised , boiled several minutes , filtered , made up to 200 c.c. 8 '8c.c .
= 50 c.c. Pavy 's solution .
These experiments indicate that when dogs are fed on milk , the pancreas secretes a ferment\#151 ; lactase\#151 ; which is capable of inverting milk-sugar , although in dogs not fed on milk no such ferment is present in pancreatic juice .
It appears , therefore , that the pancreas does adapt itself to different food-stuffs by modifying the composition of its secretion , at any rate as regards the enzymes .
It is believed by Pawlow and others that this adaptation is carried out entirely by a nervous mechanism , and that a given food reflexly excites the pancreas to secrete a juice specially adapted for the digestion of that particular food-stuff .
The same view has been adopted by Weinland , as regards the lactase of the pancreas .
In the light of Professor Starling 's work on " Secretin , " however , it seemed much more probable that the adaptation was due to a chemical stimulus .
Since lactase is normally present in the intestinal mucous membrane of adult dogs and is increased in amount by a milk diet , it seemed possible that lactase entered the blood stream from the intestine and was picked out by the pancreas and secreted .
But the blood of a milk-fed dog was found to have no inverting action on lactose , nor did intravenous injections of extract of the mucous membrane of the intestines of biscuit-fed dogs cause any secretion of lactase in the Mr. F. A. Bainbridge .
[ May 25 , pancreatic juice .
Consequently , the lactase of the pancreas is not taken up as such from the blood , but must be formed by the pancreas itself .
Weinland 's observation that lactose injected subcutaneously did not cause the formation of lactase by the pancreas , led to the inference that the intestinal mucous membrane must be concerned in the production of lactase .
I therefore made secretin from a milk-fed dog and injected it into a biscuit-fed dog , but the pancreatic juice of the latter contained no lactase .
Then the intestinal mucous membrane of a biscuit-fed dog was ground up with sand and a strong solution of lactose .
After standing for some hours , the fluid was filtered off and injected into a second biscuit-fed dog .
Ordinary secretin was also injected and the pancreatic juice collected ; it contained no lactase .
The influence of lactase injected into the gut during life was then investigated .
A strong solution of lactose was injected into the intestine of a biscuit-fed dog , and after 1| hours , secretin was injected , and the pancreatic juice collected and examined ; no lactase was present .
The intestinal mucous membrane of this dog was extracted with sand and water , filtered and injected intravenously into a second dog ( also biscuit-fed ) .
After waiting 1J hours , the pancreatic juice was collected and examined ; slight inversion occurred , so that the pancreas had secreted some lactase .
Then the intestinal mucous membrane of a kitten fed only on milk was extracted and intravenously injected into a dog ; after two hours the pancreatic juice was collected and found to contain lactase , as the following figures show:\#151 ; Pure lactose ... ... ... ... ... ... .
A modification of this method was subcutaneously to inject into biscuit-fed dogs a CHCI3 water extract of intestinal mucous membrane of kittens or of milk-fed dogs .
Two injections were made on successive days , and on the third day the pancreatic juice was collected and examined .
In all these cases lactase was produced , as shown by the following table:\#151 ; Lactose and pancreatic juice of dog injected with extract of kitten 's gut ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Inversion of 22 per cent , of the lactose .
1903 .
] Adaptation of the Pancreas to different Foodstuffs .
39 Table II.\#151 ; Figures representing the number of c.c. which reduced 50 c.c. Pavy 's solution .
Experiment .
Pure Lactose .
Lactose + Juice .
Degree of Inversion .
C.c. C.c. Per cent. i 7-4 6-8 19 ii 7-8 7-5 9*3 hi 7 -05 6-75 10 IV 7 *95 7-65* 9 V 8-8 8-0 22 # Control , 8 *0 c.c. As far as they go , these experiments show that the intestinal mucous membrane of milk-fed animals , injected into dogs not fed on milk , causes the pancreas to secrete lactase , whereas lactose or extracts of mucous membrane injected separately have no such action .
In the present stage of this investigation no complete explanation of these results can be offered .
But it seems probable that as a result of the action of the intestinal mucous membrane on lactose , some chemical substance is formed , which passes by the blood-stream to the pancreas , where it stimulates the latter to manufacture a specific enzyme \#151 ; lactase .
REFERENCES .
Weinland , ' Zeitsclirift fur Biologie/ yol .
38 and 40 .
Walther , The Work of the Digestive Glands/ Pawlow and Thompson .
Bayliss and Starling , 'Journal of Physiology/ 1902 .

