Some farther Observations on the Current that often prevails to the Westward of the Scilly Islands .
By James Rennell , Esq. F.R.S. Read April 13 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 182 .
] In the course of twenty-one years that have elapsed since the author 's original communication on this subject was published in our Transactions , he has collected many new instances of the effects of the current , tending to confirm the general observations respecting its course from Cape Finisterre to Scilly , and affording clearer proof of the strength of the stream than any evidence that he could adduce on the former occasion .
The first fact relates to its commencement in an easterly direction , toward Cape Finisterre , from a distance of at least fifty-three leagues , in the instance of the Earl Cornwallis Indiaman , which drifted in that direction at the rate of twenty-six miles per day .
In the second instance , a bottle thrown out by a Danish navigator was carried in a direction E. by S. to Cape Ortegal , a distance of sixty-four leagues .
A third fact was communicated to the author by Admiral Knight , who found a current at the rate of one mile per hour , setting nearly along shore on the north coast of Spain .
With respect to the progress of the current which thus evidently sets along the southern side of the Bay of Biscay , the author has not been able to procure any further evidence directly showing its continuance round the Bay ; but he observes that the soundings evidently show that the mud of the Garonne , Charante , Loire , &amp;c. , on the west coast of France , is all carried to the northward ; and that the openings of these rivers evidently point in that direction in consequence of the current that sets across their mouths .
With regard to the further progress of the same current to the northward along the coast of France , direct evidence is again obtained in the instance of H. M. S. Russel , which was carried seventy miles to the N.W. by an unexpected current in that direction .
In addition to these facts , which are of comparatively recent occurrence , the author finds that the generally observed and wellknown flow of the tides on the west of Scilly , cannot well be .
accounted for but by the supposition of a current setting in from the southward , which causes the flood tide to run nine hours northward , while the ebb in the opposite direction lasts only three hours .
Major Rennell has also recourse for evidence to two publications which have but recently come to his knowledge , though printed so long since as 1733 and 1757 .
In Joshua Kelly 's Treatise on Navigation , of the former date , an instance is related of a West Indiaman drifted , during two days of dead calm , forty-six miles northward , .
across the mouth of the British Channel .
Captain Mead also , in relating the case of the ship Hope of Liverpool , in 1735 , mentions her having been drifted forty-eight miles to the northward of her expected course , by the same current which he represents as an indraught into St. George 's Channel ; and says it was well known to the Bristol men in making for their Channel , and that accordingly they made allowance in their bearing of 40 or 5 ?
for that indraught .
The author takes this occasion to notice another current , setting to the north-eastward across St. George 's Channel into Cardigan Bay , which sometimes endangers the safety of vessels in their passage from the Land 's End to Dublin .
This may partly arise from the tail of the Scilly current having an easterly set , in consequence of meeting the S.E. coast of Ireland ; but in the author 's estimation is more likely to originate from a cause similar to that of the Scilly current itself , in consequence of the south-westerly winds carrying a heavy sea along that coast from Cape Clear to Carnsore Point .

