285 On the Maturation of the Ovum in the Guinea-pig .
By J. E. Salyin Moore , A.R.C.S. , F.L.S. , Professor of Experimental and Pathological Cytology ; Liverpool , and Miss F. Tozer , B.Sc. London .
( From the Cytological Department of the University of Liverpool .
) ( Communicated by J. Bretland Farmer , F.R.S. Received January 14 , \#151 ; Read February 27 , 1908 .
) [ Plates 5\#151 ; 7 .
] The following observations on the maturation of the ovum in the Guinea-pig are related to a more extended investigation .
Certain results which we have already obtained while investigating the development of the eggs of the Guinea-pig are , however , of interest , and we think it desirable to give a brief account of them.* In the earlier stages of the development of the eggs within the ovary they appear as cells which present within their nuclei the characteristic synaptic contraction of the nuclear thread-work .
Occasionally , during such stages , the centrosomes are clearly visible within a definite archoplasm .
As the eggs increase in size the centrosomes appear to migrate from the interior of the archoplasm into the cytoplasm this migration corresponding to the migration of the centrosomes in similar stages in the development of spermatozoa .
At a later period in the development , both archoplasm and centrosomes in the eggs disappear altogether .
The development of the egg is nearly complete within the ovary .
That is to say , the two maturation spindles corresponding to the maturation spindles in the production of the spermatozoa are found while the eggs are enclosed in the follicle and are still retained in the ovary .
When the eggs have reached the large size represented in Plate 5,1 , the final stages in the evolution of a coarse spirem , corresponding to the coarse spirem of the spermatogenesis , are reached , and in the succeeding phase there occurs the usual development of gemini within the nucleus .
In a large number of the eggs the gemini appear to result from the pairing of the number of chromosomes usually found in somatic cells ; but it is very important to note that in many of the eggs with which we have had to deal the number of the aggregates of chromatin is largely in excess of what it ought to be , supposing these bodies * A detailed account of the early development of the egg in mammals is given by Winiwarter ( " Recherches sir l'Ovogendse et P(Jrganogene.se de l'Ovaire des Maminifures ( Lapin et Homme ) , " par le Dr. Hans von Winiwarter , 'Archives de Biologie , ' vol. 17 , 1900 ) .
An account of the fertilisation and segmentation of the eggs of the Mouse is contained in a paper by Sobotta in the 'Arch .
f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' vol. 45 , 1895 .
Prof. J. E. Salvin Moore and Miss F. Tozer .
[ Jan. 14 , normally occur in half the number of the somatic chromosomes .
When the eggs have reached the above condition , the first polar body spindle is formed in the manner represented in fig. 2 .
There are no centrosomes , and several of the characteristic forms of the gemini correspond to the forms seen in the similar stages of spermatogenesis .
The division of the gemini takes place in the same manner as that occurring during spermatogenesis and the diaster of such a division is represented in fig. 3 .
When the first polar body has been definitely extruded , as in fig. 4 , the nucleus which remains in the egg immediately proceeds towards another division ; the chromosomes appearing on this spindle ( the second maturation spindle ) being in the form of rods or diads , such as those represented in fig. 6 .
Here , again , as in the case of the first polar body spindle , we have found in some cases that the number of chromosomes appearing is greater than half the somatic number .
In the second polar body spindle , as in the first , there are no centrosomes .
At the time the second polar body is being produced , it is often possible to observe a division of the nucleus of the first polar body also taking place , and the final result is the production of four nuclei , one remaining in the egg , two derived from the first polar body , and one belonging to the second polar body .
W e are at present inclined to interpret the high number of gemini and chromosomes appearing during the first and second polar body divisions as possibly due to the fact that in the first polar body division the synaptic chromosomes have not all united in pairs to form gemini before the division ensues ; whilst during the second polar body division the number perhaps appears to be high , owing to the fact that when the rods and diads are produced they often become prematurely divided , so that , in the act of counting , halves may be reckoned as whole individual chromosomes .
In a certain number of eggs a very interesting process can be observed resulting in the parthenogenetic segmentation of the eggs , and the process may extend to the production of 12 or 15 irregular blastomeres ; it then comes to an end , the eggs apparently degenerating .
The spindles found in these dividing eggs are typically somatic in appearance .
This process is probably the same as that described and figured by J. Janosik in his account of the " Atrophy of the Follicles of the Guinea-pig , " * but it is necessary to draw attention to the fact that Janosik may possibly have missed the point upon which we lay stress .
Fie has failed to separate the process resulting in the production of polar bodies from that ending in irregular segmentation and degeneration of the egg cell , and he apparently considers the stage showing a polar body and the spindle , for the * " Die Atrophie der Follikel und ein seltsames Verlialten der JEizelle , " 'Arch .
f. Mikr .
Anat .
' vol. 48,1897 .
Moore and Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B 80 , Plate 5 .
Moore and Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. 80 , Plate 6 .
4 .
Moore and .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. 80 , Plate 7 .
1908 .
] On the Maturation of the Ovum in the .
287 production of the second polar body ( which he figures ) , to be merely the first segmentation of an egg which has entered upon a process of degeneration and the follicle of which is about to atrophy .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Plate 5 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Ovum of Guinea-pig .
The nucleus in a late stage of synapsis .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Ovum of Guinea-pig , showing the spindle ( first polar body or heterotype spindle ) .
Plate 6 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Ovum of Guinea-pig .
The nucleus is in the diaster of the meiotic division ( i.e. , the formation of the first polar body ) .
The intermediate bodies of Flemming are also seen on the fibres at the equator of the spindle .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Ovum of Guinea-pig , showing the post-meiotic spindle ( polar view ) and the first polar body .
The latter is itself in division .
Plate 7 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Ovum of the Guinea-pig , showing diaster of meiotic spindle .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Ovum of Guinea-pig , showing the post-meiotic spindle , or second polar body spindle .
The first polar body hsis divided and its two daughter elements are together on the upper margin of the cell .

