336 Vapour-pressure and Osmotic Pressure of a Volatile Solute .
others it is the enhanced lines which may be expected to show the most important coincidences .
6 .
The flutings which occur in the arc and arc-flame do not appear when the arc is passed in an atmosphere of hydrogen .
As suggested by Thalen , they are probably due to oxide of scandium .
Tables are given.which show the lines of the arc spectrum from 3930 to 6580 , the positions of the oxide flutings , and comparisons of the principal lines of the two classes with the sun , sun-spots , and chromosphere .
On the Vapour-pressure and Osmotic Pressure of a Volatile Solute .
By H. L. Callendar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics at the Imperial College of Science and Technology .
( Received June 17 , \#151 ; Read June 25 , 1908 .
) It follows by a method given in a recent pape* by the author that if the osmotic membrane be assumed to be impermeable to the solute , the formula for the change of vapour-pressure of a volatile solute with hydrostatic pressure , and also the formula for the osmotic pressure which is deduced from it , must be the same as the formula for a non-volatile solute , and should not contain any terms depending on the vapour-pressure of the solute , except in so far as it may affect the hydrostatic pressure of the solution .
If , on the other hand , an osmotic membrane is regarded as a vapour-sieve , permeable to the vapour of the solution but not to the liquid phase , the equation takes a different form , depending on the concentration of the constituents in the vapour-phase .
If ch c2 , etc. , be the concentrations of the constituents in grammes per gramme of the vapour , and if Ui , U2 , etc. , be the specific volumes of the constituents in the solution , the change of total vapour-pressure dp of the solution for a change of hydrostatic pressure dT is given by the relation , 2cU dV = v dp , where v is the specific volume of the whole vapour-phase .
If only one constituent is volatile , this relation reduces to the form U rfP = v dp for that constituent .

