324 Dr. A. M. Marshall on the Olfactory Nerve [ Feb. 13 .
and whenever there is union not very firm , and may also modify some of our opinions on atomic weights and the motion of gases .
Of course , I cannot pretend to give the result of these results ; but as we have here the building up of a molecule by volumes , so as to form an equivalent of physical combination analogous to the chemical equivalent , it is impossible to avoid seeing that it indicates the possibility of our present equivalents being made up in a similar manner .
I did not expect these numbers ; but I certainly , as my previous paper showed , had in full view a necessity for some connexion between physical and chemical phenomena more decided than we possessed .
February 13 , 1879 .
W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair , j The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Note on the Development of the Olfactory Nerve and Olfactory Organ of Vertebrates .
" By A. Milnes Marshall , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by W. S. Savory , F.R.S. , Surgeon to and Lecturer on Surgery at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Received January 30 , 1879 .
In the course of an investigation into the development of the cranial nerves of the chick , certain facts came to light indicating that the olfactory nerve , instead of being , as usually described , a structure differing totally in its mode of origin from all the other nerves in the body , in reality " exactly corresponds in mode of development and in appearance with the other cranial nerves , and with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves."* The present paper contains the results of further investigations on this point ; it deals also with some features in the development of the vertebrate olfactory organ , and with certain questions of a more general nature affected by the conclusions arrived at .
* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvi , p. 50 , and " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science , " January , 1878 , pp. 17-23 .
879 .
] 3*25 and Olfactory Organ of Vertebrates .
The Development of the Olfactory Nerve .
For the sake of clearness the more important conclusions are stated n the form of propositions :\#151 ; a. The olfactory nerves do not arise from the cerebral , but 'rom the single unpaired forebrain .
In chick embryos of about the fiftieth hour , or a little older , the olfactory nerves can be clearly recognized arising from the upper part of the sides of the forebrain .
At this stage there is no trace whatever of the cerebral hemispheres .
The olfactory nerves then come into existence before the cerebral hemispheres , and therefore cannot be derived from them .
The hemispheres are developed in the chick as lateral outgrowths from the upper part of the forebrain ; at first the olfactory nerves have no connexion with them , beyond that of close proximity ; but very soon the hemispheres , by their rapid growth forwards , drive the nerves down to the base of the brain , and so make the nerves appear to arise from their under and anterior part .
This account is confirmed in all points by observations on duck embryos , which show clearly that the connexion of the olfactory nerves with the cerebral hemispheres is not of a primary but of a secondary or adaptative nature .
* In the dogfish ( Scyllium ) the forebrain is , as has been already shown by Balfour , * single and unpaired up to stage 0 , presenting till then no trace whatever of a division into cerebral hemispheres : the olfactory nerves are , however , well developed structures by stage M ; at which period they can be seen , in transverse sections through the anterior part of the head , arising from the upper part of the sides of the forebrain and running downwards to the olfactory pits , The nerves can be recognized , though with less distinctness , at still earlier stages .
The olfactory nerves of the salmon and of the trout can , in a similar manner , be identified before the cerebral hemispheres lia\ e come into existence ; and the same statement applies to the axolotl .
b. There is no trace of an olfactory lobe in the early stages of development of the olfactory nerve .
Since the olfactory lobes are commonly described as " hollow outgrowths of the cerebral hemispheres , " and the olfactory nerves have just been shown to arise quite independently of the cerebral hemispheres , this second proposition is in reality already proved by the first .
However , as the existence of olfactory lobes has been supposed to separate the olfactory from the other cranial nerves , it becomes necessary to investigate carefully the time and conditions of theii appearance .
In the chick the olfactory nerve is in its early stages solid , and * " Elasmobranch Fishes , " p. 178 .
326 Dr. A. M. Marshall on the Olfactory Nerve [ Feb. 13 , from a histological point of view differs in no appreciable respect from the other cranial nerves at corresponding stages of their develop , ment .
At the end of the sixth day of incnbation the nerve , which h now of some length , has acquired its secondary connexion with the cerebral hemisphere in the manner described above ; yet the nerve is still solid along its whole length , and presents no trace whatever oi an olfactory lobe , or hollow outgrowth from the brain .
By the end of the seventh day a very small conical pit is visible in the wall of the cerebral hemisphere at the point of origin of the olfactory nerve .
This pit , which is the earliest rudiment of the olfactory lobe , is formed almost entirely at the expense of the inner wall of the hemisphere , so that there is hardly any corresponding projection on the outside of the brain .
The development of the olfactory lobe in the dogfish closely resembles that in the chick : at stage M there is no trace whatever of a lobe , though the olfactory nerves are large and conspicuous structures .
At a stage a little younger than Balfour 's stage O , the first rudiment of an olfactory lobe appears , as a slight lateral bulging of the side of the forebrain , at the point of origin of the olfactory nerve : this increases rapidly , much more so indeed than the nerve itself ; by stage O it is a tolerably prominent structure , and in the later stages it becomes considerably larger than the nerve proper.* Stage O in the development of a dogfish embryo corresponds to about the sixth day in the chick , so that there is a close agreement in time as well as in mode of development of the olfactory lobe in these two types .
In the dogfish , however , the olfactory lobes appear before the cerebral hemispheres are differentiated , and consequently arise from the forebrain ; while in the chick the hemispheres are developed rather earlier , and the olfactory lobes arise as direct outgrowths from them , and not from the original forebrain .
In the salmon and trout , from the earliest period at which the existence of an olfactory nerve can be recognized up to the time of hatching , and indeed for some little time afterwards , there is no trace of an olfactory lobe .
The existence of an olfactory nerve without any trace of an olfactory lobe has also been established in the earlier embryonic stages of the axolotl , of the common frog , and of the green lizard .
The olfactory nerve of an adult vertebrate is commonly described as consisting of three parts , a proximal element or olfactory tract , an intermediate olfactory bulk , and a distal olfactory nerve proper , the two former of these corresponding to the olfactory lobe or vesicle of the embryo .
From the descriptions given above it would appear that the * Cf .
Balfour , op .
cit. , p. 178 , and Plate 15 , figs. 2 and 8a .
Balfour has not observed the olfactory nerves earlier than stage O , and therefore describes them as ?
outgrowths from the olfactory lobes .
and Olfactory Organ of Vertebrates .
879 .
] tiird of these elements\#151 ; the olfactory nerve proper\#151 ; is the earliest 3 he developed , and that the olfactory tract and bulb , when present t all , do not appear till an exceedingly late period of development-period so late indeed that their ultimate presence affords no ground whatever for separating the olfactory from the other cranial nerves .
c. The olfactory nerve is a primary nerve , comparable to the segmental ranial nerves .
Certain of the cranial nerves , e.g. , the facial and glossopharyngeal , tave long been recognized as possessing segmental value .
These seg-nental nerves in the early stages of their development possess certain Characters in common , which serve to distinguish them sharply from Jhor nerves or branches of nerves ; of these characters the following ire the most important:\#151 ; ( 1 ) They appear very early ; ( 2 ) they arise at least in the chick ) from the neural ridge on the mid-dorsal surface if the brain ; ( 3 ) shortly after their appearance their roots undergo a shifting downward of their points of attachment , so that they no longer irise from the dorsal surface , but from the sides of the brain ; ( 4 ) they present , at least in their early stages , ganglionic enlargements on , or slose to , their roots of origin ; ( 5 ) their course is at right angles to the longitudinal axis of the head ; ( 6 ) and , finally , they have very definite relations to the segments as indicated by the visceral clefts , each nerve supplying the two sides of a cleft .
In all these points the olfactory nerve agrees very closely with the segmental nerves :\#151 ; ( 1 ) It appears very early in all the types examined , and in the chick it seems to be one of the very first nerves in the body to be developed ; ( 2 ) there is also strong reason for thinking that , in the chick , the olfactory nerve is developed from the neural ridge ; * ( 3 ) its point of attachment to the brain undergoes a shifting of precisely similar nature to that presented by the segmental nerves ; ( 4 ) its direction is at right angles to the longitudinal axis of the head , so that were the cranial flexure to be corrected , and the head straightened out , the course of the olfactory nerve would be parallel to that of the segmental nerves ; ( 5 ) it possesses a ganglionic enlargement at its point of origin from the brain ; ( 6 ) and , finally , an attempt will be made in the second part of this paper to show that it supplies the two sides of a visceral cleft .
Since , then , the olfactory nerves do not differ embryologically in any material respect from the segmental cranial nerves , they must be regarded as the first or most anterior pair of true segmental cranial nerves .
tfcT m The Development of the Olfactory Organ .
This will , in the absence of figures , be treated very briefly ; those * For a discussion of this point , vide " Quart .
Journ. Micro .
Science , " January , 1878 , pp. 18 .
19 .
328 On the Olfactory Nerve , of Vertebrates .
[ Feb. 1 , points only being noticed which are of special interest in connexic with the conclusions arrived at in the preceding part of the paper .
The olfactory pits appear at almost the same time as the viscer clefts ; or , to speak more accurately , they first become conspicuov , objects at , or very shortly after , the time when the anterior viscer : clefts become open to the exterior .
This occurs about stage K in tl dogfish , and about the fiftieth hour in the chick .
In their early stages the olfactory pits present a striking resen blance to the visceral clefts in position , shape , size , and general rel ; tions ; their external apertures elongate and become slit-like , and th direction of the slit , like that of the visceral clefts , is at right angle to the longitudinal axis of the head .
These facts are best illustrate by the study of whole embryos , and of longitudinal vertical sections .
They come out with great clearness in all the types of vertebrate examined , but with especial distinctness in the axolotl and salmon .
The development of the Schneiderian folds presents several poini of great interest , which can be most favourably studied in the Elasme branchs .
Attention has already been directed by Balfourf to the ver early appearance of these folds .
The important point , so far as th present question is concerned , is that these Schneiderian folds appear a the same time as , or very shortly after , the first rudiments of the gill ?
In addition to this identity in time , there is also identity in structure in both cases development consists in the formation of a series of equa closely apposed folds , mainly epithelial , but involving the underlyin ; mesoblast to a certain extent .
These folds are in the two cases\#151 ; gill and Schneiderian folds\#151 ; of the same width , the same distance aparl have epithelium of the same thickness and same histological charactei involve the mesoblast to exactly the same extent , and in exactly th same manner ; in a word , are structurally identical .
In the later stages the Schneiderian folds , like the gills , receive i very abundant supply of blood-vessels ; and the relations of thesi vessels to the folds , which are very peculiar and characteristic , an identical in the two cases .
Even in the adu.lt Elasmobranch there is : remarkable histological resemblance between the gills and the nose .
The facts above recorded concerning the development of the olfactory nerve and olfactory organ point towards the same conclusions as tc morphology of these structures , viz. , that the olfactory organ is the visceral cleft ; that the olfactory nerve is the segmental nerve supplying that cleft in a manner precisely similar to that in which the hinder * * For figures of whole embryos illustrating the points referred to , vide Parker , " On the Structure and Development of the Skull in Sharks and Skates , " " Trans. Zool. Soc. , " vol. x , part iv , 1878 , PI .
25 , fig. 1 ; PI .
39 , figs. 1 and 2 ; PI .
40 , fig. 15 and Balfour , op .
cit. , PI .
7 , Stage L. f Op.cit .
, p. 184 , and PI .
44 .
fig. 14\gt ; 79 .
] On the Skull and its Nerves the Green Turtle .
329 ^fts are supplied by their respective nerves ; and that the Schneiderian Ids are gills.* These conclusions , if accepted , will considerably simplify our con-ption of the segmentation of the vertebrate head .
As there are no \gt ; rves or clefts in front of the olfactory segment , the olfactory nerve ust be taken as the most anterior nerve , and the nose as the most iterior cleft .
The next cleft is that in front of the maxillo-palatine .
rch , of which a part probably persists in the adult as the lachrymal act : the segmental nerve corresponding to this cleft is the , or culomotor nerve .
Next comes the mouth cleft , supplied by the fifth , r trigeminal , nerve ; and then in succession the clefts supplied by the iciaC glossopharyngeal , and pneumogastric nerves .
This view of the t ; : onstitution of the vertebrate head is found to accord well with the '* ater researches of Professor Parker on the morphology of the skeletal dements of the head .
Some at least of the labial cartilages will probably prove , on this Er / iew , to be homologues of the extrabranchials , a comparison that has t\#171 ; already been made by Professor Parker.t If the olfactory organs are visceral clefts , they must originally have m communicated with the mouth cavity .
Indications of a former con-tb nexion of this kind are by no means wanting ; thus in salmon embryos the alimentary canal extends forwards , so as to underlie the nasal sacs : as development proceeds , this anterior prolongation of the mouth b cavity gradually shrinks ; it persists for a short time as a pair of csecal diverticula , which ultimately disappear altogether .
In conclusion , it may be noted that the Schneiderian folds afford an instance , on the theory here maintained , of structures originally hypo-blastic in nature becoming , from changed circumstances , epiblastic .
\amp ; hi .
II .
\#171 ; On the Development of the Skull and its Nerves in the Green Turtle ( Chelone mida ) , with Remarks on the Segmentation seen in the Skull of various types .
l\gt ; y Pio-fessor W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received February 3 , 1879 .
)1P~ | \#166 ; In the first paper on the development of the skull of the Vertebrata , published in " Phil. Trans. , " I figured and described certain modifications of the skull in the embryos of the African ostrich , which have only received their explanation lately , and this has become possible through what I see in the embryos of the green turtle .
For these embryos I am indebted to two of our fellows , namely , * * Cf .
Dolirn , " Ursprung der Wirbeltliiere , " p. 23 .
t " Proc. Zool. Soc. , " vol. x , part iv , 1878 , p. 212 .

