Observations sir la De'composition de l'Amidon a la la emperature Atmospherique par l'Action de l'Air et de I'Eau .
Par Theodore de Saussure , Professeur de Mineralogie dans l'Academie de Geneve , Correspondant de l'Institut Royal de France , 8fc .
Communicated by Alexander Marcet , M.D. F.R.S. Read December 17 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1819 , p. 29 .
] After some general observations on the changes which starch undergoes during the process of germination , and also when acted on by dilute sulphuric acid , in the manner contrived by M. Kirchoff , the author proceeds to show that starch alone , boiled in water and left to itself , forms , at the end of a certain time , a considerable portion of sugar , which is crystallizable , and much resembling that of M. KirchofF .
This change takes place at a temperature between 68 ?
and 770 of Fahrenheit , with or without access of air .
There is also produced , at the same time , a gum possessed of properties analogous to that procured by roasting starch , and a peculiar substance which M. de Saussure calls Amidine .
There is also formed a body , insoluble in water and in most acids , but which agrees with starch in forming a blue compound with iodine .
When the air has free access in these experiments , water is abundantly formed , carbonic acid is evolved , and a portion of charcoal is deposited .
When the solid contents of this solution are examined , they are found greatly inferior in weight to that of the original starch .
The loss is referred principally to the formation of water , and only in small part to the carbon carried off in the form of carbonic acid .
When air is excluded , no water is produced .
A little carbonic acid and nearly pure hydrogen are evolved , and no carbonaceous deposit ensues .
Whether the presence or absence of air influences the production of sugar , the author has not been able to determine .
TI'he particular characters of the gum amidine , and other products of the fermentation of starch , are described at length in notes annlexed to this paper ; in one of which the author remarks , that the fixation of the elements of water , in the treatment of animal and vegetable substances by the common principles of the laboratory , occurs more friequently than is generally believed ; and shows , by a comparative analysis of hog 's lard in its recent state and after saponification , that the new properties which oils and fats acquire by saponification , is chiefly referable to the fixation of the elements of water .

