]\gt ; of the Least Gases of Atmosphcric Air , .
389 Effects nzaconine .
Iethylbenzaconine is from three to four times more toxic towards rabbits and guinea-pigs than benzaconine , and from twice to thrice as toxic towards .
and R. In mammals , slight saliva- tion , retching movements , and muscular tremor are characteristic effects of the former , but dyspnoea , ataxia , and paresis are also seen after benzaconine .
Of the two , methylbenzaconine is distinctly less depressant towards the heart .
Slowing of the pulse and want of sequence of upon auricular action occurs after both , but is a much earlier symptom after benzaconine , which causes more disorder in the motor mechamsm .
On the other hand , the intracardiac vagus is put out of metion more readily by methylbenzaconine .
Death after either poison is rarely preceded by spasm .
Neither of the two compounds cause any local ritation in , but methylbenzaconine produces active fibrillation in the muscles , to which it gains ccess and develops a complete curare-like action much more prominently than does benzaconine , the heart continning to beat strongly .
.Benzaconine , in dose sufficient to cause such an effect at the periphery , acts disastrously npon the circulation .
In poisoning by methylbenzaconine the characteristic rapid failure of the scnlar motor nerves on stimulation is marked , but the subsecluent recovery on resting , so characteristic of benzaconine , has not been observed .
" " On the Separation of the Least Volatile of Atmospheric Air , and their Spectra By G. D. LIVING , M.A. , Sc. D. , , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Cam , and JAMES DEWAB , M.A. , .D .
, F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor in the University of , Fnllerian fessor of Chemistry , oyal Institution , London .
eceived June 15 , \mdash ; Pead June 20 , 1901 .
Our last communication to the Societv related to the most volatile of the atmospheric gases , that which we now beg leave to offer reIates to the least voIatile of those gases .
The former were obtained from their solution in liquid air by fractional distillation at low pressure , and separation of the condensible part of the distillate by cooling it liquid hydrogen .
The latter were , in the first instance , obtained from the residue of liquid , after the distillation of the first fraction , by allowing it to evaporate gradnally at a temperature rising only very slowly .
The diagram , fig. 1 , will make the former process intelligible. .
* ' Boy .
Soc. Proc vol. 67 , p. 407 .
Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
On the represents a vacuum-jacketed vessel , partly filled with liquid air , in which a second vessel , , was immersed .
From the bottom of tube , , passed up through the rubber cork which closed , and from the top of a second tube , , passed through the cork and on to the rest of the apparatus .
Each of these tubes had a stopcock , and and the end of tube open to the air .
A wider tubs also passed through the cork of and led to an air-pump , whereby the FIG. 1 .
above the liquid air io reduced , and the of the liquid reduced by the consequent cvaporation .
To keep the vessel , , covered with liquid , a fourth tube , , passed the oork , and its lower end , furnished with a valve , , which could opened and closed by the handle , dipped into liquid air contained in the .
As the pressule ) the liquid iu A less that of the atmosphere , on opening the some of the liquid was forced through into A ) the prcssure of the atmosphere , in this way the level of liquid in maintained at the Since was maintained at the temperature of liquid air at reduced pressure the air it contained condensed on its sides , and t'ne stopcock was closed and ?
opened , more air ssed in the opon end of , and in turn condensed .
In this could be filled complctely with liquid , the whole of the most the gases eing retained in solution in the liquid .
The , passing from the top of con1lected with a threeof th of Atmosphcric Air , stop-cock , by hich c could be put in communication the closed vessel , , or with the tube ) which also and could be connected .
The tnbe ) assed d nearly to the bottom of the vttcuum jacketed , and out again the cork ; and on to , and a rking tube to a merctlry pnmp The soopcock still cIosed , the whole of the apparatus between the pnmp , the , was exhausted , and liquid lced into .
The cock was then tnrned so to colncct ) , and close , and then / opened .
was thereby in comm/ lnic{tion hich was at a still lower tttlre than ) , the solved in the liquid in , along with some of the most volatile of that liquid , distilled over , and the tter condensed in solid form in lVhen a small fraction of the liquid in 1 ?
thns distilled , the stop-cock turned so as to close the tion 1 , and open that between from ) passed into the cuons t ) , but in so it had to thro the portion of } immersed in liquid hydrogen , so that condensible matter carried vard by the stream of gas was frozen out .
For separating the least volatile part of the , the vessel , with its contents , dispensed , and the tube made to commnnicats directly with that connected with the gauge , sparking , and generally several sparking tubes were interposed between the and pnmp , so that they could be sealed off successively .
The of the liquid in consisted of nitrogen and oxygen .
These were to porate , the temperature of being still kept so to chcck tho tion of the less the than oxygen .
) ) of the nitrogen -ygen thus removed , the stopcock closed , the tubes rtially cx- usted b the ssed t and the gases examined Iorc gas the oscopic etion l from time to tinlc .
The lencc of spect , omitting those of , hydrogen , of , which were never cntircly the of tion n follows : The spcctrnm of first rloticed , hcIl the proceeded the crhtest r of krypton then the of the lrgon s ) it to of yptOll nntil , as , tvhcIl Leydcn in of the colotlT , the 11 idc ) ) fright .
lVithout the hitc .
in the ) thd ycllo ) polcs .
As the , the teml ) of the vcssel the of eing to , the rightest oxyIII .
to mely , the Profs .
G. D. and J. Dewar .
On the about 5420 , 5292 , and 4922 , and then the krypton rays soon died ou and were superseded by the xenon rays .
At this stage the capillary part of the sparking tube is , with a jar in circuit , a brilliant green and is still green , though less brilliant , without the jar .
The xenon formed the final fraction distilled .
Subsequently an improved form of apparatus was used for the fractionation .
It is represented in fig. 2 .
A gasholder the FIG. 2 .
gases to be separated , that is to say , the least volatile part of atmospheric air , was connected with bhe apparatus by the furnished with a stopcock .
This tube passed on to the ) ) hich in turn communicated through the tube and stopcock a rking tube , and so on through the tube , with a mercurial pump .
Stopcock being closed and opened , gas from the holder was allowed to pass into , maintained at low temperature , and there condensed in the solid form .
Stopcock was then cIosed and opened , and gas from allowed to pass into the exhausted tubes between L ' the The partly immersed in liquid air in order to co1ldellse vapour of mercury , which ] otherwise pass from the pump into the sparking tube .
The passing into the tube old , of course , a prcssure corresponding to the temperature of 1 and this was furthcr ensnred by the connecting ) pass the liquid in which immcrsed .
The success of the tion of ( all the JSCS which occur hich ) tierent Sprengcl pump iu figulc is siml ) of the Gascs Air , .
393 temperatures depends on keeping the temperatnre of as low as possible , as will be seen from the .
consideration:\mdash ; The presstlre \ldquo ; of a gas , above the same material in the liquid state , at temperature , is given ( approximately ) by the formula whereA and 1 ) are constants for the same terial .
For some other gas the ] be and for argon , krypton , xe1lon respectively the values of are ctnd thoss , and ; so for these ) ces and many others is always a small quantity , while is considerable and increases as diminishes .
Hence the ratio of to increases rapidly as diminishes , and by aporating the gases always from the solid state and keeping the solid as low temperature as possible , the gas first removal ) the vest p consists in by far the greatest part of that which the lowest ) oiling point , which ] in case is , and is succeederl , comparative abruptness , by the gas which has the next higher boiling point .
By this method the nitrogen and oxygen are emoved without the necessity of sparking or bsorption .
The change from one to another is sily detected by examining the spectrum in the sparking ) , and the reservoirs into which the pumped nged when the spectrum , and the fractions tely stored .
several tking t are interposed in such to form tions between the tubes , any otle of them call be off at desired stage of the ctiorlation .
The tion of the spect1 of ) krypton with tion the cter of the electric discharge is very st iking , itnd the jcct of , in the of kl.ypton , by krypton with gotl in its sensitiveness to in the eleetric dischargc .
yptot ithout n those oIlly -ith ( Iis .
The dilf.ercnce in tensity of ils uous tory , with 1 exceptions , which intcusified the oscillatory } ) Profs .
G. D. and J. Dewar .
On dlscharge when the slit of the spectroscope is wide .
Rung used a grating , we have , for the sake of more light , used a prism spectroscope throughout , and were therefore able to observe many more rays he .
There is one very remarkable change in the xenon spectrum produced by the introduction of a jar into the circtlit .
]yithout the jar xenon gives two green at about 4917 and 4924 , ) on putting a jar into the circuit they are replaced by a single still stronger ray about 4922.* In no other case have we noticed a change so striking as this on mercly changing the character of the ischarge .
Changes of the spectrum by the introduction of a jar into the are , however , the rude rather than the exception , and there are changes the spectrum of krypton which seem to depend on other circumstatlees .
In the conrse of our examination of many tubes filled with krypton in the tnner above indicated , we found some of them to give with no jar the green ray A 5571 , the yellow ray , ixnd the red ray 7600 very bright , while other rays .
are very , and those few arely visible .
Putting a jar into the clrcuit makes very little difference ; the three rays above mefitioned much the brightest , nearly , though not quite , so bright as before , and the blne rays , so conspicuous in other tubes , though strengthened ] ) the use .
of the jar , are still weak .
In other tubes the extrcme red ray invisible , the rays at 5571 and bsolutely , as well as relatively , muoh feebler , while the strong blue rays are evcIl b than the green and yellow bove named .
In one tube the blue rays could be seen , though not the others .
This looks very as if diiierent were involved , but we have not been able to ass ' selves of that .
The case seems early with that of hydrogen .
There are some hydrogen xbes which show the socond spcctr of hydrogell very bright , thd others hich show only first ectrum the sccond spectrum is or cxtingnished ) ylntroduclug a into the circuit , while the first is strcngthened ; ( the conditions which determine the llce of tho iolet series of hydrogen yet ) ctorily m It is to loted th pntting th ] out of cnit docs not reducc the ) of which ] engthcned ] ) ] is , more less , ) the ot the this fcts less chcs its .
Nhc ( .ened , on the hot , } ) cooled , if of of Lcast Volatilj Gascs of At Air , the be continued withont a jar , the resistance in the krypton rather rapidly , the tube becomes much less luminous and finally refuses to pass the spark .
}yith an oscillatory discharge the of the spal k and the brightness of the rays arc much more persistent .
This scems to point to some action at the electrodes , lvhich is more marked in the of krypton than in that of xonon .
The of the xenon in the ) } mined , in he part of the spcctrnm , with a spoctrothroe hite H prisms of 60 , by reference to the sp spectrnm of iron , except in the cases of the extreme red of kryl)toll , which red to the of its , n-hich ) did not .
The in , Yiolct , were in 1$ ith .
prisms of GO ' each .
The spectrum of the on at the time as that of the tnbe , the dmitted tough o of the slic , and the latter the other The xcnon spcctrum is ract i gronp of four conspicuous of equal iutetlsities , a of Yery bright green of which are especially conspicnous , and very .
The only list of xenon seen is that rdnlann , with)hich our list does not present any close cept ns to the ongest green lines .
The nnml ) of we is very considerable , and some of them lie very to of the second spectrnm of hydrogen , ) smuch as these are more conspicuous with a jar in cirouit than v.ithout , which is not the racter of the second spectrtlm of hydrogen , aIJd , moreover , of the ) rightest of the drogcn 1 are ) sent from the pectrnm of the ) these are not due hydrogorl .
rays , which we ) thated stely , ve as yet ) scrved in only one : they very -violct of igin , cithcr duc to some other eIlOll , or to some condition of the tube hich not eitted in the other ) Our krJTton itys agrco more closely with list , his ery mighl ) expected when prisms used of isms , of nnot compete ith gtings in the of -lcngth tions .
think the krypton llsed } must OIlt ined some the for hich he gives the -lcngths 529337 , were due to , as thrcc1 of the strongest emitted our xenon ) , and in , tltl in some the s of our ypton t ) to .
Lennox , to hose skiil tion we Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
On Tables of the upproxinmte Xenon and Krypton Rays observed only with a Leyden jar in circuit have an prefixed , those observed only when no Leyden jar was in circuit have a prefixed .
The intensities indicated are approximately those of the rays when a jar is in circuit , except in the case of the two rays to which a is prefixed , which are not seen when a jar is in circuit .
Rays which are equally intense whether a jar is in circuit or not have a prefixed to the number indicating their intensities ; those which are less intense with a jar than without havs a prefixed to the number expressing their intensities .
The rest are , in general , decidedly more intense with a jar than without .
Xenon Rays .
nittey .
Separ( } of the Gasof Athric Air , .
397 Xenon -lengths of rays of oligin observed in the spectrum of one ) enon ) oot in the spectrum of other tubes : \mdash ; 398 ration of of Air , aec .
Krypton Bays .
is { tlkcn from Rungc 's nuplber for th fhc

