1894 .
] Results with Prismatic Camera during Eclipse of Sun .
7 II .
" Preliminary Report on the Results obtained with the Prismatic Camera during the Total Eclipse of the Sun , April 16 , 1893/ ' By J. Norman Lockyer , C.B. , F.R.S. Received February 22 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) Daring the total eclipse of 1871 observations were made by Respighi and the author with a spectroscope deprived of its collimator , and a series of rings was seen corresponding to the different rays emitted by the corona and prominences .
A similar instrument , arranged for photography , was employed during several succeeding eclipses , but the photographs were on so small a scale that none of the results came up to the expectations raised by the observations of 1871 .
As the Solar Physics Committee is now in possession of a prismatic camera of 6 inches aperture , the prism having a refracting angle of 45 ' , it was determined to employ it during the eclipse of 1893 .
The instrument was placed at the disposal of the Eclipse Committee by the Solar Physics Committee , and was entrusted to Mr. Fowler , who took the photographs at the African station .
It also seemed desirable that a series of similar photographs should be taken at another point on the line of totality , even though an equally efficient instrument were not available .
A spectroscope with two 3-inch prisms of 60 ' , used in conjunction with a siderostat , accordingly formed part of the equipment of the expedition to Brazil , and was placed in charge of Mr. Shackleton .
The present preliminary report is intended to indicate the kind of results obtained , and some of the photographs are reproduced for the information of those specially interested , as it will be some time before the complete reductions are ready for publication .
At the African station 30 plates were exposed , 15 during totality , and the remainder in the five minutes before and after totality .
In Brazil 17 plates were exposed during totality , and 7 out of totality .
The most conspicuous lines , or rather portions of circles , seen in the photographs taken during totality , are the H and K lines of calcium , and in these rays the images of the various prominences are very clearly outlined .
The lines of hydrogen , extending far into the ultra violet , are also very prominent , and numerous other lines are seen in addition .
Isochromatic plates were used for some of the exposures , and on some of these the ring formed by the characteristic line of the coronal spectrum ( 1474 K ) is clearly depicted , especially in the Brazilian photographs .
A comparison with the photographic records of the corona shows that the prismatic camera has picked out the brightest 8 Messrs. W. Macnab and E. Ristori .
[ May 10 , parts of the corona in this way .
All the photographs show a bright continuous spectrum from the inner corona .
Some of the plates taken out of totality show numerous bright lines at the cusps of the crescent of the sun then visible , chief among them being the lines of hydrogen and the H and K lines of calcium ; others , farther removed from the second and third contacts , show only the Fraunhofer lines .
III .
Researches on Modern Explosives.\#151 ; Preliminary Communication .
" By William Macnab , F.I.C. , F.C.S. , and E. Ristori , Ass .
M. Inst. C.E. , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Professor Ramsay , F.R.S. Received February 28 , 1894 .
During the last two years we have carried out a long series of experiments with explosive compounds for the purpose of studying chemical reactions at high temperatures and pressures , and of elucidating certain thermal constants relating chiefly to the specific heat of gases under such conditions .
For these experiments we have principally used nitro-glyeerin , nitro-cellulose , and several combinations of these two bodies which are used as smokeless gunpowders , for the reason that such modern explosives offer the advantage of not only presenting comparatively simple chemical reactions , owing to the absence of solid residue , but also of enabling considerable variations to be made in their composition so as to vary the proportions of the elements reacting .
We also expected that the results which we obtained would make a small contribution to the knowledge of explosives in general , following up the lines indicated by the published work of JSToble and Abel , Berthelot , Sarrau , Yieille , and others .
In this preliminary communication we propose chiefly to indicate the results obtained in the measurement of the heat evolved by explosion , and of the quantity and composition of the gases produced by this metamorphosis .
We have also made considerable progress towards the determination of the actual temperature of explosion , and we have succeeded in recording these high temperatures by photographic means , but , as this work is not yet completed , we shall not further refer to it in this paper , but we hope it will make the subject of another communication at an early date .
These modern explosives , and especially the smokeless powders , have assumed of late such importance that it may be of general interest to give here a brief sketch of their development .
About thirty years ago experiments were made in Austria with the

