450 Miss Tozer and Prof. Sherrington .
Receptors [ May 18 , Morris with attached than with detached leaves of H. cannot be entirely attributed to less widely opened stomata ; but that part of the products of photosynthesis must have been translocated .
Broocks ' experiments with the sugar-beet have proved that in that plant translocation does proceed during the day .
On two continuously sunny days he found that leaves increased rapidly in dry weight till noon , and then , suddenly ceasing to assimilate , lost weight continuously at a uniform rate till about midnight .
In this case also it seems more reasonable to suppose that in the morning translocation was taking place , though masked by assimilation , rather than that it only began when the leaves stopped assimilating .
I hope myself to obtain more conclusive evidence as to whether assimilation and translocation proceed concurrently .
Now that a satisfactory modification of the dry weight method has been elaborated it is to be expected that this and other similar problems will be successfully attacked .
Receptors and Afferents of the T , , and Sixth Cranial Nerves .
By Frances M. Tozer , B.Se .
, and C. S. Sherrington , D.Sc .
( Received May 18 , \#151 ; Read June 6 , 1910 .
) The view generally accepted regarding the functions of the third , fourth , and sixth cranial nerve pairs is that they are purely motor .
Certain experiments and observations made by one of us* and published some years ago threw doubt , however , on this belief .
It was then shown that severance of the third or fourth or sixth nerves at origin from the brain produces degeneration of practically all the nerve-fibres of the respective muscles innervated by those nerves and of the receptive endorgans with which those muscles are , as was shown , f plentifully supplied .
Further , on the physiological side it was found ( 1 ) that intracranial severance of both nn .
trigemini in the monkey resulted in no obvious impairment or ataxy of eyeball movements , and ( 2 ) that severance of both * ' Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' June , 1894 ; ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 17 , p. 20 ; ' Roy .
Soc. Prop. , Feb. , 1897 , vol. 61 , p. 247 ; ibid. , Sept. , 1898 , vol. 64 , p. 120 .
t Sherrington , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ Feb. , 1897 .
1910 .
] Afferents of Third , Fourth , and Sixth Cranial Nerves .
451 nil .
trigemini , combined with severance of both optic nerves , even after transection of the encephalic bulb , does not obviously depress the tonus of the eye-muscles ( extrinsic ) .
Since severance of the afferent nerves of muscles does almost universally depress their tonus severely , the inference was drawn that in the case of the extrinsic eye-muscles their tonus is not dependent on trigeminus or opticus , and may , therefore , be referable to afferents contained within the third , fourth , and sixth nerve-pairs themselves .
To examine further the whole question , the experiments and observations , forming the basis of the present communication have since been undertaken .
A. Characters of Nerve-endings a'nd Nerve-fibres Normally Present in the Extrinsic Eye-muscles.\#151 ; Eenewed examination has been made of the intramuscular nerve-twigs and nerve-endings of the normal eye-muscles of rabbit , cat , and monkey .
For this purpose use has been made chiefly of the intra-vitam methylene blue method of Ehrlich and of osmic acid for staining and fixation prior to weak dissociation and teasing .
In carrying out the methylene blue method the procedure recommended by Eugling* from experience in F. B. Hofmann 's laboratory has been followed .
This examination of the muscles has fully confirmed the previously reported abundance of nerve-fibres distributed quite outside the region of distribution of motor plates , and that of these fibres many pass into the tendon of insertion and then recurve to end at junction of tendon with the fleshy part of the muscle .
The methylene blue preparations have given results agreeing with those obtained by Hubert and by A. Dogielt They show the whole region of the musculo-tendinous junction of the muscle to contain a zone rich in nerve-endings of obviously receptive ( sensorial ) type , extending as a band right , across the entire transverse breadth of the muscle ( see figure ) .
In addition to these endorgans at tendon-muscle junction there are numbers of other nerve-endings of various and evidently non-motor type scattered throughout the muscles .
Instances of these have been classified and figured by Huber and Dogiel .
S Our preparations confirm their description , and add little to it , except that we find , especially in the monkey , numerous endings which we incline to regard as receptive spindles ( muscle-spindles ) of peculiarly simple form .
Tendon Nerves.\#151 ; In the normal eye-muscles it is usual by the osmic acid * ' Archiv .
f. d. gesammt .
Physiol. , ' vol. 121 , p. 279 , 1908 .
t ' Journ. of Comparative Neurology , ' May , 1900 , vol. 10 , No. 2 .
J ' Archiv f. mikroscop .
Anatomy , ' 1906 , vol. 68 .
S Ibid. 452 Miss Tozer and Prof. Sherrington .
Receptors and [ May 18 , method to find in each muscle 250 to 350 small nerve-fibres entering the tendon from the fleshy part of the muscle .
These fibres enter commonly in groups comprising three to eight fibres in a bundle .
The individual fibres dichotomise , exhibit relatively thick , loose primitive sheaths , and nodes recurring frequently at short intervals .
The entrance into the tendon of T E N DON Superior Rectus of Monkey ( Macacus rhesus ) .
Portion of the junction of the fleshy part of the muscle with its tendon , embracing about one-twelfth of the whole breadth of the muscle , showing tendon-nerves passing from the former into the latter , and then recurving to terminate in variously brush-shaped endings .
Intra-vitam methylene blue method ( Ehrlich ) .
These nerves and endings disappear after intracranial severance of the 3rd nerve .
such numbers of myelinate nerve-fibres , obviously from their microscopic characters about to end , supplies a criterion for judging the afferent innervation of the muscle , and we have used it as such .
B. Condition of the , Orbital Nerves and Muscles after Severance of the Various Cranial Nerves Supplying the Orbit.\#151 ; To determine the source or 1910 .
] Afferentsof Third , Fourth , and Sixth Cranial Nerves .
453 sources of the afferent nerve-fibres of the several extrinsic ocular muscles we have had recourse to the degeneration method .
Our experiments of this kind fall under six headings .
I. Severance of the Third Cranial Nerve at its Origin from , the Peduncle of the Cerebrum.\#151 ; Eleven experiments , including five with Dr. E. E. Laslett ; one rabbit , three cats , seven monkeys .
The time allowed for degeneration has varied between 5 days at shortest and 56 days at longest .
During life the symptoms were the ptosis , external strabismus , and the dilatation of the pupil well known to result from paralysis of the third nerve .
Degeneration Results .
( 1 ) Orbital Nerves.\#151 ; The nerve-trunks proceeding to and entering the superior , inferior , and internal recti muscles and the inferior oblique exhibited complete degeneration except for the fact that certain minute myelinate fibres sparse in number were quite sound .
These fibres vary in diameter between 2 g , and 7 g , .
Their number never exceeded 25 in any one of the above muscle nerves : commonly there were from 6 to 12 of $iem for each muscle ; in some cases , in some of the muscle nerves , none at all were discoverable .
The fibres resemble in size and appearance those of the short ciliary nerves proceeding from the ciliary ganglion .
The fourth and sixth nerves , the branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve , and the short ciliary nerves " vyere entirely free from degeneration .
( 2 ) Orbital muscles.\#151 ; In the superior , inferior , and internal recti muscles and in the inferior oblique no intramuscular nerve-endings either of motor or receptive ( sensorial ) type were found .
At the tendon ends of these muscles , in most cases , though not in all , there persisted a few undegenerate nerve-fibres varying in diameter from 2 to 5 ; the greatest number found in any one muscle was 13 ( in inferior oblique ) .
In two instances there were found Golgi tendon-organs , one to three in number .
In the control muscles from the same orbit , namely external rectus and superior oblique , as also in the muscles of the orbit of the opposite side , the usual abundance of receptive nerve-endings as well as motor plates were visible , and the usual abundance of tendon nerves .
II .
Intracranial Severance of First Division of Fifth Nerve just Distal to Gasserian Ganglion.\#151 ; One experiment ( monkey ) .
The period allowed for degeneration was 15 days .
The symptoms observable were anaesthesia of the cornea , upper eyelid , and forehead .
The pupil of the operated side was the smaller .
Degeneration Results .
( 1 ) Orbital Nerves.\#151 ; In the frontal and nasal branches ( the lachrymal was not examined ) of the fifth nerve no sound nerve-fibres remained .
In the branch from third nerve to internal rectus muscle all nerve-fibres were sound : but the branch from third to inferior oblique VOL. lxxxii.\#151 ; b. 2 N 454 Miss Tozer and Prof. Sherrington .
Receptors and [ May 18 , contained three degenerated fibres and the branch to superior rectus contained seven degenerated fibres .
The fourth nerve showed a considerable number of degenerated fibres , and so likewise did the sixth nerve .
( 2 ) Muscles.\#151 ; The muscles supplied by the third nerve exhibited no departure from the normal , either in respect to their intra-muscular nerves , their tendon nerves or their nerve-endings of receptive ( sensorial ) and motor type respectively .
In the superior oblique and external rectus a number of receptive nerve-endings of normal appearance were seen and many normal tendon nerves .
In this experiment the partial degeneration of fourth and sixth nerves was , it can scarcely be doubted , due to accidental partial injury of them at the time of severance of the ophthalmic division of the fifth , close to which they lie .
And this supposition is abundantly supported by the results of the experiments mentioned in succeeding sub-sections .
The fibres , extremely few in number , found degenerate in certain of the branches of third may have come from the ophthalmic division of fifth .
III .
Intracranial Severance of Fourth Nerve , and also of Ophthalmic Division of Fifth Nerve.\#151 ; Two experiments ( monkey ) .
Period allowed for degeneration , 28 and 50 days respectively .
Degeneration Results .
( 1 ) Orbital Nerves.\#151 ; In the frontal and nasal branches of fifth nerve a few fibres ( maximum 10 ) of small diameter were undegenerate , otherwise their degeneration was absolute .
The fourth nerve was completely degenerate , no sound fibres remaining .
The sixth nerve and the branches of the third nerve contained no degenerate fibres , except that the branch from the inferior division of third to the inferior oblique muscle exhibited 10 degenerate fibres .
( 2 ) Muscles.\#151 ; In superior oblique muscle no nerve-endings were found , and in one case no sound tendon nerves at all ; in the other case , five sound fibres of minute diameter were found in the tendon .
All the muscles , except superior oblique , exhibited the usual nerve-endings , and the usual number of tendon nerves perfectly sound .
IY .
Intracranial Severance of Ophthalmic Division of Fifth Nerve and of the Sixth Cranial Nerve.\#151 ; Three experiments , including one with Dr. E. E. Laslett ( monkey ) .
Symptoms as in II , combined with external strabismus .
Periods allowed for degeneration , 15 , 16 , and 50 days respectively .
Degeneration Results .
( A ) In the 16-day experiment .
( 1 ) Orbital Nerves .
No sound fibres were detected in the nasal , frontal , and lachrymal branches of fifth nerve , nor in the sixth nerve at its entrance into the orbit .
Conversely , in the branches of the third nerve and fourth nerve , no nerve-fibres at all were degenerate .
( 2 ) Muscles.\#151 ; In external rectus , although all nerve-endings had dis- 1910 .
] Afferents of Third , Fourth , and Sixth Cranial Nerves .
455 appeared , about 20 nerve-fibres of minute diameter remained sound , three reaching the tendon .
In the other muscles , the nerve-endings and tendon nerves were normal .
( 13 ) In the 15-day experiment the results were the same as the above in regard to the branches of the fifth and the sixth nerves .
In the branch of the third to superior rectus , however , and in the fourth nerve , as it entered the superior oblique , there were degenerate fibres to the number of 70\#151 ; 80 .
From external rectus all nerve-endings had disappeared , but one sound nerve-fibre of small calibre was present , not , however , reaching the tendon .
The remaining muscles of the orbit , including superior rectus and superior oblique , exhibited the usual normal nerve-endings and tendon nerves .
( C ) In the 50-day experiment the results agreed with the above , except that in frontal nerve , at its exit from orbit , six minute nerve-fibres were still sound , and in sixth nerve , at entrance into external rectus , five minute nerve-fibres were still sound .
In the tendon of external rectus , three minute sound fibres were discovered , otherwise , all nerve-endings and nerve-fibres had disappeared .
In this experiment , as in the 16-day experiment , the fourth nerve and the branches of the third nerve were entirely free from any trace of degeneration .
Y. Intracranial Severance of Fourth Nerve , Ophthalmic Division of Fifth Nerve , and Sixth Nerve.\#151 ; One experiment ( monkey ) .
Symptoms as in IY .
Period allowed for degeneration , 50 days .
Degeneration Results .
( 1 ) Orbital Nerves.\#151 ; Complete degeneration of fourth nerve and of all branches of ophthalmic of fifth and the sixth nerve .
( 2 ) Muscles.\#151 ; In superior oblique no nerve-endings were found , but a few nerve-fibres persisted sound ; some of these approached the tendon end .
In external rectus no nerve-endings and no tendon nerves remained .
In the remaining muscles of the orbit the customary nerve-endings and tendon nerves were discoverable as usual , and showed no departure from normal .
YI .
Intracranial Severance of Tltird Nerve , Ophthalmic Division of Fifth Nerve and the Sixth Nerve.\#151 ; One experiment ( monkey ) .
Period allowed for degeneration , 30 days .
Symptoms during life were ptosis , practical immobility of eyeball , great dilatation of pupil , anaesthesia of cornea , upper lid and forehead .
Degeneration Results.(1 ) Orbital Nerves.\#151 ; The frontal branch of fifth contained no sound fibres , the nasal branch contained two , and the lachrymal branch contained a few sound fibres of minute size .
The branch from third nerve to internal rectus contained no sound fibres , but the branch to inferior rectus contained six , that to superior rectus four , 2 n 2 456 Miss Tozer and Prof. Sherrington .
Receptors and [ May 18 , and that to inferior oblique sixteen sound fibres , all of minute size .
The fourth nerve entering superior oblique showed a certain number of degenerate fibres , some large , but in the main the nerve was sound .
The short ciliary nerves were found to be entirely free from degeneration .
( 2 ) Muscles.\#151 ; No nerve-endings were discoverable in any of the muscles except superior oblique , which latter showed them without any obvious departure from the normal .
From the remaining muscles the nerve-endings , had all disappeared , and the tendon nerves also were gone , though in the tendon of internal rectus one sound nerve-fibre persisted , and in that of superior rectus four , and in that of inferior rectus six .
( Regarding levator palpebrce in this and the other experiments we are reserving our remarks for a fuller account than the present communication allows .
) Conclusions .
After severance , therefore , of the third nerve at its origin , not only do the motor-plate endings disappear from superior , inferior and internal recti and inferior oblique muscles , but the musculo-tendinous and intramuscular receptive ( sensorial ) nerve-endings also disappear from these muscles , together with the afferent nerve-fibres supplying them .
Similarly with the superior oblique muscle after intracranial severance of the fourth nerve .
Similarly with the external rectus muscle after intracranial severance of the sixth nerve .
The fifth nerve may send a few fibres to the muscles in the orbit , but this supply in rabbit , cat , and monkey is insignificant in amount .
A few sparse myelinate fibres of minute size ( 2/ 4\#151 ; 5 yu .
) still persist undegenerate in the extrinsic eye muscles after combined severance of the third , fourth , and sixth nerves , and of the ophthalmic division of the fifth ; some of these pass into the tendons of the muscles .
Their source appears to be the ciliary ganglion , and in the case of the inferior oblique muscle a small accessory ganglion lying in the nerve of that muscle , sometimes quite close to the entrance of the nerve into the muscle itself .
The ciliary ganglion is , as Langley and Anderson* have shown , entirely an efferent relay station , and is the equivalent , as Gaskellf pointed out , of a sympathetic ganglion .
That it contains no cells equivalent to those of the spinal root-ganglia seems certain from the absence of sound fibres in the intracranial stumps of third , fourth , or sixth nerves , distal to their intracranial severance .
The few sparse minute myelinate fibres probably of ciliary source which , in the orbit , find * * Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 17 , p. 184 , 1894 j .
, vol. 32 , p. 173 .
t SJourn .
of Physiol. , ' vol. 10 , p. 153 , 1889 .
1910 .
] Affevents of Third , Fourth , and Sixth Cranial Nerves .
457 their way into the orbital muscles , in many instances accompany bloodvessels , and in a small number of instances we have been able to trace some of them actually to termination in the walls of arterioles .
The third , fourth , and sixth cranial nerve pairs are therefore afferent-efferent , their afferents belonging to the receptive ( sensorial ) endings with which all the extrinsic eye-muscles are richly provided .
The afferent divisions of these cranial nerves are by their distribution exclusively proprio-ceptive , * supplying no other organs either extero-ceptive or interoceptive .
As regards the reflexes obtainable from these nerves our experiments have dealt chiefly with the branch from third nerve to inferior oblique .
When this muscle after detachment is briskly stretched between ivory-tipped forceps reflex movements ( of ear , etc. ) are obtainable .
As regards the normal functions of these afferents of the eye-muscles , it was shown previously !
that after the conjunctiva , both palpebral and ocular , and the cornea of both eyes have been rendered deeply anaesthetic by cocaine , the eyes can still be directed to any given point with considerable accuracy in a completely dark room .
One must think that for such performance the exercise of some peripheral apparatus of sense is required .
Under the above conditions , the superficial fifth and optic nerves having been excluded , the only possible channels seem the proprio-ceptive sense-organs and afferents of the third , fourth , and sixth nerve-pairs themselves .
The occurrence of degeneration of the third , fourth , and sixthj cranial nerves in cases of tabes , a disease defined as " primary progressive degeneration of the first afferent ( sensory ) projection system of neurones " ( Mott ) , S becomes less anomalous in view of these nerves being afferent-efferent , and not purely efferent .
The ocular deviations common in tabes may be referable to loss of reflex tonus , owing to degeneration of the proprioceptive afferents rather than to actual paralysis from destruction of the motor fibres of these nerves .
The fuller consideration of these and other points we leave to be dealt with in a more complete account which we hope soon to furnish .
* * * S * Sherrington , 'Integrative Action of the Nervous System , ' p. 336 , 1906 .
+ Sherrington , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 64 , p. 120 , 1898 .
+ Oppenheim and Siemerling , ' Archiv f. Psychiatric , ' vol. 18 , p. 161 , 1887 .
S ' System of Medicine , ' vol. 7 , p. 98 , 1901 ( Allbutt ) .

