VIII .
A Letter from Dr. Robert James , of Lichfield , to Sir Hans Sloane , Bart. Pr .
R. S. containing some Experiments made upon Mad Dogs with Mercury .
Lichfield , June 3 , 1735 .
SIR , IN pursuance of your Commands , I here give you an Account of some Experiments that have been made upon Mad Dogs with Mercury , which I apprehend I have some Reason to believe is the most effectual Preservative against , and perhaps even a Cure for the Hydrophobia .
About Michaelmas , 1731 , I waited on Mr Floyer , of Hints , a Gentleman who is very curious in FoxHounds .
He complained that He was afraid of a Madness amongst his Hounds ; for that Morning one had run mad in the Kennel , and he was apprehensive that most of the rest were bit by him : I took this Opportunity of telling him that I had long believed that Mercury would , if tried , prove the best Remedy against this Infection ; and that if the Idea I had formed of this Poison was just , I was pretty sure the Medicine would answer , notwithstanding the Difficulty there is of determining the Effects of a Medicine a priori ; and that it was , at least , worth while to try .
Mr. Floyer neglected this Advice till the February following .
Mean time he tried the Medicine in Bates , commonly known by the Name of the Pewter-Medicine ; as also every thing else which was recommended to him by other Sportsmen , but to no Purpose ; for some of his Hounds run mad almost every Day after Hunting .
Upon this he took his Hounds to the Sea , and had every one of them dipped in the SaltWater ; and at his Return , brought his Pack to another Gentleman 's Kennel , six Miles distant from his own .
But , notwithstanding this Precaution , he lost six or seven Couple of his Dogs in a Fortnights Time .
About this Time , which was in February .
I waited on him at his new Habitation , and found him in that Distress not unusual with Sportsmen upon these Occasions .
I asked him if he had tried the Experiment I recommended .
He said he had not , but that two of his Hounds were then mad , and he would that Night do it .
He showed me the Dogs , and they were both as far gone as I ever have seen any .
They refused Food of all Sorts , particularly Fluids , slaver 'd much , and had all the Symptoms of a Hydrophobia to a great Degree .
He sent immediately to Lichfield for all the Turpeth Mineral he could get , and that Night gave twelve Grains apiece to the two Dogs , which vomited and purged them gently .
Twenty-four Hours after this he gave to each twenty-four Grains , and after the same Interval he gave forty-eight more to each .
The Dogs salivated considerably , and soon after lapped warm Milk .
At the End of twenty-four Hours more he repeated to one Dog twenty-four Grains more , and omitted it to the other .
The Dog that took this last Dose , lay upon the Ground salivated extremely , was in great Agonies , and had all the Symptoms of a Salivation raised too quick ; but got through it , and is at this Time alive .
The other relapsed and died .
To all the rest of the Pack he gave seven Grains of the Turpeth for the first Dose , the second twelve , at twenty-four Hours distance , which was repeated every other Day for some little Time .
The Method was repeated at the two~ or three succeeding Fulls and Changes of the Moon .
From this Time he lost not another Hound ; and though several have since been bit by strange Dogs , the Turpeth has always prevented any ill Consequences .
I and my Friends have tried the same Thing since upon a Multitude of Dogs , and it has never failed in any one Instance , though Dogs bit at the same Time , and by the same Dogs , have run mad after most other Methods had been tried .
As to the Experiments made upon Mankind , I have had Opportunities of making but three .
The first was about two Years and a half ago , upon a Girl about fourteen Years old .
The Calf of her Leg was so torn by a Mad Dog , that the Surgeon was obliged to use Means to prevent a Mortification from the Bite .
She was vomited by the Turpeth .
Three Days before the next Change of the Moon , the Vomit was repeated , and again the very Day of its changing .
The same Method was pursued the next Full Moon .
The Girl is very well .
The second was a Boy of about ten Years of Age .
He had Four Holes in one of his Legs , made by a Mad Dog in November last .
The Turpeth was given as above , and the Wounds dressed with Digestives , and he continues well .
These two lived near Burton upon Trent , and Mr. Towndrow , of that Place , was Apothecary .
The third Case was that of a young Man near Tamworth , of about eighteen .
The Bite was upon the Hand .
A great Number of Dogs were bit at the same Time , in the Town where he lived .
About six Days after the Mischief was done , several Dogs that had been wounded ran mad , upon which he applied himself to Mr. Wilson , Apothecary in Tamworth , to whom I had communicated the Success of the Turpeth in this Case .
The young Man was , at this Time , very melancholy and dejected , had Tremors , and slept very little for some Nights before , though he was not apprehensive that the Dog which bit him was mad .
He had a dry Scab upon his Hand : He was , upon applying to Mr. Wilson , vomited with Vin .
Benedict .
~ .
The next Thing he took was made according to the following Prescription .
~ Turpeth .
Min .
gr. xij .
Lap .
Contrayerv .
3i .
There .
Androm .
q. s. M. F. Bol .
No 3 , sumat unum singulis noctibus horadecubitus superbibendo Julap .
seq. Cochl .
iv .
~ Aq .
Rut .
~ .
Theriac .
~ .
Sir .
Paeon .
c. ~ Tinct .
Castor 3ij M. F. Julap .
Upon taking these he sweat very much , and had two loose Stools every Day after them : His Tremors went off , and slept better .
After this he went into the Cold-Bath , and continues perfectly well .
But what is remarkable in this Case is , that the Wound ran a thick digested Matter after this Method , and threw off the Scab like an Escar ; after which it healed of itself .
I will not presume to philosophize upon these Cases , when I am writing to one who is so much better capable of doing it than I can pretend to be .
Much less shall I pretend to determine whether Mercury has these Effects from its specific Properties , which enables it to prevent or dissolve those inflammatory Concretions which cause the Hydrophobia , or from the Evacuations it causes .
Instead of discussing this Point , give me leave to make an Observation or two upon the Antiquity of this Disease , which I the rather choose to do , because Caelius Aurelianus , in his Account of it , does not seem to build so much upon the Authority of Homer as , in my humble Opinion , he might have done .
Indeed he quotes a Passage out of the eighth Iliad , where Teucer calls Hector ~~ but does not seem to think this sufficient to prove that Homer was acquainted with this Madness .
But he omits two more Passages in the same Author , which , joined with this , amount to a Demonstration that Homer was by no means ignorant of it .
The first is in the ninth Iliad , where Ulysses is upon his Embassy to Achilles .
He describes to the last mentioned Hero , the Distress the Grecian Army was in through his Absence ; and when he has painted Hector as terrible as he can , he compares his Fury to the Rage of a Mad Dog .
Iliad Lib. ix .
l. 237 .
~ ~ ~ Hector vero valde trucibus oculis adspiciens Furit terribiliter , fretus Jove : nec quicquam honorat Viros neque Deos ; ingens autem ipsum rabies invasit .
If Homer had designed to describe a Mad Dog as a Physician , he could not have expressed his Looks by a more proper Word than ~ .
It must also be considered , that this Discourse is directed to Achilles , who , having studied Physic under Chiron , was consequently more capable of receiving an Idea of the Mischief Hector did to his Country-men by this Metaphor .
In the thirteenth Iliad , Hector is again called ~ , by Neptune .
It must be observed that ~ , ~ , and ~ , can properly , and in their natural Signification , cation , be applied to no other Madness than that which is peculiar to a Dog , though metaphorically it may , as in the Instances I have given , as also in Sophoclis and Euripides .
The Word ~ or ~ is used to signify the Madness of Dogs by Aristotle , Galen , and Dioscorides .
And ~~ is used by the last mentioned Author to signify a Man bit by a Mad Dog .
~ is used by Aretaeus in this Sense , and ~ by Plutarch , to express the same Thing .
What I would infer from this is , that Homer was certainly acquainted with the Madness of Dogs ; and if Dogs in his Days ran mad , it is probable they would bite Men , and if so , to be sure , an Hydrophobia would be the Consequence ; notwithstanding that , Plutarch will have it that it was first taken Notice of in the Days of Asclepiades , who was famous for his Practice in Rome before the Death of Mithridates .
Another strong Evidence of its Antiquity is that Instinct which directs every Dog to avoid him that is mad , upon smelling , seeing , or even hearing him .
If this is not Instinct , it is Reason ; and that in a higher Degree than we ourselves can pretend to .
Now Instinct must be coeval with the Creation , or at least the Fall ; and therefore Madness must not be much younger .
I heartily ask Pardon for taking up so much of your Time from Business of much greater Import ; and I beg Leave to subscribe myself , SIR , Your most obedient humble Servant , ROBERTJAME S.

