" On the Dicynodont Reptilia , with a Description of some Fossil Remains brought by H.R.H. Prince Alfred from South Africa in November 1860 .
" By Professor R. OWEN , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received January 23 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author describes some fossil remains obtained , at the suggestion of H.R.H. the late Prince Consort , by H.R.H. Prince Alfred , during his journey in South Africa .
They are referable to two genera of Dicynodont Reptilia .
The first specimen is an unusually perfect specimen of the skull , retaining the lower jaw in connexion with the tympanic pedicles , of a species of Ptychognathus , showing distinctive characters from previously described species , and which the author dedicates to its discoverer under the name of Ptychognathus Alfredi .
The anatomical characters of this fossil were described in detail .
It was obtained from a greenish sandstone , probably Triassic , of the Rhenosterberg , South Africa .
The second specimen is the skull , with the lower jaw , also in situ , of a true Dicynodon , referable by its size to the largest known species ( Dicynodon tigriceps , Ow .
) .
The right maxillary and zygomatic arch having been partially removed in quarrying the rock containing the fossil , a further detachment of the matrix brought into view the descending cranial plate of the frontal , the interorbital septum , the upper surface of part of the bony palate with the pterygoid , and the rhinencephalic continuation of the cranial cavity .
The presphenoid projects forward as a compressed plate , exceeding in relative length and extent of ossification that in Chelonia , and more resembling that in Crocodilia , Anterior to the pre .
sphenoid is the vomer , which expands laterally to join the palatines and pterygoids .
Other cranial characters deducible from the present and not shown in previous specimens are noticed .
As a whole , the skull exemplifies the near equality in size of this extinct twotusked reptile of South Africa with the existing Walrus ; and it shows that in the structure of the bony palate , as in some other parts of the skull , the Dicynodon combines Crocodilian with Chelonian and Lacertian characters .
The specimen above described was obtained by H.R.I. Prince Alfred , from the Karoo beds , in the district of Graaf Reinet , South Africa .
The author next proceeds to describe the pelvis of a Dicynodon equalling in bulk the D. tigriceps , and most probably belonging to that species .
It includes , with five sacral vertebrae , the last of those of the trunk which supported free ribs , showing that there are no vertebrae having the character of lumbar ones in Dicynodon .
The length of the six successive centrums was 1 foot 2 inches .
The ribs of the first sacral vertebra resemble in size and shape the human scapula , but are much thicker ; their expanded terminations , 6 inches in breadth , underlap or pass anterior to the iliac bones , to which this rib has been attached by syndesmosis .
The ribs of the succeeding sacral vertebrae are shorter and thicker , and abut against the ossa innominata , as far back as the ischial tuberosities .
The ilium , ischium , and pubis have coalesced to form one bone , as in some lizards and in mammalia ; and , as in the latter class , the symphysis at which the ischio-pubic portion of each os innominatum joins its fellow is continuous ; the pubic symphysis is not separated from the ischial symphysis .
But ossification has advanced further than in any mammal , to the complete obliteration of the obturator foramina , which in most reptiles are represented by very wide vacuities .
The pubic bones show an oblique perforation near the acetabulum , homologous with that which co-exists with large obturator openings in most lizards .
The brim of this singularly massive pelvis measures 10 inches in antero-posterior , and 11 inches in transverse diameter : the outlet measures 4 inches in antero-posterior , and 9 inches in transverse diameter .
In the comparison of this , at present , unique type of pelvic structure , it is interesting to observe , in connexion with the mammalian tusks in the skull , a mammalian condition of the symphysis pubis , and also a mammalian expansion of the iliac bone .
In the number of sacral vertebrae Dicynodon resembles the Dinosaurian reptiles , as well as some mammalia ; and hence it may be inferred that , like the Megalosaurus and Iguanodon , a heavy trunk was in part supported on a pair of large hind limbs , the weight thereupon being transferred by a larger proportion of the vertebral column than in the prone crawling crocodiles and lizards of the present day .
The author , from certain associated fossils , deduces a probability of the triassic age of the sandstones including the above-described South African Reptilia , and remarks that it is in a sandstone of triassic age in Shropshire where fossil remains occur of a reptile which , in biting with trenchant edentulous jaws , also pierced its prey by a pair of produced weapons analogous to the tusks of Dicynodon .
Of this reptile , the Rhynchosaurus articeps , Ow .
, the author describes the skull , vertebrse , and some other bones , which have been lately discovered in the New Red Sandstone of Grinsill , Shrewsbury .
The remains of the limb-bones in this specimen bespeak a reptile capable of progression on dry land , as well as of swimming in the sea-of one that might leave impressions of its foot-prints on a tidal shore .
This paper is illustrated by numerous drawings .

