II .
" Researches on the Velocities of Currents of Air in Vertical Tubes , due to the presence of Aqueous Vapour in the Atmosphere .
" By W. D. CHOWNE , M.D. Communicated by JOHN BISHOP , Esq. , F.R.S. Received May 22 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) This was a paper supplementary to one presented June 14th , 1855 , an abstract of which was published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' for June 21st , 1855 .
The author having ascertained that an upward current of air becomes established in a vertical tube placed in as quiescent an atmosphere as can be obtained , and having demonstrated its existence by means of anemometric discs placed in tubes as described in that paper , proceeded to ascertain the velocity of the currents by which the discs were moved .
In order to estimate the velocity of the currents , one of the anemometric discs was placed within a short zinc tube three inches in diameter , the lower end of which was accurately fitted into an aspirator capable of containing thirty-six gallons of water .
By drawing off in a given time a quantity of water equal in bulk to the cubic contents of one of the tubes described in the former paper , the velocity of a current required to produce a given number of rotations of the disc was determined .
The experiments were varied by altering the height of water in the aspirator , and thereby changing the velocity , while the exitorifice remained unaltered .
By ascertaining the number of rotations of the anemometric disc , caused by currents of air of different velocities thus produced , he was enabled to arrive at a measure of the velocities in tubes placed in a still atmosphere , as described in his former paper .
The author in that paper pointed out a correspondence between the variations of force in the upward currents of atmospheric air in the tubes and variations in the humidity of the atmosphere , and expressed his belief that the variations were attributable in great measure to the varying hygrometric conditions of the atmosphere .
In further proof of this position , he has appended two tables , showing that both natural and artificial increase of atmospheric humidity are accompanied by increase in the velocity of the rotations , and that in each case increase of humidity is attended by increase of velocity , independent of temperature .

