65 The Physiological Effects of Low Atmospheric , as Observed on Pike 's Peak , Colorado .
( .Communication .
) By C. Gordon Douglas , B.M. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Oxford ; J. S. Haldane , M.D. , L.L.D. , F.R.S. , Fellow of New College , Oxford ; Yandell Henderson , Ph. D. , Professor of Physiology , Yale University Medical School ; and Edward C. Schneider , Ph. D. , Professor of Biology , Colorado College .
( Received January 11 , \#151 ; Read January 18 , 1912 .
) The following is a short preliminary account of a series of observations made in the summer of 1911 on the summit of Pike 's Peak , Colorado .
Pike 's Peak is 14,109 feet above sea-level , the barometric pressure on the summit being about 18 inches ( 457 mm. ) .
There is an excellent stone house close to the summit , in which we were accommodated during our stay of five weeks .
The main object of the expedition was to discover to what extent , and by what means , adaptation takes place to low barometric pressure and consequent deficiency in the partial pressure of oxygen in the air .
Our chief conclusions are as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) After two or three days on the summit of Pike 's Peak very distinct signs of acclimatisation began to appear .
( 2 ) Before acclimatisation occurred blueness of the lips and face , nausea , intestinal disturbance , headache , fainting in some persons , and periodic breathing were observed , besides great hyperpncea on exertion or holding the breath for a few seconds .
( 3 ) All these symptoms are referable , directly or indirectly , to want of oxygen , produced by the diminished partial pressure of oxygen in the air .
We did not observe , either in ourselves or in the large number of persons who ascended the Peak , any symptoms ( apart from the effects of the bright light ) not referable to the same cause .
( 4 ) After acclimatisation had occurred these symptoms disappeared , with the exception that hyperpncea on exertion or on holding the breath for a few seconds was still much greater than usual .
Periodic breathing was still observed occasionally , and blueness of the lips and face was present after continuous and fairly powerful exertion , such as walking up hill .
( 5 ) The respiratory exchange during rest remained about normal in the one subject on whom exact experiments were made , and the respiratory exchange during work did not appear to be markedly increased .
VOL. lxxxv.\#151 ; B. F 66 Physiological Effects oj Low Atmospheric Pressures .
( 6 ) After acclimatisation the alveolar carbon dioxide pressure was diminished from about 40 mm. to about 27 mm. during , rest or moderate exertion , which corresponded to an increase of about 50 per cent , in the ventilation of the lung alveoli .
During severe exertion the alveolar carbon dioxide pressure was about half what it normally is during similar exertion , which corresponded to an increase of about 100 per cent , in the hyperpnoea ; and owing to a temporary alteration in the respiratory quotient the breathing was still further increased .
( 7 ) The change in the level of alveolar carbon dioxide pressure occurred gradually after going up , and disappeared gradually on coming down , the change taking a number of days to reach completion .
( 8 ) The percentage of haemoglobin in the blood increased for several weeks on the summit of Pike 's Peak , and varied in different acclimatised persons from 115 to 154 per cent , on the scale of the Gowers-Haldane haemoglobinometer , corresponding to an oxygen capacity of from 21 to 28*5 c.c. of oxygen per 100 c.c. of blood .
The number of red corpuscles per cubic millimetre of blood increased parallel with the haemoglobin , and the percentage volume of red corpuscles , as determined by the haematocrit , also increased in proportion to the percentage of haemoglobin .
( 9 ) A large increase in the total amount of haemoglobin ( determined by the carbon monoxide method ) in the body occurred during the first three weeks , and along with this increase there was found , except in the first week , a slight increase in blood volume , as well as the increase , already referred to , in the percentage of haemoglobin .
( 10 ) On coming down from Pike 's Peak the haemoglobin percentage diminished much more rapidly than the total haemoglobin , so that the blood-volume was still further increased at first .
It required about four weeks for the excess of haemoglobin and blood-volume to disappear , though the haemoglobin percentage fell to normal much earlier .
( 11 ) So far as we could ascertain , there was very little change in the rate of circulation on Pike 's Peak after acclimatisation .
Pulse and blood-pressure were but little affected .
In most cases , however , there was a slight increase in the pulse rate .
( 12 ) After acclimatisation the oxygen pressure in the arterial blood ( measured by the carbon monoxide method ) rose during rest to about 35 mm. of mercury above the alveolar oxygen pressure ( 66 per cent , higher ) , and remained at a level of only about 12 mm. below the normal oxygen pressure at sea-level .
Immediately , after ascending the Peak and before acclimatisation had occurred , the arterial oxygen pressure was found to be about 45 mm. below normal , and only slightly above the alveolar oxygen pressure .
This change The Development of a Leucocytozoon Guinea-Pigs .
67 appears to be due to a progressive increase in the activity of the alveolar epithelium in secreting oxygen inwards .
On raising the alveolar oxygen pressure to normal , the difference between alveolar and arterial oxygen pressure diminished rapidly .
( 13 ) Acclimatisation to high altitudes is due mainly to the increased secretory activity of the alveolar epithelium , but partly also to the increased lung ventilation , and to a lesser extent to the increased haemoglobin percentage in the blood .
The acclimatisation takes some days to develop .
During rapid ascents in balloons or aeroplanes it would not have time to develop , and this explains the contrast between the experience of balloonists , etc. , and that of mountaineers who ascend gradually .
The Development of a Leucocytozoon of Guinea-Pigs .
By Edwakd Halfoed Boss , M.B.C.S. England , L.R.C.P. London .
( Communicated by Sir Ronald Ross , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received January 23 , \#151 ; Read February 29 , 1912 .
) ( From the Laboratories of the McFadden Research Fund , Lister Institute .
) [ Plate 1 .
] The presence of " bodies " within the large mononuclear leucocytes of guinea-pigs was first noticed by Kurloff ( 1898 ) .
He described them as inclusions ; for in a drop of guinea-pig 's blood he noted that many of the large lymphocytes contained , within their cytoplasm , clear , spherical vacuoles which were distinct from the nucleus , and which had not been described before ; and he suggested the possibility of these bodies being accessory nuclei .
Since their discovery by Kurlofif they have been subjected to much research ; and papers describing various observations .concerning them have been published by Burnett ( 1904 ) , Staubli ( 1905 ) , Goldhorn ( 1905 ) , Ledingham ( 1906 ) , Howard ( 1907 ) , Pappenheim ( 1908 ) , Patella ( 1908 ) , Hunter ( 1909 ) , and Schilling ( 1911 ) .
Kurloff noticed that when the blood containing these bodies was fixed and stained , they contained a nucleus-like structure staining with nuclear dyes , but he believed them to be vacuoles formed by a secretion product of the cells which held them .
Ehrlich ( 1906 ) also thought that Kurloff 's bodies represented some " Secretstoff .
" Dr. Ledingham , to whom I am indebted f 2

