" On the Mechanism of Respiration .
" By Francis Sibson .
Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , F.R.S. This paper is almost entirely occupied with anatomical details , collected from an extensive series of dissections of the muscles and bones concerned in the act of respiration in man and the lower animals , for the purpose of elucidating the mechanism of their action both in inspiration and in expiration ; accompanied by a great number of illustrative diagrams and drawings .
The author commences with the serpent tribes , which present the simplest form of ribs , being attached only at their vertebral ends , while their anterior ends are free .
When these ribs are brought forwards by the action of the levatores costarum and external intercostal muscles , the chest is expanded ; and when drawn backwards by the long depressors , internal intercostals and transversales , expiration is effected .
In birds there are added to the former apparatus a sternum , and a series of sternal ribs , the respiratory movements of which are performed in directions the reverse of those of the vertebral ribs .
During inspiration , the angles between the vertebral and sternal ribs become more open ; the sternum moves forwards , and the spinal column slightly backwards , by the combined action of the scaleni and sterno-costal muscles on the first vertebral and first sternal ribs respectively ; of the levatores costarum and external intercostal on all the lower vertebral ribs , and of the sternal intercostals on all the lower sternal ribs .
On expiration these movements are reversed by the action of the internal intercostals , the external and internal oblique , recti , transversales and other muscles .
The mechanism in the Mammalia is further assisted and modified by the addition of a large and powerful diaphragm .
The thoracic ribs are articulated with the sternum by the medium of cartilages corresponding to the sternal ribs of birds : those ribs which are connected with the inferior curve of the dorsal arch have floating cartilages , and may be considered as a diaphragmatic set of ribs .
When raised , the former approach each other , and the latter recede from each other anteriorly .
Intermediate to these are the longer ribs connected with the dorsal arch , having their cartilages united , and articulated with the lower end of the sternum .
The scaleni muscles invariably act during the whole time of inspiration .
The external intercostals between the thoracic ribs are also throughout inspiratory ; but those portions which are situated between their cartilages are expiratory ; and those between the diaphragmatic ribs are inspiratory behind , expiratory to the side , and in front , and inspiratory between their cartilages .
Between the intermediate ribs , they are for the most part slightly inspiratory between the ribs , and expiratory in front , between the cartilages .
The external intercostals of the thoracic ribs are expiratory behind , and inspiratory in front , if the ribs approach these , and are inspiratory between their costal cartilages .
Between the diaphragmatic and intermediate sets of ribs , and between their cartilages they are throughout expiratory .
The levatores costarum draw the posterior portion of the lower ribs backwards .
In the ass and the dog , the upper fasciculi of the serratus magnus are expiratory , the lower inspiratory , and the intermediate neutral .
In man , the greater part of the fasciculi of this muscle is expiratory .
In the ass , the lower fibres of the serratus posticus inferior are inspiratory , and the upper fibres expiratory .
In the dog and in man , all are throughout expiratory .

