-1^ Mr. G. Massee .
[ Jan. 11 , !
forces concerned in the evolution of a " biologic form , " viz , , * " specialising factors " and " generalising factors .
" Attention is also drawn to the close parallel between ( 1 ) the behaviour of the fungus in the experiments in which the conidia were sown on the tissues of the leaf exposed by the cut ; and ( 2 ) the \#187 ; biological facts obtaining in the class of parasitic fungi known as 1 " wound parasites " ( Nedria , Peziza etc. ) , which are able to 1 infect their hosts only through a wound .
" On the Origin of Parasitism in Fungi .
" By George Massee , Principal Assistant , Herbarium , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Communicated by Sir William T. Thselton-Dyer , K.C.M.G. , C.LE .
, F.R.S. Received January 11\#151 ; Read February 4,1904 .
\#171 ; ( Abstract .
) Pp to the present no definite explanation has been offered as to why a given parasitic fungus is often only capable of infecting one particular species of plant .
This , however , is well known to be the case , for although the spores of fungus parasites germinate freely on the surface of any plant when moist , infection only takes place when the spores gei minate on the particular species of plant on which the fungus is known to be parasitic .
This apparently selective power on the part of the fungus I consider to be due to chemotaxis .
An extensive series of experiments were conducted with various species of fungi , including Saprophytes , facultative parasites , and obligate parasites , and the results are given in tabulated form in the full paper .
The ehemotactie properties of substances occurring normally in cell-sap were alone tested ; among such may be enumerated saccharose , glucose , asparagin , malic acid , oxalic acid , and pectase .
In those instances where the specific substance , or combination of substances , in the cell-sap assumed to be chemotactic could not be procured , the expressed juice of the plant was used .
These experiments proved that saprophytes and facultative parasites are positively chemotactic to saccharose , and this substance alone is sufficient in most instances to enable the germ-tubes of facultative parasites to penetrate the tissues of a plant , unless prevented by the presence of a more potent negatively chemotactic or repellent substance in the cell-sap .
As an illustration , Bofrytis cinema , which attacks a greater number of different plants than any other known parasite , cannot infect apples , although saccharose is present , on account of the presence of malic acid , which is negatively chemotactic to the germ-tubes of 1904 .
] On the Origin of Parasitism .
119 In the ease of obligate parasites the cell-sap of the host-plant proved to be the most marked positive chemotatic agent .
Malic acid is the specific substance that attracts the germ-tubes of into the tissues of young apples ; whereas the enzyme pectase performs the same function for the germ-tubes of cucumis , an obligate parasite on the cucumber .
Immune specimens of plants belonging to species that are attacked by some obligate parasite owe their immunity to the absence of the substance chemotactic to the parasite .
Purely saprophytic fungi can be educated to become parasitic , by sowing the spores on living leaves that have been injected with a substance positively chemotactic to the germ-tubes of the fungus experimented with .
By a similar method of procedure , a parasitic fungus can be induced to attack a different species of host-plant .
These experiments prove what has previously only been assumed , namely , that parasitism in fungi is an acquired habit .
A series of experiments prove that infection of plants by fungi occurs more especially during the night , or in dull , damp weather .
This is due to the greater turgidity of the cells , and also to the presence of a larger amount of sugar and other chemotactic substances present in the cell-sap under those conditions .
VOL LXXIII .
K

