II .
" On the Phenomena observed to attend the propulsion of Lymph from one of the Lymphatic Hearts into a Vein in the Frog .
" By THoMAs WHARTON JONES , F.R.S. , Professor of Ophthalmic Medicine and Surgery in University College , &amp;c. Received March 28 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) An anremic frog , killed , as regards sensation and voluntary motion , without stoppage of the circulation , by plunging into water at 110 ?
or 120 ?
Fahr. , was laid open , and the posterior part of the anterior lymphatic heart of one side , in the niche behind and below the extremity of the large transverse process of the third vertebra , brought into view .
By the removal of the skin of the back from over the scapular region , the part of the heart mentioned admitted of examination by transmitted light under a simple microscope- the lens P-inch focus .
It was seen that when the lymphatic heart contracted , a stream of lymph was propelled from it into a vein at its posterior border , and swept before it the blood in that vessel , whilst the flow from behind was arrested .
As soon , however , as diastole of the lymphatic heart supervened , the flow of blood from behind became reResearches on Solar Physics .
established , and drove the lymph onward in its turn .
Systole of the heart now again ensuing , the lymph-stream propelled into the vein swept forward the blood in that vessel as before , whilst the flow of blood from behind was arrested ; and so the same series of phenomena was repeated .
It was thus seen that the phenomena attending the propulsion of lymph from the anterior lymphatic hearts of the frog into the veins at their posterior border , with which they communicate by a valvular opening , are essentially similar to those attending the propulsion of the lymph from the caudal heart of the eel into the caudal vein .
The vein at the posterior border of the heart , after receiving the lymph , turned behind the large transverse process of the third vertebra , and passed forwards along the inner to the anterior border of the heart , where it inosculated with the large blackish vein which runs up on the side of the neck .
This large blackish vein was described by Professor Johannes Miiller as issuing from the heart ; but the author has not found it to do so .
It is merely in close connexion , so that it is dragged backwards by communication of the movement of the heart in contracting , and recoils forwards into its previous position when diastole takes place .

