1 .
" O n the Electrical Phenomena which accomnpany Muscular Contraction .
" By Professor C. MATTEUCCI .
Comnlllnicated by Dr. SHAWPEY , Sec. R.S. Received January 7 , 1860 .
Dr. Radcliffe has recently communicated to the Royal Society some observations on the nature of the electrical phenomena accompanying muscular contraction .
It is known that M. du Bois-Reymond admits that the muscuilar current diminishes during contraction , and that he attributes the phenomena indicated by the galvanometer to the momentary predominance of currents due to the polarization of the electrodes of platinum over the muscular current .
In my last memoir on Electro-physiology , which was communicated to the Royal Society and appeared in the Philosophical Transactions for 1856 , I proved that these phenomena take place independently of the existence of secondary currenlts of the electrodes , and I hence colncluded , at least as regards the muscles of frogs , that during contraction there is a current , or rather an instantaneous electrical discharge , which takes a contrary direction to that of the relaxed gastrocnemius , and in general to that of the current which is found orn applying the extremities of the galvanometer to the extremities of the limbs of a frog .
In order to avoid the influence of secondary polarity , 1M .
du BoisReymond , and after him several other German pliysiologists , have thought it expedient to contract and tetanize the gastrocnemius before closing the circuit of the galvanometer ; the deviation thus obtained is feebler than that which is due to the current of a muscle in repose , but never in a contrary direction to that due to this current .
I have already remarked* that this result accords with that which is obtained by the ordinary experiment , in which the muscular current is in circulation previously to the contraction of the muscle .
In fact , we know that by continuing to keep the muscle in contraction , above all when the muscle remains tetanized , the electric phenomenon accompanying contraction ( the effect of which is to produce a deviation of the needle in a contrary direction to that of the current of a relaxed muscle ) becomes gradually less intense as the contractions are more and more feeble .
The method employed by Dr. Radcliffe is the same as that which I followed in my latest experiments ; that is , he made use of amalgam-nized plates of pure zinc as electrodes , immersed in a neutral solution of sulphate of zinc , and after having aseertained that there was nothing to fear from the effects of secondary polarity , he says that he finds that the needle deviated by the muscular current descends , during contraction , towards zero , but only more slowly than it would have done had the circuit been opened .
Dr. Radcliffe next examines another of my experiments , in which , instead of placing a yastrocnemius in the circuit , I employ a thigh cut transversely at the upper extremity , so that the needle remains deviated in a contrary direction to that of the gastrocnemius .
In this arrangement of the experiment , when contraction is produced , the deviation of the needle increases , which is perfectly in accordance with the idea that during contraction a muscular current is developed in a contrary direction to the current of the relaxed gastrocnemius .
Dr. Radcliffe attempts to explain this result by supposing ( if I rightly understand his idea ) that during contraction the contacts with the electrodes are deranged so as to facilitate the passage of the current of the relaxed muscle .
Being unwilling to remain in doubt as to the nature of the electrical phenomena of muscular contraction , I have of late repeated and varied my experiments .
As to Dr. Radcliffe 's first remark , I shall only observe that in the principal experiment the needle does not merely move slowly towards zero during contraction , but is seen , during the first contractions , especially when the frog operated on is vivacious , to move rapidly down to zero , to oscillate , to pass to the opposite side , and sometimes even to remain fixed , while thus deviated , for a very short interval of time .
This result , which is easily obtained and can be verified without difficulty , is the same , whether the electrodes are of platinum , like those employed by M. du Bois-Reymond , or of zinic .
It is easy to understand that , in order to succeed in these experiments , it is desirable that the needle should be as little deviated as possible before the contractions : this object is best ensured in the following way:-I prepare the frog by reducing it to two thighs , leaving a single lumbar nerve in order to obtain contractions in one of the thighs .
Instead of saturated solution of sulphate of zinc , I employed a weak solution of this salt , in order to avoid any alteration of the surface of the muscles ; and finially , in order to maintaill exactly the same points of contact between the two electrodes and the two near points of the middle portion of the thigh , I employ two fine woollen cords or two thin strips of card-board fixed with sealing-wax on a plate of glass and soaked in the same solution .
The experiment is made by applying the glass plate with a certain pressure on the thigh , so that the two cords on one side touch the thigh , and on the other are placed in contact with the cushions of flannel or card-board which are immersed together with the electrodes , according to the method followed by M. du Bois-Reymond .
I think it useful to describe in a few words a little apparatus which affords a good deal of facility for making these experiments .
It consists in a small square block of wood , with a cavity deep enough to receive the electrodes and the cushions .
It is hardly necessary to say that this cavity is coated with a varnish of sealingwax and divided in the middle by a glass plate .
Another cavity in the same block serves as a recipient for the two thighs ; the sciatic nerve extends beyond the block , and rests on two platinum wires which communicate with the pile or with the electro-magnetic machine .
The communication between the thigh and the electrodes is established by means of the glass plate in the manner above described , that is , I press this strip of glass slightly on the middle of the thigh on one side , and at the same time the extremities of the two woollen cords come to rest on the cushions .
The movements of the needle are observed through a telescope ( lunette ) .
I have repeated this experiment thirty or forty times .
Sometimes , and this case is the most frequent , the first deviation produced by the muscle in repose is directed in the same sense as that of the current of the gastrocnemius ; sometimes the current is null , or almost null ; sometimes , and this case is the most rare , the deviation is in a contrary direction , and this occurs most frequently in operating on the hinder portion of the thigh .
In all these experiments , the moment that the thigh begins to contract , the needle moves in a constant direction ; the deviation which intervenes is greater or less according to the force of the contraction , and indicates constanitly a descending discharge or currenit of extremely short duration , which traverses the thigh in the direction of the ramification of the nerves , and in a contrary direction to the current of the gastrocnemius .

