13 ~M ~PLK C 11 ~ 12 G R~IHL B 14 FDWYV ~ A X T N A bb 23 P H A NK 24 E 25 gggg 26 h F~ D Some new Observations upon the parts and use of the Flower in Plants .
By Mr Sam .
Morland .
THe nice and curious Texture of the Flower and its Furniture , obvious to common view , hath invited and employed the enquiries of many Learned and Sagacious Persons .
But since these noble Searchers into the History and Operations of Nature , do n't seem so happily to have reached her design in this case as in many others , it is hoped the Ingenious will not disdain a new attempt to account for the Fabric and use of these parts ; whereby the propagation of Vegetables will be rendered more intelligible , and the ways of Nature appear more harmonious , and of a piece .
It hath been long ago observed , that there is in every particular Seed a Seminal Plant conveniently lodged between the two Lobes which constitute the bulk of the Seed , and are designed for the first nourishment of this tender Plant .
But the admirable Dr Grew , to whose generous Industry and happy Sagacity we are indebted for the best improvements of this part of Knowledge , is the only Author I can find , who hath observed thet the Farina ( or fine powder which is at its proper season shed out of those Thecae or Apices Seminiformes , which grow at the top of the Stamina ) doth some way persorm the office of Male Sperm .
But herein I think he falls short , in that he supposes them only to drop upon the outside or the Uterus or Vasculum Seminale , and to impregnate the included Seed by some spirituous emanations or energetical Impress .
That which is now subjected to the disquisitions and censure of such whose exquisite skill doth constitute them Judges of such Performances , is whether it be not more proper to suppose that the Seeds which come up in their Animals Involucra , are at first like unimpregnated Ova of Animals ; That this Farina is a Congeries of Seminal Plants , one of which must be conveyed into every Ovum before it can become prolific ; That the Stylus in Mr Ray 's language , the upper part of the Pistillum in Mr Tournefort 's , is a Tube designed to convey these Seminal Plants into their Nest in the Ova ; That there is so vast a provision made , because of the odds there are , whether one of so many shall ever find its way into , and through~ so narrow a Conveyance .
To make this supposition the more credible , I shall lay down the Observations I have made upon the situation of these Stamina and the Stylus in some few species of Plants .
First , in the Corona Imperialis , where the Uterus or Vasculum seminale of the Plant stands upon the Center of the Flower , and from the top of this arises the Stylus , the Vasculum Seminale and Stylus together representing a Pistil lum .
Round this are planted six Stamina , upon the ends of each of these are Apices so artfully fixed that they turn every way with the least Wind , being in heighth almost exactly equal to the Stylus about which they play , and which in this Plant is manifestly open at the top , as it is hollow all the way .
To which we must add , that upon the top of the Stylus there is a sort of Tuft , consisting of pinguid Villi , which I imagine to be placed there , to catch and detain the Farina as it flies out of its Thecae .
From hence I suppose the Rain either washes it , or the Wind shakes it down the Tube , till it reach the Vasculum Seminale .
In Capri solium , or Honey-suckle , there rises a Stylus from the rudiments of a Berry , into which it is inserted to the top of the Monopetalous Flower , from the middle of which Flower are sent forth several Stamina , that shed their Farina out of the cases upon the orifice of the Stylus , which in this Plant is Villous or Tufted , upon the same account as in the former .
In Allium or common Garlic , there arises a Tricoccous Uterus , or Seed Vessel , in the center of which is inserted a short Stylus , not reaching so high as the Apices , which thus overtopping it , have the opportunity of shedding their Globules into its orifice more easily .
For which reason I can discern no Tuft upon this ( as in the former ) to insure their entrance , that being provided for by its situation just under them .
The Reader , I hope , will excuse me if I present him now with some such reasonings or reflections as the foregoing account doth suggest , and will support .
And I ca n't but hope to persuade those that are candid , that I have assigned to the several parts of the Flower I have mentioned their true and real use .
For nothing can be more natural than to conclude , that where a fine Powder is curiously prepared , carefully reposited , and shed abroad at a peculiar season ; where there is a Tube so planted as to be fit to receive it , and such care in disposing this Tube , that where it doth not lye directly under the cases that shed the Powder , it hath a particular Apparatus at the end to insure its entrance .
Nothing can be more genuinely deduced from any premises than from this it may , that this Powder or some of it was designed to enter this Tube .
If these Stamina had been only excretory Ducts , as has been hitherto supposed , to separate the grosser parts , and leave the juice designed for the nourishment of the Seed more reserved , what no d was there to lodge these Excrements in such curious Repositories .
They would have been conveyed any whither , rather than 'where there was so much danger of their dropping into the Seed Vessel again , as they are here .
Again , the Tube , over the mouth of which they are shed , and into which they enter , leads always directly into the Seed Vessel .
To which we must add , that the Tube always begins to dye when these Thecae are emptied of their contents ; if they last any longer , it is only whilst the Globules which enter at their orifice , may be supposed to have finished their passage .
Now can we well expect a more convincing proof of these Tubes being designed to convey these Globules , than that they wither when there are not more Globules to convey .
If I could now show that the Ova , or unimpregnated Seed , are ever to be observed without this Seminal Plant , the proof would arise to a demonstration ; but haivng not been so happy as to discern this , I shall recommend the enquiry to those Gentlemen who are Masters of the best Microscopes , and address in using them .
Tho in the mean time , I have made some steps towards a proof of this sort , and have met with some such hints as make me not despair of being able , in a short time , to give the World even this satisfaction .
For , not to infist upon this , that the Seminal Plant always lies in that part of the Seed which is nearest to the insertion of this Stylus , or some propagation of it into the Seed Vessel ; I have discovered in Beans and Peas and Phaseoli , just under one end of that we call the Eye , a manifest perforation ( discernible by the grosser sort of Magnifying Glasses ) which leads directly to the Seminal Plant , and at which I suppose the Seminal Plant did enter ; and I am apt to think that the Beans or Peas which do n't thrive , will be found destitute of it .
But I must now proceed to describe some other Plants , whereby it will appear , that there is a particular care always Tttttttt exer exercised to convey this Powder , so often mentioned , into a Tube , which may convey it to the Ova .
Now in Leguminose Plants , if we carefully take off the Petala of the Flower , we shall discover the Pod or Siliqua closely covered with an involving Membrane , which about the top separates into many Stamina , each sraught with its quantity of Farina , and these Stamina are close bound upon the .
Brush , which is observable at the end of that Tube , which here also leads directly to the Pod ; It stands not upright indeed , but so bended as to make near a right angle with it .
In Roses there stands a Column , consisting of many Tubes closely clung together , tho easily separable , each leading to their particular Cell , the Stamina in a great number planted all round about .
In Tithymalus , or Spurge , there rises a Tricoccus Vessel , that whilst it is small and not easily discernible , lies at the bottom till it is impregnated , but afterwards grows up , and stands so high upon a tall Pedicle of its own , as would tempt one to think that there were to be no communion betwixt this and the Apices , which he sees dying below .
InStraw-berries and Ras-berries , the hairs which grow upon the ripe fruit ( which I suppose may be surprising to some ) are so many Tubes leading each to their particular Seed , and therefore we may observe , that in first first opening of the Flower there stands a ring of Stamina within the Petala , and the whole inward Area appears like a little Wood of these Hairs or Pulp , which when they have received and conveyed their Globules , the Seeds swell and rise in a carneous Pulp .
I have observed , and can deduce the contrivance and administration of the parts in all the Plants I have observed , and I doubt not but if those Gentlemen whose penetration and leisure is greater than mine , shall think fit to apply their thoughts to this subject , they will be able to perfect what I have rudely hinted , and from this Theory when some such able hand shall have done it Justice , many Corol rollaries may be derived , which will let in light into many parts of Natural Philosophy .
I shall content my self at present with suggesting , that hence one would conclude that the Petala of the Flower were rather designed to sever superfluous Juices from what was left to ascend in the Stamina , then the Stamina to perform this office , either for them , or the unimpregnated Semina .
And observe the Analogy between Animal and Vegetable Generation , as far as was necessary there should be an agreement between 'em .
The Explication of the Figures .
FIgure the 23 represents a yellow Lilly .
A. the top of the Pistillum or Tube , at which the seminal Plants are supposed to enter , and thro which they are conveyed to the unimpregnated Seed in the Seed Vessel .
bbbbb b. The Apices Seminiformes , which when they are ripe open , and shed that Powder which enters the Tube at A. C. The place of the Seed Vessel at the bottom of the Tube , the Seed Vessel itself being concealed under the Leaf in this Draught .
Figure the 24th .
D. The Siliqua in a Flower of the Peakind .
E. The Tube which arises from the Siliqua , and conveys the Plants to it .
F. The MembranousCoat that involves theSiliqua laid open .
ggggg g. The Apices , which before the Membranous tegument is laid open , appear to rise from its edges , and by the Petala of the Flower are kept close upon the Orifice of the Tube , that they may conveniently shed their Farina into it .
Figure the 25th .
A French Bean represented sidewise .
Figure 26 .
The same opened .
h. The Seminal Plant .
i. A Perforation , at which , it is supposed , the Seminal Plant first entered .
Tttttttt2 V. Ex-

