XVII .
" Further Observations upon the Nebulm , with practical details relating to the Construction of Large Telescopes .
" By the EARL OF IOSSE , F.R.S. Received June 5 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the processeswchich were found best to answer in casting specula of 6-feet aperture have been described at some length ; and the precautions which were taken to prevent accidents during the progressive stages of manufacture .
Some information , which may perhaps be useful , has also been gathered from the memoranda kept on each occasion when the specula were ground and polished ; and the results of a long experience in the different manipulations have been put together in a practical form , so as best to enable the civil engineer to undertake the construction of large telescopes as a matter of business .
A few hints have been given on figuring and repolishing large surfaces , which the astronomer may find useful should his services be required in distant countries .
An attempt has been made to define the extreme limits to which telescopic vision may be pushed in this country , in answer to the question whether instruments of greater dimensions might not be advantageously constructed .
The peculiarities in the mounting of the large telescope are slightly noticed , and their advantages and disadvantages explained , as they have been brought out by experience .
This is followed by a selection from the observations made during a period of six years , accompanied by drawings of the more remarkable objects .
The principal results seem to be a large addition to the list of nebule with curved or spiral branches , and many new double and multiple nebulae .
A variety of objects have been also pointed out upon which the labour of a careful scrutiny will probably be amply 'repaid , with a similar instrument , even in this climate .
A still larger number have been marked off , which to save time may be passed by , unless some new views on Cosmogony should suggest sufficient motives for reobserving them .
A record has been made , which , to some extent , will be available hereafter for comparison with the heavens , and a few cases of suspectedl change have been noticed , where the evidence , however , is by no means conclusive .

