433 Carbon Dioxide Output during Decerebrate Rigidity .
[ Preliminary Communication .
) By H. E. Roaf , D.Sc .
Liverpool , M.D. Toronto .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received December 28 , 1910 , \#151 ; Read March 2 , 1911 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory , University of Liverpool .
) These experiments were undertaken , at suggestion of Prof. Sherrington , to attempt a determination of the amount of energy necessary for maintaining tonus in skeletal muscle .
The carbon dioxide output has been measured in decerebrate cats , and its amount compared with the amount given off by the same animal after procedures that abolish the tonus of the decerebrate preparation .
These procedures have consisted of decapitation and intravenous injection of curare .
The pulmonary ventilation was uniform throughout , as artificial respiration was carried out by means of a pump .
The animals were anaesthetised and decerebrated .
They were kept in a chamber , the air of which was moist and approximately at body temperature .
The ingoing air was freed from carbon dioxide , moistened and warmed .
The outgoing air was dried , and the carbon dioxide was absorbed by soda lime and weighed .
The period of experiment was divided into two halves of two hours ' duration each .
At the end of the first half the observations were interrupted for just so long as was necessary for the procedures required for the second half .
The results are expressed as a ratio , namely , the average percentage that the carbon dioxide output of the second half forms of the first .
Decapitation lowered the carbon dioxide output to 6 6'9 per cent , ( four experiments ) , the output in the previous two hours with the decerebrate preparation being considered as 100 .
The diminished output is mainly due to lowered metabolism of skeletal muscle , because in an experiment in which the cat had been eviscerated previous to the respiration experiment the second half gave a result 61T per cent , of the first .
It was thought possible that the diminished output after decapitation might be due to lowered blood-pressure , and cutting the splanchnic nerves on both sides did reduce the output to 90'7 per cent , ( two experiments ) .
The greater reduction in the decapitate experiments cannot be due to haemorrhage , as practically no blood was lost by decapitation .
434 Carbon Dioxide Output during Decerebrate Rigidity .
When the rigidity was abolished by curare the carbon dioxide output amounted to 100-8 per cent , ( four experiments ) .
Controls.\#151 ; As a guarantee of the correct working of the method during the two hours following decerebration , it may be stated that during a second period with the same decerebrate preparation the carbon dioxide output was 94-3 per cent , of the first period ( two experiments ) .
Although precautions were taken to maintain a constant body temperature it varied a little during some of the experiments .
If the " temperature coefficient " of carbon dioxide output be taken as lying between 2 and 3 for each rise of 10 ' C. , the fall of temperature practically accounts for the diminution of carbon dioxide output in the control and splanchnic , but not in the decapitate experiments .
In two of the curare experiments the internal temperature rose , and the carbon dioxide output also went up , thus the average shows no difference from the non-curarised condition .
These experiments indicate : ( 1 ) That the abolition of decerebrate rigidity by curare does not lower the carbon dioxide output , and hence the postural tonus requires very little expenditure of energy .
Parnas* has recently shown that maintained contraction of the adductor muscles of certain bivalves requires much less energy than the holding up of the same weight by vertebrate skeletal muscle .
( 2 ) That decapitation causes a marked fall in carbon dioxide output , which is not due to the abolition of tonus or fall of blood-pressure .
* ' Arch. f. d. ges .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 134 , p. 441 .

