Experiments to ascertain the coagulating Power of the Secretion of the gastric Glands .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. F.R.S. Communicated by the Society for promoting the Knowledge of Animal Chemistry .
Read January 21 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 96 .
] It has long since been observed , that the first step in the process of digestion is the conversion of the food into a jelly ; but whether this is effected by means of the gastric liquor alone , or by a joint operation of other secretions , has not been ascertained .
From Mr. Hunter 's experiments , it appeared that the same species of coagulation takes place in the same food admitted into the stomach of a great variety of animals ; and that in the calf 's stomach this power resided in the fourth cavity alone ; since the mucus taken from the surfaces of the first , second , or third cavities , had no such effect as rennet , which is prepared by infusion of the inner membrane of the fourth cavity .
The same inquiry is here pursued by the author , with a view to ascertain more accurately what part it is that possesses this property in the highest degree , by comparison of the effects of rennet prepared from different portions .
By this mode of trial no part of the hog 's stomach was found to coagulate milk , but that near the pylorus , where the gastric glands are situated .
Experiments were next made with rennets prepared from the crop and gizzard of a cock , from the stomach of a shark , the stomach of a salmon , and that of a thornback , all of which had the power of coagulating milk .
Other experiments were afterwards made , with the assistance of Mr. Hatchett and Mr. Brand , on the comparative powers of different parts of the same stomach , and the difference in various species of animals , the chicken , hawk , turkey , and calf .
In chicken the horny lining of the gizzard gave a firmer curd from milk than the cardiac portion of the stomach .
The dardiac portion of the stomach of the hawk was found more powerful than the same part of a common fowl .
The gastric glands were carefully dissected out from behind the membrane that lines the cardiac extremity of the stomach of a turkey ; and of these , forty grains , by weight , were taken , and their effect compared with an equal weight of membranous lining of the same cavity , an equal weight of membrane from the fourth cavity of a calf 's stomach in a recent state , and forty grains of dry rennet .
Since the last must have been prepared from about four times its weight of recent membrane , its effect was produced in much the shortest time .
The coagulation effected by the gastric glands took place nearly at the same time as by the recent calf 's stomach ; while that from the lining of the turkey 's stomach was ne4rly three times as long in producing the corresponding effects .
From these experiments , the author infers that the secretion from the gastric glands possesses the power of coagulating milk , and communicates that property to adjacent parts , by which it is imbibed .

