Address of the President , Sir J. J. Thomson , O.M. , at the Anniversary Meeting , November 30 , 1918 .
Since the last Anniversary Meeting we have lost , by death , from the Home List of Fellows \#151 ; Dr. A. M. Downing .
Sir Edward Fry .
Eev .
William Green well .
Prof. 0 .
M. Henrici .
Dr. G. J. Hind .
Prof. Bertram Hopkinson .
and from the Foreign List:\#151 ; Friedrich E. Helmert .
Dr. Downing had been Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac from 1892 to 1910 , and had done good service in Observational Astronomy .
By the death at the great age of 98 of the Eev .
William Green well , we lose a Fellow of forty years ' standing , a great collector and a prominent archaeologist .
Like Canon Norman , whose name also appears in this list , he was a Member of the Chapter of Durham Cathedral , which has thus lost in one year two Fellows of this Society .
Prof. Henrici was a great teacher of Mathematics and one of the pioneers in introducing modern methods of teaching that science ; he had been a Fellow of the Society for 44 years and had served on its Council .
Geology has lost by the death of Dr. Hind an eminent paleontologist , distinguished for his work on Fossil Sponges .
Prof. Bertram Hopkinson , the distinguished son of a distinguished father , was elected at an early age to the Professorship of Mechanism at Cambridge , as the successor of Sir Alfred Ewing .
He carried on and extended the work of his predecessor and made the School of Engineering at Cambridge , on both the research and educational sides , one of the most important in the Empire .
His own researches on the theory of the combustion engine and the pressure developed by explosives yielded important and interesting additions to our knowledge .
When the war began he gave up his work at Cambridge and threw all his energies into war work .
He developed great powers of organisation and took a leading part in the application of science to war , and in the later part of the war he had the control and direction of an important Canon A. M. Norman .
The Duke of Northumberland .
Sir Alexander Peddler .
Prof. H. G. Plimmer .
Sir Eobert Eomer .
Sir John Wolf e-Barry .
Anniversary Address by Sir J ' J. Thomson .
251 branch of the Air Service ; in the discharge of the duties of this office he was killed in an accident when flying .
He was at the time of his death a Member of our Council , and our Roll of Honour includes no one who rendered greater service to his country during the war .
By the death of Canon Norman we have lost a conspicuous example of the class to which Science in this country owes so much : the type of men like Darwin and Joule , who , while holding no professional scientific appointment , , have devoted themselves with conspicuous success to the advancement of science .
Few have contributed more than Canon Norman to our knowledge of the fauna of the sea , and both the British Museum and the University of Cambridge owe to him large and valuable collections .
The Duke of Northumberland , for many years President of the Royal Institution , had served on our Council and was ever ready to do all in his power to assist the progress of science and urge its importance for national prosperity .
Sir Alexander Peddler had taken a prominent part in educational and scientific progress in India .
He was first Professor of Chemistry and then Principal of the Presidency College , Calcutta , and Minister of Public Instruction in Bengal .
By the death of Prof. Plimmer we have lost a distinguished pathologist , an inspiring teacher , a man of great and varied gifts , social and artistic as well as scientific , which were freely placed at the disposal of the Society .
He was a regular attendant at our meetings , and no one will be more greatly missed .
In Sir John Wolfe-Barry we have lost a great engineer , who , as well as being responsible for great engineering enterprises , had by his work in connection with the Engineering Standards Committee prevented great waste of time and effort .
The success of this committee was very largely due to his wisdom and influence .
The Royal Society owes him much for the very active part he took in the management of the National Physical Laboratory .
He was one of the most valued members of the Executive Committee ; he took the greatest interest in the Laboratory , and his wisdom , generosity , and influence had much to do with its success .
Friedrich R. Helmert had been director of the Geodetic Institute at Potsdam , and Professor of Higher Geodesy in the University of Berlin since 1885 .
He had made important observations with von Sterneck 's invariable pendulum on the variations of gravity , and used these and the deviation from the vertical to find the shape of the earth , the constitution of its crust , and the formula connecting the intensity of gravity with the latitude .
He was the author of an important work on the mathematical and physical theories of higher geodesy .
Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
The year which has passed since our last Anniversary Meeting has been the greatest and most momentous in the history of our country ; in it we have passed from the gravest peril to complete victory .
We join with a full heart in the thankfulness felt by all His Majesty 's subjects for the success which has been granted to the valour and devotion of his troops and the efforts of his people .
With the cessation of the war , problems arise which are certainly no less difficult than those produced by the war itself .
To repair the waste and heal , as far as possible , the wounds caused by the war , nay , even to be able to bear the burden of the vast debt which it has created , the country must produce on a much larger scale than it has ever done before .
How is this to be brought about ?
The number of workers has been sadly diminished ; the hours of work before the war were quite as long as is compatible with the health and happiness of the workers ; in fact , no considerable increase in production seems possible with the methods in use before the war .
I do not forget the magnificent contribution made by women to the work of the country during these years of stress , and it is quite possible that there may be a considerable permanent increase in the work done by women .
There are few , however , who would think it satisfactory that women should bear through the long years of peace to which we look forward the heavy burden they have shouldered during the war , and no one would regard an increase in the burden on women as a tolerable solution of our difficulties .
But though the amount of labour cannot be very materially increased , it is certain that it can be made more efficient , and that with the same amount of labour more can be produced .
This can be done by greater application of scientific methods to industry .
It is gratifying that the Government realised the importance of this at an early stage in the war , and by establishing the Advisory Committee of the Privy Council for Scientific and Industrial Research have created a department which is now organised and active , and to which we look forward with hope and confidence .
But , for this work of reconstruction to be adequate , something more than the creation of a new department is necessary .
Sympathy with , and an intelligent appreciation of , the importance of Science in this work is required through all the Government departments , civil and military , in the country .
It is unfortunate that in these departments the number of permanent officials who have received the training which would ensure this appreciation is very small , and I venture to call attention to the recommendation in the report of the Committee on the Position of Science in Education that steps should be taken to introduce into the Civil Service , at a later age than is possible on a scheme based solely on competitive examination , men who have had training i Anniversary Address by Sir J. J ' .
Thomson .
253* in Science and experience in Research , and who would be able to represent efficiently in the various offices this fundamentally important side of Government activity .
To give a training in science to all who will need it for the work of reconstruction will increase the strain on the universities at a time when , some of them are faced with a difficulty which will soon become acute .
In not a few of our universities , especially the older ones , the stipends of many of the teachers come from endowments which yield incomes of fixed value ; but now , and there seems no chance of any immediate improvement in this respect , money has not much more than half the value it had before the war ; the salaries of the teachers were certainly never excessive , they are quite inadequate under present conditions .
In some way or other increased help must be given to the universities if they are to maintain their efficiency .
To increase the resources and equipment of the universities would , I think , be the most effective way of aiding research in pure science .
If the grants for this have to come from a fund which has also to provide those for industrial research , there is , I think , no inconsiderable danger that the latter may be regarded as the more urgent , and that the claims for pure science may be crowded out .
To pass on to another point , unfortunately we cannot yet assume that war will be impossible in the future , and that an army and a fleet are luxuries that we shall be able to do without .
If our army or our fleet is to be effective , it must not be behind others in its equipment with the application of science to war .
In the course of the present war , however , practically all such applicati6ns have been disclosed , so that all countries are at present in this respect on the same level , and unless we continue our researches we shall be left behind .
The experience of the war has shown us the importance of science , and we have seen how the most unexpected and unexplored branches of science have furnished methods which have been of critical importance .
Now , a large number of men with scientific training have been working during the war on the application of science to naval and military purposes , some of these have done remarkably well , and know the kinds of problems that have to be solved and the limitations imposed by service conditions .
It would be deplorable if all this knowledge should be wasted .
It seems to me most important to establish for each service research departments for promoting applications of science to that service .
In the laboratories of these departments new methods would be sought for and investigated until their peculiarities were thoroughly understood ; they would then be handed over to the technical departments of the services , who would carry the thing from the Anniversary Address by Sir JJ ' Thomson .
stage of what might be called a piece of laboratory apparatus to that of an instrument which would stand the wear and tear of service conditions .
They would also carry on experiments until the difficulties of manufacture had been so thoroughly overcome that this was a matter of routine .
In peace time it would not be necessary to manufacture in any quantity , but when war came and they were wanted they could be made without delay .
Officers in the service with special scientific aptitude might at some stage or stages in their career pass some time in such a pioneering laboratory .
This would not only improve their own knowledge , but would tend to diffuse a scientific spirit through the service and make it more ready to welcome new ideas .
But for this to happen I am convinced that each service should have its own establishment .
Many of the services , the Navy for example , would not , I feel sure , make much use of , or be much influenced by , large establishments for general scientific research , whereas if they had one which could be looked upon as an integral part of their own organisation , it would , I think , have a good chance of success .
The Copley Medal is awarded to Hendrik Antoon Lorentz , For .
Mem. R.S. Lorentz is generally recognised as one of the most distinguished mathematical physicists of the present time .
His researches have covered many fields of investigation , but his principal work deals with the theory of electrons and the constitution of matter considered as an electrodynamic problem .
When Zeeman had discovered the effect of magnets on spectroscopic lines , he perceived at once the theoretical bearing of the effect , which led to the discovery of the circular polarisation of the components of the lines split up by magnetic force .
Lorentz 's name is also associated with that of Fitzgerald in the independent explanation of the Michelson-Morley effect , from which far-reaching consequences have been derived .
An important optical relationship between the density of a medium and its index of refraction ( independently by L. Lorentz ) was published in 1878 , and he has been an active and fruitful investigator ever since .
A Royal Medal is awarded to Prof. Alfred Fowler .
Prof. Fowler 's investigations have been in the main on spectroscopy , and one of his specialities has been the identification and reproduction of celestial spectra in the laboratory .
His extraordinary success in identification of this kind is attributable in part no doubt to a special intuition , but also to a great and laboriously acquired knowledge of detail .
For instance , the origin of the bands dominating the spectra of stars of Secchi 's third class remained a mystery for many years .
Fowler showed that they were due to titanium .
Anniversary Address by Sir J. J* Thomson .
oxide .
He accounted for many of the band lines in the sunspot spectrum , by showing that they belonged to " magnesium hydride , " and several other instances of scarcely less importance might readily be given .
Another important branch of his work is connected with spectrum series .
The lines of many elements which appear in the arc spectrum have long-been classified into series , and empirical relations have been obtained between the position of a line in the series and its frequency of oscillation .
Those lines which are characteristic of the spark , and require higher stimulation , were not included in the scheme .
Fowler was the first to show that the spark lines form series at all .
For this purpose he had first to work out experimentally the conditions for obtaining an adequate number of lines belonging to these series .
Helium and magnesium were the elements chiefiy studied .
It was found that the spark line series could be represented by formulae similar to those which hold good for the arc lines , but with a four-fold value of the universal constant holding for the arc line series of all the elements .
Apart from these investigations , leading to results so simple and definite , there is much descriptive work on spectra standing to the credit of Prof. Fowler and his pupils , which is highly appreciated by specialists for its accuracy and technical value .
It must never be forgotten that the accumulation of material of this kind is indispensable for theoretical progress .
Finally , reference may be made to the ungrudging help which Prof. Fowler has given to colleagues working on somewhat different lines , when their work has had contact with his .
A Royal Medal is awarded to Prof. Frederick Growland Hopkins .
Prof. Hopkins was among the very earliest , if not actually the earliest , to recognise and announce that minute quantities of certain bodies , whose nutritive value had hitherto been unsuspected , exert an enormous influence upon growth and upon normal adult nutrition .
He showed that without these accessory factors\#151 ; vitamines\#151 ; a diet otherwise full and seemingly complete , is incapable of allowing growth , and even of maintaining body weight or life .
He has also made important researches into what may be styled the determination of the specific nutritive values of individual main components of the protein molecule ; he has , for example , showed that when , from a certain diet which was proved to maintain nutrition satisfactorily , the two amino-acids , arginine and histidine , were together removed , the diet , though amply sufficient in energy and fully assimilable , failed to maintain life .
More recently Hopkins has attacked the question whether an animal 's life 256 Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
can be maintained under the condition that in place of protein or of the entire set of amino-acids constituting protein , a limited few of the several representative types of these constituents are provided in the diet .
He shows that when , instead of the eighteen different amino-acids composing the protein , five only are administered , death rapidly ensues if those five be selected from the simpler aliphatic components , e.g. , leucine , valine , alanine , glycine , and glutamic acid , but that , on the other hand , nutrition and life are satisfactorily maintained , at least for a considerable period , if the five amino-acids given be chosen from the more complex types , such as tyrosine , tryptophane , histidine , lysine and cystine , which experiment has shown to lie outside the range of the synthetic power of the animal body .
Most of Hopkins ' researches have been conducted and published in conjunction with pupils , and it seems not too much to say that no laboratory in this country can more than his claim to have become a leading school of work and idea in regard to animal chemistry .
The Rumford Medal is awarded to Dr. A. Perot and Prof. Charles Fabry .
Messrs. Perot and Fabry have introduced a new method of measuring wave-lengths by an ingenious method of utilising the luminous rings formed by interference between two reflecting plates .
Their researches have proved of fundamental importance:\#151 ; ( 1 ) In comparing accurately the wave-lengths of different spectroscopic lines with that of some standard line .
( 2 ) In comparing directly the wave-length of the standard line with that of the standard unit of length .
This comparison has confirmed in a remarkable way the previous measurement of Michelson , whose method is less direct and more liable to certain errors .
The independent confirmation thus obtained has therefore placed the subject on a much firmer basis .
* The Davy Medal is awarded to Prof. F. Stanley Kipping .
Prof. Kipping has worked with distinction during the past 30 years on a great variety of problems connected with organic chemistry , involving fatty acids , derivatives of hydrindone , camphoric acid and its halogen compounds , the 7r-derivatives of camphor , racemism and pseudo-racemism , derivatives of quinquivalent nitrogen , organic compounds of silicon , including derivatives having optical activity due to the asymmetry of the silicon atom .
The Darwin Medal is awarded to Dr. Henry Fairfield Osborn .
Dr. Osborn 's chief work has been in palaeontology , and , in connection with it , he has organised many collecting expeditions to the early tertiary rocks of i Anniversary Address by Sir J. J. Thomson .
257 the West .
One of the results of his work is the more precise determination of the relative ages of the extinct mammals in North America , and that has led to a correlation between the order of succession of the Mammalia in Europe and in America .
A good deal of this work was summarised in his book , ' The Age of Mammals in Europe , Asia and North America/ published in 1910 .
In 1900 Osborn had come to the conclusion that the common ancestors of Proboscidia , Sirenia and Hyracoidea would be found in Africa ; and the correctness of this view has since been confirmed by Dr. Andrew 's discoveries in the Egyptian Fayum .
Amongst the more important of Osborn 's contributions to our knowledge of extinct Yertebrata are his memoirs on the Rhinoceroses , the Horses , the Titanotheres , and the Dinosaurs .
In addition to all the work he has done personally , Prof. Osborn has had a wide and most beneficial influence upon biological research in North America , and he has produced a flourishing school of younger vertebrate palaeontologists .
The Hughes Medal is awarded to Mr. Irving Langmuir .
Mr. Irving Langmuir is a distinguished worker in the physics and methods of production of high vacua .
He has studied the vapour pressure of platinum and molybdenum , by heating fine wires in vacuo and noting the loss of weight .
He has investigated the speeds of chemical reaction of different gases on various metals at very low pressures .
He has investigated the dissociation of hydrogen and its apparent abnormal heat conductivity , and the dissociation of chlorine and oxygen ; also the chemical activity of dissociated hydrogen .
His work on the emission of electrons from hot metals in high vacua led to the evolution of the " kenotron " and " pliotron , " and of the " half-watt " lamp .
His determination of the melting point of tungsten is generally accepted .
Much of his work , such as the investigation of the cause of blackening of tungsten lamps , is of commercial as well as of academic scientific value .

