438 Prof. W. C. Williamson .
[ Mar. 14 ?
March 14 , 1889 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read\#151 ; I. " On the Organisation of the F ossil Plants of the Coal-measures ; Part XVI .
" By W. C. Williamson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester .
Received March 5 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) In this memoir the author first calls attention to detached observations made in his earlier memoirs relating to the manner in which a medullary axis is developed in the interior of each of the primary vascular bundles of the Carboniferous Lycopodiacae .
He then traces the changes undergone during the development of a small branch-bundle in Lepidodendron Harcourtii .
This is followed by a description of a small new species of Lepidodendron , which he named L. mundum , and in which the peculiar development of the medulla is clearly demonstrated .
In a second new species , named Lepidodendron , a peculiar and apparently early form of exogenous zone is shown to exist .
When describing , in his previous memoir , Part XI ( see Plate 49 , fig. II ) .
the stem now designated Lepidodendron fuliginosum , lie showed that , in it , we have an example of the most rudimentary and least perfectly developed form of an exogenous zylem yet seen amongst these Carboniferous Cryptogams .
In this example , but a few radiating laminae of vascular tissues make their appearance in the innermost cortex .
In their .
intermedium , now described , though these few laminae are represented by a continuous cylindrical zone of tracheids , and though the laminae are arranged in radial order , they are still imbedded in a mass of cellular tissue , much in excess of what constitutes the medullary rays in the higher types of Lepidodendroid organisation .
A fourth new species of Lepidodendron is described under the name L. Spenceri , in young states of which no medulla is visible ; but ia its place a number of vertically elongated cells and imperfectly 1889 .
] On the Fossil Plants of the .
lignified scalariform tracheids are seen , enclosed within an outer series of perfectly lignified ones .
Here we have obviously an example of the centripetal development of a vascular bundle , reminding us of what is the normal mode of growth amongst the bundles of all recent Lycopods .
A fifth new species , Lepidodendron , is also described : after which the author points out the differences between the mode of development of the cellular medulla of these exogenous Cryptogams , and that of the representative organ amongst the Dicotyledonous Exogens .
Amongst the ordinary Exogens the growing tip of a stem or branch is a mere aggregation of cells , which mass is soon separated into two zones , in addition to the formation of the epiderm , by the development within it of a ring of vascular bundles .
The cells enclosed within this ring become the medulla or pith , and those external to it constitute the cortex .
In this instance the cells about to form the medulla exist , prior to their becoming defined as a medulla by the first development of the vessels which enclose it , and which vessels will ultimately grow into a woody , or zylem , zone .
Such a pith subsequently undergoes but a very limited enlargement .
In most cases a time arrives when it grows less with age , and ultimately almost disappears ; but in the Lepidodendra , though the tip of each growing stem was , in the first instance , also a cellular mass , what is designated an axial solid bundle of vessels was developed in the centre of the new growth almost at its very commencement .
But it was only after this growth had made some progress , and the twig had become clothed externally with numerous leaves , that the first traces of a medulla began to appear in the centre of the bundle .
It is thus clear that the medulla of these Carboniferous Lycopods is not genetically homologous with that of an ordinary exogenous flowering plant .
ut the stage of growth of the stem at which this medulla first appeared has differed remarkably in various species of , a remark equally applicable to the first formation in them of a true exogenous zone .
The axial vascular medullary bundle expanded into a hollow ^ ]n^er *under the internal pressure of the growing medulla , W le |affer not only attained to considerable dimensions , but was h persistent organ .
This ring enclosing the medulla , supplied \#174 ; vascular bundles going to leaves and branches .
The author ^emonstrates that the branches are supplied with such bundles in two When the growing stem divides dicbotomously , which it does int^011^8^ Lycopods , the medullary vascular cylinder splits Ver , WO e9ual halves .
But , besides this mode , the author shows that of th reqtieiltly comParatively small segments are cut completely out and th vaacular cylinder , in which a gap is thus left where the bark ^ol lnee^ ' an{ ?
ulaT* segment thus detached develops , 440 Dr. G. Gore .
A Method of examining [ My * .
H , as it ascends through the hark , into a cylindrical bundle , in which in time , a medulla forms as before .
The author is inclined to believe that all these latter forms of bundles only supply short abortive lateral branches , which most probably supported Lepidostrobous fruits .
II " A Method of examining Rate of Chemical Change in Aqueous Solutions .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received January 11 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) This research supplies an outline of a method of examining chemical change , based upon the application of the " voltaic balance " to measuring the relative amounts of voltaic energy of electrolytes ( see * Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , pp. 151 , 294 ) , and the rate of chemical change is indicated by alterations in amount of such energy .
The author gives an example of two liquids , viz. , a solution W equivalent proportions of potassic iodide atid chlorine , and one ot chloride of potassium and iodine , which , although having the same ultimate chemical composition , are greatly different ( vizM ^ 3176 ) in voltaic energy , and in a moderate degree different m colour .
The latter of these is a nearly stable liquid , and does not readily a ter in chemical composition at 13 ' C. , whilst the former is extremely \#171 ; -stable , continually losing voltaic energy , and becoming are er colour at that temperature , until it nearly acquires the c emicWfcjBH position and properties of the other mixture .
From the results obtained it is concluded\#151 ; 1st , that the solution of equivalent proportions of potassic iodide and chlorine -composes spontaneously at 12 ' C. , with gradual formation o p ' chloride and liberation of iodine ; 2nd , that the change o c e composition is attended by considerable loss of voltaic .
^ 3rd , that more than six days are necessary to effect the comp ^ chemical change at that temperature ; and , 4th , that ter chemical change is much greater at the commencement o fogsic than towards its termination .
Further , that the solution o P ' ' | chloride and iodine increases slightly in energy during the m The influence of dilution , time , temperature , light , agita \#171 ; \gt ; * ^ mode of mixing upon the chemical change was examine .
\#166 ; found that the degree of dilation of the constituent hqui |arg\#169 ; lie potassic iodide and chlorine solution during the act of affected the amount of chemical change which occurred Ql ture , but with the solution of potassic chloride and iodine ^ be of the liquids had no such effect .
The effect of dilution appe

