Of the Infinity of the Sphere of Fixed Stars .
By Edmund Halley , L. L. D. R. S. S. THE System of the World , as it is now understood , is taken to occupy the whole Abyss of Space , and to be as such actually infinite ; and the appearance of the Sphere of Fixed Stars , still discovering smaller and smaller ones , as you apply better Telescopes , seems to confirm this Doctrine .
And indeed , were the whole System stem finite ; it , though never so extended , would still occupy no part of the infinitum of Space , which necessarily and evidently exists ; whence the whole would be surrounded on all sides with an infinite inane , and the superficial Stars would gravitate towards those near the center , and with an accelerated motion run into them , and in process of time coalesce and unite with them into one .
And , supposing Time enough , this would be a necessary consequence .
But if the whole be Infinite , all the parts of it would be nearly in aequilibrio , and consequently each fixed Star , being drawn by contrary Powers , would keep its place ; or move , till such time , as , from such an aequilibrium , it found its resting place ; on which account , some , perhaps , may think the Infinity of the Sphere of Fixed Stars no very precarious Postulate .
But to this I find two Objections , which are rather of a Metaphysical than Physical Nature ; and first , this supposes , as its consequent , that the number of Fixed Stars is not only indefinite , but actually more than any finite Number ; which seems absurd in terminis , all Number being composed of Units , and no two Points or Centers being at a distance more than finite .
But to this it may be answered , that by the same Argument we may conclude against the possibility of eternal Duration , because no number of Days , or Years , or Ages , can complete it .
Another Argument I have heard urged , that if the number of Fixed Stars were more than finite , the whole superficies of their apparent Sphere would be luminous , for that those shining Bodies would be more in number than there are Seconds of a Degree in the area of the whole Spherical Surface , which I think cannot be denied .
But if we suppose all the Fixed Stars to be as far from one another , as the nearest of them is from the Sun ; that is , if we may suppose the Sun to be one of them , at a greater distance theirDisks and Light will be diminished D 2 in in the proportion of Squares , and the Space to contain them will be increased in the same proportion ; so that in each Spherical Surface the number of Stars it might contain , will be as the Biquadrate of their distances .
Put then the distances immensely great , as we are well assured they cannot but be , and from thence by an obvious calculus , it will be found , that as the Light of the Fixed Stars diminishes , the intervals between them decrease in a less proportion , the one being as the Distances , and the other as the Squares thereof , reciprocally .
Add to this , that the more remote Stars , and those far short of the remotest , vanish even in the nicest Telescopes , by reason of their extreme minuteness ; so that , tho ' it were true , that some such Stars are in such a place , yet their Beams , aided by any help yet known , are not sufficient to move our Sense ; after the same manner as a small Telescopical fixed Star is by no means perceivable to the naked Eye .

