170 Prof J. Dewar .
[ Feb. 12 , .
II .
" Note on Electrolytic Experiments .
" By James Dewar .
M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received February 10 , 1880 .
Having bad occasion to employ the intermittent current of the de Meritens magneto-electric machine arranged for intensity in connexion with spectroscopic work , the following notes of electrolytic experiments made by means of it may not be without some interest .
The number of intermittent currents taking place in the circuit during the course of the following experiments may be taken as-about 300 per second , and as the amount of energy in circulation is very considerable , an examination of its action on electrolytes was of some interest .
Dilute sulphuric acid , of about 1 of acid to 6 of water , used as the electrolyte in a large circular glass vessel , gave the following results On placing two rather large platinum poles , each exposing a surface of about 32 square centims. , no decomposition took place , a few bubbles of gas came off at one pole for a short time , which soon ceased .
The current was proved to be passing by placing a telephone near the side of the glass vessel , and also by the rapid increase in the temperature of the acid , which very soon reached the boiling poxtiit .
The absence of decomposition was due to the rapidity with which the current in the de Meritens machine is alternated , the gases given off at each pole being rapidly superposed and combining immediately to form water .
Decomposition was immediately produced by making and breaking the current rapidly with the hand , or better still , by placing a large tuning fork in the circuit , to which was attached a copper rod which dipped in and out of mercury at every vibration of the fork .
When two poles were used , consisting of platinum wire , decomposition went on without intermission at both poles , but on the other hand , when one pole was a plate of platinum and the other a platinum wire , the mixed gases were given off at the wire pole only .
The spectrum of the platinum poles , viewed with a small direct vision spectroscope , was very complicated , showing the H and air lines .
Platinum wire of about *5 millim. in diameter used as one pole , -readily fused when held close to the surface of the liquid , and remained white hot when immersed below the surface , with a continual ejection of the particles of the fluid , and successive small explosions of the mixed gases .
Aluminium wire behaved in a remarkable way when used as one of the poles , the other pole consisting of a large surface of platinum .
1880 ] Note on Electrolytic Experiments .
On first plunging the wire beneath the surface nothing is observed ; almost immediately , however , it becomes intensely illuminated all over the surface .
The light seems to emanate from an immense number of points which look like lit up gems .
This appears to be due to the formation of oxide of aluminium , which offers a great resistance to the passage of the current and consequently becomes intensely heated , and is pierced or disintegrated at certain points , and this supposition seems to be confirmed by the absence of any incandescence of the wire when hydrochloric acid , caustic potash , or any other medium which dissolves the oxide as soon as formed , is used .
If another aluminium wire is substituted for the platinum plate , then either the one or the other becomes illuminated according to the extent of surface of metal immersed , but they are generally not illuminated at the same time , the largest surface always remaining dull ; gases are now freely given off , being chiefly hydrogen .
The luminosity of the aluminium wire becomes very much diminished :after a short time , as the wire becomes almost completely covered with a uniform layer of the white oxide , and is gradually eaten away .
The luminosity can again be produced by cleaning the poles .
The same .effects took place when dilute hydrochloric acid , or saturated chloride of sodium was substituted for the dilute sulphuric acid .
After the .current had passed for some time gas was given off at both poles .
The light evolved from the surface of the poles below the surface of the electrolyte was intensely white , and on spectroscopic ^examination , proved to be the characteristic channeled spectrum of .oxide of aluminium , first described by Thalen .
The characteristic metallic lines between the two H lines were faint .
On bringing a piece of thin foil aluminium as one pole near the surface .of the acid it is immediately fused , globules of the melted metal flying about in all directions ; the aluminium wire is also fused after a short time , and falls through the liquid in white hot globules .
Magnesium wire at one pole , the other being the platinum plate as before , gave an intense green colour below the surface , a spectroscopic .examination showing the combined spectrum of the metal and oxide .
It burnt on the surface of the liquid in the same manner as the aluminium , showers of melted metal being thrown off ; the action when a saturated solution of chloride of sodium was employed was , if anything , more intense .
Similar actions took place with other metals , such as copper and zinc .
A solution of chloride of sodium was rapidly decomposed , abundance of chlorine being set free , when a platinum wire was used as one pole , the larger platinum plate being used for the other .
A solution of iodide of potassium behaved in the same way , but was decomposed at a very much slower rate when both the poles were of large surface .
A saturated solution of sulphate of copper deposited hardly a trace of 1^2 Note on Electrolytic Experiments .
[ Feb. 12 , , copper , when the platinum plate and a thick platinum wire were used as the two poles .
Various modifications of these experiments may be made by employing different metals .
The intensity ourrent used with a saturated solution of nitrate of potash , has the power of engraving on glass , as described by von Plant .
The determination of the heat evolved from the Jahlochkoff candle-in the annular calorimeter formerly described , amounted to about 6,000 gram-units per minute , or in other words , it is about |th of the total radiation of the Siemens machine when the small resistance-of the electric arc is alone in the circuit .
On introducing into this circuit containing a Jabloehkoff candle the voltameter which was formerly used , and in which no decomposition , was apparent when used alone , the total radiation of the candle was very slightly diminished , but the cell showed intermittent bursts , of electrolytic gas just as when the tuning fork was used as formerly described .
This seemed to be always associated with any quality of intermittence due to the want of regularity in the action of the candle .
Assuming that the whole work of the intermittent current was exhausted first in electrolysis , and then in recombination of the separated electrolytes , and that recombination resulted solely in a. heating effect localised in the cell , then the elevation of temperature would be a measure of the chemical work done .
As , however , the amount of this heating is relatively small in comparison with the current circulating , we must suppose that a considerable portion of the energy of recombination is thrown into the circuit as a new electromotive force .
The chief interest in these experiments is the value of the de Meritens machine , as having many of the advantages from Plante's-secondary piles , and the facility and ease with which this power can be used .
Mr. Spottiswoode 's recent experiments have shown that the character of the arc obtained from the de Meritens machine is .
intermediate in qualities between that of the ordinary arc and that of the induction spark , and may be employed with great advantage in exciting the induction coil .
The use of .
it in spectroscopic work has-been fully detailed to the Society in conjoint communications with .
Professor Living .
The luminous discharge obtained below the surface of fluids shows another valuable use of the machine in connexion with this subject .

