1874 .
] On the Development of the Teeth Ophidia .
95 the base of the dentine-germ furnishes lateral prolongations , just as has been observed to be the case in man .
The dentine-organs conform closely with those of mammals ; the odontoblast layer is very distinct , and the processes passing from these cells into the dentine-tubes are often visible .
The enamel-organs consist only of the outer and inner epithelia , without any stellate intermediate tissue ; as , in some instances , enamel is certainly formed , the existence of the stellate tissue is obviously non-essential .
When a tooth is moving to displace its predecessor , its sac travels with it , remaining intact until the actual attachment of the tooth to the bone by ankylosis .
II .
" On the Structure and Development of the Teeth of Ophidia .
" By Charles T. Tomes , M.A. Communicated by John Tomes , F.R.S. Received October 5 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) Contrary to the opinion expressed by Professor Owen and endorsed by Giebel and all subsequent writers , the author finds that there is no cementum upon the teeth of snakes , the tissue which has been so named proving , both from a study of its physical characters and , yet more conclusively , from its development , to be enamel .
The generalization that the teeth of all reptiles consist of dentine and cement , to which is occasionally added enamel , must hence be abandoned .
Without as yet pledging himself to the following opinion , the author believes that in the class of Reptiles the presence of cementum will be found associated with the implantation of the teeth in more or less complete sockets , as in the Crocodiles and Ichthyosaurs .
The tooth-germs of Ophidia consist of a conical dentine-germ , resembling in all save its shape that of other animals , of an enamel-organ , and of a feebly expressed capsule , derived mainly from the condensation of the surrounding connective tissue .
The enamel-organ consists only of a layer of enamel-cells , forming a very regular columnar epithelium , and of a few compressed cells external to this , hardly amounting to a distinct layer ; the enamel-organ is coextensive with the dentine-germ .
There is no stellate reticulum separating the outer Shd inner epithelia of the enamel-organ .
The successional teeth are very numerous , no less than seven being often seen in a single section ; and their arrangement is peculiar , and .quite characteristic of the Ophidia , The tooth next in order of succession is to be found at the inner side of the base of the tooth in place , where it lies nearly horizontally ; but the others stand more nearly vertically , parallel with the jaw and with the tooth in place , ,the youngest of the series being at the bottom .
96 On the Development of the Teeth of Ophidia .
[ Dec. 10 , The whole row of tooth-sacs is contained within a single general connective-tissue investment , which is entered at the top by the descending process of oral epithelium , whence the enamel-germs are derived .
As they attain considerable length , the forming teeth , which were at first vertical , become nearly horizontal , resuming , of course , their upright position once more when they come into place .
The clue to the whole peculiarity of this arrangement is to be found in the extreme dilatation which the mouth of the snake undergoes .
The general capsular investment probably serves to preserve the tooth-sacs from displacement ; while , if the forming teeth remained vertical after they had attained to any considerable length , their points would be protruded through the mucous membrane when this was put upon the stretch in the swallowing of prey .
Just as the author has shown in a previous communication to be the case in the Batrachia and Sauria , the hypothetical " papillary stage " is at no time present .
From the oral epithelium there extends downwards a process which , passing between and winding around the older tooth-sacs , after pursuing a tortuous course , reaches the furthest and lowest extremity of the area of tooth-development .
Here its csecal end gives origin to an enamel-organ , and , while it does so , buds forth again beyond it in the form of a csecal extremity .
Thus at the bottom of this area of tooth-development there is a perpetual formation of fresh enamel-organs , beneath which arise corresponding dentine-organs , or papillae , if such they can be called when arising thus far away from the surface .
In essential principle , therefore , the formation of a tooth-germ is similar to that already described in mammals and other reptiles , the difference lying principally in the enormous relative length of , and the tortuous course pursued by , that inflection of the oral epithelium which serves to form the enamel-organs .
The attachment of the tooth to the jaw is effected by the rapid development of a coarse bone , which is not derived from the ossification of the feebly expressed tooth-capsule , but from tissues altogether external to it .
Nevertheless this coarse bone of attachment adheres more closely to the tooth than to the rest of the jaw , from which , in making sections , it often breaks away .
The base of the dentinal pulp assists in firmly binding the tooth to this new bone , being converted into a layer of irregular dentine .
This bone of attachment " is almost wholly removed and renewed with the change of each tooth .

