\#171 ; )(\gt ; Mi .
J. AV .
Swan .
On some Voltaic Combinations [ May 24 , It has long been known that the disease is most common in the dirty , ill-drained , ill-ventilated dwellings of the poor , and , even in records intended to prove the contagiousness of phthisis , there are few , if any , of transmission of the disease in clean , well-lighted , well-ventilated houses or hospitals , even those for consumption .
Long before Koch 's discoveries , and before the disinfection of sputum was practised as it is now , the conveyance of the disease , under these conditions , was recognised by many to be one of the rarest events .
If the results that we have obtained with sputum are confirmed by others , as we trust they will be , they will afford some explanation of these facts .
So far as they extend at present , they show ( 1 ) that finely divided tuberculous matter , such as pure cultures of the bacillus , or " tuberculous dust , " in daylight , and in free currents of air , is rapidly deprived of virulence , ( 2 ) that even in the dark , although the action is retarded , fresh air has still some disinfecting influence , and ( 3 ) that in the absence of air , or in confined air , the bacillus retains its power for long periods of time.* VI .
" On some Voltaic Combinations with a Fused Electrolyte and a Gaseous Depolariser .
" By J. AV .
Swan , M.A. Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received February 28 , 1894 .
It is well known that fused salts behave in many respects like electrolytes in solution , and that voltaic combinations analogous to well-known voltaic cells may be formed with fused electrolytes .
The experiments of Brownf have recently illustrated this subject in relation to the Daniell type of cell .
For various reasons it appeared to the writer desirable to ascertain the behaviour of a cell with fused electrolyte and a gaseous depolariser , and corresponding in this last particular to the Upward cell .
The following is chiefly a record of some of the experiments made in connection with this research .
A cell of this kind may be looked at from a theoretical point of view as follows :\#151 ; A rod of metal , M ( fig. 1 ) , is immersed in a fused chloride of the same metal , MCI , and a chemically inactive conductor , C , is also immersed in the fused salt ; when M and C are connected with an electrostatic volt-meter , the metallic chloride is immediately * A portion of the expenses of this research has been defrayed by a grant from the British Medical Association .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Froc .
, ' vol. 52 , pp. 75\#151 ; 91 .
1894 .
] with a Fused Electrolyte and a Gaseous Fig. 1 .
polarised , and an E.M.E. calculable from the beats of combination , M/ Cl = MCI , is developed .
If M and C are metallically connected , a momentary current passes , but the combination is immediately polarised by the opposing couple , formed by the cathion of the electrolyte M and the pole C. To prevent this polarisation , chlorine has to be supplied at this pole .
Complete depolarisation should occur if the pole C consisted of a solid rod of chlorine .
This is impossible , but gaseous chlorine , used as a depolariser , can be made to effect more or less complete depolarisation , and should , theoretically , yield as the result of its heat of combination with lead an E.M.F. of 1*7942 volts .
In experiments made with a view to realise as nearly as possible the ideal condition for preventing polarisation the cathode was always molten lead .
It was found that hard gas-retort carbon had very little action upon molten alkaline chlorides and on chloride of lead , at the temperature required for their fusion .
Carbon was , therefore , employed as the anode or conducting pole in most of the combinations .
The electrolyte used was either the molten chlorides of sodium and potassium mixed , or chloride of lead .
As there is a continuous formation of PbCl2 during the action of the cell , and as it is a good conductor , it alone was finally adopted as the electrolyte .
As a depolariser , chlorine gas was used .
Many experiments were made to find a suitable way of applying the chlorine .
The following are details of some of the most suggestive of them .
Exp. 1.\#151 ; A cell was constructed as shown in fig. 2 .
The arrangement consists of an outer iron vessel , with a stratum of molten lead 58 Mr. J. W. Swan .
On some Voltaic Combinations [ May 24 , Tig .
2 .
covering the bottom to some depth , over the lead is a layer of NaCl and KC1 previously fused , into which is immersed the lower and closed end of a carbon tube , which forms the + pole .
The mouth of the carbon tube is closed by a fire-clay lid luted on , and through which pass two small clay tubes for the inlet and outlet of chlorine .
The whole was heated in a small gas furnace .
A binding screw on the iron vessel , which served as a connection with the lead , was used as the negative terminal , and another screw fixed on a copper ring surrounding the carbon tube , served as the positive pole connection .
The first trial was made without chlorine .
Short circuited through 1,000 ohms the cell developed an E.M.F. of 0'3 volt .
A momentary current of more than one ampere was observed when the cell was short circuited through a low resistance ammeter .
Chlorine was then passed through the tubes inside the carbon pole , but no depolarising effect was observed , even when the chlorine had a slightly higher pressure than the atmosphere , yet the gas passed through the exposed sides of the carbon tube and through the cement at the top .
This experiment was repeated several times with carbon tubes of the smallest possible thickness , and always with the same result .
It is evident , therefore , that an absorption of chlorine similar to that which takes place in the Upward cell does not occur when a molten electrolyte of the kind employed in this experiment is used .
Exp. 2.\#151 ; As this method of applying chlorine was unsuccessful , another form of apparatus was adopted .
The poles were of the same material as in the previous experiment , but the carbon pole 1894 .
] with a Fused Electrolyte and a Gaseous Depolariser .
59 Fia .
3 .
was an open tube .
The electrolyte was a fused mixture of equivalent proportions of NaCl , KCl .
A porous pot was introduced in order to separate the products of electrolysis set free at the electrodes .
The chlorine gas was supplied through a clay tube , which passed down the centre of the carbon tube .
As before , an iron crucible was used as the containing vessel for the fused lead and the electrolyte , it also served as a means of electrical connection with the lead .
In relation to the depolarisation effect of the chlorine , which it was the principal object of the experiment to observe , the interfering action of the iron was found by comparison with porcelain to be practically nil ; this no doubt is a consequence of its becoming coated by local action with a film of lead .
The whole arrangement was heated in a reverberatory furnace .
When the electrolyte was perfectly fused , the element was short circuited through a volt-meter of 1000 ohms resistance .
An E.M.F. of 0*3 volt was observed , the outside current being from the carbon to the lead .
This was the E.M.F. after polarisation .
A current of chlorine was then passed through the earthenware tube ; while the current of gas was slow there was no effect , but when the speed of the issuing gas was increased until the gas passed in bubbles along the side of the carbon , alternately surrounding it with chlorine and electrolyte , the E.M.F. rose to 1*25 volt .
The action of the cell was then similar to a completely depolarised cell .
When short circuited through a low resistance ammeter , it produced a steady current of 1*0 ampere for three-quarters of an hour .
The potential difference between the poles was of course very small , while this current was passing , the exterior resistance being very small com60 Mr. J. W. Swan .
On some Voltaic Combinations [ May 24 , pared with the interior .
When , however , the circuit was opened , it almost instantly rose to 1 25 volt .
So far the experiments showed that , as chlorine is nearly or perfectly insoluble in fused chloride of lead , or in fused chlorides of sodium and potassium , it is necessary in this case that the surface of the carbon pole on which the cathion is deposited alternately exposed to the action of the gas and electrolyte .
Many experiments confirmed this conclusion .
The exposed surface of the carbon tube in this experiment amounted to only 10 or 12 scj .
cm , Exp. 3.\#151 ; As in the arrangement last described , the use of a porous pot and a clay tube was found to be objectionable , through the action of the electrolyte upon them , an arrangement was devised by which the use of the porous pot and tube were avoided .
The details are seen in fig. 4 .
The carbon tube serves as an electrode , and also for conveying the chlorine to the electrolyte .
To render it impervious to the gas , it was surrounded by a close-fitting porcelain tube .
This tube was closed at the top by a paraffined cork , through which a glass tube in connection with the chlorine supply was passed .
The lemainder of the apparatus was the same as in Experiment 2 , but Fio .
4 .
1894.J with a Fused Electrolyte and a Gaseous 61 without the porous pot .
This arrangement gave the following results .
The E.M.F. when short-circuited through a voltmeter ( 300 ohms ) gave 1*4 volt , the chlorine entering rapidly .
When short-circuited through 1 ohm , it gave a constant current of 06 ampere with a P.D. of 09 volt .
The rather large interior resistance of 1-3 ohm is due not to the electrolyte , but to the greater length of the carbon tube , and had contacts produced by the corrosive action of the chlorine .
No good results were obtained until the chlorine gas bubbled out of the carbon tube , thus realising the conditions before mentioned , as necessary for the production of any large electrical effects .
Exp , 4.\#151 ; With a view to obtain larger effects , another form of cell was tried , as shown in fig. 5 .
The carbon pole C consisted of a thin rod of electric light carbon , 5 mm. diameter and 15 cm .
long .
It was passed Tig .
5 .
through a cork fitted in a porcelain tube , 2'5 cm .
diameter .
A glass tube bent at right angles was passed through the same cork , to serve for the delivery of the chlorine .
The end of the carbon rod was a little short ( about 3 mm. ) of the end of the porcelain tube .
The containing vessel was a Berlin porcelain crucible , 7 cm .
diameter .
The conductor from the lead was an iron wire , protected from the action of the electrolyte by a surrounding porcelain tube .
The electrolyte was chloride of lead .
The whole was arranged as shown in fig. 5 .
When the chlorine issued from the porcelain tube , the necessary conditions for depolarisation were in a large degree realised , the contact between the electrolyte and the carbon being at times almost broken , 02 Mr. J. W. Swan .
On some Voltaic [ May 24 , and at other times the chlorine forming a nearly complete envelope round the carbon , these conditions following in rapid alternation .
The highest E.M.F. observed was T25 volt .
The largest current given was 0-9 ampere with a P.D. of 025 volt .
The current was fluctuating , owing to the varying conditions at the carbon pole .
Exp. 5.\#151 ; The following figure shows a construction almost identical with the last , differing only in a few practical details , occasioned by this cell being made larger than the last .
The porcelain tube previously used was replaced by an inverted porcelain crucible , having two holes drilled in the bottom ; the larger hole afforded a passage for the conductor from the carbon pole : through the smaller one there passed a porcelain pipe for the chlorine supply .
The carbon pole was composed of a disc of gas retort carbon , pierced with holes , as shown in the figure .
In the middle of the disc was screwed a tube of carbon , which passed up through the larger hole in the bottom of the crucible and was secured in this position by nuts of retort carbon .
The bottom of the carbon tube was filled with fused lead , into which dipped a thick copper wire that formed the positive pole connexion .
Fio .
6 .
The connexions between the carbon and porcelain were luted with a mixture of borax and fire-clay fused at a bright red heat .
The other vessel consisted of a short cylindrical plumbago crucible .
The fused lead was , as usual , on the bottom , connexion being made with it by means of a heavy open iron ring , with its free end turned up and bent over the rim of the crucible .
The internal resistance was small , owing to the improved contact of the leading wire with the carbon 1894 .
] with a Fused Electrolyte and a Gaseous 63 pole .
The electrolyte was fused PbCl2 .
The whole was heated in a ^as furnace .
When the electrolyte was fused , the chlorine was passed rapidly through , so that it issued from under the porcelain crucible .
The E.M.F. was then between 094 and 0 96 volt .
, and never rose hieher than 0 93 volt .
The lower E.M.F. was evidently due to the fact that part of the surface of the carbon pole was not subject to the action of the chlorine , but remained polarised by deposition of lead .
The behaviour was much like that of a constant cell with an E.M.F. of between 0 94 and 0 96 volt .
The method of observation was to alter the exterior resistance and then read the current and P.D. , then break the circuit and read the E.M.F. Calculated internal resistance .
P.D. ( In closed circuit ) .
9- E.M.F. P.D. ^ 9 ' / sfu Yolk Amperes .
Ohm .
0-26 120 0-06 024 10 0 007 0-62 40 0-08 076 1*26 016 072 1-75 014 072 215 0-12 0-66 2-50 012 From these observations it will be seen that the internal resistance was calculated , col .
3 , in order to find whether polarisation is greatest when a small or large current is taken from the cell .
From the results it is apparent that the internal resistance , and at the same time the polarisation , decrease when the current increases .
This kind of cell , therefore , differs from those iu which aqueous electrolytes are used , inasmuch as the polarisation decreases with increased electrical output .
The observations of P.D. and E.M.F. were taken almost simultaneously , and the vai-iation of resistance as the gas bubbles passed out was thus avoided .
As the internal resistance was very small the whole time , and remained almost constant during a variation of the current from 126 to 2o amperes , it may be said to be a constant battery , with an E.M.F. lower than the theoretical value .
The reason of this lower E.M.F. is probably due to some part of the large carbon plate being covered with reduced lead , thus forming an opposing couple of smaller capacity and lower resistance than the primary elements , its effect being to reduce the main current .
The E.M.F. of this opposing couple is of necessity the same as that of the main current , but , owing to its lower internal resistance , its P.D. is less ; if it were not so , the cell would yield no appreciable current .
This reasoning explains why the results obtained with small cells were better than those obtained with large ones .
Besides the expei'imeuts mentioned , trials have been made , with 04 Messrs. J. W. Swan and J. Rliodin .
Absolute [ May 24 , more or less success , of many other forms of tins combination , including some in which very porous hollow carbon poles were used , and through which the chlorine was forced , but the effects obtained were less than those recorded .
The research has proved that it is possible to form pyro-batteries of the Upward type , although it is extremely difficult to realise the conditions required for effective action .
In a future communication I hope to record the results of experiments made , with a view to utilise oxygen as a depolariser in connexion with cells with fused electrolytes .
YII .
" Measurements of the Absolute Specific Resistance of Pure Electrolytic Copper .
" By J. W. Swan and J. Rhodin .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received February 28 , 1894 .
At the beginning of 1893 it was resolved to make some very careful measurements of the specific resistance of pure electrolytic copper , drawn into wire without previous fusion .
Researches made during the latter end of 1892 had shown that the specific resistance of electrolytic copper varies considerably .
The resistance of about thirty wires of the same length and diameter , made from specimens of electrolytic copper , prepared in different ways in the laboratory , showed differences of resistance amounting to a maximum of T4 per cent. , both when in a hard and when in a soft or annealed state , and measured at the xsame temperature .
These preliminary measm-ements were made by means of a Wheatstone 's bridge , constructed for comparing the unknown resistances of short well-conducting wires with the resistance of a standardised platinoid wire , according to Thomson 's method .
The accuracy obtainable by this method was 0'25 per cent. The best specimens of wire were subjected to a further and still more accurate examination .
The measurements of the specific resistance and temperature coefficient of one of these wires , and of some wire made from the same copper , after undergoing a second electrolytic refining , form the subject of this paper .
It was resolved to make measurements giving an ultimate accuracy of 0T per cent. As they were intended to be absolute , the first problem was the determination of the exact dimensions of the wires to be measured .
The measurement of the length wras made by means of direct comparison with a standard metre rule ; that of the diameter was determined by the specific gravity method , which consists in finding the absolute weight of a known length of wire and its density or unit volume weight as determined from its.specific gravity , and then calculating its average diameter .

