Eu tecticResearch .
e 1 Similar curves can clearly be obtained where there is correlation to be taken into account .
For by making the change of variable 7 } \#151 ; a(\amp ; '-*- if ) , \#163 ; + V = / 3 -f ( .\#171 ; -'+\#187 ; /2 ) is turned into a normal surface with correlation , while c/ dx and 3/ 3y are linear functions of 3/ 3\#163 ; and 3/ 3 rj .
Eutectic Research .
No. 1.\#151 ; The Alloys of Lead and Tin .
By Walter Bosenhain , B.A. , B.C.F. , with P. A. Tucker .
( Communicated by Dr. B. T. Glazebrook , F.B.S. Beceived June 17 , \#151 ; Bead June 25 , 1908 .
) ( From the National Physical Laboratory .
) ( Abstract .
) Attempts to prepare pure eutectic alloys of known constitution led to the discovery of discrepancies between the authors ' experiments and the data on lead-tin alloys published by Boberts-Austen .
A complete redetermination of the equilibria of the lead-tin system was therefore undertaken , by both pyrometrie and microscopical methods .
Cooling-curves of the alloys taken by both inverse-rate and differential methods are given ; these , together with the microscopic data , lead to the equilibrium diagram shown in the figure .
This differs principally from that given by Boberts-Austen , * in that the eutectic point is placed at a concentration of 63 per cent , of tin instead of 69 , that the eutectic line towards the lead end of the series terminates at a concentration close to 16 per cent , of tin , and that a series of transformations ( along the line EFG ) have been found in the solid alloys near the lead end of the series .
The discrepancies of these results , as regards the eutectic composition , arise from the more delicate method employed in the present research .
While alloys within 1 per cent , on either side of the true eutectic composition show no detectable difference in freezing- or melting-point , the presence of small amounts of excess of either constituent can be detected by the microscope , and in this manner the composition of the pure eutectic has been ascertained .
As regards the solubility of tin in solid lead , it was found that the occurrence of the eutectic arrest-point in alloys containing less than 16 per cent , of tin * Roberts-Austen , 1 Fifth Report to the Alloys Research Committee of the Institutio of Mechanical Engineers , ' 1897\#187 ; Messrs. W. Rosenhain and P. A. Tucker .
[ June 17 , depended upon the rate of cooling ; by maintaining alloys at a temperature of 175 ' C. for periods up to six weeks , approximately complete equilibrium conditions can be attained , and the study of the cooling-curves and micro* \gt ; S + .
.8 31908 .
] Eutectic Research .
structure of such alloys has led to the conclusions embodied in the diagram .
These conclusions are much strengthened by the fact that the authors have succeeded in preparing alloys very rich in lead for microscopic examination by polishing with levigated oxide of chromium .
The transformation in the solid alloys along the line of the diagram has also been studied by means of cooling-curves of alloys , both when cooled direct from fusion and after prolonged heating at 175 ' C. ; a rough quantitative interpretation of the indications of these cooling-curves is given on the lines laid down in a recent paper on this subject.* The changes in i micro-structure associated with this transformation have also been studied , and for this purpose specimens of the alloys , after prolonged heating , were I quenched in liquid air from a temperature just above that of the transformation , and their structure was compared with that of specimens quenched in liquid air from temperatures just below the transformation point and also with others cooled very gradually to the ordinary temperature .
The i conclusion arrived at is that the transformation involves the rejection of tin i from the solid solution of tin in lead .
The evidence does not support the view * that the formation of a definite compound is involved , but indicates that the change takes place in the solid solution of tin in lead which passes from one [ modification ( / 3 ) to another ( a ) on cooling .
The reversal of this change is ' very gradual when the alloy is heated above the transformation temperature .
In the case of alloys containing less than 16 per cent , of tin , the transformation occurs at lower temperatures in the alloys containing least tin ; thus while the 16-per-cent , alloy undergoes the change on cooling to 159 ' C. , the alloy with 8 per cent , of tin passes through the change only I when cooled to 72 ' C. For still lower concentrations of tin the change could e not be observed , even when cooling-curves down to the temperature of liquid i air were taken , thus proving that the change in question is not simply due to j allotropy in lead , but that the presence of tin is essential to its occurrence .
* A further curious feature in connection with this change is that the lead-rich [ constituent of the eutectic does not take part in the transformation , land must therefore be regarded as retaining the / ?
condition in the meta-s stable form .
The non-transmission of the reaction from the free lead-rich [ constituent to that forming part of the eutectic is readily explained from I the micro-structure of the alloys , which always show the crystallites of this I constituent surrounded-by a sheath of pure tin , thus separating it mechanically I from the lead-rich constituent of the eutectic .
The chemical composition and constitution of the eutectic is deduced from H * Rosenhain , ' Observations on Recalescence Curves , ' Physical Society of London , I January 24 , 1908 .
VOL. LXXXI.\#151 ; A. Z Eutectic Research .
the equilibrium diagram , and its density as determined by the authors is compared with that of its two constituent phases ; there is a discrepancyi which is ascribed to the persistence of meta-stable in the eutectic ; this difference of density , as found from the density of the eutectic , and as determined directly , amounts to 0'08 , which is too large a difference to be ascribed to experimental error .
The volume composition of the eutectic is calculated and found to be T8 volumes of tin to 1 volume of the lead-rich ft body ; this indicates the great extent to which the tin is the predominating constituent of the eutectic .
The structure of numerous examples of the lead-tin eutectic is described and illustrated by a number of photo-micrographs ; the eutectic is found to consist of regions or grains , in each of which there is a systematic orientation of the laminations produced by layers of the two constituents .
Study of typical examples under oblique illumination and low magnification leads to the view that these grains are true spherulitic crystals , crystals having a regular radiating structure , and it is suggested that this structure is due to the manner in which the predominating constituent has crystallised , leaving the other constituent to fill up the interstices between the radiating dendrites formed by the first .
The microscopic features , at all events , preclude the view that the eutectic is an indiscriminate mixture of separate minute crystals of each of the two phases .
Finally , the authors describe some eutectic and other lead-tin alloys prepared by compression of powders of the constituent metals , and give photo-micrographs proving that the original particles persist unchanged in alloys prepared in this way , i.e. that there is no real flow or diffusion , at all events in the relatively short time for which these alloys have so far been under observation , even at temperatures up to the melting-point of the eutectic .
The authors express their indebtedness to Dr. R T. Glazebrook , F.RS .
, and to members of the staff of the laboratory in connection with the work described in the paper .

