The Affinity of Tmesipteriswith the 343 " The Affinity of Tmesipteris with the Sphenophyllales .
" By A. P. W. Thomas , M.A. , F.L.S. , University College , Auckland , New Zealand .
Communicated by Professor G. B. Howes , F.R.S. Received January 6 , \#151 ; Read January 23 , 1902 .
The peculiar fertile structures of Tmesipteris and Psilotum have given rise to much discussion as to their morphological nature .
The foliage leaves in Tmesipteris , as is well known , are simple , whereas the fertile structures are forked , that is , each has a stalk bearing leaf-like lobes , a bilocular sporangium or synangium being attached to the stalk just below the lobes .
Three views have been taken as to the nature of these fertile structures\#151 ; 1 .
The whole structure has been interpreted as a branch of the stem , being equivalent to a reduced Lycopodium spike .
The lobes , according to this view , will be leaves .
( Juraniyi , Stras-burger , Sachs , Goebel .
) 2 .
It has been considered as equivalent to a single leaf .
Brongniart and Luerssen compared it with a Lycopodium sporophyll .
Professor Bower , as the result of his investigation of the development of the organs of Tmesipteris , regarded it as a " single leaf with two lobes , bearing the synangium on its adaxial face."* He considered the synangium to be a septate sporangium .
3 .
Dr. Scott considers that an at least equally probable explanation is , that the synangium with its axis may correspond to the ventral sporangiophore of the Sphenophyllales .
t I propose to adduce evidence to show that whilst Professor Bower 's view that the whole fertile structure of Tmesipteris is equivalent to a single leaf is correct , Dr. Scott 's suggestion that the synangium , with its axis , corresponds to a ventral sporangiophore , is also correct .
Professor Bower speaks of the whole fertile structure as a sporangiophore , whereas Dr. Scott would restrict the term sporangiophore to the synangium and its axis , referring to the Sphenophyllales , in which sporangiophores spring from the upper surface of bracts as long pedicels , bearing one or more sporangia at their ends .
To avoid confusion , I propose to speak of the whole fertile structure as a fertile leaf or sporophyll , and will use the term sporangiophore in the sense of Dr. Scott and Mr. Seward .
The evidence I have to offer is derived from the study of the variations which occur in the sporophylls .
These variations are of striking * ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , 1894 .
f 4 Studies in Fossil Botany/ p. 499 .
Prof. A. P. W. Thomas .
character and abundant , and appear to place the matter in a very clear light , unless , indeed , we refuse to accept evidence drawn from any variations .
I should state here that Professor Bower has already used certain variations ( chiefly variations in the way of reduction ) of the sporophylls of Tmesipteris as evidence as to the nature of the synangium .
But with one partial exception he , apparently , did not observe the variations which I propose to describe here .
But the material available for his investigations is stated to have been of limited amount , and it is clearly in the native country of Tmesipteris , that the question can be investigated to the greatest advantage , for there the quantity of material available is practically unlimited , and the conditions under which the plants are growing can be best studied .
The variations now to be described may be roughly arranged in three categories\#151 ; 1 .
Sporophylls with repeated dichotomy and 2 or 3 synangia .
2 .
Sporophylls in which the synangium is not sessile but raised up on a stalk or pedicel .
3 .
Sporophylls in which the synangium is replaced by a leaf lobe of normal appearance .
1 .
A common variation of the sporophyll is that One of the branches forks a second time , a second synangium of normal form being carried just below the second fork .
That is , a single sporophyll carries two synangia , and there are three flattened leaf lobes .
A less common variation is for both of the branches of the first dichotomy to fork again .
The stalk of the leaf divides dichotomously into two branches , which are rather stalk-like in character ; each of these , after reaching a certain length , forks again , the branches this time becoming flattened and leaf-like in form ; the whole leaf thus terminates in four leaf-lobes or leaflets , of the same character as the two leaf-lobes of the commoner type of sporophyll .
There is a synangium not only at the first fork , but also at each of the forks of the second order .
The three synangia I are all of normal form and character , and may be of practically equal size .
It will be remembered that sporophylls and vegetative leaves * commonly alternate in zones on the same shoot .
Professor Bower J has stated that , on the whole , abnormalities in the sporophylls and synangia commonly occur at the beginning or end of ^fertile zone , % as if the abnormal condition might be referred to less perfect conditions of nutrition .
Whilst I have found this to be true for variations of reduction in the leaf-lobes or synangia , it does not apply to these cases in which the sporophyll shows a development in excess ; of the normal .
On the contrary , they occur rather towards the middle 1 of a fertile zone , often many together , and with neighbouring normal I The Affinity of Tmesipteris with the 345 sporophylls perfectly developed .
It would seem , then , as if the greater development of the sporophylls occurred when the nutritive conditions were most perfect .
May we infer that , if the nutritive conditions remained equally satisfactory throughout , the whole of the sporophylls would show repeated dichotomy ?
Professor Bower has observed that those abnormalities which occur most frequently in a given species will be those which are most worthy of consideration for morphological argument .
If we accept this statement as a reasonable one , the variations now under discussion appear to deserve serious attention .
For they occur with considerable frequency , as I will show ; and though we may , in a sense , apply the term abnormality to them , it is in a sense with which nothing of the nature of a pathological variation can be associated .
They are of healthy appearance , and occur in the most vigorous parts of the best shoots .
I have found as many as five or six sporophylls with repeated dichotomy in a single fertile zone , whilst shoots with three such sporophylls are fairly numerous .
In the course of half-an-hour 's search in the forest I can always count on finding several shoots with such variations .
But this applies only to those districts where favourable conditions for the growth of Tmesipteris are best realised ; in less favourable localities the variations may certainly occur , but not in such numbers .
It is probably not going too far when we assert that , when conditions are most favourable , the sporophylls of Tmesipteris normally show a repeated dichotomy .
I 2 .
In a second group of variations we find that the synangium , instead of being sessile on the petiole of the leaf just below the fork , that is , the point from which the leaf-lobes diverge , is raised up on a longer or shorter stalk .
I have found a considerable number of these variations , and they show a good deal of diversity .
Sometimes the synangium is carried up to a height equal to half the length of the synangium , and lies transversely to the axis of the whole leaf .
The two lobes of the synangium then appear to be balanced on the summit of the pedicel , hanging down somewhat , one on each side , so as to suggest a peltate sporangiophore .
In other cases the synangium retains its direction between the leaf-lobes , but revolves on a transverse axis , so that the longitudinal groove of the synangium , by which dehiscence takes place , faces outwards between the leaf-lobes , instead of looking rather towards the axis of the shoot .
One would think that the outward position would , on the whole , be more favourable for the dispersal of the spores .
| 3 .
In the third group of variations no synangium appears , though the leaf has otherwise the character of a sporophyll , and is forked .
Professor Bower has described , and I , too , have seen , many such sporophylls in which a minute scar appears in a position below the fork , I VOL. LXIX .
2 B Prof. A. P. W. Thomas .
doubtless representing an abortive synangium .
Professor Bower has also figured* a sporophyll , in which a long process arises in the place of the synangium .
The process in the figure , though long in proportion to its width , is still only half the length of the leaf-lobes .
This was interpreted as a correlative vegetative growth .
A greater amount of material has shown what the correlative growth may become .
I have found a large number of variations in which the growth reaches a greater development , until we get sporophylls in which the place of the synangium is occupied by a leaf-lobe of normal appearance .
There can be no mistaking the appearance of this leaf-lobe\#151 ; the form and structure of the normal leaf-lobe or leaflet of a sporophyll are exactly reproduced even to the details of the peculiar mucronate termination .
What is the natural conclusion from the appearances described t Is it not that the synangium of Tmesipteris is morphologically equivalent to a ventral leaf-lobe 1 Or some writers would possibly prefer to say that the structure which carries the sporangium ( or sporangia ) is a ventral leaf-lobe , the sporangia being held to be organs sui , which may be carried in various positions , in the present case on a leaf-lobe.* If so , we must suppose that the leaf-lobe in the normal synangium is reduced to the base , and probably the axis of the synangium .
It should be added that often two or three of the sporophylls at the distal end of a fertile zone may show this vegetative development of the ventral leaf-lobe , suggesting that after the primordium of the sporophyll has been developed to a certain stage , the particular nutritive conditions which lead to reproductive development have failed , and that there has accordingly been a relapse to the vegetative condition .
Hence the primordium of the synangium has developed into a leaf-lobe of the ordinary structure .
There is little difficulty in stating the character of the variations to which Tmesipteris is subject , but to attempt to apply these for the purpose of tracing the affinities of the plant is a more hazardous matter , and there is doubtless room for differences of opinion .
Tmesipteris and its ally Psilotum have usually been classed with the Lycopodinse , though it has been admitted that they are rather outlying members of the class .
It has been the difficulty in reconciling the sporangium-bearing structures of the Psilotese with the usual simple sporangia and sporophylls of the typical Lycopodinse , which has caused so much morphological discussion as to their nature .
We are led , therefore , to inquire in what other group of Pterido-phytes do we find dichotomous division of leaves , sporophylls more elaborate than vegetative leaves , several synangia or groups of sporangia on a single sporophyll , and the presence of a special ventral lobe of the leaf as sporangiophore .
* ' Phil. Trane .
, ' B , 1894 , Plate 52 , fig. 152 .
The Affinity of Tmesipteris with the 347 Leaving on one side obvious comparisons as regards some of these characters with certain ferns , I would venture to suggest that it is in the extinct Sphenophyllales that we find the closest morphological parallel with the sum total of the characters now shown for Tmesipteris .
The leaves in Sphenophyllum were frequently hetero-morphic .
A common type of leaf was a wedge-shaped one , but it is important to notice that the veins were dichotomously divided , and the margin of the leaf frequently more or less notched or lobed in accordance with the venation .
But the leaves varied much in form , from such as have been described to leaves with a lamina dissected into dichotomously branched linear segments , or to simple narrow uninerved leaves.* In S. cuneifoliumthe upper cone-bearing branches show the finely cut foliage , whilst in some specimens entire and much divided leaves occur mixed together in the same specimen .
# But it may be objected that such leaves are foliage leaves , whereas it is the sporophylls which alone are forked in Tmesipteris .
The sporophylls of Sphenophyllum formed strobili , as a rule sharply marked off from the foliage-bearing regions , but in S. trichomatosum the cones were very lax , and not sharply marked off.f In the well-known form S. Dawsoni , the bracts were simple , but in others they were forked .
In S. tenerrimum the cones were small , but the bracts narrow and dissected .
1 The force of the comparison with the Spenophyllales is of course intensified if it be admitted that the variations recorded above for Tmesipteris prove that the synangium is equivalent to a sporangio-phore with its sporangia .
Kin Sphenophyllum Dawsoni each bract carried two sporangiophores on its upper surface , each sporangiophore bearing a single pendulous sporangium .
\#166 ; But in the Bowmanites each sporangiophore hears two sporangia .
If we , may trust the variations recorded under Group 2 above , we have here a surprisingly close correspondence between Bowmanites and Tmesipteris .
But some species of Sphenophyllum present evidence of as many as four sporangia to a single sporangiophore.- I have occasionally found trilocular synangia in Tmesipteris , as , indeed , others have done j whilst in Psilotum the number of loculi , though normally three , may vary from two to five .
\#187 ; Perhaps one of the most interesting forms for comparison with Tmesipteris is the cone described by Scott under the name of Cheiro-iltrobus , and shown by him to belong to the Sphenophyllales , J ^ In Cheirostrobus the sporophylls are very elaborate j each is divided nearly to its base into three lower sterile segments and three upper Sertile segments or sporangiophores .
May we compare a sporophyll of * Seward , ' Fossil Plants , ' vol. 1 , p. 391 .
f Scott , ' Studies in Fossil Botany , ' p. 105 .
$ Scott , ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , 1897 .
Prof. A. P. W. Thomas .
Tmesipteris with three synangia or sporangiophores , with the sporo-phyll of Cheirostrobus 1 There is , indeed , considerable difference in details ; thus the division of the sterile segment in Cheirostrobus is palmatifid , whereas the division of the Tmesipteris sporophyll is dichotomous .
But this difference is probably of little importance , for in any case we cannot expect to show more than a general correspondence .
It is much that we can show in each case an elaborate sporophyll , with three ventral sporangiophores .
Cheirostrobus , although a synthetic form , had probably the most complex cone known amongst the Pteridophytes , and this was doubtless specialised in some particulars .
It may be added that the number of sterile segments and sporangiophores in Cheirostrobus might be reduced to two , and we may compare this with those variations of the sporophylls of Tmesipteris in which only two sporangiophores occur .
Further , the vascular bundle of each sterile segment bifurcates at the base of the lamina , and the branches run out into two up-turned processes , that is , the last division of the bundles is dichotomous .
If we admit the homologies suggested here , we may draw an interesting parallel between Tmesipteris and the Sphenophyllales on the one hand , and such a simple Lycopodium as L. selago and Lepido-dendron on the other hand .
Tmesipteris and selago are both relatively small forms , which show an alternation of zones of sterile and fertile leaves , whereas the Palaeozoic plants both showed more complex vegetative structure , with secondary increase and specialised cones .
There are certain other points , however , to be considered before the affinity between Tmesipteris and the extinct Sphenophyllales can be considered as established .
As regards the anatomical structure , the difficulty does not appear to be great .
I do not propose to enter fully into this question at present ; it will suffice to quote Scott and Seward on this point .
The former states that the Psiloteae " are anatomically perhaps the nearest to the Sphenophylleae , " whilst Seward considers that " the anatomical characters of the Sphenophyllum shown are such as one finds in some recent genera of the Lycopodinae , especially Psilotum .
" But Psilotum is unquestionably closely allied to Tmesipteris .
The character in which a greater contrast exists is the arrangement of the leaves .
In the Sphenophyllales the arrangement of the leaves , both vegetative and fertile , in whorls , is a striking feature , whereas in the Psiloteae the leaves are scattered .
This difference , however , can hardly outweigh the evidence afforded by the other characters .
The Spenophyllales have been recognised as intermediate in their characters between the Equisetales and the Lycopodiales ; even on the assumption , therefore , that the Psiloteae are nearer the Spheno-phyllales , it would not be surprising to find they possess some Lyco-poclinous characters .
The Affinity of Tmesipteris with the 349 Dr. Scott has expressed the opinion* that the Psiloteae are clearly very remote from the Lycopodiese , and has suggested the hypothesis that they may have branched off from the main line of Lycopod descent very far back , at a point where some of the characters common to the Sphenophyllales were still retained .
If the evidence I have endeavoured to adduce here as to the character of the sporophylls , and especially the nature of the synangium , as a ventral leaf-lobe with its sporangia , be admitted , it will follow that the relationship of Tmesipteris and Psilotum with the Sphenophyllales is much closer than has generally been allowed , and possibly even closer than was supposed by Dr. Scott .
So , too , it will follow that the Psilotese are more remote from the typical Lycopodinae than has been supposed .
Addendum\#151 ; Received January 21 , 1902 .
It will obviously be of importance to examine the sporophylls of Psilotum , the only close ally of Tmesipteris , in order to see whether any facts can be established which bear upon the inferences drawn from the study of Tmesipteris .
The supply of material available when the above note was written was hardly sufficient to enable me to form a definite conclusion , but I have since obtained an abundant supply of triquetrum .
Before describing the results obtained , it will be well to refer to a memoir by Solms-Laubach , f in which certain observations of the sporophylls of Psilotum are contained .
Unfortunately , the original memoir has not yet been accessible to me , so that I can only judge of its contents from references by Bowerf and elsewhere .
But Bower saw nothing in the variations described inconsistent with the hypothesis that the sporophyll is a single leaf with two lobes , and the synangium merely a septate sporangium .
But the character of the sporophylls and their variations in Psilotum is by no means so obvious as in Tmesipteris , for the leaves are greatly reduced , Psilotum triquetrum being largely a xerophyte , and though the decurrent bases of the leaves are distinct , the free portions are very small , and often all but free from chlorophyll .
Nevertheless , when we compare the sporophylls of Psilotum with those of Tmesipteris , it becomes clear that they are i essentially similar .
We find fairly numerous instances in Psilotum of | a second dichotomy of one branch of the first fork , or , less frequently , of both branches .
In the former case we find two synangia and three leaf-lobes , here very minute ; in the latter case we find three synangia and four leaf-lobes .
When there are two synangia we find the attachment of the one is nearer the base of the sporophyll than the other .
* ' Studies in Fossil Botany,5 p. 499 .
f ' Ann. du Jardin Bot. Buitenzorg,5 1884 .
% * Phil. Trans. , ' B , 1894 , p. 544 .
Mr. E. S. Goodrich .
When there are two or three synangia they may still be separate , but they are crowded together , and in some cases may be more or less fused .
Some cases at least of irregular quinquelocular synangia are due to the fusion of two original synangia , owing doubtless , to the close proximity of their primordia .
But if originally distinct synangia may become fused in their development , we have less difficulty in understanding how the three loculi of the synangium may be due to the fusion of three primitively separate sporangia .
The most important inference from this comparison is that the repeated dichotomy of the sporophylls of the family Psiloteae is an ancient feature .
A real affinity with the Sphenophyllales is thereby rendered more probable .
In determining the affinities of the Phanerogams it is the custom to attach more importance to the characters of the flowers than to the vegetative characters , which are subject to many adaptive modifications .
Bower has recently " urged* the importance of the characters of the reproductive organs , and especially of the sporangia , in determining the affinities of the genera of Ferns .
If we allow that the characters of the sporophylls and sporangia are entitled to more weight than vegetative characters in deciding the affinities of the Psiloteae , the family must be placed in the Sphenophyllales rather than in the Lycopodiales .
The whorled arrangement of the leaves of the typical family Sphenophylleae is the chief objection to this , but phyllotaxis is often a very variable character , and notably so in the Psiloteae , even though it must be admitted that the arrangement in whorls appears to have been a very constant feature in the Sphenophylleae .
It would seem , therefore , that although the character of the sporophylls , and especially the sporangiophores , justifies our including the Psiloteae in the class Sphenophyllales , they yet form a family rather remote from the Sphenophylleae .
" On the Excretory Organs of Amphioxus .
" By Edwin S. Goodeigh , M.A. , Fellow of Merton College , Oxford .
Communicated by E , Bay Lankester , F.E.S. Beceived January 7 , \#151 ; Bead January 23 , 1902 .
Some years ago , in 1890 , Weiss and Boveri discovered excretory tubules in the pharyngeal region of Amphioxus .
f Soon after Boveri * ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , yoI .
192 , 1900 , p. 30 .
t Weiss , E. E. , " Excretory Tubules in Amphioxus lanceolatus , " ' Quart .
Jour* Micr .
Sci. , * yol .
31 , 1890 ; Boveri , Th. , " Ueber die Niere des AInphioxus , , , ' Sitz** Ber .
d. G-es .
f. Morph .
u. Phys. in Munclien/ Jahrg .
6 , 1890 .

