" Observations on the Electro-chemical Influence of long-continued Electric Currents of Low Tension .
" By G. Golding Bird , Esq. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. , Lecturer on Experimental Philosophy at Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , F.R S. The author , after observing that the brilliant discoveries in electrochemistry obtained by Sir Humphry Davy were effected by the employ ?
meant of voltaic currents of high intensity , elicited by means of large batteries , adverts to the labours of M. Becquerel , to whom we are indebted for the knowledge of the chemical agency of feeble currents in reducing several refractory oxides to the metallic state : and also to those of Dr. E. Davy , Bucholtz , and Professor Faraday in effecting decompositions of other substances by similar means .
In prosecuting this branch of inquiry , the author employed an apparatus analogous to that of Professor Daniell , for obtaining an equal and continuous current of low intensity from a single pair of plates : the metallic so ?
lution , in which a copper-plate was immersed , being contained in a glass tube , closed at the bottom by a diaphragm of plaster of Paris , and itself plunged in a weak solution of brine contained in a larger vessel , in which a plate of zinc was immersed j and a communication being established between the two metallic plates by connecting wires .
By the feeble , but continuous current thus elicited , sulphate of copper is found to be slowly decomposed , affording beautiful crystals of me ?
tallic copper .
Iron , tin , zinc , bismuth , antimony , lead , and silver may , in like manner , be reduced , by a similar and slightly modified process ; in general appearing with metallic lustre , and in a crystal ?
line form , and presenting a remarkable contrast in their appearance to the irregular , soft , and spongy masses obtained from the same so ?
lutions by means oi large batteries .
The crystals of copper rival in hardness and malleability the finest specimens of native copper , which they much resemble in appearance .
The crystallization of bismuth , lead , and silver , by this process , is very beautiful ?
that of bismuth being lamellar , of a lustre approaching to that of iron , but with the reddish tint peculiar to the former metal .
Silver may thus be procured of the whiteness of snow , and usually in the form of needles .
Some metals , such as nickel , which , when acted on by currents from large batteries , are deposited from their solutions as oxides only , are obtained , by means of the apparatus used by the author , in a brilliant metallic form .
He farther found that he could in this way reduce even the more refractory metallic oxides , such as silica , which resist the action of powerful batteries , and which M. Becquerel could only obtain in alloy with iron .
By a slight modification of the apparatus he was enabled to form amalgams both of potassium and of sodium with mercury , by the decomposition of solutions of chlorides of those bases ; and in like manner ammonium was easily reduced , when in contact with mercury , by the inilaence of a feeble voltaic current In this last o experiment it was found that an interruption to the continuance of the current , even for a few seconds , is sufficient to destroy the whole of the product which had been the result of the previous long-continued action ; the spongy ammoniacal amalgam being instantly decomposed , and the ammonia formed being dissolved in the surrounding fluid .

