I. c " Contributions towards determining the Weight of the Brain in the different Races of Man .
" By JOSEPI BARNARD DAVIS , M.D. &amp;c. Communicated by Prof. JOHN MARSHALL .
Received November 30 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) It would naturally be expected that great attention had been directed to the human brain , the organ of mental manifestation .
Still little has been done to ascertain its relative magnitude in the different races of mankind .
Opportunities for examining exotic brains are rare , and it is only by gauging the internal capacities of human skulls , and deducing the weight of the brain , that data can be obtained .
The inferiority of this method is not so clear as has been assumed , since we are able to fix upon an unchangeable substance of definite specific gravity for the purpose of this gauging , whereby we compensate for the variable condition of the brain , depending upon disease and other causes , and the immediate occasion of death .
The great difficulty hitherto has been to decide upon a definite allowance , or scale of allowance for other matters besides brain which always fill up the cavity of the skull , in different proportions at different ages , &amp;c. In the present investigations it has been considered most advisable to fix upon a definite , and at the same time proportionate , rule for compensating for these fluids and membranes .
And , after much inquiry , that rule has been laid down as a general tare of 15 per cent. on the capacity af the skull .
In former inquiries of this kind by Prof. Tiedemann and Prof. Morton , this allowance has been entirely or almost entirely overlooked , by which means their extended observations really refer to the internal capacities of human skulls , and not to the weights of the brain , as they supposed .
No 286 rJan .
23 , doubt internal capacities themselves become a legitimate means of comparison .
Synostotic and artificially deformed skulls are mostly included , for the reason specified , that their internal capacities are usually not materially interfered with .
Morton also failed to distinguish the sexes , and his Tables give no indication how many of the skulls were those of men and how many those of women .
When we recollect the great normal diversity in the size of the brain in the two sexes in any given race , this omission becomes of serious importance .
In the series of skulls now examined , this diversity in the weight of the brain in the two sexes extends from less than 10 per cent. to something more than 12per cent. ; so that Prof. Welcker 's datum of 10 per cent. is tolerably correct .
In our measurements the sexes are marked , and adult examples only included .
All the crania have been carefully and as uniformly as possible filled with dry Calais sand of a definite specific weight , which has been afterwards weighed and then reduced to its equivalent in cerebral matter of 1040 specific gravity , after the deduction of the 15 per cent. The observations on the weight of the brain in all the races have been arranged in seven Tables , corresponding very nearly to the races of the great divisions of the globe .
The results show that Prof. Tiedemann was misled when he hastily assumed that , inasmuch as a certain size and mass of brain was an essential condition for the exercise of the faculties of the mind , all human races are furnished therewith in an equal degree .
One important object has always been kept in view-namely , a careful comparison of the calculated observations of the Tables with the actual determinations of those who have weighed the brains of different races , as far as such determinations have extended .
This has been done with the view of comparing and correcting our results .
It would be difficult to give any intelligible abstract of the Tables which accompany the memoir .
Of the notes to these Tables some short account may be given here .
Dr. Peacock and other excellent and careful observers pretty nearly coincide in the conclusion that the brain of Englishmen , on the average , is about 49 oz. av .
in weight , or 1389 grammes .
Dr. Robert Boyd , in his memoir in the Philosophical Transactions , states as the result of his vast experience , that the adult male brain among the insane varied from 48 17 oz. to 43'87 oz. ; among the insane women from 44'55 oz. to 40'55 oz. ; whilst in the sane adults the averages varied in the men from 48-20 oz. to 45-34 oz. , and among the women from 43'70 oz. to 39'77 oz. It thus appears that Dr. Boyd 's investigations bring out an average brain-weight among the English of , speaking roundly , about 5 oz. less than Dr. Peacock 's means , and rather more than 3 oz. less than our means .
Dr. Thurnam , who examined and weighed the brains of 257 insane men and 213 insane women , agrees in his results with Dr. Boyd , being still rather below the averages 1868 .
] 237 obtained by the latter .
The general result of our Table is an average brain-weight for the English of 47'50 oz. , or 1346 grms. , which agrees tolerably well with the conclusions deduced by all these observers , being a mean term .
The mean derived from the 16 French skulls is 45 47 oz. , or 1280 grins.that is , 66 grms. less than the English .
The general result of an extended series of measurements by Prof. Broca of 357 French crania , those of men and women undistinguished , when subjected to our rule , gives a mean of 44'58 oz. , or 1263 grms.-that is , 17 gris .
below our deduced average .
The skulls of Italians , of Lapps , and of Swedes agree in giving a brainweight closely coinciding with that of the English .
Those of the Frisians and Dutch come into the same category .
In the 15 German skulls ( it should be observed that 13 are those of men ) the average brain-weight exceeds that of the English .
It is 50'28 oz. , or 1425 grms. , an excessive weight .
This probably follows from the unusual size of these German skulls , as well as in some degree from the great predominance of men 's skulls ; for Prof. Husehke , who weighed upwards of 60 brains of Germans , two-thirds being those of men , found the mean weight to be no more than 1384 grins .
Prof. Rudolph Wagner also tested by the balance 31 brains of Germans , the larger half being those of men , and obtained a mean of only 1300 grnms .
, itself a sufficiently large weight .
In the investigations of Prof. Welcker , who employed 30 adult normal skulls of men and 30 of women , the mean brain-weight of the series rises only to 42-83 oz. , or 1214 grms. This seems to be conclusive that our specimens are large skulls , and that the size of the German brain has been somewhat overrated .
The result of further investigation will probably be to correct these discrepancies .
In entering upon the decidedly brachycephalic races of Europe , it must be noted that we have for our examination the skulls of men only , and those in small numbers , which will prevent any accurate comparison with the rest of the series .
The mean brain-weioht of two male Poles is 47'14 oz. , or 1336 grms. That deduced from Dr. A. XWeisbach 's gauging of 25 skulls of young Polish men , when subjected to our rule , is 47'2 oz. , or 1338 grms. , a result almost identical with that from our observations .
The Gipsies of Wallachia present a marked diminution of brain-weight when compared with the unumangos and other races of that region .
The mean of 6 male ltumango skulls is 45'97 oz. , or 1303 grmns .
; that of two male Gipsies is 43'93 oz. , or 1245 grms. Although it has reference merely to the collection of skulls upon which these observations have been made , the order in which the different European races range themselves , beginning with the heaviest brain-weights and proceeding to the lightest , is given in the memoir .
The general mean of the European series is 46-87 oz. , or 1328 grins .
In entering upon the ASIATIC RACEs , we are at once struck with the small brain-weights of the people at the commencement of the Table , the [ Jan. 23 , 238 Fedahs of Ceylon and the Hindoos .
The mean obtained from 35 crania of males of Hindoo Tribes is 44'22 oz. , or 1253 grms. ; that from those of 31 females 39'99 oz. , or 1133 grms. , -which yields a mean of the two sexes of 42'11 oz. , or 1193 grms. A reference to Dr. Morton 's observations shows that his series , when properly calculated by our rule , give a still lower mean , viz. 41'74 oz. , or 1183 grms. The skulls of Mussulmen afford a slightly increased average of brainweight over those of iHindoos .
This perhaps might have been anticipated .
The two skulls of male Khonds , one of the unquestioned aboriginal races of India , show a brain-weight of 37'87 oz. , or 1073 grms. As we ascend the Himalayan Slope we reach races who have a somewhat increased volumle of brain .
The Lepchas , Bodos , and Bhotias range about 46 oz. And when we reach what have been called the Indo-Chinese races , the brain-weight becomes again more considerable .
The mean of the Siamese is 47'14 oz. , or 1336 grms. , that of the Chinese 47'00 oz. , or 1332 grms. , and that of the Burmese 47'S87 oz. , or 1357 grins .
Of the races of Japan only two crania of true Japanese have been obtained ; but of the aboriginal Aminos , of the Island of Yesso , the brainweight , as deduced from four skulls , is 45'83 oz. , or 1299 grins .
The general average of the Asiatic Table shows a diminution , when compared with that of the European .
The numbers are , for the latter , 46'87 oz. , or 1]328 grins .
, and for the former , 44'62 oz. , or 1266 grms. , which is a diminution of more than two ounces , or 62 grms. At the commencement of the AFRICAN RACES we encounter the Berbers and the Guanches , the former inhabitants of Teneriffe .
These are people with rather small brains .
The general mean amounts to 43'49 oz. , or 1233 grmins .
Of the Continental people , the Negroes of Tribes unknown give a slightly increased brain-weight of 44-08 oz. , or 1249 grms. The Dahomans rise to a mean of 46'34oz .
, or 1313 grms. , and the Bakeles , a warlike tribe on the Equator , to an equally high brain-weight .
A brain of an adult Negro , weighed by Dr. Peacock , was found to weigh 45'50 oz. , or 1289 grms. Another , examined by Dr. Edmond Simon , was found to weigh , with the membranes , 1226 grms. In passing to the more Southern portions of the African continent we find the races much contrasted in respect of their brain-weights .
The Kafir skulls , seven-eighths-of which are those of men , present a mean of 48'16 oz. , or 1365 grins .
, whilst that of the small Bushmans reaches only to 39 70 oz. , or 1125 grins .
In Prof. Marshall 's valuable and elaborate account of the Brain of a Bushwoman in the Philosophical Transactions , there is a careful calculation of the original weight of the brain , which , by means of experiment upon human brains subjected to the action of spirits of wine , he was able to restore to its original weight ; and he decided this to have been 30'75 oz. , or 875 grms. Prof. Marshall afterwards gauged the capacity of the skull by filling it with water , which he has given..te found it to be 60'64 cubic inches .
With this capacity given , it is easy to determine that the weight of the brain would have been 31*01 oz. according to our rule .
Prof. Marshall 's calculation very closely approximates to this , viz. 30'75 oz. , or only a quarter of an ounce different .
This case , in which the brain-weight was restored and the skull was also gauged , seems to be a good instance for testing the accuracy of our method ; and the result appears to prove that it may be relied upon with much confidence .
The general mean of our African Races is less than that of European Races , -a result which is not in agreement with Tiedemann 's conclusions .
It is rather more than two and a half ounces less than our European mean .
In passing to the AMERICAN RACES we have placed first the Esquimaux of the whole Arctic Circle .
They present the large general mean brainweight of 46'56 oz. , or 1319 grms. A series of mostly individual skulls belonging to different Amnerican Tribes affords a general mean of 46'23 oz. , or 1310 grms. With these may be compared the 164 skulls of the " Barbarous Tribes " of Morton 's American Family .
When the mean cubic contents of these are reduced to our terms , with the observance of our rule , they produce a brain-weight of 42'84 oz. , or 1214 grms. , which is less than our mean by something more than three ozs .
When we arrive at the Caribs , former inhabitants of the Antilles , there is a considerable falling off ; they descend to 42*32 oz. , or 1199 grms. Among South American Tribes , the Amincas , or ancient inhabitants of the plain of Bogota , afford a mean brain-weight of 44'20 oz. , or 1253 grms. This is about the average until we reach the warlike Araucanians .
Of these , six skulls , five of which are those of men , and one of them also a megalocephalic skull , ascend to a mean brain-weight of 48'02 oz. , or 1361 grms. The average of the whole of the American races reaches 44'73 oz. , or 1268 grms. , which is 2'14 oz. , or 60 grms. less than that of the European races .
It also comes so near to the general mean of the Asiatic and African races as to produce the impression that the whole must be regarded as pretty nearly equal .
The AUSTRALIAN RACES belong to two families the Australians proper , and the Tasmanians ; and they are remarkable among humana races as possessing the smallest brains .
The mean brain-weight among the former is 41 38 oz. , or 1173 grms. , and among the more robust Tasmianians 42'25 oz. , or 1197 grms. The mean of the two families when combined reaches to 41'81 oz. , or 1185 grms. This is a brain-weight one-ninth less than that of the general average of Europeans .
The last great section into which we have divided human races is that of OCEANIC RACES .
It includes the aboriginal inhabitants of all the Islands , both of the North and the South Pacific Oceans .
When we arrive at this section we seem as if we were returning in some measure to the large brain-weights of Europeans .
[ Jan. 23 , The eight skulls of 2lalays ( six of men and two of women ) afford the highest mean of any of the Oceanic Races , viz. 47'07 oz. , or 1334 grms. For such a bold and enterprising race , who have pushed their migrations , chiefly for commercial purposes , over almost the whole Ocean , such a rich cerebral endowment might have been in some measure expected .
The collection which has afforded the materials for this Memoir is rich in crania from the Dutch dominions in the East-Indian Archipelago .
These are distinguished for a tolerably high average of brain-weight .
And this is not much diminished when we reach the aboriginal inhabitants of the Polynesian Islands and Western Pacific .
In conclusion , it is believed that this investigation has contributed much more than any former one to define and to discriminate the brain-weights of different human races .
Hence it is hoped that it will be accepted as a valid contribution to a most important subject .

