On the Nephridia of Perichaeta .
January 12 , 1888 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Arthur James Balfour , whose certificate had been suspended as required by the Statutes , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Preliminary Note on the Nephridia of Perichaeta .
" By Frank E. Beddard , M.A. , Prosector to the Zoological Society of London , Lecturer on Biology at Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 21 , 1887 .
The following observations are the result of a study of a species of Perichaeta , which is probably identical with Perrier 's P. aspergillum.* I owe a number of excellently preserved examples to the kindness of Mr. Shipley , Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge .
In transverse sections of the anterior segments the nephridia are seen to form numerous tufts of glandular tubules closely related to the body-wall and to the septa .
This appearance , which is also seen in dissections , is very different from that of most other earthworms , and has been commented upon by other observers .
Perrier , in fact , expressed the opinion that these organs in Perichaeta are in a rudimentary condition .
I shall , however , bring forward reasons for believing that they are in a very archaic condition .
The remarkable appearance of the nephridia led me to infer that I should find the external apertures in each segment to be numerous , as I showed to be the case in Acanthi)drilus.'f I may take the opportunity of stating that in the latter species ( A. ) there is apparently a very much greater number of nephridiopores in the anterior than in the posterior segments ; in certain of the anterior segments I counted over one hundred .
I am now able to state that this is also the case in Perichaeta ( in all probability in other species besides P. aspergillum ) .
The external pores lie between the setae , but have no regularity in their arrangement ; frequently there were three or four between two successive setae , as often there seemed to * 'Paris , Mus. Hist. Not .
Nouv .
Archives , ' 1872 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1885 , VOL. XLTI1 .
310 On the Nephridia of Perichaeta .
[ Jan. 12 , be only one or two .
The minute structure of the terminal section of nephridia is slightly different from that of Acanthodrilus .
I have also found that Typhoeus and a new genus , which I propose shortly to describe under the name of Dichogaster , have many nephridiopores in each segment .
Another point , to which I wish to direct attention in this communication , is that Perichaeta there is a connexion between the nephridia of successive segments .
Quite recently Ed. Meyer* and Cunninghamt have shown that in Lanice conchilega the nephridia of each side are connected by a continuous longitudinal duct .
This discovery is in accord with the presumed origin of the Annelid from the Platyhelminth excretory system , and also with the development of Polygordius ( Hatchek ) and Lumbricus .
% In Perichaeta the connexion between the nephridial tufts of successive segments is not brought about by a continuous longitudinal duct , one on each side of the body , but by numerous tubules which perforate the intersegmental septum .
Thus it appears that the nephridial system of Perichaeta consists of a network of tubules .
In this respect Perichaeta agrees with the leech but differs in the presence of numerous nephridiopores in each segment .
These facts appear to lend further support to the view that it is possible to derive the annelid from the platyhelminth excretory system .
Lang has pointed out that the " secondary " pores by which the excretory organ of the Platyhelminths communicates with the exterior have probably given rise to the nephridial pores in the Annelida ; by a subsequent arrangement of these in a metameric fashion , and by the breaking up of the nephridial network , the paired nephridia have originated .
The longitudinal canal has disappeared , except in the cases that I have already mentioned .
In some Platyhelminths the longitudinal canals are , partly at least , broken up into a network ; and it is this condition which has persisted in Perichaeta and Pontobdella ; moreover in some Platyhelminths , where the " secondary " pores have become metamerically arranged , there are more than one pair to each " segment .
" Eor this reason it is perhaps allowable to regard the condition of the nephridia in Perichaeta as more archaic than Pontobdella .
The disappearance of the connexion between the nephridia of successive segments leads to the condition which exists in Acanthodrilus ; the reduction of the external pores , already perceptible in the posterior segments of A. multiform , culminates in the disappearance of all but two in each segment .
The irregularity in the position of these , which is best marked in Plutellus , is the last trace of the presence of multiple nephridiopores in each segment .
* Quoted by Lang , " Die Polycladen."\#151 ; Naples Monographs .
t ' Nature , ' June 16 , 1887 .
J Wilson , 'Journal of Morphology , ' vol. No. 1 .
S ' Quart .
Journ. Microsc .
8ci .
, ' 1885 .

