290 Prof. W. N. Hartley and A. K. Huntington .
[ Nov. 20 , Lastly , the authors say:\#151 ; " We have again pleasure in thanking Professor Stokes for his much-valued advice during the course of our investigations .
To our assistant , Mr. Pram , we are indebted for his able co-operation , and we have to thank Mr. H. Reynolds for his aid and skill in taking photographs .
" II .
" Researches on the Action of Organic Substances on the Ultra-Violet Rays of the Spectrum .
Part III .
On Examination of Essential Oils .
" By W. N. Hartley , F.R.S.E. , | \amp ; c. , Professor of Chemistry in the Royal College of Science for Ireland , Dublin , and A. K. Huntington , F.I.C. , F.C.S. , Associate of the Royal School of Mines .
Received July 22 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) Much chemical and physical research by various investigators has been devoted to the class of bodies known as Essential Oils , as , for instance , the work of Dr. J. H. Gladstone ( " Journal of the Chemical Society , " vol. xviii , p. 1 ; vol. xxiii , p. 147 ; vol. xxv , p. 1 ) ; of Dr. C. R. A. Wright ( " Journal of the Chemical Society , " vol. xxvi , pp. 549 and 686 ; vol. xxvii , pp. 1 , 317 , and 619 , Isomeric terpenes and their derivatives ) ; and of Dr. W. A. Tilden ( .
tit .
, vol. xxviii , pp. 514 and 1258 ) , as well as of many others .
The new method of research employed by us and described in a paper about to be published in the " Philosophical Transactions , ' has been applied to the examination of these substances .
We have to acknowledge the kindness with which several gentlemen have supplied us with samples of essential oils , namely , Dr. Gladstone , Mr. Parries , of the firm of Burgoyne , Burbidges , Cyriax , and Parries , Dr. Septimus Piesse , and Dr. W. A. Tilden .
As in our previous experiments ( Abstracts of Parts I and II , " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " No. 192 , 1879 ) , photographs were taken of the spectrum transmitted by the undiluted liquid , and then of that transmitted by the liquid in various states of dilution , the dilutions ranging in some cases from 1 in 50 to 1 in 500,000 volumes of alcohol .
The following is* a list of substances examined , classified according to the optical properties they were found to possess .
Oils and hydrocarbons transmitting continuous spectra .
Australene , from oil of turpentine .
Calamus .
Birch bark .
Citron .
Cajputene dihydrate .
Citronella .
Carraway hydrocarbon ( No. 2 ) .
Cedar wood .
Examination of Essential Oils .
1879 .
] Cedrat hydrocarbon .
Cubebs .
Elder .
Hesperidene , from oil of orange-peel .
Indian Geranium .
Juniper .
Lavender .
Lign-Aloes .
Melaleuca Ericifolia .
Menthol , from oil of mint .
Nutmeg hydrocarbon .
Patchouli , oil of , Nos. 1 and 2 .
Hose , otto of .
Rosewood .
Rosemary .
Santa !
wood .
Terebene .
Terebenthene .
Yifcivert .
Hydrocarbons showing the absorption bands of cymene .
Thyme .
Nutmeg .
Lemon .
Carraway ( No. 1 ) .
t Substances showing strong bands of absorption in the spectrum transmitted by dilute solutions .
Oils of Aniseed .
" Bay .
" Bergamot .
" Bitter Almonds .
, , Cassia .
" Cloves .
Carvol , oxidised derivative of carraw ay oil .
Myristicol , the same from nutmeg oil .
Patchouli , blue oil of .
Oils of Peppermint .
" Pimento .
" Thyme .
For the most part these latter substances are known to contain the aromatic nucleus as an essential part of their constitution .
Thus the oils of hay , pimento , and cloves , contain the substance eugenol , or C6H3.OH .
OCH3.C3H5 ; oil of cassia consists of cinnamic aldehyde , C6H5.C3H2.COH ; oil of aniseed of anethol , C6H4.OCH3.C3H5 ; and oil of thyme contains thymol , C6H3.OH .
CH3.C3H7 , as well as much cymene , C6H4.CH3.C3H7 .
Some other oils , such as bergamot and oil of peppermint , as likewise the bodies menthol , carvol , and myristicol , have an unknown constitution .
The three latter substances are known to be isomeric ( " Journal of the Chemical Society , " vol. xxv , p. 1 ) .
Great interest is attached to our e^paination of these bodies , since we Consider it to be proved from the character of the spectra they transmit that the nucleus of menthol is ' a terpene , while the benzene ring is the inner basis of carvol and myristicol .
Bergamot appears to be a terpene mixed with some derivative of the aromatic series , but the oil of peppermint on the other hand is essentially a substance belonging to this latter class .
The refraction equivalents of carvol apd myristicol are abnormal , like those of benzene derivatives , a fact which confirms our conclusions regarding the constitution of these substances .
The following is a summary of our observations with regard to the terpenes:\#151 ; 1 .
The terpenes with the composition C10H16 possess , in a high 292 Lord Elphinstone and C. W. Vincent .
[ Nov. 20 , degree , the power of absorbing the ultra-violet rays of the spectrum , though they are inferior in this respect to benzene and its derivatives , to which class of bodies they are so closely allied .
2 .
Terpenes with the composition C16H34 have a greatly increased absorptive power for the more refrangible rays , that is to say , they withstand dilution to a greater extent the greater the number of carbon atoms in the molecule .
3 .
Neither the terpenes themselves nor the oxidised or hydrated derivatives occasion absorption bands under any circumstances when pure , but always transmit continuous spectra .
4 .
Isomeric terpenes transmit spectra which generally differ from one another in length , or show variations on dilution .
5 .
The process of diluting with alcohol enables the presence of bodies of the aromatic series to be detected in essential oils , and even in some cases the amount of these substances present may be estimated .
Several diagrams in illustration of the kind of absorption exerted 4\gt ; y the different substances are presented with the complete paper .
III .
" Preliminary Note on Magnetic Circuits in Dynamo- and Magneto-Electric Machines .
" By Lord Elphinstone and Charles W. Vincent , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. , F.I.C. Received July 26 , 1879 .
The experiments which form the subject of the present note were made in connexion with an investigation as to the best form for the construction of a dynamo-electric machine , intended to furnish currents of high intensity in great quantity .
The principle deduced applies equally to magneto-electric machines .
The source of power in all dynamo-electric machines being electromagnets whose cores are already slightly magnetic , it appeared to us necessary to consider the conditions under which the initial force of such machines is best obtained .
For this purpose we made use of a ( J electro-magnet having a core of soft iron 2 inches in diameter and 36 inches long .
The arms of the [ ) were 4 inches apart .
The exciting helices were two sheet copper reels , 12 inches long , fitting closely upon the uprights of the [ J , but readily removable .
Each of these reels was coiled with 200 yards of No. 14 double covered copper wire .
Two cores of soft iron , of the same diameter , and each 12^ inches long , and which could be magnetised by the same helices , were also .employed .
The principal armature was of soft iron , 8 inches in length , by 2 inches in width , and 1 inch thickness , rounded at the ends .
Its face

