The Cerebro-spinal Fluid the Human Subject .
February 16 , 1899 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The President announced the acceptance by the Council of a portrait of Lord Kelvin , presented to the Society by Dr. Thorpe , on behalf of a large number of the Fellows .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Reflex Electrical Effects in Mixed Nerve , and in the Anterior and Posterior Roots .
" By Miss S. C. M. Sowton .
Communicated by Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. II .
" The Characteristic of Nerve .
" By A. D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. III .
" Observations on the Cerebro-spinal Fluid in the Human Subject .
" By StClair Thomson , M.D. , L. Hill , M.B. , and W. D. Halliburton , M.D. , F.R.S. IY .
" The Thermal Deformation of the Crystallised Normal Sulphates of Potassium , Rubidium , and Caesium .
" By A. E. Tutton , B.Sc. Communicated by Captain Abney , F.R.S. " Observations on the Cerebro-Spinal Fluid in the Human Subject .
By StClair Thomson , M.D. , Leonard Hill , M.B. , and W. D. Halliburton , M.D. , F.R.S. Received January 31 , \#151 ; Read February 16 , 1899 .
One of us ( StC .
T. ) has had under his care for some years a young woman who has suffered from continuous dripping from the nose .
The case has not been amenable to any treatment .
At first it was thought to be one of nasal hydrorrhoea , but certain characters in the affection convinced the observer that this could not be so , and that the fluid , which dropped from one nostril only , was cerebro-spinal fluid .
This was supported by the results of the chemical examination of the fluid .
The escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the nose has long been known to follow traumatic injury to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone , but the possibility of its spontaneous escape from the nose does not Dr. Thomson , Mr. Hill , and Dr. Halliburton .
appear to have been fully established before the present instance .
However , considerable research into the literature of the subject has shown that there are several cases recorded in which , though no history of injury existed , the flow of fluid from the nose was of such a character that they must have been similar to the present case , although in the majority of instances the true nature of the fluid escaped observation .
Many of these patients exhibited cerebral symptoms in the course of the disease , and some ultimately died from inflammation of the cerebral meninges , which had probably spread from the nose through some opening in the bony lamina that normally separates the cranial and nasal cavities .
The full clinical details of this rare case and of the similar ones just referred to are , however , reserved for publication elsewhere .
The present paper is concerned only with the composition of the fluid and the variations it presents under different circumstances .
Characters of the Fluid .
Our opportunities for examining the fluid chemically have been fairly frequent .
The fluid was always collected in sterilised glass vessels , and the examination made as soon as possible by one of us ( W. D. H. ) at King 's College , London .
The fluid is perfectly clear and colourless , looking like water ; its reaction is faintly alkaline ; its specific gravity is about 1005 .
On microscopic examination it shows no cells or other deposit .
It gives no precipitate with acetic acid .
It contains a trace of proteid , coagulable by heat , but the quantity is too small to give more than an opalescence .
In another portion of the fluid it was ascertained that this proteid is precipitable by saturation with magnesium sulphate ; it is therefore a globulin .
Albumin and other proteids are absent .
The fluid contains a substance which reduces Fehling 's solution .
A portion of the fluid was treated with excess of acidified alcohol ; the proteid so precipitated was filtered off .
The filtrate was evaporated to dryness over a water bath \#166 ; the dry residue was taken up with alcohol , filtered , and again evaporated to dryness .
Part was evaporated to dryness on a glass slide ; the residue examined microscopically was seen to contain the needle-like crystals , occurring singly and in bundles , similar to those previously described and figured by one of us ( W. D. H)* as obtainable from cerebro-spinal fluid .
The residue had also the characteristic pungent taste of pyrocatechin .
The remainder of the dry residue was dissolved in water and filtered .
The filtrate reduces Fehling 's solution well , but it does not ferment with yeast , nor does it give any osazone crystals on treatment with phenylhydrazine hydrochloride and sodium acetate .
Control experiments with a weak solution of dextrose , which gave about the same # ' Journ. of Physiol./ vol. 10 , p. 248 .
The Cerebrospinal Fluid in the Human 345 amount of reduction with Fehling 's solution , gave both these tests in a typical way .
The fluid was tested for creatinine with negative results .
The same results relative to the reducing substance have been obtained over and over again in various specimens of this fluid .
They agree with the observations of nearly all writers on the cerebro-spinal fluid , but differ from those of Nawratski , * who in a recent paper has affirmed , principally from observations on the cerebro-spinal fluid of the calf , that the reducing substance present is dextrose .
The principal points to be noticed in the properties of the fluid which lead to the conclusion that it is cerebro-spinal fluid are the following:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Its clear , watery character .
( 2 ) Its low specific gravity .
( 3 ) The small amount of proteid in it and the absence of albumin .
( 4 ) The presence in it of a substance which reduces Fehling 's solution , but is not dextrose .
It is possibly a substance related to pyrocatechin .
In comparison with this fluid , we examined also the secretion in some cases of true nasal hydrorrhoea .
This fluid is opalescent , somewhat viscid , and on microscopic examination shows amorphous matter with mucous corpuscles .
It gives with acetic acid a precipitate of mueinoid nature .
It sometimes does and sometimes does not contain a reducing substance , and this substance when present is sugar .
A quantitative analysis of one of these nasal fluids showed that the percentage of solids , especially organic solids , is higher than in cerebrospinal fluid .
The results of the analysis are as follows:\#151 ; Per cent. Water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
98-792 Total solids ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
T208 Proteids ( including mucin ) ... . .
0*260 Other organic substances ... ... 0-163 Inorganic substances ... ... ... ... .
0*785 Our observations on the characters of the cerebro-spinal fluid were followed by others in Avhich we sought to answer the following questions :\#151 ; The rate of flow .
The difference of composition at different times of the day .
The influence of straining , posture , and abdominal compression on the flow and composition of the fluid .
The effect on blood pressure of intra-venous injection of the fluid in animals .
* ' Zeits .
f. Physiol. Chem. , ' 1897 , vol. 23 , p. 532 .
Dr. Thomson , Mr. Hill , and Dr. Halliburton .
The Rate of .
One portion , collected by the patient herself in the course of an hour , measured 4 c.c. Another portion , collected under the supervision of one of us ( StC .
T. ) in ten minutes , measured 3-9 c.c. If the first portion is taken as a measure of the rate of secretion , the amount formed in the day will be 96 c.c. Taking , however , the second observation as being more accurate , the amount formed in the twenty-four hours will be over half a litre ( 561 *6 c.c. ) .
It is possible that this estimate is too high , as doubtless the patient , being under the observation of a physician , would be somewhat excited , and the consequent alteration of the circulation would , as we shall immediately see , cause the flow to become more abundant .
Comparison of the Morning and Evening Fluid .
Cavazzani , * from experiments on dogs , found that the cerebro-spinal fluid collected in the morning was more alkaline than in the evening , and contained more solid residue .
He considers that this is related to the activity of the nervous system , and that it confirms Obersteiner 's theory of sleep .
He obtained corresponding results in the case of a man with traumatic fistula of the frontal bone .
We considered it worth while to repeat this observation .
The qualitative examination of the fluid collected first thing on several mornings gave the same results as that of specimens collected the last thing in the evening .
Both were distinctly alkaline , but no estimation of the relative alkalinity was made .
The following table gives in percentages the results of the quantitative analyses :\#151 ; Morning fluid .
Water ... ... ... ... ... . .
99-004 Solids ... ... ... ... ... . .
0-996 Organic solids ... .
0418 Inorganic solids ... 0'878 Evening fluid .
99-027 0-973 0-100 0-873 The evening fluid is thus slightly poorer in both classes of constituents than that of the morning ; the difference is chiefly due to an alteration in the organic solids .
This is just what we should expect , as the decreased capillary pressure during sleep would lessen the rate of exudation of water .
Without committing ourselves to any theory on nervous activity or sleep , we may say that our experiments confirm those of Cavazzani .
* " Sul Liquido Cerebro-spinale , " * La Eiforma Medica , ' Anno YIII , 1892 , vol. 2 , p. 591 .
The Cerebrospinal Fluid tlic Human Subject .
347 The Influence of Straining and Posture on the Flow and Composition of the Fluid .
In a monograph on the cerebral circulation* one of us ( L. II .
) put forward the view that the rate of secretion of the cerebro-spinal fluid , when the cranio-vertebral cavity is opened , depends directly on the difference between the pressure in the cerebral capillaries and that of the atmosphere .
At the same time it was shown that ceiebial capillary pressure varies directly and absolutely with vena cava pressure .
Thus the cerebral capillary pressure can he raised with great ease by any agency which causes a rise of pressure in the vena cava or cerebral veins .
On the other hand , cerebral capillary pressure varies directly , but only proportionately , with aortic pressure , for between the aorta and the capillaries there lies the peripheral resistance .
It follows from the above that the easiest methods of raising the cerebral capillary pressure in man are:\#151 ; ( a)By compression of the abdomen .
( h ) By the assumption of the horizontal posture .
In this position , however , the rise of venous pressure may be compensated by the fall of arterial pressure , which normally occurs when the body is at rest .
This is , no doubt , the case during sleep .
( c ) By straining or forced expiratory effort , with the glottis closed .
By all these methods the vena cava pressure is considerably raised ; and by the last method the venous inlets into the thorax may be completely blocked , and the pressure in the cerebral capillaries raised to something like aortic pressure .
It is true that by such a forced expiratory effort the aortic pressure is lowered .
Nevertheless , the total effect on capillary pressure is a very great rise , for a fall of aortic pressure of 25 mm. of mercury produces a fall in cerebral capillary pressure of less than 5 mm. of mercury , while a rise of vena cava pressure of 25 mm. of mercury produces a rise of cerebral capillary pressure of 25 mm. Hg .
The present case gave us a unique opportunity of testing the correctness of these views on the living human subject , and our experiments entirely confirm them .
As will be seen from the following figures , the flow of cerebro-spinal fluid is accelerated by all those circumstances which raise the cerebral capillary pressure .
The increase in flow is , moreover , accompanied by a decrease in the percentage of solid matter .
The experiments were conducted under the supervision of two of us ( StC .
T. and L. H. ) ; the chemical investigation of the fluid was performed , as before , by the third ( W. D. H. ) .
* ' The Physiology and Pathology of the Cerebral Circulation , ' by Leonard Hill , London , Messrs. Churchill , 1896 .
348 Dr. Thomson , Mr. Hill , and Dr. Halliburton .
1 .
Patient sitting quietly without straining .
In five minutes 33 minims ( P357 c.c. ) were collected .
2 .
Patient sitting and straining .
In five minutes 35 minims ( P965 c.c. ) were collected .
3 .
Patient sitting quietly .
In five successive minutes the amounts collected were , respectively , 8 , 7 , 5 , 5 , 5 drops .
The total measured 19 minims ( P021 c.c. ) .
4 .
Subsequent to this , five minutes were occupied by the patient in straining , and the amounts collected in consecutive minutes were 12 , 10 , 8 , 9 , and 10 drops respectively .
The total measured 33 minims ( 1-947 c.c. ) .
5 .
Patient lying down and not straining .
The drops fell as follows in five consecutive minutes\#151 ; 9 , 6 , 5 , 5 , and 5 , and the total measured 27 minims ( P593 c.c. ) .
Here the arterial pressure was probably not decreased owing to mental excitement , while the cerebral venous pressure was increased .
6 .
Patient lying flat on the stomach and head hanging over the end of a sofa .
The drops fell as follows in five consecutive minutes , 8 , 7 , \lt ; 5 , 7 , and 7 .
The total measured 28 minims ( P652 c.c. ) .
7 .
Finally , after the last experiment , the following was collected during quiet dropping , while the patient was sitting with the head forward .
The drops fell as follows :\#151 ; 5 , 4 , 4 , 4 , and 4 , in five successive minutes ; and the total measured 15 minims ( 0-885 c.c. ) .
The following is the report on the chemical examination of the fluids:\#151 ; So far as the small quantities available admit of analysis , the fluids are the same qualitatively .
The liquid which escaped passively , and that which passed under straining , both contained a small quantity of organic and inorganic solids .
Among the organic substances present are the , reducing substance and a trace of proteicl .
Judged by the amount of precipitate produced by alcohol in equal amounts of the two fluids , the proteid is less abundant in the fluid passed during straining , but the amount is too small to weigh .
Determination of the total solids gave the following results , expressed in percentages :\#151 ; A. The fluid passed passively , PI per cent. B. The fluid passed during straining , 0-43 per cent. Even the higher of these numbers is less than in cases of cerebro-spinal fluid from meningocele and hydrocephalus , previously recorded by one of us ( W. D. H.).* In addition to the foregoing , two specimens were collected at home by the patient herself .
Analysis of these gave the following results :\#151 ; A. Fluid collected while patient was sitting upright quietly .
The percentage of solids was Pll .
* ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 10 , p. 232 .
The Cerebrospinal Fluid the Human Subject .
349 B. Fluid collected while she was lying down .
The percentage of solids was P03 .
The effect of the horizontal posture is in the same direction , though not so marked as the effect of straining .
This is what was to be expected , for the horizontal posture would not raise the venous , and thus the cerebral , capillary pressure so much as powerful expiratory efforts would .
Moreover , the arterial pressure falls during quiet rest in the recumbent posture , as one of us has determined ( L. H.).* In order to note the effects of straining on the retinal circulation , Mr. Vernon Cargill was asked to examine the patient , and he kindly reported as follows :\#151 ; " I noticed that when a straining effort was mads , a decided but transitory narrowing of the retinal arteries on and adjacent to the disc , and also a marked pulsation in the trunks of the retinal veins occurred .
" The transitory narrowing of the arteries points to the temporary lowering of tilt-aortic pressure , while the pulsation of the veins is a sign of the capillary engorgement due to venous congestion .
Experiments made with Abdominal Compression .
These experiments were made in order to complete and confirm those just recorded .
The patient was seated , and the abdomen was compressed as firmly and evenly as possible by one of us ( btC .
1 .
) , spreading both hands over the front of the abdomen .
The number of drops per minute were counted as before , and periods of compression lasting five minutes were alternated with periods of the same duration , during which the patient was sitting quietly .
The following table gives the results succinctly:\#151 ; Condition of patient .
Drops in successive minutes .
Total collected .
j A. Abdomen compressed B. Sitting quietly .
C. Abdomen compressed ; D. Sitting quietly 11 , 9 , 8 , 7 , 5 4 , 5 , S , 4 , 4 11 , 8 , 8 , 6 , 6 6 , 7 , 8 , 6 , 6 Minims .
27 14 .
24 Measureme c.c. 1-593 I 0 -826 1 -416 | nt omitted !
The fluids from experiments " A " and " C " were mixed together ; also those from experiments " B " and " D. " Determination of the .total solids gave the following results :\#151 ; " A " and " C. " Fluid collected during abdominal compression .
Percentage of solids , 0*68 .
" B " and " D. " Fluid collected while the patient was sitting upright quietly .
Percentage of solids , IT4 .
* ' Phys. Soc. Proc. , ' January 15 , 1898 .
o50 Mr. A. E. Tutton .
Thermal Deformation of the The experiments confirm those recorded in the preceding section .
Abdominal compression raises the vena cava pressure , and so leads to increased cerebral capillary pressure , and in this way to increase in the volume of the cerebro-spinal fluid secreted .
Increase of volume , as before , is accompanied with fall in the percentage of solids present .
1ntra-vascularInjection of the Cerebro-spinal Fluid .
One of us ( W. D. H. ) , in conjunction with Dr. Mott , F.E.S. , has been for some time engaged in examining the results of injecting into animals cerebro-spinal fluid removed from cases of brain atrophy , especially from cases of general paralysis of the insane .
This fluid contains a toxic substance , choline , doubtless derived from the disintegration of lecithin in the brain .
Injection of .
such fluid into the jugular vein of animals ( dogs , cats , rabbits ) , anaesthetised with ether , causes a marked lowering of arterial blood pressure , which is partly cardiac in origin , but principally due to the local action of the poison on the neuro-muscular apparatus of the peripheral vessels , especially in the splanchnic area.* The fluid obtained from the present case was also injected in a similar way .
Quantities varying from 7 to 10 c.c. were injected into the circulation in dogs , but with entirely negative results .
Such a quantity in the case of fluid from a general paralytic would be quite sufficient to cause a marked fall of arterial pressure .
Similar negative results , both as regards blood pressure and respiration , were obtained with other specimens of normal cerebro-spinal fluid removed from other animals , or from cases of meningocele and hydrocephalus in children .
In all such cases , also , choline was searched for chemically , but with negative results .
" The Thermal Deformation of the Crystallised Normal Sulphates of Potassium , Eubidium , and Caesium .
" By A. E. Tutton , B.Sc. Communicated by Captain Abney , C.B. , F.E.S. Deceived January 31 , \#151 ; Eead February 16 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) In this memoir are communicated the results of sixty-four determinations of the thermal expansion of the orthorhombic crystals of the normal sulphates of potassium , rubidium , and caesium , carried out for the three axial directions of the crystals with the aid of the compensated interference dilatometer previously described by the author . !
* \#163 ; Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' Feb. , 1897 , and Feb. , 1898 ( ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vols .
21 and 22 ) .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 191 , p. 313 .

