Experiments relative to the Effect of Temperature on the refractive Index and dispersive Power of Expansible Fluids , and on the Influence of these Changes in a Telescope with a flutid Lens .
By Peter Barlow , Esq. F.R.S. 8 &amp;c. Read May 15 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 313 .
] In a paper lately read to the Society , the author stated that he had not perceived any change in the focal length of the telescope , induced by changes of temperature ; but he has since ascertained that in order to produce the brightest and most perfect image , the distance of the object-glass requires a minute adjustment , amounting to 0 134 of an inch , corresponding to an elevation of temperature from 57 ?
to 84 ?
, or a depression from 570 to 31 ? .
In order to introduce greater clearness and precision , the author proceeds to define certain terms which he finds it necessary to employ .
By the length of the telescope , he would be understood to mean the distance between the object-glass and the focus ; by the fluid focus , that between the fluid lens and the focus ; and by the focal power of the telescope , he means the focal length of a telescope of the usual construction , which gives the same convergency to the rays , or produces an image of the same size : but he also employs the term focal length of the telescope , as synonymous with the first ; that of fluid focal length as synonymous with the second ; and that of equivalent focal length as synonymous with the last of these terms .
As it is difficult to determine the refractive index of the fluid under different circumstances , from which their effects on the focal power of the telescope might be computed , the author endeavoured to ascertain , by direct observations , the effect of changes of temperature 34-6 on the power of the telescope , and thence computes the corresponding change in the refractive index of the fluid .
The result is the amount of adjustment already stated .
The correction for angular measurements was the 60th part of a second in every minute , for every degree of thermometric change ; a quantity , Mr. Barlow observes , which is too small to deserve notice , except in cases of extreme delicacy .
The dispersions at 310 and at 84 ?
are in the ratio of 3067 to 3084 .
The change in the refractive index between 32 ?
and 2120 , supposing it to increase uniformly , would be about one tenth of the whole , -a proportion which is very nearly the same as the actual expansion of the fluid .
Hence it is considered as probable , that in this and all other expansible fluids , the index of refraction varies directly as the density .
On the other hand it would appear , that the dispersive ratio remains , at all temperatures , constantly the same .

