Fig : II No.2d .
A B F KGEC D A Fig : I C DEF GHI Extract of a Letter , lately written from Venice by the Learned Doctor Walter Pope , to the Reverend Dean of Rippon , Doctor John Wilkins , concerning the Mines of Mercury in Friuli ; and a way of producing Wind by the fall of Water .
The Mines of Mercury in Friuli , a Territory belonging to the Venetians , are about a days Journey and a half disiant from Goritia Northwards , at a place called Idria , situated in a Valley of the Julian Alps .
They have been , as I am informed , these 160 .
years in the possession of the Emperor , and all the Inhabitants speak the Sclavonian Tongue .
In going thither , we travelled several hours in the best Wood I ever saw before or since , being very full of Firrs , Okes , and Beeches , of an extraordinary thickness , straitne 's , and height .
The Town is built , as usually Towns in the Alps are , all of wood , the Church only excepted , and another House wherein the Overfeer lives .
When I was there , in August last , the Valley , and the Mountains too , out of which the Mercury was dugg , were of as pleasant a verdure , as if it had been in the midst of Spring , which they there attribute to the moistness of the Mercury ; how truly , I dispute not .
That Mine , which we went into , the best and greatest of them all , was dedicated to Saint Barbara , as the other Mines are to other Saints , the depth of it was 125 .
paces , every pace of that Country being , as they informed us , more then 5 of our Feet .
There are two ways down to it ; the shortest perpendicular way is that , whereby they bring up the Mineral in great Buckets , and by which oftentimes some of the workmen come up and down .
The other , which is the usual way , is at the beginning not difficult , the descent not being much ; the greatest trouble is , that in several places you cannot stand upright : but this holds not long , before you come to descend in earnest by perpendicular Ladders , where the weight of on 's body is found very sensible .
At the end of each Ladder , there are boards a cross , where we may breath a little .
The Ladders , as was said , are perpendicular , but being imagined produced , do not make one Ladder , but several parallel ones .
Being at the bottom , we saw no more then what we saw before , only the place , whence the Mineral came .
All the way down , and the bottom , where there are several lanes cut out in the Mountain , is lined and propped with great pieces of Firr-trees , as thick as they can be set .
They dig the Mineral with Pickaxes , following the veins : it is for the most part hard as a stone , but more weighty ; of a Liver-colour , or that of Crocus Metallorum .
I hope shortly to show you some of it .
There is also some soft Earth , in which you plainly see the Mercury in little particles .
Besides this , there are oftentimes found in the Mines round stones like Flints , of several bignesses , very like those Globes of Hair , which I have often seen in England , taken out of Oxes bellies .
There are also several Marcasites and stones , which seem to have specks of Gold in them ; but upon trial they say , they find none in them .
These round stones are some of them very ponderous , and well impregnated with Mercury ; others , light , having little or none in them .
The manner of getting the Mercury is this : They take of the Earth , brought up in Buckets , and put it into a Sive , whose bottom is made of wires at so great a distance , that you may put your finger betwixt them : it is carried to a stream of running water , and washed as long as any thing will pass through the Sive .
That Earth which passes not , is laid aside upon an other heap : that which pasieth , reserved in the hole , G.in Fig.1.and taken up again by the second Man , and so on , to about ten or twelve fives proportionably less .
It often happens in the first hole , where the second Man takes up his Earth , that there is Mercury at the bottom ; but towards the farther end , where the intervals of the wires are less , it is found in very great proportion .
The Earth laid aside is pounded , and the same operation repeated .
The fine small Earth , that remains after this , and out of which they can wash no more Mercury , is put into Iron retorts and stopped , because it should not fall into the Receivers , to which they are luted .
The fire forces the Mercury into the Receivers : The Officer unluted several of them to show us ; I observed in all of them , that he first poured out perfect Mercury , and after that came a black dust , which being wetted with water discovered it self to be Mercury , as the other was .
They take the Caput mortuum and pound it , and renew the operation as long as they can get any Mercury out of it .
This is the way of producing the Mercury , they call Ordinary , which exceeds that , which is got by washing , in a very great proportion , as you will perceive by the account annexed .
All the Mercury got without the use of Fire , whether by washing , or found in the Mines ( for in the digging , some little particles get together , so that in some places you might take up two or three spoonfuls of pure Mercury ) is called by them Virgin-Mercury , and esteemed above the rest .
I inquired of the Officer what virtue that had more , then the other ; he told me that making an Amalgama of Gold and Virgin-Mercury , and putting it to the fire , that Mercury would carry away all the Gold with it , which common Mercury would not do .
The Engins , employed in these Mines , are admirable ; the Wheels , the greatest that ever I saw in my life ; one would think as great as the matter would bear : all moved by the dead force of the water , brought thither in no chargeable Aqueduct from a Mountain , 3 Miles distant : the water pumped from the bottom of the Mine by 52 pumps , 26 on a side , is contrived to move other wheels , for several other purposes .
The Labourers work for a Julio a day , which is not above 6 or 7 pence , and endure not long ; for , although none stay under ground above 6 hours ; all of them in time ( some later , some sooner ) become paralytick , and dye hectic .
We saw there a man , who had not been in the Mines for above half a year before , so full of Mercury , that putting a piece of Brass in his mouth , or rubbing it in his fingers , it immediately became white like Silver : I mean , he did the same effect , as if he had rubbed Mercury upon it , and so paralytick , that he could not with both his hands carry a Glass , half full of Wine , to his mouth without spilling it , though he loved it too well to throw it away .
I have been since informed , that here in Venice , those that work on the back-side of Looking-glasses , are also very subject to the Falsey .
I did not observe , that they had black Teeth ; it may be therefore , that we accuse Mercury injustly for spoiling the Teeth , when given in Venereal diseases , I confess , I did not think of it upon the place ; but , black Teeth being so very rare in this Country , I think I could not but have marked it , had all theirs been so , They use exceeding great quantity of Wood , in making and repairing the .
Engins , and in the Furnaces ( whereof there are 16 , each of them carrying 24 .
Retorts ; ) but princlpally in the Mines , which need continual reparation , the Fir-trees lasting but a small time under ground .
They convey their Wood thus ; About four miles from the Mines , on the sides of two mountains , they cut down the Trees , and draw them into the interjacent Valley , higher in the same Valley , so that the Trees , according to the descent of the water lye betwixt it and Idria : with vast charges and quantities of Wood they make a Lock or Dam , that suffers not any water to pass ; they expect afterwards , till there be water enough to float these Trees to Idria ; for , if there be not a spring , ( as generally there is , ) Rain , or the melting of the Snow , in a short time , afford so much water , as is ready to run over the Dam , and which ( the Flood-gates being opened ) carries all the Trees impetuously to Idria , where the Bridge is built very strong , and at very oblique Angles to the stream , on purpose to stop them , and throw them on shore near the Mines .
Those Those Mines cost the Emperor heretofore 70000 .
or 80000 .
Florens yearly , and yielded less Mercury then at present , although it costs him but 28000 .
Florens now .
You may see what his Imperial Majesty gets by the following account , of what Mercury the Mines of Idria have produced these last three years .
1661 l. Ordinary Mercury 198481 Virgin Mercury 6194 204675 1662 .
l. Ordinary Mercury 225066 Virgin Mercury 9612 234678 1663 l. Ordinary Mercury 244119 Virgin Mercury 11862 255981 There are always at work 280 persons , according to the relation I received from a very civil person , who informed me also of all the other particulars above mentioned , whose name is Achatio Kappenjager ; his Office , Contra-scrivano per sua Maesta Cesarea in Idria del Mercurio .
To give some light to this Narrative , take this Diagramme : F. is the water , C. B. a vessel , into which it runs .
DG .
EH.FI .
are streams , perpetually issuing from that vessel : D. E. F. three sives , the distance of whose wires at bottom lessen proportionably .
G. the place , wherein the Earth , that passed through the sive D. is retained ; from whence it is taken by the second man ; and what passes through the sive E. is retained in H. and so of the rest .
K.L. M. wast water , which is so much impregnated with Mercury , that it cures Itches and sordid Ulcers .
See Fig. 1 .
I will trespass a little more upon you , in describing the contrivance of blowing the Fire in the Brassworks of Tivoli near Rome ( it being new to me ) where the Water blows the Fire , not by moving the Bellows , ( which is common ) but by affording the Wind .
See Fig. II .
where A. is the River , B. the Fall of it , C. the Tub into which it falls , LG .
a Pipe , G. the orifice of the Pipe , or Nose of the Bellows , GK .
the Hearth , E. a hole in the Pipe , F. a stopper to that hole , D. a place under ground , by which the water runs away .
Stopping the hole E , there is a perpetual strong wind , issuing forth at G : and G. being stopped , the wind comes out so vehemently at E , that it will , I believe , make a Ball play , like that at Frescati .

