XXI .
" ' New Observations upon the Minute Anatomy of the Papillv of the Frog 's Tongue .
" By LIONTEL S. BEALE , M.B. , F.R.S. , F.R.C.P. , Professor of Physiology and of General and Morbid Anatomy in Iing 's College , London ; Physician to the Hlospital , &amp;c. Received June 16 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) After alluding to the observations of Axel Key , whose results accord with his own more closely than those of any other observer , the author refers particularly to the drawings of Hartmann , the latest writer upon the strctunre of the papilla .
According to the axuthor , Dr. HIartmann , owing to the defective method of preparation he employed , has failed to observe points which had been seen by others who had written before him , and which may now be most positively demonstrated .
Hartmann 's process consisted in soaking the tissue for three days in solution of bichromate of potash , and afterwards adding solution of caustic soda .
It can be shown by experiment that many structures which cani be most clearly demonstrated by other modes of investigation , are rendered quite invisible by this process .
Hartmann 's observations , like those of the author , have been made upon the papillae of the tongue of the little green tree-frog ( Hyla arborea ) .
With reference to the termination of the nerves in the fungiform papille of the tongue of the Hyla , the author describes a plexus of very fine nervefibres , with nuclei , which has not been demonstrated before .
Fibres resulting from the division of the dark-bordered flbres in the axis of the papilla can be traced directly into this plexus .
From its upper part fine fibres , which interlace with one another in the most intricate manner , forming a layer which appears perfectly granular , except under a power of 1000 or higher , may be traced into the hemispheroidal mass of epithelium-like cells which surmounts the sunmmit of the papilla .
This hemispheroidal mass belongs not to epithelial , but to the nervous tissues. .
It adheres to the papilla after every epithelial cell has been removed ; the so-called cells of which the entire mass colnsists cannot be separated from one another like epithelial cells ; fibres exactly resembling nerve-fibres can often be seen between them ; and very fine nerve-fibres may be traced into the mass from the bundle of nerves in the papilla .
The fine nerve-fibres which are distributed to the simple papille of the tongue , aroulnd the capillary vessels , and to the muscular fibres of these fungiform papillae , come off from the very same trunk as thatfrom which the bundle of purely senasitive fibres which terminate in the papilie are derived .
The fine nucleated nerve-fibres of the capillaries which the author has demonstrated have been traced into undoubted nervetrunks in many instances , so that it is quite certain that many of the nuclei which have been considered to belong to the connective tissue ( connective-tissue corpuscles ) are really the nuclei of fine nerve-fibres not to be demonstrated by the processes of investig , ation usually followed* .
These nerve-fibres in the coninective tissue around the capillaries are considered by the author to be the afferent fibres of the nerve-centres of which the efferent branches are those distributed to the muscular coat of the small arteries .
The author 's observations upon the tissues of the frog convince him that the nervous tissue is distinct in every part of the body from other special tissues .
For example , he holds that nerve-fibres never pass by continuity of tissue inito the ; 'nuclei ' ( germinal matter ) of muscular fibres , or into those of tendon , of the cornea , or of epitheliuLn .
I-le advances arguments to show that the epitheliurn-like tissule upon the sumnmnit of the papilla is not epithelium at all , but belongs to the nervous tissues .
hence it follows that nerves do not influence any tissues by reasoni of continuity of tissue , but solely by the nerve-currents which pass along them* .
The authlor states that the so-called ' nuclei ' ( germinal matter ) of the finie muscular fibres of the papille are continuous with the contractile material , as may be demonstrated by a magnifying power of 1800 linear ; and be holds the opinioni that the conitractile matter is formed from the nuclei .
Ile adduces observations which lead him to the conclusion that these nuclei alter their position during life , and that , as they move in one or other direction , a ntiarrow line of niew muscular tissue ( fibrilla ) is as it were left behind t. This is added to the muscular tissue already formed , and thus the muscle increases .

