IV .
Some Philosophical Experiments , communicated by the Right Honourable Sir Robert Southwell , V. P. R. S. 1 .
To make the Globe Looking-glass .
' TAke Quicksilver , Marchasite of Silver , each Three Ounces , Tin and Lead , each half an Ounce ; these Two first throw on the Marchasite , and last of all the Quicksilver , stir them well together , but they must be taken from the Fire , and be towards cooling before the Quicksilver be added ; let your Glass be well warmed , then pour out the Mixture , and roll it from side to side .
Note , This will do also when cold , but it is best when the Glass is heated and very dry .
Note also , That if at the Glass House , your Ball be of Yellow Glass , then all will shine like Gold .
2 .
To Paint a Globe-Glass , or any other , in Marble Colour .
FIrst grind well upon a Stone some Minium for Red .
2 .
Radix Curcumae , or rather Cerussa Citrina for Yellow .
3 .
Smalt for Blew .
4 .
Verdegrease for Green .
5 .
Cerusse , or Chalk , for White .
Which being all separately wrought in Oil , take a Brush of Hogs Hair , mix in any of the said Colours , and it will , being rolled in your Hand , scatter the same upon the Glass ; then with your Pencil work them together as you think fit ; and lastly , fling a little Mead amongst them , which covers all .
3 .
The Magic Lanthorn .
THere are every where made of these Lanthorns to represent and magnify Figures upon a Wall , but then it is only in the Dark , wherefore to give Variety of Colours , Take Oil of Spike , and therein mix the several Colours , wherewith you will have your Glass to be stained , paint them finely on , they dry presently , and penetrate any Glass .
4 .
Phosphorus Metallorum .
TAke Lapis Smaragdi Mineralis ( such as is found in the Mines of Saxony ) and beat it into a very fine Powder .
If you strew this very fine on any Metal , and in any Figure , and set the Plate on any hot Coals , in a short time you will perceive in the Dark , a Light to shine , which will ( saith my Author ) last as long as you continue the hot Coals , and if you beat out the Fire , it may do again for once or twice , but then the Virtue will

