287 Some Effects of Nitrogen-fixing Bacteria on the Growth of Leguminous Plants .
By W.B. Bottomley , M.A. , Professor of Botany in King 's College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. J. Reynolds Green , F.R.S. Received April 20 , \#151 ; Read .
May 6 , 1909 .
) During the course of an investigation on " The Cross-inoculation of the nodule-forming bacteria from Leguminous and non-Leguminous plants , " * it was noticed that in all the bacterial cultures prepared from the algal zone of the root-tubercles of cycads taken from below the surface of the soil , Pseudomonas radicicola was associated with a species of In order to determine to what extent , if any , this association gave an increased power of assimilating free nitrogen , the two forms were obtained as pure cultures by successive platings on a medium composed of maltose 20 grammes , monobasic potassium phosphate 0*5 gramme , sodium chloride 0'5 gramme , calcium carbonate ( 45 gramme , ferrous sulphate 0T gramme , agar 15 grammes , and distilled water 1000 c.c. Separate cultures of each and a mixed culture were then grown in fluid media in duplicate 500 c.c. Erlenmeyer flasks containing 250 c.c. of the above medium , omitting the agar but adding 10 grammes of mannite .
Control flasks were kept side by side with the inoculated flasks .
All the flasks were incubated at 24 ' C. for 15 days , care being taken to renew the air in the flasks at intervals , then a nitrogen determination was made of the contents of each flask .
The results of these analyses gave the following averages:\#151 ; Control ... ... ... ... ... .
048 milligramme N per 100 c.c. Pseudomonas alone ... ... .
0*91 , , " " Pseudomonas + Azotobacter ... P24 Hence Pseudomonas and Azotobacter together make a powerful combination for the fixation of free nitrogen .
The bacteria in the root-tubercles of cycads appear to live imbedded in the slime they produce outside the cortical cells in the open spaces of the so-called algal zone .
The cortical cells which project into this zone presumably absorb the nitrogenous products of the bacterial activity , and thus the cycad is benefited .
If , therefore , this combination of bacteria outside the cortical cells is a direct benefit to the cycas plant , the possibility presented itself that * Report British Association , 1907 .
288 Prof. Bottomley .
Effects of Nitrogen-fixing [ Apr. 20 , a mixed culture of Pseudomonas and Azotobacter applied directly to the roots of other non-leguminous plants might benefit their growth also .
The first experiments were made on oats { Arena sativa ) .
Four 5-inch pots were filled with sand freed as far as possible from organic matter and nitrates , and given a sufficient dressing of phosphates , potash , and lime .
Twenty oat seeds were planted in each pot , and as soon as the young plants were about 1 inch high two of the pots were watered with a mixed culture of Pseudomonas and Azotobacter grown in the previously mentioned medium .
The plants were watered regularly with distilled water and allowed to grow until the untreated plants exhibited signs of drooping .
Each plant was then carefully air dried and weighed , with the following result:\#151 ; Untreated , average weight per plant ... .
042 gramme Treated ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
074 " an increase of 0'32 gramme , or 76 per cent. In 1908 , field experiments were made on barley .
Two plots , each having an area of 484 square yards , were planted , one with seed moistened with the mixed culture , the other with seed untreated .
The land was very poor and low in organic nitrogen , having carried oats in 1906 and barley in 1907 .
The yield of grain per plot at harvest was :\#151 ; Untreated ... ... ... .
608 lb. Treated ... ... ... ... 691 " an increase of 83 lb. , or 13'6 per cent. On the same farm a strip of land was sown with treated seed through the centre of a 34-acre barley field .
It was found impossible at harvest to keep the yield of treated seed separate from the rest , but samples of grain from the treated and untreated parts were taken and analysed , and it was found that the barley from the treated seed had the higher nitrogen-content .
Milligrammes Weight of Milligramme of N per cent. 1000 corns .
N per corn .
Untreated ... ... 1'55 48'5 0'75 Treated ... ... . .
1'76 49'5 0'87 Experiments on hyacinths { Galtonia ) grown in sandy soil .
The soil was dressed with lime in August , 1907 , and remained fallow until April , 1908 , when it was manured with cow manure\#151 ; 10 tons to the acre .
Bulbs of equal size were then planted , 250 in each bed , a path of 14 inches dividing the two beds .
The treated bulbs were twice watered with mixed culture solution , once in May and once in June , the control bed being watered with pure water at the same time .
The difference between the treated and 1909 .
] Bacteria on the Groivth of non-Leguminous Plants .
289 untreated bulbs was very noticeable during growth , the treated being more vigorous .
The treated bulbs , when lifted , were noticeably larger than the untreated .
After the bulbs were dry they were carefully weighed , and yielded Untreated ... ... . .
69 lb. 3 oz. Treated ... ... ... 82 " 1|- " an increase of 12 lb. 14| oz. , or 18'6 per cent. Experiments on parsnips grown in ordinary garden soil .
In January , 1908 , the ground was deeply dug and given a medium dressing of London dung followed by a dressing of powdered chalk .
The seeds were sown early in February in rows running north and south .
A fortnight after the north half of each row was watered with a mixed culture of Pseudomonas and Azotobacter .
In January , 1909 , the roots were harvested , every root being weighed , with the following results:\#151 ; Untreated ... ... 68 roots 22 lb. 14 oz. 5'38 oz. , average per root Treated ... ... . .
65 " 26 " 10 " 6'55 " " an increase of 2F7 per cent. For the fixation of free nitrogen in laboratory cultures of Pseudomonas and Azotobacter the presence of carbonate of lime in the medium is necessary .
In all the above experiments care was taken that a sufficiency of carbonate of lime was present in the soil to enable the bacteria to do their work effectively .

