1879 .
] Dr. Roberts .
On a Milk-curdling Ferment .
II .
" Note on the Existence of a Milk-curdling Ferment in the Pancreas .
" By William Roberts , M.D. , F.R.S. , Physician to the Manchester Royal Infirmary .
Received May 10,1879 .
In the course of some observations on the digestion of milk by extract of pancreas , I found that the milk passed through a more or less pronounced phase of curdling , which often considerably delayed the complete peptonising of the casein .
As the property of curdling milk has hitherto been regarded as the special appanage of the gastric ferment , I was unprepared to find it also associated with the ferments of the pancreas .
There is , however , no doubt about the fact , at least in regard to the pancreas of the pig , the ox , and the sheep .
It was found that extract of pancreas made with saturated solution of sodium chloride had much stronger curdling powers than the glycerine extract , whereas the latter had stronger proteolytic powers than the former .
This indicates that the curdling ferment of the pancreas is distinct from the proteolytic ferment ( the trypsin of Kiihne ) , just as it has been recently shown that the curdling ferment of the stomach is distinct from pepsine .
The brine extract of pancreas , or pancreatic rennet , as it may be called , seems to act on milk exactly in the same way as rennet made from the calf 's stomach .
It coagulates casein actively , both in neutral and in alkaline milk , and it may be assumed as probable\#151 ; at least until further inquiry\#151 ; that the curdling agent of the stomach and the curdling agent of the pancreas are one and the same ferment .
III .
" On some Recent Improvements made in the Mountings of the Telescopes at Birr Castle .
" By the Earl of Rosse , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. ( Abstract deferred .
) IY .
" The Measurement of the Ratio of Lateral Contraction to Longitudinal Extension in a Body under Strain .
" By A. Mallock .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received May 17 , 1879 .
The three coefficients which define the elastic properties of isotropic solids , viz. , the simple rigidity ( w ) , Young 's modulus ( ^)\gt ; and the elasticity of volume ( \amp ; ) are connected by the equations 2 n(fi+Y)=q=3k ( 1\#151 ; 2/ t ) .
The quantity fi or the ratio of lateral contraction to longitudinal extension , the measurement of which forms the subject of this paper ,

