1872 .
] The Astronomer Royal 's Magnetical Observations .
85 rejected zinc from Kirchhoffs list , and agreed with him in rejecting aluminium .
It need scarcely be added that these lines are in each case the longest lines in the spectrum of the metal .
The help which these determinations afford to the study of the various cyclical changes in the solar spectra is then referred to .
December 19 , 1872 .
Sir GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , K.C.B. , President , followed by Mr. BUSK , Vice-President , and Dr. SIBSON , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " Magnetical Observations in the Britannia and Conway Tubular Iron Bridges .
" By Sir George Biddell Airy , K.C.B. , P.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received October 12 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The author states that he was first induced to make these experiments by consideration of the perpetual tremor to which the iron of these structures is subjected , and which appeared likely to have made them unusually sensitive to the production of induced and perhaps subpermanent magnetism .
The experiments were actually conducted by Mr. James Carpenter ( then Assistant at the Royal Observatory ) , with the friendly cooperation of Captain Tupman , R.M.A. Permission was given by the Directors of the London and North-Western Railway Company , and every possible assistance was given by the resident Officers of the Company , with a degree of zeal and liberality which cannot be too highly appreciated .
The observations were made in the axis of each tube , a large step-ladder and stage adapted to the circumstances having been provided ; the observations made were those of disturbed magnetic azimuth , disturbed time of vibration of a horizontal needle , and disturbed dip .
The places of observation were :\#151 ; in each line of the Britannia Bridge , a station on each of its five supporting towers and a station in the middle of each of the four sections of the continuous tube , and also stations in the prolongations of the axis of the bridge to a considerable distance in each direction , making in all twenty stations ; and in the Conway bridge , stations in each line at the piers and in the middle of the tube , and also distant stations in the prolongation of the axis of the bridge , making eight stations in all .
The means of the results at each station are given in a Table .
Por further treatment , the means of those means for collateral stations are used ; and the means of those for the two distant stations at each bridge are adopted as giving undisturbed local constants .
By treatment of Prof. W. C. Williamson the Fossil [ Dec. 19 , these in steps exhibited in several successive Tables , results are found for the magnetic disturbance in the three directions , longitudinal , transversal , and vertical ; and these are compared with the terrestrial forces in the same directions .
The principal results are , that the transversal and vertical parts of terrestrial magnetism are absolutely neutralized , and the terrestrial longitudinal force is diminished by about one fourth part .
An anomaly presented itself in the results for the station at the middle of the Anglesey Wate-tube , which induced the author to inquire of Edwin Clark , Esq. ( the actual Superintendent of the construction of the bridges ) , whether any peculiarity of material could explain it .
Mr. Clark immediately remarked that this was the tube which , in the act of raising the sections of the tube , sustained a fall of several inches , undoubtedly straining the tube very greatly .
It appears almost beyond doubt that this accident is the cause of the anomalous magnetic condition of that section of the tube .
Mr. Clark remarks that it is an interesting fact , if established , that the result of an accident which occurred about a quarter of a century ago can still be traced in the magnetic condition of the tube .
The results in the Conway bridge , for transversal and vertical action , are in perfect agreement with those for the Britannia bridge ; but the results for longitudinal disturbance do not present the same agreement .
The Conway bridge , however , is nearly at right angles to the magnetic meridian ; and it appears probable that its magnetical state depends on the circumstances of its construction , when its Holyhead end was in a direction about 48 ' 50 ' west of north , in which position it would receive much magnetism , which the forces subsequently acting on it could not remove .
II .
" On the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures.\#151 ; Part IY .
Dictyoxylon , , and Heterangium .
" By W. C. Williamson , F.B.S. , Professor of Natural History in Owens College , Manchester .
Received December 4 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) In 1866 Mr. Binney gave the name of Dadoxylon Oldhamium to a fossil stem of a plant from the Lower Coal-measures of Lancashire , believing it to belong to the same class of Grymnospermous Exogens as the Pinites of Witham and the Dadoxylon of Endlicher .
In 1869 the author pointed out that the reticulated markings upon the surface of its vessels were modifications of the spiral fibre of fibro-vascular tissue , and not the disks of what is often designated glandular fibre .
He consequently separated the plant from the Dadoxylons under the name of Dictyoxylon Oldhamium .
At the Edinburgh Meeting of the British Association in 1871 he gave a brief account of the structure of this plant , as also of what appeared to be a second species from the Lower Coal-measures of Burntisland in Fife-

