XXVII .
Catalogue of One Thousand new Nebulae and Clusters of Stars .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F. R. S. Read April 27 , 1786 .
THE following Catalogue , which contains one thousand new Nebulae and Clusters of stars , is extracted from a series of observations ( or Sweeps of the heavens ) , which was begun in the year 1783 , and which I am still continuing till the whole be completed .
As I may , perhaps , find an opportunity hereafter to publish these observations at full length , I shall now only mention such circumstances , relating to the instrument and apparatus with which they were made , as will be necessary to show what degree of accuracy may be expected in the determination of the places of these Nebulae and Clusters of stars ; and also to serve any astronomer , who wishes to review them , to form a judgment what instrument will suffice for this purpose .
The telescope I have used , as has been observed on a former occasion * , is a Newtonian reflector of 20-feet focal length , and 187/ 10 inches aperture .
The sweeping power has been 157 , except where another is expressly mentioned .
The field of view 15~ 4~ .
My eye-glass is mounted on that side of an octagon tube , which , in the horizontal position of the instrument , makes an angle of 45~ with the vertical ; having found , by experience , that this position , resembling the situation of a reading desk , is * Philosophical Transactions , vol. LXXIV .
p. 437 .
preferable to the perpendicular one commonly used in the Newtonian construction .
In the present improved state of the apparatus this telescope will , in general , give the relative place of an object by a single observation true to within 11/ 2 or 2 minutes of polar distance , and 4 or 6 seconds of time in right ascension .
But when there is an opportunity of repeating the observation , it will hardly differ a single minute in the former , and seldom so much as 3 or 4~ in the latter .
My apparatus , however , has not been equally perfect from the beginning ; for , being from time to time adapted to the different views I had in sweeping , it could only arrive to its present degree of perfection by many experiments and gradual improvements .
To begin a short history of this 20-feet telescope .
In the month of October of the already mentioned year I began to use it , being then mounted on its present stand , but with a lateral motion under the point of support of the great speculum , by which its direction could be changed about 15 degrees .
It had also a kind of moveable gallery in front , about nine feet long , which permitted me to follow a celestial object near 15 degrees more ; by which means I obtained a range of 30 degrees without moving the stand .
The Newtonian form has the capital advantage of rendering observations equally commodious in all altitudes ; I had therefore placed the instrument in the meridian , that I might view the stars in their most favourable situation .
When I had seen most of the objects I wished to examine , I proceeded to the work of a general review of the heavens .
The first method that occurred was , to suffer the telescope to hang freely in the center ; then , walking backwards and forwards on the moveable gallery , I drew the instrument from that position by a handle fastened to a place near the eye-glass , so as to make it follow me , and perform a kind of very slow oscillations of 12 or 14 degrees in breadth , each taking up generally from 4 to 5 minutes of time .
At the end of each oscillation I made a short memorandum of the objects I chanced to see ; and when a new nebula or cluster of stars came in my way , I made a delineation of the stars in the field of view , both of the finder and of the telescope , that it might serve me to find them again .
This being done , the instrument was , by means of a fine motion under my hands , either lowered or raised about 8 or 10 minutes , and another oscillation was then performed like the first .
Thus I continued generally for about 10 , 20 , or 30 oscillations , according as circumstances would permit ; and the whole of it was then called a Sweep , and as such numbered and registered in my journal .
When I had completed 41 Sweeps , the disadvantages of this method were too evident to proceed any longer .
By going into the light so often as was necessary to write down my observations , the eye could never return soon enough to that full dilatation of the iris which is absolutely required for delicate observations .
The difficulty also of keeping a proper memorandum of the parts of the heavens which had been examined in so irregular a manner , intermixed with many short and long stops while I was writing , as well as the fatigue attending the motion , upon a not very convenient gallery , with a telescope in my hands of no little weight , especially at the extremes of the oscillations , where it made a considerable arch upwards , were sufficient motives to induce me to look out for another method of sweeping .
And it is evident , that the places of nebulae hitherto determined , which was till the 13th of December , 1783 , must be liable to great inaccuracy .
I therefore began now to sweep with a vertical motion ; and as this increased the labour of continually elevating and depressing the telescope by hand , I called in the assistance of a workman to do that part of the business , by which means I could observe very commodiously , and for a much longer time than before .
Soon after I removed also the only then remaining obstacle to seeing well , by having recourse to an assistant , whose care it was to write down , and at the same time loudly to repeat after me , every thing I required to be written down .
In this manner all the descriptions of nebulae and other observations were recorded ; by which I obtained the singular advantage that the descriptions were actually writing and repeating to me while I had the object before my eye , and could at pleasure correct them , whenever they disagreed with the picture before me without looking from it .
In about half a dozen sweeps , done according to this new way , I found that the stars of FLAMSTEED'S Catalogue entered nearly at the time when they were expected ; this suggested the possibility of converting my telescope into a transit instrument .
By way of trial , Dec. 18 , 1783 , I began to use a watch , and noted the times of the transits of stars and nebulae to the nearest minute ; and , this succeeding , Dec. 24 , a sidereal time-piece was introduced .
I found also that , by the turns of the handle which gave motion to the telescope , it was practicable , in a coarse way , to ascertain the difference of altitude between any two objects that passed the field of view ; on which account , Dec. 30 , I began to use an index-board , divided into inches , and marked with numbers , which , being placed behind the rope that moved the telescope , would point out at what altitude a certain index , affixed to the rope , was situated .
My tackle of ropes and pullies was such that , while the telescope traversed an arch of two degrees , the mark on the rope passed over about 24 inches of the index-board : but the exact measure was always to be determined experimentally , as it varied according to the situation of the instrument .
I perceived immediately that the quantity of rope used in the motion of the telescope would be much better observed by the assistant , if the index were brought within doors near the writing desk : to effect this , I used a small cord , which , being led off from the great one , was carried over a pulley into the observatory , so as to pass over a set of numbers , which I now divided into such parts as , in an equatorial situation of the instrument , would give nearly each equal to one minute .
It would exceed the limits of this Paper to enumerate the various trials I made to bring the right ascension to greater perfection ; such as causing the tube sometimes to hang inclining or rubbing against a perpendicular plane ; at others , drawing it against the same by a small weight , fastened to a cord , passing over a side pulley , &amp;c. I shall also pass over the several changes in the form of the machine showing the polar distance , which , for convenience sake , was soon brought to an index moving over a dial , in the manner of a clock .
By way of directing the person who gives motion to the telescope , a small machinery was added , which strikes a bell at each extreme of the breadth of the sweep , and is adjustable to any required number of turns of the handle .
In June , 1784 , I introduced a small quadrant of altitude , the use of which became soon after of the greatest consequence in determining the value of the numbers of the polar distance piece .
Hitherto I had settled this value by causing a star to pass vertically through the field of the finder , which was very accurately limited to two degrees ; but now I found , by many comparisons between the degree determined by the quadrant and by the finder , that I had generally under-rated the value of the numbers .
Fortunately so many stars of FLAMSTEED'S Catalogue had been taken , that the numbers between their different polar distances were sufficient to recover the value of the degree ; but this occasioned a laborious re-calculation of the places of all objects taken in near 300 sweeps .
The quadrant being once introduced , I carried the refinements of the determination , in high sweeps where the ropes acted very unequally , so far as to ascertain by it separately the value of every 20 or 30 minutes throughout the whole breadth of a sweep of two degrees , and the numbers were then accordingly cast up by so many different tables calculated on purpose .
Being still disappointed in many instances , when , on a review of a nebula whose place I had before determined , I perceived a difference of 4 or 5 minutes in polar distance , I began at last entirely to new model the machinery of the polar distance piece , and on Sept. 24 , 1785 , completed one with the following capital improvements .
My former piece showed a set of numbers whose value differed in every situation of the telescope , and therefore required different and very extensive tables to cast them up in degrees and minutes .
This shows at once both the degree and minute of the polar distance of every celestial object , without requiring any tables to cast up numbers .
In the next place , the considerable inaccuracy arising from the unequal tension of the great ropes , and their expansion or contraction by moisture or dryness , is entirely taken away ; for now my index cord is contrived so as to go off from the front of the telescope itself , in the direction of a tangent to the arch it describes when moving ; by which means this cord will even serve as an hygrometer to show the variations of the ropes that suspend the telescope .
If a shower of rain , for instance , should shorten them so as to elevate the telescope 2 , 4 , or 6 minutes , which has happened sometimes , notwithstanding they have all been well saturated with oil , the index cord will immediately make the polar-distance-clock show this effect of the rain , by pointing out an equal change on the dial .
As to the variations of the cord itself , they are in the first place very trifling , since it consists merely of a few threads of hemp , very loosely twisted , well oiled , and always equally stretched ; but especially these variations are of no consequence , as they are so easily to be discovered by the check of the quadrant of altitude affixed to the telescope , or the successive transits of known stars , and may either be immediately corrected by the adjustable hand of the polar distance dial , or be left to be accounted for afterwards .
The improvement of the right ascension has not been less attended to ; and the Royal Society having kindly entrusted me with an excellent time-piece , I succeeded at last by means of the addition of the following apparatus .
Against the side of the tube is fixed a vertical iron plate , and the point of suspension of the telescope is disposed so as to permit this plate to be just in contact with a roller which remains fixed during the time of a sweep .
There is also a considerable spring applied on the opposite side , in such a manner as , by always exerting a pressure nearly uniform , to cause the iron plate to rub against the fixed roller as the telescope sweeps up and down .
By this means I have frequently , in very stormy weather , observed many hours without finding my time materially affected , and the corrections will seldom , in accurate observations , exceed a few seconds .
To those who are accustomed to the accuracy of transit instruments in regular observatories , this telescope , notwithstanding the above-mentioned improvements , may perhaps appear far from being brought to perfection ; but they should recollect the size of the instrument as well as its extensive use , since I can not only follow any object for near a quarter of an hour , without disturbing the situation of the apparatus , but can at pleasure , in a few minutes , turn it to any part of the heavens , and view a celestial object wheresoever it may chance to be situated , even the zenith not excepted .
From this account it will be understood , that the places of a few of the nebulae and clusters of stars , determined before the 13th of December , 1783 , may be faulty in right ascension as far as 1~ of time , and in polar distance to 8 or 10~ of space .
Afterwards the errors will be found to become gradually less considerable till the latter end of the year 1784 , when , I suppose , they will seldom exceed half that quantity .
From that period to Sept. 24 , 1785 , they will diminish , and probably not often amount to so much as 3 or 4~ in polar distance , and 10 or 12~ in right ascension .
And now I flatter myself that all places , determined since the last mentioned time , will generally be true to a very small quantity ; such as 4 or 6~ in right ascension , and 11/ 2 or 2~ in polar distance , and often much nearer .
Some of the nebulae in that part of the heavens which , in a former Paper , I have called the stratum of Coma Berenices , are indeed so crowded that there was no possibility of taking them all in the center of the field of view , and a somewhat less degree of accuracy may therefore be expected ; but having used myself by very frequent estimations of the parts of the field of view to judge of their value in time as well as in space , I corrected this defect at the moment of observation by affixing to the transits of these excentric nebulae such proper marks of plus or minus in right ascension and polar distance as I judged would bring them to a central observation .
A similar method , well known to good astronomers in estimating their tenths of seconds by the proportional space over which the stars move in their meridian passage , makes it unnecessary to expatiate on the degree of accuracy that long practice enables us herein to obtain .
If , however , I had been willing to delay giving this catalogue till , by a repeated review of the heavens , the places had been more accurately determined , the work would undoubtedly have been more perfect ; but whoever considers that it requires years to go through such observations will perhaps think with me , that it is the best way to give them in their present state , if it were but to announce the existence of such objects by way of inducing other astronomers also to look out for them .
Another motive for not delaying this communication is to show that my late endeavours to delineate the construction of the heavens have been guided by a careful inspection of them ; and , probably , a catalogue which points out no less than one thousand instances of such systems as those are into which I have shown the heavens to be divided , will considerably support what has been said on this subject in my two last Papers .
When the diurnal motion of the earth was first maintained , it could not but greatly add to the reception of this opinion when the telescope exposed to our view Jupiter , Mars , and Venus , revolving on their axes * ; and if these instances of * To these may now also be added Saturn , on whose body I have , in the year 1780 , seen several belts , with spots that changed their situation in the course of a few nights .
the similar condition of other planets support the doctrine of the diurnal motion , the view of so many sidereal systems , some of which we may discern to be of a most surprising extent and grandeur , will in like manner add credit to what I have proposed with regard to the condition of our situation within a system of stars : for , to the inhabitants of the nebulae of the present catalogue , our sidereal system must appear either as a small nebulous patch ; an extended streak of milky light ; a large resolvable nebula ; a very compressed cluster of minute stars hardly discernible ; or as an immense collection of large scattered stars of various sizes .
And either of these appearances will take place with them according as their own situation is more or less remote from ours .
In the distribution of the nebulae and clusters of stars into classes , I have partly considered the convenience of other observers : thus , in the first class , the degree of brightness of the nebulae has been the leading feature , as most likely to point out those which their several instruments may give them expectation to reach .
The first class , therefore , contains the brightest of them ; the second , those that shine but with a feeble light ; and in the third are placed all the very faint ones .
Besides this general division , I have added a fourth and a fifth class , which contain nebulae that , on different accounts , seemed to deserve a more particular description than I had allotted to the three former divisions .
The clusters of stars are sorted by their apparent compression , in the manner of my former Catalogues of double , treble , and multiple stars ; so that the closest and richest clusters take up the first class ; the brightest , largest , and pretty much compressed ones , the second ; and those , which consist only of scattered and less collected large stars , are put into the last .
In every class the order of time when the nebulae and culsters of stars were discovered , or first observed with my 20feet telescope , has been followed ; and that I might describe all these objects in as small a compass as could well be done , I have used single letters to express whole words , an explanation of which , with an example of the manner of reading those letters , is given .
It should be observed , that all estimations of brightness and size must be referred to the instrument with which the nebulae and culsters of stars were seen ; the clearness and transparency of the atmosphere , the degree of attention , and many more particular circumstances , should also be taken into consideration ; so that probably some of the nebulae which I have called very bright , and very large , may only be just perceivable , as very small faint patches , in many of our best common telescopes .
The Identity of each nebula in this cataIogue has been well ascertained by a projection on a proper map , made on purpose , which pointed out all other nebulae near its place , and thus afforded the means of a rigorous examination .
When , therefore , several nebulae are found within the limits of the accuracy with which my telescope can discriminate them , in different nights , it may be concluded , that they were seen either at once in the same field of view , or otherwise in immediate succession during the same sweep .
In the same manner these nebulae have been compared with those that are contained in the two volumes of the Connoissance des Temps , for the years 1783 and 1784 , of which none have been inserted in this catalogue .
It was indeed easy enough to distinguish the nebulae of that excellent collection from those of mine which in several places are very near them : The quantity of good light in my telescope having enabled me , even in bright moon-light nights , to see occasionally some of the most feeble of the former , when the latter could not by any means be perceived .
Perhaps it will not be displeasing to those who may look out for some of the objects contained in this catalogue , to know that the pictures which were given in a former Paper representing the various shapes and appearances of several nebulae , have been actually taken from nature , by Drawings made of them while I had them in view ; I have therefore added a reference to these figures , as the descriptions of the originals which they represent occur in their order in the catalogue .
Arrangement of the columns , and explanations of the abbreviations .
The first column contains the class and number of the nebulae .
In the second are the dates when the nebulae were first observed .
The third column contains the star , or other object , by which the place has been determined .
In the fourth column the letter p or f shows that the nebula is either preceding or following the star .
In the fifth is the time , in sidereal minutes and seconds , by how much it precedes or follows the same star .
The letter n or s , contained in the sixth column , denotes that the nebula is north or south of the determining star .
In the seventh is the quantity , in degrees and minutes , by how much the nebula is more north or more south than the same star .
The eighth column contains the number of observations that have been made of each nebula ; and it is to be noted , that 21 Velpeculae f 2~ 6~ n 1~ 51~ 39 ( h ) Cygni p86s1 35 which , if there be no error in the place of the stars in FLAMSTEED 's Catalogue , differ about 14~ in polar distance , for which reason in the second Paper on the Construction of the Heavens this nebula was put down twice , whereas it now appears , that both observations belong to the same .
V. I. This nebula was discovered Sept. 23 , 1783 , by my sister CAROLINE HERSCHEL , with an excellent small Newtonian Swceper of 27 inches focal length , and a power of 30 .
I have therefore marked it with the initial letters , C. H. of her name .
See also V. 19 .
discovered Aug. 27 , 1783 , and VII .
13 .
discovered Feb. 26 , 1783 .
V. The Front-view is a method of using the reflecting telescope different from the Newtonian , Gregorian , and Cassagrain forms .
It consists in looking with the eye glass , placed a little out of the axis , directly in at the front , without the interposition of a small speculum ; and has the capital advantage of giving us almost double the light of the former constructions .
In the year 1776 I tried it for the first time with a 10 feet reflector , and in 1784 again with a 20 feet one ; but the success not immediately answering my expectations , it was too hastily laid aside .
By a more careful repetition of the same experiment I find now , that several other considerable advantages , added to the brilliant light before mentioned , make it so valuable a construction that a judicious observer may avail himself of it at least in all cases where light is more particularly wanted ; and from the experience of 30 sweeps , which I have already made with it , I may venture to announce it to be a very convenient and pleasant , as well as useful , way of observing .
With regard to the position of objects , it differs from other constructions , by inverting the north and south , but not the preceding and following .
Errata of the Catalogue .
The following nebulae should stand thus .
I. 54 .
35 ( ~ ) Andr .
f 18 36 s1 26 1 pB .
S. R. vgbM .
II .
1 .
41 Aquarii p 11 45 n0 17 2 F. cL .
mE .
bM .
er .
II .
239 .
In the description read The 2~ of two .

