]\gt ; In this table and are the emperatures at which the , change commences and finishes , according to denotes the mean specific hcat of substance weert .
I for temperatures below is the specific heat for beyond ; and is the heat absorbed by the unit weight of ) stance in consequence of of structure .
The ' .
accuracy of certain results and some probable ConClUSlorRt } discussed .
VIII .
' ( I. ) On a Property of Regulal Hyp and Epicycloids .
( II .
) On Theorems relating Regular Polyhedra which are analogous to those I Matthew Stewart on the Regular Polygons ) M. JEFFERY , F.B.S. Beceived June 3 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) I. Ou a Tangential Property of cloids 1 .
The following theorems will be established:\mdash ; ( A. ) The product of the perpendiculars drawn from all in each of these roulettes on any tangent is a function of the ) 1Idicular only , which is drawn on the same from the the fixed circle , on which the roulette is generated .
( B. ) The sums of the cotangents of the which to the rouJette makes with the vectors drawn from the cusp$ point of contact is a function of the of the angle the vect , or drawn from centre with the same tangent the perpendicular drawn from the centre .
2 .
bese propositions are extended to spherical geometry , dual forms stated both for planimetry and spherics .
106 Mr. H. M. Jeffery .
[ June 3 .
A proof will be hence derived for two general theorems o ular polygons given by Dr. Matthew Stewart ( Props .
39 , 42 ) , of which many others are special cases .
4 .
These propositions will first be elucidated by examples .
In the case of the regular hypocycloids , we may consider them as referred to line-coordinates , the polygon of reference being formed by the cusps .
If or Consequently by differentiating with respect to ( the inclination of a perpendicular on a tangent to the initial in the several cases on both sides Besant , Roulettes If where is a constant , and , . . .
denote the angles made by the tangent with the vectors from the cusps and centre .
5 .
In the epicycloid th ' same polygon of eference is used .
If , bhe unicuspid cardioid , .
Consequently , if The general theorems will now be established .
6 .
Let these perpendiculars from the cusps be expressed by gential polar coordinates , when the initial line is drawn from the centre to a cusp:\mdash ; . .
The artifice used by Gregory in a kindred-question Math. 1882 .
] On Hypocycloids , Epicycloids , Polyhedra .
107 vol. , p. 145 ) is here adopted .
Let Journ. , Cotes ' theorem is thereby applicable to determ no pro no the We must next express in terms of .
The exp.ression , is c.losely allied to the expansion of , is glven Todhunter 's " " Theory of Equations p. 183 .
Since , if we take the Iogarithm of both sides , and select the coefficient of .
It is also necessary to obtain the ascending series\mdash ; if , be an even integer , . . .
if be an odd integer .
7 .
The polar tangential equations to the regular hypocycloids and epicycloids are , is the radius of the fixed circle , and bears to the radius of the rolling circle the ratio Besant , Roulettes .
If we take the upper sign , and write\mdash ; , where .
Hence , . . . . . .
Icnce the general theorem is established for .
H. M. Jeffery .
June ] The series ends with the term or , according as is odd or even , as may be seen by the expansion of in an ascending series .
8 .
The equation to the regular epicycloid is , where .
Hence the formula for this epicycloid is . . . .
By the order in , it appears that no terms mvolving occur .
12 .
Proof of Stewart 's theorems .
Since the formulae of S 6 are general , they apply to a parallel line , on which porpondiculars are . .
The sums of the several powers of , . .
are obtained by taking the arithm , and diiferentiating on both sides\mdash ; ( This last quotient is remarkable , as it shows the matrix out of which these theorems of Dr. Stewart ) On cloids , cloids , and edra .
109 1882 .
] . . . .
By equating the several powers of , the several sums of powers are found .
This is the dual of Stewart 's Prop. 40 .
13 .
If in S 12 the line touch the circle , so that be S. ( Prop. 39 ) .
comes ) ) .
2.1 Lemma.\mdash ; Every product of consecu ve tive factors can be expressed as a sum of a product of lower consecutive factors .
Thus 1 .
as appears by the equating coefficients of in the identity Hence when in S 12 , .
14 .
Dr. Stewart 's general theorem ( Prob. 42 ) follows from the same formula as the former .
Il .
relating to the Tvegular Polyhedra , are to those of Dr. Matthew Stewart on the 1 .
These two general propositions may be thus stated in the } form : \mdash ; This formula is applicable to all five Platonic bodies , if be 1 , 2 .
3 ; if be 4 , 5 , and not larger , it is restricted to the dodecahedron and icosahedron .
( B. ) Under the same conditions as in ( A ) , if there be taken any point , whose distance from the centre is ( v ) , the sum of the powers of the distances of this point from all the summits be a function of its distance from the centre .
2 .
Following the analogy of plane geonletry , I propose to consider a gxoup of five surfaces , whose orthocr nal projections are the tricuspid and quadricuspid , and which have the property , that the product of the drawn on any tangent plane from all the summits of one of three regular polyhedra ( which are cuspidal points on those surfaces ) , is a function of that perpendicular only which is drawn on the same ffingent plane from the centre of the circumscribed about the polyhedron .
These three surfaces are by tangentia ] polyhedral coordinates referred to the three first of tlIe regular polyhedra .
( 1 ) ( 2 ) . .
( 3 ) ( 4 ) .
( 5 ) . .
3 .
By the results of examination in each case of the regular polyhedra , it is found that the continued product of the perpendiculars drawn from all their summits on any plane may be thus expressed in terms of that drawn from the Subscquent terms would involve the inclinations of lines and planes .
But the followlng scale is found to exist:\mdash ; 1882 .
] On Hypocycloids , Epicycloids , and ?
hedra .
111 where are found to the values : : : and would be is written in brief for 4 , For the continued product of the perpendiculars on a parnllel plane\mdash ; .
The sums of the several powers of , . .
are found by the logarithm , and differentiating on sides . . . . .
By equating the coefficients of like powers of where is restricted not to exceed 5 .
, is established the first proposition ( A ) of S 1 .
5 .
Proposition ( B ) of S 2 is proved as in S 4 .
The form , being universal , is equally applicable , when , .
are used to denote the constants in the expression for distances , as\mdash ; Writ .
in this form\mdash ; cussion of the first surface of the group .
tisfies both the required conditions of S 2 ; and no other surface \fnof ; g lm from the regular tetrahedron tisfies the tests .
Its quadriivalent in point-coordinates is of the tenth order .
projection on any face from its quadrantal pole , equation is , tricuspid hypocycloid ( see S 4 of Memoir I ) , .
, ascertain its form two sections have been taken , ( 1 ) by a face , a plane through an edge and a centre .
1 , when is , ti factors enote the three edges , which are conjugate double I , the last a tricuspid hypocycloid .
Let , or the surface be intersected by a AOB , which Lbhes through the edge AB , and bisects the edge CD perpendicularly .
give the sections of greatest and least curvature ; another tion superimposed vertically would give a clear conception of $l[l.Pace .
Hurface consists of six lobes , which are arranged in pairs , each .
being touched by the same asymptotic cone .
edges of the asymptotic tetrahedron are conjugate lines , as is Iso great circle at infinity .
In the same way the other surfaces are discussed and exhibited .
property ( B ) of Memoir I has its on this group of surand thelr duals .

