]\gt ; S A Linear Associative Algebra suitable for Electromagnetic Relations and the Theory of Relativity .
By W. J. JOHNSTON , M.A. , Assistant Professor of Pure Mathematics in the Uniyersity College of Wales , Aberystwyth .
( Communicated by Sir Joseph Larmor , F.R.S.\mdash ; Received August 28 , 1919 .
) Clifford has pointed out that geometricat algebras may be based on a system of fundamental units , , etc. , these units being alternate etc and the square of each unit being .
It can be proved that such a system is associative .
Such an algebra based on four fundamental units , , expresses in a remarkably simple manner the vector formulae of Minkowski and the electromagnetic relations .
The four fundamental units , together with their products , , etc. , ij'ko each with the factors in a definite order and the scalar unit 1 give a linear associative algebra of 16 units .
The scalar unit is commutative with the others , and the remaining 15 units may receive any interpretation , geometrical or otherwise , that is consistent with the distributive and associative principles .
The units will now be interpreted as mutually rectangular unit vectors in Euclidean space , and the unit as a unit vector in the fourth dimension perpendicular to each of the other three .
For the present application the other units , ijo , etc. , may remain uninterpreted .
The product of two vectors in four-dimensional space consists of two partial products .
One partial product is Minkowski 's " " six-vector.\ldquo ; The other partial product ( 2 ) is a scalar .
Put , where is the velocity of light , and is regarded as an uninterpreted symbolic scalar commutative with all the units etc. Then the position of the point ) at the time is represepted Mr. W. J. Johnston .
A Associative by the extremity in four-dimensional space of the vector drawn from the origin If we suppose that the two vectors , .
are drawn from the origin to two points in four-dimensional space , then the scalar ( 2 ) -OP .
OQ POQ But and similarly for and .
Thus the scalar ( 2 ) is invariant in the theory of relativity .
Lt the partial product ( 1 ) be multiplied by the vector then we have two partial products .
One is the sum of scalar multiples of , and the other is the sum of scalar ultiples of , ojk , oki , oij .
These the two\ldquo ; four vectors\ldquo ; instanced in Prof. Collway 's tract on p. 40 .
A vector factor may be replaced by a differential operator .
Put Then Let be the force in free ether on an electrostatic unit , the force on unit evnetic pole in the electromagnetic system , the scalar potential , and the vector potential .
Then the operation gives a scalar part .
( 3 ) It is known that this vanishes .
The other partial product is .
( 4 ) This is the " " six-vector\ldquo ; mentioned in Prof. Conway 's tract , p. 41 .
Algebra suitable for Blectromagnaetic Relations .
If we operate with on the expression ( 4 ) and the result is equated to zero , we obtain the eight equations These are Maxwell 's equations in the Hertz-Heaviside form .
The expression may be defined as the " " four-fold vector potential This has virtually been done by Minkowski .
Then the process just riven is equivalent to ( four-fold vector potential ) { expression ( 3 ) } { expression ( 4 ) } { expression ( 4 ) } Hence also Other details may be similarly expressed .
The operator corresponds to the quaternion operator ; and if it is borne in mind that is no longer replaceable by , etc. , the properties of are obtained by similar methods .

