Some new Experiments and Observations on the Combustion of gaseous Mixtures ; with an Account of a Method of preserving a continued Light in Mixtures of inflammable Gases and Air without Flame .
By Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read January 23 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 77 .
] Having shown , in a former communication , that the temperature of flame is considerably greater than that required for the ignition of solid bodies , the author thought it probable that , during the combination of certain gaseous substances , the heat evolved might be adequate to the incandescence of solid matters exposed to them , though insufficient to render the gases themselves luminous , or , in other words , to produce flame .
In a combustible mixture of coal-gas and air , the author suspended a small wire-gauze safe-lamp , in which some fine platinum wire was fixed above the flame ; and when the inflammation had taken place within the cylinder of gauze , the quantity of coal-gas was increased , under the idea that the heat acquired by the mixed gas in passing through the wire gauze would prevent the excess from extinguishing the flame .
When this happened , the wire of platinum continued to glow , though there was no inflamed gas in the cylinder ; so that the oxygen and coal-gas in contact of the wire seemed to burn without flame , and yet produced heat enough to keep the wire ignited .
This conclusion was verified by introducing a hot platinum wire into a proper mixture of coal-gas and air .
It became white hot , and continued so till the mixture had lost its inflammability .
Mixtures of other inflammable gases afforded similar phenomena , and likewise several inflammable vapours , as those of ether , alcohol , oil of turpentine , and naphtha .
In these experiments , platinum wire is most successfully used ; for it does not tarnish , and its radiating powers are slight .
Palladium answers nearly as well ; but the phenomena are not witnessed when wires of silver , copper , or iron are employed .
It is suggested that many theoretical views will arise from the connexion of the facts detailed in this communication with those presented to the Society in the author 's former paper on flame ; and practical applications may also flow from the same source .
By hanging some fine platinum wire , for instance , above the wick of his safety-lamp , the coal-miner will be lighted in mixtures containing such excess of fire-damp as to be no longer explosive ; and where the flame is extinguished , the metal will become sufficiently luminous to guide him , while its relative brightness in different parts of the mine will indicate the state of the air , and its fitness for respiration ; for when the foul air forms two fifths of the volume of the atmosphere , the ignition of the wire ceases .

