]\gt ; May 9 , 1889 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. Baron Henry de Worms was admitted into the Society .
The ving Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On the lIagnetic Rotation of the Plane of Polarisation of Light in doubly refracting Bodies By A. W. VVARD .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOMSON , F.R.S. Received April 13 , 1889 .
In reatino Will .oiment on the rotation of the plane of polarisation of in a disk of glass , placed with its axis of rotation to the lines of force in a netic held , ib was observed that the incident plane polarised light became elliptically polarised .
The elliptic polarisation was due to the which had the effect of the glass along the radii disk amd essing it parallel to the axis of rotation .
The stlained glass in the magnetic { ield has , efore , the double property of clliptically polarising plane polarised light , and at the same time .
the plane of polarisation .
The strained glass efore acbed like a crystal placed a field , and so Villari 's experiment could interpreted , it was necessary to examine ho the elliptic polarisation and nebic rotation affect each other .
The following ation is an attempt to solve this question , and onclusions show that apparent otation i a doubl .
acoive medium is a periodic function of the length of the path of light in the medium .
This result entirely accounts for the observed by Villari , and those observed by .
in a piece of compressed glass .
Let the axes of the doubly refracting netic medium be taken those of and , and let the axis the ection in which the light travels .
Let be the inclination of the plane of tion of the incident .
to that of .
The equation of the incidentlight may be }vritten , ' Rendiconti del tituto Lourbardo , ' 9 June , 1870 .
VOL. XLVI .
Mr. A. W. Ward .
On the Magnetic Rotation [ May 9 , where is the intensity of the light , and the other symbols have their usual meanings .
Let be the angular retardation in passing through the crystalThen the equation of the e elliptically arised light is ( vt\mdash ; z ) The inclination of the axis of this ellipse to the axis of is given by Tn this equation is a function of and where and are the refractive indices along the axes of and respectively .
We may , therefore , put equal to whers is a constant for the same medium and wave-length .
Hence is a function of and we can find the increase in due , to an increase in .
It is .
iven by or This equatiox ] gives us the rotation of the pIane of polarisation to the doubly reftigature of the medium , while the light passes through a thickness .
Let us suppose the eifect of the magnetic rotation on the light traversing the element , may be represented by an additional rotation of these axes where is a constant depending on the nature of the medium and the strength of the magnetic field .
Hence , when both these small effects are superposed we get Let us denoto by the value of when is positive , and its value when is negative .
Then the rent magnetic rotation is .
say .
We have This equation is easily integrated when is ] ] .
In that case of the Ptane of tion of Light .
we may write for , and for , where is the value of when .
Since have , putting equai to Iaking these subsbitutions the differential equation becomes Put for brevity , and the integral of the cquation becomes It ) is asiJy shown that Substituting we find : It ppcars from this equation that is a pel.iodic function of , the being If we make small , we may put , and the equation becomef ; .
A. W. Ward .
On the Jfagnetic Rotation [ May 9 , an equation which gives the true magnetic rotation , as of course it should do .
, so that becomes infinite , the equation becomes except when takes an indeterminate form .
In this case the light is circularly polarise To examine this equation generally it .
is advisable to write it somewhat differently .
Let us put where is the true magnetic rotation , and is the total expressed as an angle .
Hence If then we trace the curve , the l.atio of at any point us the ratio of the apparent to the trus rotation when With regard to the curve , , it should be observed that whenever is a multiple of , and that when is an even multiple of , and when is an odd multiple of .
Since all along the tangent at the origin we may take the tangent to represent the rotation , so that Tracings of the cnrve when and 10 respectively are givell below .
Tt appears from these curves that when apparent rotation is greater thau the real rotation if is less than 80 , hile if is equal to is always less than 1 .
When sma 11 it is easy 1889 .
] of Plane of Polarisation of Light .
to see that the ] of is gl'eater or less than nity , according is greater or less than unity .
For if is ) ction which is .
or less than 1 according as is llcgatite or positive .
The cnlve tracings also show that the appal'cnt lotation changes signwhe)lever is ally multiple of a ) right angle .
[ If is greater than , equal say to , where is less a right aIlgle , then if is even , ; if is odd , quantities become very smal ] when is ] In the case of quartz one centimetre thick , where the ection of ray of light makes an angle of with optic very nearly .
Hence in this case is about at best , which gives a value of quite inappreciable by any methods .
To find the true magnetic rotation in we must use thin scctions about mm. , and should be equal to 1 .
70 Magnetic Rotation of the Plane of Polarisation .
[ May , This vaIue for accounts for the facb that doubly refracting bodies do not exhibit any rotation of the plane of polarisation , * if the ection of the ray of light is inclined to the optic axis .
When light goes through a crystal in the direction of the optic axis , magnetic rotation has been observed .
E. Becquerel has observed rotation in tourmalin and rock , while Wertheim has detected a wellmarked rotation in beryl , a feeble one in quartz , but nothing in Iceland spar .
[ Ludtge determined the magnetic rotation along the optic axis of quartz and at various inclinations .
The following table gives his results and the corresponding values of :\mdash ; Inclination to optic axis . . . . . .
Rotation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 Retardation ( [ 3 ) 13 52 117 325 Ludtge adds that these figures are not to be taken as giving exact rements .
No magnetic rotation has been observed in Iceland spar even along the optic axis , and it is worthy of note that in this crystal very rapidly increases with the inclination to the optio axis .
If the length of the spar be 1 centimetre , then at an incIination of to the optic axis for line , while in quartz \mdash ; May 14 .
] Wertheim has also shown that if a piece of heavy glass be compressed , the magnetic rotation is diminished , even when the retardation due to the doubly refracting nature of the compressed glass much less than a wave-length .
Ludtge 's experiments on glass show again how the magnetic rotation is diminished as the doubly refracting property increases .
Liidtge gives the following table , where represents part of a wave-length retardation and the magnetic rotation:\mdash ; n. . . .
O These results cannot be directly compared with what we shouId expect from a crystal , since the ends of the glass are free from strain , and a rotation is there produced , which is observed .
Villari 's results are very similar to Ludtge 's .
Villari , by spinning a disk of glass very rapidly , strained , and on observing the magnet rotation found it get less and less as the strain got and greater .
There is , however , one noticeable diiference between Wiedemann , ' Die der Elektricitat , ' vol. 3 , sec. 1097 .
Wertheim , ' Count .
Rend vol. 32 .
dtge , ' Poggendorff , Annalen , ' vol. 137 .
1889 .
] Revision of the Atormc Weight of Gold .
Villal'i 's strained disk and Ludtge 's strained prism .
The disk was free from strain in the middle , the prism free from strain at the ends .
I repeated Villari 's experiment at the Cavendish Laboratory , using , at Mr. 's suggestion , an elliptic analyser to detsrmins the magnetic rotation .
With the disk spinning about 200 times a second , ths magnetic rotation was reduced to .
This is not so great a diminution as Villari observed , but his glass may have been softer and more easily strained .
Villari thought that the effect he observed was due to the time to magnetise the glass .
That this supposition was erroneous has been clearly established by the experiments of Bichat and Blondlot , recently repeated by .
Lodge .
In these experiments the oscillating discharge of a Leyden jar was found to rotate the plane of polarisation in time with the oscillations .
Before hearing of these results I had myseIf attacked the problem in a somewhat similar manner .
A coil of wire was wound round a piece of heavy glass , and a current alternated 250 times a second by a tuning-fork was sent through the coil .
The current was measured by a dynamometer and a tangent galvanometer .
The first gave the measure of the current iudependently of its sign , the second showed that the integral was zero .
When the current was passing it was found impossible to extinguish the light , owing to the rapid alternations of the plane of polarisation .
In conclnsion , I have to my thanks to Professor Thomsoll and Mr. Glazel)rook for many kind suggestions and encouragement , and especially to Professor Thomson for the privilege of using the Cavendish Laboratory .
II .
' Revision of the Atomic Weight of Gold By J. MALLET , , Professor of Chemistry in the [ Jniversity of Virginia .
Received Apri115 , 1889 .
After noticing and giving the results of the earlier determinations of the atomic weight of gold , and the recent researches of Kruss and of Thorpe and Laurie , the author eports upon experiments of his own in the same direction , which have occupied much of his time and labour for the last three or four years .
The diflicuIties connected with the accurate determination of the atomic weight of this metal , remarked upon , and the general principles are revie which to be observed in all investigations of this kind .
The means and methods of weighing used are stated , and the

