III .
' Notes of Researches on the Acids of the Lactic Series.-No .
IV .
Action of Zinc upon Oxalic Ether and the Iodides of Methyl and Ethyl mixed in atomic proportions .
" By E. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. and B. F. DUPPA , Esq. Received February 2 , 1865 .
The reaction of zinc upon oxalic ether in the presence of iodide of amyl , the results of which we hope very shortly to have the honour of laying before the Royal Society , had led us to anticipate , that if an oxalate of one organic radical were treated with the iodide of another , one atom of diatomic oxygen in the oxalic ether would be replaced by two different monatomic radicals .
This anticipation was not , however , realized , as we have already shown* , when the reaction was extended to a mixture of iodide of ethyl with oxalate of methyl , and iodide of methyl with oxalate of ethyl .
In both these cases the radicals presented in the form of iodides were the only ones entering into the composition of the resulting acids , which proved to have respectively the composition of leucic or diethoxalic acid , ' ( C2 , )2 I OH 20 and dimethoxalic acid , ( CHI-I )C OH 2O OH Certain theoretical considerations , however , rendered it important for us to be able distinctly to label each radical entering into the composition of the derived acids , so as to enable us with certainty to trace its source , and , if possible , to determine its position or value in the resulting complex molecule .
We therefore endeavoured to accomplish the desired end by acting with zinc upon a mixture consisting of one atom of oxalic ether and one atom each of the iodides of methyl and ethyl , by which we hoped to obtain an acid of the following composition:(C I-I , ClH3 C2 1 OH 0I [ OH Experiment completely proved the practicability of this reaction , and its result even exceeded our expectations , since not only was the ether corresponding to the above acid formed with the greatest facility , but it was produced almost to the complete exclusion of the ethers of leucic and dimethoxalic acids .
200 grms. of oxalic ether were mixed with the proper atomic proportions of iodide of methyl and iodide of ethyl , and were digested with granulated zinc for several days at a temperature of from 35 ?
to 40 ?
C. , until the supernatant liquid became oily , and solidified to a crystalline mass on cooling .
Water being now added until effervescence ceased , the whole was submitted to distillation in an oil-bath .
With the exception of a small quantity of the mixed iodides of ethyl and methyl that had escaped decomposition , the distillate consisted of a homogeneous liquid composed of water , ethylic and methylic alcohols , and an ethereal body , which last was separated by repeated agitation with large volumes of ether and subsequent rectification .
In this manner there was obtained a large quantity of a liquid which boiled constantly at 165 ?
'5 C. , and yielded on analysis numbers very closely corresponding with he formula rC2115H CH3 C2 JOH O0 .
OC2 H6 [ Feb. 16 , 81 The production of this ether is explained in the following equations : C2 H Ci o H , Vc Ci C , 211T C2 +Zn H } }-C Zn " OCt1 + 2Zn1I2\OC2 HI -lr TT OC 82 5 ZincethyloOxalic ether .
Zincmonethyl-ethoethylate .
methoxalate of ethyl .
fC2H , FC , H5 | CH3I , IC O +C Zn " Oil C2 OZnuC , +2 H,0= C , &lt; OF +Zn ' 2 Ho o o0 11C I 00 C2 H5 Zinc hydrate .
Zincmonethyl-ethoEthylic ethometh .
methoxalate of ethyl .
oxalate .
A not inconsiderable amount of the ether thus formed in this and in the analogous reactions described in our previous communications , appears to be decomposed by the zinc hydrate ; at all events an appreciable quantity of the zinc-salt of the derived acid is always obtained from the residue left after distillation of the ethereal product .
Ethylic ethomethoxalate , as we propose to name the new ether , is a colourless , transparent , and mobile liquid , possessing a penetrating ethereal odour much resembling that of ethylic diethoxalate .
It is very soluble in water , alcohol , and ether , and has a specific gravity of '9768 at 13 ?
C. It boils at 165 ?
'5 C. , and its vapour has a density of 4'98 ; the theoretical number for a two-volume vapour ( H , 0= 2 vols .
) of the above formula being 5'04 .
Ethylic ethomethoxalate is readily decomposed , even by aqueous solutions of the alkalies and of baryta , yielding alcohol and a salt of the base .
The ethomethoxalate of barium was thus prepared .
It crystallizes from an aqueous solution as a beautiful radiated mass of silky lustre , very easily soluble in water .
Its analysis gave numbers closely corresponding with the formula ( CHl()2 C ( OH ) , 4 0 , L Ba " By exactly decomposing this salt with dilute sulphuric acid and evaporating the filtrate , first in a retort , and afterwards in vacuo , ethomethoxalic acid was obtained as a splendid white crystalline mass , fusing at 63 ?
C. , subliming readily at 100 ?
, and condensing in magnificent star-like groups upon a cold surface .
It boils with decomposition at 190 ?
C. Ethomethoxalic acid is very readily soluble in ether , alcohol , and water ; small fragments of it thrown upon water rotate like camphor whilst dissolving .
These solutions react powerfully acid , and readily decompose carbonates .
The analysis of this acid gave numbers closely corresponding with the formula frC H5 I CH3 C2 OII t OH We have prepared silver ethomethoxalate by treating the free acid dissolved in water with carbonate of silver .
This salt crystallizes in splendid mammillated masses half an inch in diameter , which are tolerably soluble in water .
It gave numbers , on analysis , in accordance with the formula r C , HI CI C2 OH 10 OAg

