152 Mr. J. N. Lockyer on a [ Jan. 7 , January ,1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
- The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. \lt ; c Remarks on a New Map of the Solar Spectrum .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received November 13 , 1874 .
I beg permission to lay before the Royal Society a portion of the new map of the solar spectrum referred to in one of my former communications .
It consists of the portion between w. 1 .
39 and 41 .
I have found it necessary , in order to include all the lines visible in my photographs in such a manner that coincidences may be clearly O shown , to construct it on four times the scale of Angstrom 's " Spectre Normal .
" The spectra of the following elements have been photographed side by side with the solar spectrum and the coincidences shown :\#151 ; Fe , Co , Ni , Mn , Ce , U , Cr , Ba , Sr , Ca , K , Al .
The wave-lengths of new lines in the portion of this spectrum at present completed have been obtained from curves of graphical interpolation .
Instead of the reading of a micrometer-scale , a photographic print of the spectrum has been employed in the construction of these curves , the wave-lengths of the principal lines being taken from an unpublished map of the ultra-violet region of the solar spectrum , a copy of which has been kindly placed at my disposal by M. Cornu .
The photograph of the solar spectrum from the ultra-violet to beyond F , kindly given to me by Mr. Rutherfurd , has also proved of great service in the present work .
I have , in fact , up to the present time , only been able to excel this photograph in the region about H. From the extreme difficulty of carrying on eye-observations upon the portion of the spectrum now completed , Angstrom 's map is , of course , very incomplete about this region .
The few lines mapped differ slightly in some cases from the positions assigned by Cornu ; but the wave-lengths given by the latter observer generally fall into the curve without breaking its symmetry , and these positions have therefore been adopted .
The advantage possessed by the photographic method over eye-observation - may be estimated from the following numerical comparisons :\#151 ; 175 .
] New Map of the Solar Spectrum .
153 Region of spectrum , 3900-4100 .
o Number of lines in Angstrom 's " Spectre Normal " ... 39 9 } " Angstrom 's and Thalen 's map of the violet part of the solar spectrum ... .
185 \gt ; , " Cornu 's map ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 205 \#187 ; \gt ; , new map ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
518 tt will serve further to illustrate the advantages of the photographic buthod , to compare the number of lines in the spectra of metals already curved with the number of lines of the same metal given by Angstrom i the " Spectre Normal .
" Region of spectrum , 3900-4100 .
Metal .
Fe Lines in new map .
Lines in Thal6n 's map .
71 1ft Mn 53 . .
12 Co 47 Ni ... .
17 Ce 163 U 18 Cr 24 Ba ... ..* 7 Sr 5 Ca . . . . .
7 6 K 2 A1 2 2 Total ... .
416 Total. . .
39 The purification of the various metallic spectra has at present been ily partially effected ; but I have seen enough already to convince me ' the extreme rigour with which the principle I have already announced ay be applied , while , at the same time , there are evidences that the .plication of it may lead to some results not anticipated in the first istance .
My object in laying these maps before the Society , and presenting this l interim report of progress , is to appeal to some other man of science , not in England , then in some other country , to come forward to aid in e work , which it is improbable that I , with my small observational eans and limited time , can carry to a termination .
I reckon that , iving regard to routine solar work , it will require another year before ie portion from H to G is completely finished , even for the metals the tectra of which are shown in the maps now exhibited .
When this is me there will still remain outstanding all the ultra-violet portion , the \gt ; rtion from G to F ( both capable of being photographed by short expo-ire ) , and the whole of the less-refrangible part ( which both Draper and 154 Dr. W. Huggins on the [ Jan. 7 , Rutherfurd have shown can be reached by long exposure with the present processes ) .
I cannot but think , moreover , that when the light which the spectroscope has already thrown upon molecular action shall be better known , and used as a basis for further inquiry , methods of photography greatly exceeding the present one in rapidity , in the less-refrangible portion of the spectrum , will be developed and utilized in the research .
The map is being drawn by my assistant , Mr. Eaphael Meldola ( to whom my thanks are due for the skill and patience he has brought to bear upon the work ) , in the first instance , with more especial reference to the positions , thicknesses , and individualities of the lines ; the final revision will consist of an absolute intensity reproduction of the photographs .
II .
" On the Spectrum of Coggia 's Comet .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , For .
Sec. R.A.S. Received November 13 , 1874 .
[ Plate 6 .
] In the years 1866 , 1868 , and 1871 * I had the honour to communicate to the Royal Society some observations with the spectroscope of five small comets , including Encke 's comet at its return in 1871 .
These observations showed that a great part of the light of these comets was not reflected solar light , but light emitted by the matter of the comets .
Further , the coincidence which was found to exist , in the case of three of the comets , between the three bright bands into which their light was resolved by the prism and the spectrum of some compounds of carbon appeared to indicate the presence of that element , in some form , in the cometary matter .
The comet now visible , which was detected by M. Coggia , April 17,1874 , is the first bright comet to which the spectroscope has been applied .
The following spectroscopic observations of this comet were made from July 1 to July 15 .
When the slit of the spectroscope was placed across the nucleus and coma , there was seen in the instrument a broad spectrum , consisting of the three bright bands which were exhibited by Comet II .
, 1868 " f , crossed by a linear continuous spectrum from the light of the nucleus .
In the continuous spectrum of the nucleus I was not able to distinguish with certainty any dark lines of absorption , or any bright lines other than the three bright bands .
Besides these spectra , there was also present a faint broad continuous spectrum between and beyond the bright bands .
When the slit was moved on to different parts of the coma , the bright * Proc. Roy .
Soc. voL xyi .
p. 386 , toI .
six .
p. 490 , vol. xx .
p. 45 , and Phil. Trans. 1868 , p. 555 .
t Phil. Trans. 1868 , plate xxxiii .

