" On the Physical Structure of the Old Red Sandstone of the County of Waterford , considered with relation to Cleavage , Joint Surfaces , and Faults .
" By the Rev. SAMAUEL HAUGHTON , Fellow of Trinity College , Dublin , and Professor of Geology .
Communicated by Dr. TYNDALL , F.R.S. Received January 19 , 1858 .
After describing the general features of the district and giving his reasons for selecting it , the author proceeds to give a detailed account of the faults , joint surfaces , and cleavage planes , 345 in number , observed by him during the course of his survey .
The faults are nineteen in number and reducible to two pairs of rectangular systems .
The bearings of these systems are E. 7§ 30 ' N. and E. 54§ 22 ' N. The other faults , which form nearly right angles with the preceding and may be called Conjugate Faults , have the following bearings , N. 3§ 451 W. and N. 33§ 24 ' W. The author considers that the existence of two systems of conjugate faults indicates two distinct systems of upheaving force in the district ; a supposition which is strongly confirmed by the fact that the average strike of the beds is E. 10§ 46 ' N. , a direction intermediate between those of the systems of faults .
He then demonstrates from 345 observed planes , that the systems of joint and cleavage planes are also conjugate systems , reducible to four , of which two are identical with the two conjugate systems of faults already established .
The average observed angles between the conjugate axes of these four systems of planes are 89§ 1 1 ' , 91c 52 ' , 91§ 20 ' , and 90§ 30 ' respectively ; and the bearings of their cleavage planes areCleavage .
Faults .
7§ 46 ' North of East .
7§ 30 ' North of East .
330 31 ' North of East .
34§ 22 ' North of East .
30§ 30 ' South of East .
10 ?
South of East .
The cleavage planes are distinguished from the joint planes by a peculiar fiaggy or platy structure developed in the rock-mass , parallel to their direction .
This structure the author thinks to be the result of pressure ; and that it indicates that the cleavage planes are perpendicular to the lines of maximum force ; he considers the cleavage planes to have been developed while the rock was yet soft .
The joint planes , on the contrary , which are conjugate to the cleavage planes , are considered as perpendicular to the lines of minimum force of compression ; they were formed by the shrinking of the rock mass , were subsequent to the cleavage planes , and formed when the rock was hard .
Having established the geometrical relations of the structural planes of the conglomerate , the author then deduces from them the mechanical forces which have been at work in bringing the district to its present condition and form .
He believes that the method he has adopted in reference to the conglomerate of the county of Waterford is applicable to the physical structure of other districts ; and that his results , if confirmed by corresponding results in other districts , of which he is confident , will prove to be a substantial addition to the arguments in favour of the mechanical theory of slaty cleavage .
The paper was accompanied by four diagrams illustrative of the cleavage and joint planes of Portally Head , Swiny Head , Shanooan Head , and of the reversed fault at Portnashrughann .

