]\gt ; Luminosity produced in certain by .
561 above the source is continually .
The form of the decay curve in this case must only be regarded as empirical , as there appears to be no simple physical foundation for it .
This work was carried out in the Physical Laboratory of the Uniyersity Manchester , and I desire to express myratitude to Prof. ltutherford for his valuable esbions and his kind interest in the experiments .
Theory of the minosity produced certain bstances by By E. , F.RS .
, Professor of Physics , University of Manchester .
( Received and read February 17 , 1910 .
) In the preceding paper , Mr. Marsden has examined the decay of the luminosity excited by -rays in zinc sulphide , willemite , and barium platinocyanide , when subjected to an intense bombardment by -particles .
He has shown that the luminosity decreases with continued bombardment to a very small fraction of its initial value .
For a given bombardment , the rate of decay of luminosity is about the same for zinc sulphide and willemite , but is especially rapid in barium platinocyanide .
The action of the -particles on phosphorescent zinc sulphide is of special interest and importance on account of the marked scintil]ations observed , and the fact that each -particle under suitable conditions produces a visible scintillation .
Mr. Marsden has brought out the esse.ntial fact that the actual number of scintillations observed for a constant source of -rays very little with continued bombardment , but the htness of the scintillations rapidly isbes .
It is well known that the -particles exert a marked dissociation effect in complex molecules on which they fall .
For example , the -rays from radium or its emanation , dissolved in water , dissociate the water , producing hydrogen and oxygen at a rapid rate .
I have shown elsewhere ( ' -active Transformations , ' p. 253 ) , that the magnitude of this effect is in agreement with the view that each -particle dissociates as many molecules of water as it produces its path in air .
The loss of energy of the -particle in passing a gas is mainly used up in ions in the gas .
The laws of absorption of -particles , which have been so refnlly worked out by , show that no definite distinction as ards absorption can be drawn between a solid and a gas .
It is reasonable to suppose that the -particle produces ions in a solid as well as in a gas , and that the absorption Prof E. Rutherford .
Theory of the Luminosity [ Feb. 17 , of the -particle is due mainly to the energy used uP in this process .
If the solid matter is composed of complex molecules , the latter will be dissociated by the -particles .
As Marsden has pointed out , pure zinc sulphide does not exhibit the scintillation effect , but this only appears in zinc sulphide to which certain impurities have been added .
Since the amount of impurity present is of the order of 1 per cent. , it is probable that only a small fraction of the total number of molecules give rise to the scintillation effect .
Ihese " " active centres as they will be called , will on the average be uniformly distributed among the inactive molecules .
In the theory of the decay of luminosity outlined in this paper , it is supposed that a scintillation results from the dissociation of a number of these active centres which lie in the path of the -particle .
Each active centre , when dissociated by an -particle , emits light and is no effective in producing light when struck again by an -particle .
The effect of continued bombardment by -particles is thus to destroy gradually the active centres .
Since , probably , initially many thousands of these centres lie in the path of an -particle , the effect of a continued bombardment will not cause a diminution in the number of scintillations , but a decrease in the intensity of :each scintillation , for the intensity of a scintillation on an average will be proportional to the number of active centres remaining .
This point of view is in agreement with the experimental results observed by Mr. Marsden .
Theory of Decay of uminosity with Time .
Since the destruction of active centres is connected with their ionisation and consequent dissociation by the -particles , it is to consider how the ionisation varies within the layer of phosphorescent material .
In the experiments of Marsden , a glass tube , coated inside with a layer of zinc sulphide or willemite , was exposed to the action of the -rays from the emanation and its products .
About three hours after the introduction of the emanation into the tube , the emanation and its products , Radium , and are in equilibrium , and the same number of -particles is emitted per second from the emanation , Badium , and Radium C. The of penetration of the -particles from these three products are , and cm .
respectively in air .
Since the emanation was usually introduced at low pressure , the -particles were not appreciably stopped by the gas in the tube .
Each part of the surface of the phosphorescent material was exposed to a bombard- ment of -particles falling equally from all directions .
The thickness of phosphorescent matter was more than sufficient to stop the -particles completely .
It was early observed that the total ionisation produced by a thin layer of 1910 .
] produced in by a-Rays .
active material from which -particles were fired equally in all directions decreased approximately according to an exponential law when uniform screens of matter were placed over the active matter .
The variation of ionisation with distance uuder these conditions has been calculated by If is the range of the -particles in the material and the thickness , then the value is given in the following table for different ratios of .
In this case represents the total ionisation due to the -particles when no screen is interposed , and the value of the total ionisation produced after traversing a distance of the material .
In this calculation , a correction is made for the variation of the ionisation due to an -particle its path .
In the experimental case under consideration , it is required to find the variation of ionisation with distance for a thin layer of radio-active matter emitting three sets of -particles , equal in number .
Taking as the range in the materiaI of the -particles from Radium , the range of the -particles from the emanation and Radium A are and respectively .
has shown that an -particle from the emanation , Radium , and Radium produces ions respectively .
By drawing a curve giving the variation of ionisation with distance traversed for each of the three sets of rays and adding them together , the variation of ionisation with distance for the three sets together can be deduced .
The results are collected in the following table:\mdash ; 02 It will be seen that the value falls off roughly according to an exponential law .
This is brought out in the third column , where the values of are plotted for a value .
With this value of , the ionisation falls off to half value after the -particles have traversed a distance .
We can consequently assume , as a first approximation , that the ionisation decreases with distance traversed according to an exponential law .
This assumption makes the final equations much more easily integrable .
Consider a layer of phosphorescent material of area one square centimetre * Brag , ' Phil. Mag vol. 11 , p. 754 , 1906 .
Geiger , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc A vol. 82 , p. 486 , 1909 .
564 Prof. E. Eutherford .
Theory of the Luminosity [ Feb. 17 , and thickness at a depth from the interior surface .
Suppose -particles from the emanation and also from each of the -ray products strike each square centimetre of surface per second .
The numbel of ions produced in thickness is easily seen to be , where where is the sum of the ber of ions produced by an -particle from the three -ray products .
The number of molecules of material ( supposed mainly zinc sulphide ) in thickness is Ndx , if is the number !
of molecules of zinc sulphide per cubic centimetre .
Consequently , the fraction of the total number of molecules ionised in the time is If the active centres be supposed to be of the same diameter as the inactive , so that the chance of being struck by an -particle is the same , this must represent the fraction of the active molecules which are destroyed in the time being the number of active molecules present per unit volume .
Thus This equation will obviously hold if the active centres constitute only small part of the total number present .
If the active centres consist of molecular ates or small crystals of dimensions large compared with that of the zinc sulphide molecule , each of which is destroyed as a scintillation centre by the impact from an -particle , it is obvious that their chance of being struck by an -particle is much greater than if they were of molecular dimensions .
In such a case it would be necessary to introduce a constant factor on the left-hand side of equation ( 2 ) .
We shall , however , first work out the theory on the simple hypothesis that the active and inactive molecules have the same chance of being struck by an -particle .
A comparison of theory with experiment will at once disclose whether such a correction is necessary .
Since , in the experiments of Mr. Marsden , the emanation in a sealed tubs was used as a source of radiation , the radiation from it decays with time .
If be the initial number of -particles expelled per second from the emanation itself , the number after a time is given by , where is the constant of decay of the emanation .
Under these conditions equation ( 2 ) becomes 1910 .
] produced in certain Substances by a-Rays .
Putting , and integrating between the limits and where is the of when .
Thus ( 4 ) Now the luminosity supplied by the layer is pptional and may be taken for simplicity as equal to .
Then the total illumination I due to the whole layer of material acted on by -particles is given by Substituting the value of from ( 3 ) .
, this reduces to When , the value of the intensity of luminosity is given by and .
( 5 ) This gives the equation of decay of luminosity , and is seen to involve only one unknown constant , since the decay constant of the elnanation is known .
Cases .
We can at once deduce from this equation the decay of luminosity for certain special cases of importance .
Case l.\mdash ; Suppose the bombardment is constant .
In this case .
It is at once seen that .
( 6 ) .
LXXXIII.\mdash ; A. 2 Prof. E. Rutherford .
Theory of the Luminosity [ Feb. 17 , Casc 2.\mdash ; Suppose layer of material is very thin compared with the range of the -particles in it .
In this case , the ionisation may be taken as sensibly constant and equal to through the thin layer .
Equation ( 3 ) in this case reduces to and equation ( 4 ) becomes From this it follows that I , which is equal to , is given by For a constant source of bombardment , i.e. the luminosity decays according to an exponential law with the time .
Such a result is to be anticipated from the general theory without calculation .
Case \mdash ; Suppose a screen is exposed to a narrow pencil of -rays falling normally .
In this case all the -particles penetrate a distance equal to their .
Taking the ionisaCion as uniform along the path of the -particles , it is clear that this case is similar to Case 2 .
With a source of radiation and for a constant source It is , however , well known that the ionisation in a gas due to a narrow pencil of -rays increases at first , passes through a maximum , and then falls off rapidly to zero at the end of the .
The equations for deduced above consequently serve only as a first approximation .
If required it would not be difficult to make a correction for the variation of ionisation along the path .
For the purpose of theory with experiment it is conyenient to express equation ( 3 ) in the form .
( 7 ) The value of .
( 8 ) The value of the constant in different experiments is consequently proportional to the initial number of -particles falling per second per square centimetre on the phosphorescent material .
1910 .
] produced in certain Substances by It is of interest to observe that , where the variable factor is eqnal to the total number of ticles which havs traversed the material .
It is obvious on this theory that the fraction of the active molecules destroyed by a bombardment depends ] on the total number of -particles which have struck the screen and not on their distribution with to time .
on of In the experiment of Mr. Marsden , the bombardment of the screen by the -particles increased for about three after the introduction of the emanation , due to the growth of the -ray products Radium A and C. Systematic measurements were usually after the three hours ' interval .
For a comparison of experiment with theory it has ) necessary to correct for the bombardment this interval .
This has been done by the observed curve backwards , to an interval of two hours .
This ( ; stimated correction is small for small bombardments , but becomes of more importance in the case of intense bombardments where the luminosity considerably in the course of a few hours .
The reement between the experimental values and those deduced by taking a suitable value of the constant in the equation is shown in the following tables .
The first cohunn gives the time in hours calculated from one hour after the introduction of the emanation ; the second column the value of for the emanation , taking the half period as days .
It will be seen that there is a substantial a between and experiment for both zinc sulplude and willemite over a considerable of intensity of bombardment .
into account the nature some of the assumptions and the experimental difficulty of accurate measurement of the weak luminosity , the agreement between the calculated and observed numbers is as close as could be expected .
In the simple theory no account has been taken of the effect of the -rays on the material , within or outside the of penetration of the -particles , though it is probable that the luminosity due to this cause becomes important when most of the active centres in the surface layer have been destroyed .
In one experiment Prof E. Rutherford .
Theory of the Luminosity [ Feb. 17 , Zinc Sulphide .
Willemite .
of Mr. Marsden where the bombardment was very intense -particles per square centimetre per second ) , the agreement between theory and experiment is not so good .
This is not unexpected , for the bombardment was so intens that the luminosity increased little , if any , after the introduction of the emanation .
This shows that a considerable fraction of the active centres in the surface layers had been destroyed before the emanation was in equilibrium with its products and regular measurements begun .
1910 .
] produced in by a-Rays .
It will be noted that on this theory the active centres in the surface layer where the ionisation is most intense are destroyed far more rapidly that those in the deeper layers .
In consequence of this , the luminosity with continued bombardment is supplied more and more from the deeper layers of the material .
Valuof tlbe Constant B.\mdash ; The value of the constant in the formula can be calculated on certain assumptions .
Its value is given by since we have already shown earlier that , where is the range of the -particle from Badium in the material under investigation .
It is known that the ionisation due to an -particle is approximately the same for all simple ases , but increases somewhat for complex gases and vapours .
In the absence of definite information , it will be assumed for the purposes of calculation that the number of ions produced in the solid material is equal to the number of ions produced in a simp e , for example , in air .
Taking the values of the ionisation found by Geiger ( loc. cit. ) for an -particle from the emanation , adium A and , the value of Taking the half } ) eriod of the emanation as days , The values of and for each substance , but can be simply determined .
Taking the density of zinc sulphide , willemite , bariumplatinocyanide as equal to four , it can easily be shown that the range of the -particle from Radiuun is For zinc sulphide , , wlllelnite , , , , bariu platinocyanide , , The range for each ) stance is calculated from 's rule that the power of a complex molecule is very approximately proportional to the sum of the square roots of the atomic ohts of the constituent atoms. .
The range of the -particle from Badium in ahuninium is taken as a basis of comparison .
the chal.ge on a hydrogen atom as electrostatic unit , it cau readily be calculated that the value of , the number of molecules per unit volume , is For zinc sulphide , , willemite , , barium platinocyanide .570 Prof E. Rutherford .
Theory of the Luminosity [ Feb. 17 , The value of the constant is independent of the density of the material , since the value of varies directly , and the value of varies inversely as the density .
In a similar way , the of the charge a hydrogen atom is not involved , for and vary inversely as the value of this quantity .
Collecting results , it is seen that For zinc sulphide , , willemite , , barium platinocyanide here represents the number of -particles per second per square centimetre from the emanation alone , or one-third the actual bombardmenb when in equilibrium with its products .
The calculated and observed values of are shown in the table:\mdash ; The decay of the luminosity of barium platinocyanide takes place much more rapidly than for willemite and zinc sulphide .
The numbers foJj this substance in the above table were deduced from data obtained by Marsden .
A rod coated with the material was inserted through mercury in a space containing emanation in equilibrium .
With a bombardment of -particles per square centimetre per second , the luminosity of the barium platinocyanide decayed to half value in 8 minutes .
The calculated values of given in the above table are deduced on the assumption that the same number of ions is produced in the material as in air , and that the active centre has the same chance of being struck by an -particle as a molecule of the matelial .
The latter condition implies that the active centre is of the same dimensions as the molecule .
In interpreting the relation between the observed and calculated values of , there are two points of view that may be considered .
In the first place , may be supposed that the active centre is a molecular aggregate of greater dimensions than the molecule , and has , consequently , a greater chance than a molecule of being struck by an -particle .
If we suppose that the chance cf being struck is proportional to the cross-section of the aggregate , it is seen 1910 .
] produced in Subst mces by -Rays .
from the above table that for willemite , zinc sulphide , and barium platinocyanide , the active centres have cross-sections about 2 , 15 , and 5000 times that of the corresponding molecules .
On such a point of view , the number of active centres must be small compared with the number of inactive molecules .
In the second place , it may be supposed that in substances like zinc sulphide , where the llolecular ementso are very easily disturbed by the action of or other weak stimuli , the region of dissociation of an -particle is not confined to the molecules and active centres directly in its path , but extends some distance from it .
In such a case , the dissociation of the hbouring active centres is to be ascribed to the effect of the secondal'y radiations set up by the ticle in the molecules in its direct path .
On this theory , the region of disturbance is small for willemite , but in zinc sulphide is sufficiently large to cause about fifteen active centres to be dissociated for one directly struck by an -particle .
In barium platinocyanide the active centres are so numerous or so unstable tlJat the ratio is nearIy 5000 .
This point of view of the action of the -particle may be expressed in another way without taking into consideration the ionisation produced by the -particle .
Suppose that an -particle , in its through the material , destroys all the active centres in a cylinder of average cross-section A and of length equal to its ange in the material .
For simplicity , the case of a very thin layer of the material on which -particles fall per second per square centimetre .
The fraction of the volume destroyed in the first second is PA .
It is readily seen from equation ( 2 ) that , under the conditions specified , PA , where is the constant deduced experimentally for all initial lnbardment P , and 1/ 481000 is the constant of the radium emanation .
If be the diameter of the cylinder of action of the -particle , .
We shall now calculate the value of for special examples\mdash ; inc sulphide 12 , cm .
Willemite ) Barium It is seen that the diameter of the cylinder of action of each -particle is , for willemitc and 'Ainc sulphide , somewhat greater the .
of the sphere of action of the molecule .
The eter of the latter for ordinary gaseous molecules is calculated by Meycr Kinetic Theory of ases ' ) to be between and cm .
The value of for barium platinocyanide is undoubtedly large compared with diameter of a molecule .
Dr. L. N. G. Filon .
Measurements of the [ Feb. 24 , On both points of view , it must be supposed that the luminosity due to -rays accompanies the dissociation of the active centres and cannot be ascribed to the recombination of the dissociated parts , for there is an undoubted chemical alteration of the material due to continued bombardment .
Whatever point of view is taken , it is clear that for willemite and zinc sulphide the active centres have dimensions comparable with a molecule .
This excludes the suggestion put forward at one time that the scintillations of zinc sulphide due to -particles were a consequence of the mechanical cleavage of small crystals .
I am indebted to Mr. Marsden for the use of the data obtained by him , and for his assistance in calculation of the decay curves .
Measurements of the Absolute Indices of Glass .
By L. N. G. FILON , M.A. , D.SG .
, Fellow and Lecturer of University College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. F. T. Trouton , F.R.S. Received February 24 , \mdash ; Read March 3 , 1910 .
) 1 .
In June , 1907 , the author described* a method by which the doublerefraction in strained glass could be measured by observing the deviation of a ray of light passing through a slab of glass under flexure .
If a slab or beam of glass of rectangular cross-section be bent in a vertical plane under a bending moment , and if a plane wave be transmitted through the glass in a direction perpendicular to the plane of flexure , the light is broken up into two components , one polarised horizontally ( i.e. perpendicular to the cross-section and along the line of stress ) and the other It was shown in the paper referred to that the variation in the index of refraction of the lass , due to the stress , produces in the vertically polarised ray an upwards deflection radians , ( l ) and in the horizontally polarised ray a deflection radians , ( 2 ) ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 79 , pp. 440\mdash ; 442 .

