]\gt ; On the Orbit of Part of the Leonid " " On the Orbit of the Part of the Leonid Stream which the Earth encountered on the Morning of 1898 , November 15 ARTHUR A. AMBAUT , , D.Sc .
, Radcliffe Observer .
Communicated by G. JOHNSTONE STONY , , D.Sc .
, F.RS .
Received June June 15 , 1899 .
For an accurate prediction of the return of the Great Leonid swarm of meteors , it is of the highest importance to determine as accurately as possible the orbit in which each part of the swarm is moving .
As has been pointed out by Drs. Stony and Downin the denser part of the stream , with which we are chiefly concerned , being now drawn out to such a length that it takes more than two years to pass any point of the orbit , it resuIts that the psrturbing effect of the several planets will not be the same on different parts of the stream .
Hence it follows thal , the orbit deduced from the observations made during the great shower of 1866 , however reliable they may have been , must not be assumed to represent accurately the track of the meteors which we shall meet when we pass through the node of the orbit next November , even when allowance is made for the perturbations which that part of the stream has suffered in the meanwhile .
But although the determinations of the radiant point of the shower made in 1866 are entitled to a high degree of confidence , owing to the large number of meteors upon which they depend , yet the discrepancies existing between the results of different observers , and the fact that the varying effect of the 's attraotion upon the position of the radiant at different zenith-distances was generally overlooked by the observers at the time , introduce an element of uncertainty into the orbit .
The extent of these discrepancies may be estimated from the " " List of Observed PIaces of the Radiant Point in 1866 as given by Professor A. S. Herschel in the ' Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society , ' vol. 27 , p. 19 , and the effect of this uncertainty on the resulting orbit may be illustrated by comparing the two sets of elements deduced by Adams and Schiaparelli , respectively , from English observations of the point on that occasion .
These are\mdash ; Adams .
iaparelli .
Period ( assumed ) years .
3325 years .
Mean distance Eccentricity Inclination Longitude of node . .
Longitude of perihelion * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc No. 410 .
' Monthly Notices , ' vol. 27 ; ' The Scientific Papers of John Couch Adams , vol. 1 , p. 269 .
'Entwurf einer Astronomischen Theory der Sternschnuppen , ' von J. V. Schi parelli , p. 57 .
322 Dr. A. A. Rambaut .
On the Orbit of the Part of the The part of the stream through which the earth will pass this year lies between the position of those meteors which the earth encountered year and that of the meteors of 1866 .
It is , therefore , of importance to investigate how far the orbit of the meteors observed in November , 1898 , agrees with that deduced from the observations of 1866 .
mately the observations obtained in 1898 are fewer than couId be desired .
Unfavourable weather prevailed almost universally in England .
On ths Continent meteors were observed at a few stations , .
they appear to have been outlying members of the stream , and the denser portion was not encountered until about 19 .
G.M.T. , on the morning of November 15 ( civil time ) .
For observations at the time that the earth was passing through the densest part of the stream , we are wholly ependent upon the American observers .
The time of maximum is , owing to the paucity of meteors , somewhat indefinite , and seems to have differed by several hours at different stations .
The most reliable accounts , however , agree in placing it between 19 .
and 22 .
G.M.T. on the morning of the 15th , and from a discussion of all the separate determinations , I have been led to adopt 20 .
as the most probable time of maximum .
This agrees exactly with Professor Young 's result , who writes , " " The maximum was about 3 hrs .
45 .
( astern Standard Time ) when for about 20 minutes the meteors averaged two or three a minute.\ldquo ; * In Table I are given\mdash ; the nams of the observer , his observatory or station , its longitude and latitude , the reenwich time , and the R.A. and declination of the radiant point .
In this connection I may remark that in order to contribute to an accurate determination of the orbit , the G.M.T. correspondin to the observation , and the approximate position of the observer are just as .
essential as the co-ordinates of the radiant itself .
In several of the accounts before us I have had to assume that the position of the radiant eorresponds to the time given as that of maximum display , or to the middle of the time over which the watch extended .
The longitudes and latitudes of the observers ' positions may also in some cases be in error to the extent of several minutes , but they are sufficiently exact to enable me to compute the " " zenith-attraction.\ldquo ; In Table I , I have included only those observations which seem to relate to meteors belonging to the dense , or central , part of the stream .
They ars all contained in the interval between 18 hrs .
58 .
and Each of these separate results has to be corrected for the influence of the earth 's attraction on the paths of the meteors during their pproach , and for the influence of the earth 's motion on the apparent position of the radiant .
* ' The Observatory , ' December , 1898 .
p. 469 .
lieonid Stream which the Earth encounterjd 1898 .
323 324 Dr. A. A. Rambaut .
On the Orbit of Part of the The former varies with the zenith-distance of the radiant and its elongation from the " " apex or the point of the heavens towards which the earth is moving at the time .
It has always the effect of displacing the radiant towards the observer 's zenith , and hence has been called by Schiaparelli the " " action.\ldquo ; The amount of this displacement ( ) is given by the ession , in which is the apparent zenith-distance of the radiant , is the velocity of the meteors relatively to the earth before the influence of the earth 's attraction has become sensible , while is the accelerated velocity with which the meteor encounlers the earth .
This displacement , which has been too frequently overlooked by meteor observers , may , as pointed out by Schiaparelh , amount in extreme cases to as much as .
In the case of the Leonids , however , it happens that the tion of ths radiant from the " " apex\ldquo ; is so small ( in the case before us not exceeding at any that the effect of the zenith-attraction never amounts to half a degree , its greatest valus being 29 ' .
For computing the value of we have the expression being the earth 's radius , and the acceleration of gravity at the surface , or , expressing the velocities , as is convenient , in terms of the mean velocity of the earth in its orbit , In computing the value of in the above expression the Sun 's parallax has been taken to be , and the ratio of the earth 's mass to that of the Sun equal to 1/ 331,100 .
We thus have for computing the figures in brackets the logarithms of the coefficients .
For determining we may with quite sufficient precision adopt Adams 's orbit of 1866 .
Also if denotes the velocity of the earth at any time expressed in terms of its mean velocity , and its distance from the Sun , then , Leonid Stream whixh the encountered in 1898 .
325 or , neglecting .
the second power of the eocentricity we may , without loss of accmacy , write In Table II are given the values of the Sun 's longitude ( ) , the longitude ( l ) , the right ascension ( a ) and the declination of the apex , and the orbital velocity of the meteors ( v ) , all of which can be Table II .
computed from the ' Nautical Almanac ' or from Adams 's orbit of the meteor stream .
These are given for three epochs , .
:\mdash ; November , and , from which their values at the time of each servation may be obtained by interpolation .
All of these quantities are needed in the subsequent redu.ction of the observations , or for deducin the elements of the orbit .
We next compute the quantities , and , exhibited in Table III .
Table III .
Applying the corrections for the earth 's attraction , and to the R.A. and declination from the formulae sec@ ; ) , being the parallactic angle , we find the corrected R.A. and declination of the radiant , as given in the second and third columns of Table IV .
In the next two columns of the same table are found the tude ( and latitude ( B ) of the points , and in the sixth and seventh On the Orbit of Part of the Leonid Stream .
Table cOlumns are given the longitude ( L ) and latitude ( B ) , of the true radiant corrected for the effect of the earth 's orbital motion .
The quantities and define the direotion of the tangent to the orbit of the meteors at the point where the earth intersects it , and from the mean of these separate determinations , the position of the earth in its orbit at the time , and an assumption with regard to the period of the meteor tream , the orbit is to be determined .
The only difficulty lies in deciding on the best mode of combining the various observations , or in laying down a rule for determining the weights .
In this part of the work a certain amount of arbitrariness is , I think , unavoidable .
a careful consideration of all the ciroumstances of each case , as far as they are recordsd , the experience or inexperience of the observer in this class of work as far as it is stated , the number of meteors observed , and the size of the area from which the meteors appeared to radiate , I have been led to adopt the weights given in the last column of Table IV , which represents , I think very fairly , the relative value of the individual observations .
It will be noticed that I have given the two photographic resuIts ( Nos. 2 and 13 ) an importance out of all proportion to the number of trails photographed , , four trails in the case of No. 2 , and two trails in the case of No. 13 .
This is , I , justilied by the superior accuracy of photographic results in this class of observations .
I thus find as the definitive position of the radiant of the Leonid meteors of 1898 , ; corresponding to the epoch November ( astronomical time ) .
' Handworterbu dcr Astronomy , ' herausgegeben von Dr. W. Valentiner , vol. 2 , Breslau , 1898 .
A Comparison of Platinum and Gas Thermometers .
327 From the researches of the late Professor H. A. Newton , and ths results of the investigations of Drs. Stony and Downing on the perturbations of Adams 's orbit , the most probable value of the period of revolution would appear to be at present about years , corresponding to mean distance of Any admissible variation in the length of the period , however , makes but a small change in the other elements of the orbit , as is evident from Table , in which the elements in each column have been computed with the value of the mean distance which is contained in it .
Table If we adopt the value for the mean distance , as being on the whole the most probable , we have the orbit in column II representing the result of the observations of 1898 , as far as they have been published .
" " A Comparison of Platinum and Gas Thermometers , including a Determination of the Boiling Point of Sulphur on the Nitrogen Scale : an Account of Experiments made in the Laboratory of the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures , at Sevres By Drs. J. A. HARKER and P. CHAPPUIS .
Communicated by the OBSERVATORY COMMITTEE .
Beceived June 8 , \mdash ; Read June 10- , 1899 .
Abstract .
) In 1886 , Professor Callendar drew attention to the method of measuring temperature , based on the determination of the electrical resistance of a platinum wire .
He showed that the method was capable of a very general application , and that the platinum resistance thermometer was an instrument giving consistent and accurate results over a very wide temperature range .
Callendar pointed out that if denote the resistance of the spiral of a particular platinum thermometer at , and its resistance at , we may establish for the particular wire a temperature scale ,

