2 .
" Some Observations on the Ova of the Salmonidam .
" By John Davy , M.D. , F.R.S. Lond. and Ed. , Inspector-General of Army Hospitals , &amp;c. Received November 20 , 1851 .
The author prefaces his observations by a quotation from the work of M. Vogt on the Embryology of the Salmonide , in which a remarkable property of the vitellus is described , viz. its coagulation by admixture with water .
This inquirer 's experiments were made chiefly on the ova of the Palee ( Coregonus Palea , Cuv .
) ; the author 's mostly on the ova of the Char ( Salmo umbla ) .
After giving a description of the mature eggs of this fish , he details the trials instituted by him:-lst , on the action of water , showing its coagulating effect , except when added in very minute quantity .
2ndly , on the action of heat ; how that a dry heat , even so high as that of 212 ?
Fahr. , occasions the contraction of the vitellus from evaporation , but not its coagulation , an effect even not produced by steam of the same temperature , but which is occasioned by boiling in water , owing , it is inferred , to an admixture of water .
3rdly , on the action of alkalies and salts ; how these , such as potassa , ammonia and their sesquicarbonates in solution , nitre , acetate of lead , common salt and others , when of moderate strength , not only do not coagulate the vitellus , but have the property of dissolving a certain portion of coagulum , and coagulate it only when very much diluted .
4thly , on the action of acids and some other agents ; how the vegetable acids tried , as the tartaric , oxalic , acetic , whether strong or dilute , do not coagulate the vitelline fluid , but dissolve its coagulum ; how the strong sulphuric and muriatic acids inspissate it , the weak coagulating it ; and further , how it is coagulated by the nitric acid , by corrosive sublimate and by alcohol , but not by iodine .
The inference from the experiments drawn by the author is , that the vitellus of the Char and of the eggs of the other Salmonidme is distinct in its properties , both from the albumen and yolk of the eggs of birds .
He conjectures from analogy that the ova of other species of osseous fishes will be found to be similar ; but not so those of the cartilaginous fishes .
According to the observations he has made , the yolk of the eggs of fishes of this order , whether they possess a white , as in the instance of the oviparous ; or are destitute of a white , as in that of the viviparous , resembles in its general character that of the egg of birds : but he doubts that the white of the former will be found analogous to that of the albumen ovi of birds , at least in its chemical qualities ; having in one instance , that of the egg of the Squalus Catulus , found it to be , whilst transparent and viscid , neither coagulated by heat nor by nitric acid .
In conclusion , he suggests that the coagulation of the ova of the Salmonidee may have its use , inasmuch as the opaque white ova are more conspicuous than the transparent , the dead than the living , and in consequence , the one may serve as lures and divert from the others the many enemies to whom they are attractive food .

