A Paper was read , entitled , " On the Lunar Theory .
" Communicated by the Rev. Dr. Lardner .
The subject treated of in this paper is introduced by a review of the labours of Clairault , Euler , D'Alembert , and Thomas Simpson .
The theories of these eminent men , the author remarks , were very deficient in accuracy , and were not at all adequate , without correc ?
tion from observation , to the construction of tables .
They could serve only to point out the arguments of the equations , and not all even of these .
The inequalities of the moon 's motion are investigated by approximating processes , which lead to results more or less ac ?
curate , according as the approximations are carried to a greater or less extent .
The writers above mentioned had contented themselves with short and easy approximations ; and though they had aceomplished much , had yet left much more to be done .
Subsequently to these , Mayer published an elaborate theory of the moon ; but his coefficients required much correction , the results of his computations being in some cases found to differ very widely from observation .
c A much greater degree of accuracy was attained by La Place , who bestowed particular attention on the influence of minute quantities in every part of his theory .
In the present paper the author has endeavoured to introduce further improvements in the lunar theory , by carrying the approximations considerably further than they have hitherto been made .
In the solutions of the problem given by former mathematicians , the chief obstacle to the attainment of accuracy was the extreme length and labour of the necessary computations .
Another object , therefore , which the author has had in view , is to facilitate these computations , and render them less laborious .
This he endeavours to effect by the employment of certain artifices , by which the multiplicity of small terms will , with their co-efficients , be reduced within a practicable compass , and their numerical computation rendered less appalling .
The co-efficient of the equation depending on the moon 's distance from the sun , affords the means of calculating the sun 's horizontal parallax .
For this purpose La Place has computed this co-efficient with greater accuracy than the rest 5 and he makes the sun 's parallax nearly 9 " .
The author 's theory gives it little more than 8"- ; , which is very near the mean of the various results obtained by the observation of transits .
He thinks that there is , therefore , great reason to conclude that its true value is about this quantity .

