On the Composition of Zeolite .
By James Smithson , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 7 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 171 .
] Although the substance called Natrolite by Mr. Klaproth has lately been found , under a crystalline form , perfectly similar to that of mesotype , M. Haiiy has not thought himself warranted , from this circumstance , to consider these two bodies as of the same species , on account of the difference of their chemical composition ; because , according to the analysis of M. Vauquelin , there was not observed to be any soda in zeolite , but , on the contrary , a considerable quantity of lime , which is not a constituent part of natrolite .
Mr. Smithson , on the contrary , is inclined to consider them as the same substance , by the agreement of their chemical properties , as well as crystallographical form .
Although he had , many years since , found that the zeolite of Staffa contained soda , as has since been observed by Dr. Hutton and Dr. Kennedy , he still felt uncertain whether these were of the same kind as those analysed by M. Vauquelin : but having lately received from M. Haiiy a cluster of mesotype in rectangular prisms , terminated by a quadrangular pyramid , Mr. Smithson took this opportunity of ascertaining whether this substance and natrolite did or did not differ in their composition .
The method pursued by the author in the analysis of zeolite was first to expose ten grains of it to a strong heat , for the purpose of ascertaining the loss ; and he found it to be *95 grain .
An equal quantity was then dissolved in muriatic acid ; and after the solution had been evaporated to dryness , the residuum was exposed to a red heat .
Water was then poured upon it , and dissolved a portion , which , upon evaporation , was found to be muriate of soda , weighing 3-15 grains .
From the solution of this salt , neither carbonate of ammonia nor oxalic acid occasioned any precipitate ; by which it appeared that this zeolite contained no lime .
The residuum from which the muriate of soda had been extracted was next digested in muriatic acid , which dissolved a part , but left undissolved a quantity of silica , which , after being made red hot , weighed 49 grains .
The muriatic solution was then evaporated to dryness , and exposed to a red heat ; and the residuum appeared to be pure alumina .
Since it was possible that some magnesia might also be mixed with it , it was dissolved in sulphuric acid , and ignited ; but the residuum was not found to yield any sulphate of magnesia by addition of water to it .
The whole of the sulphuric acid , however , had not been expelled by heat , but was afterwards separated by nitrate of barytes ; and the alumina was estimated to amount to 2X7 grains .
The results thus obtained accorded so nearly with the analysis of natrolite , as given by Klaproth , that it was judged unnecessary to repeat his experiments on that substance .
Mr. Smithson is induced to prefer the name of Natrolite to that of Mesotype , from a desire to preserve unaltered the name given by Baron Cronstadt , the original discoverer of this class of bodies ; and this indeed appears but a feeble tribute of respect to the services which he has rendered to the science of mineralogy .
Since the crystallization of certain mineral substances , in which nothing but earths has been discovered , has appeared problematical to many persons , and has led to the supposition of the existence of unknown acids in their composition , Mr. Smithson endeavours to explain this difficulty , by suggesting that quartz itself may be considered as an acid , to which class of bodies it has analogous qualities : we shall then have a numerous class of silicates , both simple and compound ; and zeolite will belong to the latter , and may be regarded as a hydrated silicate of alumina .

