424 A Note on Dr. Chree 's Recent Discussion of Two Magnetic Storms .
By S. Chapman , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in the University of Manchester .
( Received November 1 , 1919 .
) In ' Proceedings , ' Ser. A , vol. 96 , pp. 32-55 , Dr. Chree describes certain records of two great magnetic storms which occurred in 1918 , and in connection with them adverts frequently to various portions of a paper* of my own , entitled " An Outline of a Theory of Magnetic Storms .
" On p. 32 he states that the two storms are of the kind discussed in my paper ( and to this I agree ) , but that the results differ much from those which I gave as representative of world-wide magnetic storms .
No precise summary of the alleged differences was given , and the only ones to which attention was expressly drawn seem to be as follows : ( a)f the initial sudden rise in the value of H ( horizontal force ) , as shown in fig. 1 of his paper , is much less , proportionately , than in the corresponding curve in my fig. 1 ; and ( 5)| while the Kew and Eskdalemuir H diagrams for March 7-8 resemble my fig. 1 , " it is otherwise " with the Agincourt H diagram for the first part of the storm .
As regards ( a ) , my fig. 6 , illustrating how the changes in H depend on the intensity of the storm , shows that the greater the storm the less is the ratio borne by the initial rise in H to the subsequent fall .
As Dr. Chree 's storms are much more intense than those illustrated in my fig. 1 the difference he notes is in accordance with my results .
S As to ( 5 ) , it is to be observed that Dr. Chree is comparing different things when he places the curves of his and my fig. 1 alongside each other .
In my paper I stated that the variation of H ( or other magnetic element ) at any station during a storm was composed of three parts , which I termed the storm-time , the local-time , and the irregular variations .
To derive * ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 95 , pp. 61-83 .
+ Log. cit. , p. 37 .
I Log. cit. , p. 39 .
S In connection with the influence of intensity on the course of a magnetic storm , Dr. Chree ( p. 39 ) refers to the acceleration of minimum phase with increasing intensity , which was noted in my paper .
He supposes me to have concluded that this acceleration is small , otherwise I " would hardly have derived ( my ) results , as one infers ( I ) did , from the superposition of storms irrespective of size .
' ' My fig. 6 , on the contrary , clearly indicates considerable acceleration ; and my storms , both those of fig. 6 and of those of fig. 1 , were carefully grouped according to size .
i Note on Dr. Chree s Discussion of Two Magnetic Storms .
425 the two former , regular , variations , I averaged the results ( in two different ways ) , from a number of similar storms , thus eliminating most of the accidental variations .
My fig. 1 illustrates only the resulting storm-time variations , the local-time variations being given in figs. 3-5 ; Dr. Chree 's fig. 1 includes all three parts of the variation .
It is not to be expected that , by mere inspection of the records of two or three stations for a single storm , one should be able to disentangle the three parts of the whole variation , and so to test whether these parts are conformable withi my results .
In the given case , however , the difference ( b ) indicated by Dr. Chree does not appear to conflict with those representative types .
If the difference were part of the accidental variation\#151 ; a quantity which cannot be predicted beforehand , nor recognized with certainty ( unless possibly from the results of many stations taken together ) when present\#151 ; nothing more need be said .
But it seems likely that in the given case the irregular variation is small ; the difference should then , according to my paper , be due to the presence of the local-time variation in Dr. Chree 's , but not in my , fig. 1 .
Dr. Chree mentions that this might be alleged as the reason , but rejects the explanation because the local-time variation in H at Kew and other European stations is small .
I agree that the latter is the fact , and see therein the cause of the similarity between the Kew H-curves and my own ; the local-time variation being small , its presence does not destroy the resemblance with my curve , from which it is absent .
At Agincourt , on the contrary , the local-time variation in H is not small , * and has a large maximum at about 18 h. local time ; to this I attribute the presence of the positive peak in Dr. Chree 's Agincourt curve ( fig. 1 ) at about 21 h. local time .
* The evidence for this will be given in a future discussion of the local-time variation at a number of observatories spread widely over the Northern hemisphere .
Cf .
also fig. 3 , section 16 , of my paper .

