]\gt ; Mr. J. W. L. on the [ June 15 , The question of the variation of the direct and ( 2 ) the diffused radiation is next discussed .
On comparing the curve epresenting the chemical intensity of diffused light with the curve of solar obscuration , it is found that the rate of diminution in chemical action exerted by the diffused light is up to a certain point greater than corresponds to the portion of eclipsed sun , whilst this point up to totality the rate of diminution becomes less than corresponds to the progress of the eclipse .
The same diminution in the chemical action of the diffused daylight during the early periods of the eclipse was also observed at Jamkandi ; it is doubtless due to the dal.k body of the moon cutting off the light from the brightly illuminated portion of sky lying round the solar disk .
The results of the observations at Catania are then compared with those made at Moita , near Lisbon , and communicated to the Society in 1870 .
This comparison shows a striking coincidence between the two sets of observations .
In each case it is seen that the relation between solar altitude and total chemical intensity is represented by a straight line , although the Catania obsel.vations slightly exceed , by a constant difference , those made at Moita in conformity with the slight difference in lalitude , and with the fact that the former determinations were made at a greater elevation above the sea-level .
The observations ful.ther confirm the fact which we announced , that for altitudes below the amount of chemical action effected in the plane of the horizon by diffused daylight is greater th that exerted by dir-ect radiation , and also that at altitudes below 1 Oo direct sunlight is almosC completely robbed of its chemically active rays .
VII .
" " On the Calculation of 's Constant By J. W. L. GLAISHER , B.A. F.R.A.S. Communicated by F.R.S. Reccived June 6 , 1871 .
The main object of the present comlnunication is to corl'ect some inac curacies both of reasoning and tion contained in two pers by Mr. .
' On the of of the of Napier 's Logal.ithms ; of the Napieriall Logalithms of 2 , 3 , 5 , and ; and of the Modulus of on the colYlmolt Systcm of ; all to of Dccimals in the Proc. Roy .
@oc .
vol. .
p. ; and " " On Calculation of the Numerical of uler 's Constant in the Roy .
Soo .
vol. .
p. 429 .
For the calculatiou of the constant .
ShanLs has used ( as , indeed , has every calculator who has computed the lue of the constant during present century ) the semiconvergent serios .
, ( i ) being the constant , . .
13ernoulli 's numbers .
C'alculation of Eule ' Mr. Shanks obtains the value of from this formula by making 20 , 50 , 100 , 200 , 500 , and 1000 , and remarks , as curious coincidence , that the number of decimal places obtained from made cquaI to 10 , 20 , 50 , and 100 is nearly proportionftl to , and On p. 432 he gives a Table of the number of decimal ) laces obtainable from the formula when .
has the values 2 , .5 , 10 , 20 , 50 , 100 , 200 , 500 , 1000 , and from it draws the inferencc that " " we may fairly infer th when is increased in a geometrical ratio , the corresponding number of decimals obtained in the value of increases only in like an rithmetical one , and that probably from 50,000 to 100,000 terms in the Harmonic Progression would to be summed in order to obtaiu 100 places of decimaIs in the value of , Luler 's \ldquo ; Algebraically , of course , is independcnt of in the fnula ( , but rithmetically , since the series uItimately becomes ellf , the of is so far dependent for a given of th series will only afford a certain number of placcs .
number of decimal places obtainable is equal to the number of ) preccde the first nificant figure in the value of the numericnllv lcnst series .
The nth term ( considering only the terms after in ( i ) , so that the nth term is the lerm involving which , si nce is very nearly equal to ; so that the ratio of the to the very nearly .
Let the great integer contained in so frnction , the rntio of to tcrm is less than nnity .
rnlio of to the tcrm is nollne to , 516 Mr. J. W. L. Glaisher on the [ June 15 , which is greatel or less than unity according as is less or greater than ratio of the to the term , which is always than unity .
the or term is the least as is less or greater When is lnrge the value of the term is which , by use of the theorem 1 .
3 . .
, becomes .
( ii ) The number which forms the negative characteristic of the common arithm of this quantity ( the mantissa being made positive ) , reduced by unity , denotes the number of hers which precede the first significant its value ; so that if the mantissa be not made positive , the characteristic indicates the number of decimals directly obtainable from the series .
The rithm of with its sign changed , after some expansions and reductions , becomes , being the modulus 43429448 .
Neglecting he last three terms , can only very lead to an error of a unit , we obtain as a result th the number of decimal places which the formula ( i ) will afford for a given value of is equal to the greatest integer contained in . . .
( iii ) The value of the lenst term is , of sily obtained ( iii ) , or it follows once from ( ii ) ; for the least term 1871 .
] Calculation of when is large , eing with ( iii ) .
The follolving Table , to that i11 .
p. 432 , was calculated in the way indicated of lormla .
1 . . . . . .
3 rd . . . . . .
2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13 The nulnber of decim ) cticolly oited by the difficulty of calculating the 's number of hich only thirty-one have been hitherto obtained .
By means of these , could be obtained of when by a few of the subsequent terms , each from its predccessor ( their ratio ) , 20 places more could be obtained without difficulty .
It is clcar therefore that s 's values of obtained from .
and ought to grcc b ) ) decim , if correctly cnlcnlated .
The at } ) osed that the of agreenlcnt as due to an insufficient nbel .
of ) terms involving the Bernoulli 's uumbc having been included , and he therefore uudcrtook the cnlcnlatiou of this portion of the for and to 1 decimal placts ; the results , howevcr , a diffcren cc in th ] ) lacc .
In otder to determine where the error existed , the same of the const was calculated also to 100 ) ) ; all the calculations ] ) erformed } holly i , and so much lvtls taken that the author felt slrong tion of their ftccnracy .
should be loticed that the recment of th the four csults old not necessarily accuracy of th of ; for rror luadc .
in the calculation of the 1 armonic sclies ) vould mcrely pro .
J. W. L. Glaishcr on the [ June duce the same errol in ' and , supposing the calculation of the reciprocals beyoud to have been accurately performed .
It was therefore evident that the only means of freedom from error in the harmomc series was to recalculate it .
The lowest value of which would for a verification was 100 ; the author therefore calculated the valuc of the to 100 places of decimals , and the result was found to to that extent with that given by Mr. Shanks in the paper prel.iously referred to ; the value of . .
was also found to be correct .
It may be meutioned that the calculation was by a simple artifice , suggested by 's Journal , , which will be easily understood from example .
Suppose the sums of the reciprocals of the odd and evcn mbers up to 50 are , and it is required to find the sum of the reciprocaIs up to 100 .
Let . . . .
; then so that and the ntiou of the reciprocaIs of the even numbers } is rendcred mecessary .
The values of and ) , lvhich vere required to fornt taken .
Shanks 's 'Rectification of the Circle ' they are also given in the Proc. .
Soc. vol. p. , and the summations of the harmonic series from Mr. Sh 's vol. .
p. 431 of the Proc. Roy .
Soc. The resnlts were folloxs : \mdash ; From : \mdash ; 4024 .
84454 84202 9119 . . .
( - ) .
1871 .
] Calculation of Euler 's Constant .
From : \mdash ; .
The terms , the .
nsed iu the lculation of ( A ) , ( B ) , ( C ) , It will be seen that ( A ) , ( 1 ) ) , ( C ) , differ in two respccts : ( i ) the figure in ( A ) i hile in ( B ) , ( C ) , and ( D ) it is atJd ( all four values are after the first discrepancy ( i ) pointed to au error in the of the rmonic scries .
As the uthor had vcrified .
Shanks 's valnc of ' it was ccrtain that ( the correct itluc .
To placc this beyonLl all doubt , } , the a/ lthor calculated fro to 57 placcs of decimtlls , tho result cntirely confil m .
It , therefore , .
Shnnks has made au in placc in the calcul .
' so that ve the errata :\mdash ; In tenth of ! .
of . .
' . . .
instcad of . . . . . .
of . .
With rd to the ) , nlscs the recment of the , it is no error in the Bernoulli 's numbers } ) iscrcI ) tcrnts involv i the latter vary their } thnt { 11 error in any one of tl1em could not { Yect the snme in ( A ) , ( B ) , , ) . .
J. W. L. Glaisher on the [ June 15 , By subtraction we find : ( CO ciphels ) .
80852 ( ) ciphers ) . . . . . .
hich only differ by unit in the 100th decimal place .
out of consider tion the terms involving Bernoulli 's the between the series when and when is . . . .
Similarly , the difference between the series when x and when is Now it is extremely improbable that two errors , exactly equa ] in a1nouut , old have been made in the calculations of and ) .
strong evidence that the value of is itnd thnt is ection to be applied to it .
, we obtain ( ciphers ) . . .
1 ) . . .
( ) The difference of the correspouding series ( omitting as before the terms ( the Bernoulli 's numbers ) I ] only his one* difference-resuJC it is impossible to from ( A ) , ( B ) , ( C ) , and ( D ) whether the harmonic series or or both are error ; but the ] ] places it beyond all doubt that ( is a correctiou to and that the sum of the harmonic series is corrcct .
By { ctilg ( D ) ight gct , but ] poltion ) of mouic scrics , as bc common to bolh .
1871 ] Calculation of Euler 's Constant . .
Shanks computed log 2 and log 5 from formulae of the form , , , and Rbeing infinite series ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. .
p. ' Rectification of the Circle , ' p. 88 ) .
If , therefore , any error was made in the deul tion of say , it old produce errors in and proportional and 16 .
On it was found that sixteen times ] ) cqual to scvell times ( , the diffcrcnce ; only as error of a in the 100th of or old produce .
This afforded a moral proof that Mr. Shanks had made au error equal to one-fourtcenth of ( E ) iu the calculation of which has endered his alues of ) ( with the ception of the error previously noticed ) the ouic scries summed correctly .
Since was calculated from the , its 1'alue is also is th of l0 and the modulus ( the reciprocal of ) .
The values of all these quantities giveu to ] ) laces i vol. .
Procecdings of the Roynl Society , p. 397 ; but the figures the 59th decimal place incorrect in ) case .
The corl.ect values to 100 places \ldquo ; It is to be th the no of is not quile vcll determined as the others ; culations i to Euler 's consttllt Mr. J. W. L. Glaishe on the [ June 15 , form a real vcrificiltion of , and ; they also verify , and ; but an error in in the transcription of , and , or their muItiplication by 11 , 8 , and 5 , or in the final addition and multiplication by 2 , would not be detected .
In the above thms the last figure may be in error to the extent of one or two units .
The value of Euler 's constant to 100 decimal places is\mdash ; 29174 67497 . . .
The last here also may be in error to the extent of one or two units .
It will be observed Mr. Shanks 's value*of for from ( C ) in the 65th decim place , and that his value for differs from ( D ) in the place .
This is caused by an inacculate value of having been use of .
The correct value of is ; but Euler , who first calculated it , made it ( ' Acta Petropolitann ' for p. 46 ) , and this incorrect is given in the Petm Cyclopaedia ' ( Article " " Numbers of Bernouili and probably other places .
The values of the thirty-one Bernoulli 's numbers are given in a paper by Ohm 's is givcn correctl .
there .
The reement of the values of Euler 's constant contained in this paper when the logarithms of 2 and 5 are correcte il ) afford a complete erification of the Bernoulli 's numbers as as , and partial verifications of the lest .
The difficulty and inconvenicnce of making calculations to so decimal places is sufficient to warl.ant the public tion of the values of the positive and negative parts of the portion of the series iuvolving the lloulli.s numbers , in case auy one desire to repeat any parb of the cnlculation .
We have . . .
; itnd if denotc the sum of the terms of the snme sign as the harmonic scl.ics , and the sum of the tcrms of the ) as the logarithms , .
if *Proc . .
Soc. vol. .
p. 432 .
71 .
] Calculation of Euler 's Constant .
then , when ] ) : \mdash ; ooooo . .
; . .
I . . .
62013 00900 ooooo cjilculntion fornled to I ] ) ures .
W. Amended Rule for working [ June 15 , POSTSCRIPT .
Received June 14 , Aftcr the completion of the above paper , author found that Mr. Shanks , in second , third , and fourth supplementary papers on the Constant* , extended his calculations so as to determine from , and 10,000 .
The values so obtained all differ in sixtieth decimal ; in fact the is taken , the further from the truth are the results , as the errors in the logarithms are multiplied by ]arger factors .
The calculation for a ification of the error of ; for on subtracting the value of from , we obtain ( after correcting ) a result agreeing with to 80 decimal places ( which is as far as Mr. Shanks has calculated the latter value of ) , with the exception of a difference of a unit in the \mdash ; an error probably in the summation of the harmonic series from 1000 to 2000 .
The values for and are esides the errors preiously noticed ) inaccurate from the VIII .
" " Records of the Magnetic vations at the Kew Observatory .
No. \mdash ; Analysis of the principal Disturbances shown by the Horizontal and Vertical Force Magnetometers of the Kevv Observatory from 1859 to 1864 By General .
EDWARD SAB1NE , IC. C.B. , President .
Received June 15 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) This paper exhibits an analysis of the disturbances recorded by the izontal and vertical force self-recording eters of Kew Observatory in the cars 1859 to diminution in the number and value of the turbnnces from a maximum in to a minimum in 1863 , the first moiety of the : ' decenllitd period and ring also the distribution of the disturbances , or diminishing the respective forces , in the several yeals , months , and IX .
" " Amcnded Rule for working out Sumllel.'S Method of a Ship 's Place .
By Prof. Sir THOIIISON , Reccived Jume 15 , 1871 .
In my previous communication on this )ject I described a according to which , in the first placc , lives were to be on the chart , from two sets of numbers out of a proposed then Sumnlcr 's line ( the line .
which tbc observation shows the to be ) to bc } ) olated , space them in the proportion of the differences of the sun 's decli .
vol. .
pp. , vol.

