142 On the Structure , Sfc .
, of Fossil Reptilia .
[ Apr. 26 , Y. " Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
IV .
On a Large Humerus from the East Brak River , South Africa , indicating a New Order of Fossil Animals which was more nearly intermediate between Reptiles and Mammals than the Groups hitherto known .
" By II .
G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received April 5 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The late Mr. A. G. Bain sent to the British Museum a bone , No. 36,250 , which the author regards as a right humerus .
It is 32 cm .
long .
The crests at its proximal end are compared with those in the corresponding bone of Saurischia , Omithosaurs , and Anomodonts ; and they show a strong general resemblance to the crests seen in Monotremes , though their direction may be more reptilian .
The distal end of the bone is entirely mammalian in plan .
Its resemblances are about equally strong to Edentata and Monotre-mata , and there are evidences of more distant relationship with Insectivora , with certain Mhrsupials , seals , and other Carnivora .
On the whole the evidence is insufficient to refer the fossil to the Monotremata .
It is named Propappus omocratus .
The author proposes to associate with it Stereorachis of Professor Gaudry , in an order named Gennetotheria .
While the humerus of Stereorachis only differs from Monotremes in generic characters , and conforms in plan to the monotreme rather than the edentate type , the shoulder-girdle is intermediate between Echidna and the Anomodont , and the dentition resembles that of reptiles like Lycosaurus and other Theriodonts .
VI .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
V. On Associated Bones of a Small Anomodont Reptile cord ulus , Seeley ) , showing the Relative Dimensions of the Anterior Parts of the Skeleton , and Structure of the Fore-limb and Shoulder-girdle .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received April 5 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) This specimen was collected by Mr. Thomas Bain at Klip Fontein , Fraser 's Berg , and registered in the British Museum as 49,413 .
The head is described in detail , and except in the very small size of the teeth , shows no difference of importance from the skulls attributed to Dicynodon .

