XXIII .
On the ultimate composition of simple alimentary substances ; with some preliminary remarks on the analysis of organized bodies in general .
By WILLIAM PROUT , M. D. F. R. S. Read June 14 , 1827 .
THE present being the first of several communications on the same subject which I hope to have the honour of laying before the Royal Society , a few observations on the origin and object of the whole series may not be deemed irrelevant .
Many years ago I published an anonymous Paper , containing some views , at that time new , connected with the doctrines of chemical proportions.* Though this Paper , for reasons which need not be here stated , was drawn up and published in a very hasty and imperfect manner , it attracted some notice ; and the views therein advanced gradually gained ground , and at present appear to be generally admitted in this country .
When this Paper was published , it was my intention to have pursued the subject further , bit I soon found my progress obstructed by insuperable difficulties .
The first and chief of these was the want of accurate data ; and the infinity of objects comprehended by chemistry prevented the hope of acquiring , by individual exertion , however unremitting , a sufficiency for the establishment of general laws .
Professional duties still further limited my exertions , and at length obliged me to relinquish chemistry in general , and confine my attention solely to the chemistry of organized substances ; a subject that has occupied the greater portion of my leisure hours for the last ten or twelve years .
Organic chemistry is confessedly one of the most difficult departments of the science ; and though much has been done , and more attempted on the subject , it is yet in a very imperfect and unsatisfactory state ; and it must be frankly admitted that Physiology and Pathology have derived less advantage from this most promising and really powerful of the auxiliary sciences , than might have been expected .
To explain this perhaps would not be difficult ; but as the explanation would be misplaced here , I shall merely observe , that dissatisfied with the old modes of inquiry , I determined to attempt a different one , and keeping in view the notions I had originally formed respecting chemical combinations , proposed to myself to investigate the modes in which the three or four elementary substances entering into the composition of organized bodies are associated , so as to constitute the infinite variety occurring in nature .
With these views my first object was to determine the exact composition of the most simple and best defined organic compounds , such as sugar , and the vegetable acids , a point that had been several times before attempted , but , as it appeared to me , without complete success .
About the same time also albumen and other animal products , as urea , lithic acid , &amp;c. were examined with similar views .
The subject $56 of digestion , however , had for a long time occupied my particular attention ; and by degrees I had come to the conclusion , that the principal alimentary matters employed by man , and the more perfect animals , might be reduced to three great classes , namely , the saccharine , the oily , and the albuminous : hence , it was determined to investigate these in the first place , and their exact composition being ascertained , to inquire afterwards into the changes induced in them by the action of the stomach and other organs during the subsequent processes of assimilation .
In conformity with this plan , the object of the present communication is the consideration of the first class or family above-mentioned , namely , the saccharine .
Preliminary observations on the analysis of organised substances .
Vegetable substances contain at least two elements , hydrogen and carbon ; and most generally three , hydrogen , carbon , and oxygen .
Animal substances are still more complicated ; and besides the above three , usually involve a fourth element , namely , azote , to which they appear to owe many of their peculiar properties .
These general facts have been known ever since the elements themselves have been recognised as distinct principles , though the determination of the exact proportions in which they enter into any particular substance , has always proved a most difficult problem .
To enumerate all that has been done on this subject would be loss of time ; and it need only be mentioned , that all idea of separating the different elements from one another , so as to obtain them perse , has been long since abandoned , if indeed it was ever entertained , and the general principle on which the analysis of organic products has been usually conducted , has been to obtain their elements in the form of binary compounds , either by destructive distillation , as was formerly practised ; or by combining the elements with some other element with which they possessed the property of forming definite binary compounds , from the quantity and known composition of which , those of the original elements might be readily obtained by calculation .
For this latter purpose oxygen has been the principle usually employed , which , as is well known , forms water with hydrogen , and carbonic acid gas with carbon ; two compounds not only as well understood as any in chemistry , but likewise , from their physical properties , well adapted for the purpose .
When azote is involved other means must be adopted , which will be fully considered hereafter .
The modes in which chemists have attempted to combine oxygen with the hydrogen and carbon of vegetable substances have differed very considerably .
The illustrious LAVOISIER attempted their union by burning the substance at once in oxygen gas , a method subsequently followed by SAUSSURE and others .
Afterwards the metallic oxides were employed for the purpose ; and BERZELIUS in particular informs us , that so early as 1807 he had tried the oxide of lead , but did not succeed with it.* In 1811 , GAY LUSSAC and THENARD published the analysis of different organic substances made by means of the chlorate of potash ; and , considering the nature of the apparatus they employed , they obtained admirable approximate results.t BERZELIUS , in 1814 , published an elaborate paper on the subject of vegetable analysis , in which he likewise employed the chlorate of potash , but in quite a different manner ; and to this celebrated chemist I believe we are indebted for the improvement subsequently adopted by most of his successors , of introducing the mixture of the substance to be analysed , and the oxide , into a narrow tube , and submitting the different portions of it to heat in succession .
The results of BERZELIUS were in general more accurate than those of his predecessors , especially as far as related to the quantity of carbon , but his method was not well adapted for determining the proportion of hydrogen.* In 1816 , GAY LUSSAC seems to have thought of employing the oxide of copper for the purposes of analysis , the introduction of which undoubtedly constituted one of the greatest improvements hitherto made in organic analysis ; and the use of which has continued to the present time , and will perhaps never be entirely superseded .
The oxide of copper has however some disadvantages , which it is one object of the present remarks to point out ; another is , to propose a form of apparatus free from most of the objections to which those hitherto in use have been more or less liable .
There are two methods of arriving at the quantity of water formed during the combustion of an organized substance ; either actually to collect and weigh it , as BERZELIUS did , or to estimate the quantity by the loss of weight sustained by the tube after the combustion .
The latter in general is the best method , and was that adopted by me from the first : it has since been followed by Dr. UR , and others.t Whichever method is adopted , it obviously becomes necessary that no extraneous water be present ; but all pulverulent substances , and oxide of copper among the rest , are more or less hygrometric , and rapidly attract moisture from the atmosphere .
This circumstance seems to have struck the French chemists , and it occurred to me at a very early period .
Dr. UR , however , was the first who published a method of obviating this difficulty ; and his method , if this were the only difficulty to contend with , is capable of considerable precision .
But there is another , and perhaps still more troublesome property , possessed by the oxide of copper , in common with many other powders , namely , that of condensing air as well as water ; * and these two difficulties , taken together in conjunction with another mentioned in a note below , render great precision almost out of the question.t To conquer these , every means that could be thought of , as likely to succeed , were tried , but without eiect , and I was obliged to relinquish employment alone of that substance perfectly useless when great accuracy is required .
It has been objected to the lamp that the heat produced by it is not sufficient ; but this is a mistake ; at least I have never met with any substance that resisted its action , provided the oxide of copper was well shaken up in the tube , or , if necessary , taken out of the tube and retriturated , and afterwards exposed to heat a second time , one or other of which ought to be done in al instances , whatever be the medium of heat employed ; for no ordinary heat will induce the oxide to part with its oxygen to a combustible substance at some distance off , and not immediately in contact with itself .
A great heat is also attended with some disadvantages , and among others , that of caulsing the oxide to adhere together in hard and solid masses , which thus becomes more difficult to be removed from the tube , and much less adapted for future experiments .
In general organized bodies are more difficult of combustion , and require more heat than crystallized ones .
The lamp described in the text I have only recently employed , and it answers the purpose in all respects better than any I have yet seen .
With respect to the sources of error above mentioned , it was found that 2oo grs. of the oxide of copper , recently ignited , gained , after ten or fifteen minutes exposure to the air , a quantity varying from 'oz to o05 gr. one half of which , or even more , was acquired before it became cold ; that is to say before it had cooled down to 1oo ?
, considerably above which point it began to acquire weight .
Of the increase of weight above mentioned , it was found that about x , or ?
, ( for the proportion varied from causes that I could not discover ) was due to the condensation of air , the rest was due to moisture .
The oxide I employed was perfectly pure , and prepared by exposing metallic copper to heat , Dr. UBE states , " that 1oo grs. of the oxide prepared from the nitrate of copper exposed to a red heat merely till the vapours of nitric acid were expelled , absorbed in the ordinary state of the atmosphere from *I to '2 gr. in the space of an hour or two , and about half that quantity in a very few minutes .
" In determining the quantity of water formed by the oxide of copper in the usual manner , there is yet another difficulty to contend with , to which we have alluded above , and which we shall here briefly notice .
It has been stated , that complete combustion seldom or never takes place during one exposure to heat , and that in many cases the oxide ought to be removed from the tube and retriturated .
Now it was found , almost invariably , that during the second exposure to heat , the tube , instead of losing additional weight , actually became leavier , sometimes to the the matter in despair , and endeavour to contrive some other mode of analysis that should be free from these difficulties altogether .
After a good deal of consideration I was induced to adopt a method which had occurred to me long before , but which I had never put in execution .
This method is very simple , and founded on the following well known principles .
When an organic product containing three elements , hydrogen , carbon , and oxygen , is burnt in oxygen gas , one of three things must happen .
i. The original bulk of the oxygen gas may remain the same , in which case the hydrogen and oxygen in the substance must exist in it in the same proportions in which they exist in water ; ( for it is well known that oxygen gas by being converted into carbonic acid gas is not altered in its bulk ) : or , 2 .
The original bulk of the oxygen may be increased , in which case the oxygen must exist in the substance in a greater proportion than it exists in water ; or , 3 .
The original bulk of the oxygen gas may be diminished , in which case the hydrogen must predominate .
Hence it is obvious , that in the first of these cases the composition of a substance may be determined by simply ascertaining the quantity of carbonic acid gas yielded by a known quantity of it ; while in the other two , the same can be readily ascertained by means of the same data , and by noting the excess or diminution of the original bulk of the oxygen gas employed .
Such are the simple and universally admitted amount of *03 gr. though often much less than this .
I was a good deal puzzled to account for this anomaly at first , but believe that it arose chiefly from the reoxydation of the partially reduced oxide , by the air of the atmosphere .
Since this Paper was read before the Royal Society , I have observed one or two other singular facts connected with this subject , which will be noticed when we come to speak of the analysis of substances containing azote .
362 principles in which the following method of analysis is founded ; the only novelty in which , therefore , is the form of the apparatus ; and of this it is hoped the following summary sketch , and annexed figures , will convey every requisite information .
Fig. i , Plate XIV , represents a front view or elevation of the whole apparatus in the act of being employed .
AB is a platform , two feet square , surrounded by a ledge about 2-i inches high , for preserving any mercury that may chance to fall about , and furnished with four adjusting screws ( of which two , C C , are sectional views ) , by means of which it may be placed perfectly horizontal .
Into this platform , in the manner represented , are fixed perpendicularly four square pillars , D E , D E , about four feet and a half high , at the top of which is placed another small platform , FF , about four inches wide , and which may be fixed or removed at pleasure by means of the brass pins a b , a b. II are glass tubes graduated with the utmost care to hundredths of a cubic inch , and which are cemented at bottom into semicircular iron tubes enclosed in the blocks KK ( as represented by the dotted lines ) .
These iron tubes project a little below the wood at the lower part , where they are furnished with iron stop-cocks , S S , for drawing off the mercury when it may be necessary .
Into the other end of these semicircular tubes are likewise cemented the glass tubes LL ( of smaller dimensions , and a little longer than the tubes I I ) , and forming with them , when taken together , inverted syphons .
The smaller tubes , LL , are represented as surmounted by funnels , R R , furnished with stopcocks , the object of which is to permit the mercury to flow into them with any velocity that may be required .
On the 363 tops of the larger tubes , I I , are cemented the vertical stopcocks , M M , of which fig. 2 .
Plate XV , is a sectional view on a larger scale , and which renders the construction so obvious , that perhaps no further remark is necessary , than merely stating that the cup , a , is filled wixth oil , and that the plug , b , which is square at the upper part , and adapted to a key , is furnished with a shoulder , on which the screw-cap , c , rests , and by means of which it may be tightened at pleasure.* On the platform , F F. ( fig. 1 .
) is a thin piece of wood , capable of being raised or depressed at pleasure , by means of the screws , 0 0 ; on this the lamp Q is placed , which may thus be placed at any distance that may be required from the tube , P. Fig. s , is an enlarged view of this lamp : it consists of two reservoirs , de , for holding the spirit , connected together by means of the tube , f , into which are placed , at the distance from one another of about of an inch a number of vertical burners , gg , &amp;c. about Tof an inch in diameter , and 4 inch long , and made as thin as possible , with the view of preventing the conduction of the heat .
These burners are each furnished with a few threads of cotton , and are bent a little alternately like the teeth of a saw , in order that their flame may envelope the tube , P , ( fig. i. ) more completely .
h is a cover for the wick of the lamp when not in use .
The ' These syphons are fixed together independently of the general frame work , and may be removed at pleasure by taking out the pins c d , c d , and of , of .
This admits of their being replaced by others of different sizes .
Those of a larger size have balls near the top , as represented by the dotted lines , and may contain as much as 2o cubic inches of gas .
It much facilitates the process of determining the exact quantity of gas contained in the apparatus , to have both legs of the syphon graduated , which may be easily done so as to obviate the effects of capillary attraction when the tubes are not both of the same calibre .
364 */ i ) i~~~~~~~~~ L 1L/ *0 63 X7 ; J/ 6'7'i\ 7c6/ IfP/ XXO)9Cl ' '*"f !
*/ , ~~~~~ i ' I_ I. IiIIIII iI IIIIIIIIII ii , lZ i -o JI I VI g 01 ---------- , .
/ ~lil ii ti ~Il ''i i ?
, I ' , ( .
, ( ~,.,.( ' ' f , , , ,x f : '~ ?
, .
tube , P , ( fig. 1 .
) is of green or bottle glass , moderately stout , and about of an inch internal diameter .
It is fixed between the horizontal parts of the vertical cocks , M M , so as to be perfectly air-tight ; and when required , the whole , or any part of it , may be heated by means of the lamp , Q , at the pleasure of the operator .
When the apparatus is to be employed , both the syphon gasometers , I L , I L , are to be filled with quicksilver , and a small green glass retort , containing the requisite quantity of chlorate of potash , ( and which had been previously heated so as to completely expel the common air , and to fill it with oxygen gas ) is to be attached to one of the cocks , as represented in fig. 4 , by means of a caoutchouc tube .
Heat is then to be applied , and any quantity of oxygen gas that may be required , introduced into the tube , I. After the whole has acquired the temperature of the atmosphere , the exact quantity of the gas is to be accurately noticed , as well as the state of the barometer and thermometer at the same time .
The tube , P , containing the substance to be analysed , is then to be firmly fixed between the cocks M M , * and subjected to heat , during which the oxygen gas is to be transferred from one syphon to another , through the red hot tube , with any velocity that may be required , and which may be regulated by means of one of the stop-cocks of the funnels , R R , and the stop-cock , S , of the opposite syphon .
Such is a general view of the apparatus , and the principles of its operation ; but perhaps a few practical remarks on some of the circumstances to be attended to during its employment , may not be deemed superfluous .
The substance to be analysed may be placed in a small tray made of platina foil , and introduced alone into the tube P , and gradually submitted to the action of heat and oxygen gas ; but this does not answer well with organic compounds , as a portion of them is apt to escape combustion .
Another method is to mix the substance with pure silicious sand , and to retain the mixture in the centre of the tube by means of asbestos .
But this method often fails , except there be about an inch of the oxide of copper at each end of the tube , which must be kept red hot during the experiment , and in this case it succeeds completely with many substances .
Another method , and that which the most generally succeeds , is to mix the substance with peroxide of copper , to heat these together in the tube in the first place , and afterwards to open the other stop-cock and send the oxygen gas through the ignited and partially reduced oxide , by means of which it again becomes peroxidized ; and any portion of the substance that had escaped complete combustion in the first part of the experiment , is now completely burnt .
This last method is also that employed when it is required to determine the quantity of carbonic acid gas yielded by a given quantity of any substance ; only in this case , of course , oxygen gas is not required , and the contents of the tube P , must be taken out and well triturated , and subjected to heat a second time .
If it should be required to analyse the gas formed , one method .
of removing it from the tube I , is represented at Fig. 5 ; and others will readily occur to the practical chemist .
The following are some of the advantages of this apparatus , and mode of analysing organic compounds .
In the first and chief place , there is nothing to be apprehendedfrom moisture .
Whether the substance to be analysed be naturally a hydrate , or in whatever state it may be with respect to water , the results will not be affected ; and the great problem , whether the hydrogen and oxygen exist in the substance in the proportions in which they form water , or whether the hydrogen or oxygen predominates , will be equally satisfactorily solved , and that ( of course within certain limits ) , independently of the weight of the substance operated on.* When however it is the object to ascertain the quantities of carbonic acid gas and water yielded by a substance , it is , of course , necessary to operate on a known weight ; but this being once determined , there is no fear , as in the common methods , of exposing the substance to the atmosphere as long as may be necessary .
The hygrometric properties of the oxide of copper , as well as its property of condensing air , are also completely neutralised , for the whole , at the end of the experiment , being left precisely in the same state as it was at the commencement , the same condensation of course must take place , and any little differences that may exist are rendered quite unimportant from the bulk of oxygen gas operated on , which of course should , in all instances , be considerably greater than that of the carbonic acid gas formed .
Another advantage of this method is , that more perfect combustion is ensured by it than by any other that I am acquainted with .
There is also no trouble of collecting or estimating the quantity of water , a part of the common process attended with much trouble , and liable to innumerable accidental errors , besides those already mentioned , and which there is no method of obviating or appreciating ; here , on the contrary , the results are obtained in an obvious and permanent form , and , from the ease with which they are thus verified , comparatively very little subject to error .
It need scarcely be stated , that the form and principles of this apparatus render it well adapted for many other chemical operations besides the analysis of organized substances .
Such , for example , as the reduction of oxides by hydrogen , and a variety of others that will readily occur to the practical chemist .
Of the Saccharine principle .
In the following observations , the word Sugar , is used in its ordinary acceptance ; but the extended sense in which the term saccharine principle is employed , requires a few remarks .
Messrs. GAY LusSAC and THENARD were induced to conclude , from their experiments on organized products , that when the hydrogen and oxygen of a substance exist in it in the proportions in which they form water , the substance is neither acid nor alkaline , as in sugar , starch , gum , &amp;c. ; that when the oxygen exceeds this proportion , the substance possesses acid properties ; that when it is less , an oily or resinous character.* These conclusions are true to a certain extent , but by no means universally so , as will be shown hereafter .
I shall however adopt this general distribution of $ Recherches Physico-chimiques .
ii .
321 .
368 organized substances so far , as to confine my attention at present to those substances in which the first peculiarity above mentioned exists ; and as sugar , on account of its crystalline form , appears to constitute the most perfect and definite of these substances , I have thought it best entitled to give a name to the whole class , or family , and hence have included , under the term saccharine principle , all those substances , whatever their sensible properties may be , into the composition of which the hydrogen and oxygen enter in the proportions in which they form water .
Now it will be found , that the substances thus constituted may generally be employed as aliments , and as they are chiefly derived from the vegetable kingdom , they may be considered as representing vegetable aliments , properly so called ; hence , saccharine principle and vegetable aliment may be regarded as synonymous terms , and they will be so employed throughout the present inquiry .
As a subject of general interest to chemists , as well as of considerable importance in the present inquiry , I shall also attempt to investigate the composition of a few of the compounds of the saccharine principle with oxygen , or what are usually denominated the vegetable acids .
Of Sugars .
Many analyses of sugar have been published by different chemists , no two of which agree with each other .
These discrepances have doubtless arisen from various causes , though one cause has probably been some real or accidental difference in the composition of the sugars employed.* How 4 Some years ago I published an analysis of sugar , in which the proportions of carbon to water were stated to be to one another as 40 : 60 .
I was not aware at many distinct varieties of sugar exist I do not pretend to know , but there are at least two , ( independently of the sugar of milk , manna , &amp;c. which belong to another series ) , and probably there are several others ; and it is to the mixture or combination of these in different proportions , and the frequent presence of foreign bodies , that a good deal of the confusion respecting the composition of sugar has undoubtedly risen .
Cane Sugar .
The strongest and most perfect sugar that I am acquainted with , is sugar candy carefully prepared from cane sugar .
This , purified by repeated crystallizations from water and alcohol , and deprived of the little hygrometric that time of the differences existing among sugars , and the results given were founded on the analysis of a specimen of remarkably fine looking sugar candy , a quantity of which I had purchased and kept by me for several years for the purposes of experiment.t At length my stock became exhausted , and I was surprised to find on analysing other specimens , that they in general contained upwards of one per cent. more of carbon than what I had before examined .
This induced me to recur to the notes of my former experiments , but I could detect no material error in them ; and though I readily admit that the apparatus I then employed was much less susceptible of accuracy than what I now use , I cannot help thinking that the candy itself was partly in fault , and that it was prepared from an imperfect sugar , probably from the East Indies .
There was also another circumstance which contributed to mislead me , not only in this but in all my other results , viz , an inaccuracy in the weight usually assigned to atmospheric air , at least as regarded my weights .
I have long suspected the perfect accuracy of this datum as settled fifty years ago by Sir G. SHUCKBURcGI , and have been accustomed for some time past to make an allowance for it ; but I was not aware till recently of its exact amount , when I was induced to undertake a series of experiments on the subject , which I hope shortly to lay before the public .
t See Annals of Philosophy , iv .
424 ( N.S. ) I do not distinctly remember whether , at the time this paper was published , some of the original sugar candy existed or not , but I had then only made one or two experiments on the sugar of commerce .
moisture that usually adheres to it by exposure for some time to a temperature of 212 ?
, was found to be composed of Carbon 4'85 Water -57'15 Now , all the finest and purest specimens of loaf sugar of commerce that I have yet examined , give , when similarly treated , precisely the same results .
They may therefore be considered as identical in their composition with sugar candy.* Cane sugar appears to undergo no change whatever at the temperature of boiling water ; but at about soo ?
it begins to melt , and assume the form of a dark brown liquid .
In one experiment , after exposure to this temperature for seven hours , it lost *6 per cent. only of its weight , but its properties seem to have been permanently injured .
BERZELIUS however has shown that , on being combined with lead , sugar parts with about 5*3 per cent. of water without undergoing decomposition ; for he has likewise shown that it may be obtained again from the lead in its original state .
This saccharate of lead I have several times formed , and once by accident I obtained it in the state of beautiful crystals .
Sugar of Honey .
The lowestt well defined sugar that I have yet examined , was first obtained from Narbonne honey , by means of a process formerly pointed out by me for obtain* Dr. UR states that he has found sugar to contain upwards of 43 per cent. of carbon ; but no such Specimen has occurred to me , though I by no means deny its existence .
Indeed I have hitherto met with no sugar as it occurs in commerce , yielding more than 42'5 per cent of carbon , and frequently it contains considerably less than this .
+ In commerce , these imperfect sugars are denominated weak or low sugars , which last epithet is here employed in this sense .
371 ing diabetic sugar in a state of purity.* This , deprived of its hygrometric moisture by being placed under a receiver with sulphuric acid for several days , was found to consist of Carbon 3636 Water 6363 This sugar in the ordinary state of the atmosphere usually contains more water than indicated by this analysis ; that is to say , generally about 64-7 per cent. On the other hand , on exposure to a temperature considerably below that of boiling water , it rapidly loses about s per cent. of water , and begins to assume the fluid form ; kept at the temperature of boiling water for 30 hours , it lost in one experiment upwards of lo per cent. of its original weight , became of a deep brown colour , and seemed to be partially decomposed.t Sugar prepared from starch evidently belongs to this variety , as is sufficiently indicated both by its sensible properties and composition .
The same is true in general of diabetic sugar , and probably also of the sugar of grapes , figs , &amp;c. When pure , all the varieties of this sugar are beautifully white , crystallize in spherules , and are permanent under the ordinary circumstances of the atmosphere .
Between these two extremes , sugars occur of almost every grade , as the following table will show .
Carbon .
Water .
Pure sugar candy 4285 57*15 a* Impure sugar candy 41'5 to 42.5 585 to 575.East India sugar candy ( v ) 41.9 58-1:English refined sugar 41*5 to 425 58'5 to 57'5 East India refined sugar ( v ) ' 4z2 57'8 Maple sugar ( v ) 42'I 57'9 Beet-root sugar ( v ) 421 57'9 East India moist sugar ( t ) 40o88 59 ' 2 Sugar of diabetic urine 36 to 40 ? ?
64 to 60 ?
Sugar of Narbonne honey 36'36 63'63 Sugar from starch 36'z 63'8 On some of these it may be necessary to make a few remarks .
The sugar candies of the shops frequently contain minute quantities of foreign fixed bodies , such as lime , &amp;c. , as well as others of a destructible character .
Both the specimens of India sugar candy I examined were obviously impure to the eye , being of a brown colour and deliquescent ; they contained , among other things , traces of potash .
The East India refined sugar was perfectly white , but rather soft and friable , and it did not possess the fine and brilliant grain of the best refined sugars of commerce .
For a specimen of the maple sugar I was indebted to Mr. FARADAY ; this , when I received it , was very impure and deliquescent , but by treating it by the process above alluded to , a portion was separated that differed but little in its appearance from cane sugar .
The beet-root sugar was made and refined in France ; it was perfectly white , but rather soft and fine in the grain .
The East India moist sugar was of a very low kind , and known in commerce by the name of Burdwan sugar ; it was deprived of its hygrometric moisture before analysis by exposure to sulphuric acid under a receiver .
The diabetic sugar was prepared as above ; the results given were obtained many years ago , and I have had no opportunity of repeating the analysis with the present apparatus ; I believe however that diabetic sugars in general belong to the Honey variety .
The sugar of starch was prepared by myself in the usual manner .
Of Amylaceous Principles .
Before we proceed to consider the analysis of amylaceous bodies , a few remarks on the nature of these and similar substances may not be deemed improper .
It has been known from the very infancy of chemistry , that all organised bodies , besides the elements of which they are essentially composed , contain minute quantities of different foreign bodies , such as the earthy and alkaline salts , iron , &amp;c. These have been usually considered as mere mechanical mixtures accidentally present ; but I can by no means subscribe to this opinion .
Indeed , much attention to this subject for many years past has satisfied me that they perform the most important functions ; in short , that organization cannot take place without them .
This point will be more fully investigated hereafter : at present it is sufficient merely to observe , that many of those remarkable changes which crystallized bodies undergo on becoming organized , are more apparent than real ; that is to say , their chemical composition frequently remains essentially the same ; and the only points of difference that can be traced , is the presence of a little more or less of water , or the intimate 374 mixture of a minute portion of some foreign fixed body .
There is no term at present employed which expresses this condition of bodies , and hence , to avoid circumlocution , I have provisionally adopted the term * merorganized , ( Aeo ; pars vel partim ) meaning to imply by it that bodies on passing into this state become partly , or to a certain extent , organized .
Thus starch I consider as merorganized sugar , the two substances having , as we shall see presently , the same essential composition , but the starch differing from the sugar by containing minute portions of other matters , which we may presume , prevent its constituent particles from arranging themselves in the crystalline form , and thus cause it to assume totally different sensible properties.t Wheat Starch .
The most perfect form of the amylaceous principle is undoubtedly that derived from wheat .
This has been analysed by different chemists with very different results .
MM .
GAY LUSSAC and THENARD state that they found it to contain as much as 43'55 per cent. of carbon ; while Dr. UR informs us that he only found 38'55 per cent. The following observations will sufficiently explain these differences .
A very fine specimen of wheat starch , which had been prepared expressly at my desire without the addition of the colouring matter commonly added to the starch of commerce , and which had been kept in a dry situation for many months , was found , in the ordinary columnar form in which it usually occurs , ( abstracting foreign matters ) to consist of Carbon 37'5 Water 62'5 .
One hundred parts of the same specimen reduced to a state of fine powder , and subjected to a temperature between 200 ?
and 212 ?
, for the space of 20 hours , * lost , in a mean of two experiments , 12'5 parts , and on being analysed in this state gave Carbon 42 8 Water 57'2 , which very nearly coincides with what by calculation it ought to have given , on the supposition that the loss of weight was owing to the escape of water , a circumstance indeed of which there could have been little doubt .
Starch however in this state still retains water , a portion of which may be separated by subjecting it to higher temperatures .
Thus , after having been exposed as above for 24 hours to the temperature of 120 , on being further submitted to a temperature between soo ?
and 350 ?
for six hours longer , it lost 2'3 per cent. more , and analysed in this state gave very nearly Carbon 44 Water 56 .
It had now acquired a slight yellow colour , and seemed to have suffered some change in its properties ; hence , this is probably nearly the utmost quantity of water that starch is capable of parting with , short of decomposition .
Arrow root .
This is another variety of the amylaceous principle , of which , like sugar , there seems to be a great variety .
The specimen on which the following experiments was made was remarkably fine , and free from adventitious matters .
It had been kept in the same drawer with the starch before mentioned , and under precisely similar circumstances of the atmosphere was found to consist of ( abstracting foreign matters ) Carbon 36*4 Water G6'6 .
One hundred parts , in the above state , exposed for twenty hours to a temperature between 200 ?
and 212 ?
, lost fifteen parts .
Hence its composition , when thus dried , was very nearly the same as that of wheat starch similarly exsiccated ; or it consisted of Carbon 42-8 Water 57*2 .
On being subjected to the full temperature of 212 ?
for six hours longer it lost 3s2 per cent. more , and was then reduced to a state similar to that of starch dried between soo ?
and 50 ?
, or it consisted very nearly of Carbon 44'4 Water 55.6 .
When subjected to the temperature of 3oo ?
and 350o for six hours longer , it lost 1 38 per cent. more of its weight , but became of a deeper yellow colour than starch similarly exposed , and consequently showed greater marks of decomposition .
Hence , this form of the amylaceous principle , like the sugar of honey before-mentioned , seems to part with the whole of the water not essential to its composition at the temperature of 212 ?
, or even perhaps below this point if exposed for a period sufficiently long .
It may not be deemed superfluous to notice here very briefly two or three circumstances resulting from the above analyses , which , though their importance may not be seen at present , should be constantly borne in mind , as they will enable us hereafter to throw light on many points connected with organization , which otherwise would be inexplicable .
In the first place , the identity of composition between the sugar of honey and arrow root , under the ordinary circumstances of the atmosphere , seems to show that the differences among the varieties of the amylaceous principles are precisely analogous to those existing among sugars , or in other words , that there are low starches as well as low sugars .
Whether arrow root be the lowest that exists , I am unable to say ; but I have met with none lower ; and have reason to believe that the greater portion of the other varieties of the amylaceous principle known to exist , like the varieties of sugars above given , are intermediate in their composition between arrow root and wheat starch .
The same remarks apply to other meirorganized principles .
In the second place , the identity of composition between wheat starch and cane sugar , and between the sugar of honey and arrow root above mentioned , seems to show that , though merorganized bodies are not actually capable of assuming the crystalline form , yet that the original tendency among their essential elements to combine in certain proportions ( and perhaps to assume certain forms ) still continues to operate , though in a mitigated degree , and thus to exert , as it were , a feeble nisus , or endeavour toward the maintenance of certain definite modes of existence .
Thirdly , and lastly , crystallized bodies usually part with their water of crystallization with difficulty , and when they do , it is commonly per saltum , or in definite quantities .
Merorganized bodies , on the other hand , retain water so feebly at all points , that within certain limits this fluid may be readily separated , or made to combine with them in every proportion .
And this appears to be true , not only with respect to water , but with other substances capable of combining with merorganized bodies .
It may be remarked also in general , that low varieties of principles resemble merorganized bodies in these and some other respects ; thus , they usually part readily with all the water not essential to their composition at the temperature of 212e , or even less ( provided they be submitted to it long enough , ) above which point they rapidly undergo decomposition , &amp;c. 379 Lignin , or the woody fibre .
Messrs. GAY LuSSAc and THENARD first showed that the hydrogen and oxygen in this principle exist in it in the proportions in which they form water , a result fully confirmed by my experiments .
The variety of forms in which lignin occurs in different woods is so great , that an examination of them all would be quite out of the question ; I therefore selected two , viz. the woods of the Box and Willow , which appeared to present the greatest contrast ; the one being among the densest , the other the lightest of the woods .
These were both treated exactly in the same manner , that is to say , they were first reduced to the form of a coarse powder by rasping , then well pulverised in a WEDGWOOD mortar , and afterwards sifted .
Being by these means reduced to the form of impalpable powders , they were boiled in repeated portions of distilled water till that fluid came off unchanged : a tedious process , requiring several days to accomplish perfectly .
After this they were similarly treated with alcohol , and finally again with distilled water .
They were now exposed to the atmosphere , when in a dry and favourable state ; and when they ceased to lose weight were submitted to analysis , and found to consist of ( abstracting foreign matters ) Box .
Willow .
Carbon 427 426 Water 573 574 A known weight of each was then exposed for twenty-four hours to a temperature of 212 ?
, and afterwards for six hours longer ( by means of an oil bath ) to a temperature between 380 soo ?
and 3500 ; and at the end of this time they were found to have lost , per cent. Box .
Willow .
14'6 14-4 Analysed in this state of desiccation , they were found to consist of Box .
Willow .
Carbon 500o 498 Water 500 50o showing that the loss of weight arose from the escape of water .
These latter results nearly agree with those of MM .
GAY LUSSAC and THENARD , as obtained from the analyses of the woods of the Oak and Beech , and seem to show beyond a doubt , that the composition of all of them is similar , or that they consist of equal weights of carbon and water ; to which simple analogy this important principle probably owes its stability .
Lignin undoubtedly exists in many other forms besides the woody fibre ; indeed it appears to constitute the skeleton or ground work on which most organic processes in the vegetable kingdom are carried on .
To illustrate its properties as an aliment , the only point of view in which we have to consider it here , I shall briefly quote the experiments of Professor AUTENRIETH of Tubingen , who showed some years ago , that by proper management this principle might be rendered capable of forming bread .
The following was the method he employed for this purpose .
In the first place , every thing that was soluble in water was removed by frequent maceration and boiling .
The wood was then reduced to a minite state of division , that is to say , not merely into fine fibres , but actual powder ; and after being repeatedly subjected to the heat of an oven , was ground in the usual manner of corn .
Wood thus prepared , according to the author , acquires the smell and taste of corn flour .
It is however never quite white , but always of a yellowish colour .
It also agrees with corn flour in this respect , that it does not ferment without the addition of leaven , and in this case sour leaven of corn flour is found to answer best .
With this it makes a perfectly uniform and spongy bread ; and when it is thoroughly baked , and has much crust , it has a much better taste of bread than what in times of scarcity is prepared from the bran and husks of corn .
Wood flour also , boiled in water , forms a thick tough trembling jelly , like that of wheat starch , and which is very nutritious.* It may be remarked that all the preceding principles are capable of being converted into oxalic acid by the action of the nitric acid , and into sugar by the action of dilute sulphuric acid .
Acetic Acid , or Vinegar .
This principle seems to have been more or less used as an aliment , either by accident or design , in every age and country .
There have been various analyses of it published , by different chemists ; but it is singular , that although some of them have given its exact composition , no one seems to have been struck with the most remarkable peculiarity of its composition , t viz. that the hydrogen and oxygen exist in it in the proportions in which they form water .
Some experiments which I made many years ago appeared to render this probable , but from the difficulties attending the analysis of this acid , and the uncertainty arising from the properties of the oxide copper formerly stated , I was unable to satisfy myself completely on the subject .
On repeatedly burning , however , a very fine specimen of the acetate of copper , in a given bulk of oxygen gas , with the apparatus described at the commencement of this Paper , it was found that the volume of the gas underwent no change , and hence , that the above opinion was correct .
Acetic acid , freed from non-essential water , I find to be composed of Carbon 47'05 Water 52'95 , results which almost exactly agree with those of other chemists .
Sugar of Milk .
The sugar of milk employed in these experiments was prepared by myself in the usual manner , and rendered as pure as possible by repeated crystallizations .
It was then freed from its hygrometric moisture by confinement under a receiver with sulphuric acid , and was found to consist of Carbon 40 Water 60 , results almost exactly agreeing with those of BERZELIUS .
of organic nature are combined , assigns to vinegar this composition .
See Annals of Philosophy , v. x74 ( O. S. ) Dr. THOMSON also , in the last edition of his Chemistry , gives the same composition ; though in his more recent work he has assigned to it another proportion of hydrogen .
Manna Sugar .
The saccharine principle existing in manna has been long known to possess peculiar properties .
That employed in the following analysis was separated by means of alcohol in the manner commonly described in chemical books , and was obtained in a state of perfect purity by repeated crystalizations from that fluid .
It was then dried at 12 ?
, and in this state was found to consist of Carbon 38*7 Water 61-3 results very different from those of M. THEODORE DE SAUSSURE.* This sugar seems to part with hygrometric water only at the temperature of boiling water ; but a few degrees above this point it begins to suffer decomposition , and at 250o it assumes , without melting , the form of a brown powder , and acquires a strong empyreumatic odour .
Gum Arabic .
A very fine specimen of gum arabic reduced to powder , and analysed as it existed under the ordinary circumstances of the atmosphere , was found ( abstracting foreign matters ) to consist of Carbon 36'3 Water 63'7 .
One hundred parts of the same gum , exposed to a temperature between 2oo0 and 212 , for upwards of 20 hours , lost 12-4 parts .
Hence its composition thus dried would be nearly Carbon 41 4 Water 58'6 .
Results confirmed almost exactly by actual analysis .
The same gum , further exposed to a temperature between soo0 and 35o ?
for six hours longer , assumed a deep brown colour , and seemed to have suffered decomposition , though it lost in weight only 2'6 per cent. more .
Hence , gum probably parts with the whole of the water not essential to its composition at the temperature of 212 ?
, provided it be exposed for a sufficient time to this degree of heat .
Substances belonging to this series appear in general to be of a weak or low kind , though they are probably very numerous .
They may be readily distinguished by being converted into saclactic acid by the action of nitric acid .
The vegetable Acids .
Oxalic acid .
Many years ago I ascertained that this acid in the crystallized state consists of Carbon 19'04 Water 42'85 Oxygen 38'11 , a composition assigned to it long since by other chemists , and now I believe generally admitted , except by Dr. THOMSoN , who informs us that he has met with a specimen containing as much as half its weight of water.* I have examined a great many specimens with the view of verifying this result , but hitherto have not been successful .
Citric acid .
This and all the following acids , except the malic , were analysed at the same period as the oxalic acid above mentioned , and the results have been recently verified .
I find the crystals of citric acid to consist of Carbon 34'28 Water 42*85 Oxygen 22-87 .
This composition has been approached very nearly by several chemists ; but no one , so far as I know , has given it exactly .
Tartaric acid in crystals is composed of Carbon 3 2o Water 36'0 Oxygen 32o0 , a composition assigned to it by Dr. THoMsoN in his work just quoted .
Malic acid .
I am not acquainted with any analysis of malic acid except that of M. VAVQUELIN , * which has not , I believe , obtained much confidence among chemists , chiefly on account of the large proportion of hydrogen which he assigns to it .
The acid I employed was obtained from the berries of the mountain ash by a process very similar to that of Mr. DONOVAN .
It was not analyzed per se , but in combination with lead , with lime , and with copper , and was found , abstracting water not essential to its composition , to consist of Carbon 40o68 Water 45'76 Oxygen 13-56 , This acid , in many points of view , may be regarded as one of the most interesting and important of all the vegetable acids .
Saclactic acid .
The unexpected composition of this acid induced me to investigate its properties more fully than I had otherwise intended .
What I first employed was obtained from the sugar of milk , and hence was tolerably pure , though not perhaps completely so .
Latterly , I have preferred that g Annals de Chimie et de Physique , vi .
337 .
S86 prepared from gum , which , though exceedingly impure as first obtained , may be easily and completely purified by the following simple process .
Add ammonia in slight excess to the impure acid , and afterwards as much boiling distilled water as will dissolve the saclactate formed .
Filter the solution while boiling hot , and then evaporate it very slowly nearly to dryness .
The saclactate of ammonia will be separated in the form of crystals , which are to be washed with cold distilled water till they become quite white and pure .
They are now to be again dissolved in distilled water , and the boiling saturated solution permitted to drop from a filter into cold diluted nitric acid .
This latter of course decomposes the saclactate , and precipitates the saclactic acid in a state of perfect purity .
Thus obtained , this acid was found to consist of Carbon 3'ss3 Water 44 44 Oxygen 22 22 results differing a little from those of other chemists , who probably did not take the necessary pains to obtain this acid in a perfectly pure state , In conclusion , I wish to observe , that I purposely abstain at present from making any further observations on the preceding results than those already given .
I do this for several reasons : in the first place , such observations will appear with greater effect , when the whole of the facts in my possession are laid before the public ; and secondly , I consider that data which lead to such important conclusions 387 as these appear to do , cannot be too firmly established ; I therefore , in the mean time , earnestly invite chemists in general to repeat them , and thus either to confirm them , or point out their errors ; and for the sake of those who may be inclined to take this trouble , I shall close this part of the subject with the following remarks : i. The multiples of hydrogen , carbon , and oxygen , are assumed in the preceding calculations as i : 6 : 8 .
2 .
The results given are , on all essential points , the means of many experiments , the differences among which are either inappreciable , or at most vary from 'oi to 03o of a cubic inch in from 5 to 8 cubic inches of carbonic acid or oxygen gas ; the greatest differences in general , being for obvious reasons , found among rmerorganized bodies ; and hence the analyses of these are usually stated to the first decimal figure only .
s. As rules to be observed , I would say , that a single result should never be registered , nor a single calculation made , till the operator has made himself complete master of his apparatus , and carefully studied the nature of the substance to be analyzed ; for different substances often require very different management : that two or three results should never be relied on ; the minute quantities here sought can be only obtained , like those of astronomy , by repeated observations : and lastly , the utmost care should be taken that the substances operated on be pure , a point of greater importance , and frequently of more difficult accomplishment than any other , and one that has caused me more trouble than all the rest put together .
388

