466 Miss M. Greenwood .
On Constitution and [ Dec. 14 , December 14 , 1893 .
Sir JOHN EVANS , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Treasurer and Vice-President , followed by Professor J. S. BURDON SANDERSON and Sir G. M. HUMPHRY , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Right Hon. James Bryce , a Member of Her Majesty 's Most Honourable Privy Council , whose certificate had been suspended , as required by the Statutes , was balloted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Constitution and Mode of Formation of Food Vacuoles in Infusoria , as illustrated by the History of the Processes of Digestion in Carchesium polypinum .
" By Marion Greenwood , Girton College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. N. Langley , F.R.S. Received October 28 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) Since the time that Ehrenberg first formulated his celebrated " polygastric " theory , there have been few writers on the Infusoria who have not confirmed his observations while combating the inter-pretation of them given by him .
For it was shown long ago that the " Magenzellen " of Ehrenberg are spherical food masses , and these , circulating with varying rapidity in the " endoplasm , " are so striking optically in most Infusoria that the literature of this group abounds in descriptions of or references to them .
There is , however , a lack of any details which would throw light on the precise mode of origin of these ingesta , and yet this point has interest , for , while relatively large food masses are swallowed by certain of* the ciliate Infusoria , very many forms are adapted only for the inception of minute solid particles , which seem far removed from the relatively large masses bo noticeable within the animals .
An extreme case of this disparity between the size of ingested particles and the size of food masses circulating within the body is found in almost any member of the Vorticellidse ; the form 1 have chosen for examination is Carchesium polypinum , which grows in pedicellate clusters , each polype being mounted on a highly retracti e 1893 .
] Mode of Formation of Food Vacuoles Infusoria .
467 stalk , and being made up of relatively transparent cell substance .
This animal shows such marked voracity upon occasion that I have counted 100 food masses within its substance ; at the same time it is only minute particles which are acceptable when offered for ingestion .
The shaping of the one form of matter from the other , then , promises to be a process of no small interest , and actual observation has made me think that it is more than merely interesting , that it may be regarded rather as the striking illustration of a process often masked in other Protozoa , but fundamental in nature .
I have fed Garchesium with nutritious and innutritions particles , with milk , with bacteria , with such flocculent precipitates as are thrown down by the interaction of ditch water and alizarin sulphate or congo-red , and with pigment grains\#151 ; carmine , Indian ink , or ultramarine blue .
All these are ingested readily , but the particles which perhaps serve best to illustrate the striking events of digestion are the finely-divided granules of proteid which form a precipitate when diluted white of egg is coagulated by heat .
When the white of fresh eggs is treated thus , the heat precipitate is generally abundant ; a very scanty coagulum may form , however , when the eggs from which the diluted fluid is prepared are stale .
It is known that any marked alkalinity hinders effective coagulation of albumen and that albumoses and peptones do appear in stale white of egg ; I think it fair , then , to suppose that Garchesium ingesting the abundant coagulation precipitate is ingesting minute irregular fragments of nutritious matter suspended in a dilute solution of salts , and that in administering the merely opalescent fluid a less obvious but possibly important substance is supplied\#151 ; soluble food .
All ingested particles , whatever their nature , pass from the exterior by a slightly sinuous ciliated pharyngeal tube which leads inwards from the wide mouth , and , spacious itself at first , narrows , to end internally in a small dilated sac , the oesophagus.* An anal ridge runs at right angles to the long axis of the polype at the junction of the outer and middle thirds of the pharynx , and from this ridge all effete matters are ejected , but food particles are gathered by the oral and pharyngeal cilia into the oesophageal sac , and , mixed in varying proportions with the fluid medium in which the animal is living , start from its most internal point on their intracellular career as a vacuole of ingestion .
Each vacuole of ingestion thus discharged by some obscure impulse performs a movement of progression ; it passes with a steady gliding motion towards the basal attachment of the polype , coming to rest at some point along the concavity of the band-like nucleus .
A period of quiescence follows and persists in healthy specimens for some seconds , and at its end the vacuolar contents , which up to this * I have adopted the terminology of K. .
G-reef ( ' Archly fur Naturgesch .
, ' Wieg-mann , yol .
37,1871 ) .
468 Miss M. Greenwood .
On the Constitution and [ Dec , 14 , point have been apparently in the condition in which they left the oesophagus , are rearranged in a very remarkable fashion .
The solid particles , it may he of proteid , of pigment , or bacteria , are gathered to a cluster , with a rapid centripetal movement ; those which are more peripheral leave the boundaries of the vacuole , and a composite solid mass lies in clear fluid surroundings .
The outline of constituents so strikingly individual as are bacteria or the fat globules of milk may still be made out in the cohering cluster , but Brownian movement is ended , as are the " proper " movements of any small organisms which may be present , and further change is not in the direction of freedom , but makes the union closer ; it tends to perfect the homogeneity of the composite solid .
To this rearrangement of matter I apply the term " aggregationfor the obvious feature of the act is the clustering of particles of matter which were scattered before .
It is most clearly demonstrable in vacuoles which contain but few minute particles suspended in a relatively large amount of water ; it is masked when the solid matter preponderates or is less finely divided .
No distinct relation can be traced , however , between the chemical character of the ingested matter and energy of aggregation , for nutritious and innutritious particles are moved with equal vigour and show equally little tendency to immediate subsequent separation .
I might enumerate no inconsiderable number of variations of this process* some dependent on peculiarities of the ingesta dealt with ( the presence of organic matter in solution , the rare enclosure of filamentous bacteria ) , some related rather to changes in the condition of Garchesium ( abnormally eager ingestion or exceptionally lethargic action ) , but through all the modifications I have observed the salient characteristic of aggregation of solids and synchronous separation of fluid may be traced , and in face of each , the question arises , " What force effects this movement and insures this redistribution of matter ?
99 In answer to this question , three hypotheses may be considered 1 .
It may be supposed that as particulate proteid matter if pressed together with some force tends to form masses which cohere after the pressure is removed , so in the vacuole of ingestion the approximately symmetrical discharge of small jets of fluid from the sur rounding protoplasm carries solid particles centripetally , and that , after displacement of the water between them , they cohere .
It is noticeable , however , that grains of Indian ink may be united firmly in aggregation and discharged as a solid mass , that relatively large granules ( such as the fat drops of milk ) are inseparable after the first marked centripetal shifting , !
and that nothing is more striking than # X use this term with some reluctance in face of the fact that it was applied by Darwin many years ago ( ' Insectivorous Plants ' ) to an entirely different process m the cells of the tentacles of Drosera .
f It will be gathered from what has been said above that only when these 1893 .
] Mode of Formation of Food Vacuoles in Infusoria .
469 the firm unbroken edge of a composite solid which abuts on the fluid .of the vacuole in which it was formed .
On these and other grounds this hypothesis appears to me inadequate , and I would lay but little stress upon it .
2 .
Again , it may be believed that , as in plasmolysed vegetable cells , the primordial utricle shrinks centripetally , gathering up in its retreat all granules which lie within or throughout its substance , so here a highly elastic pellicle , living , or the product of secretion , is set free from the walls of the vacuole and contracts rapidly , gathering within its lessening circumference all the solid particles which were suspended freely before .
The'unbroken line , which from the moment of aggregation marks off the clustered particles from the fluid in which they lie , does indeed suggest the presence of an enclosing film , but other experimental facts are clearly out of harmony with an hypothesis which postulates its existence .
Thus the , final cohesion of aggregated particles is at least as perfect in the centre of the composite mass as round its circumference ; when by certain changes which may follow .aggregation any particles are set free slowly , it is from the outside of the food mass only , and ejection from the body never means disintegration of the contents of an excretory vacuole , but is rather the freeing of a resistent solid .
Further , there is , rarely , a want of synchronism in the aggregation of the particles in a vacuole ; Brownian movement may persist for a time towards the end of the vacuole , when the majority of the granules present are quiescent ; in other rare cases the aggregated mass clings to the cell substance from which it is ( for the most part ) separated by fluid , by slender threads of almost invisible , possibly mucilaginous , substance , these threads breaking presently and being dragged into the central solid ; and it is usual to find that actual measurement of a food mass demonstrates the persistence of secondary shrinking after aggregation is over .
I am inclined then to think that a third hypothesis meets the case more fully than either of those just mentioned , and to suggest\#151 ; 3 .
That the solid particles which undergo change of position in aggregation are dragged together by the comparatively rapid retraction of some substance contained in the vacuole ; this substance is probably viscous .
Such an hypothesis does not , however , offer any description of the mechanism of retraction , and the nature of this mechanism is certainly obscure .
But I may point out that there are some undoubted resemblances between this rearrangement of substance and the phenomena which are grouped together as " clotting actions .
" In all perfected clots we have to recognise the interaction of two bodies or it may be the reconstitution of one body removed from the seat of most vigorous metabolic change\#151 ; the cell , and a separation of solid relatively large particles are present scantily in a vacuole do they move markedly in aggregation .
470 Miss M. Greenwood .
On the Constitution and [ Dec. 14 , matter and subsequent shrinking , both varying in character and extent , are common accompaniments of the fundamental chemical reaction of clotting .
In Carchesium , then , it may be that we meet with a modification of the process , that there is an intravacuolar discharge of matter which clots , shrinking rapidly , and not with the slow change of casein or fibrin , and that it , entangling any solid particles which are present , brings about the spasm of aggregation .
The substance is , indeed , not demonstrable usually by staining or other form of micro-chemistry , but delicate indicators of the presence of acid introduced into a digestive vacuole indicate that the vacuolar fluid begins to have an acid reaction about the time when aggregation is perfected .
It is conceivable , then , that an access of acid fluid at this point may help the effective retraction of the clot , or even its first formation .
When by the process of aggregation spherical ingesta have been welded together in the substance of Carchesium from digestible or indigestible particles , they journey through the " endoplasm " in a fairly constant fashion , but for a variable time .
Occasionally they are stored for hours after loss of the fluid of those vacuoles in which aggregation occurred ; at times the digestion of nutritious matter follows the preliminary clustering with no marked pause .
All nutritive ingesta present are not of necessity digested synchronously ; indeed , there is sometimes apparent caprice in solution , but certain features of the process are invariable whenever its onset occurs .
Thus , as in Amoeba , solution is effected in a fluid medium .
The stored up food masses of Carchesium , when they have lost their fluid surroundings , have reached the extreme point of density and shrinkage ; solution implies swelling , transparency , and re-formation of a vacuole if it has not persisted .
Digestion may take place at any point throughout a relatively large part of the central substance of Carchesium , but complete solution is extremely rare , and innutritions remains travel with varying rapidity towards the anal ridge from which they are discharged .
Thus they pass into the pharynx , to bo swept to the exterior eventually by ciliary currents .
It may be said that , other things being equal , the intracellular sojourn of ingesta tends to vary directly with their digestibility ; thus clusters of aggregated particles in which such bodies as carmine or Indian ink preponderate or stand alone have a relatively short time of enclosure ; the fluid of the vacuoles in which they are formed often disappears quickly , and there is but rarely ( in the case of unmixed innutritious matter ) that re-formation of fluid which is so nearly concerned in the solution of true food stuffs .
I have spoken hitherto with some vagueness of the duration of 1893 .
] Mode of Formation of Food Vacuoles in Infusoria .
471 successive events in the digestive process in and , indeed , the variability of many of them is marked .
Changing conditions of the animal , on the one hand ( and some of these changes cannot easily he controlled by the experimenter ) , and alteration in surroundings which may be bound up with temperature , aeration , illumination , or food , on the other , tend to bring out the elasticity of some of the periods which I have distinguished .
But this elasticity has limits , nor does it characterise equally all the phases in the digestive cycle .
We find that the total time of enclosure of innutritious matter may be as short as 30 minutes , that nutritious substances have a minimum ( recorded ) sojourn of 1 hour to If hour , and , on the other hand , that the time of enclosure may be prolonged to 30 hours .
This great variation is found on examination to belong to that period in the history of ingesta in which they are stored , inert and destitute of fluid surroundings .
The interval which separates successive acts of ingestion in any one series varies from 30 sec. to 65 sec. , and is commonly 40 sec. ; the duration of the movement of progression varies inversely ( roughly speaking ) with the duration of the phase of quiescence .
Thus , progression may occupy 5f sec. or 14f sec. , but is often 10-f- sec. ; quiescence , with a usual duration of 9 sec. , may be shortened to 5 sec. , or lengthened to 25-f sec. Aggregation is , as a rule , instantaneous in vigorous animals , but f- sec. or even -S .
sec. have passed between the onset and completion of the movement .
The act of solution is more variable ; I have seen very far reaching digestive change in 50 min. , but that variation should be more striking than constancy is hardly surprising in face of the unlike nature of possibly digestible matter .
Lastly , as I have said , the stage of storage may be omitted ; in this case digestion succeeds aggregation at once , the fluid of the digestive vacuole increasing in amount and ( presumably ) changing in composition ; on the other hand , ingesta may be stored for 22 hours before they are attacked by the true digestive secretion .
I have said above there seem to me to be grounds for regarding the aggregation of ingested particles in this complete and vigorous manner as a fundamental process in Protozoan digestion .
Striking as the phenomenon is in Garchesium , the actual displacement of matter which it involves is , of course , small , and effective demonstration is possible chiefly because of the great transparency of the acting cell substance , and because the food is naturally , or may be kept artificially , in a state of minute division .
Even in , how- ever , the marked retractility of the hyaline stalk of each polype often hinders observation ; and , when it is remembered that so many Protozoa are vigorously motile , or relatively opaque , or deal ( as do the Rhizopods ) with comparatively massive food , it is hardly wonderful that a secretion of matter which is ( by virtue of its own Prof. H. Marshall Ward .
[ Dec. 14 , characters ) practically invisible , has occurred without exciting especial comment .
R. Greet , in the paper to which I have referred , gives what I take to be a very brief description of the process of aggregation in Epistylis flavicans , and , looking back at observations made on the digestive processes in Amoeba some time ago , I feel that many which were puzzling then are in harmony with the experimental results recorded above .
Among these I may instance the very sudden quiescence after enclosure of such small organisms as monads , the firm union of unlike ingesta which were by chance enclosed together and so came to be in a common vacuole , and the cohesion after ingestion of particles of carmine or Indian ink .
And if further work should replace these scattered points of likeness by fuller , harmonious observations , then I think that the process of aggregation , owing the interest which it possesses , not to the obvious movement of particles , but to the more hidden mechanism which carries out the movement , may be allowed to have some such functional value as that indicated in Garchesium by the constancy of its duration and the constancy of its occurrence , whatever the chemical nature of the foreign particles involved .
It may perhaps rank as an expression of what has been lacking among the Protozoa\#151 ; what is clear enough among Coelenterata , with their well-defined , unicellular glands\#151 ; as an expression of obscure histological change bound up with the digestion of food , or more nearly with its preparation for digestion .
II .
" The Action of Light on Bacteria .
III .
" By H. Marshall Ward , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Botany , Royal Indian Engineering College , Coopers Hill .
Received December 14 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) Several observers , notably Arloing , Janowsky , Geisler , and Chemelewsky , have tried to determine which rays of the spectrum are chiefly concerned in the destruction of bacteria , but all attempts hitherto have been made by placing separate tubes of broth , gelatine , or potato cultures in the various regions of the spectrum , and judging of the relative rates of growth by the periods in which turbidity is apparent , or by the sizes of the respective growths on solid cultures , and their conclusions vary considerably .
The author has succeeded in obtaining photographic records by throwing the spectrum on an agar film evenly charged with the spores or bacilli to be investigated , and then observing the behaviour of the illuminated regions after incubation .
Various species have been employed , Bacillus anthracis , B. sub-

