VIII .
" On the k-partitions of a Polygon and Polyace .
" By the Rev. T. P. KIRKMAN , M.A. Communicated by ARTHUa CAYLEY , Esq. Received November 13 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) The problem relating to the polyace is the reciprocal of that relating to the polygon , and is not separately discussed .
By the k-partitions of a polygon , the author means the number of ways in which the polygon can be divided by ( k--1 ) diagonals , no one of which crosses another ; two ways being different only when no cyclical permutation or reversion of the numbers at the angles of the polygon can make them alike : it is assumed that the polygon is of the ordinary convex form , so that all the diagonals lie within its area .
The author remarks , that the enumeration of the partitions of the polygon and polyace is indispensable in the theory of polyedra , and that in his former memoir " On the Enumeration of x^edra having Triedral Summits and an ( --l)-gonal Base , " Phil. Trans. 1856 , p. 399 , he has , in fact , investigated the ( r--2)-partitions of the r-ace or r-gon ; so that the present memoir may be considered as a completion , or rather an extension and completion , of the investigations in his former memoir .
The number of distinctions to be made in the problem of the present memoir is very great ; thus , a partition of the polygon may be either reversible or irreversible ; and if reversible , then the axis of reversion may be either agonal , monogonal , or diagonal , that is , it may pass through no angle , one angle only , or two angles of the polygon ; and in the last case it may be either drawn or undrawn .
Again , there may be a single axis or a greater number of axes of reversion : in the case of m such axes , the partition is said to be m-ly reversible ; and in like manner an irreversible partition may consist of a single irreversible sequence of configurations , or it may contain such sequence m times repeated , it is then said to be m-ly irreversible .
In consequence of this multiplicity of distinctions , the author 's final results are necessarily very complicated , and cannot be exhibited in an abstract ; they appear , however , to contain a complete solution of the problem , i. e. to afford the means of finding , without anything tentative , the number of the k-partitions of an r-gon when k and r are given numbers .

