Reaction* of certain Synthesised Proteid-likc Substances .
337 it is shown that this assumption does not introduce any serious error within the limits of volume considered .
We then imd , t poss.ble to integrate the resulting differential equation , and the complete pram-tive enables us to draw a set of adiabatic curves .
We Mievethat this is the first time adiabatic carves have been obtained for any substance except perfect gases . .
, , c A mathematical discussion is added as to what extent the eqnatio and E = gT-h gjl ) = constant , can n be considered as strictly true , and not merely approximate The experimental results for liquid ether form an appendix to the paper .
" The Chemical and Physiological Reactions ^ of certain Synthesised Proteid-like Substances .
Preliminary Communication .
" By John W. Pickering , D.Sc ( Loud .
) .
Communicated by Professor Halliburton , F.R.S. Received November 10\#151 ; Read December 10 , 1896 .
The experiments of Professor Grimaux , * made more than ten years ago .
have until recently attracted but little attention amongst English physiologists , although that investigator has synthesised a series of colloidal substances which , in their chemical characteristics , show striking similarities to proteids .
Working alone , and in collaboration with Professor Halliburton , + have shown that three of the substances synthesised , viz. , the \#171 ; Colloids amidobenzoic A and B , " formed by the interaction of phosphorus pentachloride and meta-amido-benzoic acid at 1-5 U , according to the details described in Grimaux 's papers , and the " colloide aspartique " formed by the passage of a current^ of dry gaseous ammonia over solid aspartic anhydride heated to 125 C. , not only give the leading chemical reactions of proteids , but when intravenously injected into dogs , cats , or pigmented rabbits , ca-.se extensive intravascular coagulation of the blood , in a manner indistinguishable from the physiological action of nucleo-proteids .
A hen injected into the veins of albino rabbits or into the vascular system * Grimaux , ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol.93 , p. 771,1881 ; ibid. , vol , 98 , p. 105 , 1884 ; ibid. , vol. 98 , p. 1434 and p. 1578 .
t Pickering,4 Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 14 , p. 341 , 1893 ; ' Comptes Rendus , vol. 120 , p. 1348 , 1895 ; 4 Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' Feb. 16 , 1895 ( 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 17 ) ; ' Journ. ' Physiol. , ' vol. 18 , p. 54 , 1895 ; vol. 20 , p. 171 , 1S9G ; ibid. , vol. 20 , p. 310 ; Halliburton and Pickering , 4 Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 18 , p. 285 , 1895 .
338 Dr. J. W ; Pickemig .
The Chemical and Physiological of the Norway hare ( Lepus variabilis ) during its albino condition , these substances fail to induce intravascular coagulation of the blood , although they hasten the coagulation of the blood when drawn from the carotids , in a precisely similar manner to nucleo-proteids .
Taking these facts as the basis of my investigations , I have endeavoured to synthesise substances which will approach more nearly in their chemical and physiological reactions to proteids than those briefly described above ; and to further investigate the properties of Grimaux 's colloids .
I. General Description of Experiments .
I have up to the present sunthesised seven different colloidal substances , by the interaction of either phosphorus pentachloride or pentoxide on certain well-known derivatives of proteids , and the details of their preparation , physical properties , chemical and physiological reactions are described below .
Colloid a. Prepared by the interaction of equal parts of meta-amido-benzoic acid , biuret , #and three times its weight of phosphorus pentoxide at 125 ' C. in a sealed tube .
The best results are obtained by continuing the beating for about six hours , although a similar substance is obtained by heating for half an hour at 130 ' 0 .
The product of the reaction is a pinkish-grey friable powder , which is insoluble in cold water , and almost insoluble in boiling water .
This substance should be repeatedly washed until all traces of phosphoric acid are removed .
When heated with Millon 's reagent it fails to give the reaction characteristic of tyrosine and proteids ; it also does not give the well-known colour reactions with the salts of copper , nickel , cobalt , and caustic potash .
It gives the typical blue reaction associated with the name of Frohde* when heated with sulphuric and molybdic acids , as well as the xanthoproteic reaction .
If the amount of biuret exceeds the amount of meta-amido-benzoic acid , then the excess of biuret left over gives its typical colour reaction with copper sulphate and potash .
The pinkish-grey powder , obtained by the reaction described above , should be dissolved in ammonium hydrate , and the resulting solution evaporated down at the temperature of the atmosphere in vacuo , whenThe resulting product appears as a number of translucent yellowish plates , which are tasteless and inodorous , and closely i esemble in appearance both Grimaux5s colloides amido-benzoique and aspartique and dried serum-albumen .
These plates are with difficulty soluble in cold water , but readily pass into solution on warming .
The solution obtained does not coagulate on heating , but # FrShde , ' Annalen der Chemie , ' vol. 145 , p. 376 .
Reactions of certain Synthesised Proteid-tike Substances .
o39 if a trace of a soluble salt of either barium , strontium , calcium , magnesium , or sodium be added , a pronounced coagulum is obtained on 'h eating .
This point will be returned to you in a subsequent section , but the similarity to dialysed serum-albumen may be pointed out , as that substance is stated not to coagulate when heated.* * * S The solution does not coagulate spontaneously on standing , neither will the addition of " fibrin ferment ( i.e. , a nucleoproteidf ) induce coagulation .
It gives a typical xanthoproteic reaction , a violet with copper sulphate and potash , a dark heliotrope-puipie with cobalt sulphate and potash , and a faint yellow with nickel sulphate and potash .
It also gives Frolide 's sulpho-molybdic reaction ; I may , however , remark that I found that several substances chemically allied to proteids yield this reaction , which is therefore not diagnostic of proteids alone .
An alcoholic solution of alloxan giv es with the solid plates a brilliant red coloration ( Krasser'sJ reaction ) similar to that produced with plates of serum-albumen .
Negative results were obtained with the reactions associated with the names of Liebermann , S Adamkiewicz , || and Millon.ff The solution is neutral and laevorotatory ( \#171 ; d == 52 ) , and if treated with pepsin and a 02 per cent , hydrochloric acid , or by an alkaline solution of trypsin , for several days at 38 ' C. it does not peptonise .
Qualitative analysis shows that this substance does not contain phosphorus in its molecule .
It is precipitated from solution by mercuric chloride , silver nitrate , and lead acetate .
These precipitates yield the same colour reactions as the original substance .
The precipitate formed by the addition of lead acetate , like that obtained by the addition of this substance to a proteid solution , redissolves on the passage of a current of sulphuretted hydrogen through the solution in which it is suspended , and judging by chemical tests alone , the nature of the substance is unchanged by the processes of precipitation and redissolving .
Its physiological action is , however , markedly changed , as will be shown later on .
The original solution is readily precipitated by trichloracetic , phosphotungstic , phosphomolybdic acids , and by acetic acid and potassium ferrocyanide , as well as by salicylsulphonic acid ; the precipitate formed by this last substance is coagulated by heating in a manner similar to the coagulation produced by heating the precipitate resulting from the addition of this substance to a proteid * Schmidt and Aronstein , ' Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 8 , p. 75 , 187A f Vide Halliburton , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 18 , p. 306 , 1895 .
+ Krasser , ' Monat .
fur Chem. , ' vol. 7 , p. 673 ; ' Maly 's Jahresb .
, ' vol. 16 , p. 1 .
S Liebermann , ' Maly 's Jalires .
, ' vol. 18 , p. 8 .
( | Adamkiewicz , * Ber .
d. deut .
Chem. Gesell .
, ' vol. 8 , p. 761 .
1 Millon , ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 28 , p. 40 .
340 Dr. J. W.Pickering .
1 he Chemical and Physiological solution .
I may here mention that salicylsulphonic acid does not precipitate disintegration products of proteids like leucine , tyrosine , xanthine , or hypoxanthine .
All the precipitates cited above give the colour reactions characteristic of the original substance .
If the original solution is saturated with either magnesium sulphate , ammonium sulphate , or sodium chloride , the whole of the colloid rises to the surface of the liquid , and may be skimmed off .
On placing this scum in an excess of distilled water , it rapidly redissolves , forming a pale yellow opalescent solution , which gives all the chemical reactions characteristic of the original substance .
If the amount of neutral salt be insufficient to produce precipitation , the passage through the liquid of a current of carbon dioxide or of sulphur dioxide will effect the same result .
Neither of these gases will , however , cause precipitation in the entire absence of salts .
The following experiments illustrate the results produced by the intravenous injeqtion of this substance into dogs , rabbits , and cats .
The procedure adopted was identical with that described in the previous papers published by Professor Halliburton and myself , # on the intravascular injection of Grimaux 's colloids .
In all cases the animal was anaesthetised by a mixture of chloroform and ether , an excess of the latter substance being used when the subjects were dogs .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; Fox terrier ( weight 27 lbs , 10 oz. ) ; 25 c.c. of a 0'75 per cent , solution of the colloid a was injected , and proved fatal .
Pronounced exophthalmos and dilatation of the pupils , and typical stretching movements were observed .
Post-mortem examination made immediately after death revealed pronounced clots in the jugular vein , inferior vena cava , and portal vein , and a slight dot in the left ventricle and in the pulmonary artery .
Experiment2.\#151 ; Large black cat ( weight 9 lbs. 6oz .
) ; 40 .
c.c. of the colloid proved fatal , with similar symptoms as above .
Immediate post-mortem examination showed pronounced clots in the left ventricle , right auricle , inferior vena cava , portal , and jugular veins .
The remainder of the blood was fluid , but coagulated very rapidly after withdrawal .
Experiment3.\#151 ; Black rabbit ; 38 c.c. of the same substance produced a similar result .
Experiment 4.\#151 ; Albino rabbit ; 42 c.c. proved fatal .
Death was accompanied by pronounced exophthalmos and dilatation of the pupils and stretching movements of the limbs .
Post-mortem examination showed the blood throughout the vessels to be fluid .
It , however , rapidly coagulated after withdrawal from the vessels , and the coagulability of samples of the blood taken from the carotids during # Op. cit. Reactions of certain Synthesised \lt ; \gt ; .
o41 the injection of the colloid was also hastened ; thus after 20 c.c. of the colloid had been injected , the time of complete coagulation of blood withdrawn from the carotids was hastened by 2 minutes , after 30 c.c. by 3| minutes , and after 35 c.c. by 4 minutes .
It will be evident that the results recorded above are similar to , if not indistinguishable from , those produced by the intravenous injection of a nucleoproteid .
When slowly introduced into the circulation of dogs , and to a much lesser degree of rabbits , in minute quantities , the effect produced on the coagulability of the blood is the converse of that resulting from the introduction of larger quantities .
This effect is more pronounced than that obtained by the intravenous injection of Grimaux 's colloids , and more resembles Wooldridge's* " negative phase , " which is characteristic of a nucleoproteid , but is not so pio-nounced as the result obtained with that substance .
This result is illustrated by the following experiment Experiment 5.\#151 ; Large black mongrel .
Anaesthetic , ether and morphia ( weight , 60 lbs. ) ; 1 c.c. of a 0'025 per cent , solution colloid a was injected very slowly , the injection being distributed over half an hour , at the end of which time the retardation of the time of coagulation of blood withdrawn from the animal 's carotid was found to be 8 minutes 30 seconds .
A second dose of 1 c.c. of the same solution injected and distributed over 20 minutes caused a further retardation in the time of coagulation of the carotid blood of 2 minutes ; but a third injection distributed over a similar period of time hastened the coagulability of the blood that had been previously retarded , so that the retardation , as compared with the time of coagulation before the injection of the colloid , was only 1 minute 30 seconds .
After a still further injection of the colloid , the blood coagulated more rapidly than in the normal condition , and finally , when the dose was pushed , intravascular coagulation of the animal 's blood occurred , and death resulted .
If the colloid is separated from the solution by saturation with magnesium sulphate , sodium chloride , or ammonium sulphate , as before described , and the scum redissolved in distilled water , the opalescent solution obtained will , when intravenously injected into pigmented rabbits , produce typical intravascular coagulation .
Repetition of the process of precipitation and redissolving however , destroys the physiological activity in a manner similar to the result produced with both nucleo-proteids and Grimaux 's synthesised colloids .
If the solution formed by the passage of a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen over the precipitate formed by the addition of lead acetate to the colloid is injected intravenously into pigmented rabbits or * Wooldridge , ' Du Bois-Reymond 's Archiv , ' 1886 , p. 397 ; ' Proc. Boy .
Soc. , ' vol. 40 , p. 134 , 1886 .
342 Dr. J. W. Pickering .
The Chemical and Physiological dogs , it is found not to induce intravascular coagulation , although its chemical and physical characteristics are apparently unchanged .
This result shows that the chemical reactions used for " testing " proteids are not sufficiently delicate to indicate the chemical changes which are demonstrable by physiological methods .
The following experiment illustrates this result:\#151 ; Experiment 6\#151 ; Black rabbit ( weight 7 lbs. 9 oz ? .
) ; anaesthetic , chloroform and ether ; 120 c.c. of redissolved solution injected produced dyspnoea , exophthalmos , dilatation of pupils .
A further injection of 10 c.c. of this substance was immediately fatal .
Post-mortem examination failed to reveal any clots in the animal 's vessels .
Blood withdrawn from the carotids during the injection showed only one minute 's decrease in the time taken to complete coagulation .
Experiment 7.\#151 ; In another experiment , where minute quantities of this substance were very slowly injected , there was no retardation of the time of coagulation , like that produced by the original substance or by a nucleo-pnoteid .
Colloid ft.\#151 ; This substance is formed by heating together tyrosine , biuret , and phosphorus pentachloride in the ratio of equal weights of the two former substances , with twice the weight of the latter , for six hours at 125 ' to 130 ' C. in sealed tubes .
The product of this reaction is a grey powder insoluble in cold water , and very sparingly soluble on heating .
This substance gives the xantho-proteic and Frohde 's reaction , but fails to give typical colour reactions with the other reagents commonly used in testing proteids .
It should be repeatedly washed until all traces of the contaminating phosphoric acid are removed , and then dried in vacuo at about 30 ' C. It readily dissolves in concentrated ammonium hydrate , and the solution is opalescent and laevorotatory ( aD = \#151 ; 48 ) , and in appearance indistinguishable from that of the other colloids produced .
It gives the following distinctive reactions as classified in the annexed table , but does not digest when subjected to the action of either pepsin and 0 2 per cent , hydrochloric acid for three days at 38 ' CL , -or of an alkaline solution of trypsin , kept at the same temperature for a. similar time .
It yields the following distinctive reactions Colloid ft. CuS04 KHO .
CoS04 KHO .
NiS04 KHO .
H2S04 and molybdic acid .
Millon 's reagent .
HNO , and NH4OH ( heating ) .
Saiicyl sulphonic acid .
Violet- coloured solution .
Heliotrope purple- coloured solution .
Faint yellow- coloured solution .
Dart blue precipitate .
Dart red precipitate .
Orange precipitate .
Precipitate which coagulates on heating .
Reactions of certain Synthesised Substances .
343 It gives negative results with the reactions of Liebermann and Adamkiewicz , but gives the typical red coloration when the solid plates are heated with an alcoholic solution of alloxan ( Krasser 's reaction ) .
It is separated from solution by neutral salts in a manner similar to the colloid a and Grimaux 's colloids .
The scum also redissolves in distilled water giving an opalescent straw-coloured solution .
It is precipitated by silver nitrate , lead acetate , and mercuric chloride , as well as by phosphotungstic , phospho-molybdic , and trichloracetic acids , and by acetic acid and potassium ferrocyanide .
In the entire absence of salts it is not coagulated on boiling , but , on the addition of a trace of a soluble salt of either sodium , magnesium , barium , strontium , or calcium , a coagulum is obtained on heating to 74 ' C. The fractional heat coagulation of this substance will be dealt with in a subsequent section .
The effect produced by the intravascular injection of various quantities of this body is illustrated by the following experiment:\#151 ; Experiment 8.\#151 ; Brown mongrel ( weight 27 lbs. 7 oz. ) ; anaesthetised with ether and morphia .
The jugular vein on the one side , and the carotid artery on the other , were exposed , and cannula^ inserted into them .
The colloid ( 3 was injected into the jugular vein , and samples of blood withdrawn from the artery .
The following table shows the rate of clotting of the various samples :\#151 ; .
( 1 ) Before injection of the colloid , the blood clotted in 10 minutes 30 seconds .
( 2 ) 5 c.c. of 0'75 per cent , solution of colloid dissolved in 0'75 per cent , saline injected .
A firm clot formed in 17 minutes 8 seconds .
( 3 ) 10 c.c. more injected .
Loose clot in 22 minutes .
( 4 ) 10 c.c. more injected .
Firm clot in 31 minutes .
( 5 ) 10 c.c. more injected .
Firm clot in 13 minutes .
( Q ) After interval of 5 minutes a second sample of carotid !
blood formed a firm clot in 7 minutes 30 seconds .
( 7 ) 7 c.c. more injected .
Firm clot in 7 minutes 30 seconds. .
( 8 ) 10 c.c. more injected .
Firm clot in 6 minutes .
( 9 ) 15 c.c. more injected .
Firm clot in 3 minutes .
( 10 ) 10 c.c. more injected and proved fatal .
Immediate post-mortem examination revealed loose clots in vena ' cava inferior , and jugular vein , and pronounced clots in portal vein , and right ventricle .
This experiment shows the " negative " after injection small quantities of the colloid f3 , and the typical hastening of the coagulability of the blood withdrawn from the carotid after the intravenous injection of VOL. LX .
2 D 344 Dr. J. W. Pickering .
The Chemical and Physiological a larger dose , and finally the coagulation of the intravascular blood when the dose is again increased .
Colloid 7.\#151 ; The colloid 7 is formed by heating together at 130 ' C. in sealed tubes , for three hours equal weights of alloxan and metamido-benzoic acid , with twice their weight of phosphorus pentoxide .
The product of the reaction is a white powder , very slightly soluble in cold water , and sparing soluble in warm water .
It should be washed in ice-cold water till the excess of phosphoric acid is removed , and the remaining substance dissolved in concentrated ammonia .
The resulting solution is opalescent and straw-coloured , and should be evaporated down at the temperature of the laboratory in , when a number of translucent , yellowish plates , closely resembling the previously described colloids , are formed .
These plates are soluble in warm water , and the solution is pale straw-coloured , opalescent , and lsevorotatory ( aD = \#151 ; 41 ) and shows the following reactions:\#151 ; Colloid 7 .
hno3 nh4oh .
( heating ) .
Millon 's reagent .
Frohde 's reaction .
CuS04 and KHO .
NiS04 and KHO .
C0SO4 and KHO .
Salicyl- sulphonic acid .
Yellow solution .
Dirty brown ppt .
Blue precipitate .
Yiolet solution .
Very faint yellow solution .
Dark brown solution .
No precipitate .
It is separated from solution by saturation with either magnesium sulphate , sodium sulphate , sodium chloride , or ammonium sulphate , the colloid rising to the surface of the liquid as a white scum , which redissolves , forming an opalescent solution when thrown into distilled water .
It is precipitated by silver nitrate , lead acetate , and mercuric chloride .
If the precipitate formed by the addition of lead acetate is suspended in distilled water , and a current of sulphuretted hydrogen is passed through the liquid , the precipitated colloid again passes into solution .
When heated in the presence of a trace of a neutral salt , fractional heat-coagulation is obtained , which will be detailed in a subsequent section .
If the colloid 7 is injected into the circulation of dogs or pigmented rabbits , even in large quantities , it does not produce intravascular coagulation , although it somewhat hastens the coagulability of blood withdrawn from the cai'otid .
The colloid 7 , although yielding many of the chemical reactions that have been used as distinctive tests for and also behaving in a very similar manner to the previously colloids , does Reactions of certain Synthesised Proteid-like 345 not , like them , produce intravascular coagulation when intravenously injected into pigmented rabbits .
Neither will the colloid 7 when introduced into the circulation of dogs , very slowly and in minute quantities , produce a retardation of the coagulation of blood withdrawn from the carotids .
Colloid 0.\#151 ; The colloid c is formed by heating at 125 ' C. in sealed tubes for three hours , equal weights of para-amidobenzoic acid and phosphorus pentachloride .
The resulting product , a grey friable powder , insoluble in cold water , was , after washing to remove the contaminating phosphoric acid , dissolved in concentrated ammonia , and evaporated down at a low temperature vacuo .
The resulting substance appears as a number of translucent yellowish plates , apparently similar to those previously described .
They are soluble in warm water , forming an opalescent straw-coloured solution , which is laevorotatory ( aD = \#151 ; 42 ) .
This solution gives the xantho-proteic and Frohde 's reaction , but fails to give the typical colour reactions of proteid-like substances with salts of copper , cobalt , or nickel and caustic potash ; neither does it give the reactions of Millon , Lieber-mann , or Adamkiewicz .
It is not precipitated by salicylsulphonic acid , but it is precipitated by salts of the heavy metals .
Neutral salts separate it from solution like the preceding substances .
When freed from salts , it does not coagulate on heating , but if a trace of sodium chloride or of another neutral salt be present , it coagulates on heating to 75 ' C. When intravenously injected into pigmented rabbits , it fails to produce intravascular coagulation , neither does it hasten the coagulability of blood withdrawn from the carotids .
It fails to induce a " negative phase " in the coagulation of dogs ' blood .
This series of results lends additional support to the view that the coagulation of the blood resulting from intravenous injection of the colloid , is due to the interaction of the colloid with the constituents of the plasma , and not to the heavy nature of colloid molecule .
Colloid e.\#151 ; The colloid e is prepared by heating together equal weights of tyrosine and xanthine with twice their weight of phosphorus pentachloride at 125 ' C. for three hours .
The product of the reaction is a yellowish powder slightly soluble in warm water .
After repeated washing in cold water , it is dissolved in concentrated ammonia , and the resulting solution evaporated down at a low temperature .
The resulting substance consists of a number of translucent yellowish plates like those previously described .
It is readily soluble in warm water , forming a yellowish opalescent solution , which is lsevorotatory ( aD = \#151 ; 38 ) .
This solution gives a typical red when heated with Millon 's reagent , which is not due to an excess of tyrosine , since the intermediate product in the preparation of the substance fails to give this reaction .
It does not give any other of the distinctive proteid colour reactions , 2 d 2 346 Dr. J. W. Pickering .
The Chemical and Physiological but is precipitated by salicylsulphonic acid , and the precipitate coagulates on heating .
It behaves with neutral salts and salts of the heavy metals similarly to the previously described substances .
It does not cause intravascular coagulation of the blood when intravenously injected into dogs or pigmented rabbits , neither will the very slow injection of minute quantities into the circulation of dogs indace a " negative phase .
" It does not induce coagulation when added to 1 per cent , sodium carbonate plasma .
Colloid \#163 ; is prepared in a similar manner to the colloid hypo-xanthine being substituted for xanthine .
It has a similar appearance to the colloid e , is laevorotatory ( aD = \#151 ; 40 ) , gives Millon 's reaction , and negative results with the other tests characteristic of proteids .
It also behaves with neutral salts and salts of the heavy metals in a similar manner to the previously described substances .
When intravenously injected into the circulation of dogs or pigmented rabbits , it fails to induce intravascular coagulation , neither will it cause coagulation when added to extravascular 1 per cent , sodium carbonate plasma .
Colloid rj.-\#151 ; The colloid y is prepared by the interaction of tyrosine and phosphorus pentoxide for three hours at 130 ' C. in sealed tubes .
The product of this reaction is a pinkish friable powder , sparingly soluble in cold water and soluble on boiling .
This substance does not yield Millon 's reaction .
After washing in cold water to remove the contaminating phosphoric acid , the powder is dissolved in concentrated ammonia , and a straw-coloured opalescent solution is obtained .
This is evaporated down vacuo , and the resulting substance appears as a number of plates , similar in appearance to those of the previously described colloids , and which are soluble in warm water , giving an opalescent solution .
This solution is precipitated by salicylsulphonic acid and the precipitate coagulates on heating .
It is also precipitated by salts of the heavy metals , and separated from solution by neutral salts .
It does not yield any of the distinctive colour reactions of proteids , and fails to produce intravascular coagulation when intravenously injected into rabbits .
II .
The Fractional Heat Coagulation of Synthesised Colloids .
The method of differentiating the members of a mixture of proteids by fractional heat coagulation was introduced by Halliburton , * and employed by him more especially in the examination of the proteids of serum .
This method was subsequently used by Corin and Berardf in separating the albumins of the white of egg , and by Chittenden * Halliburton , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 5 , p. 159 .
f Corin and Berard , ' Bui .
de l'Acad .
Boy .
de Belgique , ' vol. 15 , 4 , 1888 .
Reactions of certain Synthesised .347 and Osborne* in studying the proteids of maize .
The method was rendered more accurate by Hewlett , !
who substituted a bath of cod-liver oil for the water bath usually employed as the heating medium , and exhaustively dealt with the adverse criticisms made by Haycraft and Duggan.\#163 ; I have applied this method , using an oil bath , in the examination of the proteid like colloids synthesised by Professor Grimaux and myself .
As pointed out in a previous section , in the entire absence of salts these substances do not coagulate , even when boiled .
Por the sake of comparison the following experiments were performed , so as to satisfy the following conditions:\#151 ; ( a ) A 2 per cent , solution of the substance under examination was always used .
( 6 ) The diluent fluid always consisted of a 075 per cent , solution of sodium chloride , ( c ) In each experiment 10 c.c of the fluid under examination was used , and the test-tubes , were of uniform internal diameter .
By this means the mass to be heated remained constant .
( ) The thermometer was placed in the middle of the test-tube containing the fluid under examination .
The colloid A ( " collo'ide amidobenzoique " of Grimaux ) shows a coagulation temperature of 70 ' to 71 ' C. The colloid B ( of Grimaux ) which is prepared from the same reagents as the colloid A , but the temperature at which the reaction of synthesis is conducted is allowed to rise to 130 ' C. , shows on heating one faint appearance of flocculi at 56 ' to 58 ' C. , and a second more pronounced coagulum at 70 ' to 72 ' C. The colloid C ( " colloide aspartique " of Grimaux ) on fractional heating shows three distinct sets of flocculi , appearing respectively at 58 ' , 67 ' , and 737 ' to 76*4 ' C. The colloid a , if cax-e has been taken to keep the temperature of preparation constant at 125 ' C. , shows , on heating , only one coagulum at 70'6 ' ; if , however , in the preparation of this colloid the temperature of synthesis is allowed to rise , a second colloid coagulating at 42 ' C. is often but not always formed .
The colloid / 3 , even when the temperature of the synthesis has been kept constant at 130 ' C. , shows , on heating , three constituents coagulating at 47 ' C. , 56 ' C. , and 74 ' C. The colloid 7 apparently only has one temperature of heat coagulation , viz. , 75 ' C. The colloid 6 coagulates at 75 ' C. The colloid e coagulates only at 47 ' C. The colloid \#163 ; coagulates at 48 ' and 59 ' C. * Chittenden and Osborne , ' Amer .
Chem. Journ , ' vol. 13 , 7 and 8 ; vol. 14 , 1 .
t Hewlett , 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 13 , p. 493 , 1892 .
X Haycraft and Duggan , ' Brit. Med. Journ. , ' 1890 , vol. 1 , p. 167 ; ' Edin .
Roy .
Soc. Vroc .
, ' vol. 16 , p. 361 , 1888-9 .
; .$4S Reactions of certain Synthesised Substances .
The colloid / / coagulates only at 52 ' C. Adopting the conclusion of Halliburton that the precipitates obtained by the fractional heat coagulation of a proteid substance , correspond with various constituents of that substance , we may possibly conclude that those synthesised colloids which yield frac-tional heat-coagula are mixtures of different colloidal substances .
Thus the colloid B would consist of two substances which might be designated B !
and B2 , and the colloid / 3 of three substances , designated colloids / i2 , and / 33 respectively , and the colloid of two substances , c , l and 82 .
I have endeavoured to ascertain in the cases of the colloids B !
and B2 and of the colloids ( 3U and / ?3 whether each of these substances will equally induce intravascular coagulation of the blood , when intravenously injected into pigmented rabbits and dogs .
The method of procedure adopted was briefly as follows :\#151 ; The activity of a solution of the colloid was tested by a control experiment .
One of the constituents was removed by fractional heat-coagulation and the effect , if any , produced by the intravascular injection of the remaining colloid in solution was tested.41 The following is the record of some of the results obtained:\#151 ; Colloid B2 after a removal of colloid Bt will , if intravenously injected , induce intravascular coagulation in pigmented rabbits , and if slowly injected in minute doses a " negative phase " in dogs .
Colloids ft2and fi3 will still , after the removal of colloid / 3U induce intravascular coagulation in pigmented rabbits , although a much larger dose is required after the removal of / 3t and [ i2 than if the mixture of the three substances is injected , if only is removed the activity of the mixture is not impaired .
From this I conclude that ji2 and fi3 are the active constituents of the colloid mixture I have designated as the colloid / 3 .
There is apparently no difference in the tendency to induce a " negative phase " in dog 's blood after the removal of fix and from the solution .
III .
Other Properties of the Synthesised Colloids .
The influence of these substances on red and white blood corpuscles , and on extravascular 1 per cent , sodium carbonate plasma will be described in a subsequent paper .
IV .
Concluding Remarks .
It is evident from the observations recorded in the preceding pages , that if certain derivatives of proteids , and other substances of * The solution after removal of one of its constituents by fractional heat-coagulation , was evaporated down in vacuo until it had the same specific gravity as the original solution .
On the Growth of the Blastoderm the Cldch .
349 allied chemical constitution are heated together in sealed tubes with an excess of either phosphorus pentacliloride or pentoxide , a series of colloidal substances are formed which , when freed from the contaminating phosphoric acid , and dissolved in concentrated ammonia , give opalescent solutions that , on evaporating down , yield substances closely resembling in physical , chemical , and physiological properties certain proteids .
* These colloidal substances , although they differ from one another in minor details , are usually distinguished by the following characteristics :\#151 ; 1 .
They are soluble in warm water , forming opalescent laevorota-tory solutions .
2 .
The resulting solutions yield the principal colour reactions hitherto deemed diagnostic of proteids .
3 .
In the absence of salts , solutions of these colloids do not coagulate on heating .
In the presence of a trace of a neutral salt they coagulate on heating at temperatures very similar to proteid solutions .
4 .
Fractional heat-coagulation shows the colloidal solutions are a mixture of different substances .
5 .
The different constituents of the colloidal solution exhibit different physiological action .
6 .
In the presence of an excess of neutral salts , or of salts of the heavy metals , the colloidal solutions behave in a manner similar to proteid solutions .
7 .
When introduced into the circulation of pigmented rabbits , dogs , and cats , certain of these substances ( viz. , the colloids designated A , B , C , at and / 3 ) produce intravascular coagulation of the blood m a manner similar to a nucleo-proteid .
They also hasten the coagulability of the blood withdrawn from the carotid , and will , when slowly injected intravenously in minute quantities into dogs , produce a retardation of the coagulability of the intravascular blood , .
, a " negative phase .
" 8 .
Apparently these colloidal substances are , owing to both their physical and chemical properties and their physiological behaviour , the nearest synthesised bodies at present known to proteids .
..An Experimental Examination into the Growth of the Blastoderm of the Chick .
" By Richard Assheton , M.A. Comnnmicated by Adam Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received November 12 , \#151 ; Read December 10 , 189(5 .
In making an experimental study of the growth of the blastoderm of the chick , I had two chief objects in viewr :

