II .
" On some of the Metamorphoses of Naphthalamine .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received January 10 , 1856 .
The great facility with which some of the nitro-hydrocarbons can be reduced by means of iron and acetic acid the modification of Zinin 's process , lately proposed by M. Bechamp-enables us to obtain the corresponding bases in larger quantity , and to examine their derivatives more minutely .
One of the bases , for the preparation of which this process is particularly applicable , is naphthalidine , or as it is more appropriately called , naphthalamine .
Mr. William H. Perkin is engaged in examining the deportment of this substance with chloride of cyanogen , and the following is a summary of the results he has at present obtained .
Fused naphthalamine , when submitted to the action of chloride of cyanogen , absorbs this gas with great avidity , and is gradually converted into a dark resinous mass .
This is the hydrochlorate of a new base , which has received the name of menaphthalamine , in consequence of the analogy of its origin with that of melaniline , derived by a similar process from aniline .
Menaphthalamine is separated from the hydrochlorate by potassa , washed and repeatedly recrystallized from alcohol .
It contains C42 H1,7 N , , nd is formed according to the equation 2C , o H 1N + C2 NC1 = C42 H17 Ns HC1 .
NaphthalaChloride of Hydrochlorate of mine .
cyanogen .
menaphthalamine .
Mr. Perkin has verified this formula of menaphthalamine by the analysis of the hydrochlorate and of the platinum salt , which respectively contain C42 H17 N3 , HC1 and C42 H17 N3 , HC1 , PtC12 .
Among the various metamorphoses which menaphthalamine undergoes under the influence of agents , the deportment of this substance with cyanogen has especially engaged the attention of Mr. Perkin .
Menaphthalamine , like melaniline , absorbs two equivalents of cyanogen , and is converted into a slightly crystalline buff-coloured substance , which retains feebly basic properties .
The analysis of this body , which , from its composition , may be termed dicymenaphthalamine , has led to the formula C46 H17No = C42 1117 N+ Cy2 .
Dicymenaphthalamin is insoluble in water , moderately soluble in alcohol and ether .
It dissolves readily in acids .
The latter solution , when precipitated by potassa , immediately after it has been made , yields unchanged dicymenaphthalamine ; but if the solution be allowed to stand for a few moments , a yellow substance is precipitated , which is no longer a salt of dicymenaphthalamine .
The composition of this yellow body , which , in accordance with the terminology adopted in the aniline series , may be called menaphthoximide , is represented by the following formulaC46 I'-I N3 04 , and its formation is illustrated by the equation-C46 H17 N , + 4110 + 2IIC1 = C44 I115 N , 04 + 2NII4 C1 .
DicymenaphMenaphtboxthalamine .
imide .
In fact , the mother-liquor of this substance contains a large amount of ammonia .
Menaphthoximide may be viewed as binoxalate of menaphthalamine minus 4 equivalents of waterC42 H17 N3 HC2 04 , IC2 411O = C46 I N , 04 ; Binoxalate of menaphthalaminc .
Menaphthoximide .
and this view is corroborated by the deportment of the substance with potassa , which reproduces menaphthalamine and oxalic acid .
From the preceding experiments , it is obvious that the deportment of naphthalamine with chloride of cyanogen is perfectly analogous to that of aniline .
The subsequent metamorphoses of the newly-formed compound also exhibit the same analogy .
Aniline series .
Naplithalamnine series .
Aniline ... ... CII HN Naphthalamine ... .
C20 HN Melaniline. .
C6 II13 N3 Menaphthalamine. .
C42 H17 N3 Dicymelaniline C:0 II13 N5 Dicymenaphthalamine C46 H117 N. Melanoximide CO3 H13 N3 04 Menaphthoximide. .
C46 H17 N 04 Results of much interest are to be expected from the examination of the products formed by the action of heat on menaphthoximide .
It is probable that this reaction would produce the naphthalamine term , corresponding to anilocyanic and cyanic acid .
Cyanic acid ... ... ... ... C2 1H NO , Anilocyanic acid ... ... ... . .
C4 , H NO , Naphthocyanic acid ... ... C2 H 11NO2 Menaphthoximide , when heated , yields , in fact , a vapour of a most penetrating organic odour ; but Mr. Perkin has not yet obtained sufficient material for a more minute examination of the body to which it belongs .

