Dr. and Mrs. Huggins .
Note on Nova Aurigce .
February 25 , 1892 .
Mr. JOHN EVANS , D.O.L. , LL. D. , Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Preliminary Note on Nova Aurigse .
" By WILLIAM Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Mrs. Huggins .
Received February 24 , 1892 .
We have delayed up to the present time presenting any account of our observations of Nova Auriga ) , in the constant hope that time weather would enable us to make our observations more complete .
We think now , however , that it may be of interest without further delay to send a short preliminary notice of this remarkable , and , in some respects , unprecedented , celestial phenomenon .
For up to this time we have no record of a star in the spectrum of which the bright and dark lines of the same substances have been regarded as indicating respectively motions of approach and of recession of so great magnitude .
It was partly for this reason that we were anxious for the opportunity of observing if any change in the amount of relative motion would show itself .
We received a telegram from Dr. Copeland in the early morning of the 2nd instant , and began our observations of the star on the night of the 2nd instant .
Perhaps the most noticeable feature to the eye in the star s spectrum was the great brilliancy of the hydrogen lines at C , F , and G ; but the point of greatest interest was obviously that two of these lines , F and G\#151 ; and we have since observed the same with C were accompanied each by a strong absorption line on the side towards the blue .
Comparison with the lines of terrestrial hydrogen , while confirming the obvious presumption that the star-lines were really those of hydrogen , showed at once a large motion of recession of the bright lines and a motion of approach of a similar order of magnitude of the hydrogen which produced the absorption .
A photograph which we have since taken gives the star 's spectrum as far in the ultra-violet as about \ 3200 .
On this plate we see not only the other hydrogen lines at h and H , but also the series beyond , 466 Prof. J. Norman Lockyer .
[ Feb. 25 which is characteristic of the white stars , bright , with dark absorption lines on the blue side .
Besides the hydrogen series there appear to be other lines doubled in a similar manner , including the sodium lines at D. The line K , which is at least as strongly impressed upon the plate as H , is not followed by so strong an absorption .
In the green part of the spectrum three very brilliant lines are seen on the red side of F. One of these falls not far from the position of the chief nebular line ; but even when the shift of the spectrum is taken into account , we can scarcely regard this line as the true nebular line .
In this connexion it was a point of some importance to find that the strong and very characteristic line of the Orion nebula , which falls about X 3725 , is absent in our photograph of the Nova , also the strong line between a. and / 3 at about \ 3868 .
[ The third line from F is rather broad and resolvable into lines .
It falls partly upon the more refrangible pair of the magnesium triplet at 6 , but its character and position do not permit us to ascribe it either to magnesium or carbon.\#151 ; Feb. 25 .
] We wish to mention an early photograph of this star taken on the 3rd instant by Father Sidgreaves , at Stonyhurst , which we had the privilege of examining .
This successful photograph extends from about h to near D , and shows the remarkable doubling of many of the bright lines by dark ones , a feature which was at once noticed by Father Sidgreaves and ourselves .
In our photograph the spectrum of the star , which extends on the plate as far into the ultra-violet as our photographs of Sirius , is crowded throughout its entire length with dark and bright lines .
In the visible region the number of bright lines and groups , including the double line of sodium , a fine line about the position of D3 , and lines on both sides of C , is also very great .
We prefer in this preliminary note not to enter into any more detailed discussion of the star 's spectrum , nor to refer to the probable phenomena which may now be in progress in this celestial body .
We reserve these considerations for the present .
II .
" Note on the New Star in Auriga .
" By J. NORMAN Lockyer , F.R.S. Received February 25 , 1892 .
Since my note of February 11 , observations of the new star have only been possible at Kensington on seven evenings , namely ) February 11 , 12 , 13 , 16 , 22 , 23 , and 24 .
The 13th and 22nd were the only two very fine nights .
The star now appears to be fading .
In the photograph of the region taken on February 3 the Nova appeared to be brighter than

