306 XII .
" On the Action of Bile upon Fats ; with Additional Observations on Excretine .
" By W. MARCET , M.D. , F.R.S.5 Assistant Physician and Lecturer on Chemistry to the Westminster Hospital .
Received June 10 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) Having formerly observed and communicated to the Societe de Biologic of Paris , that by heating a solution of neutral tribasic phosphate of soda ( 2NaO .
HO .
PO ) mixed with animal fatty acids , an emulsion was obtained attended with the formation of a small quantity of soap , while no such action occurred if neutral fats were used instead of fatty acids , I was induced to inquire into the nature of the action of bile on neutral fats and fatty acids ( sheep 's bile being used ) , with the final object of throwing , if possible , some additional light on the digestion of fats .
These investigations led to the following results:1 .
A mixture of bile and neutral fats ( stearine , oleine and margarine ) , heated to a temperature above the fusing-point of the fat , undergoes no change , and no chemical action takes place .
2 .
A mixture of bile and fatty acids ( stearic , oleic , and margaric acids ) , heated to a temperature above the fusing-point of the fatty acids , is transformed into a solution , a very few and minute globules only of fat remaining unacted upon from the presence of oleic acid .
This solution becomes a perfect emulsion on cooling , and is attended with a chemical decomposition of the bile ; and further , if the emulsion of bile and fatty acids be filtered when quite cold , and the residue on the filter thoroughly washed with distilled water , the filtrate and washings mixed together again possess the property of forming an emulsion with another quantity of fatty acids , being also at the same time partly decomposed , although in the previous operation the bile appeared to have exhausted its power on the fatty acids .
The filtrate and washings from this second operation again act upon a fresh quantity of fatty acids , and so on ; only in every subsequent operation the proportion of emulsion obtained appears to diminish , and the induced chemical decomposition to be lessened .
3 .
Pure oleic acid , when agitated with bile , cold or hot , produces no emulsion or chemical action whatever .
4 .
The stomach during digestion has the power of decomposing 307 the fats contained in the food into fatty acids , fats acquiring thereby the property of being acted upon chemically by the bile , and of being transformed into an emulsion .
The chemical action , or saponification , induced by the fatty acids under the above circumstances , was proved by the mixture acquiring a strong acid reaction ; and it was further observed that the acid filtrate from the cold emulsion was not precipitated by hydrochloric acid , showing apparently that fatty acids exert on bile a chemical decomposition at least as extensive as hydrochloric acid .
With the view of determining precisely the amount of soap formed , a method of analysis was adopted calculated to indicate the proportion of fatty acid remaining unacted upon by the bile : the difference between the fatty acids used and the result of the above operation was equal to the weight of the fatty acids saponified .
It was found , in three analyses , that the mixture of bile and fatty acids being exposed for three hours ( in Analysis II .
for 3 hours ) to the heat of an open water-bath , contained an amount of soap in which the proportion of fatty acids was 30'2 ] per cent. , 20'5 per cent. , 11 5 per cent. of that employed in the analysis .
The filtrate from the emulsion in analysis No. II .
, mixed with the solution obtained by washing the emulsion with distilled water , was treated for three hours on the water-bath with a fresh quantity of fatty acids , which operation yielded a proportion of fatty acid saponified equal to 12'7 per cent. of that used in the analysis .
Finally , the filtrate and washings obtained in this last group were mixed with another quantity of fatty acids , and exposed for three hours to the heat of the water-bath , in which case the proportion of fatty acid saponified was equal to 3'8 per cent. of that used in the analysis .
The various operations had been attended with the formation of an emulsionr In order to be certain that , after exposing a mixture of bile and fatty acids to the heat of a water-bath for three hours , the chemical action thus induced was completely exhausted , two analyses were undertaken according to the process just mentioned , and with bile from the same gall-bladder ; but in one operation the mixture was heated for three hours , and in the other for six hours : the proportion of fatty acid saponified was the same in both cases , showing that after three hours the bile had ceased to act on the fatty acids .
Having obtained the above results , anl inquiry was next undertaken 308 respecting the state of the fats of food in the stomach during digestion .
For this purpose the contents of the stomach of several dogs , fed with cooked meat and neutral sheep 's fat , were examined at different stages of digestion ; the acids of the stomach soluble in water were removed by protracted washings with distilled water , and the residue being treated with alcohol and ether , yielded solutions found to contain fatty acids .
In some cases the contents of the stomach were first treated with alcohol , and the fatty matters thus obtained subsequently washed with distilled water , and finally again dissolved in alcohol and ether .
These analyses constantly yielded fatty acids , which , when heated with fresh sheep 's bile , were found to dissolve and produce , an emulsion .
In order to determine whether the cooking of the meat with which the dogs had been fed had transformed any of the neutral fats into fatty acids , a sample of roast meat was mixed and washed with distilled water until the washings had completely lost their acid reaction ; the meat was then mixed with alcohol and allowed to stand for more than a week .
After that time the fluid was found to be perfectly neutral , showing that no fatty acids had been formed .
From these researches it appears that the presence of bile in the intestines is closely connected with the digestion of fats .
The results of recent investigations on excretine show that this substance exists on an average in the proportion of 0 ?
460 grm. for one evacuation when the excretine is impure , and of 0'184 grn. when it is pure .
From the careful examination of the faeces of a child one year old , I have ascertained that they invariably contained no excretine , but cholesterine ; the proportion of the latter , purified by repeated crystallizations , being equal to 0'036 grm. in one evacuation , which number is , however , a very low estimate .
Nothing in the food could account for this singular result .
It is therefore most probable that excretine is only present in the evacuations of the full-grown or adult individual .
I have been most ably aided in these investigations by my assistant , Mr. Frederick Du-pre , Ph. D.

