452 Mr. A. J. Walton .
Growth of Adult Mammalian Jasmin ( yellow).\#151 ; Gave anthocyanin only , more readily by means of zinc and 2N HC1 than by electrolysis .
Primrose ( yellow).\#151 ; Easily produced anthocyanin by either method , even in fairly warm HC1 with zinc only anthocyanin was produced .
The glucoside produced in this case seemed to be more stable to hydrolysis than in the majority of cases .
Lemon Peel.\#151 ; Extract in HC1 , in presence of the peel , reduced with zinc gave only anthocyanin .
Variations in the Growth of Adult Mammalian Tissue in Autogenous and Homogenous Plasma* By Albert J. Walton , M.S. , F.R.C.S. , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Prof. W. Bulloch , F.R.S. Received February 18 , \#151 ; Read March 26 , 1914 .
) ( From the Bacteriological Laboratory of the London Hospital .
) [ Plates 19 and 20 .
] In 1910 Carrel commenced his researches on the growth of tissues outside the body .
In 1907 Harrison had succeeded in growing the embryonic tissues of the frog , using coagulable lymph as a medium .
In 1910 Harrison and Burrows improved this method and successfully cultivated the tissues of mammalian embryos .
Carrel has so modified the technique that the method is now applicable to the study of the growth of all mammalian tissues .
He used as a medium the plasma of the animal either in its natural state or modified by the addition of various substances .
Since then , he and his collaborators have published a large number of papers , and by their work it has been fully established that tissues of animals , whether embryonic or adult , grow well vitro ; that by changing the medium and so removing the catabolic substances life can be greatly prolonged\#151 ; tissues have been kept alive and growing for periods considerably longer than a year ; and that the growth of the tissues can be greatly modified by the addition of various substances to , or otherwise altering the composition of , the plasmatic medium .
* Throughout this paper the term " autogenous " is used to indicate plasma obtained from the same animal as the tissue , " homogenous " to indicate that obtained from another animal of the same species .
Tissue in Autogenous and Homogenous Plasma .
453 In previous communications I have described fully the characters of the growth of adult mammalian tissue in primary and in sub-cultures .
Having determined the nature of this growth , it became possible for me to investigate the variation , if any , of the growth in autogenous and homogenous plasma .
The results of this investigation are detailed in this paper .
The tissues of adult rabbits were used and the technique of Carrel was carefully adhered to .
Four hundred and thirty-three cultures were made , the testicle , thyroid , and kidney being the tissues mainly used .
A few experiments were made with tissues of the spleen but owing to the amount of emigration of cells , apart from true growth , which occurs with this tissue it was found difficult to make accurate comparative experiments .
These experiments were therefore discontinued .
The details of the experiments on the testicular tissue and the results will be fully described .
The other tissues will be considered more briefly as the experiments on them were carried out on the same lines .
Testicle .
One hundred and twenty-two cultures were made with testicular tissue .
It was found that the plasma of the rabbit kept in ice would not continue fluid for longer than about an hour .
After this time it coagulated and became useless .
To overcome this difficulty the plasma was placed in a sterile tube which was corked and sealed with paraffin , and the tube was immediately placed in a mixture of salt and ice contained in a thermos flask .
By changing the mixture of salt and ice every two or three days the plasma could be kept frozen hard for an indefinite time .
When required for use it was removed from the mixture and at room temperature soon became fluid .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; Plasma was removed from Rabbit A six days previous to the cultural experiment and kept frozen .
At the time of the cultural experiment blood was collected from the carotid artery of Rabbit B and the plasma separated .
Cultures of testicle of Rabbit B were made in the usual way in both plasmata .
Twelve cultures were made in the homogenous plasma and twelve in the autogenous .
Of those in the homogenous , good growth occurred in all , whilst of those in the autogenous plasma only eight grew and growth was less extensive in these .
Experiment 2.\#151 ; Cultures of testicle were made in homogenous plasma which had been kept frozen for three days and in fresh autogenous plasma .
In both the same testicular tissue was planted and the cultures were made at the same time and under identical conditions .
The cultures in homogenous plasma again gave 100 per cent , of positive results whilst those in autogenous 454 Mr. A. J. Walton .
Growth of Adult Mammalian plasma gave only 75 per cent , positive .
The growth was again more extensive in the homogenous plasma .
Although the above experiments seemed to show that growth was better in homogenous than in autogenous plasma , it was possible that in both cases the autogenous plasma happened to be what one may describe as a bad variety .
To solve this question a third experiment was performed three days later than the second experiment .
The same two plasmata which were used in the second experiment had been preserved frozen and were used again .
They were now both homogenous to the culture tissue and were respectively six and three days old .
Experiment 3.\#151 ; The two frozen plasmata described above were used , one of which was six days and the other three days old .
Cultures of testicle were made in these and in fresh autogenous plasma under similar conditions .
The results were somewhat similar to those of the last two experiments .
Growth was much more extensive in the homogenous than in the autogenous plasma , thus at the end of three days there was but slight growth of the tissue in the autogenous plasma and marked growth in the three-day-old homogenous plasma , 100 per cent , of the pieces growing .
In the case of the six-day-old homogenous plasma it was seen that the growth was more extensive than in the autogenous plasma but less than in the three-day-old homogenous plasma , only 70 per cent , of the pieces growing .
Sub-cultures were made from each set and it was again seen that after a period of three days growth was much more extensive in the homogenous than in the autogenous plasma .
In the homogenous plasma mitotic figures were very abundant and very well marked .
This experiment showed that growth was not better owing to the accidental choice of good homogenous plasmata , for the plasma which in Experiment 2 was autogenous and gave but poor growth when used in Experiment 3 , where it was homogenous , gave a good growth in 100 per cent , of the trials .
Another very interesting fact became apparent .
The homogenous plasma used in Experiment 2 when three days old was successful in 100 per cent , of the trials , but when used in Experiment 3 , that is when six days old , gave less growth , and even this appeared in only 70 per cent , of the tissues .
These results are shown tabulated on p. 455 .
The facts suggested that the variations in growth might be dependent upon the length of time that the plasma had been kept frozen , and further experiments were therefore carried out to elucidate this point .
No more sub-cultures were made , however , for it was evident that if the same plasma were used it would not be of the same age and therefore further variants would be introduced .
Tissue in Autogenous and Homogenous Plasma .
455 Animal A. Animal B. Plasma 1 Homog .
, 3 days old .
Good , 100 per cent. Autog .
, fresh .
Slight , 75 per cent. .
Homog .
, 6 days old .
Medium , 70 per cent. Homog .
, 3 days old .
Good , 100 per cent. Autog .
, fresh .
Fair , 60 per cent. Plasma 2 Plasma 3 Experiment 4.\#151 ; Plasmata were removed from two other animals and kept frozen , one eleven and the other eight days before the cultural experiment .
Just before this experiment was commenced blood was removed from the lateral ear vein of another animal and the plasma separated .
Cultures were then made under identical conditions in the four plasmata , viz. : homogenous eleven days old , homogenous eight days old , homogenous fresh , and autogenous fresh .
In the first two groups every piece of tissue died and there was no evidence of growth .
The tissues in fresh plasma grew in the usual way and to an equal extent .
The growth in the autogenous plasma was perhaps a little more extensive than that in the homogenous plasma ( Plate 20 , figs. 5 and 6 ) , These experiments showed that testicle grew better in homogenous plasma that had been kept frozen for three days , but not at all in plasma that had been frozen for more than six to eight days .
The question as to whether growth was better in autogenous or homogenous plasma was still undecided .
The following experiment was therefore devised to settle this point .
Experiment 5.\#151 ; Two rabbits were taken .
Blood was removed by puncture from the lateral ear vein of each , ten and three days before the cultural experiment , the plasma being separated and frozen .
At the time of the experiment blood was removed from the carotid artery of each and the testicle taken out .
Thus there were obtained from each animal three plasmata , one which had been frozen for ten days , one for three days , and one fresh , that is six in all .
The testicle of each animal was cultivated in all the plasmata , making twelve separate groups .
The cultures were fixed at the end of 48 hours and stained so that the early growth-characters might be seen , these being considered more capable of comparison than the later stages when the growth was well advanced .
In the case of the testicle taken from animal A there was no trace of growth in the ten-day-old plasma , whether taken from animal A or animal B. With the three-day-old plasma that from animal A , autogenous , showed well marked growth , but that from animal B , homogenous , showed very slight growth and marked vacuolation of the plasma .
With the fresh plasma there was a fair amount of growth in both series , but whereas VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; B. 2 M 456 Mr. A. J. Walton .
Growth of Adult Mammalian that in the autogenous plasma ( fig. 4 ) was considerably less than that in the three-day-old plasma , that in the homogenous was greater than that in the three-day-old homogenous plasma and rather less than that in the fresh autogenous .
In the case of the testicle taken from animal B , there was again no trace of growth in the plasma from either animal which had been frozen for ten days ( fig. 3 ) , but in the tliree-day-old plasma there was marked growth in the plasma from animal A , which in this case was homogenous ( fig. 2 ) , and little or no growth in the plasma taken from animal B , which in this case was autogenous .
With the fresh plasma there was growth in both series , but that in plasma A , homogenous , was more marked ( fig. 1 ) than that in plasma B but was much less than that in the three-day-old homogenous plasma .
These results are shown in the following table:\#151 ; Animal A. Animal B. Plasma A. Plasma B. 1 Plasma A. Plasma B. Autogenous .
Homogenous .
Homogenous .
Autogenous .
1 10 days 0 0 0 0 | 3 days , ,. .
, Very good Slight Very good Slight j Fresh Good Fair Good Fair The above experiments showed that , as regards the testicle , growth was not dependent upon any variation in the nature of the cells , for growth was equally good in the series whichever testicle was taken , but it varied directly with the plasmatic medium which was used .
The variations in the plasma were not specific to either autogenous or homogenous tissues , for in the experiments given above tissues from both animals grew in the one plasma whether it was autogenous or homogenous , whereas in the other plasma they grew badly in either case .
Some plasmata give good growth and others but little , but at present there is not sufficient evidence to show upon what these differences depend .
The fact that growth was always better in plasma that had been frozen for a certain time , whereas , if kept frozen for a longer period , growth entirely ceased , seemed to show that each plasma contains two substances , one of which inhibits growth and the other which stimulates it .
By exposure to freezing for two or three days we may suppose the inhibitory substance is destroyed so that growth is increased .
After a longer period , about eight days , the stimulating substance is also destroyed and hence there is no growth .
Under normal conditions the stimulating substance is in excess Tissue in Autogenous and Homogenous Plasma .
457 of the inhibitory substance , therefore a certain amount of growth takes place in fresh plasma .
In plasmata which are not " good " only a small amount of growth takes place when the plasma has been frozen for three days .
This is not so easy to understand ; it may be that the stimulating substance is present in a less marked degree , and is therefore all destroyed at an earlier date , so that after the plasma has been frozen for three days there will be little or none present , hence growth will be slight or absent .
It was noticed , however , in the cases above where growth was slight that coagulation of the plasma had been incomplete ; in some cases , indeed , the plasma had remained quite liquid , so that there was risk of the tissue washing off the slide .
It is possible therefore that failure to grow under such circumstances was due to mechanical factors , the plasma failing to form a scaffolding for the growing cells .
It is of interest to note that the plasma which failed to coagulate was not serum , for there was no clot present when the frozen material was thawed .
Thyroid .
Of this tissue 167 cultures were made , the experiments being carried out on similar lines to those described for the testicle , but a larger number of cultures were made , so that the plasmata were compared at shorter intervals of time .
Experiment 6.\#151 ; Homogenous plasma was removed one day previous to the cultural experiment and frozen .
Autogenous plasma was removed from the animal at the time of the experiment and cultures of thyroid tissue made in each plasma under identical conditions .
Growth was more marked in the homogenous plasma and a greater number of cultures were positive in this .
Experiment 7.\#151 ; Thyroid tissue was cultivated in eight days ' old homogenous plasma and in fresh autogenous plasma .
There was no growth in the homogenous plasma , 'whereas in the fresh autogenous plasma 42 per cent , of the cultures grew and the amount of growth was well marked .
Thus , as in the case of the testicle , growth is better in plasma that has been preserved for one day , but entirely ceases in plasma which has been frozen for eight days .
In the next series the same plasmata were used for several experiments , as in the case of the testicle , so that any given plasma wdiich was autogenous in one experiment became homogenous in the next , and had been kept frozen for periods of time which increased for each successive , experiment .
Experiment 8.\#151 ; Thyroid tissue was cultivated in fresh autogenous plasma and in the plasma used in Experiment 7 , which was now five days old .
2 m 2 458 Mr. A. J. Walton .
Growth of Adult Mammalian The homogenous plasma gave 100 per cent , positive results and growth was very well marked in it .
Only 13 per cent , grew in the autogenous plasma and growth in it was slight .
Experiment 9.\#151 ; Thyroid tissue was cultivated\#151 ; ( 1 ) In plasma taken from animal 7 , now nine days old .
( 2 ) In the plasma taken from animal 8 , now four days old .
( 3 ) In fresh autogenous plasma .
In the nine-day plasma 60 per cent , of the cultures grew , the growth being fairly extensive .
In the four-day plasma 67 per cent , grew , and the growth was very well marked .
In the fresh autogenous plasma 44 per cent , of the tissues grew , and growth in these was less extensive than in the other groups .
Experiment 10.\#151 ; Thyroid tissue was cultivated\#151 ; ( 1 ) In homogenous plasma taken from animal 7 , now twelve days old .
( 2 ) In that taken from animal 8 , now seven days old .
( 3 ) In that taken from animal 9 , now three days old .
( 4 ) In fresh autogenous plasma .
In the plasmata from animals 7 and 8 there was no growth at all .
In the plasma from animal 9 100 per cent , of the pieces grew and the growth of these was very well marked .
In the fresh autogenous plasma 44 per cent. grew .
The growth of these was much less marked than that of those grown in the three-day homogenous plasma .
These results are shown in the following table:\#151 ; Plasma .
Animal 7 .
Animal 8 .
Animal 9 .
Animal 10 .
7 Fresh 5 days , 9 days .
12 days , 42 per cent. 100 per cent. 60 per cent. 0 8 \#151 ; Fresh , 4 days , 7 days , 13 per cent. 67 per cent. 0 9 \#151 ; \#151 ; Fresh , 3 days , 44 per cent. 100 per cent. 10 \#151 ; \#151 ; \#151 ; Fresh , 44 per cent. It was clear that the increase in the amount of growth which took place when the plasma had been kept frozen for about three days was very marked , thus while autogenous plasma when fresh gave a growth in from 13 per cent , to 40 per cent , of cases , it gave a growth in 100 per cent , of the trials when it had been kept for three days and was homogenous .
The fact that some plasmata are good and others bad is also clearly shown by the table .
For instance , the plasma of animal 8 is definitely not so good as that of animals Tissue in Autogenous and Homogenous Plasma .
459 7 and 9 .
The results obtained in Experiment 9 are specially of interest , for with plasma nine days old growth was obtained .
This plasma coagulated well but only gave 60 per cent , of positive results as compared with 100 per cent , obtained with the same plasma when it was only five days old .
This would seem to show that the diminution of growth which occurred after the plasma had been kept for a certain period was not entirely due to the lack of power of coagulation , a lack which was considered the possible cause of failure in the case of the testicular tissue .
Further experiments were carried out to show whether the increase of growth described above was due to the homogenity of the plasma .
Experiment 11.\#151 ; Thyroid tissue was cultivated in fresh autogenous and homogenous plasmata .
Cultures were also made in plasmata eleven and eight days old respectively .
As usual no growth took place in the last two groups .
In the fresh autogenous plasma growth occurred in 60 per cent , of the cultures , whilst in the fresh homogenous plasma it was present in 40 per cent , and was rather less marked .
The above results were confirmed by cross experiments carried out in the same way as Experiment 5 was conducted in the case of the testicular tissue .
Experiment 12.\#151 ; Blood was removed from the lateral ear veins of two rabbits , eight and three days before the experiment .
Fresh blood was removed at the time of the experiment and the thyroids were taken out from the two animals at the same time .
Cultures were made from each thyroid in all six plasmata .
In the eight-day plasmata all four groups showed no growth .
The thyroid tissue of animal A showed positive results in 100 per cent , of the trials in the three-day-old autogenous plasma , but no growth at all in the plasma of animal B. With the fresh plasma again there was slight growth in 55 per cent , of the cultures in the autogenous plasma of animal A , and no growth in that of animal B. In the case of the thyroid of animal B there was good growth in 100 per cent , of the trials in the three-day-old plasma of animal A , which in this case was homogenous , and no growth in that of animal B. With the fresh plasma there was fair growth in the plasma of animal A in 64 per cent , of the cultures and none in the plasma of animal B. These results are shown in the table on p. 460 .
Thus this experiment confirmed what was found in the case of the testicle , namely , that growth was not dependent upon any quality of the cells or upon the fact that the plasma was homogenous or autogenous , but one plasma was bad so that neither tissue would grow in it , whilst the other was good and gave good results .
460 Growth of Tissue in Autogenous and Homogenous Plasma .
Animal A. Animal B. Plasma A. Autogenous .
Plasma B. Homogenous .
Plasma A. Autogenous .
Plasma B. Homogenous .
8 days 0 0 0 0 3 days 100 per cent. 0 100 per cent. 0 Fresh 50 " 0 64 " 0 Kidney .
Of this tissue 96 cultures were made .
The experiments were all carried out by the method of cross growth , which made all the requisite points clear .
One such experiment may be quoted as an example .
Experiment 13.\#151 ; Plasmata were collected in a manner similar to that used in Experiments 5 and 12 .
The plasmata were respectively eight days old , three days old , and fresh .
In the eight-day-old plasma , as usual , no growth took place .
In the case of the three-day-old plasmata the kidney of animal A grew well in the plasma of animal B but not at all in the plasma of animal A. The kidney of animal B also grew well in the plasma of animal B and not at all in the plasma of animal A. With the fresh plasmata growth occurred in the case of both tissues in both plasmata , that in plasma B being rather the better .
Growth was in all cases less than that in the three-day-old plasma of animal B. The results of the kidney cultures supported therefore those obtained with testicle and thyroid .
Summary .
1 .
The extent of growth of tissues vitro is not dependent upon any quality of the cells themselves .
2 .
The extent of growth varies directly with the character of the plasma .
3 .
The variation in the plasma does not depend upon whether it is autogenous or homogenous but upon some cause at present unknown .
4 .
Fresh plasmata appear to contain substances , inhibitory and stimulating , to the growth of cells , the latter being in excess .
5 .
The inhibitory substance is lessened , or the stimulating substance is increased , by freezing the plasma for one to three days .
6 .
The stimulating substance is destroyed after the plasma has been frozen for six to eight days .
Walton .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. B , vol. St , pi .
19 .
All x 33 .
Walton* Roy .
Soc. Proc. B , vol. 87 , pi .
The Decomposition of Formates by B. coli communis .
461 DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
1 .
Three days ' growth in fresh homogenous plasma .
2 .
Three days ' growth in homogenous plasma three days old .
3 .
Three days ' growth in homogenous plasma ten days old .
4 .
Three days ' growth in fresh autogenous plasma .
5 .
Five days ' growth in fresh autogenous plasma .
6 .
Five days ' growth in fresh homogenous plasma .
The Decomposition of Formates by Bacillus coli communis .
By Egerton Charles Grey , 1851 Exhibition Scholar .
( Communicated by Dr. A. Harden , F.R.S. Received February 19 , \#151 ; Read March 26 , 1914 .
) ( From the Biochemical Department of the Lister Institute .
) Many observations have been made on the variability of gas production by intestinal bacteria under natural conditions ( see Penfold ( 1911 ) and Arkwright ( 1913 ) , where literature is quoted ) .
Penfold has found that by artificial selection of Bacillus coli communis in the presence of sodium chloroacetate , strains may be isolated which produce no gas from glucose and gas in lessened amount from mannitol , although in both cases acid is produced as with the normal organism .
The writer has also shown that by artificial selection of B. coli communis by the chloroacetate method of Penfold , various stages between the original gas-producing and the selected non-gas-producing strain may be obtained , and the changes have been found to be associated in part with the disappearance of the enzyme which decomposes formic acid ( 1914 ) .
It was found that two kinds of artificially selected strains could be produced from the original strain of B. coli communis ; one unable to decompose formic acid , and the other still able to bring about this decomposition provided glucose were present .
The artificially selected organism , which could not decompose formates even in the presence of glucose , was likewise unable to produce gas from mannitol , whereas the organism which still retained the power of decomposing formates was also able to produce gas from mannitol , although it produced this gas in an amount approximately equal to one-half of that produced under the same conditions by the original B. coli communis from which it was derived .
It seemed , therefore , likely that by a closer study of

