]\gt ; Coloured lnterferencc Bcvnds the of npered Steel .
By A. lALLOCK , F.R.S. ( Received Apri125 , 1918 .
) But people can have failed to llotice the equally spaced dark bands which are seen when parallel rows of are viewed from a passing train : and which appear to advance at the speed as the ) The explanation of such bands is obvious , depending , of course , whether the uprights of the nearest row are in line with those of the more , or whether both are visible at the same ) the first case less ob truction is offered to the of from the than in the latter , so that the htest part of the band occurs when , in the line of , the of the two rows coincide , filled the darkest , when both series are in at the same time .
In 1874 I examined , with some care , the production of this class of interference bands , and there is a good deal of Italian work on the same subject .
If the interfering lines are equally spaced , and parallel to the intersection of the planes in which they lie , the bands are not uniformly spaced , but come closer together as the line of departs from the normal to the mean plane .
If the lines are not parallel to intersection of the planes , the bands become hyperbolic ; and if the surfaces containing the lines are curved , the bands may assume very complex forms .
Of this the -like figures seen when looking hrough two folds of muslin or gauze an exantple .
If , keeping the eye stationary , the distance between the two folds is altered and the form of the bands is expressed in terms of the distance between them , it will be found the curves lie on a family of quasi-cylindrical surfaces , one within the other , of which surfaces the hands themselves may be considered as plane sections .
Hence there is a real analogy between the interference patterns seen through the gauze curtains and the grain patterns of tangential sections of wood , where the annual rings also form quasi-cylindrical surfaces .
Instead of using two sheets of gauze , the single sheet may be placed on looking glass , and the interference observed between the sheet and its reflected image .
While making some experiments of this sort in 1874 , I ticed that in some cases the bands so produced were rather strongly coloured .
I have mentioned this fact to many people , but it does not seem to be generally Mr. A. Mallock .
Colonred Interference known , and the explanation is very simple , it may be In let AB be the section of a grating of pitch , composed of opaque lines of width 7 ) , with transparent interval of width ; and let these lines cover the surface of a glass plate of thickness , the back of which is silvered .
Let be the mean refractive index of the ylass , and the difference between the refractive indices for red and violet .
Let a of fall on the grating at an angle of incidence , and consider the course of the ray which passes the of one of the lines .
The distance between the red and violet rays at the point where , after reflection , they meet the upper surface is , or , in terms of Spectra of this length ] be ormed by the rays from every point in the width cf , and thus each aperture of the grating will produce a beam of width at the place of emergence , part of which will be stopped by one of the opaque lines .
Hence the emergent light will be coloured .
The purity of the colour in beam , before , depends 011 the ratio , but in any case the show pure spectrum colours .
the formation of the coloured interference bands now under consideration , should be large compared to the wave-length ( in order that cliffraction effects may be snJall ) , and should be large compored to , to secure adequate separation of the colours .
If grating is inated by diffused and is ob , erved f ) some uint E , it will be seen that ination of glass and is rather the Colours of Tempered Steel .
a crude fornl of Maxwell 's colour ) in which the slit used , and the part of the spectrum which is suppressed is to difference between the pitch of the the width of the slit .
To estimate the colours which will be seen for different values of the ethod used by Maxwell and by Rayleigh in his paper on the colours of these is most convenient .
The coloured strip , by dispersion which contains all is to be replaced by three strips of violet , green , and red , each of width , so osed that are Ient with the proper position which those } lonrs would ' in spectrum by the glass } ) light passi n the edge of The fity of ench colour not preve ted from eye by l ) is to be found , and the centre of ravity of proportional to these quantities at the angles of the chromatic triangle then indicates the which will be observed at for a value of ? .
The nary colours used by Maxwell and ( 1 ) A violet froltl ) etween the and reen c to the line , an A red neal the line .
mixture of in } ) ) , and ) gives hite light .
In fig. a of and ) ' are in plan .
Let ( be the distance of the left-hand of the violet hand edge of one of the opaque lines of the grating ; and the corresponding distances for the green red .
Lord , ' Collected PapcrH , ' vol. 2 , p. , et Mr. A. Mallock .
Interference In from one interference band to the next , will vary from to it is easy , from , to write down the quantity of each colour which reaches the eye for any iven value of I.\mdash ; The oldinates of the represent the quantities of violet , which reach distance between lefthand of the violet ( see fig. 2 ) and ) -hand edge of the opaque part ( b ) of .
The values of , and , are given for each line and column of the the angle of view ( in fig. 1 ) changes from the edge of one interference ] ) anrl to the corresponding point of adjacent , increases or to or II gives the locus of the centres of gravity of these quantities in the , while varies through one complete cycle .
The CUl.ves are and there , as be expected from the discontinuity of the collditions w the mixture of the colours , but they all agree in one respect , namely that no shows itself in any part of the band .
In green appear in the resultant unless the ) ersion , or thickness of the plate , is sufficient to the primary colour patches more or less completely from one another , i$ with observation .
Bands and the Colour of Tempe ) Steel .
DIAGRAM II.\mdash ; The curves within the omatic , are the loci of the centres of gravity of weights proportional to the quantities of the primary colours reaching the eye , corresponding to the examples in Diagram II , whilst varies from to Values of are written against the moqt features of the curveq .
Note Coloured Interference The actual colours in the cases figured range from good blues through an( orange and a straw-yellow ) nearly white .
And in some instances the sequence is so close to the colours of tempered steel that I was led to examine the latter with some care .
I had always , and I believe it has generally been assumed , that the colours of tempering were instances of the ordinary interference colours of thin plates ; but the following simple experiment seems to prove conclusively that this cannot be the true explanation .
the were due to a film of appropriate thickness , a reduction of that thickness ought to change the colour ; the blue should change to green , orange to yellow and so on .
I found , however , that if the tempered steel surface was gently polished , until the clean surface of the metal was reach there was no change of colour during the process , the blue remaining blue , and the yellow yellow , until the whole of the colour was removed .
The intensity of the colour decreased as the film became thinner , but it , character remained the same .
The colours of tempering are best seen by polarised light , and their intensity is greatest at the of 1naximum polarisation .
When so observed the blue changes , as the angle of incidence ncreases , through reddishpurple to a dark orange and finally to a straw yellow .
The yellow and orange , on the other hand , change but little , becoming rather more intense the of maximum polarisation , but when the incidence is large , the whole surface which has been coloured by the tempering assumes a nearly uniform yellow .
Thus the blue moves towards the red end of the spectrum , while the does the opposite , and although similar occur in the case of the order of Newton 's rings , the thickness of plate required is far than that which produced the colours of tempering .
It would seem probable , therefore , that the latter colours are due to some form of selective opacity lepending on damped molecular periods comparable with the wave period , * rather than on a structure comparable with the wave-length .
This must be true of all pignlent colours , but something more is required to explain the dependence of the colours of ' on the angle of incidence , a feature which is strongly marked also in the case of many of the aniline colours when examined as dry films by leflec.ted light .

