OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
VOL. LXXXIII.\#151 ; B. 1 ) V ( CONTENTS .
Page Harry Marshall Ward ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
i Harry Govier Seeley ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xv Robert Koch ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xviii HARRY MARSHALL WARD , 1854\#151 ; 1906 .
Harry Marshall Ward , eldest son of Francis Marshall Ward , was born in Hereford , March 21 , 1854 , but he came of a Lincolnshire stock , settled for some time in Nottingham .
From unavoidable causes he left school at 14 , but afterwards continued his education by attending evening classes organised under the Science and Art Department .
To that Department , as will be seen , he owed indirectly the opportunity of a useful and brilliant career .
His means were small , and his earliest aim was to qualify as a science teacher .
He was admitted to a course of instruction for teachers in training given by Prof. Huxley in 1874-5 .
Although he must have derived from it a sound insight into the principles of zoology , the subject does not seem to have had any permanent attraction for him .
In the summer of 1875 Ward came under my hands in a course of instruction in botany which I conducted with Prof. Vines in the Science Schools at South Kensington , and from this time onwards we were in intimate relations to the close of his life .
I must be permitted to depart from the customary form of these notices and relate the story in my own words .
It contains much of more than personal interest which could not easily be dealt with in any other way .
It was soon apparent that we had got hold of a man of exceptional ability .
It must be confessed that the atmosphere was stimulating , and the conditions under which the teaching was carried on necessitated its being given at high pressure .
I remember that on one occasion Ward fainted at his work , from no other cause , I think , than over-excitement .
In the autumn of the same year he went for one session to Owens College , Manchester , with the object of continuing his general education .
I learn that he carried off the prizes in every subject that he took up .
Impressed as I had been with Ward 's capacity , I saw at the moment no outlet for it beyond that of a teacher under the Science and Art Department , for which he had become officially qualified .
However , opportunity came , in the least expected way .
The methods of teaching laid down by Huxley at the Science Schools were novel at the time , inasmuch as they were more demonstrational than didactic .
They attracted some outside attention , and the class-rooms were a good deal frequented by visitors , who were interested in what was being done .
Amongst these was a young man of private fortune , L. A. Lucas , a former pupil of Huxley 's .
He seems to have discovered Ward and to have watched his work .
Personally , I had no hand in what followed .
In the succeeding year I was glad to avail myself of the assistance of Ward as demonstrator in a subsequent course at South Kensington , which I undertook with Prof. Vines .
Some time afterwards he called on me at Kew with b 2 ii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
a strange story and to ask my advice .
He had received an anonymous letter , telling him that if he would enter at the University of Cambridge , he would find a sufficient sum of money to his credit at Mortlock 's Bank to pay his expenses .
The acceptance of such a proposal involved a certain amount of risk , but I advised him to take it .
By Vines ' advice he accordingly became a candidate for and secured an open scholarship at Christ 's College , where Vines himself was then a Bellow , and went into residence in October , 1876 .
On November 20 following , Lucas , who had planned an expedition to Africa , died on board the s.s. " Massowah " between Suakim and Jeddah at the early age of 25 .
He had broken down in health , and General Gordon would not allow him to proceed beyond Khartoum .
He proved to have been Ward 's benefactor , and had made provision in his will for the continuance of help , which was as honourable to the recipient as to the giver .
The action that Lucas took was no doubt a concession to Ward 's strong independence .
That he took a deep interest in him is shown by a letter which he wrote to him from Cairo , November 28 , 1875 , when Ward was at Owens College : " Slow and sure wins the day .
Work ten or even eleven hours a day .
You can do that , if you keep regular hours , for an indefinite time .
Always take at least seven hours ' sleep , for the more the work the more rest required .
" Ward took full advantage of his opportunities at Cambridge , and attended the teaching of Sir Michael Foster in physiology and of Prof. F. M. Balfour in comparative anatomy .
The sound and fundamental conceptions which he acquired from the former manifestly influenced his work throughout life .
He took a first class in botany in the Natural Science Tripos in 1879 .
His first published paper was the result of work in the same year in the Jodrell Laboratory at Kew .
In this , which was published in the ' Proceedings of the Linnean Society/ he seriously criticised and corrected that of Vesque on the embryo-sac of Phanerogams .
As was customary with our young botanists , Ward went to Germany for a short time , for purposes of study and to strengthen his knowledge of the language .
He worked at Wurzburg with Sachs , whose lectures on the physiology of plants he afterwards translated in 1887 .
There he continued his study of the embryo-sac in Orchidese , as Sachs subsequently testified , .
" zu meiner vollsten Zufriedenheit .
" Before the end of the year Ward was appointed on the recommendation of Kew to proceed to Ceylon for two years as Government Cryptogamist to investigate the leaf disease in coffee .
The history of this malady is almost unique in vegetable pathology .
A native fungus which had eluded scientific , observation , and must therefore have maintained an inconspicuous and limited existence on some native host-plant , found a wider opportunity on the Arabian coffee plant and fell upon it as a devastating scourge .
It was first detected in 1869 on a single estate ; in 1873 there was probably none in the island entirely free from it .
Mr. ( since Sir Daniel ) Morris had shown that the plants could be cleansed by dusting them with a mixture of sulphur and lime .
But the remedy proved of no avail as the plants speedily became Harry Marshall Ward .
m re-infected .
Morris had been transferred to another appointment in the West Indies and Ward 's duty was to take up the investigation .
This he accomplished exhaustively .
He showed that the fungus ( .vastatrix ) was one of the Uredinese and that infection was produced by the wind-borne uredospores .
Had the planters , as in Southern India , left forest belts between their plantations , the spores might have been filtered out and the disease controlled .
As it was it spread like an unchecked conflagration .
Ward also discovered the teleutospores ; nothing has been added to our knowledge of its life-history beyond what he obtained .
The result of his investigations was given in three official reports and in papers contributed in 1882 to the Linnean Society and the ' Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science .
' It was no blame to him that his work led to no practical result .
The mischief admitted of no remedy .
The coffee-planting industry of Ceylon was destroyed and the Oriental Bank succumbed in the general ruin .
Leaf disease has now extended to every coffee-growing country in the Old World from Natal to Fiji .
In a tropical country leaves supply a substratum to a little flora of their own , consisting of organisms partly algal , partly fungal , in their affinity .
Ward , who had already developed his characteristic habit of never neglecting any point incidental to a research , carefully studied them , in order both to ascertain how far their presence affected the health of the leaf itself and to work out their life-history .
The outcome wTas three important papers .
One on Meliola , an obscure genus of tropical epiphyllous fungi , belonging to the Pyrenomycetes , was published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' in 1883 .
Bornet 's classical memoir published in 1851 had been the authority on the subject .
Ward was able to fill up " large gaps in the knowledge of important details .
" Another paper published in the ' Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science ' in 1882 on an Asterina illuminates an allied organism .
But the crown of all Ward 's Ceylon work was the splendid memoir on a Tropical Epiphyllous Lichen which was published by the Linnean Society in 1883 .
In this he , I think , cleared up much that was obscure in the My coidea jparasitica described by D. D. Cunningham .
Having myself communicated the paper , I shall always remember the pleasure with which I undertook in Ward 's absence to give an account of it .
He solved the problem with convincing completeness ; he extended Schwendener 's lichen theory to a group of obscure epiphyllous organisms of which he afforded , for the first time , a rational explanation .
The success with which this was accomplished placed him at once in the first rank of mycological investigators .
De Bary was the leading authority on Uredinese ; and in 1882 Ward paid a short visit to him at Strasburg to confer with him on his coffee disease work , the accuracy of which de Bary entirely confirmed .
There he made the acquaintance of Elfving and completed his Meliola paper .
The outlook for Ward was now precarious .
Fortunately , I found myself sitting next to Sir Henry Roscoe at a Royal Society dinner , and I suggested that Ward , as an old student of Owens College , would be a fitting recipient of a Bishop Berkeley Fellowship for original research .
Principal Greenwood iv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
recorded the fact that " the very important results already achieved by Mr. Ward in Ceylon , in the domain of the higher botany , led the Senate and the Council to make this appointment .
" In 1883 , he was appointed Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator in Botany , and , on the same testimony , " abundantly justified his election .
" It was a peculiar pleasure to him to relieve the veteran Prof. Williamson by taking entire charge of Vegetable Physiology and Histology .
His position was , in the same year , made secure by his election to a Fellowship at Christ 's College , and he married the eldest daughter of the late Francis Kingdon , of Exeter , who was a connection of Clifford the mathematician .
The passion for research now completely possessed Ward and never left him for the rest of his life .
He published papers which added much to our knowledge of the Saprolegniese a group of fungi of aquatic habit , partly saprophytic and partly parasitic .
It is interesting to note that he was particularly attracted by the mode in which the hyphse attack the tissues on which they prey .
This was a matter on which he subsequently threw an entirely new light .
He made the interesting discovery of an aquatic Myxomycete , such a mode of existence being hitherto unknown in the group , and worked out its life history .
But his mind had now become definitely fixed on the problems presented by plant diseases , and they remained the principal occupation of his life .
In their widest sense these resolve themselves into a consideration of the mode in which one organism obtains its nutriment at the expense of another .
This ranges from a complete destruction of the host by the parasite to a harmless and even advantageous symbiosis .
He was thus naturally led to an exhaustive study of the literature of the Schizomycetes , and contributed an article on the group in 1886 to the * Encyclopaedia Britannica , ' which , for the time at any rate , gives the best account of it , certainly in English , and probably in any other language .
When he supplemented this in 1902 by the article on Bacteriology , it was largely to give an account of his own important discoveries .
In the earlier one , he had pointed out the difficulties of a natural classification of Schizomycetes due to their pleomorphism , which Lankester had demonstrated in 1873 .
He returned to the subject in an article in the ' Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science ' in 1892 .
It may be noted that , in his British Association address at Toronto , he took occasion to put in their proper relation the work of Cohn and of his pupil Koch .
In 1885 , the Begius Professorship of Botany at Glasgow was vacant by the transference of Prof. Balfour to Oxford .
Ward was a candidate with the warm support of his fellow-botanists .
It wras thought that his Colonial services would weigh with the Government ; but other influences were at work in favour of another candidate , whom , however , the University refused to accept .
A deadlock ensued , which was only solved by the Government finally refusing to appoint either candidate .
This was a great disappointment to Ward , which was in some degree mitigated by his appointment Harry Marshall Ward .
v to the new Chair of Botany in the Forestry Branch of the Boyal Indian Engineering College , Coopers Hill .
The utilitarian atmosphere in which he found himself was not very congenial to him .
But he had at any rate at last some sort of adequate position and a laboratory to work in , and here he remained\#151 ; not , 1 think , unhappily\#151 ; for ten years .
He was , as he had been at Manchester , a successful teacher , and had the gift of interesting his pupils , whom he used to bring weekly to Kew during the summer months to visit the Arboretum .
In point of research , this was the period of much of his most brilliant work .
The study of Uredineae occupied Ward at intervals during his life .
The reproductive organs are pleomorphic , and it is no easy task to ascertain with certainty those that belong to the same life-history .
In a paper on Entyloma Ranunculi , published in the 'Phil .
Trans. ' in 1887 , Ward for the first time traced the germination of the conidia of an Entyloma , and confirmed Winter 's suggestion that they were not an independent organism , but actually belonged to it .
Incidentally he discussed the conditions which are favourable to the invasion of a host by a parasitic fungus .
This raised the question of immunity , to which at intervals he repeatedly returned .
About the same time he published in the ' Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science ' the results of an investigation undertaken for the Science and Art Department on the mode of infection of the potato plant by infestans , which produces the potato disease .
It was not easy to add anything to the classical work of de Bary , but it was ascertained that " the development of the zoospores is delayed or even arrested by direct daylight , " and Ward 's attention was attracted to the problem , which he afterwards solved , of how the hyphae erode the cell-wall .
The solution was given in 1888 in a paper in the ' Annals of Botany , ' " On a Lily Disease , " which has now become classical .
He discusses the fungus which produces it , and shows that the tips of the hyphae secrete a cellulosedissolving ferment which enables them to pierce the cell-walls of the host .
This ferment has since been described as cytase .
He shows that its production would determine the passage from a merely saprophytic to a parasitic habit , and makes the suggestion that an organism might be educated to pass from one to the other .
An admirable research ( 1887 ) was on the formation of the yellow dye obtained from " Persian berries " ( Bhamnus A dyer had found that uninjured berries afforded a poorer colouring liquor than crushed .
Gellatly had found , in 1851 , that they contained a glucoside , xanthorhamnin , which sulphuric acid/ broke up into rhamnetin and grape-sugar .
The problem was to localise the ferment which did the work .
Ward obtained the unexpected result that it was confined to the raphe of the seed .
As early as 1883 Ward had attacked a problem which he pursued at intervals for some years , and which was fraught with consequences wholly unforeseen at the time .
It had long been known that leguminous plants almost invariably carried tubercular swellings on their roots .
The opinion vi Obituary Notices of deceased .
had gradually gained ground that they were due to the action of a parasite .
Bacteria-like corpuscles had been found in the cells of the tubercle , and it was assumed that they had played some part in exciting the growth of the latter .
" No one had as yet succeeded in infecting the roots and in producing the tubercles artificially .
" Ward described , in a paper in the ' Phil. Trans. ' in 1887 , how he had accomplished this .
He showed , in fact , that a definite organism invades the roots from the soil , and finds its access by the root-hairs .
Laws and Gilbert had long ago proved that the higher plants are incapable of assimilating free nitrogen .
Hellriegel and Wilfarth had , however , shown in 1886 that leguminous plants carry away more nitrogen from the soil than could be accounted for .
This Ward confirmed by his own pot-experiments and satisfied himself that the excess could only be derived from the free nitrogen of the air .
Hellriegel further concluded that the tubercles played an essential part in the process .
Ward had no doubt that the bacteroids were the channel of supply .
But he failed to get any proof that they could assimilate free nitrogen outside the plant .
He suggested that their symbiosis might be an essential condition , and was obliged finally to leave it an open question whether the cells of the tubercles or the bacteroids were the active agents in nitrogen assimilation .
He had already stated in 1887 that it is very probable that the bacteroids " may be of extreme importance in agriculture .
" But he was never satisfied with anything short of the strictest proof .
In 1890 Ward was invited to deliver the Croonian Lecture .
He chose for his subject the relation between host and parasite in plant disease .
He defined disease in its most generalised form as " the outcome of a want of balance in the struggle for existence .
" But the particular problem to which he addressed himself was the way in which the balance is turned when one organism is invaded by another .
This is the most common type of disease in plants and a not infrequent one in animals .
The first result reached was identical with that of Pasteur for the latter ; the normal organism is intrinsically resistant to disease .
It is an immediate inference that natural selection would make it so .
Ward then discusses very clearly the physiological conditions of susceptibility , which he shows to be a deviation from the normal .
He had already indicated this in the case of Entyloma .
The epidemic phase is reached when the environment is unfavourable to the host but not so or even favourable to the parasite .
He then attacks the more obscure case where there is no obvious susceptibility .
This , he finds , resolves itself into a mere case of the struggle for existence : " a struggle between the hypha of the fungus and the cells of the host .
" It is more subtle in its operation but of the same order of ruthlessness as the ravages of a carnivore .
Ward 's account of the struggle is almost dramatic .
The cellulose " outworks " are first broken down , as he had previously shown , by a secreted ferment .
The " real tug of war " comes when the hypha is face to face with the ectoplasm .
Its resistance is at once overcome by flooding it with a poison , probably oxalic acid .
Harry Marshall Ward .
Ill War with attack and defence is a product of evolution .
How did it come about in this particular case ?
Ward convincingly traces out the whole process .
The normal plant obtains its food from inorganic material .
But when opportunity offers it easily lapses into a condition in which it takes the material for metabolism ready made from the decay of others and becomes saprophytic .
Ward shows that it is only a step to the attack on the living , and for the saprophyte to become a parasite , and he further shows that it can be readily educated to be so .
He does not hesitate to suggest that the function of ; conidia in the complicated cycle of fungal reproduction is to form the cellulose-dissolving ferment .
But now and again the host does not succumb to its invader .
A truce is sometimes called in the struggle , and host and parasite are content to live together in a mutually advantageous symbiosis or commensalism .
Three years earlier , in 1887 , Ward 's attention had been drawn by a happy accident to the physiological aspect of symbiosis , and it never ceased to occupy his mind .
It was well known that ginger beer was made in villages in stone bottles .
The fermentation was effected by the so-called " ginger beer plant " which was passed on from family to family , but nothing was known as to how or where it originated .
It seemed to have some analogy with the Kephir of the Caucasus .
A specimen was sent to me from the Eastern Counties , and it stood for some time in the sun in my study .
I noticed the vigorous growth accompanied by a copious evolution of gas .
Ward coming to see me one day , I handed it over to him as a problem worth his attention .
At the same time Prof. Bailey Balfour had examined it and concluded that it was a mixture of a yeast and a bacterium .
Its study involved Ward in a very laborious research which occupied him for some years , and of which the results were published in the ' Phil. Trans. ' in 1892 .
It proved to be a mixture of very various organisms , every one of which Ward exhaustively studied .
This required not less than 2000 separate cultures .
The essential components proved to be , as Balfour had suggested , a yeast derived from the sugar and a bacterium from the ginger .
Both were anaerobic ; the yeast fermented cane-sugar with the copious production of carbon dioxide but little alcohol ; the bacterium also produced carbon dioxide , even in a vacuum tube .
The action of the two components studied separately proved to be not the same as when they worked in concert .
This was conspicuously the case with the evolution of carbon dioxide , which proceeded with such violence as to make the research attended with considerable danger .
It is known that the action of ferments may be checked by the inhibition of the products formed .
Ward pointed out that while the use of these might be advantageous to the bacterium , their consequent removal might be equally so to the yeast .
This established the important principle of symbiotic fermentation and gave it a rational explanation .
On the morphological side Ward showed that the ginger-beer plant is comparable to a gelatinous lichen , and , having resolved it into its constituents , successfully reconstituted it .
\#153 ; Obituary Notices of deceased .
The new conception threw a flood of light on many obscure points in fermentation generally , and it is not surprising that Ward 's work at once attracted the attention of the brewing industry .
It led him to an even more fertile suggestion , that of metabiosis .
It was known that the finest wine is sometimes produced from mouldy grapes .
He regarded this as a case of one organism preparing the way for another .
He returned to the subject in a lecture given at the British Association at Dover in 1899 and pointed out that in the Japanese manufacture of Sake , an Aspergillus prepares the way for the yeast .
He also showed that metabiosis played an important part in nitrification .
Fungi cannot draw their nutriment from solid materials without first profoundly modifying them .
They accomplish a large part of their digestion , so to speak , externally to themselves .
This constantly occupied " Ward 's mind .
He insisted on the part played in the process by ferments .
The liyphse of Stereum ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1898 ) delignify the walls of the wood elements of tEscuIus layer by layer , and then consume the swollen cellulose .
He failed , however , to isolate the ferment which does the work .
Nor was he more fortunate with the little known fungus Onygena , which grows on horn , hoofs and hair , setting free ammonia as a final product ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1899 ) .
That there must be some hydrolysis of keratin can hardly be doubted , for Ward established the remarkable fact that the walls of the hyphse contain no cellulose , but are composed of chitin .
Onygena has , in fact , abandoned a plant for an animal nutrition .
This would place the germination of the species at a great disadvantage .
But he found that this difficulty was overcome by the spores which had been licked from the skin germinating in the gastric juice of the animal 's stomach , and , when voided in the excreta , infecting a new host by accidental contact .
In the case of both Stereum and Onygena he accomplished for the first time the difficult task of tracing their life history from spore to fructification .
Ward had prepared himself for the study of bacteria , and in the nineties he undertook , with Prof. Percy Frankland , a prolonged research on behalf of the Poyal Society as to the conditions of their occurrence in potable water .
The reports of the results fill a thick volume , and the amount of work involved is almost incredible .
The bacteriology was entirely due to Ward .
That bacteria are not an inevitable element in potable water is proved by their absence from that of deep springs .
They are arrested by filtration through the earth 's crust .
In any river system they are comparatively fewer towards the watershed , and more frequent towards the mouth .
The obvious conclusion is that they are derived from the drainage of the land .
As it is known that the bacteria of cholera and typhoid are water-borne , it becomes a problem of vital importance to ascertain if river water is a possible means of distributing these diseases .
Ward set to work to ascertain : ( i ) What was the actual bacterial flora of Thames water ; ( ii ) if this included any pathogenic organisms ; ( iii ) if not , what became of them ?
Harry Marshall Ward .
IX The labour required by the first two branches of the enquiry was enormous ; he identified and cultivated some eighty species ; the resulting answer to the second was happily in the negative .
As to the third , two facts were known .
First , that river water , if stored , largely cleared itself of bacteria by mere subsidence ; secondly , that Downs and Blunt , in a classical paper communicated to the Koyal Society in 1877 , had shown that exposure to direct sunlight is fatal to bacteria in a fluid medium .
Ward showed that subsidence could not be entirely relied on , as the sediment might easily become the source of re-infection .
The effect of sunlight required more critical examination .
It was known that the spores of anthrax were liable to be washed into rivers .
Ward determined to study this as the most extreme type of pathogenic infection .
As it is undoubtedly the most deadly micro-organism known , 'and Ward proposed to deal with it on a large scale , it implied no small degree of courage .
He found that the spores of anthrax were effectually killed by a few hours ' exposure to even the reflected light of a low winter sun .
It wTas clear that this was due to the direct action of the light and not to any heating effect , apart from the fact that they will tolerate boiling for a few minutes .
It was further shown that there was no foundation for the theory of Boux and Duclaux that death was due to poisoning by products of oxidation of the food-medium .
Proof of this , indeed , was hardly required , for Pasteur had shown that the bacteria floating in the atmosphere are mostly dead .
Were it not so , no surgical operation would be possible .
To the bactericidal effect of sunlight is equally to be attributed the absence of bacteria from the High Alps .
The next point was to ascertain to what rays the effect was due .
The spores of anthrax are so minute that , when mixed in large numbers with gelatine , they do not affect its transparency .
A plate of glass coated with the mixture is at first clear , but ceases to be so if kept in the dark , owing to the germination of the spores .
*Ward found , in fact , that a photograph could be printed with it , the darkening being the reverse of that of a silver plate .
After experiments with coloured screens he completely solved the problem in 1893 , with the aid of apparatus supplied by Sir Oliver Lodge and some advice from Sir Gabriel Stokes , by photographing the spectrum on such a plate* .
It was at once seen that the destructive effect was due to rays of high refrangibility , and , what was extremely important , extended to , and found its maximum in , the ultra-violet .
The same results were obtained with the typhoid bacillus .
He made the suggestion that the arc light might be used for the disinfection of hospitals and railway carriages .
Comparatively little was known of the life history of any Schizomycete .
Ward therefore made a detailed and exhaustive study of that of Bacillus ramosus , the Wurzel bacillus of German authors , which is common in Thames water , and bears a superficial resemblance to the anthrax bacillus , but is innocuous .
It proved convenient for study , as it ran through its x Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
entire life history in from thirty to sixty hours at ordinary temperature .
It forms long filaments , the growth of which Ward was able to measure under the microscope with great precision .
On plotting out his measurements he obtained a regular curve , from which he found that , under constant conditions , the filament doubled itself in equal times .
This he called " the law of doubling .
" It is the same as the so-called " law of compound interest , " and leads to the expression of the growing quantity as an exponential function of the time , so that the time is proportional to the logarithm of that quantity .
This relation has , of course , long been familiar in chemical reactions , but , as far as I know , Ward was the first to detect it in any vital process in a plant .
This , which was in 1895 , has , I think , been overlooked .
Stefanowska has since , in 1904 , obtained a logarithmic curve for the early period of the growth of maize , which doubles its weight every ten days , and the subject has since been pursued by Chodat and others .
In speculating on the cause of the destructive action of light on bacteria , Ward adopted the view of his friend Elfving , that it inhibited metabolic processes necessary to nutrition .
He suggests that the " constructed metabolites " at the moment of assimilation are in a highly unstable condition , and liable to destruction by oxidation promoted by light .
He points to the fact that plant structures are frequently provided with colour screens , which would cut off the blue-violet rays and check their action in promoting the rapid oxidation of reserve materials , and he quotes the suggestion of Elfving that chlorophyll itself may serve as such a screen against " destructive metabolic action in synthesis .
" Ward seems to have attributed little importance to the fact that substantially the same view had long before been put forward by Pringsheim , though received with little favour .
His own view that when red and orange predominate in the screens their effect is protective , has since afforded a probable explanation of the coloration of young foliage , especially in the tropics .
It can hardly be doubted that the upshot of Ward 's laborious investigations has had a powerful influence in deciding the policy of the future water supply of London .
If we hear nothing now of obtaining it from Wales , it is because we know that even polluted flood-water if exposed in large reservoirs will rid itself of its bacterial contamination , partly , as was known already , by subsidence , but most effectually , as shown by Ward , by the destruction of its most deleterious constituents by the direct action of sunlight .
In 1895 , Ward was called to the Chair of Botany at Cambridge .
He was supported by a distinguished body of fellow-workers , and developed a flourishing school , in which every branch of the science found its scope .
The University erected for it an institute which is probably the best equipped in the country , and in March , 1904 , I had the pleasure of seeing Ward receive the King and Queen at its inauguration .
During the later years of Ward 's life he returned to the study of the Harry Marshall Ward .
xi Uredinese .
The scourge of wheat perhaps from the dawn of agriculture has been " Rust , " " Ut mala culmos esset rubigo ... .
intereunt segetes " ; and the loss inflicted by it throughout the world is probably not calculable .
But the history of the Ceylon coffee disease is only too patent an instance of the injury a uredine can effect .
Eriksson , the most recent authority on the subject , had found himself quite unable to account for sudden outbursts of rust which it did not seem possible to attribute to the result of infection .
In 1897 he launched his celebrated theory of the Mycoplasm .
He supposed that a cereal subject to rust was permanently diseased and always had been ; that the protoplasm of the U redo-parasite and of the cereal , though discrete , were intermingled and were continuously propagated together ; but that while that of the latter was continuously active , that of the former might be latent till called into activity by conditions which favoured it .
Ward discussed the theory in his British Association address at Toronto , and was evidently a good deal impressed with it , but nothing short of actual demonstration ever convinced him ; and when he proceeded to investigate the actual histological facts on which the theory rested he promptly exploded it .
It is interesting to note that Ward , as I know from correspondence at the time , had himself been embarrassed in investigating the Ceylon coffee disease by the same kind of appearance which had misled Eriksson .
It is due to an optical fallacy .
When the hypha of a uredine attacks a cell it is unable to perforate it with its whole diameter .
It effects it , however , with a reduced and slender filament ; this expands again after perforation into a rounded body , the haustorium .
In a tangential section the perforating filament cannot be distinguished , and the haustorium looks like an independent body immersed in the cell-protoplasm and with no external connection .
It requires a fortunate normal section to reveal what has really taken place .
Ward was accordingly able , in a paper in the ' Phil. Trans. ' in 1903 , to conclusively dispose of the mycoplasm .
This cleared the ground of an untenable hypothesis .
The complicated nature of the problem which still presented itself for investigation can only be briefly indicated .
Sir Joseph Banks , whose scientific instinct was sound but curiously inarticulate , had pointed out that the spores entered the stomata , and warned farmers against using rusted litter .
Henslow , one of Ward 's predecessors in the Cambridge chair , had been confirmed by Tulasne in showing that the uredo- and puccinia-spores ( of the barberry ) belonged to the same fungus .
De Bary traced the germination of the spores and the mode in which the hyphae invaded the host ; the fundamental fact , which he observed but did not explain , was that the germinal filament , after growing for a time superficially , bent down to enter the tissues of its host .
Pfeffer in 1883 discovered chemotaxis , the directive action of chemical substances on the movement of mobile organisms .
De Bary had previously hinted that the hypha might be attracted by some chemical ingredient of the host plant .
Myoshi , a pupil of Pfeffer 's , showed finally in xii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
1894 that if a plant were injected by a chemotropic substance a fungus-hypha not ordinarily parasitic might be made to behave as such and attack it .
In such circumstances it might seem that the host was not merely incapable of resisting invasion by the parasite but actually invited its attack .
Nature is , however , not easily baffled in the struggle for existence .
Attack provokes new methods of defence .
Ward soon found himself face to face with " problems of great complexity , " and these occupied the closing years of his life .
It had been ascertained in fact that the rust fungus is not , as was at first supposed , a single organism , but comprises , according to Eriksson , thirteen distinct species , each with physiological varieties , and that those which are destructive to some grasses and cereals , are incapable of attacking others .
This necessitated a scrutiny of the nature of grass-immunity .
In a paper communicated to the Cambridge Philosophical Society in 1902 , Ward announced a conclusion which was as important as it was unexpected .
He had more and more made use of the graphical method for presenting to the eye at a glance the result of a mass of separate observations .
In this case he uses it with striking effect .
He shows conclusively , as far as rust in brome-grasses is concerned , that : " The capacity for infection , or for resistance to infection , is independent of the anatomical structure of the leaf , and must depend on some other internal factor or factors in the plant .
" Finally , he is led to the conclusion that " it is in the domain of the invisible biological properties of the living cell that we must expect the phenomena to reside .
" He pointed out the probability that light would be thrown on this from the action of chemotaxis , on the one hand , and from that of toxins and antitoxins in animal organisms on the other .
This is a most fertile conception , which would , however , have required a good deal of verification , and this , unhappily , he did not live to attempt .
But with characteristic ingenuity he pointed out the analogy between the infective capacity of uredospores and the prepotency of pollen , which had previously engaged the attention of Darwin .
In a paper published in the following year in the Berlin ' Annals Mycologici , ' he announced a no less significant result .
With his usual thoroughness in research he had cultivated side by side at Cambridge more than two hundred species and varieties of Bromus , and had watched the degree to which they were infected by rust under identical conditions .
He found that though in the brome-grasses the rust peculiar to them is specifically identical its forms are highly specialised .
The form which attacks the species of one group will not attack those of another .
Host and parasite are mutually " attuned .
" He termed this " adaptive parasitism .
" This raised the problem , which had first occurred to him in Ceylon , of how a parasite adapted to species of " one circle of alliance " can pass to those of another .
Occasionally it happens that a uredo-form will infect a species where it ordinarily fails .
In such a case " its uredospore progeny will thenceforth readily infect that species .
" Harry Marshall Ward .
xm Ward regarded this as a case of education .
Working on this principle , he succeeded by growing the parasite successively on a series of allied species which were imperfectly resistant , to ultimately educate it to attack a species hitherto immune .
He called these " species .
" He established , in fact , a complete parallelism between the behaviour of rust-fungi and that of pathogenic organisms in animals .
In the midst of this far-reaching research his health began to fail .
In 1904 he had been appointed by the Council to represent the Royal Society at the International Congress of Botany held at Vienna in June of the following year .
This he attended , though more seriously ill than he was aware of .
On his way back he spent three weeks for treatment at Carlsbad , but receiving no benefit , he went , on the advice of Dr. Krause , to Dr. von JSToorden 's Klinik at Sachsenhausen ( Frankfort ) .
Nothing could be done for him , and he was advised to return home by easy stages .
After a period of progressive and extreme weakness , borne with unflinching courage , the end came somewhat suddenly at Torquay on August 26 , 1906 .
He was buried at Cambridge in St. Giles 's Cemetery on September 3 .
From 1880 , the year following his degree , Ward never ceased for a quarter of a century to pour out a continuous stream of original work .
This alone would be a remarkable performance , had he done nothing else .
But he was constantly engaged in teaching work , and he acted as examiner in the Universities of London and Edinburgh .
With no less conscientiousness he complied with the demands which the scientific world makes on its members ; he served on the Councils of the Royal ( 1895 ) and Linnean ( 1887 ) Societies ; he was President of the Botanical Section of the British Association at Toronto in 1897 , and of the Cambridge Philosophical Society in 1904 .
Beyond all this he found time to give addresses with unfailing freshness of insight ; a lecture at the Royal Institution on April 27 , 1894 , on the " Action of Light on Bacteria and Fungi " was a notable performance ; he wrote numerous articles of a more popular kind , and he produced a number of excellent manuals for students on subjects connected with forests , agricultural and pathological botany .
Activity so strenuous almost exceeds the limits of human possibility .
Under the influence of Sachs , Ward might have become a distinguished morphologist .
But his work in Ceylon led him into a field of research from which he never deviated .
A survey of his performance as a whole , such as I have attempted , has a scientific interest of it own .
His research was not haphazard .
A continuous and developing thread of thought runs through it all .
The fundamental problem was the transference of the nutrition of one organism to the service of another .
Of this , in Ceylon , Ward found himself confronted with two extreme types , and of both he made an exhaustive study .
In Hemileia it was ruthless parasitism ; in Strigula advantageous commensalism .
Our Foreign Fellow Bornet put Schwendener 's theory on a firm foundation when he effected the synthesis of a lichen ; Ward , in another group , did the same thing for the ginger-beer plant .
In such cases the xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
partnership is beneficial .
The problem is to trace the process by which one partner gets the upper hand and becomes merely predatory .
Ward inherited a strong taste for music , though I believe he never cultivated it .
A musical simile may not inappropriately be applied to his wort .
In its whole it presents itself to me as a symphony in which the education of protoplasm is a recurring leit-motiv .
A few words must be said as to his personal characteristics .
He had all the qualifications for the kind of research to which he devoted himself .
He was singularly dexterous and skilful in manipulation .
He was a refined and accomplished draughtsman , and was therefore able to do himself justice by illustration .
He was rigorous in demanding exhaustive proof .
This almost deteriorated into a defect .
He would pursue every side issue which presented itself in a research , and was quite content if it led to nothing .
He would say in such a case : " I will not leave a stone unturned .
" He was apt , too , I think , to attack a problem in too generalised a form .
In his nitrogen work it always seemed to me that he wasted energy on remote possibilities , when a clean-cut line of attack would have served him better .
But his mind worked in that way , and he could not help himself .
It was , I think , one of the most fertile in suggestion that I ever came across .
In later years , in conversation especially , thought seemed to come quicker than words to express it .
In this respect he reminded one of Lord Kelvin .
In such a predicament he would simply remain silent , and slowly move his head .
This habit , I think , explains the reputation of being " mysterious " which he seems to have acquired latterly at Cambridge .
He was not without the honour at home which he deserved , apart from the affection of his friends , and had he lived would doubtless have received it from abroad .
He was elected F.R.S. in 1888 , and received the Royal Medal in 1893 .
He was elected an Honorary Fellow of Christ 's College in 1897 , and received an Honorary D.Sc .
from the Victoria University in 1902 .
Botanical science could ill spare his loss at the early age of 52 .
But it may be grateful for 25 years of illuminating achievement .
It might have been hoped that another quarter of a century would be allotted to one so gifted .
But if the " inexorabile fatum " decreed otherwise , he is at least to be numbered amongst those of whom it may be said " Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas .
" W. T. T.-D XV HARRY GOYIER SEELEY , 1839\#151 ; 1909 .
Harry Govier Seeley was the son of Richard Hovell Seeley by his second wife Mary Govier , and was educated at a private school in London .
He was born in London on February 18 , 1839 , and began early to take an interest in Natural History .
While still a boy he attended the lectures of Owen , Edward Forbes , Brayley , and others .
He also took advantage of the opportunities for study afforded by the British Museum .
At the age of 20 he attracted the notice of the Rev. Adam Sedgwick , Woodwardian Professor of Geology at Cambridge , who appointed him to be his assistant .
Until 1871 , Seeley acted as his deputy in lecturing and teaching when the infirmities of age necessitated his rest from duties , and during the whole period Seeley was actively engaged in both curatorial work and researches in the Woodwardian Museum .
In 1872 he returned to London , and was for some time engaged in lecturing and literary work .
In 1876 he became Professor of Geography in King 's College and Professor of Geology and Geography in Queen 's College .
In 1881 he was appointed Dean of Queen 's College .
In 1891 he also became Lecturer on Geology and Mineralogy in the Royal Indian Engineering College , Coopers Hill , and held this office until the closing of the College in 1906 .
In 1896 he entered on the duties of the combined Professorships of Geology , Mineralogy , and Geography in King 's College , where he designed and equipped new laboratories , and worked until his last illness at the close of 1908 .
While occupied with these more serious professional duties , Prof. Seeley also devoted much time to the popularisation of geological science .
During the decade 1880-90 he lectured under the auspices of the London Society for the Extension of University Teaching , and for a period of twenty-five years he conducted the London Geological Field Class , which made a series of weekly excursions each summer to study field geology under his guidance .
He was also a well-known and much-appreciated lecturer in connection with the Gilchrist Educational Trust .
From his earliest youth Prof. Seeley wTas imbued with the spirit of original research , and his appointment as assistant to the Woodwardian Professor at Cambridge gave him ample opportunities for following his inclinations .
While accompanying Prof. Sedgwick in the field , and while preparing the lectures which he was so often called upon to deliver , he made many new observations on the rocks and fossils of Cambridgeshire and the neighbouring counties , which he published in a series of papers between 1859 and 1868 .
His researches on the Red Chalk and the Ampthill Clay were especially important .
He soon became most interested , however , in the fragmentary reptilian bones from the Cambridge Greensand , which were then being discovered in large numbers in the phosphate diggings , and had never been closely studied .
He arranged the collection in the Woodwardian Museum , and gradually extended his work to other groups of Vertebrate VOL. lxxxiii.\#151 ; B. c xvi Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased .
fossils until he became an accomplished palteontologist , with an intimate knowledge of the Vertebrate skeleton .
In 1869 the Cambridge Press published his 'Index to the Fossil Remains of Aves , Ornithosauria , and Reptilia from the Secondary System of Strata arranged in the Woodwardian Museum/ and in the following year the same Press issued his well-known volume on The Ornithosauria : An Elementary Study of the Bones of Pterodactyles , made from Fossil Remains found in the Cambridge Upper Greensand/ The latter was in many respects a pioneer work , describing unpromising materials but with important results , and if it now appears to have emphasised too strongly the relationships of Pterodactyles to Birds , it was at least stimulating and led to useful discussion .
During subsequent years Prof. Seeley often recurred to the same subject , collecting facts as hew discoveries accumulated , until in 1901 he published his small general work , entitled ' Dragons of the Air : An Account of Extinct Flying Reptiles/ in which he summarised his latest views , with restored sketches of some of* the animals described .
Among other features , he was the first to recognise the curiously bird-like shape of the brain in Pterodactyles , and to point out that , at least one of the Cretaceous genera was toothless .
Prof. Seeley 's studies of Pterodactyles led him to recognise in 1870 some very large vertebras , of light construction , from the Wealden formation , which he described as representing " Ornithopsis , a gigantic animal of the Pterodactyle kind .
" One of these bones had previously been determined by Mantell and Owen as the tympanic ( or quadrate ) of Iguanodon .
Through the subsequent discoveries of the Rev. W. D. Fox in the Wealden of the Isle of Wight , it became clear that such vertebras belonged to a large Dinosaur ; and the group it represents is now well known through the finding of nearly complete skeletons of Diplodocus and Brontosaurus in the Upper Jurassic formations of ISTorth America .
Prof. Seeley was always interested in the Dinosauria , and his determination of their fragmentary remains from the Cambridge Greensand and from the Gosau formation of Austria may be specially mentioned .
In 1879 he read to the Scientific Club in Vienna a paper on Dinosaurs in general , which was afterwards published in the ' Popular Science Review/ and in 1887 he discussed before the British Association the classification of the Dinosauria , proposing that they should be divided into the two orders of Saurischia and Ornithischia .
Prof. Seeley also made an exhaustive study of the marine reptiles , and was particularly interested in comparing those of the Cretaceous and Upper Jurassic with the better-preserved specimens from the Lias .
He distinguished and described the Ichthyosaurian genus Ophthalmosaurus and *the Plesiosaurian genera Mursenosaurus and Cryptocleidus from the Oxford Clay , and an examination of the Leeds collection enabled him to discover the characters and variations of the shoulder-girdle in these reptiles .
He described in detail the structure of a well-preserved Ichthyosaurian skull from the Upper Lias , and made some of the earliest observations on the supposed viviparous reproduction of Ichthyosauria .
He also described a Harry Gorier Seeley .
xvh small reptile , Neusticosaurus , from the Trias of Germany , which appeared to be intermediate between primitive land-reptiles and the Plesiosauria .
For many years Prof. Seeley had followed closely the researches of Sir Eichard Owen on the Karoo reptiles from South Africa , which exhibited so remarkable an approach to the Mammalia , and , when the veteran palaeontologist ceased work , he decided to continue it .
In 1889 , with the aid of the Eoyal Society 's Government Grant Committee , he examined the collections of Anomodont reptiles in St. Petersburg and Moscow , and subsequently visited Cape Colony to make further collections .
He traversed the Karoo with Mr. Thomas Bain , and succeeded in discovering the nearly complete skeletons of Pariasaurus and Cynognathus , and numerous other specimens , which he afterwards described and presented to the British Museum ( Natural History ) .
He also obtained important specimens for study from Mr. Alfred Brown , Dr. Atherstone , and Dr. Kannemeyer , who continued to correspond and provide material for his researches .
Most of the results of this work were published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' between the years 1889 and 1895 , and in the journals of the Geological and Zoological Societies during later years .
The Pariasaurians were shown to make as close an approach to the Labyrintho-donts as the Theriodonts to the Mammalia ; numerous new types were made known , and their osteology was described in detail , while important general results followed , with suggestions for a more exact classification of the primitive groups represented .
These exhaustive researches led Prof. Seeley to recognise an Anomodont reptile from the Bunter Sandstone near Basle , Switzerland , which he described under the name of Aristodcsmus ruetimeyeri .
After his early experiences in interpreting the reptilian bones from the Cambridge Greensand , rare fragmentary fossils always had a special fascination for Prof. Seeley , and a large proportion of his smaller papers deal with such specimens .
Among these may be specially mentioned his descriptions of the bones of birds from the Cambridge Greensand ( 1876 ) and of two Mammalian bones from the Stonesfield Slate ( 1879 ) .
He pointed out the resemblances of the Cretaceous bird-bones to those of the existing Colymbus , and he regarded the Stonesfield limb-bones as belonging to a generalised Marsupial .
Prof. Seeley was a Pellow of the Linnean , Geological , Zoological , and Eoyal Geographical Societies , and was elected a Pellow of the Eoyal Society in 1879 .
He was awarded the Lyell Medal of the Geological Society in 1885 .
He was elected a Poreign Member of the Philadelphia Academy in 1878 , of the Imperial Geological Institute of Vienna in ] 880 , of the Imperial Society of Naturalists of Moscow in 1889 , of the Senckenberg Natural History Society of Prankfurt in 1895 , a Corresponding Member of the Imperial Academy of Sciences , St. Petersburg , in 1902 , and a Pellow of King 's College , London , in 1905 .
He was also a member of the Athenseum Club .
A. S. W. XV111 ROBERT KOCH , 1843\#151 ; 1910 .
Peof .
Koch was one of the great discoverers of medicine .
His researches have exercised a profound influence not only upon the development of medical science , but also upon the welfare of mankind .
Born in 184o at Klausthal , and educated at the Gymnasium , he studied medicine in Gottingen from 1862 to 1866 .
After a short period as assistant at the hospital in Hamburg , he commenced practice in Langenhagen , Hanover .
In 1867 he removed to Eackwitz , in Posen , where , in addition to carrying on a country practice , he found time to study for , and to take a degree in physical science .
In 1872 he became district surgeon in Wollstein .
It was whilst at Wollstein that Koch 's attention was first seriously turned to the interpretation of infectious diseases .
The study of the work of Pasteur and his pupils on fermentation and putrefaction , and of Lister on the antiseptic treatment of wounds , led him to the conclusion that the etiology of infection was not to be found in miasmata from the soil , as commonly entertained at this time , but much more probably , in the entrance into the tissues of microbes , and their multiplication therein .
At the time Koch commenced to investigate infectious disease , bacteriology had become differentiated as a department of scientific enquiry , but the methods proper to the new science were not developed , and , although a number of cardinal facts had been brought to light , knowledge on the subject was chaotic , and advance temporarily checked .
Diseases of man and animals presented unlimited problems , but the means to attack them were lacking .
The means which led to the next important advances were supplied by Robert Koch , who possessed that rare combination of intellectual qualities which enabled him , not only to see what was the next question to ask of Nature in order to advance one step further , but also to devise experimental methods which ensured an answer to this question .
In this last faculty Koch was pre-eminent , and the methods of this youngest of the sciences are to a large extent the methods of Robert Koch .
Two of his earliest papers\#151 ; that on the etiology of anthrax , founded on the life-history of Bacillus anthracispublished in 1876 , and that on experiments on the etiology of wound infections , published in 1878 , written when district surgeon at Wollstein\#151 ; have become classics .
This work was carried out in addition to the duties of a practitioner of medicine , and without the assistance of any laboratory equipment beyond a good microscope .
Pollender and Davaine had seen the anthrax bacillus twenty years earlier in the blood of infected animals , and in 1863 the latter had shown that the blood containing the bacilli was capable of infecting animals , if inoculated into them .
That these bacilli1 were in reality the cause of the disease was , however , controverted .
Koch reasoned that as the disease remained attached .to certain pastures , if the anthrax bacilli were the living virus , they ought to Robert Koch .
xix grow outside the body as well as inside .
He succeeded in cultivating many successive generations of them in broth , and also watched their growth upon a hot stage .
He discovered that they formed spores when grown outside the body or when blood containing them was allowed to dry ; determined the greatly increased resistance of the spores to physical and chemical agents ; and showed that as long , and only as long , as the broth or dried material contained bacilli or spores capable of propagating themselves , these remained infective for animals .
The importance of the anthrax work can hardly be over-estimated .
It afforded for the first time convincing proof of the causal relation of a particular bacillus to a particular disease .
Owing to the unmistakable character of the bacillus , and its presence in large numbers in the blood of infected animals , its study could be profitably undertaken with the means available .
Koch was unremitting in his efforts to improve his microscopical technique , and in the same year published a paper on the investigation , preservation , and photographing of bacteria , in which an account of the preparation and staining of dry films is given .
The method described is very much that still in daily use .
The paper is accompanied by photomicrographs of bacteria , the excellence of which is rarely equalled at the present day .
Koch pointed out that he had persevered in this work because he was obsessed with the idea that the hitherto conflicting results of investigations on the causation of infective diseases had their foundation in1 the incompleteness of the methods used .
Koch 's interest in traumatic infectious diseases seems .to have been stimulated by the disasters due to these .
causes amongst the wounded in the Franco-Prussian war .
The results of Lister 's antiseptic methods had demonstrated that means directed against the infection of wounds with microbes obviated these diseases .
Micrococci and bacteria had frequently been found in pus , diphtheritic ulceration , in the tissues at the edge of* advancing erysipelas , and in pysemic deposits .
Micro-organisms had also been discovered in the blood in relapsing fever and puerperal fever .
Further , Coze and Feltz and Davaine had inoculated rabbits with the blood of patients dead of puerperal fever , and had succeeded in carrying on the infection through successive generations of these animals .
Nevertheless , the evidence that a particular organism was the cause of a particular disease was far from conclusive .
Many observers concluded that bacteria were universally present in the normal body .
Others failed to find any organisms in obviously septic conditions .
There was no practicable means of separating one coccus from another coccus , and bacteria of identical appearance were found to be associated with a variety of diseases .
The parasitic nature of traumatic diseases was probable , but unproven .
Koch began his work on traumatic infective diseases with the conviction that the most fruitful line of investigation would be a comparative one , namely , to induce septic infections in animals and see whether they would XX Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
" breed true " upon successive reinoculations , controlling the experimental observations by careful microscopic examination throughout .
He used for the purpose of infecting his animals putrid serum or bouillon .
This , he found , contained a large variety of organisms of different sizes and shapes , which he was unable to separate from one another .
He hoped that , implanted into the body of an animal , a selection might occur , and only those pathogenic for the particular species survive .
His anticipations were justified , and the injection of small quantities of such materials was followed , in a number of instances , by the development of a fatal illness with the presence in the blood of one only of the many forms present in the original material .
He was able to carry on the disease from one animal to another , always with the same symptoms and the presence of the same organism .
Moreover , if the same material containing a variety of organisms were injected into animals of different species , one microbe flourished in the one species and another in the second , showing that a particular microbe could establish itself in one animal and not in a neighbouring species .
The animal body is , as Koch said , an excellent apparatus for pure cultivation , and he succeeded to some extent in doing what had been the stumbling block to all progress , namely , to isolate one organism from another .
The publication of these three papers raised the , hitherto , obscure physician of Wollstein to the first rank of scientific investigators , but they were merely the beginning of his scientific career .
Their importance and the genius of their author were recognised by -Struck , the enlightened Director of the German Health Office , who invited Koch to accept a position in that department .
The chemical and hygiene laboratories attached to the department had been extensively equipped , but bacteriology was naturally unprovided for .
A room was , however , found for him , and in these humble surroundings he settled down to pursue his inquiries .
He was soon joined by Loeffler and Gaffky , who became his first assistants .
The three worked together enthusiastically in the one room , fitting up the laboratory , inventing apparatus , and improving methods .
The great problem confronting them was to find a practicable means of obtaining a pure culture outside the body .
Koch accomplished this by the simple expedient of adding gelatine to the nutrient medium .
The gelatine-containing medium was inoculated whilst warm , with a minute amount of the material , poured in a thin layer upon a plate and allowed to set .
In this way bacterial colonies originating from individual microbes were obtained .
Portions from the colonies were subsequently sown into separate tubes of broth or other fluid suitable for their growth .
The discovery of this technique made advance possible .
Another line of investigation undertaken at this time , on account of its importance in the technique of bacteriology , was concerned with disinfection and sterilisation .
The experiments of Koch and his pupils , made upon pure cultures of pathogenic bacteria , is the foundation upon which all later work on this subject has been built .
It also led to the substitution of the more convenient steam sterilisation for dry heat .
Robert Koch .
xxi One cannot emphasise too strongly to what a large extent Koch provided the tools of inquiry at each stage in the development of bacteriology , but he did not rest there .
From 1880 onwards followed a period of extraordinary activity .
In a dozen years the etiological factor of eleven important human diseases\#151 ; tubercle , cholera , typhoid , diphtheria , erysipelas , tetanus , glanders , pneumonia , epidemic meningitis , influenza , and plague , as well as numerous animal diseases\#151 ; was discovered by Koch and his pupils .
After the completion of his work on anthrax , Koch 's individual efforts were directed , more particularly , to the discovery of the infective agent in tuberculosis , whilst diphtheria and typhoid were being investigated by his assistants , Loefher and Gaffky .
The work of Klencke and Villemin and the further experiments of Cohnheim and Salomonsen , had established that the disease tuberculosis was due to an infective agent which was capable of propagating itself in the animal body .
Miliary tubercles were examined microscopically for some signs of a microbe , but for long without success .
At last , by a modification in the method of staining , a fine bacillus was discovered , and its presence in the majority of preparations established .
Efforts to grow the organism in pure culture at first failed , but subsequently , by infinite patience , he succeeded in growing it upon coagulated serum .
Once isolated and grown upon a succession of media , the establishment , of the bacillus as the etiological factor presented no difficulty , and at the Physiological Society in Berlin on March 24 , 1882 , Koch presented the proof that he had discovered the cause of one of the most widespread and dreaded of human diseases .
From the discovery of the cause of a disease , its prevention or cure does not necessarily follow , but in the campaign against an enemy it is of first importance to be acquainted with his nature and peculiarities .
Koch interested himself , at once , in studying the life-history and methods of warfare of the tubercle bacillus .
These studies were , however , interrupted .
Cholera was in Egypt and threatened Europe , and the German Government organized a Commission , with Koch as leader , to proceed to Egypt to study the disease , and draw up recommendations for dealing with it , should it reach Germany .
Shortly after reaching Egypt the outbreak there ceased .
In the meantime , however , Koch had obtained important information leading him to suspect a particular comma-shaped bacillus as the specific cause of the disease .
The material for the furtherance of his inquiry having failed in Egypt , Koch proceeded to India , where cholera is endemic , and completed his investigations .
He satisfied himself that the comma bacillus was the constant companion of the cholera disease , that its abundance was commensurate with the severity of the attack , and that it penetrated beneath the epithelium in the affected part .
He never succeeded in obtaining it from the healthy or diseased intestine , other than in the case of cholera .
It was comparatively easy to obtain it in pure culture , and its characteristics were studied , but the completion of the evidence to convict this organism was lacking , as a true cholera process xxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
cannot be artificially produced in any of the laboratory animals .
Incidentally , whilst in Egypt , he discovered amoebse in dysentery , and the bacillus responsible for the widespread ophthalmia in that country .
As previously mentioned , at the time Koch was ordered to Egypt to investigate cholera , he was engaged in the attempt to discover some means to modify the infection by the tubercle bacillus in the animal body .
Proceeding on the assumption that the tubercle bacillus exercises its pathogenic effects by means of a chemical poison , Koch investigated the action of the dead bacilli and their products upon normal animals , and also the effect of a previous injection with dead bacilli , upon a subsequent inoculation of living ones .
This led to the important observation that in animals previously treated with dead bacilli , the later inoculation of living organisms occasioned an energetic local reaction , leading in some cases to their destruction .
From his experiments he was led to the conclusion that , not only could a guinea-pig be immunised against tubercle by repeated injections of the products of tubercle bacillus , but that the same tissue reaction could be stimulated , and the disease brought to a standstill , by this means .
Later ( 1890 ) , he published his well-known results upon tuberculin , by means of which tuberculosis could be not only diagnosed , but in the early stages might , he hoped , be cured .
The possible remedy was enthusiastically welcomed by the whole world .
Medical men thronged to Berlin from all parts to see the results of its application .
The treatment was applied to all sorts of cases in what we now know were colossal doses .
The results were disappointing , and in many cases disastrous .
The premature publication of his results with tuberculin was a misfortune , and the failure of the treatment obscured for the time being the great value of Koch 's work , and even exposed him to opprobrium .
Koch had , however , made a great discovery , but underestimated the potency of the agent he had brought to light .
Tuberculin is an invaluable diagnostic for early tuberculosis in man and animals , and is universally employed .
Since 1890 it has been consistently employed by a number of physicians all over the world for the treatment of tubercle with what appear to be beneficial results , and of recent years its employment has again been resuscitated by Wright .
It is now administered in much smaller doses , and with careful observance of the effect of each injection .
During the next eight years , 1891-1899 , Koch was occupied with investigations into a large number of diseases of men and animals .
The list includes leprosy , rinderpest , plague , surra , Texas fever , and malaria .
These investigations necessitated his spending much of his time abroad .
It would be difficult to adjudge just how much of the knowledge gained upon these diseases to attribute to Koch , as he was accompanied by one or more distinguished workers , as in the case of the German Plague Commission which visited India .
It is very clear , however , from the published reports and papers , that the insight and experience with which he directed the Robert Koch .
xxm inquiries materially enhanced our knowledge of the causation and means of spread of these diseases .
Koch 's work upon malaria needs special mention .
Whilst in tropical countries , his attention was naturally drawn to this disease .
Laveran 's discovery of the malarial parasite had been made , but the mechanism of the spread of the disease was unknown .
Manson 's discovery that filaria was inoculated by the mosquito , Theobald Smith 's proof that Texas fever was transmitted by ticks , and Bruce 's demonstration that the tsetse-fly disease was due to a protozoan parasite , and merely conveyed by the fly , suggested to Koch , as to others , that malaria might be transmitted by a biting insect .
He was , indeed , engaged upon experiments with mosquitos , and had nearly satisfied himself that malaria was thus transmitted , when Boss published his results .
Koch was , howTever , largely instrumental in showing that the three types of malaria were associated with three distinct parasites , and that none of these were infective for the lower animals , a result of great importance , from the point of view of malaria prophylaxis .
He also cleared up the difficulty as to the reservoir of the disease in a population , the adults of which could not be found to harbour the parasite , by showing that the young children , even to the extent of 90 to 100 per cent. , were infected .
In 1901 Koch reported to the British Congress on Tuberculosis the results of experiments , which he had carried on during the preceding two years in conjunction with Schutz , upon the pathogenicity of .the human tubercle bacillus for domestic animals .
Briefly stated , Koch 's main conclusion from their experiments was that human tuberculosis differs from bovine , and cannot be transmitted to cattle .
The far more important question : " Is man susceptible to bovine tuberculosis ?
" was then considered .
No direct experimental proof of this converse proposition is possible , but from the fact that men\#151 ; and particularly children\#151 ; consume large quantities of bovine tubercle bacilli in milk , and yet tuberculosis of the intestine is rare , Koch concluded that man is little , if at all , susceptible to the bovine variety of the bacillus .
He pointed out that the question whether man is susceptible to bovine tuberculosis at all , was not decided , but expressed the belief that infection of human beings is of so rare occurrence , that it is not necessary to take any measures against it .
It was the last conclusion that caused so much consternation , as most countries were embarked in considerable expenditure with a view to minimising the chances of infection by milk and meat .
Koch may have been unwise in stating his views , but he did so with the conviction that bovine tubercle is not an important source of infection , and with the earnest desire that we should not squander our energies in subordinate directions , but should concentrate them in efforts to diminish man-to-man infection through the respiratory tract .
The importance attached to a considered opinion of so distinguished an authority led to the appointment of numerous commissions of inquiry in Europe and America .
Of these the work of the English Boyal Commission has been the most extensive .
These investigations have shown that the xxiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
sharp distinction between the two varieties , though usually manifest , is not so absolute as Koch supposed , and that bacilli of the bovine type are not so uncommonly found in human infections as he wTas led to believe .
The frank expression of opinion by Koch on this subject has been the stimulus for an enormous amount of valuable work in connection with tuberculosis throughout the civilised world , but the relative importance of infection from one another , through sputum , and from bovines through dairy produce , is still an open question , and will not be settled for many years to come .
Before closing this sketch of his life-work , it remains to add a few ' words upon Koch as a teacher .
In 1885 he removed from the Health Department , and became a professor in the faculty of medicine and director of the new Hygiene Institute , attached to the University of Berlin .
Here , with the help of his assistants , numbers of those who later became the leading bacteriologists in all countries were trained in his methods and endowed with some portion of his enthusiasm and earnestness .
The admiration with which he was regarded by his pupils , and the absolute faith which he inspired , amounted in many cases to actual worship , and afford further evidence of the essential greatness of the man .
* Amongst the numerous honours conferred upon him by scientific and academic bodies throughout the civilised world was the Foreign Membership of the Boyal Society , to which he was elected in 1897 .
There have no doubt been many discoverers as great as Koch , but it must be seldom that one has been so individually associated with the development of a science .
Bacteriology has to so great an extent grown up around Koch , that the title " Father of Bacteriology " has been conferred upon him by his admiring compatriots .
C. J. M.

