1887 .
] Prof. Lockwood .
Development of , Sc. 273 so as to superadd to the other E.M.Fs .
in operation that due to the mutual neutralisation of the acid and alkali .
Palladium behaves precisely as gold , 52 parts of metal being dissolved per 108 of silver deposited ; local action sometimes causes in each case excess of amount dissolved relatively to the current passing , the opposite result to that observed with the silver cells above described .
Of course , if more powerful oxidising agents are used than simple aeration plates ( such as platinum in sulphuric-chromic solution ) , the action goes on in all such cases still more rapidly ; thus , for example , we did not succeed in dissolving gold in dilute hydrochloric alone by the use of an aeration plate simply ; but on replacing this by a platinum plate immersed in sulphuric-chromic liquor connected by a siphon with the dilute hydrochloric acid in which the gold was immersed , chlorination of the gold was readily effected with the formation in the first instance of aurous chloride , which rapidly broke up into particles of spongy gold and auric chloride in solution .
II .
" The Early Development of the Pericardium , Diaphragm , and Great Veins .
" By C. B. Lockwood , F.R.C.S. , Huuterian Professor of Anatomy in the Royal College of Surgeons of England .
Communicated by G. M. Humphry , F.R.S. Received November 26 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The history of the development of the pericardium , diaphragm , and great veins is traced by means of rabbit 's embryos ranging from the eighth to the seventeenth day of intrauterine life .
The splanchnic origin of the two halves of the heart is briefly illustrated , and each separate half is shown to project into the foremost end of the coelom .
The approximation of the halves of the heart , .and of the coelom in which they are contained , and the formation of the mesocardium posterius and anterius , is next narrated .
The course of the omphalomesenteric veins to the heart along the splanchnic wall of the coelom is then traced , and those vessels are shown to divide the coelom into two parts , a " cardiac " and a " pleuroperitoneal .
" At the beginning of the ninth day the coelom consists of two halves which are some distance apart towards the tail end , but converge towards the head to open behind the omphalomesenteric veins , into the cardiac portions of the .
coelom .
To adopt a rough comparison , the coelom is , at the beginning of the ninth day , not unlike a pair of trousers ; the cardiac portion would correspond to that part of the trousers which receives the pelvis , whilst the hinder parts of the coelom would correspond to the places for the legs .
To 274 Prof. C. B. Lockwood .
[ Dec. 15 , carry the simile a step further , it might be said that the omphalomesenteric veins would ran round the front of the trousers opposite the bend of the groins .
An adhesion of the omphalomesenteric veins to the somatopleure , at the level of the hinder end of the heart , is next described , and identified with the mesocardium laterale , and is shown to he the way by which the umbilical veins find a passage to the heart .
Those vessels develop in the somatopleure , and are by means of it brought in relation with the endometrium in a manner which is described .
The portions of the omphalomesenteric veins which cross the ventral splanchnic boundary of the coelom are held by the mesocardium posterius , and by the mesocardium laterale , close to the dorsal wall of the coelom , and .
in consequence , as the cardiac and pleuro-peritoneal portions of the coelom expand , the part bounded by the omphalomesenteric veins remains stationary and narrow .
This narrow part of the coelom is named the " iter venosum , " because the great veins have so much to do with its formation , and , subsequently , with its closure .
The development of a septum , the septum transversum , between the cardiac and pleuro-peritoneal portions of the coelom , is attributed to the fixation of the omphalomesenteric veins .
When , in due course , the heart expands and is carried tailwards by the cranial flexure and its own growth , those vessels continue to hold the ventral splanchnic wall of the coelom close against the dorsal wall , and in consequence it becomes retroflected behind the heart .
This retro-flected portion stretches from one mesocardium laterale to the other , across the axis of the embryo ; its front surface is in contact with the heart , and its hinder surface is covered with hypoblast in which the liver originates ; thus a ventral diaphragm is formed between the liver and the heart .
The appearance of other somatic veins , namely , of the anterior cardinals and afterwards of the posterior cardinals , is noted .
The former develop first and empty into the umbilical veins just as they ( the umbilical veins ) open into the omphalomesenteric ; when the posterior cardinal veins appear they join the anterior cardinals , so that a portion of each of the latter nearest the heart becomes the Cuvierian duct .
Until the middle of the ninth day the embryo lies with its back to the uterus .
The way in which it turns its right side and afterwards its venter towards the utei*us is described , and also the infolding of the somatopleure and splanchnopleure , and its effect upon the relations of the great veins and septum transversum .
The commencement of the umbilical veins and early formation of the placenta are next illustrated .
The allantois of the rabbit is shown to be exceedingly rudimentary , and to take no part in the formation 1887 .
] Early Development of the of the placenta , which is developed in connexion with somatic structures .
The further development of the ducts of Cuvier is then explained , and .
those vessels are shown to end , as did the jugulars from which they are formed , by opening into the mouths of the umbilical veins quite close to the heart .
In the next stage of development , owing to the expansion of the heart , the omphalomesenteric veins , umbilical veins , and Cuvierian ducts , acquire separate openings into the heart , and at the same time the right and left umbilical veins , just before entering the heart , communicate with the venous spaces of the liver , and have through them an alternative route to the heart .
Whilst these changes are in progress , the left omphalomesenteric vein , where it is related to the liver , becomes occluded with liver substance .
The gradual conversion of the mesocardium lateraleand septum traversum into a dorsal pericardium and ventral diaphragm is then described , and afterwards the closure of the iter venosum by the apposition of the Cuvierian ducts and the sides of the trachea and oesophagus ; whilst this is in progress the subclavian veins appear and empty themselves into the Cuvierian ducts , which in this way become the right and left superior venae cavae .
During the twelfth day the umbilical veins lose their direct opening into the heart , and the left vein , taking advantage of the alternative route through the liver , passes through the substance of that organ to end in the right omphalomesenteric vein close to the heart .
The channel which unites the left umbilical vein to the right omphalomesenteric vein is the ductus venosus Arantii .
When the permanent kidneys and hind limbs develop , a vein passes from them into the cardiac end of the right omphalomesenteric vein , so that it becomes the terminal end of the inferior vena cava .
Whilst these changes are in progress numerous mesenteric veins develop , and open into the hinder portion of the right omphalomesenteric , which then becomes the portal vein , and at first empties into the sinus venosus Arantii .
The hepatic portion of the left omphalomesenteric vein is quite obliterated , and that vessel ceases to enter the heart ; however , its hinder part may persist and carry blood from the mesentery into the portal vein , with which it acquires communications .
About the middle of the twelfth day , and when the iter venosum is upon the point of closure , the dorsal diaphragm develops as a crescentic fold projecting from the side body-wall close to the superior venae cavae , and uniting the dorsal pericardium to the dorsal body-wall .
As the thorax develops this dorsal diaphragm travels further tail-wards , its hindermost dorsal attachments being united to the foreend of the urogenital ridge , and its ventral attachments with the dorsal part of the liver and the mesoblast which covers it .
On the Brain of Monkeys .
Presents .
[ Dec. 15 , The growth and development of the dorsal diaphragm is traced until , upon the thirteenth day , it unites with the dorsal mesentery , and forms a complete partition between the thorax and abdomen .
Finally , the development of the crura and other muscular portions of the diaphragm is mentioned .
III .
" An Investigation into the Function of the Occipital and Temporal Lobes of the Monkey 's Brain .
" By Sanger Brown , M.D. , and E. A. Schafer^ F.R.S. , Jodrell Professor of Physiology in University College , London .
Received November 24 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains a record of a series of experiments on the brain of monkeys , which consisted in the establishment of definite lesions of the occipital and temporal lobes , and the observation of the results of such lesions .
Drawings showing exactly the extent of the lesion in each case accompany the paper .
Presents , December 15 , 1887 .
Transactions .
Calcutta:\#151 ; Asiatic Society of Bengal .
Journal .
Vol. L1Y .
Part 2 .
No. 4 .
Yol .
LV .
Part 2 .
No. 5 .
Vol. LYI .
Part 2 .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Calcutta 1887 ; Proceedings .
1887 .
Nos. 6-8 .
8vo .
Calcutta .
The Society .
Cambridge :\#151 ; Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Yol .
YI .
Part 2 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1887 .
The Society .
Devonshire :\#151 ; Devonshire Association .
Report and Transactions .
A ol .
XIX .
8vo .
Plymouth1887 ; The Devonshire Domesday .
Part 4 .
8vo .
Plymouth 1887 .
The Association .
Glasgow :\#151 ; Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Yol .
XVIII .
8vo .
Glasgow 1887 .
The Society .
Heidelberg:\#151 ; Naturhistorisch-Medicinischer Yerein .
Yerhand-lungen .
Band IY .
Heft 1 .
8vo .
Heidelberg 1887 .
The Yerein .
Leipzig:\#151 ; Astronomische Gesellschaft .
Yierteljahrsschrift .
Jahrg .
XXII .
Hefte 2-3 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1887 .
The Society .
1 urstlich-Jablonowski'sche Gesellschaft .
Jahresbericht .
1887 .
8vo .
Leipzig .
The Society .
Konigl .
Sachs .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Abhandlungen ( Math.-Phys .
Class ) .
Band XIII .
Nos. 8-9 .
Band XIY

