]\gt ; 218 Dr. A. A. ambaut .
( b ) On the other hand , in the cortex surrounding the area referred to , old-standing optic atrophy causes no modiiication of the lamination .
( c ) In anophthalmos the conjoined outer granule layer and line of Gennari ( for the grallules in the former layer are not sufficiently obvious to admit of easy micrometer measurement alone ) are narrowed down to two-thirds of the normal thickness , the other layers of the cortex being approximately un- changed .
This amount of narrowing is the same as that found in cases of old-standing optic atrophy .
( l ) The majority of the layers of the cortex either insidc or outside the area of special tion do not vary appreciably in thickness as a result of or chronic insanity , but there is an almost correspondence between the thickness of the conjoined first and second years cf the cortex and the degree of or dementia existing in the patient .
of ( 1 ) The area located and described in this paper is the primary visual region of the cortex cerel ) ( 2 ) The of this to hich / ercnt v impressions primarily pass is the of the line of ( 3 ) A marked contl.action of the area in 1 , extent and tion , without bsence of the line of , occurs in anophthalmos .
( 4 ) This can be as the of the ding ) ' of In this projection the ave the rinc fissnrc reprcsents the upper the palt below the lower corresponding quadrants of ) Undel.gl.ound Tentperature at ford in the Year 18 detcrmined ) Five l'latinum Lesistance lnctcrs.\ldquo ; A. deliHe O municated by .
H. ITHS , eccived June 21 , 1900 .
I. of The i1lstrnmcltts with the earth-tcmperatnres given in were ) five of and Griffiths The thermometers crc in nldisturl ) , the four as detjrrnined by ResistaJtce Therrno } .
219 lying one under the other in a vertical plane sneath the of the south lavvn of the Radcliffe Observatory , within a few feet of the Stevenson 's in which the dry bulb and the wet bulb , the maximm and thermometers , are suspended .
A fifth thermometer was subsequently placed at a depth of ) feet in a pit .
The actual depths of the various thermometers lred i October , 1898 , lvere as follows:\mdash ; II .
III .
Thermometer .
1 .
Depth in .
3 in .
5 in .
9 in .
The resistance box is in its general design to described by .
Griffiths , ) simplified to the of work for hich it intended .
It is provided with three prlncipal coils , , and , lvhose nominal , 20 , 40 , ) units respectivel .
, a box unit being about ohm .
The pparatus is provided a slow motion contact , of .
Horace Darwin 's pattern , Mr. Griffiths 's thermo-electrio key .
In the standardisation of the apparatus the method described by .
Griffiths , in his article in 'Nature , ' referred to above , was in the main followed .
The temperature coefficient was determined by .
Griffiths , in his ' own laboratory at Cambridge .
Two separate series of ) servationS led to the following results:\mdash ; Range of Temperatule Date . .
coeIficient .
July 27 0000243 August 8 The value actually used in the reductions was From ) servations made when the instrnment mted in sitn at Oxford , the of the coils were found to ] ) mcan box units , one scale division of the )ridge lvire is equ to box lmits .
One of the most tions in conncction with this ject is the degree of ncnce in the points , determined tervals of time ; but the process of rdisation is not one call ) very frequently npplied .
* : Nature , ' vol. 53 , November 14 , 1895 .
aturc , ' vol. 53 , ovembcr 1 Tralls , pp. 397-8 , vol. 184 ( 1893 ) .
220 Dr. A. A. anlbaut .
Temperature at Oxford , All the instruments were very carefully standardised by means of observations extending over three days , in October , 1898 , and on October 6 , 1899 , taking ntage of a visit from Mr. Griffiths , I had the 6-in .
thermometer dug up , and we examined its zero point after exactly a year 's continuous observations .
The readings agreed to within C. , being In 1898 In 1899 For reasons given in the paper , it was not thought necessary to re-examine the boiling point .
For another thermometer ( A ) , kept in the observing room , the fundamental interval was found to have remained practically mchanged , being In 1898 And in 1899. .
, II .
Discussion of The first step in discussion of the observations to group them into monthly means , and thence to deduce the rmonic expressions which will repressnt the of each thermometer throughout the year .
These monthly means expressed in degrees Fahrenheit are given in the following table:\mdash ; Mean Ionthly Temperature of the Ground at the Radcliffe Observatory , Oxford , 1899 .
rofessor W. Thomson , " " On the Reduction of ations of ndergrounl Tt.lnpcraturc , \ldquo ; TraJlS .
Roy .
Soc. Edin vol. , p. 409 .
as ometers .
221 The rmonic expression to represent the temperature for any thermometer will ) oos 2t\amp ; c. ( c ) , or ( D ) , where denotes the time represented as the fraction of the year , and is equal to .
From the monthly means given above we deduce the following:\mdash ; Values of the Coefficients .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
3 .
1 .
From each wave as observed at any pair of thermometers we ) two determinations of the diffusivity of the , one from the diminution of amplitude and the other from the of phasc .
In computing the value of the expression , the Paris the Fahrenheit degree been used .
I have omitted the results for the ( 6 inches ) , which are too much affected by the other From six sons of the amplitude retardation of the at the four thermometers we ) twelve tions of the of , mettn of which is .
For the the mcan ) tained i a is This elosc reement of the mean of the is very secms to a high degree of ccision i ) the The papel lvith the tions of reHnlts some discrepallcics ) theory itlt ervations which , lthongh they are less thalt might exPected , one ] likc to ncicb dnc partly to ) the tionS ) ictly of a iodic c the theo ] supposes , they expcctod to ) diminished the of ) Prof. K. rson .
On of Stress , of years , and partly to arities , physical and formal , in the sllrface of the ground .
Another source of irregularity affecting previous observations of this sort , namely , thermometer errors arising from the uncertainty as to the temperature of the liquid in the long stems of the mercury or lcohol thermometers , does not in this case apply ; and if other errors pecllliar to the platinum thermometers exist , they seem to be confined within much smaller limits .
" " On the Kinetic Accumulation of Stress , illustrated by the Theory of ulsive Torsion By , Professor of Applied Mechanics , University College , London .
Received May Jnne 21 , 1900 .
( Abstraot .
) 1 .
It is usual in engineering practice to double the value of the stresses , calculated statically , when a live load comes onto a girder ; and further various empirical laws , suoh as those due to lVohler , are adopted in the case of repeated loading to measure the effective resistance of a structure .
While these methods , practically adopted , show very clearly that there is a just appreciation that ding varying with the time differs in its nature very considerably from purely permanent loading , they yet fall considerably short of the definiteness required from the standpoint .
Occasionally it must be confessed they would even from the practical standpoint were it not for the large factor of safety usually adopted .
So soon as live load comes onto a girder , even -ithout impnlse , vibrational terms arise in the strains , and the same thing occurs idso in the parts of machinery subjected to externaI forces changing the time .
The discussion of the strains in irder due to olling 1 was first by Sir eorge Stokes in 1849 , * his resnlts consider ) extended in papers Phillips , ldot , Brosse , and ds Saint-Venant .
The latter has further dealt with ) of problems of what I have where t as as a variety of of lsive resilicnce in the of bars receiving tndinal impacts .
S The numerical resnlts of pers , vell as his representations , rdly seem ' of ' vol. 1 , .
1276 1417 .
, vol. 2 , } .
372\mdash ; 3S2 .
, vol. 2 , S , arts 401\mdash ; 411 .
( of the subject see art .
311 .
)

