13 .
' " On a General Law of Density in saturated Vapours .
" By J. J. Waterston , Esq. Communicated by Lieut. Colonel Sabine , R.A. , V.P. and Treas .
R.S. &amp;c. Received June 19,1851 .
The author of this paper commences by stating that the relation between the pressure and temperature of vapours in contact with their generating liquids has been expressed by a variety of empirical formulae , which , although convenient for practical purposes , do not claim to represent any general law ; and that some years ago , while examining a mathematical theory of gases , he endeavoured to find out , from the experiments of the French Academy , whether the density of steam in contact with water followed any distinct law with reference to the temperature measured from the zero of gaseous tension ( situated at -461 ?
Fahr. by Rudberg 's experiments , confirmed by Magnus and Regnault ) .
To avoid circumlocution , he calls temperatures measured from this zero G temperatures , and observes that if t represents the G temlperature , A the density of a gas or vapour , and p its elastic force , the equation tA =p represents the well-known laws of Marriotte and of Dalton and GayLussac .
He then states that , as the function which expresses a general relation between p and t , in vapours , must include a more simple function expressing a general relation between A and t , the proper course seemed to be to tabulate the quotients L from the experiments of the Academy , and to project them in a curve .
For reasons connected with the vis viva theory of gases , which represents the G temperature as a square quantity , he projected these quotients or densities as ordinates , to the square root of the G temperatures as abscissse ; and found that the curve traced out was of the parabolic kind , but of a high order .
Considering the density as a cubic quantity , the cube roots of the densitieswere set off as ordinates to the same abscisse , and the authorwas gratified to find that the resulting curve was the Conic Parabola .
To ascertain whether this was accurately the case , the square roots of these ordinates , corresponding to the sixth roots of the densities , were set off to the same abscisse , that is the square roots of the G temperatures .
The result is shown in a chart , in which , as the author observes , the points determined from the observations range with great precision in a straight line , any slight divergence being sometimes to the right and sometimes to the left ; precisely as might be expected from small errors of observation .
Other series of experiments on steam were projected in a similar manner , and it was found that , although no two exactly agreed with each other , each set ranged in a straight line nearly .
The vapours of ether , alcohol and sulphuret of carbon , were found to conform to the same law , as were likewise M. Avogadro 's observations on the vapour of mercury , and Faraday 's experiments on liquified gases ( Phil. Trans. 1845 ) .
Of these last olefiant gas is remarkably in accordance with the law , as are nitrous oxide , ammonia , cyanogen , sulphurous acid , and carbonic acid at the upper part of its range ; but muriatic acid , sulphuretted and arseniuretted hydrogen , do not show the same regularity .
The co-ordinates of the points being the square root of the G temperatures and the sixth root of the densities , the equation to the straight line which passes through the points expresses the sixth root of the density in terms of the G temperature .
The constants to be determined in this equation are the inclination of the straight line to the axis of x or that on which V/ t is measured , and the distance from the origin at which it cuts this axis , calling the cotangent of this angle h , and this distance g , A1 , A2 densities at G temperatures t. t2 , h/ t2/ t and g= V/ t~h Al .
The constants g and h being thus determined from two observations , the equation for the density at any other G temperature is { i ?
Vt }g 6 and for the pressure P= { vtt .
The several equations , with the numerical values of the constants g and h , for the series of observations previously referred to and represented on the chart , are then given , the G temperatures being in degrees of Fahrenheit 's scale , and the values of h being calculated so as to give the pressure in inches of mercury .
The author remarks that the observations on the vapour of water below 80 ?
show a small excess of density above what is required by the line corresponding to those at higher temperatures ; and that it is a curious circumstance that the law of expansibility of water also becomes disturbed at about the same temperature .
In proof of this , the observations of M. Despretz ( Ann. de Chim .
vol.lxx .
) being projected , by making the volume the ordinate to the square root of the G temperature as abscissa , these observations above 25 ?
C. or 77 ?
F. give in the most exact manner a conic parabola ; but below 77 ?
they no longer give that curve .
The equation to the parabola for temperatures above 77 ?
F. is a(v--0)=( V/ t-)2 , in which v is the volume at the G temperature t , in terms of its volume unity at 39 ?
'2 F. or 4 ?
C. ( its point of maximum density ) , a=352*38 , 0-=-99872 , and 0=21'977 or 2==483 ? .
The law of the increase of density and temperature in saturated vapours having a certain analogy with the law of increase of density and temperature in air while suddenly compressed or dilated , the author next discusses the latter subject in a manner similar to that in which he had discussed the former .
From this discussion he draws the following conclusions:1 .
When air is compressed or dilated , the G temperature varies as the cube root of the density ; and the tension as the 4th power of the G temperature , or the cube root of the 4th power of the density .
2 .
The mechanical force exerted by a given quantity of air while expanding from one density to another , is proportional to the difference of the cube roots of these densities , or to the difference of their G temperatures : hence the fall of temperature is proportional to the force expended .
3 .
The mechanical force exerted upon a given quantity of air , while compressing it from one density to another , is proportional to the difference of the cube roots of these densities , or to the difference of their G temperatures : hence the rise of temperature is proportional to the force exerted .
4 .
The total mechanical force exerted by a volume of air of a given tension , while expanding indefinitely , is equal to that tension acting through three times the volume .
5 .
The total mechanical force exerted by a volume of air while expanding indefinitely is proportional to its G temperature .
6 .
A given quantity of air while expanding , under a constant pressure , from one temperature to another , exerts a mechanical force equivalent to one-third the difference of temperature ; and the quantity of heat required to change the temperature of air under a constant pressure , is four-thirds of that required to effect the same change of temperature with a constant volume .
The author concludes by observing that it is singular that these simple and , he considers , important deductions from MM .
Gay-Lussac and Welter 's experiments , have been overlooked by the eminent mathematicians who have elaborately discussed this subject .
The artificial position of the zero-point on the ordinary scales of temperature may perhaps account for this by its tendency to confine our ideas , Dalton 's and Gay-Lussac 's law of expansion seems imperatively to have required that , in all computations having reference to gases and vapours , the temperature should have been reckoned from the zero of gaseous tension ; yet it has not been so ; and it is inlpossible to avoid the conclusion , that if it had been otherwise , if no other temperature but what we have had so often to refer to as the G teinperature had been indicated in their analyses , we should have profited more by their labours , and been further advanced in the science of heat and elastic fluids .

