]\gt ; the of Various by a- , , and By D. , B.Sc. , 1851 Exhibition Research Scholar of the University of Adelaide ; Emmanuel College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received February 28 , \mdash ; Read March 14 , 1907 .
) When an ionising agent traverses a gas , the ionisation between two parallel planes separated by a distance a is measured by K. where denotes the ionisation per cubic centimetre when it is ionised throughout by an intensity of the ionising agent equal to that between planes .
In order to obtain values of in practice , the gases under investigation are reduced to such low ressures that they absorb only a small fraction of the of the ionising , and a set of readings with different gases then ives their respective values of for the intensity of the ionising agent where it enters the ionisation chamber .
A test that the absorption of energy in the is small is that the ionisation is directly proportional to the pressure .
Strutt* has ried out a set of experiments on the ionisation of a number of gases by , and -rays .
This paper gives the ionisation of a larger number of gases for these rays and the conclusions which may be deduced from the results of the experiments .
Let us first consider the -particle .
S1 .
The -particle , as the experiments of Prof : and the writer have shown , is a better ioniser towards the end of its course than at the beginning .
We must , therefore , compare the ionisations in different for the same velocity of the -particle .
If is a distance the course of an -particle measured from where it enters a gas , and is its complete then , if the ratio is kept constant when dealing with a number of gases , the velocity of the ticle is the same at the end of each distance whatever the nature or pressure of the gas .
This follows from the fact that since a slab of matter cuts the range of the -particle down by very approximately the same amount in whatever part of the path it may be placed , the ratio of the of an -particle in one gas to that in another is independent of the initial velocity of the -particle .
Therefore , the distances in various gases at the end of which the -particle has the same velocity are given by const .
, that is const .
But the sets of relative ionisations , each of which is taken with a different velocity of the will be different unless the ionisation along the course of an -particle is ' Phil. Trans , vol. 196 , p. 507 , 1901 , and ' Roy .
Soc. Proc p. 208 , 1903 .
On the lonisation of Various Gases by .
221 similar in all gases , that is , unless the ratio of the ionisation at the distance to that at the distance in a gas , where , and , denote constants , is the same for all gases .
Prof. has compared the ionisations along the course of an -particle in some ascs and found them approximately similar , and this is therefore probably true in general .
Thus the relative ionisations in various gases for the same velocity of the -particle are independent of the magnitude of the velocity of the -particle .
Therefore , if and I denote respectively the total ionisation and ionisation per cubic centimetre of a gas in terms of air as the standard , and denotes the stopping power of a molecule of the gas in terms of that of an air molecule , then is the of an -particle in the gas in terms of its range in air , and the relation between the qualities , and is given by ST .
( 1 ) Let us assume that it requires the same amount of to make an ion from an atom , whether it is free or combined with other atoms .
Let denote the total number of ions that would be made by an -particle in a gas whose molecules consist of atoms , and the total number that would be made in a whose molecules consist of atoms , so that , if the energy of the -particle is denoted by unity , the respective energies required to make an ion from each of the atoms and are and .
Let and respectively denote the stopping powers of the atoms and in terms of that of an air molecule .
Then , if we have a gas whose molecules consist of atoms combined with atoms , the stopping power of this gas will be , and the range of an -particle in terms of its range in air at the same pressure will be .
The average amount of energy expended by the -particle .
a length of path in the gas equal to the complete range of the -particle in air is , therefore , , and therefore the respective amounts of expended on the atoms and are and .
The respective amounts of energy expended along the whole path of the -particle on the atoms and are therefore and The total ionisation , , of the -particle in the gas is , therefore , given by that is by .
( 2 ) Trans. Boy .
Soc. of South Australia , ' Oct. , 1906 .
VOL. LXXIX.\mdash ; A. Mr. R. D. Kleeman .
On the [ Feb. 28 , Writing this value of for in equation ( 1 ) and for we get .
( 3 ) From the manner in which equations ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) were obtained , it will be readily seen that , in general , if the molecules of a gas consist of atoms , ( 4 ) and .
( o ) Now , is the ionisation per cubic centimetre in a gas whose molecules consist of atoms , in terms of air as the standard , and the ionisation per cubic centimetre in a gas whose molecules consist of atoms , etc. ( See equation ( 1 ) .
) Therefore , if the assumption made in the inning is true , the ionisation in a complex gas must be an additive property of the constituent atoms .
The ionisation values of a number of gases are iven in the fifth column or ' Table I. A large number of these are taken from a paper by Prof. Table I. ionisatio.ionisat .
'Trans .
Roy .
Soc. of South Australia , ' Oct. , 1906 .
1907 .
] of by -Rays .
who obtained them by measuring the ionisation of a certain point along the course of a bundle of -rays .
The value for was obtained by multiplying the total number of ions made in , as found by Laby , the calculated stopping power ( equation ( 1 ) ) , while the others , with the exception of were obtained by the writer , using the same method as Prof. The value for is taken from Strutt 's paper , and I have also placed his value for H2 under in the table .
The method used by Strutt is not altogether unobjectionable in the light of more recent of the properties of the -particle , unless special precautions are taken , but still his values , with the exception of fairly well with those obtained by Prof. , for the same gases .
The ionisation is approximately an additive quantity .
If the atomic ionisation iven in the second olumn of the table are used to calculate the ionisations of the various gases , the values iven in the sixth column are obtained .
The reement between the experimental and calculated values , , and for the present , is as good as can be expected .
This shows then , that the assumption made in the inning is so far and that , thel'efore , the amount of necessary to make ion fro1n an atom of these gases is independent of chemical combination .
It should be observed that from the existence of an additive ionisation law alone it does not follow that the energy spent to make an ion from an atom is independent of chemical combination .
For the total number of ions made by an ionising , when its energy decreases from to , depends , besides the intensity ionisation along its comse , on the distance traversed during this change of energy .
If we divide the atomic ionisation of an atom , that is , , by the stopping power of the atom in terms of that of an air molecule , we ooet the atomic total ionisation ( see equation ( 5 ) ) , and the reciprocal of this gives the energy necessary to make an ion from an atom in terms of an atom of an air molecule as the standard .
The powers of the atoms occurring in the gases given in Table I have been calculated by the square root law from the atomic weights , taking the atomic weight of the standard air atotl , and are boiven in the lower part of the second column .
The atomic total ionisation and energy necessary to make an ion from an atom , calculated from the second column , are given in the third column .
It will be seen that the -particle spends the least amount of per ion when sulphur atoms are ionised , and the greatest amount when nitrogen atoms are ionised .
The expenditure of energy by the -particle on atoms of ' Pass .
of Electr .
through Gases , ' by Prof. J. J. Thomson , new edition , p. 369 .
Mr. R. D. Kleeman .
On the [ Feb. 28 , the same kind in a gas consists in ionisation , collision , etc. , the sum total of the energy expended being proportional to the square root of the atomic weight of an atom .
It does not follow , therefore , that the -particle finds it really easier to ionise a sulphur atom than a nitrogen atom ; all we can say is that the total expenditure of energy per ion is less with the sulphur atom .
The gases , H2 , , especially H2 , show deviations from the additive law , the calculated being greater than the experimental values , and I have not tried to bring them into a line with the other gases , because these gases show similar deviations with other ionising ents .
Thus the chemical bond affects the ionisation per cubic cen timetre in these ases .
If the stopping powers of these gases follow the square root law , the energy spent on any one of their atoms is the same as when it occurs in any of the other gases .
The stopping power of has been determined and was found to be normal , therefore the -particle spends more energy per ion when made from a hydrogen atom of a molecule of than from a hydrogen atom of a molecule of any of the other gases .
Thus the chemical bond affects not alone the ionisation per cubic centimetre in , but also the energy spent per ion , and this is probably also true for and .
The energy spent per ion of a atom , when it occurs in , is given under in Table I. In the seventh column of Table I , the experimental values of the total ionisation are given for some of the gases .
The greater number of these are taken from Professor Bragg 's paper .
The equations ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) may be used to calculate the total ionisation and the ionisation per cubic centimetre of a gas obeying the additive ionisation law and the square root law for the stopping power .
The total ionisation values calculated by equation ( 4 ) are given in the eighth column of the table .
For the denominator of the fraction in equation ( 4 ) , which is the stopping power of the gas , I have used the experimental value of the stopping power instead of calculating it from the atomic stopping powers given in the second column , because this gives a better agreement between the calculated and experimental total ionisation .
It may be mentioned that Prof. Bragg has that the ionisation per cubic centimetre in a gas , denoted by ks in his paper , is approximately proportional to the molecular volume of a molecule .
The experiments on the ionisation of various gases by -rays will now be cribed .
* Bragg and Kleeman , ' Phil. Mag Sept. , 1905 .
Bragg and Kleeman , ' Phil. Mag Sept. , 1905 , and Bragg , ' Trans. Boy .
Soc. of South Australia , ' vol. 30 , p. 1 .
of Various Gases by -Rays .
S 2 .
Fig. 1 is a sketch of the apparatus and their arrangement in these experiments .
A is the ionisation chamber , the outside case of which was connected to a potential of 200 volts .
It was of a cylindrical form and had a height and diameter of 10 and 9 cm .
respectively .
The electrode was connected to an electrometer of Lhe Dolezalek type .
The source of -rays was a quantity of radium placed at such a from the chamber that a convenient leak was obtained , which used to be about 200 mm. divisions in ten seconds .
The process of filling the ionisation chamber with pure vapour of some liquid was as follows : stop-cock was opened and closed , and chamber , together with the glass flask , exhausted by means of FIG. 1 .
a Fleuss pump till the pressure , indicated by the mercury gauge , was a few millimetres , when the stop-cock was Some of the liquid was then poured into , and by opening the stop-cock part of the liquid was allowed to run the catch , and evaporisation allowed to go on till the desired vapour-pressure was reached , when the stop-cock was closed .
Care was taken that the pressure of each vapour was not too near that necessary to produce condensation .
The air which was not removed from the ionisation chamber by the pump was swept by the stream of vapour into the flask whose capacity was about ten times that of the ionisation chamber .
When the standard air leak was taken , the pressure was always so arranged that the leak was about equal to that of the vapour , in order to avoid the error introduced by the change of capacity of electrometer with the defleotion .
Mr. R. D. Kleeman .
the [ Feb. 28 , The and second swing of the electrometer needle , when the current was roken , were usually read , and the position of rest of the needle calculated by the formula given in a paper*by the writer .
With some of the vapours the pressure in the ionisatiou chamber radually decreased , but ultimately reached a steady state .
This probably due to some chemical action between the vapour and the rubber washers and tubing and the brass case .
The leak also as a rule decreased , although corrected for the decrease of pressure , and ultimately reached a steady state .
In order to avoid this disturbing effect , the ionisation chamber was first filled with vapour at a lower pressure than that at which the ultimate readings were taken , and allowed to stand for one or two minutes .
The vapour was then swept into the vessel by fresh vapour , and the readings rapidly taken .
In this manner very consistent readings were obtained .
But the ionisation values obtained for some of the vapours were considerably greater than those obtained by Strutt .
The reason for this probably is that Strutt used a weak source of -rays , and therefore had to extend a single reading over a considerable time , during which the vapour may have become more or less impure .
It is also of impcrtance to secure pure chemicals ; the writer used Kahlbaum 's .
The ionisation values of a number of gases , in terms of air at the same pressure as the standard , are given in the column of Table II .
Each value , with a few exceptions , is the mean of three separate determinations give in the three columns .
The ionisation current was smaller with each vapour than that obtained with air at a pressure of cm .
of mercury , and when leaks were taken with air for the pressures , and reduced to correspond to the pressure cm .
, the numbers 2003 , 2018 , 2009 , 2060 , were obtained , which show that the ionisation was proportional to the pressure , in this case with air and , therefore , also for the gases .
The ionisation of a gas by -rays is cm additive property of the atom .
The ninth column of the table contains the ionisation values calculated from the atomic ionisations given in the second column .
The reement between the experimental and calculated values is very , with the exception of , the calculated values being in their case , as with the -rays , greater than those given by experiment .
Strutt 's value for , given in the table un der H2 , agrees fairly well with my own .
Thus the chemical bond in these gases diminishes the ionisation by -rays also .
The atomic ionisations are roughly given by the equation , ( 6 ) ' Phil. Mag p. 276 , Oct. , 1906 . ?
07 .
] of Gases by where denotes the atomic weight .
The ionisations in the third column of the table are calculated from this equation .
Table Experiments on the absorption of -rays by various substances show that if the rays are homogeneous the absorptiou takes place according to an exponential law , the absorption coefficient proportional to the density of the absorbing substance .
If the absorbing substances were distributed in space so that there are always the same number of molecules .
cubic centimetre , as is the case with gases at the same pressure , then the absorption coefficient would be proportional to the sum of the of the atoms of a molecule , and therefore an additive quantity .
Let us suppose that the -rays do not spread out .
their course .
Let denote the total ionisation in a cylinder of gas of 1 cm .
cross-section and infinite length in terms of the total ionisation iu a similar cylinder of air , the axes of the cylinders being parallel to the direction of the rays .
Let denote the absorption coefficient , and I the ionisation per cubic centimetre Mr. R. D. Kleeman .
On the [ Feb. 28 , where the rays enter the cylinder , in terms of air at the same pressure as the standard .
Then and therefore .
( 7 ) We have thus a similar equation connecting the total ionisation , the absorption and the ionisation per cubic centimetre , in the case of -rays to that which obtains in the case of -rays .
Since can be calculated , being in a given case equal to the molecular weight of the gas divided by that of air , and I calculated by means of the atomic ionisations given in the second column of Table II , we can obtain from equation ( 7 ) the total ionisation by -rays in a given gas , a quantity that will scarcely be ever determined directly , but only by some indirect method such as this .
The calculated total ionisation values for a number of gases are given in the second column of Table III , and in the third column the experimental values of the total ionisation by the -particle are placed for comparison .
It will be seen that the values , like those of the -particle , all lie between the numbers one and two .
Table III .
NCHAir We can deduce from equation ( 7 ) two equations similar to the equations ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) relating to the -particle .
When the energy of an -particle decreases from to in a gas , the distance traversed is equal to the reciprocal of the sum of the square roots of the weights of the atoms of a molecule multiplied by a constant , this constant Oeing the same from gas to if they are at the same pressure .
In the case of -rays , the distance 1907 .
] Ionisation of Various Gases by a- , , and -Rays .
traversed during which their decreases from to is given by that Since is constant , the distance traversed in a oeraS is inversely proportional to the sum of the atomic weights of a molecule .
hus may be called the power of a with respect to -rays .
Therefore , if we introduce quantities atomic ionisation and atomic total ionisation , and assume that the amount of spent by the -rays to make an ion from an atom is independent of chemical combination , we can , as is obvious , deduce two similar equations as ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) for the -rays .
Thus we see that , if the ionisation by -rays follows an additive law for some gases , then the above assumption , tlJat the energy spent per ion per atom is independent of chemical combination , is true for these gases .
The total atomic ionisation and the spent per ion per atom , obtained in a similar way to the same quantities for the -particle , are iven in the lower parts of the second and third columns of Table II .
It will be seen that in the case of the atoms iven in the table , the -rays spend the least amount of per ion when ionising hydrogen atoms and the oreatest amount when ionising nickel atoms , nitrogen atoms next .
The -particle , it will be remembered , spends least amount of energy per ion when ionising sulphur atoms .
As pointed out in the , case of the -particle , it does not follow that the must necessarily account for all the energy expended .
If each of the coefficients of absorption of the gases is proportional to the sum of the weights of the atoms of a molecule , as it has been taken to be in the case of the other gases , then the -rays spend more energy per ion made from an atom when it occurs in these ases than when it occurs in any of the others .
Assuming the absorption coefficient of to be normal , the energy spent per ion of an atom of when it occurs in is given under in the table .
The experiments on ionisation by -rays are complicated by the fact that the walls of the ionisation vessel give off secondary cathode rays which possess ionising power themselves .
It will be seen afterwards that the -ray ionisation is almost exactly the same as that obtained for the -rays , therefore , if the ionisation by these secondary rays were of some magnitude , and the -ionisation values different from the , this would not be the case .
Thus we conclude that , whether the ionisation was appreciably aff'ected by these secondary rays or not , the numbers in the table represent the -ionisation in the various gases .
We will now describe the experiments made with -rays .
S3 .
The apparatus used and their arrangement in experiments with the Mr. R. D. Kleeman .
On the [ Feb. 28 , -rays are shown in fig. 2 .
is the ionisation chamber .
A flat circular dish of diameter cm .
, and a small hole in the , contained uranium oxide , which was moistened when put into the dish and then allowed to dry , becoming a solid cake .
The dish , in order to cut off the -particles , was covered with aluminium foil bent down at the side , and held FIG. 2 .
down by brass cross-pieces soldered to a similar but larger dish , into which was placed .
The distance of the aluminium foil from the electrode was 5 cm .
It will be see1l from the that the motion of the air or vapour , during exhaustion or the letting in of vapour , was always such that if uranium particles were carried along by the current of gas , they would be swept into the compartment , and thus would not affect the -leak .
The leak , when the chamber was full of air at atmospheric pressure , was about 63 mm. divisions of the scale in 10 seconds .
The -ionisation values of the gases in Table II are given in the sixth column of Table .
Leaks were taken with air for the pressures , 7757 cm .
of mercury and reduced to a pressure of cm .
, and the numbers 2430 , , 2340 , 2400 obtained , which show that the ionisation was proportional to the pressure .
The leaks with the gases in the table were generally smaller than that of air at atmospheric pressure , and therefore the ionisation must have been approximately proportional to the pressure in the neighbourhood of the pressures used .
907 .
] of by -Rays .
Table The ionisation values obtained with -rays are placed in the seventh column for comparison .
It will be seen that they are almost exactly the same as those obtained with -rays , the only appreciable difference with the iodides .
The eighth column contains the ionisation values calculated from the atomic ionisations iven in second column , the atomic ionisations being the same as those used in the case of -rays , except for the atoms , Br , and I , but the atomic ionisations of I only differ appreciably from one another .
An interesting deduction can be made from the additive ionisation law .
Since the ionisation is inndependent of chemical combination , the number of electrons lost by an atom a constant which is independent of chemical combination , but which may vary with the kind of atom .
Now , Townsend 's diffusion experiments , as well as the experiments by Prof. Thomson on the charge of an ion , show thal the positive and ative ions have equal charges when made by , or -rays , in air , , or .
Thus the atoms lose one electron only when ionised by one of these ents , and not more than one atom of a molecule gets ionised .
Therefore , as example , with , the ratio of the number of oxygen atoms per cubic centimetre , or molecules in which the atom is ionised , to the number Mr. R. D. Kleeman .
On the [ Feb. 28 , of molecules in which the carbon atom is ionised is , in the case of or rays , as 2 to , that is , as 116 to .
That the ionised atom loses one electron only is probably true for all kinds of atoms .
In the case of the -particle , there is scarcely any evidence as to the number of electrons lost by an ionised atom .
The velocities of the positive and negative ions under an electric force , and other properties , suggest , however , that an atom loses one electron only .
The atomic ionisation for , and -rays has been plotted against the atomic weight in fig. 3 .
There is an interesting similarity between the FIe .
3 .
curves obtained , shown by two sets of kinks .
The curves have been separated somewhat , to prevent overlapping .
The ionisation with each ionising agent thus seems to be some periodic function of the atomic weight .
The first short period of the periodic classification of the elements is represented by , the second short period by , Cl , and the first and second long period by Ni , Br , and I respectively .
The similarity between these curves means that similar conditions regulate the chance of a number of atoms getting ionised by one of these ents .
And this may be so if the electron is pulled or knocked out of an atom in one case , while an absorption of energy till something like an explosion of the atom occurs takes place in another case ; for , if one gas is more easily ionised than another by the first 1907 .
] Ionisation of by a- , , and process , we should also expect that a smaller amount of would be necessary to produce an explosion of an atom of that gas .
The curves and in fig. 3 show the relation between the energy spent per ion and the atomic weight for and -rays .
These curves also resemble one another , which that similar conditions ulate the total expendi- ture of energy per ion .
It should be observed that from the way the spent per ion is obtained , it does not follow that if the curves A and resemble one another , and must resemble one another .
The numbers representing the energy spent per ion are only relative and , in the case of the -particle , the absolute amount of energy spent per ion decreases as the -particle approaches the end of its course .
This follows from the fact that the -particle makes more ions towards the end of its course , while the rate of expenditure of energy all the course is the same .
It appears from the curves and and , in the case of the -particle , also from the foregoing fact , that the spent per ion is not connected in a simple way with the atomic weight and , therefore , not connected in a simple way with the absorption of energy .
The abnormal behaviour of H2 with respect to the energy spent per ion per atom and the ionisation per cubic centimetre , in comparison with other gases , is interesting in connection with the abnormal of cathode rays in , which is pointed out and discussed by Professor Thomson .
* We have no experimental evidence on the connection of the atomic or molecular weight of a gas with the distance traversed by a -ray while its energy decreases from to , say ; and therefore we are not able to determine in this case the relative amounts of energy spent per ion per atom , and whether the amount of energy spent per ion is independent of chemical combination .
Strutt showed in his paper that the ionisations by a- , , and -rays , of the gases examined by him , were nearly proportional to the densities of the gases .
But this is accidental ; moreover , only a rough approximation to the density is shown by the ionisation values given in this paper , and the law does not hold at all for many of the other gases .
This will be evident from comparing ionisations with the densities of the gases given in the last column of each table .
I have much pleasure in thanking Professor Thomson for his kind interest and ready advice at all times .
The Discharge of Electricity through Gases , ' p. 32 .

