XIII .
An Account of the great Derbyshire Denudation .
By Mr. Jo Farey , Sen. In a Letter to the Right I-Ion .
Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read March 21 , 1811 .
SIR , 4 HAD but recently entered on the survey of Derbyshire and its environs , which under your kind patronage I was induced to commence in the autumn of 1807 , and had only cursorily examined the strata , in my way from Charnwood Forest and Breedon in Leicestershire , in order to meet you at Overton Hall , before I perceived clearly , that those principles which contemplate the terrestrial strata as terminating or ending in one direction ( simple and important as they are ) , which I had learned under Mr. WILLIAM SMITH in 1801 , and which he has so successfully applied in the filling up of his maps of the strata in the south-east and east , and some of the middle parts of England , would fail me , in their application to the strata of Derbyshire , without taking into consideration along with them , not only the denudation , or local stripping off of patches of strata , some of immense extent and thickness , and even more considerable than those which I had discovered to be missing* from off the Wealds of Kent , Sussex , and Surry , and had explained to you , by a rough section across this great southern denudation in 1806 , and such as the valley of Ashover then appeared to present , a more perfect instance of , around us : but that previously to such denudations of the Derbyshire strata , immense dislocations or vertical derangements of very large piles of strata , separated by the fissures , calledfaults by the miners , needed also to be taken into account , for explaining the appearances of the strata and surface of the district , which I was then about to explore : faults , exceeding immensely in their extent and quantity of lift on one side ( or sink on the other ) any which had occurred to Mr. SMITH , in thie tracing of the south-eastern strata of England , where no faults had been discovered , so considerable as to cut off entirely the connection of the strata , or in other words , to bring strata in contact on the surface , whose places in the series were too distant to be known , and readily traced in their order , in the neighbourhood .
And in consequence , I judged it necessary , on my return to town , when the winter arrived , to set about the consideration of stratified masses , broken and dislocated , and then cut or denudated in all the variety of cases and degrees of each , the results of which investigation , will appear in my Report to the Board of Agriculture on Derbyshire , the first volume of which is now in the press .
With ideas thus extended , I found , on resuming my Survey in the spring of 1808 , that some conclusions that I had formed , and had unfortunately committed to paper , in a sketch of a section across the county , were erroneous , and that immense faults occurred , in places where their existence had not been proved by miners , or generally understood , which combined li2 9343 with the denudations , that were so apparent in my first journey across the county in the preceding autumn , offered , as I proceeded afterwards in filling up my map , a considerably different explanation of the structure of the county , or section of its strata , from that which I had previously made , and permitted some persons to copy .
The first volume of my Report to the Board of Agriculture , abovementioned , has compressed into it , all the most essential particulars of my Survey , which manuscript you did me the honour to examine , and to recommend its adoption to the Board ; but as the plan of that Report did not admit of taking an extended or connected view of the great faults or dislocations of the district , I have troubled you with this Letter , in order to describe them : previous to which it may be right just to recall to your recollection , a few particulars respecting the British stratification .
It is now well known to great numbers of observers , that the thick clay and other strata , on which the metropolis is situated , extend eastward through Essex , Suffolk , and Norfolk to the eastern coast , and in all their extent cover the chalk strata : that these again ( the chalk ) extend from the Isle of Wight to Flamborough Head , and cover other known strata , which have their regular basset-edges , or appearances at the surface , in continuity , to the westward of the limits of the chalk , and of each other ; and thus it has been imagined by many , that the whole surface of England could be referred to , or explained by , an uninterrupted series of basset-edges of strata , dipping to the SE .
and ranging in continuity from SW. to NO .
in certain undulating lines , conformable to the surface , from one sea to the other , just as a certain number at the upper part of the series have been shown to do , by Mr. SMITH'S manuscript maps .
But , after 244 passing the edges of the lias limestones and clay strata , in our progress to the westward , from any of the south-eastern and eastern parts of England , we find on the surface marks of an immense stratum of red earth or marle , which basseting from under the lias clay and sand , seems once to have extended over all the remainder of the British islands , without being now any where covered by patches of upper strata , * much beyond the continuous edge of the lias strata , abovementioned .
Instead , however , of seeing the middle and all the western and northern parts of Britain covered by the same red strata , we find now , in this space , numerous local and many very large tracts of strata , surrounded by vertical and connected faults , and greatly lifted and tilted ; from the surface of which lifted tracts , the upper red earth , and vast and very unequal thicknesses of strata , that lay in regular succession below this red earth , have been denudated , " abrupted , " or carried off , leaving thus , a great variety of what have been called coal-fields , or mineral-basins , in which limited tracts , great and most important series of strata , are to be seen basseting ( owing to the local denudations ) , of which the bassetedges , or continued endings , can no where be traced in these islands , as far as I can learn .
Large tracts of the intervening spaces , between these denudated mineral basins , are still occupied by the red marle , containing local strata of gypsum , rock-salt , sand , micaceous grit-stone , &amp;c. &amp;c. in its substance , or exposed by denudation ; and in others , local strata , or noduies of great extent , or rather , perhaps , rudely crystallized masses of slate , green-stone , sienite , basalt , &amp;c. &amp;c. forming hills or mountains ( often intersected by mineral veins ) from the tops of which masses , the red marle has in most instances been denudated .
It remains a task of great difficulty , yet to be accomplished , to ascertain the lower part of the British series of strata , thus only exposed to view , in local and unconected tracts , or basins , which are in part often concealed by gravel ( frequently so , near their borders ) , and towards which investigation , little has yet been done .
It seems to me , that there are three distinct series of coal-measures , if not more , separated by thick strata of red earths , or marles , not easily distinguished from the upper one above the coal series , or that which underlays the lias strata , as abovementioned , and by thick strata of limestones ; each of which red earths , probably , produce anomalous and local strata , or crystallized mountain masses , in different places , where they form the surface , and the fact of such containing no organic remains , may not have arisen from their having been formed before organized beings existed , as those contend who call them primitive rocks , but because the circumstances proper to crystallization , were unfitted to the propagation and life of either animals , or vegetables ; and may it not be doubted , whether crystallized masses , great or small , are ever the seats of reliquia ?
The northern part of Derbyshire , and the adjoining parts of the surrounding counties , present a denudated tract , and partake of this uncertainty , as to what place in the lower part of the British series of strata , its strata should be referred : from many circumstances , I am inclined to consider the coalfield of Derbyshire , Nottinghamshire , and Yorkshire , underlaying the yellow-lime rock , as lower in the series than any others of the coal-measures alluded to above , dtha tt the fourth limestone rock , which extends from Castleton in Derbyshire , southward to Weaver Hill , near Wooton and Ra msor in Staffordshire , is the very lowest which is known in Britain , and which may account for the circumstance , that the mineral veins and the strata in which they occur in Derbyshire , present some phenomena , which are said to occur no where else .
I shall proceed now to describe the circumstances , under which this great elevation and denudation.of part of the Derbyshire strata seems to have happened , which is , by a series of three or four separately lifted tracts , one within the other , as represented in the small sketch map annexed .
The outer or least lifted of these tracts is bounded on the south by a fault , that I have distinguished by a full line , where ascertained , and by slight dots where only inferred , and denominated it the great Derbyshire fault , which is perfectly defined from near Nottingham across Derbysllire , to the north side of Stone in Staffordshire ( except in a few places where gravel covers it ) , by having red marle , lying nearly horizontal , on all its south side , and different strata on its north side , as will be mentioned further on : the eastern fault or side of this first raised tract is not visible within the limits of my Survey , like the southern , on account of the vast accumulation of quartz gravel in Sherwood Forest , and the peaty alluvia north of it : but it seems probable to me , that its range is from about the town of Nottingham , east of Mansfield , east of Worksop near Bawtry , west of Thorne in Yorkshire , and how much further north this fault proceeds , before it turns to the west , I am unable to state from my own observations ; but from the correspondence of my friend WILLIAM SMITHSON , Esq. of Heath Hall near Wakefield , a very able observer , I conclude , that the boundary fault on the north of the outer lifted tract , ranging not far from the lower part of the course of the Wharf river , suddenly cuts off , or terminates the great Derbyshire and Yorkshire coal-field to the north , and continues S. of Otley and Keighley * near Colne in Lancashire and Clitheroe , bounding still the coal-field of Lancashire to the north .
I am not sufficiently acquainted with the Lancashire strata to hazard a conjecture , as to where this fault turns ( or branches perhaps ) towards the southward again ; but on the west it probably passes not far from Manchester , Stockport in Cheshire , Macclesfield , Congleton , Church-Lawton Salt-works , and joins the great Derbyshire fault , or southern boundary of this very large raised tract , somewhere to the NW. of Stone in Staffordshire , as I judge , from the information which I have received , of the red marle occupying the surface withoutside this raised tract to the westward , in Cheshire and Staffordshire , as well as south of it in Staffordshire , Derbyshire , and Not .
tinghamshire , as abovementioned , and on the east of it from Nottingham to Thorne in Yorkshire , and perhaps further northward .
This border , or plain of red marle , has the tract within it so raised , that the yellow , or magnesian lime rock , probably abuts against the marle at the surface of the strata on the east side , under the gravel , &amp;c. from near Nottingham to near Wetherby in Yorkshire .
From Lenton E. of Nottingham , to Allestry N. of Derby , the upper parts of the coal-measures in the first raised tract , abut on the red marle : here another great fault , called the zig-zag fault , intersects the boundary fault ; from Allestry to the SE .
corner of the Weaver Hills near Wooton in Staffordshire , the second inner tract , with a vastly greater rise than the first , abuts on this southern fault , so as to bring the great limestone-shale ( which underlays all the coal-measures ) against the red marle on the surface ; at this SE .
corner of the Weaver Hills , another great fault ( called the great limestone fault ) intersects the southern boundary ( or great Derbyshire ) fault of the raised tract ; and from this place to the SW. corner of the Weaver Hills near Ramsor , a third inner tract , with four hundred yards or more of perpendicular rise , in addition to the last , occasions the fourth , or lowest limestone rock , to abut against , and even make a high hill above the red marle at the foot of it , on the other side of the great Derbyshire fault ; which here occasions a sudden derangement of the strata ( and a corresponding denudation of the large tract of country to the northward has taken place ) , far exceeding any thing which has hitherto been mentioned by authors , or conceived probably by any one .
MDGcccxI Kk Q49 At the SW. corner of the Weaver Hills abovementioned , the great limestone fault again leaves the south boundary , or great Derbyshire fault , and proceeds northward , after which a corner of the second interior raised tract again presents itself , and the limestone-shale again abuts on the marle , as we pursue the great Derbyshire fault to the westward , owing to the rise being less here by four or five hundred yards , than it was in the third interior tract ; but as we proceed southwestward , owing to the dip of the measures on the N. side of the great Derbyshire fault towards the west , the first grit , the first coal-shale , and the second grit rock successively abut against the marle , before the gravel covering commences , east and south of Cheadle , which prevented my tracing this fault any further , within the limits of my Survey .
It seems probable , however , that somewhere SW. of Cheadle in Staffordshire , a branch sets off from the great Derbyshire fault , or southern boundary of the lifted tracts , and proceeds northward , near to Endon and Bosley in Cheshire ; the triangular tract beyond which , to the westward , shown in the map , forming the pottery coal-field , is much less raised , perhaps , than any of the other tracts which have been here mentioned .
If we return to Allestry N. of Derby abovementioned , and trace the zig-zag fault , through Little Eaton , West Hallan , and Ilkeston in Derbyshire , Awsworth , Greasley , Annesley , Kirkby , and Dirty-Hucknal in Nottinghamshire , Alt-Hucknal , Bolsover , Clown , and Bariborough in Derbyshire , Harthill , South-Anston , North-Anston , Dinnington , &amp;c. in Yorkshire , we'shall find coal-measures on both sides of it , through its whole length , except in two or three instances , where the 2SO yellow lime strata at the top of these coal-measures abut against it for short distances , and between Allestry and Little Eaton , where the limestone-shale below these coal-measures abuts on its W. ; but the rise is very considerable and unequal on the N. and W. sides , through its whole length , compared with the other sides , as I have particularly shown in my Report to the Board , and pointed out the great difficulties which this zig-zag fault has presented , to the right understanding the entire of the great Derbyshire and Yorkshire coal-field , by the many very intelligent and able colliers who are found in it .
The first , or outer raised tract , thus bounded by faults ( except , perhaps on the N. where my Survey has not extended ) , shows no very rapid dips or inclinations of the strata , except in very limited spots , and presents on the surface either the yellow lime rock , or the parts of the coal-measures not very far beneath that rock , compared with the whole thickness of these coal-measures .
The great limestone fault ( which has been mentioned above ) commences in the town of Cromford in Derbyshire , in the first or upper limestone rock , and proceeds through Middleton , Wirksworth , Hopton , Carsington , Ballidon , Parwicl , Newton-Gralge , and Thorpe in Derbyshire , Ilam , Blore , and Thornwood in Staffordshire , and joins the great Derbyshire fault near Wooton ( as abovementioned ) , with which it coincides along the S. end of the Weaver Hills to near Ramsor , where it again leaves this fault and proceeds near Caldon , Water-Houses , Water-fall , Grindon , Wetton Mjll , S. eand of Ecton Hiil , near Gatehamtand Narrowdale in Sta'fordshire , .
Wvoliscote , Beresford , Hartington , Ludwell , Kk 2S1 Pilsbury , Crowdycote , Dowall , Booth , Thirkelow , Edge-end , Buxton Baths , Black-edge , Dove-hole , crosses to the W. side , and again to the E. side of the Grand Ridge * of thie island , passes near Sparrow-Pit , Perry-foot , Odin-Mine , Lane-head , Castleton Town , Pindale , Edingtree , Bradwell , Hazlebadge , Quarters-house , and Windmill-houses , and terminates in the first lime rock between Wardlow-Mires and Litton in Derbyshire .
If now a line be traced on the same first lime rock , through Wardlow , W. of Little Longsdon , W. of Ashford , through Sheldon , Callenge Low , Middleton by Yolgrave , S. of Gratton , Elton , Winster , Wensley , and Snitterton , W. of Matlock Church , Starkholmes , and Willersley Castle to Cromford Town , shown by very fine dots in the map , this line on the first limestone , may be considered as a kind of hinge , or joint , on which the second inner raised tract , and the third inner raised tract have turned a little , and altered their inclinations with respect to each other and the surrounding tracts ( without any vertical derangement at this hinge ) , so that the great limestone fault above described , from Middleton by Wirksworth , round to the westward through Staffordshire , as above , to Quarters-house near great Hucklow ( with the exception of the short distance between Wooton and Ramsor , and some other trifling ones ) has the limestone-shale ( or the shale-limestone , &amp;c. belonging to it ) on its outside on the surface of the second inner raised tract , for more than fifty miles ; but on its other side , owing to the great tilt or rise of the western side of the third inner raised tract , if we begin in Cromford , and pursue the course of the great limestone fault , up BonsalDale , we have at first the first lime on its right or N. side ( as well as on its S. side ) , then the first toadstone , next the second limestone , then the second toadstone , and after its turning to pass through Middleton by Wirksworth , the third limestone also abuts against it , and continues so to do , till the third toadstone appears against it at Hopton , and then the fourth limestone , or lowest known rock of the district , abuts against it all the way round , through Staffordshire to Castleton ( with the exception of the hummocks of third limestone at Buxton and at Barmoor in Peak Forest , and a few sunk gulfs of shale ) through a length of more than forty-five miles .
At the SE .
end of Castleton Town , the third toadstone abuts again : on the right or S. side of this great limestone fault , and from thence to the SW. side of the Windmill-Houses , the third limestone abuts against it , then the second toadstone , the second limestone , the first toadstone , and at length the first limestone , before the fault terminates or becomes too inconsiderable to be readily traced , owing to its no longer deranging the order of the strata on the surface , but lias the first limestone on both its sides ; and thus it happens , that the third inner raised tract , or mineral-field , consisting of the four limestone rocks and three interposed toadstones , and containing about 105,000 acres , has about 51,5oo acres of these on its eastern side , occupied by the three upper limestones and the toadstones , and the remaining 53,5o0 acres in Derbyshire and Staffordshire is occupied by the fourth , or lowest limestone rock , in which only a few mineral veins occur among , its numerous open fissures and caverns .
In the sketch map which accompanies this , I have shown a : smaller , or fourth inner raised tract , on which Bakewell is situated , in great part surrounded by a fault , which I have thence denominated the great Bakewell fault : I have selected this tract , among other small local raised ones , on account of its approaching in shape and position to the others which surround it , and because it explains several curious appearances of the strata in these parts , which have been , and are still likely to be greatly misrepresented .
The fault to which I allude , may be said to commence in the limestone-shale on the E. side of Beeley , to pass on the S. side of the village , across the Derwent and on the S. of HaddonHall , continuing across the pastures to the Lathkil river about a quarter of a mile above Alport , then turns S. past the W. end of Alport to the upper mill , thence WSW .
for about one mile , where this fault again turns to the N. and crosses the Bradford river , and proceeding across the Meadow-place Liberty , crosses Robinstye Mine and the Lathkil river above Over-Haddon mill ; bears then a little to the east of the north , and crosses the new Bakewell and Buxton road at the rise of the hill , passes the N. end of Bird's-head Mine , crosses the Wye river about a quarter of a mile above Bakewell Cotton Mill , proceeds near to Rowdale , turns E. towards Nether Burchill , then NO .
following nearly the course of the brook , it continues the same direction until about-half a mile E. of Hassop , where it turns to the E. crosses the Derwent again half a mile above Baslow , and terminates in the limestone-shale in Barbrook Dale , as it began .
The western side of this fourth inner tract being most raised ( similar to the third tract ) occasions the great elevation of the shale , and its freestone in the hills E. of Bakewell and NO .
of Haddon-Hail ; the sudden appearance of the limestone , on which HaddonHall stands , and in the quarry SSW. of it , on the W. of the road , and thence across the pastures to the .
Lathkil river ; the sudden elevation of the limestone knowls SW. of Yolgrave , near the shale ; and by this same lift , it happens , that the vale of the Bradford suddenly cuts through the first lime rock , as soon as it has crossed this fault , and shows the first toadstone to a considerable height up each side of the valley , but which declines with the dip of the measures in this tract , until the Bradford again gets upon the first toadstone , and then on the first limestone .
In like manner , the greater rise of the measures at this fault , on the SW. of Over-Haddon village occasions the valley of the Lathkil river , which till then had been excavated in the first lime rock , to enter abruptly so deep into the first toadstone , as to lay bare a patch of the second limestone under it in the river , both of which however descend again below the bed of the river , before we get down to the crossing of the Ashburne turnpike road .
This fault also occasions the sudden appearance of shalelimestone on the surface NW. of it , opposite to first limestone on the other side in Bakewell Fields , and of the first toadstone on the NW. of Bakewell Cotton-Mill , almost excavated through by the vale of the Wye river , where it abuts against shale or shale-limestone at the northern end of this noted patch of toadstone , the situation and circumstances of which , when compared with those of the other two patches , at the edge of this same raised tract , as above , will be divested of much of that singularity which has been ascribed to it ; for we see , that each of the three rivers , which pass on to this fourth inner raised tract , have their excavations cut through the first limestone , so as to expose the first toadstone for some distance , until the more rapid descents of the measures than e'55 of the vales , occasion them again to dip and disappear in the bottoms of each of these vales .
I am , Sir , your obliged and very humble servant , J. FAREY , SEN .
Mineral Surveyor .
tipper Crown-street , Westminster , January 31 , 81 I. , .
I , , I%I*N - ' I , * , I ' I ' .
, ct I I , II/ II , iI 1 .
Ii 0E N , I 'i i~ 'k\ NLAN C I-I STE R Is| Penistone WESA Sk &lt; etAh af tiha pri@nipal J1ATU1LTS O ( 1JDIILO TXO OM TA IST A ' JIrx _JYMJ1 JNJp-W J 23S.-JTfSIJR .
S. BY M. JOHIN FA .
RE'Y , SenY IMineral Surv-evor .
/ ' / %x I " ' , f !
/ I ' " &gt; ^ I\ , 'i Tidiii Ba ' Batr !
/ tlr / : ' , " Scale of Mile s Rotrlirham 12346 -_ ' d7 ',9 10o 1R -i2 -,3 _4 -z_ I. .
, , .
, / ~ ?
~ ' .
Castleto n ... , , ` d , : CChapel veI - , \Dove Jle k BareoroiO v.\ , dc/ eSncy .
Wbodt/ ioljp -.\ Hafop\ux iton ' -Baslow/ ^ ~~~ ~ ~~\ , \ ~ ~~~~~~~~ , ^~ * / -~ ^Cliesterfielc .
7'drb-on s-t^~~~~~~~~~~ -\~ U.~~~.\ Bolsover

