538 On the Bases ( Organic ) the Juice of Flesh .
[ May 28 , Schram ( R. ) Ueber das Stundenzonen-System der Amerikanischen Eisenbahnen .
8vo .
Wien1890 ; La Zona Oraria dell ' Adriatico .
12mo .
Trieste1890 ; Auslandische Stimmen iiber die Adria-Zeit .
8vo .
Wien 1890 ; The Actual State of the Standard Time Question .
8vo .
1890 .
The Author .
Sergueyeff ( S. ) Le Sommeil et le Systeme Nerveux .
Physiologie de la Yeille et du Sommeil .
Tomes I-II .
8yo .
1890 .
The Author .
Wolf ( R. ) Astronomische Mittheilungen .
December , 1880 .
8vo .
[ Zurich .
] The Author .
Portrait Medals in bronze of P. J. van Beneden and F. Tiedemann .
Sir James Paget , Bart. , F.R.S. A series of Photographic Studies of the Normal Solar Spectrum .
Mr. George Higgs .
May 28 , 1891 .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Rev. A. M , Norman ( elected June 5 , 1890 ) , was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read I. " On the Bases ( Organic ) in the Juice of Flesh .
Part I. " By George Stillingfleet Johnson , M.R.C.S. , F.C.S. , F.I.C. Communicated by Professor G. Johnson , F.R.S. Received April 28 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The author has endeavoured to ascertain by careful experiments how far the substances hitherto prepared from flesh are true " and really present in the flesh itself , or merely products , due to ( 1 ) the action of chemical or physical agencies applied in the course of extraction , or ( 2 ) to bacterial action modifying the composition of the flesh before it comes into the hands of the operator .
1891 .
] Dr. F. Evans ' Paper on the Fungus of Malaria .
539 Preliminary experiments are first described bearing chiefly npon the first-named source of error .
Liebig 's process for extracting kreatine from the juice of flesh was modified by omitting the use of baryta-water , with the result that abundance of kreatine was obtained , mixed with acid potassium phosphate ( KH2P04 ) .
In Liebig 's process potassium chloride is obtained after the kreatine has been separated .
A preliminary experiment is then described in which the author precipitated the albuminoid matters from the watery extract of fresh butcher 's beef by means of solution of mercuric chloride , the filtrate depositing on standing a spherical precipitate , consisting of the mercury salt of the sarcous kreatinin , from which a tabular kreatinin was obtained isomorphous with the tabular kreatinin obtained by the author from human urine in 1887 .
The special advantages of the method adopted by the author in isolating the kreatinin of urine are next detailed , after which a series of experiments are described in which muscle substance in different stages of freshness was extracted with water , the extracts treated by the mercuric chloride method , and the products compared .
Among these products is sarcous kreatinin , whose properties are fully described and carefully compared with those of urinary kreatinins previously investigated ( vide ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , pp. 493-534 ) .
The final conclusion drawn is that sarcous kreatine is not present in fresh muscle , but results from bacterial action , whereas sarcous kreatinin is probably a true " educt .
" II .
" Note on Dr. Fenton Evans ' Paper on the Pathogenic Fungus of Malaria .
" By W. T. Thiselton Dyer , M.A. , C.M.GL , F.R.S. Received May 12 , 1891 .
The abstract of this paper published in this volume of the ' Proceedings ' contains ( p. 200 ) the following statement : " Alteration in the chemical composition of the nutrient medium . . .
elicited the interesting fact that , under these circumstances , the organism can pass to a more highly developed state , displaying the structure and fructification of a highly organised fungus , but differing in certain important features from any fungus hitherto described .
" This statement will remain on record , and can hardly fail to cause some perplexity to future students of the mtiology of malaria .
1 was present at the reading of the paper .
The fungus exhibited was undoubtedly " highly organised .
" It was in point of fact a typical Mucor , and my friend Professor Marshall Ward , who was also present , was disposed to regard it as identical with the form known VOL. xlix .
2 o

