1903 .
] Generalised Theory Alternative " Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution .
XII .
\#151 ; On a Generalised Theory of Alternative Inheritance , with Special Reference to Mendel 's Laws .
" By Karl Pearson , F.R.S. Received September 11 , \#151 ; Read November 26 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) ( 1 ) .
A great deal of interest has been recently excited by Mendelian theories of inheritance , and a considerable amount of controversy has arisen with regard to their relation to the statistical treatment of inheritance within large populations .
The fundamental conception of the Mendelian theory is the non-fusal of the gametes of two pure races on crossing .
If A , A ' represent the pure gametes of one race and a , a those of the other , the individual arising from the zygote formed by crossing these races contains not fused gametes , but pure gametes of the two original races , and these gametes are equally represented on further crossings among the hybrids .
The whole may be exhibited symbolically as ( AA ' ) x ( aa ) = ( A + A ' ) ( a + a ' ) = ( Aa ) + ( A + ( A'a ) + where in the first product we have the parental zygotes ; in the second product the breaking-up into the gametes is indicated , and on the extreme right the zygotes of the resulting offspring are given .
This is a perfectly simple conception .
We can generalise it at once by replacing the simple couplet ( AA ' ) by n such couplets , and supposing the original parental zygotes to be of the form ( AiAi ) + ( A2A2 ) + ( A3A3 ) + . . .
+ ( rqui ) + ( o-\gt ; a-\gt ; ) + ( \lt ; ( 3(13 ) + . . .
+ where each corresponding pair of couplets on crossing obeys the above symbolic formula .
If two individuals , constituted as above , be crossed , they give a generation of hybrids .
If these hybrids now breed at random and are equally fertile among themselves , segregation takes place .
If the process of random mating with equal fertility be continued generation by generation , what further changes , if any , take place , and what are the laws of inheritance within such a population ?
This is the general problem I have set myself to attack by mathematical analysis .
I speak of it as a generalised theory of alternative inheritance ; it is based on a pure gamete conception .
It is not Mendelian in so far as it replaces his simple couplet by w-couplets , and supposes the character determined by these w-couplets and not a single couplet .
Further , it entirely dispenses with Mendel 's fundamental ideas of recessive and dominant characters .
To avoid .any such assumption I speak of the protogenic and allogenic couplets ( aa ) and ( AA ) .
I take VOL. LXXII .
2 O 506 Prof , K. Pearson .
Generalised Theory [ Sept. 11 , the character to be fixed in some way by the number of protogenic or allogenic couplets in the constitution of the individual zygote .
It would have been equally easy to fix it by the heterogenic couplets .
My object is to discover the chief features of heredity in a population breeding at random under a generalised system of pure gametes , and to determine how far the results are in accordance with the biometric experience of what happens in such populations .
I am quite aware that my theory , although far more general than Mendel 's , is not the most general which might be propounded .
A whole crop of Mendelian formulae have been proposed for isolated special cases by various writers .
But I venture to think that this has been done with a certain want of scientific responsibility .
Their authors do not seem to have realised that every such formula involves absolutely rigid laws for inheritance within a population mating at random , and that before such formulae are propounded , a research ought to be made as to what general laws of heredity flow from them and whether such laws are in accordance with existing experience .
The present memoir will indicate that to follow up one such general Mendelian theory requires a great deal of mathematical labour , and that in future the onus of testing the generality of a Mendelian formula propounded to account for some single hybridisation result ought to fall on its propounder .
What the present investigation does demonstrate is this , that the most general theory of the pure gamete hitherto developed leads to broad features of inheritance , which are in perfect accord with the biometric theory of inheritance in populations .
Nor , if this theory of the pure gamete were correct , is there anything to be surprised at in the result .
The biometric theory is purely a statistical description based upon experience and is not dependent upon any physiological hypothesis .
On the other hand , any physiological hypothesis applied to heredity must fall if it does not accord with the results obtained by observations on such populations .
( 2 ) .
Developing the theory described above we find:\#151 ; ( a ) .
That segregation occurs when the hybrids cross .
( \amp ; ) .
That when the members of this segregating generation cross at random the population accurately reproduces itself , and supposing no artificial , natural or reproductive selection to take place , a stable population or " race " is created , which is permanent and shows a permanent proportional frequency for each sub-class of the population .
There is no room for further segregation or for " mutations " as long as this state of affairs is maintained .
Any selection , however , would at once produce a progressive change in the population .
( c ) .
The regression of the offspring on any ancestor whatever is linear .
( d ) .
The ancestral correlations form a geometrical series .
The ' of Alternative Inheritance .
1903 .
] results ( a ) to ( d)involve what I have termed the law of ancestral heredity , which is thus seen to hold for a general population obeying the most general theory of the pure gamete hitherto developed mathematically .
( e).The distribution of the population itself follows a skew binomial law , which approaches closer and closer to the Gaussian distribution as we increase the number of couplets in the constitution of the zygote .
All these results are in broad agreement with what biometric investigations have shown us to hold for the inheritance and distribution of frequency in populations .
( 3 ) .
We now turn to points of divergence :\#151 ; ( / ) .
The parental correlation is 4 .
( g ) .
The ratio of diminution of ancestral correlation at each stage is ( h).The correlation between brothers is sensibly 0'4 .
One-third is the value originally given by Francis Galton for parental correlation ; | is the value of the ratio of ancestral diminution which really follows from his geometrical series -S .
, T\f , etc. , for ancestral contributions , and 0'4 is the corresponding value of fraternal correlation.* The generalised Mendelian theory thus fixes absolutely inheritance for all characters in all races , i.e. , inheritance is no function of the number of couplets determining the constitution .
These results , while in accordance with Galton 's original views , do not seem in accordance with more recent statistical observations on populations .
The value for parental correlation is not constant either for character or species ; it varies sensibly , and it clusters about a value 0'45 to O'5 , sensibly higher than the value above given .
The value for fraternal correlation is , indeed , somewhat larger than that for parental correlation , but it clusters about a value 0-5 to 0-6 , and is sensibly higher than the value 0'4 obtained from this Mendelian theory .
The values ir , tV\gt ; ~ii'i found for grandparental , great grandparental and great great grandparental correlations from this theory are all very sensibly less than the values actually obtained from observation .
The ratio of diminution is more nearly S than Hence , this Mendelian generalisation fails when we test it by actual numbers .
( 4 ) .
Points of theoretical divergence , not depending upon numerical measures , are the following : ( i ) .
If p be the number of allogenic couplets in the father , in the mother , the number mpq to be expected on the average in the offspring is given by m " = i(\gt ; !+ %\gt ; )(\#187 ; +2 ... ... ... ... ... . .
( i ) # 0*4 and not 2/ 3 as in " Natural Inheritance " is the value for fraternal correla tion which flows from Gralton 's hypothesis , see c Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 62 , p , 410 .
008- Prof. K ' Pear son .
Generalised Theory [ Sept 11f on the generalised pure gamete theory ; and by mm ** .
Tzn + ts ( P + U ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ( ii ) on the theory of linear regression .
In other words , regression holds for the great bulk of a Mendelian population , but grows gradually less as we treat the matings of nearly pure allogenic parents , ceasing entirely with absolutely pure allogenic parents .
When n = 5 , a mating between pure allogenic parents occurs only once in a million matings .
If we limit our attention to 99 per cent , of the population , even when n is comparatively small , we find regression on the mid-parent sensibly given by the Galtonian theory of the midparent , and when n is anything at all considerable , the Galtonian theory gives the value of the average offspring sensibly correct for 999 in 1000 of the population , becoming absolutely correct as n is indefinitely increased .
The theory of regression shows us that the planes ( ii ) are the best fitting planes to the hyperloloids ( i ) , and this fit becomes better and better as n becomes larger .
Except for very small values of it would probably be impossible to get an accurate test of the truth of the theory of the pure gamete by using formula ( i ) ; the errors of random sampling are for the great bulk of the population as large as the divergence between ( i ) and ( ii ) .
( j ) .
If a correlation table for parents and offspring be formed In a Mendelian population , while the regression will be real and linear , the variability of the number of allogenic couplets in the array of offspring due to a parent of definite allogenic constitution will steadily increase if we pass from the pure protogenic to the pure allogenic parent .
The mean variability of the arrays of offspring is equal to cr J(1 \#151 ; r2 ) , where cr is the variability of the general population , and the coefficient of parental correlation .
This mean value exactly agrees with that given by statistical theory .
But no one has hitherto observed this gradual change of variability in the arrays as we pass across a parental correlation table .
It is not very marked , especially when n is large , and may , perhaps , have escaped notice ; still one would be rather surprised if it had .
This change of variability of arrays of offspring seems to provide a method of finding n the number of .couplets in the constitution of the zygote .
This point will doubtless receive attention , and there is ample material already collected to test it upon .
( k ) .
The frequency of an array of offspring due to a given parent depends Upon the product of two skew binomials .
Whether there is approach to any skew ?
or normal curve , when n is increased has not yet been , investigated , but the deviation from normality exhibited would on the surface appear to be considerable , and such deviation would -be inconsistent with the approximately elliptic contour lines which have been noted by Galton in discussing human characters .
of Alternative Inheritance .
1903 .
] ( 5 ) .
To sum up : The memoir shows that any physiological hypothesis , such as a generalised theory of the pure gamete , is not a priori inconsistent with the broad conceptions of linear regression , parental correlation , ancestral influence , and with the distribution of frequency actually observed in populations .
The theory under discussion , indeed , leads to these results , and they have only escaped the Mendelians because they did not develop their formulae for the case of a population crossing at random , but confined their attention too much to the hybridisation of pure races , and to self-fertilising individuals .
On the other hand , there are marked numerical divergences between the results observed for populations and those deduced from the generalised theory of the pure gamete , which seem to definitely prevent its acceptance as a general theory of heredity .
It would be of very great value to have a physiological theory which would not only lead up to the general laws of inheritance\#151 ; involved in the principles of regression and of ancestral influence\#151 ; this is actually achieved by the present theory\#151 ; but which would also lead to numerical results in reasonable accord with experience .
Such a theory will , no doubt , be discovered in time , but the touchstone of its truth will be that it gives , not only a formula which does not vary from one simple case of crossing to a second , but also general principles and numerical values in accordance with those which have been observed for large populations , whether they breed at random , or exhibit homogenic tendencies .
I think we are justified in asking any future propounder of Mendelian formulae to apply this touchstone , and to remember that the statistical view of inheritance is not at basis a theory , but a description of observed facts , with which any physiological theory must be in accord .

