]\gt ; [ 77 ] V. On the Theory of Resonance .
the J. W. STRUTT , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , .
Communicated by .
SPOTTISWOODE , F.R. Received July \mdash ; Read Vovember 2 Introduction .
ALTHOUGH the theory of aerial vibrations has been treated by more than one generation of mathematicians and experime1ltels , comparatively little has been done towards obtaining a clear view of what goes on in any but the more simple cases .
The extreme difficulty of any thing like a general deductive investigation of the question is no doubt one leason .
On the other hand , experimenters on this , as on othel subjects , have too often observed and measured blindly without taking sufficient care to simplify the conditions of their experiments , so as to attack as few difficulties as possible at a time .
The result has been vast accumulations of isolated facts and measurements which lie as a sort of dead weight on the scientific stomach , and which must lemain undigested until theoly supplies a more powelful solvent than any now at our .
The motion of the air in cylindical organ-pipes was successfully invcstigated by and EULER , at least in its main features ; but their treatment of the question of the open pipe was incomplete , or even erroneous , on account of the assumption that at the open end the air lemains of invariable density the vibration .
attacked by many others , this difficulty was not finally overcome until HELIIHOLTZ , in a papel which I shall have repeated occasion to refer to , gave a solution of the under ccltain lestrictions , free from any arbitrary assumI ) tions as to what takes place at the open end .
POISSON and have solved the problem of the ations communicated to an infinite mass of air from the surface of a sphere or circular cylinder .
The solution for the sphere is very instructive , because the vibrations outside any ) enclosing vibrating bodies of any kind may be supposed to take .
rise in the surface of the sphere itself .
More impoltant in its relation to the subject of the paper is an ation by HELbIHOLTZ of the .-vibrations in cavel.nous spaces ( Hohtrau/ no ) , whose thrce dimcnsions are very small compared to the waye-length , and which communicate with the external atmosphere by small holes in their faces .
If the be circular of aren , and if denote the volume , the number of vibrations per second in the fundamental * Additions made since the paper was first sent to the Royal Society are enclosed in square brackcts Theory dcr in Rohren mit offenon Enden .
Crelle , ISGO .
Phil. Trams .
1868 , or Phil. Wag .
Dcc .
1868 .
note , and the velocity of sound , HELMHOLTZ'S theory is also applicable when there are roore openings than one in the side of the vessel .
In the present paper I have attempted to give the theory of vibrations of this sort in a more general form .
The extension to the case where the communication with the external air is no longer by a mere hole in the side , but by a neck of greater or less length , is important , not only because resonators with necks are frequently used in practice , but also by reason of the fact that the theory itself is applicable within wider limits .
The mathematical reasoning is very different from that of FIELIIHOLTZ , at least in form , and will I hope be found easier .
In order to assist those who may wish only for clear general ideas on the subject , I have broken up the investigation as much as possible into distinct problems , the results of which may in many cases be taken for granted without the rest becoming unintelligible .
In Part I. my object has been to put what may be called the dynamical part of the subject in a clear light , deferring as much as possible special mathematical calculations .
In the first place , I have considered the general theory of resonance for air-spaces confined nearly all round by ligid walls , and communicating with the external air by any number of sages which may be of the nature of necks or merely holes , under the limitation that both the length of the necks and the dimensions O the vessel are very small compared to the wave-length .
To prevent misapprehension , I ought to say that the theory applies only to the fundamental note of the resonators , for the ations corresponding to the overtones are of an ether different character .
There are , however , cases of multiple resonance to which our theory is applicable .
These occur when two or more vessels communicate with each other and with the external air by necks or otherwise ; and are easily treated by LAGRANGE'S general dynamical method , subject to a restriction as to the relative magnitudes of the wavelengths and the dimensions of the system corresponding to that stated above for a single vessel .
I am not aware whether this kind of resonance has been investigated before , either mathematically or experimentally .
Lastly , I have sketched a solution of the problem of the open -pipe on the same general plan , which may be acceptable to those who are not acquainted with HELMHOLTZ'S most valuable paper .
The method here adopted , though it leads to results essentially the same as his , is I think more calculated to give an insight into the real nature of the question , and at the same time presents fewer mathematical difficulties .
For a discussion of the solution , however , I must refer to HELMHOLTZ .
In Part II .
the calculation of a certain quantity depending on the form of the necks of common resonators , and involved in the results of Part I. , is entered upon .
This quantity , denoted by , is of the nature of a length , and is identical with what would be called in the theory of electricity the electric conductivity of the passage , supposed to be occupied by uniformly conducting matter .
The question is accordingly similar to that of determining the electrical resistance of variously shaped conductors\mdash ; an analogy of TIIE HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE THEORY OF which I have not hesitated to avail myself freely both in investigation and statement .
Much circumlocution is in this way avoided on account of the greater completeness of electrical phraseology .
Passing over the case of mere holes , which has been already considered by HELMHOLTZ , and need not be dwelt upon here , we come to the value of the resistance for necks in the form of circular cylindels .
For the sake of simplicity each end is supposed to be in an infinite plane .
In this the mathematical problem is definite , but has not been solved rigorously .
Two limits , howevel ( a higher and a lower ) , are investigated , between which it is proved that the true resistance must lie .
The lower corresponds to a correction to the length of the tube.equal to radius ) for each end .
It is a lemarkable coincidence that also finds the same quantity as an approximate colrection to the length of an organ-pipe , although the two methods are entirely different and neither of them rigorous .
His consists of an exact solution of the problem for an approximate cylinder , and mine of an approximate solution for a true cylinder ; while both indicate on which side the truth must lie .
The final result for a cylinder infinitely long is that the correction lies between and 828 R. When the cylinder is finite , the upper limit is rather smaller .
In a somewhat similar manner I have investigated limits for the lesistance of a tube of revolution , which is shown to lie between and where denotes the radius of the tube at any point along the axis .
These formulae apply whatever may be in other respects the form of the tube , but are especially valuable when it is so nearly cylindrical that is everywhere small .
The two limits are then very near each other , and either of them gives very approximately the true value .
The resistance of tubes , which are either not of revolution or are not nearly straight , is afterwards approximately determined .
The only experimental results bearing on the subject of this paper , and available for comparison with theory , that I have met with are some arrived at by SONDHAUSS* and WERTHEIM .
Besides those quoted by HELIIHOLTZ , have only to mention a series of observations by on the pitch of fiasks with long necks which led him to the empirical formula being the area and length of the neck , and the volume of the flask .
The corresponding equation derived from the theory of the present paper is * POGG .
Ann. vol. lxxxi .
Annals de Cmimie , vol. xxxi .
PoGC .
Ann. vol. lxxix .
which is only applicable , however , when the necks are so long that the corrections at the ends may be neglected\mdash ; a condition not likely to be fulfilled .
This consideration suffi ciently explains the discordance .
Being anxious to give the formula of Parts I. a fair tl.ial , I investigated experimentally thel:esonance of a considerable number of vessels which were of such a form that the theoretical pitch could be calculated with tolerable accuracy .
The result of the compalison is detailed in Part III .
, and appears on the whole very satisfactory ; but it is not necessary that I should describe it more minutely here .
I will only mention , as perhaps a novelty , that the experimental determination of the pitch was not made by causing the resonators to speak by a stream of air blown over their mouths .
The grounds of my dissatisfaction with this method are explained in the proper place .
[ Since this paper was wl.itten thel.e has appeared another memoir by Dr. SONDHAUSS* on the subject of resonnnce .
An formula is obtained bearing resemblance to the results of Parts I. and II .
, and fairly well with observation .
No attempt is made to connect it with the fundamental principles of mechanics .
In the Philosophical gazine for September 1870 , I have discussed the differences between Dr. SONDHAUSS'S formula and my own from the experimental side , and shall not therefore go any ther into the matter on the present occasion .
] PART I. The class of resonators to which attention will chiefly be given in this paper are those where a mass of air confined almost all round by rigid walls communicates with the external atmosphere by one or more narrow passages .
For the present it may be supposed that the boundary of the principal mass of air is part of an oval surface , nowhere contracted into any thin like a narrow neck , although some cases not coming under this description will be considered later .
In its general character the fundamental vibration of such an air-space is sufficiently simple , consisting of a periodical rush of air through the narrow channel ( if there is only one ) into and out of the confined space , which acts the part of a reservoir .
The channel spoken of may be either a mere hole of any shape in the side of the vessel , or may consist of a more or less elongated tubelike passage .
If the lineal .
dimension of the .
be small as compared to the wave-length of the vibration considered , or , as perhaps it ought rather to be said , the quarter wave- , the motion is remarkably amenable to deductive treatment .
Vibration in general may be considered as a periodic transformation of energy from the potential to kinetic , and from the kinetic to the potential forms .
In our case the kinetic energy is that of the air in the neighbourhood of the opening as it rushes backwards or forwards .
It be easily seen that relatively to this the energy of the motion inside the reservoir is , under the l.estriction specified , very smalL A formal proof would require the assistance of the general equations to the motion of an elastic fluid , whose use I wish to avoid in *POGG .
Ann. 1870 .
THB .
J. .
STBUTT ON THE THEOBy OF BESONANCE .
this paper .
Moreover the motion in the passage and its neighbourhood will not differ sensibly from that of an incompressible fluid , and its energy will depend only on the rate of total flow through the opening .
A quarter of a period later this energy of motion will be completely converted into the potential energy of the compressed or rarefied air inside the reservoir .
So soon as the mathematical expressions for the potential and kinetic energies are known , the determination of the period of vibration or resonant note of the air-space presents no difficulty .
The motion of an incompressible frictionless fluid which has been once at rest is sub- ject to the same formal laws as those which regulate the flow of heat or electricity through uniform conductors , and depends on the properties of the potential , to which so much attention has of late years been given .
In consequence of this analogy many of the results obtained in this paper are of as much interest in the theory of electricity as in acoustics , while , on the other hand , known modes of expression in the former subject will save circumlocution in .
some of the results of the present problem .
Let be the density , and the velocity-potential of the fluid motion an opening .
The kinetic energy or vis viva the ration extending over the volume of the fluid considered by GREEN'S .
theorem .
Over the rigid boundary of the opening or passage , , so that if the poltion of fluid considered be bounded by two equipotential surfaces , and , one on each side of the opening , vis if denote the rate of total flow through the opening .
At a sufficient distance on either side becomes constant , and the rate of total flow is proportional to the diffelence of its values on the two sides .
may therefore put where is a linear quantity depending on the size and shape of the , and representing in the electrical interpretation the reciprocal of the resistance to the passage of electricity the space in question , the specific resistance of the mattel being taken for unity .
The same thing may be otherwise expressed by is the side of a cube , whose resistance between opposite faces is the same as that of the opening .
The expression for the vis viva in terms of the rate of total flow is accordingly vis . . . . . .
( 1 ) If be the capacity of the reservoir , the condensation at any time inside it is given by , of which the mechanical value is , ( 2 ) denoting , as throughout the paper , the velocity of sound .
The whole energy at any time , both actual and potential , is therefore , ( 3 ) and is constant .
Differentiating with respect to time , we arrive at ( 4 ) as the equation to the motion , which indicates simple oscillations performed in a time Hence if denote the number of vibrations per second in the resonant note , .
( 5 ) The wave-length which is the quantity most immediately connected with the dimensions of the resonant space , is given by .
( 6 ) A law of SAVART , not nearly so well as it ought to be , is in agreement with equations ( 5 ) and .
( 6 ) .
It is an immediate consequence of the principle of dynamical similarity , of extreme generality , to the effect that similar vibrating bodies , whether they be gaseous , such as the air in organ-pipes or in the resonators here considered , or solid , such as tuning-forks , vibrate in a time which is directly as their linear dimensions .
Of course the material must be the same in two cases that are to be compared , and the geometrical similarity must be complete , extending to the shape of the opening as well as to the other parts of the resonant vessel .
Although the wave-length is a function of the size and shape of the resonatol only , or the position of the note iu the musical scale depends on the nature of the gas with which the resonator is filled .
And it is important to notice that it is on the nature of the gas in and near the opening that the note depends , and not on the gas in the interior of the reservoir , whose inertia does not come into play during vibrations corresponding to the fundamental note .
In fact we THB HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE TlfEOBY OF RESONANCE .
may say that the mass to be moved is the air in the neighbourhood of the opening , and that the air in the interior acts merely as a spring in virtue of its resistance to compression .
Of course this is only true under the limitation specified , that the diameter of the reservoir is small compared to the quarter wave-length .
Whether this condition is fulfilled in the case of any particular resonator is easily seen , a posteriori , by calcu- lating the value of from ( 6 ) , or by determining it experimentally .
Several Openings .
When there are two or more passages connecting the interior of the resonatol with the external air , we may proceed in much the same way , except that the equation of energy by itself is no longer sufficient .
For simplicity of expression the case of two passages will be convenient , but the same method is applicable to any number .
Let be the total flow through the two necks , constants depending on the form of the necks corresponding to the constanlt c in formula ( 6 ) ; then , the vis viva , is given by , the necks being supposed to be sufficiently far removed from one another not to interfere ( in a sense that will be obvious ) .
Furthel , Potential Energy Applying LAGRANGE'S general dynamical equation , \mdash ; we obtain ( 7 ) as the equations to motion .
By subtraction , or , on integration , . . . . .
( 8 ) Equation ( 8 ) shows that the motions of the air in the two necks have the same period and are at any moment in the same phase of vibration .
Indeed there is no essential distinction between the case of one neck and that of sevel.al , as the passage from one to the other may be made continuously without the failure of the investigation .
When , however , the separate passages are sufficiently far apart , the constant for the system , considered as a single communication between the interior of the resonator and the external air , is the simple sum of the values belonging to them when taken separately , which would not otherwise be the .
case .
This is a point to which we shall return later , but in the mean time , by addition of equations ( 7 ) , we find so that .
( 9 ) If there be any number of necks for which the values of are , . . . .
, and no two of which are near enough to interfere , the same method is applicable , and gives ; .
( 9 ) when thel.e are two similal necks , and The note is accordingly higher than if there were only one neck in the ratio of a fact observed by SONDHAUSS and proved theoretically by HOLMHOLTZ for the case of openings which are mere holes in the sides of the reservoir .
Double Resonance .
Suppose that there are two leservoirs , , communicating with each other and with the extelnal .
by narrow or necks .
If we were to consider as a single reservoil and to apply equation ( 9 ) , we should be led to an erroneous lesult ; for the l.easoning on which ( 9 ) is founded proceeds on the assumption that , within the l.eservoir , the inertia of the air may be left out of account , whel .
it is evident that the vis viva of the motion the connecting passage may be as great as through the two others .
However , an investigation on the same general plan as before meets the case perfectly .
by the total flows the three necks , we have for the vis the expression and for the potential energy THE HON .
J. W. STRUTT THE THEORY OF fANCE .
An application of LAGRANGE'S method gives as the differential equations to the motion , . . . . . . . .
( 10 ) By addition and integration Hence , on elimination of Assuming , we obtain , on substitution and elimination of . . . . .
( 11 ) as the equation to determine the resonant notes .
If be the number of viblations per second , , the values of given by ( 11 ) being of coulse both real and negative .
The formula simplifies considerably if ; but it will be mole instructive to work this case from the .
Let The diffel.ential equations take the Hence The whole motion may be regarded as made up Fig. of two parts , for the first of which ; which requires .
This motion is therefore the same as might take place wel.e the communication veen and cut off , and has its period given by IiDCCCLXXI THE HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
the other component part , , so that . . .
( 12 ) , which shows that the second note is the higher .
It consists of vibrations in the two reservoirs opposed in phase and modified by the connecting passage , which acts in part as a second opening to both , and so raises the pitch .
If the passage is small , so also is the difference of pitch between the two notes .
A particular case worth notice is obtained by putting in the geileral equation , which amounts to suppressing one of the communications with the extel.nal air .
We thus obtain ; or if If we further suppose or .
If be the number of vibrations for a simple resonator , ; It appears therefore that the interval from to is the same as from to , namely , , or rather more than a fifth .
It will be found that whatever the value of may be , the interval between the resonant notes cannot be less than , which is about an octave and a minor third .
The corresponding value of is 2 .
A similar method is applicable to any combination of reservoirs and connecting passages , no matter how complicated , under the single restriction as to the comparative magnitudes of the reservoirs and wave-lengths ; but the example just given is sufficient to illustrate the theory of multiple resonance .
In Part III .
a resonator of this sort will be described , which was constructed for the sake of a comparison between the theory and experiment .
In applying the formulae ( 6 ) or ( 12 ) to an actual measurement , the question will afise whether the volume of the necks , especially.when they are rather large , is to be included or not in S. At the moment of rest the air in the neck is comTHE HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE TREOBY OF pressed or rarefied as well as that inside the reservoir , though not to the same degree ; in fact the condensation must vary continuously between the interior of the esonator and the external air .
This consideration shows that , at least in the case of necks which are tolerably symmetrical , about half the volume of the neck should be included in S. [ In consequence of a suggestion made by Mr. CLERK RIAXWLLL , who leported on this paper , I have been led to examine what kind of effect would be produced by a deficient rigidity in the envelope which contains the alternately complessed and lalefied air .
Taking for simplicity the case of a sphere , let us suppose that the radius , instead of remaining constant at its normal value , assumes the magnitude .
We have kinetic potential energy where and are constants expressing the inertia and rigidity of the sphelical shell .
Hence , by LAGRANGE'S method , equations determining the periods of the two vibrations of which the system is capable .
It might be imagined at first sight that a yielding of the sides of the vessel would necessarily lower the pitch of the resonant note ; but this depends on a tacit assumption that the capacity of the vessel is largest when the air inside is most compressed .
But it may just as well happen that the opposite is .
Everything depends on the lelative magnitudes of the periods of the two vibrations supposed for the moment independent of one another .
If the note of the shell be very high compared to that of the , the inertia of the shell may be neglected , and this part of the question treated statically .
Putting in the equations , we see that the phases of X and are opposed , and then X goes through its changes mole slowly than before .
On the other hand , if it be the note of the air-vibration , which is much the higher , we must put , which leads to showing that the phases of X and gTee .
Here the period of X is diminished by the yieldin of the sides of the vessel , which indeed acts just in the same way as a second aperture would do .
A determination of the actual note in any case of a shell of given dimensions and material would probably be best obtained deductively .
Bnt in order to see what probability there might be that the of Part III .
on glass flasks were sensibly modified by a want of rigidity , I. thought it best to makc a direct experiment .
To the neck of a flask was fitted a glass tube of rathcl small bore , and the whole filled with water so as to make a kind of watel-therIllometer .
On TIE .
J. W. STIlU THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
removing by means of an air-pump the pressure of the atmosphere on the outside of the bulb , the liquid fell in the tube , but only to an extent which indicated an increase in the capacity of the flask of about a ten-thousandth part .
This corresponds in the ordinary arrangement to a doubled density of the contained air .
It is clear that so small a yielding could produce no effect on the pitch of the air-vibration .
] Open Organ-pipes .
Although the problem of open organ-pipes , whose diameter is very small compared to their length and to the wave-length , has been fully considered by HELMHOLTZ , it may not be superfluous to show how the question may be attacked from the point of view of the present paper , more especially as some important results may be obtained by a comparatively simple analysis .
The principal difficulty consists in finding the connexion between the spherical waves which diyerge from the open end of the tube into free space , and the waves in the tube itself , which at a distance from the mouth , amounting to several diameters , are plane .
The transition occupies a space which is large compared to the diameter , and in order that the present treatment may be applicable must be small compared to the wave-length .
This condition being fulfilled , the complessibility of the air in the space mentioned may be left out of account and the difficulty is turned .
a piston ( of infinitely small thickness ) in the tube at the place where the waves cease to be plane .
The motion of the air on the free side is entirely determined by the motion of the piston , and the vis viva within the space considered may be expressed by whele denotes the rate of total flow at the place of the piston , and is , as before , linear quantity .
on the form of the mouth .
If is the section of the tube and the velocity potential , The most general expression for the velocity-potential of plane waves is ( 13 ) sin ) where When THB .
J. W. STRUIT THE THEORY OF RES YANCE .
The variable part of the pressure on the tube side of the piston The equation to the motion of the air in the mouth is thel.efol.e or , on integration , .
( 14 ) This is the condition to be satisfied when Substituting the values of and , we which requires If there is a node at A ; .
( 15 ) This equation gives the fundamental note of the tube closed at ; but it must be observed that is not the of the tube , because the origin is not in the mouth .
There is , however , nothing indeterminate in the equation , the origin is to a certain extent arbitrary , for the values of and will ether so as to make the lesult for approximately constant .
This will appear more clearly when we come , in Part II .
, to calculate the actual value of for kinds of mouths .
In the formation of ( 14 ) the pressure of the air on the positive side at a distance from the origin small ainst has been taken absolutely constant .
Across such a loop surface no could be transmitted .
In reality , of course , the pressure is variable on account of the spherical waves , and energy continually escapes from the tube and its vicinity .
Although the pitch of the resonant note is not affected , it may be wol .
Ch while to see what correction this involves .
We must , as before , consider the space in which the transition from plane to sphcrical waves is effected as small compared with .
The potential in space may be taken , ( 16 ) expressing spherical waves diverging from the mouth of the pipe , which is the origin of The of is still supposed to lie in the region of plane waves .
rate of total flow across the sulface of the sphere whose radius is If the compression in the neighbourhood of the mouth is neglected , this must be the same as .
These equations express the connexion between the plane and spherical waves .
From the second , , which shows that is a small quantity of the order .
From the first AQ ' so that the terms of higher order being omitted .
Now within the space under consideration the air moves accolding to the same laws as electricity , and so Therefore on substitution and equation of the coefficients of , we obtain AQ When the mouth is not much contracted is of the order of the radius of the mouth , and when there is contraction it is smaller still .
In all cases therefore the term is very small compared to ; and we may put , ( 17 ) *Throughout HELMEOLTZ'S paper the mouth of the pipe is supposed to lie in an infinite plane , so that the diverging waves arc hemispherical .
The calculation of the value of is thereby simplified .
Except for this reason it seems better to consider th , diverging waves completely spherical as a nearer approximation to the actual circumstances of organ-pipes , although the sphere could never be quite complete .
THE HON .
J. W. ON THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
which agree nearly with the results of HELMHOLTZ .
In his notation a quantity is used defined by the equation so that by ( 15 ) , or ; may be considered as the correction to the length of the tube ( measured , however , in our method only on the negative side of the orjgin ) , and will be given by The value of will be investigated in Part II .
The original theory of open pipes makes the absolutely constant at the mouth , which amounts to negecting the inertia of the air outside .
Thus , if the tube itself were full of air , and the external space of hydrogen , the correction to the of the pipe might be ected .
The first investigation , in which no escape of energy is admitted , would apply if the pipe and a space round its mouth , large compared to the diameter , but small compared to the wave-length , were occupied by air in an atmosphere otherwise composed of incomparably lighter gas .
These remarks are made by way of explanation , but a complete discussion of the motion as determined by ( 13 ) and ( 17 ) .
I must lefel to the paper of HELMHOLTZ .
Tube in mexion with a It may sometimes happen that the length of a neck is too large compared to the quarter wave-length to allow the neglect of the compressibility of the air side .
cylindrical neck may then be treated in the same way as the organ-pipc .
potential of plane waves inside the neck may , by what has been proved , be put into the form ; if we neglect the escape of , which will not affect the pitch of the resonant note , where is the correction for the outside end .
The rate of flow out of Total flow the reduced length of the tube , including the corrections for both ends , denoted by L. Thus rarifaction in This is the condition to be satisfied at the inner end .
It gives . .
( 18 ) When is small , ; , . . . . . .
( 19 ) In comparing this with ( 5 ) , it is necessary to introduce the value of , which is ( 5 ) will accordingly give the same result as ( 19 ) if one-third of the contents of the neck be included in S. The first overtone , which is often produced by blowing in preference to the fundamental note , corresponds approximately to the of a tube open at both ends , modified to an extent which may be inferred from ( 18 ) by the finiteness of S. The number of vibrations is given by .
( 20 ) [ The application of ( 20 ) is rather limited , because , in order that the condensation within may be uniform as has been supposed , the linear dimension of must be considerably less than the quarter wave-length ; while , on the other hand , the method of proximation by which ( 20 ) is obtained from ( 18 ) requires that should be large in comparison with A slight modification of ( 18 ) is useful in finding the pitch of pipes which are cylindrical through most of their length , but at the closed end expand into a bulb of no great capacity .
The only change required is to understand by the length of the pipe down to the place where the enlargement with a corl.ection for the outer end .
Or if denote the length of the tube simply , we have and approximately .
If be small we may derive from THE HON .
J. W. STRLTTT THE THEORY OF In this form the interpretation is very simple , namely , that at the closed end shap is of no corfsequence , and only the volume need bc attended to .
The air in this part of the pipe acts merely as a , its inertia not coming into play .
A few measurements of this kind will be $iven in Part The overtones of resonators which have not long necks are usually very high .
Within the body of the reservoir a nodal surface must be formed , and the air on the fulther side vibrates as if it was contained in a completely closed vessel .
We may form an idea of the character of these vibrations from the case of a sphere , which may be easily worked out from the equations given b ofessor STOKES in his paper " " On the Communication of Motion from a vibrating Sphere to a Gas\ldquo ; * .
The most important vibration within a sphere is that which is expressed by the term of the first oldel in LAPLACE'S series , and consists of a swaying of the air from side to side like that )which takes place in a doubly closed pipe .
I find that for this vibration radius : wave-length so that the note is higher than that belonging to a doubly Glosed ( or open ) pipe of the length of the diameter of the sphere by about a musical fourth .
We might realize this vibration experimentally by attaching to the sphere a neck of such that it would by itself , when closed at one end , have the same resonant note as the sphere .
Lateral enings .
In most wind instruments the gladations of pitch are attained by means of lateral openings , which may be closed at pleasure by the or otherwise .
common crude theory supposes that a hole in the side of , say , a flute establishes so complete a communication between the interior and the surrounding atmosphere , that a loop or point of no condensation is produced immediately under it .
It has long been known that this theory is inadequate , for it stands on the ) level as the first approximation to the motion in an open pipe in which the inertia of the air outside the mouth is virtually ected .
Without goin at into.this question , I will merely indicate an improvement in the treatment of it may be made .
Let denote the velocity-potentials of the systems of plane waves on the two sides of the aperture , which we may suppose to be situated at the point .
Then with our previous notation the conditions evidently are that when the escape of energy from the tube being ected .
These equations determine the connexion between the two systems of waves in any case that may arise , and the wolking out is simple .
The results are of no pal .
Cicular interest , it be for a comparison with experimental measurements , which , so far as I am aware , have not hitherto been made .
] Irzs informs me that he had himself dono this at the request of the Astronomer Royal .
PART II .
In order to complete the theory of resonators , it is necessary to determine the value of , which occurs in all the results of Part I. , for different forms of mouths .
This we now proceed to do .
Frequent use will be made of a principle which might be called that of minimum vis viva , and which it may be well to state clearly at the outset .
Imagine a portion of incompressible fluid at rest within a closed surface to be suddenly set in motion by an arbitrary normal velocity impressed on the surface , then the actual motion assumed by the fluid will have less vis viva than any other motion consistent with continuity and with the boundary conditions* .
If be the component velocities , and 9 the density at any point , vis dxdydz , the integlation extending over the volume considered .
The minimum vis viva corresponding to prescribed boundary conditions depends of course on ; but if in any specified case we conceive the value of 9 in some places diminished and nowhere increased , we may assert that the minimum vis viva is less than before ; for there will be a decrease remain unaltered , and therefore , a fortiori , when they have their actual values as by the minimum property .
Conversely , an increase in 9 will necessarily raise the value of the minimum vis viva .
The intloduction of a rigid obstacle into a stream will always cause an increase of vis ; for the new motion is one that might have existed before consistently with continuity , the fluid displaced by the obstacle remaining at rest .
Any kind of obstruction in the air-passages of a musical instrument wilJ therefore be accompanied by a fall of the note in the musical scale .
Long Tubes .
The simplest case that can be consideled consists of an opening in the form of a cylindrical tube , so long in portion to its d.iameter that the corrections for the ends may be neglected .
If the length be and area of section , the electrical resistance is , and .
( 21 ) For a circular cylinder of radius .
( 22 ) Simple Apertures .
The next in order of simplicity is probably the case treated by HELMHOLTZ , where the opening consists of a simple hole in the side of the reservoir , considered as indefinitely thin and approximately plane in the neighbourhood of the opening .
uotion of the * TIIOMSON and TAIT'S 'Natural Philosophy , ' p. 230 .
HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
fluid in the plane of the opening is by the symmetry normal , and therefore the velocity-potential is constant over the opening itself .
Over the lemainder of the plane in which the opening lies the normal velocity is of course zero , so that may be arded as the potential of matter distributed over the opening only .
If the there constant value of the potential be called , the electrical resistance for one side only is the integration going over the area of the opening .
Now the whole quantity of matter ; so that if we call the quantity necessary to produce the unit potential , lesistance for one side Accordingly .
( 23 ) In electrical language is the capacity of a conducting lamina of the shape of the hole when situated in an open space .
For a circular hole , and therefore . . . . . .
( 24 ) When the hole is an ellipse of eccentricity and semimajor axis where is the symbol of the complete elliptic function of the first order .
Results equivalent to ( 23 ) , ( 24 ) , and ( 25 ) are given by HELMHOLTZ .
When the eccentricity is but small , the value of depends sensibly on the area of the orifice only .
As far as the square of , , ; , ( 26 ) the fourth power of being neglected\mdash ; a mula which may be applied without sensible error to any orifice of an approximately circular form .
In fact for a area the circle is the figure which gives a minimum value to , and in the bourhood of minimum the variation is slow .
Next , consider the case of two circular orifices .
If sufficiently far they act independently of each other , and the value of for the pair is the simple sum of the separate values , as may be seen either from the law of multiple arcs by considering as the electric conductivity between the outside and inside of the reservoir , or from the interpretation of in ( 23 ) .
The first method applies to any kind of openings with or without necks .
As the two circles ( which for precision of statement we may suppose equal ) approach one another , the value of dimimshes steadily until they touch .
The change in the character of the motion may be best followed by considering the plane of symmetry which bisects at right angles the line joining the two centres , and which may be l.egarded as a rigid plane precluding normal motion .
Fixing our attention on half the motion only , we recognize the plane as an obstacle continually advancing , and at each step more and more obstructing the passage of fluid through the circular opening .
After the circles come into contact this process cannot be carried further ; but we may infer that , as they amalgamate and shape themselves into a single circle ( the total area remaining all the while constant ) , the value of still continues to diminish till it approaches its minimum value , which is less than at the commencement in the ratio of .
Thele are very few forms of opening indeed for which the exact calculation of or can be effected .
We must for the be content with the formula ( 26 ) as applying to nearly circular , and with the knowledge that the more ated or broken up the opening , the greater is compared to .
In the case of similar orifices or systems of orifices varies as the linear dimension .
lindrical Most resonators used in practice have necks of greater or less length , and eyen where there is nothing that would be called a neck , the thickness of the side of the reeervoir could not always be neglected .
For simplicity we shall take the case of circular cylinders whose inner ends lie on an approximately plane part of the side of the vessel , and whose outer ends also supposed to lie in an infinite Fig. 4 .
plane , or at least a plane whose dimensions are considelable compared to the diameter of the cylinder .
Even under this form the problem does not seem capable of exact solution ; but we shall be able to fix two slightly differing quantities between which the true value of must lie , and which detelmine it with an accuracy more than sufficient for acoustical purposes .
The object is to find the vis viva in terms of the late of flow .
Now , according to the principle stated at the beginning of Part II .
, we shall obtain too small a vis viva if at the ends A and of the tube we imagine infinitely thin laminar of fluid of infinitely small derlsity .
We may be led still more distinctly pelhaps to the same result by supposing , in the electrical analogue , thin disks of perfectly conducting matter at the ends of the tube , whereby the resistance must plainly be lesscned .
The action of the disks is to produce uniform THE lION .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE THEORY OF potential over the ends , and the solution of the modified problem is obvious .
Outside the tube the question is the same as for a simple circular hole in an infinite plane , and inside the tube the same as if the tube were indefinitely long .
Accordingly resistance .
( 27 ) The colrection to the length is therefore , that is , each end , .
( 2S ) HELIIIIOLTZ , in considering the case of an olgan-pipe , arrives at a similar conclusion , \mdash ; that the correction to the length is approximately R. His method is vely from the above , and much less simple .
He begins by investigating certain forms of mouths for which the exact solution is possible , and then , by assigning suitable values to albitrary constants , identifies one of them with a the cylindel , the agreement being shown to be evelywhere very close .
Since the curve substituted for the line of the cylinder lies entirely outside it , HELMHOLTZ infels that the correction to the length thus obtained is too small .
If , at the ends of the tube , instead of layels of mattel of no density , ) pistons of no ensible thickness , we shall obtain a motion whose vis viva is necessarily than that of the real motion ; for the motion with the pistons take place without them consistently with continuity .
Inside the tube the character of the motion is the same as before , but for the outside we require the solution of a fresh problem:\mdash ; To detelmine the motion of an infinite fluid bounded by an infinite plane , the normal velocity over a circular area of the plane being a iven constant , and over the rest of the plane zero .
potential may still be legalded as due to matter to the circle , but is no constant over area ; but the density of matter at any point , being to or to the normal velocity , is constant .
The vis viva of the motion the integration oing over the area of the circle .
The rate of total flow through the plane ; .
( 29 ) ..THB HON .
J. W. ON THE THEORY OF , ]ONANCE .
We proceed to investigate the value .
of , which is the potenhal on itself of a cular disk of unit density .
Potential on itself of a uniform circular disk .
denoting the distance between any two points on the disk , the quantity to be evaluated is expressed by The first step is to find the potential at ny poin , or .
Taking this point as an of polar coordinates , we potential Now from the figure where is the distance of the point from the centre of the circle whose radius is R. Thus potential at .
( 30 ) Hence potential of disk on itself if for the sake of brevity we put In performing first the integration with respect to we come upon elliptic functions , but they may be avoided by changing the order of integration .
; . .
potential on itself .
( 31 ) This , , is the value when the density is supposed equal to unity .
The corresponding value of .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
and so from ( 29 ) . . . . . . .
( 32 ) This is for the space outside one end .
For the whole tube and both ends .
( 33 ) Whatever , then , may be the atio of , the electlical resistance to the in question or is limited by ( 34 ) In practical applicationit is sometimes convenient to use the quantity correction to the length .
In telms of becomes or in decimals , The corrections for both ends is the thing here denoted by .
Of end it is only necessary to take the half * .
I do not suppose that any experiments hitherto made with organ-pipes could minate with certainty between the ) yalues of in ( 34 ) .
If we adopt the mean pro- visionally , we may be sure that we are not wrong by so much as for each end .
Our upper limit to the value of explessed in was found by considering the hypothetical of a uniform velocity the section of the mouth , and we fully determined the non-lotational motion both for the inside and for the outside of the tube .
Of course the velocity is not really uniform at the mouth ; it is , indeed , infinite at the edge .
If we could solve the problem .
the inside and outside when the velocity ( normal ) at the mouth is of the fcrm , we should with a suitable value of 0 : a7 a much better approximation to the true vis viva .
The problem for the outside may be solved , but the inside it seems far from easy .
It is possible , however , that we not immcdiatcly comlected with our present subject , it may be worth noticc thnt if at the ccntro of the tube , or anywhere else , the velocity be constrained ( by a piston ) to be constant across the section , as it would approximately be if the tube were very , without a piston , the limiting inequalities ( 34 ) still hold good .
For large values of the two do not sensibly differ , but for small values of compared to the true solution of the original problem tends to coincide with the lower limit , and of the modified ( central piston ) problem with the higher .
THE HON .
J. W. ON THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
be able to find some motion for the inside satisfying the boundary conditions and the equation of continuity , which , though of a rotational chalacter , shall yet make the whole vis viva for the inside and outside together less than that previously obtained .
At the same time this vis viva is b law necessarily greater than the one we seek .
Motion in finite cylindrical tube , the axial ' at theplane ends and being where , ( 36 ) being the transverse coordinate , and the radius of the put equal to 1 .
If be the component velocities , the continuity equation is , . . . .
( 37 ) whence where is al.bitral.y so far as ( 37 ) is concerned .
Take so that , ( 38 ) It is clear from ( 38 ) that if ( 39 ) for all values of Thus ( 38 ) satisfies the boundary conditions including ( 35 ) , and is still arbitrary , except in so far as it is limited by .
In order to obtain an expression for the vis viva , we must integrate over the volume of the cylinder .
Ttvice vis ( 40 ) THE HON .
J. W. 8TBUTT ON THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
The second term vanishes in virtue of ( 36 ) , and we may write Twice vis , ( 40 ) where A and are known quantities depending on , and is so far an arbitrary function , which we shall determine so as to make the vis viva a minimum .
By the method of variations ; . . . . . . .
( 41 ) and in order to satisfy ( 39 ) , ( 42 ) ( 41 ) and ( 42 ) completely determine as a function of , and when this value of is used in ( 40 ) the vis viva is less than with any other form of .
On substitution in ( 40 ) , Twice vis .
( 43 ) The vis viva expressed in ( 43 ) is less than any other which can be derived from the equation ( 38 ) ; but it is not the least possible , as may be seen by substituting the value of in the stream-line equation which will be found to be not satisfied .
The next step is to introduce special forms of .
Thus let Then .
Accordingly ; and ( 43 ) becomes 2 vis .
( 44 ) We have in ( 44 ) the vis viva of a motion within a circular cylinder which satisfies the continuity equation , and which makes over the plane ends If we fall back on the simple case considered before ; and this is the value of for which the vis viva in ( 44 ) is a minimum ared to the rate of flow .
But for the part outside the cylinder the vis viva is , as we may anticipate , least when has some finite value ; so that when we consider the motion as a whole it will be a finite value of that gives the least vis viva .
The vis viva of the motion outside the ends is to be found by the same method as before , the first step being to determine the potential at any point of a circular disk whose density ; potential at where ; potential at ; or if previously to integration with respect to we add together the elements from to Now PQ .
Thus potential at , being written for , R. To this must be added the potential for a uniform disk found previously , and the result must be multiplied by the compound density and integrated again over the area , the order of integration being changed as before so as to take first the integration with respect to .
In this way elliptic functions are avoided ; but the process is too long to be given here , particularly as it presents no difficulty .
The result is that the potential on itself of a disk whose density is expressed by .
CLERK wznn has pointed out a process by which this result may be obtained much more simply .
Begin by finding the potential at the edge of the disk whose density is .
Taking polar coordinates the pole being at the edge , we have and the limits of being and oos , and those of .
being - .
We get onoe TIIIE HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THB THEORY OF RESONANCE .
Thus iffor brevity we put , we may express the vis of the whole motion ( both extremities included ) by 2 vis , which corresponds to the rate of flow .
Thus , ( 46 ) where The second fraction on the right of ( 46 ) is next to be made a minimum by variation of .
Putting it equal to and multiplying up , we get the following quadratic in The smallest value of consistent with a real value of is therefore given by Thus ( 47 ) This gives an upper limit to .
In terms of ( including both ends ) ( 47 ) From ( 47 ) we see that the limit for is smallest when , and gradually increases with Now let us cut off a strip of breadth from the edge of the disk , whose mass is accordingly The work done in carrying this strip off to infinity is .
If we gradually pare the disk down to nothing and carry the parings to infinity , we find for the total work by integrating with respect to from to , being written for .
This is , as it should be , the half of the expression in the text .
] THE HON .
J. W. ON THB THEORY or RESONANCE .
When , it becomes R. Thus the correction for one end of an infinite tube is limited by ( 48 ) When is not infinitely great the upper limit may be calculated from ( 47 ) , the lower limit remaining as before ; but it is only for quite small values of that the exponential terms in ( 47 ) are sensible .
It is to be remarked that the real value of is least when , and gradually increases to its limit when .
For consider the actual motion for any finite value of .
The vis viva of the motion going on in any middle piece of the tube is greater than corresponds merely to thelength .
If the piece therefore be removed and the ends brought together , the same motion may be supposed to continue without violation of continuity , and the vis viva wiJl be more diminished than corresponds to the length of the piece cut out .
A fortiori will this be true of the real motion which would exist in the shortened tube .
Thus steadily decreases as the tube is shortened until when it coincides with the lower limit R. In practice the outer end of a rather long tube-like neck cannot be said generally to end in an infinite plane , as is supposed in the above calculation .
On the contrary , there could ordinarily be a certain flow back round the edge of tube , the effect of which must be sensibly to diminish .
It would be interesting to know the exact value of for an infinite tube projecting into unlimited space free from obstructing bodies , the thickness of the cylindrical tube being regarded as vanishingly small .
HELMHOLTZ has solved what may be called the corresponding problem in two dimensions ; but the difficulty in the two cases seems to be of quite a different kind .
Fortunately our ignorance on this point is not of much consequence for acoustical purposes , because when the necks are short the hypothesis of the infinite plane agrees nearly with the fact , and when the necks are long the correction to the length is itself of subordinate importance .
Nearly Cylindrical Tubes of The non-rotational flow of aliquid in a tube of revolution or of electricity in a similar solid conductor can only in a few cases be exactly determined .
It may therefore be of service obtain formulae fixing certain limits between which the vis viva or resistance must lie .
First , considering the cpse of electricity ( for greater simplicity of expression ) , let us conceive an indefinite number of infinitely thin but at the same time perfectly conducting planes to be introduced perpendicular to the axis .
Along these the potential is necessarily constant , and it is clear that their presence must lower the resistance of the conductor in question .
Now at the point ( axial coordinate ) let the radius of the conductor be , so that its section is .
The resistance between two of the abovementioned planes which are close to one another and to the point will be in the limit THE HON .
J. W. BUTT ON THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
105 , if be the distance between the planes , the resistance of the unit cube being unity .
resistance . . . . . . . . .
( 49 ) Upper Secondly , we know that in the case of a liquid the true vis viva is less than that of any other motion which satisfies the boundary conditions and the equation of continuity .
Now being the axial and transverse velocities , it will always be possible so to determine as to satisfy the conditions if we assume constant over the section , and therefore .
( 50 ) This may be seen by imagining rigid pistons introduced perpendicular to the axis .
To determine it is convenient to use the function , which is related to and according to the equations ( 37 ) , These forms for and secure the fulfilment of the continuity equation .
Since and therefore .
But since cannot be infinite on the axis , but must , on the contrary , be zero , and we have ( 51 ) From the manner in which these were obtained , they must satisfy the condition of is easy to show formally that no error can arise from neglecting the effect of the curved rim .
Imagine planes at and extended , and the curves in which they cut the surface of the conductor projected by lines parallel to the axis .
In this way a cylinder is formed which contains the whole surface between and , and another cylinder which is entirely contained by the surface .
The small cylinder may be obtained by supposing part of the matter not to conduct , and therefore gives too great a resistance .
On the other hand , the real solid may be obtained from the large cylinder by the same process .
The resistance of the slice lies accordingly between those of the two cylinders which are themselves equal in the limit .
Hence , on the whole , the parts neglected vanish compared to those retained .
] 106 THE HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE TfflORY OF ONANCE .
giving no normal motion at the surface of the tube .
That this is actually the case may be easily verified a posteriori , but it is scarcely necessary for our purpose to do so .
To find the vis viva , Thus vis The total flow across any section is Therefore .
( 52 ) is the quantity which gives an upper limit to the resistance .
The first term , which corresponds to the component of the velocity , is the same as that previously obtained for the lower limit , as might have been foreseen .
The difference between the two , which gives the utmost error involved in taking either of them as the true value , is In a nearly cylindrical tube is a small quantity , and so the result found by this method is closely approximate .
It is not necessary that the section of the tube should be nearly constant , but only that it should vary slowly .
The success of the approximation in this and similar cases depends in great measure on the fact that the quantity to be estimated is a minimum .
Any reasonable approximation to the real motion will give viva very near the minimum , according to the principles of the differential calculus .
Application to straight tube of revolution whose end lies on two infinite planes .
For the lower limit to the resistance we have being the radii at the ends , and for the higher limit .
THE HON .
J. W. ON THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
The first expression is obtained by supposing infinitely thin but perfectly conducting planes perpendicular to the axis to be introduced from the ends of the tube inwards , while in the second the conducting planes in the electical interpretation are replaced by pistons in the hydrodynamical analogue .
For example , let the tube be part of a cone of semivertical angle The lower limit is , and the higher Tubes nearly straight and cylindrical but not necessarily of revolution .
Taking the axis of in the direction of the length , we readily obtain by the same process before a lower limit to the resistance , ( 53 ) where denotes the section of the tube by a plane perpendicular to the axis at the point , an expression which has long been known and is sometimes given as rigorous .
The conductor ( for I am now referring to the electrical interpretation ) is conceived to be divided into elementary slices by planes perpendicular to the axis , and the resistance of any slice is calculated as if its faces were constant potentials , which is of course not the case .
In fact it is meaningless to talk of the resistance of a limited solid at all , unless with the understanding that certain parts of its surface are at constant potentials , while other parts are bounded by non-conductors .
Thus , when the resistance of a cube is spoken of , it is tacitly assumed that two of the opposite faces are at constant potentials , and that the other four faces permit no escape of electricity across them .
In some cases of unlimited conductors , for instance one we have already contemplated\mdash ; an infinite solid almost divided into two separate parts by an infinite insulating plane with a hole in it\mdash ; it is allowable to speak of the resistance without specifying what particular surfaces are regarded as equipotential ; for at a sufficient distance from the opening on either side the potential is constant , and any surface no part of which approaches the opening is approximately equipotential .
After this explanation of the exact significance of ( 53 ) , we may advantageously modify it into a form convenient for practical use .
The section of the tube at different points of its length is obtained by observing the length of a mercury thread which is caused to traverse the tube .
Replacing the integration by a summation denoted by the symbol , we arrive at the formula resistance , ( 54 ) which was used by Dr. NIATTHIESSEN in his investigation of the mercury unit of electrical * resistance , and was the subject of some controversy* .
It is perfectly correct in the sense that when the number of observations is increased without limit it coincides with ( 53 ) , itsetf , however , an approximation to the magnitude sought .
The extension of our second method ( for the higher limit ) to tube not of revolutionwould require the general solution of the potential problem in two dimensions .
It may be inferred that the difference between the two limits is of the order of square of the inclination of the tangent plane to the axis , and is therefore very small when the section of the tube alters but slowly .
Tubes not nearly straight .
In applying ( 53 ) to such cases , we are at liberty to take any straight line we please as axis ; but if the tube is much bent , even though its cross section remain nearly constant , the approximation will cease to be good .
This is evident , because the planes of constant potential must soon become very oblique , and the section used in the formula much greater than the really effective section of the tube .
To meet this difficulty a modification in the formula is necessary .
Instead of taking the artificial planes of equal potential all perpendicular to a straight line , we will now take them normal to a culve which may have double curvature , and which should run , as it were , along the middle of the tube .
Consecutive planes intersect in a straight line passing through the centre of curvature of the " " axis\ldquo ; and perpendicular to its plane .
The resistance between two neighbouring equipotential planes is in the limit where is the angle between the planes , and is the distance of any element of the * See SABINE'S ' Electric Telegraph , ' p. 329 .
To prove ( 54 ) , we have resistance , and constant , say , But volume and The correction for the ends of the tube employed by is erroneous , being calculated on the supposition that the divergence of the current takes place from the curved surface of a hemisphere of radius equal to that of the tube .
This is tantamount to assuming a constant potential over the solid hemisphere conceived as of infinite conductivity , and gives of course a result too small\mdash ; R for both ends together .
The proper correction , which probably is not of much importance , would depend somewhat upon the mode of connexion of the tube with the terminal cups , but cannot differ much from ( for both ends ) , as we have seen , ( I have since found that aware of the small error in this correction .
THE lfON .
J. W. THE THEORY OF $ section from the line of intersection of the planes .
Now , if be the intercept on the axis between the normal planes , and 9 the radius of curvature at the point in question .
The lower limit to the resistance is thus expressed by .
( 55 ) In the particular case of a tube of revolution such as an ring ) is a constant , and the limit which now coincides with the the resistance varies as the length of the axis , and is eyidently independcnt of its position .
In the value of the integral will depend on the axis used , but it is in evely case less than the true value of the l.esistance .
In choosing the axis , the object is to make the artificial planes of constant potential agree as nearly as possible with the true equipotential surfaces .
A still further generalization is possible by taking for the artificial sul.faces those lepresented by the equation const .
For all systems of surfaces , with one exception , the resistance found on this assumption will be too small .
The exception is of course the surfaces const .
coincide with the undisturbed equipotential surfaces .
The element of lesistance between the sulfaces and is here d is the distance betlveen the surfaces at the ncnt d , and the tion goes over the sulface as far as the edge of the tube .
; limit to lesistance , ( 5C ) all expression whose remains when is ittcn for F. If so that the surfaces sphol.cs , ; limit This form would be suitable for approximately conical tubes , the vertex of the cone being taken as origin of NDCCCLXX I. The last formulae , ( 55 ) and ( 56 ) , are perhaps more elaborate than is required in the present state of acoustical science , and it is rather in the theory of electricity that their interest would lie ; but they present themselves so readily as generalizations of previous lesults that I hope that they are not altogether out of place in the present paper .
In all these cases we have the advantage that the quantity sought is determined by a minimum property , and is therefore subject to a much smaller error than exists in the conditions which detelmine it .
PART III .
Experimental .
The object of this Part is to detail some experiments on resonators instituted with a view of comparing some of the formulae of Parts I. and II .
with observation .
HOLTZ in his paper on olgan-pipes has compared his own theory with the experiments of SONDHAUSS and for the case of resonators whose communication with the external atmosphere is by simple holes in their sides .
The theoretical result is embodied in ( 5 ) and ( 23 ) , or for circular holes ( 24 ) and runs , ; ( 57 ) or when the alea of the opening is circular and of magmtude ( 58 ) On calculation HELMtIOLTZ finds the of length metrical .
The empirical formula found by DHAUSS is which agrees completely with theory as regards its form , but not so well in the value it assigns to the constant multiplier .
The difference corresponds to more than a semitone , and is in the direction that the observed notes are all too low .
I can only think of two explanations for the discordance , neither of which seem completely satisfactory .
In the place , SONDHAUSS determined his resonant notes by the pitch of the sound produced when he blew obliquely across the opening through a piece of pipe with a flattened end .
It is possible that the proximity of the pipe the opening was such as to cause an obstruction in the air-passage which might sensibly lower the pitch .
Secondly , no account is taken of the thickness of the side of the vessel , the effect of which must'be * The velocity of sound is taken at the freezing-point ; otherwise the discordance would be greater .
THE HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE THEORY OF ANCE .
to make the calculated value of too great .
On the othel hand , two sources of error must be mentioned which would act in the opposite direction .
The air in the vicinity of the opening must have been sensibly warmer than the external atmosphere , and we saw in Part I. how qensitive resonators of this sort must be to small changes in the physical properties of the gas which occupy the air-passages .
Indeed SAVART long ago remarked on the instability of the pitch of short PiPes , comparing them with ordinary organ-pipes .
The second source of disturbance is of a more recondite character , but not , I think , less real .
It is proved in works on drodynamics that in the steady motion of fluids , whether compressible not , an increased velocity is always accompanied by a diminished pressure .
In the case of a gas the dimimshed pressure entails a diminished density .
There seems therefore every reason to expect a diminution of density in stream of air which plays over the orifice of the resonator , which must cause a rise in the resonant note .
But independently of these difficulties , the theory of pipes or othel resonators made to speak by a stream of air directed against a sharp edge is not sufficiently understood to make this method of investigation satisfactory .
For this reason I have entirely abandoned the method of causing the resonators to speak in my experiments , and have relied on other indications to fix the pitch .
The only other experiments .
that I have met with on the subject of the present paper are also by , who has been very successful in unravelling the complications of these phenomena without much help from theory* .
For flasks with long necks he found the formula as applicable when the necks are cylindricaI and not too , corresponding to the theoretical , . . . .
( 59 ) obtained by combining ( 5 ) and ( 21 ) , or , in numbers with metricnl units , The discrepancy is no doubt to be attributed ( at least in great measure ) to the omission of the correction to the length of the neck .
In the experiments about to be described the pitch of the resonator was determined in various ways .
Some of the larger ones had short tubes fitted to them which could be inserted in the ear .
By trial on the piano or organ the note of maximum resonance could be fixed without difficulty , probably to a quarter of a semitone .
In most of the expeliments a grand piano was used , whose middle was in almost exact unison with a fork of 256 vibrations per second .
Whenever the harmonic undertones were also used as a check on any slight difference which might be possible in quality of consecutive notes .
Indeed the determination was genel.ally easier by means of the * Pogg .
Ann. .
lxxxi .
first undertone ( the octave ) , or even the second ( the twelfth ) , than when the actual note of the resonator was used .
The explanation is , I believe , not so much that the overtones belonging to any note on the piano surpass in strength the fundamental tone , although that is quite possible* , as that the ear ( or rather the attention ) is more sensitive to an increase in the strength of an overtone than of the fundamental .
However this may be , there is no doubt that a little practice greatly exalts the power of observation , many persons on the first trial being apparently incapable of noticing the loudest resonance .
Another plan very convenient , though not to be used in measurements without caution , is to connect one end of a piece of india-rubber tubing with the ear , while the other .end is passed into the interior of the vessel .
In this way the resonance of any wide- mouthed bottle , jar , lamp-globe , \amp ; c. may be approximately determined in a few seconds ; but it must not be forgotten that the tube in through the air-passage acts as an obstruction , and so lowers the pitch .
In many cases , however , the effect is insignificant , and can be allowed without difficulty .
For large resonators this method is satisfactory , but in other cases is no longer available .
I have , however , found it possible to determine with considerable precision the pitch of small flasks with long necks by simply holding them rather close to the wires of the piano while the chromatic scale is sounded .
The resonant note announces itself by a quivering of the body of the flask , easily perceptible by the fingers .
Since it is not so easy by this method to divide the interval between consecutive notes , I rejected those flasks whose pitch neither exactly agreed with any note on the piano nor exactly halved the interval .
In some cases it is advantageous to sing into the mouth , taking cale not to obstruct the passage ; the resonant note is recognized partly by the tremor of the flask , and partly by a peculiar sensation in tlJe throat or , hard to localize or describe .
The precision obtainable in any of these ways may seem inferior to that reached by sevelal experimenters who have used the method of causing the resonators or pipes to speak by a stream of air .
That the apparent precision in the last case is greater I of course fully admit ; for any one by means of a monochord could estimate the pitch of a continuous sound within a smaller limit of error than a quarter of a semitone .
But the question arises , what is it that is estimated ?
Is it the natural note of the resonator ?
I have already given my reasons for doubting the affirmative answel ; and if the doubt is well grounded , the greater precision is only apparent and of no use theoretically .
I may add , too , that many of the flasks that I used could not easily hay been made to speak by .
If they sounded at all it was more likely to be the first overtone , which is the note rather of the neck than the flask : see equation ( 20 ) .
In carrying out the measurements of the quantities involved in the formula , the volume of the flask or reservoir was estimated by filling it with water halfway up the neck , which was then measured , or in some cases weighed .
The measurements of the neck were made in two ways according to the length .
Unless very short their capacity was measured by water , *In this respect pianos , even by tho same maker , differ greatly .
The black renc tubing , about inch in external diameter , is the pleasantest to use .
THE HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
and the expression for the resistance ( 54 ) in a simplified form was used .
The formula for then runs , . . . .
( 60 ) When , on the other hand , the necks were short , or simply holes of sensible thickness , the following formula was used , . . .
( 61 ) being the ladii or halves of the diametels as measured at each end .
It is scal'cely necessary to say that the estimation of pitch was made in ignolance of the theoretical result ; otherwise it is almost impossible to avoid a certain bias in .
the intelyal between the consecutive notes .
TABLE I. In Table I. the first column gives the number of the xperiment , the second the volume of the reservoirs , including half the necks , the third the volume of the necks themselves , the fourth their lengths , and the fifth their l.adii measured , when necessary , at both ends .
In the sixth column is given the of vibrations per second calculated from ( 60 ) , the velocity of sound being taken at1123 feet second , to F. , about the temperature of the room in which the pitch was detelmined .
was inally estimated an octave too low , so that the number in the Table is the double of what put down as the result of observation .
THE HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE IHEORY OF ] Column 7 contains the values of estimated by means of the pianoforte , while is given for convenience the discrepancy between the observed and calculated values expressed in parts of a mean semitone .
1 , 2 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 12 were glass flasks with well-defined nearly cylindrical necks , the body of the flask being approximately spherical .
Of these 1 and 2 had small tubes cemented into them , which were inserted in the ear ; the pitch of the restwas estimated mainly by their quivering to the resonant note .
and 10 were globes intended for burning phosphorus in oxygen gas , and .
pitch was fixed principally by the help of the india-rubber tube passed through the neck .
A good ear would find no difficulty in identifying the note produced when the body of the globe is struck with the soft part of the hand .
The agreement is I think very satisfactory , and is certainly better than expected , having regard to the difficulties in the urements of pitch and of the dimensions of the flasks .
The average error in Table I. is about a quarter of a semitone , and the maximum error less than half a semitone .
It should be remembered that there is no arbitrary constant to be fixed as best suits the observations , but that the calculated value of is entirely determined by the dimensions of the resonator and the velocity of sound .
If a lower value of the latter than 1123 were admissible , the agreement would be considerably improved .
TABLE II .
Table IL contains the results of the comparison between theory and observation for a number of resonators whose necks were too short for the convenient of the volume .
The length and diameter were measured with care and used in formula TBE HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE THEORY OF RESONANCE .
( 61 ) .
In 9 , 13 , 14 the reservoir consisted of the body of a flask whose neck had been cut off close , and which was fitted with a small tube for insertion in the ear .
In 9 and 13 there was a short glass or tin tube fitted into the opening* , while in 14 the mouth was covered ( air-tight ) with a piece of sheet gutta percha pierced by a cork borer ; 11 was a small globe treated in the same way .
15 to 22 were all experiments with a globe of a moderatol-lamp , which also had a tube for the ear , one opening being closed by a piece of plate glass cemented over it .
Sometimes a little water was poured in for greater convenience in determining the pitch , whence the slightly differing values of S. In 15 the opening was clear , and in 16 fitted with a brass tube ; in 17 it was covered with a gutta-percha face , in 18 , 19 , 21 with a wooden face bored by a centre-bit , and in 20 with a piece of tin plate carrying a circular hole ; 22 contains the result when the other opening of the globe was used clear .
On inspection of Table II .
it appears that the discrepancy between theory and observation is decidedly greater than in Table I. , in fact about double , whether we consider the maximum or the mean error .
The cause of some of the large errols may , I think , be traced .
13 had necks of just the length for which the colrection may not be quite applicable .
A decided flow back round the edge of the outer end must take place with the effect of diminishing the value of .
In order to test this explanation , piece of millboard was placed over the outer end of the tube in 16 to lepresent the infinite plane .
A new estimation of , as honest as possible , gave , which would considerably diminish the error .
I fancied that I could detect a decided diffelence in the resonance according as the millboard was in position or not ; but when the theoetical result is known , the difficulty is great of making an independent observation .
In 15 and 22 , where the apertures of the globe were used clear , the error is , I believe , due to an insufficient fulfilment of the condition laid down at the commencement of this paper .
Thus in 15 the wave-length feet ; or feet , which is not large enough compared to the diameter of the globe ( 6 inches ) .
The addition of a neck lowers the note , and then the becomes more certainly applicable .
It may perhaps be thought that the observations on resonance in Tables I. and II .
do not extend over a sufficient range of pitch to give a verification of a general formula .
It is true that they are for the most part confined within the limits of an octave , but it must be remembered that if the theory is true for any resonant air-space , it may be extended to include all similar air.spaces in virtue of SAVART'S law alone\mdash ; a law which has its foundations so deep that it hardly requires experimental confirmation .
If this be admitted , thelange of comparison will be seen to be really very wide , including all proportions of and R. When the pitch is much higher or much lower than in the Tables , the experimental difficulties are increased .
For much lower tones the ear is not sufficiently sensitive , while in the case of the higher tones some of the indications relied on to fix the pitch are no longer available .
* Gutta percha softened in hot water is very useful for temporary of this sort .
THE HON .
J. W. STRUTT ON THE THEORY OF RfflSONANCE .
Some experiments were next made with the modelatol globe and two openings .
The theoretical formulae are TABLE III .
' In 23 both holes of the globe were clear , and in 24 , 25 they were covel.ed with wooden faces carrying holes of various diameters .
The error in 23 , 24 is to be ascribed to the same cause as in 15 and 22 above .
The last experiment that I shall describe was made in older to test the theory of doubIe resonance , but is not quite satisfactory , for the same reason as 15 , 22 , 23 , 24 .
Two moderator globes were cemented together so as to form two chambers communi cating with each other and with the extelnal air .
The natural openings were used clear , and the resonance ( which tvas not very good ) was estimated by means of a tube con the ear with one of them .
The observations gave for the values of note Low note The result of calculation from the dimensions of the ) erlobes and openings by means of formulae of Parts I. and Ir .
was High note Low note The error in the high note is about a semitone .
[ The two modelator globes were fitted up again as a double resonator , only with Oled wooden disks over the holes , so as to lower the note and render the more strictly applicable .
The pitch much better defined than before , and gaYe Low note High note ; THE HON .
J. W. SIRUIT ON THE TlfEORY OF RESONANCE .
Thus The agreement is now very good .
One of the outer holes was stopped with a plate of glass .
The resonance of the high note was feeble though well defined ; that of the low was rather loud but badly defined .
The high was put at 225 low , , 90/ Calculating from these data , we get The agreement is here much better than was expected , and must be in part fortuitous .
I will now detail two experiments made to verify the formula marked .
A moderator chimney was plugged at the lower end with gutta percha , through which passed a small tube for appliaeation to the ear .
The bulb was here represented by the enlargement where the chimney fits on to the lamp .
On measurement , inches , inches , Thus ; from this the value of was calculated by the trigonometrical tables .
Finally , As the result of observation had been estimated at 252 .
In another case , by observation The result of calculation is .
These are the only two instances in which I have tried the formula .
It is somewhat troublesome in use , but appears to represent the facts very closely ; though I do not pretend that the above would be average samples of a large series .
There is no necessity for the irregularity at the lower end taking the form of an enlargement .
For example , the formula might be applied to a truly cylindrical pipe with a ball of solid material resting at the bottom .
] I had intended to have made these experiments more complete , particularly on multiple resonance , but have not hitherto had time .
However , the results tained seem quite sufficient to establish a substantial agreement between theory and fact .
It should be understood that those here presented are not favourable specimens selected out of a large number , but include , with one exception , all the measurements attempted .
There are many kinds of bottles and jars , and among them some of the best resonators , which do not satisfy the fundamental condition on which our theory rests .
The deductive treatment of the problem in such cases presents great difficulties of a different kind from any encountered in this paper .
Until they are surmounted the class of resonators referred to are of no use for an exact comparison between theory and observation , though they may be of great service as aids to investigation in other directions .

