]\gt ; Prof. Sir W. Thomson on Calculating IV .
" " On an Instrument for calculating , the gral of the Product of two given Functions .
By Prof. Sir W. THOMSON , .D .
, .
Received January 28 , 1876 .
In consequence of the recent mceting of the British Association at Bristol , I resumed an nttempt to find an instrument which should spersede the heavy arithmetical laboul of the integrals required to analyze a function into its simple harmonic constituents according to the method of Fourier .
During many yeitrs previously it had appeared to me that the object to bc accomplished by some simple mechanical ; but it not until lecently that I succeeded in devising an instrument appronchiug sufficiently to simplicity to practically useful results .
at this , I described my proposed machine a few ago to my brother ofessor James Thomson , andhe described to me in returll kind of integratol which had occurred to him many yeal 's , but of which he had nevel published description .
I instantly saw that it me a much simpler means of ining my special object than ) thing 1 had been nble to think of iously .
Ah account of his is to the Royal Society along with the prescllt paper .
To lculate , the rotating ' is to be from ) inifial position through an anglc equal the rolling globe is moved so as to be at a distance from ifs zero position equal to .
This being done , the cylinder obviotlsly turns through an augle equal to , and thus solves the One way of .
the required motions to the otating disk androlling globe is as follows:\mdash ; On two pieces of the .
Attach these pieoes of to the circmnfercnce of two ders , to diflerent ) of the circumference of one cylinder , with the axis of in each in the direction perpendic there to the axis of the cylinder .
Let the cylinders ( if there are two ) be geared together so as that their ciroumfel'cnces shall move with eq } elocities .
ched to the work let there be , cIose to circumference of cylinder , a slide or guide-rod to yuide a point , moved by the hand of an so as to touch the cmwe on the of the cylinder , vu'hile the two cylinders are moved rouud .
Two will be lcquired , ) could not move the two points so to fulfil this all events unless the mobion were ] of these points , by ) mechnmsm , giyes !
876 .
] the Product of two given Functions .
motion to the rotating disk to its linear motion , the there a motion equal to its to the centre of the rolling ; lobe .
The mftchine thus desoribed is immediately applicable to caloulate the alues , \amp ; c. of the hnrmonic constituents of a function the splendid tion of 's simple harmonic analysis , which himseIf iu his solutions for the conduction of heat in the phere and the cylinder , and which worked out so ably and beauti:ully by Poisson* , and by Sturm and Liouville in their memorable papers this subject published in the first volume of Liouville 's ' Journal des lfathematiques .
' Thus if be the expression for an function , in terms of the generalized larmonic functions , , , \amp ; c. , these functions bein such - , hat , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. In the tions of this the integl constitute he denominators of for , \amp ; c. to be evaluated in fillite terms by an extension of Fouriel..S formula for of his problcm the made by Sturm in cquiLtion ( 10 ) , Siv .
of his sir tUle Class in 's Journal , .
( lS36 ) .
The in the tors are cuhted ith .
ease by of the in the manner descril ) The ctical use of be fo perfor1u the lysis for ] , meteorologicnl , and perhaps even astrouomical tions .
It is the in ; JIis generAl demonslration of tho of the roots of { equations esseutinl to this exccedingly inlportnt stCP i Ilcc from FourlCl.'S the do la Philomnlhique ' for , is ncrd i. do dc .
lotating disk in the proper period , when the cylinder bearing curve moves uniformly , supersedes the necessity for a with the curve traced on it , and an operator keeping a poir vays on this curve in the manner described above .
Thus one operator will be enough to calry on the process ; and I believe that in the appB .
tion of it to the tidal harmonic an lysis he will be able in an hour to find by aid of the machine any one of the simple harmonic ele ments of a year 's tides recorded in curves in the usual manner by ordinary tide-gauge\mdash ; a result which hitherto has required not less that twenty hours of calculatiou by skilled arithmeticians .
I believe th$ instrument will be of great also in determining the diurnal , diurnal , -diurnal , and qunrtel-diurnal ituents of the daily tions of temperature , bnrometric pressure , and west components the velocity of the wind , north and sollth components of the same ; of the three components of the terrestrial magnetic force ; also of the elec tric potential of the air the point where the stream of water breaks in4 drops in the ntmospheric electrometers , and of other subjects of meteorological or gnetic observations ; also to estimate precisely the variation of terrestrial magnetism in the eleven years sun-spot period , of sun-spots themselves in this period ; also to disprove ( or prove , as the case may be ) supposed relations between sun-spots and planetary posi .
tions and conjunctions ; also to investigate lunar inlluence on the height of the barometel , and on the components of the terrestrial magnetic force , and to find if lmlal .
influence is sellsible on any other meteorological phenomena\mdash ; and if so , to determine precisely its character and amomlt .
From the description above it will be seen that the nism required for the instrument is simple easy .
It ccuracy will depcnd csscntially on the of the circular cylindel , of the globe , and of the plane of the rotating disk used in it .
For each of the three surfnces a much less elaborate tion of the method of scraping that by which Sir Joseph Whitworth has given a truc ) lane ith such marvcllous will no doubt suff1ce for the qnirclnents of the insfrumeut now posed .

