Major L. Darwin .
On the Method of [ June 2 , I. " On the Method of Examination of Photographic Objectives at the Kew Observatory .
" By Major L. Darwin .
Communicated by Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received April 13 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The paper describes the method of examination of photographic objectives which has been adopted at the Kew Observatory , chiefly on the recommendation of the author .
In selecting and devising the different tests , Major Darwin acted in co-operation with Mr. Whipple , the Superintendent of the Observatory , and was aided by consultations with Captain Abney .
The object of the examination is to enable any one , on the payment of a small fee , to obtain an authoritative statement or certificate as to the quality of an objective for ordinary purposes ; the .
amount of time that can be devoted to each experiment is therefore strictly limited .
An example is first given of a " Certificate of Examination " snch as would be obtained from Kew , and then the different tests are discussed in detail .
Many of them are done by well-known methods , which need not here be mentioned .
For the greater part of the examination , an apparatus called the testing camera " is employed , and this is fully described in the paper .
The following are the different items in the Certificate of Examination , including the various tests to which the objective is subjected , or the subjects about which information is given :\#166 ; \#151 ; ( 1 .
) to ( 4 .
) Under these headings are given a description of the objective , the date of receipt , the size of the plate for which the objective is to be examined , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. None o.f this information forms part of the result of the testing .
( 5 .
) Number of Reflecting Surfaces of the Lenses .
( 6 .
) Gentering in Mount .
( 7 .
) Visible Defects , such as Veins , Feathers , Sfc .
( 8 .
) Flare Spot .
( 9 .
) Effective Aperture of Stops , which is given for each one supplied with the objective .
In recording the results , it is proposed that the system of numbering recommended by the International Photographic Congress of Paris of 1889 should.be adopted .
( 10 .
) Angle of Gone of Illumination , 8jC.\#151 ; Under this heading several useful items of information are given , such as the extreme angle of .
the field which is illuminated by the objective without reference to definition ; the angle of field which is inquired to cover the plate of the size for which the objective is being examined ; and , the lai'gest stop of which the whole opening can be seen from the PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
June 2 , 1892 .
The Animal Meeting for the Election of Fellows was held this day The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read , General Clerk and Mr. Crookes were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
The votes of the Fellows present were then collected , and the following candidates were declared duly elected into the Society : Armstrong , Robert Young , Lieut.-Col. R.E. Beddard , Frank Evers , M.A. Fleming , Professor John Ambrose , D.Sc .
Foster , Professor Clement Le Never , D.Sc .
Gadow , Hans , M-A .
, Ph. D. Giffen , Robert , LL. D. Gotch , Professor Francis , M.A. , M.R.C.S. Herdman , Professor William Abbott , D.Sc .
Hutton , Capt. Frederick Wollaston .
Joly , John , M.A. Larmor , Joseph , D.Sc .
Miall , Professor Louis C. Peach , Benjamin Never , F.R.S.E. Peddler , Professor Alexander , F.I.C. Waller , Augustus D. , M.D. Thanks were given to the Scrutators .
June 2 , 1892 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; VOL. Lil .
B

