105 On a new Method oj viewing the Chromosphere .
January 9 , 1873 .
WILLIAM SHARPLY , M.D. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; 1 .
" On a new Method of viewing the Chromosphere .
" By J. N. Lockyer , F.R.S. , and G. M. Sea broke .
Received No .
vember 6 , 1872 .
The observations made by slitless spectroscopes during the eclipse of Dec. 11 , 1871 , led one of us early this year to the conclusion that the most convenient and labour-saving contrivance for the daily observation of the chromosphere would be to photograph daily the image of a ring-slit , which should be coincident with an image of the chromosphere itself .
The same idea has since occurred to the other .
We therefore beg leave to send in a joint communication to the Royal Society on the subject , showing the manner in which this kind of observation can be carried out , remarking that , although the method still requires some instrumental details , which will make its working more perfect , images of the chromosphere , almost in its entirety , have already been seen on several days during the present month and the latter part of last month .
The adaptation of this method to a telespectroscope will be seen at a glance from the accompanying drawing .
Diaphragm showing annulus , the breadth of which may be v iried to suit the state of the air .
A. Sliding eye-tube of telescope .
B. Tube screwing into eye-tube .
C. Tube sliding inside B , and carrying lens D and diaphragm E. F. Lenses bringing image of diaphragm to a focus at the place generally occupied by the slit of the spectroscope G. Collimator of spectroscope .
The image of the sun is brought to focus on a diaphragm having a circular disk of brass ( in the centre ) of the same size as the sun 's image , so that the sun 's light is obstructed and the chromospheric light is allowed to pass .
VOL. XXI .
K 106 On a new Method of viewing the Chromosphere .
[ Jan. 9 , The chromosphere is afterwards brought to a focus again at the position usually occupied by the slit of the spectroscope ; and in the eyepiece is seen the chromosphere in circles corresponding to the " C " or other lines .
The lens D is used to reduce the size of the sun 's image , and keep it of the same size as the diaphragm at different times of the year ; and the lenses F are used in order to reduce the size of the annulus of light to about i- inch , so that the pencils of light from either side of the annulus may not be too divergent to pass through the prisms at the same time , and that the image of the whole annulus may be seen at once .
There are mechanical difficulties in producing a perfect annulus of the required size , so one ^ inch in diameter is used , and can be reduced virtually to any size at pleasure .
The proposed photographic arrangements are as follows :\#151 ; A large Steinheil spectroscope is used , its usual slit being replaced by the ring one .
A solar beam is thrown along the axis of the collimator by a heliostat , and the sun 's image is brought to focus on the ring-slit by a 3f-inch object-glass , the solar image being made to fit the slit by a suitable lens .
By this method the image of the chromosphere received on the photographic plate can be obtained of a convenient size , as a telescope of any dimensions may be used for focusing the parallel beam which passes through the prisms on to the plate .
The size of the image of the chromosphere obtained by the method adopted will be seen from the accompanying photograph , taken when the ring-slit was illuminated with the vapours of copper and cadmium .
As this photograph is not reproduced , it may be stated that the ring-images have an internal diameter of nearly f- of an inch .
December 6 , 1872 , at 11.30 .
December 7 , 1872 , at 11.30 .
Outer circle 100 from inner one .
Chromosphere at normal height , except where prominences marked .
1873 .
] Dr. R. J. Lee on the Sense of Sight in Birds .
The accompanying solar profiles are copies of drawings made , on the dates stated , by means of the new method , which were exhibited by the authors at the Meeting .
[ Since reading the above paper , it has come to our knowledge that Zollner had conceived the same idea unknown to us , but had rejected it .
Prof. Wenlock in America has tried a similar arrangement , but without success.\#151 ; J.N. L. , Gr .
M. S. , January 17 , 1873 .
] II .
" Further Remarks on the Sense of Sight in Birds .
" By Robert James Lee , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Robert Lee , M.D. , F.R.S. Received October 14 , 1872 .
It was the object of my last communication to show the necessity for more extensive researches into the differences of certain structures in the eyes of birds in order to arrive at satisfactory conclusions regarding their functions , which are still undecided by anatomists .
It also appeared to me to be desirable and interesting to examine the different degrees of development which characterize those structures in different species of birds , as they seemed to afford an explanation of the remarkable powers of vision which most birds possess .
It would be premature to enter upon general deductions until the data we possess are more numerous and the anatomical details are generally allowed to be correct .
Since my last communication it has been my privilege to receive much assistance and valuable information from Mr. Hulke , who has directed considerable attention to the structure of the ciliary muscle in birds .
It appears to me impossible to reconcile the various opinions which Briicke , Cramer , Donders , and particularly Heinrich Miiller entertain on anatomical details , except on the supposition that the exact species of bird has not been considered of sufficient importance to the question , also that the particular method of dissection or preparation may have been the cause of a different appearance in the minute structures .
In my own experience I have often found that singular differences are produced by the method of preparation ; and it has usually been necessary , where there was any doubt , from the eye having been preserved for some time , to wait till a fresh specimen could be obtained .
In order to show the different degrees of development of the ciliary muscle , a short Table has been drawn up , containing those specimens which have been examined with most attention .
For the present I shall consider the ciliary muscle as a simple structure for the production of one effect , whatever minute differences may exist in the internal arrangement of its fibres .
The second Table may be regarded as a continuation of that commenced in my last communication , and is intended to furnish certain data which are necessary for the determination of the visual powers in various species of birds .

