Observation of the Summer Solstice , 1812 , at the Royal Observatory .
By John Pond , Esq. Astronomer Royal , F.R.S. Read November 12 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 27 .
] Since a minute description of the new circular instrument , which has been lately put up at Greenwich , is intended to be given to the Society as soon as it is completed in every respect , the Astronomer Royal takes no further notice of its construction than is necessary to show by what means the results of his observations of the sun at the last solstice was obtained .
In other instruments , which take their point of departure from a plumb-line or level , the zenith distance of the sun is the primary object of investigation ; and the polar distance of the sun , which is the ultimate object , is obtained by adding the co-latitude of the place , which completes the entire arc .
But by the mural circle at Greenwich , to which there is neither level nor plumb-line , the total arc may be measured without any exact knowledge of the zenith point ; and the co-latitude , which in all other cases it is so essential to know correctly , becomes an object of mere curiosity , rather than of real necessity .
It is , however , convenient to assume some imaginary point near the zenith , the position of which , with respect to the fixed stars , may be determined within one tenth of a second ; and from this imaginary point Mr. Pond measures the distances of the sun southward , and of the pole northward , as the best means of obtaining the entire arc ; but he also adds a computation of the same solstitial place of the sun , as obtained by direct measurement from the pole without the aid of his imaginary intermediate point , and the difference is found to be only 0-15 of a second .
In the determination of this arc , it is evident that , however accurately it may have been mechanically determined , it must still be subject to whatever uncertainty remains with regard to astronomical refraction .
As the Astronomer Royal has not been in possession of the instrument a sufficient length of time for deducing the real quantity of refraction from his own observations , he has hitherto employed those of Dr. Bradley , which have been many years in use at the Royal Observatory ; but he observes , that any alteration which may be hereafter found necessary , may easily be made as correction to the above observations .

