442 Voltaic Energy of dissolved Chemical Compounds .
[ Mar. H , chemical changes produced by light in aqueous solutions .
The degree of freedom of an aqueous solution of chlorine from hydrochloric acid and of iodine from hydriodic acid was determined much more readily by means of the " voltaic balance " method than by ordinary chemical analysis .
Ill " Relative Amounts of Voltaic Energy of dissolved Chemical Compounds .
" By Gr .
Gore , F.R.S. Received January 16 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) In this investigation the author has measured , by means of the " voltaic balance , " the amounts of relative voltaic energy or of chemical affinity for zinc , of nearly 250 aqueous solutions of dissolved chemical compounds , at ordinary atmospheric temperatures .
The substances include compounds of elements with elements ; elements with monobasic , bibasic , and tribasic acids ; acids of all these classes with each other ; elements with monobasic , bibasic , tribasic , and tetrabasic salts ; monobasic , bibasic , and tribasic acids with all these classes of salts ; and all these classes of salts with each other in great variety .
The method employed has been already described ( see 4 Roy .
boc .
Proc. , ' vol. 44 , pp. 181 , 294 ) , and he offers the results thus obtained as additional evidence in support of the conclusion , that " every electrolytic substance or mixture when dissolved in water unites chemically indefinite proportions by weight with every other such dissolved , provided no separation of substance occurs ; " and that " there may probably be discovered thousands of such compounds , whichj^B exist whilst in aqueous solution , and are decomposed on evaporating or crystallising their solutions .
" The present research has shown t e existence of nearly 250 .
^ The formulae of the compounds , together with the amounts energy , are arranged in the form of a table as a volta tension seiies electrolytes , commencing with 1 + 01 , which gives a plus 11001 + 11,686,507 , and ending with 2(H3N + KH0 ) + ( K2C03+Na2 * ' which gives a minus one of \#151 ; 959,817 .
The whole of the agree with the ordinary chemical equivalents of the substances .

