450 Prof. P. M. Duncan on Guynia annulata .
[ May 4 , [ From a general recollection of a conversation I had with Sir W. Thomson before the presentation of his paper , I do not imagine his object to have been exactly what the Astronomer Royal here describes , but partly the saving of trouble in numerical calculation , partly the exhibition , for each separate observation of altitude at a noted chronometer time , of precisely what that observation gives , neither more nor less , which introduces at the same time certain facilities for the determination of a ship 's place by a combination of two observations .
Of course the place so determined is liable to an error east or west corresponding to the unknown error of the chronometer j and doubtless , under ordinary circumstances , this forms the principal error to which the determination of a ship 's place is liable .
This remains precisely as it did before ; and it is hard to suppose that the mere substitution of a graphical for a purely numerical process could lead a navigator to forget that he is dependent upon his chronometer , though perhaps the general tone of Sir W. Thomson 's paper might render an explicit warning desirable , such as that which Mr. Airy supplies.\#151 ; G. G. Stokes .
] May 4 , 1871 .
Sir PHILIP GREY-EGERTON , Part .
, Vice-President , in the Chair .
In conformity with the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; William Henry Besant , M.A. William Bud , M.D. George William Callender , F.R.C.S. William Carruthers , Esq. Robert Etheridge , F.R.S.E. Frederick Guthrie , B.A. John Ilerschel , Capt. R.E. Alexander Moncrieff , Cnpt .
M.A. Richard Quain , M.D. Carl Scborlemmer , Esq. Edward Thomas , Esq. Edward Burnet Tylor , Esq. Cromwell Fleetwood Varley , C.E. Arthur Viscount Walden , P.Z.S. John Wood , F.R.C.S. The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Structure and Affinities of Guynia annulata , Dune .
, with Remarks upon the Persistence of Palaeozoic Types of Ma-dreporaria .
" By P. Martin Duncan , M.B. Lond. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in King 's College , London .
Received March 16 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The dredging-expedition which searched the sea-floor , in the track of the Gulf-stream of 1868 , yielded , amongst other interesting Madreporaria , a form which has been described by Count Pourtales under the name of 1871.1 Dr. A. Schrauf on Molybdates and Vanadates of Lead .
451 Haplophyllia paradoxa , and which was decided by him to belong to the section Rugosa .
The last expedition of the * Porcupine , ' under the supervision of Dr. Carpenter , F.R.S. , and Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys , F.R.S. , obtained , off the Adventure Bank in the Mediterranean , many specimens of a coral which has very remarkable structures and affinities .
The species is described under the name of Guynia annulata , Dune .
The necessity of including it amongst the Rugosa and in the same family , the , as Haplophyllia paradoxa is shown .
Having this proof of the persistence of the rugose type from the Palseozoic seas to the present , the affinities of some so-called anomalous genera of Midtertiary and Secondary deposits are critically examined .
The Australian tertiary genus Conosmilia , three of whose species have strong structural resemblance with the is determined to be allied to the Stauridce , and especially to the Permian genus The Secondary and Tertiary genera with hexameral , octomeral , or tetrameral and decameral septal arrangements are noticed , and the rugose characteristics of many lower Liassic and Rhetic species are examined .
The impossibility of maintaining the distinctness of the Palseozoic and Neozoic coral-faunas is asserted ; and it is attempted to be proved that whilst some rugose types have persisted , hexameral types have originated from others , and have occasionally reverted to the original tetrameral or octomeral types , and that the species of corals with the confused and irregular septal members so characteristic of the lowest Neozoic strata descended from those Rugosa which have an indefinite arrangement of the septa .
The relation between the Australian Tertiary and recent faunas , and those of the later Palseozoic and early Neozoic in Europe , is noticed , and also the long-continued biological alliances between the coral-faunas of the two sides of the Atlantic Ocean .
II .
" On the Molybdates and Vanadates of Lead , and on a new Mineral from Leadhills .
" By Professor Dr. Albert Schrauf , of Vienna .
Communicated by ProfessorW .
H. Miller , For .
Sec. R.S. ( Translated from the Author 's Manuscript by Count A. Fr. Marschall .
) Received March 9 , 1871 .
In 1825 * , Professor Wohler published the analysis of a rare variety of pyromorphite from Leadhills , which he describes as an aggregation of very diminutive , orange-red hexagonal crystals , fixed on cerussite .
The normal constituents of pyromorphite are mixed in them with small quantities of iron and arsenic .
Professor Wohler having ascertained the existence of vanadate of lead only five years later ( 1830 ) , and the presence of partly * PoggendorfFs Ann. vol. iv .
p. 169 .

