1884 .
] On the Function of the Thyroid Gland .
II .
" On the Function of the Thyroid Gland .
" By Professor Victor Horsley , B.S. , M.B. , F.R.C.S. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received December 5 , 1884 .
( Preliminary Communication .
) Up till the year 1883 the function of the thyroid gland was unknown , and considered to be of slight importance , at least to the adult animal .
The theories concerning its function were\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The one propounded by Mr. Simon , " Phil. Trans. , " 1844 , \amp ; c. , viz. , that the thyroid body acted as a regulator of the circulation in the brain , and possibly manufactured some substance which was of primary importance for the nutrition of the central|nervous system .
( 2 .
) That it was a true gland , and secreted a mucinous albuminoid into the cavities of its acini , the secretion being reabsorbed by the lymphatics .
( 3 .
) The thyroid gland has also from time to time been compared to the spleen as an hsemapoietic organ .
Although the intimate relationship of goitre to cretinism has been well known for many centuries , the fact that excision of the partially goitrous thyroid in comparatively healthy people was followed by severe symptoms of cretinism was first announced last year by Professor Kocher , of Berne , who collected 160 cases in which the operation had been partially or wholly performed .
In the latter class of his own cases he found the patients , without exception , had become cretinous .
The symptoms described by Kocher were recognised by Dr. Semon* as similar to those of Myxoedema , and he advanced the theory that the conditions were allied .
My experiments have proved the truth of this view , since I have produced the condition of myxoedema by simply excising ( with strict antiseptic precautions and operating so as to avoid all nerve trunks ) the thyroid gland in the monkey .
Schiff in Geneva , Wagner in Vienna , and Sanquineco and Canalis in Turin , have made similar experiments on dogs , but they do not appear to have found the myxcedematous condition ; simply , it appears , because , for one reason or another , their animals did not survive the operation long enough to develop the pathological changes .
However , they show that in the dog careful ablation of the thyroid gland is followed by severe nervous symptoms , which commence a few hours , or days , after the operation , by fibrillar contractions and * " Brit. Med. Jour .
, " Nov. 30 , 1883 .
[ Dec. 11 , 6 Prof. Victor Horsley .
tremors in all the muscles of the body .
These tremors soon become clonic spasms , and ultimately paroxysms of true tetanus , as a result of which the animal dies a few days after the operation .
It is clear then that in dogs the thyroid gland has an intimate connexion with the central nervous system .
In the monkey , excision of the thyroid , just as in the dog , may be followed immediately by fibrillar contractions of the muscles of the extremities , but , as a rule , the animal remains perfectly well for five days . .
The tremor at its first appearance is uniform , and has a wave rate of 8\#151 ; 10 per second .
In forty-eight hours , as a rule , it becomes paroxysmal , i.e. , exhibits recurring exaggerations , the paroxysms being of variable duration and interval , but giving a new character to the tracing , owing to the powerful movements of the limbs , \amp ; e. The uniform tremor persisting between the paroxysms now has , as a rule , a wave rate of 16 to 20 per second .
These symptoms persist , as a rule , about twenty days ; they then decline , the paroxysms disappearing slowly , but ceasing before the constant tremor .
During the whole of this time there is rigidity and paresis* of the muscles affected .
Moreover , the symptoms of the disease termed Myxoedema by Dr. Ord , and ordinary cretinism are gradually developed .
For\#151 ; The animal becomes gradually more and more imbecile and apathetic , sitting , as it does , huddled up and taking no notice of anything , in strong contrast to its customary vivacious state .
It exhibits swellings of the skin of the face , abdomen , \amp ; c. , due to infiltration of the tissues by mucin .
( This change , visible to the naked eye , has been chemically established by my friend Dr. Halliburton , B.Sc. , whose results are published in accompanying table .
) The salivary glands become - enormously hypertrophied , and the parotid gland , which normally secretes a watery , serous fluid , now takes up a muciparous function , f and produces quantities of mucin .
This increase of function is interesting , as probably offering a clue for further investigation into the physiology of secretion .
The blood is profoundly changed : there is a decrease of red corpuscles , and a primary increase of the leucocytes , followed by a decrease , oligsemia thus resulting .
Moreover , it contains mucin in proportion to the duration of life after the operation , and the serum albumin is diminished .
' * Sometimes almost total paralysis of the extensor muscles .
t Microscopic investigation shows the cells of the parotid to be swollen by mucinogen ( ?
) and rapidly disintegrating.\#151 ; 14th December , 1884 .
1884.1 On the Function of the Thyroid Gland .
The temperature , slightly raised by the operation , becomes variaole , and then after about twenty-five days , gradually sinks far below the normal , and the animal dies comatose .
It is proved by examination of the parts that in the operation the thyroid gland only was removed , the surrounding structures being uninjured ; consequently the thyroid gland may now be looked upon as being of extreme importance in the animal economy , and especially in relation to three points\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The nutrition of the nervous system .
( 2 .
) The existence of mucin in the body .
( 3 .
) The composition of the blood .
The practical surgical question as to whether the cretinous symptoms following thyroidectomy are due to\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Chronic asphyxia , as believed by Kocher ; ( 2 .
) Injury of the sympathetic and other nerve trunks ; ( 3 .
) Arrest of function of the thyroid gland ; is almost settled in favour of the third view , and with it also the pathology of Myxcedema .
3rd December , 1884 .
Analysis of Tissues ( Monkey ) Healthy and after Thyroidectomy .
By Dr. W. D. Halliburton , B.Sc. Amount of Mucin per 1000 parts of the tissue .
Normal .
Skin and subcutaneous tissue .
Tendon .
Muscle .
Parotid gland .
Submaxillary gland .
Blood .
No. la .
Healthy monkey ( killed ) .
.89 .39 0 # 0 No. 9 .
j ) \#187 ; \#187 ; .
.9 .5 0 0 *01 0 Abnormal , after Thyroidectomy .
No. 1 lived 55 days ... .
3 12 2-55 0 .72 6*0 .35 " 3 " 32 " * .
" 5 " 49 , , 2*3 2-4 trace 1\7 3 3 trace .08 " 10 , , 7 \#187 ; . . . .
0 . . . .
merest trace The tissues were minced finely , and kept under alcohol for one week ; the mucin then was dissolved out by baryta-water and reprecipitated by acetic acid .
The precipitate from known weights of tissue was thoroughly washed , and then dried at 100 ' C. , to give the quantitative result .
The chemical research was carried out in the Physiological Laboratory of University College , London .

