]\gt ; Distribution of in Space .
The analysis of these mixtures was carried out in the Balliol and inity Laboratory , Oxford , by permission of Messrs. Nagel and Hartley , to whom I am much inciebted for their kind help and advice .
I also take this opportunity of expressing my grateful thanks to Principal H. A. Miers and to Prof. Bowman for the helpful criticism and dvice they have given me throughout the course of this research .
On thoe bility of a Distribntion of the Stars in Space .
By F. W. , F.R.S. ( Received July 9 , 1910 .
) In a recent paper*Prof .
Pearson obtains the following results:\mdash ; ( i ) If when denotes the parallax of a star , and be the standard deyiabion , ' square root of the mean square devi tion of a series of values of from the mean ; theJl , for a uniform distribution of stars in space , ( ii ) If be the mean magnitude of all stars down to and those of magnitude , then , and 1 .
The first of these results is compared with the values of , obtained from a list of 72 parallaxes of stars given in Newcomb 's ' The Stars : A Study of the Universe , ' and with those of 163 stars given in 'Trans .
Yale Univ. Observatory , ' Vol. II .
For Newcomb 's stars and for the Yale stars , The inference that these stars are not evenly distributed in space may be obtained more easily .
the Yale stars there ( ' Trans. Yale Univ. Observatory , ' Vol. II , p. 200-)\mdash ; 17 stars with parallax to and 30 , , , , , , With a uniform distribution , or 136 stars , may be expected to parallaxes from to , if there are 17 with parallaxes from to ; and a larger number than 136 between limits and ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 84 , pp. 47\mdash ; 70 .
370 Improbability of Distribution of the Stars in But no inferences can be drawn from these figures as to the distribution of the stars in general .
These particular stars were selected for observation largely on account of their great proper motions .
This criterion was successful in leading to the discovery of 17 very near stars .
2 .
The formulae , and , are immediately deducible from the proposition that for a uniform distribution of stars , and assuming no absorption of light , the total number of stars down to magnitude is given by In this well-known formula , is the ratio of ' the amount of received from two stars which differ by one nitude .
A formal proof of the fomlula may be given as follows:\mdash ; Let be the number of stars contained in unit volume , of magnitude 7 ' or hter , as seen from unit distance .
A thin spherical shell of radius will contain of such stars .
Now if a star is of magnitude at unit distance , its magnitude at distance is .
Thus equals the number of in the shell which , seen from the centre , appear to be of nitude Therefore the total number of stars down to nitude m is given by .
Thus , where Therefore 3 .
Writing this in the form or ; and , similarly , Thus Prof. Pearson 's formulae follow directly from the law and no assumption is made with to the form of .
The assumption is , however , made that the stars extend to infinity and that there is no absorption of light in space .
4 .
Now in the table quoted by Prof. earson from the ' Harvard Annals , ' the numbers of stars as far as nitude 7 roughly agree with the formula Conditions for Discontinuous Motion in .
371 from which and are deducible , values which with those found by Prof. Pearson .
5 .
It does not seem to me that 's catalogue of double stars can be used as a basis for a discussion of the departure of the actual distribution of the stars from a random distribution .
As far as magnitude , Hussy and Aitken have made systematic search for all double stars .
Beyond this tYnitude no systematic search has been made .
Further , the definition of a double star is a very elastic one .
Thus on page 1 of Burnham 's catalogue , Andromedae with a companion of magnitude at a distance of is counted as a double star .
Two faint stars of magnitude or at this distance would not be classified as double , and the raphs taken for the Astrogra } ) contain many such stars .
The in By G. I. TAYLOR , B.A. , Trinity College , ( Communicated by Prof. Sir Joseph Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received July 11 , 1910 .
) The possibility of the propagation of a surface of discontinuity in a was first considered by Stohes*in his paper " " On a Difficulty in the Theory of Sound This paper begins with a physical interpretation of Poisson 's integral of the equation of motion of a in one dimension .
The in question is ; and it represents a disturbance of finite amplitude moving in a gas for which the velocity of propagation of an infinitesimal disturbance is is the velocity of the in the direction of the axis .
It is shown that the parts of the waves in which the velocity of the gas is travel forward with a velocity , and that there is in consequence a tendency for the crests to catch up the troughs .
After a certain time , and at a certain point in space , the value of will become negatively infinite ; a discontinuity will then occur , and Poisson 's will cease to apply .
Stokes then leaves the subject of oscillatory waves and proceeds to consider whether it is possible to maintain a sharp discontinuity in a gas which obeys Boyle 's law .
His meant , slightly modified by Lord Rayleigh , is as follows:\mdash ; Suppose that a travelling discontinuity can exist .
Give the whole gas 'Phil .
Mag 1848 , vol. 33 , p. 349 ; 'Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 .

