876 .
] On the Development of the Crustacean Embryo .
375 hese disturbances more difficult to prove it on account of the close double 'aaximums which show variations from one year to another* .
] However , it is easy to see , in either of the figs. 4 , 5 , or 6 , that the dotted curves are generally displaced to the right of the plain .
This difference in behaviour between the easterly and westerly disturbances litill tends to support the supposition of their different sources .
It is ery probable that these movements are periodical .
' The staff at the Observatory who can be engaged in measuring the photographic curves of the magnetograph , and making the calculations upon the monthly tables , is at present engaged with the curves of the uifilar and balance magnetographs for the years 1868 to 1871 .
It would be very interesting to know if similar displacements in the listurbance-curves at the stations in Asia and America have been observed , and in what direction .
The following Table gives the total of the disturbances of the decli- aation:\#151 ; West .
East .
East and West .
millims. millims. - millims. 1864 ... ... 1666*3 1797*4 3463*7 1865 1970*6 1598*4 3569*0 1866 1313*4 1382*6 2696*0 1867 832*1 1164*5 1996*6 1868 1635*0 1514*7 3149*7 1869 1784*9 1755*8 3540*7 1870 2486*0 1813*3 4299*3 1871 ... * 2045*4 1734*1 3779*5 13733*7 12760*8 26494*5 Thus near 1870 , or a little after , there is a maximum period disturbances , and from 1866 to 1867 there is a minimum period disturbances , agreeing with the observed periods for the maximum and minimum of sun-spots .
II .
" On the Development of the Crustacean Embryo , and the Variations of form exhibited in the Larvae of 38 Genera of Podophthalmia .
" By C. Spence Bate , F.R.S. Received December 28 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The author states that , although the general forms of several genera of Podophthalmous Crustacea are known , yet the details of their structure have been so unsatisfactorily figured and described , that the value * It is observed that the hollow between the two maximums about noon corresponds closely to another secondary maximum of the easterly disturbances .
It thus appears that , during the hours 20 a.m. to 3 p.m. , there is another force in action independent of the two principal forces .
376 Mr. C. Spence Bate on the [ Mar. 9 , and importance of hereditary elements are incapable of being studied and appreciated .
Through Dr. Carpenter he received from Mr. Power an offer of a considerable number of larvae of exotic species , together with the parents from which they had been obtained ; in relation to which Mr. Power wrote:\#151 ; " Dear Sir , \#151 ; I have to thank you for your kindness in answering my letter to Dr. Carpenter , and for the memoirs .
" My collection of Crustacea and the microscope-slides of the larva are at present , and have been , packed up in Port Louis .
Now I am again on detachment ; and if left here in peace for a few months , I shall arrange my specimens and finish up the microscopic drawings .
" All my larvae are hatched in basins ( the only kind of aquaria my nomad life allows me to use ) , so each crab or prawn \amp ; c. whose larvae I possess is identified with its young ; and this reminds me that on reading Pritz Muller 's paper in the 'Annals ' ( 1864 , vol. xiv .
p. 104 ) , I was much astonished , as none of the prawns or prawn-allies whose young I have hatched show any such Nciuplius form as shown in figures 1 \amp ; 3 , \amp ; c. ; but all I have observed as yet are born like fig. 8 , or near it .
" I have been quite unable to rear any crab-larv\#174 ; beyond a day or two after birth ; whether they require moving water or not I do not know ; but certainly , though I have kept the parents alive for several weeks in basins ( the water changed once or twice in 24 hours ) of salt water , the same method would not succeed with the larvae .
I then tried small aquaria , and signally failed again .
" I have not been in the neighbourhood of fresh water as yet , so have had no opportunities of observing the freshwater Crustacea , though there are a good many crab and shrimp forms .
I have found two kinds of that curious parasitic crustacean which adheres like a little polypus , a mere bag with a peduncle , but containing hundreds of young Crustacea whose genus I do not know , as I cannot find any account of them in Van der Hoeven 's ' Zoology '* .
" If I succeed in getting posted to one of the regiments here , my life will be more stationary , and I shall have far better chances of working my crab-hatchings .
" In Pritz Muller 's paper before referred to , I fancy that he has not hatched the different larvae mentioned .
After reading the paper very carefully , I could not help fancying that the various stages of development were not hatched through , but specimens were captured at different times , and perhaps larvae of totally different species have been given as stages of the same animal .
I say this with great doubt ; but reading the paper will , I think , bring every one to the same conclusion .
Thus he says , ' the unaltered Nauplius form , probably the same in which the animal escapes [ * New genus allied to Sacculina , which hatch larrse in the cirriped pupa stage.\#151 ; C. S. B. ] 876 ] Development of the Crustacean Embryo .
d rom the egg , came under notice only once again , ' This larva ( taken m the 13th of January ) is closely approached by four others , probably I elonging to the same swarm , which were taken at the same time ( 24th r anuary ) ; ' and so on .
" To tow a net in these tropical seas and to examine all the micro-| copic Crustacea would give a most extraordinary assemblage of forms ; ut I doubt if it is so useful as tracing the steps of individuals .
******** 5 " I have not yet hatched the land Hermit-crabs , though I suppose , hey are much as the ordinary sea specimens , and they certainly spend i heir larval life in the sea .
' " Pray excuse my rambling letter , and please let me know of any way | a which I can be of any use to you in my humble dips into natural 1 listory .
" Yours very truly , " Wilmot Henry Power , " Staff-Surgeon , 44 Eegt .
, Lt. Inf.'* r Some time afterwards the author received the promised collection , together with Mr. Power 's drawings and notes .
These have enabled him f o identify the parent forms of some known larvae , and also to determine those of several unknown genera .
I It has also led him to the conviction of a unity of character throughout the various forms and changes of Crustacea ; that variety in form s never inconsistent with homological truth ; that parts suppressed or tendered abortive for want of use are never absolutely lost , and may be eproduced under conditions that may require them .
The eyes of those Crustacea , such as Alphceus , that inhabit dark places *re reduced in power according to the condition of their habitat .
But these .rgans are , in their larval state , as well developed , if not more so , as my of those whose life is passed in the bright sunshine of the surface of he ocean .
J The blind Didamia brought from the depth of four miles below the surface \#187 ; f the Atlantic by the dredges of the 'Challenger'differs in no respect rom Polgcheles , taken by Heller in the comparatively shallow Adriatic sea .
in the blind prawn from the Mammoth Cave of America , and the sight-ess Nephrops of Formosa , the organs of vision are reduced to the smallest } iondition consistent with their retention ; and in the Cirripedes the *yes are represented by their nervous apparatus only .
The several forms of larva have not , in the prawn-allies , shown any - approach to the Nauplius state , as mentioned by Fritz Muller , so that .he author believes that it must be confined to the genus Penceus alone imoug the Podophthalmia .
Nor should it be forgotten that the Nauplius \#166 ; form has only been observed as a free-swimming animal .
The author has taken this opportunity of making a close examination 1 ron .
xxiv .
2 E 378 On the Development of the Crustacean Embryo .
[ Mar. 9 , into the earlier stages in the development of the embryo , and comparing the progress within the ovum of some of the larvae that arrive at or near maturity before being hatched , with those of the larval forms that are hatched in a more immature condition ; and he states that , as soon as the protoplasm assumes any thing like a definite plan , distinct lobes , corresponding in position with those of the several appendages in the Nauplim , together with an embryonic or ocular spot , are present ; that in the NaupUus forms they exist as deciduous appendages only , and are soon cast aside and replaced by others more adapted to the wants of the adult existence .
In the embryos of other Crustacea the anterior pair of lobes enlarge in size with little alteration of form , while the posterior two pairs are developed into appendages that have but a deciduous value , since they never fulfil the office of permanent organs , and are generally cast off with an early moult .
This is observable within the ovum in Crangon , \amp ; c. , and also in the marsupial embryo of Mysis after it has quitted the ovum .
The relation of these parts to the permanent organs the author lias closely traced , and believes that he has demonstrated that the three pairs of mobile appendages in the cirripedal or form of larva honiologize with the eyes and two pairs of antennae , and not with the antennae and mandibles , as stated by Fritz Muller , Anton Dohrn , and others .
The author , moreover , contends that the small pair of filamentary appendages seen on each side of the ocular spot , existing in the of Cirripedes , homologize with the peduncular appendage existing in the larva of Caligus , the arm-like appendages in the pupa-stage of Cirripedes , the peduncle of the stalked Cirripedes , and probably also with the long multiarticulate , antenna-like organs belonging to the fossil Pterygotus .
He also demonstrates the origin of the nerves in a mass of cellular material that reaches from one extremity of the embryo to the other .
This divides into parts corresponding to the various somites into which the animal divides .
These masses gradually separate from each other as the animal increases in size , and concentrate into the several ganglia that form the great nervous chain .
The author also shows the origin of the permanent organs of vision , and the manner in which the number of lenses increases with the growth of the animal , and traces the origin of several of the internal viscera and their mode of growth .
He also figures , in minute detail , the larvae of the following genera ( those in italics are from British specimens , while all the others are from the collection sent to him by Mr. Power ) :\#151 ; Palcemon fluvialis , n. sp. ------ squilla , Leach .
Crangon vulgaris , Leach .
Hymenocera , Heller .
Alphaius obesimanus , Pana .
Homaralpliajus , n. g. Homarus marinus , Leach .
Palinurus vulgaris .
1876 ] On Rainfall in connexion with Sun-spots .
Astacus fluviatilis .
Squilla .
Porcellana rugosa .
\#151 ; -\#151 ; longicornis .
Galathea .
Pagurus tibicen .
-----elegans .
\#151 ; \#151 ; Bernhardus .
Clibinarus .
Trichia .
Gelasimus .
Cyelograpsus .
Libinia .
Menaetheus .
Stenorhynchus .
Mithrax .
Trapezia pectinata .
-----ferruginea .
Pilumnus , Melia tessellata .
Carpelodes rugipes .
Actinurus setifer .
Xantho Lamarckii .
Actsea obesa .
Thia ?
Liomera .
Pirimella ?
Thalamita .
Achelous .
Euriphia .
Thalassina .
Carcinocystus , n. g. [ II .
" On a Secular Variation in the Rainfall in connexion with the Secular Variation in amount of Sun-spots .
" By Charles MeldruM ; M.Av Director of the Mauritius Observatory .
Communicated by B. Stewart , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy , Owens College , Manchester .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author sums up the principal results obtained by his nvestigations as follows :\#151 ; !
( 1 .
) Taking for the individual years of maximum and minimum sunspot those given in par .
4 * , it is found that the rainfall in the maxima jxceeds the rainfall in the minima years in each country or district , and therefore in all taken collectively , the mean annual excess for Q-reat Britain being 1*94 , for the continent of Europe 3'64 , for America 5-l7 , tor India 8*98 , and for Australia 6*23 inches , which gives a mean ixeess of 5*19 inches .
In Great Britain the rainfall in seven of the nine years of maximum sun-spot exceeds the rainfall in the corresponding seven out of nine years of minimum sun-spot ; on the continent of Europe six out of seven maxima years are similarly favourable ; in America five out of six are favourable , in India four out of six , and in Australia two out of three .
A comparison of the mean rainfall of all the stations taken collectively gives an average annual excess of 7*01 inches in favour of the years of maximum sun-spot , and seven of the nine maxima years are favourable .
( 2 .
) It is thus seen that the excess is not owing to abnormal and casual heavy falls in one or two years of maximum sun-spot , but that it * Namely:\#151 ; Years of maximum sun-spot , 1729 , 1739 , 1750 , 1761 , 1770 , 1778 , 1789 , 1804 , 1817 , 1829 , 1837 , 1848 , 1860 , 1871 ; years of minimum sun-spot , 1733 , 1743,1756,1766 , 1776,1785 , 1798 , 1811,1824 , 1834,1843,1856 , 1867 .
2 e 2

