]\gt ; Mr. J. Joly .
Observations , \amp ; c. continued ) .
San Fernando:\mdash ; Instituto Observatorio de Marina .
Anales ( Obser aciones eorol ) .
1888 .
1889 .
The Observatory .
" " the Steam Calorimeter By J. JoLY , Assistant to the Professor of Civil Engineering , Trinlty College , Dublin .
Communicated by ofessor FITZGERALD , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.T.C.D. Received November 26 , \mdash ; Read December , 1889 .
[ PLATES 6 , 7 .
] In two papers read before the Royal Society , *some three years , I described a " " Method of Condensation\ldquo ; in calorimetry .
number of experiments in support of the reliability of the new method are contained in those papers , as well as a description of such forms of apparatus .
as I had then ) been using .
The apparatus , however , could not be said to be the result of a very prolonged study of the capabilities of the method , and possessed many defects , chiefly on the score of convenience in effecting the measurements .
A continued use of the method since that time and its application to some exacting measurements have led to various alterations in the apparatus , so that , after many reconstructions , entirely new been conferred on the instrument .
I purpose to describe two new forms : a single calorimeter similar in type to the older instrument , but in construction ; .
and a differential calorimeter , rendering possible measurements which ] hardly be effected in the type of ument .
the interval , too , a wider knowledge of the capabilibies of the has been acquired .
Its errors have been enquired into .
On the estion of the errors arising from radiation many hundreds of iments have been made .
The general resuIts of these will be found in the following pages .
Again , have from tiin to time tabulated such data as are of use in the applications of this calorimetrical method .
hese I ask permission to include , so as to render this account of the method as complete as it can , lvithin convenient bounds , be made .
As , , descriptions of the principles of the method , and of many experimental tests to which it has been subjected , are accessible both in Professor Bunsen 's paper on the On the Steam Calorimeter .
" " Steam Calorimeter\ldquo ; ( as he has designated it ) and in my own papers ( loc. I will go over this old ground only so far as be intelligible to those who have not seen those papers .
Theory of the Metho theory of the method is , briefly , as follows:\mdash ; A substance at the temperature , , of the air brought into an atmosptlere of steam ] , in attaining the temperature , , of the latter , condense a cerffiin weight of steam , , such that where is the Iatent heat of vapour of , represents a quantity of heat equal to the calorilic capacity of the substance between the limits of temperature .
Hence , if be the specific heat of the body , its weight , .
( 1 .
) From ) is deduced by }suring w , and knowing the value of from recorded experiments .
The apparatus required is one permitting the sudden admission of steam around the substance , and subsequently the accurate observation of the weight of water precipitated upon it .
The steam calorimeter is on the lines of a slight metal receptacle , placed beneath a delicate balance , so that a wire from one arm of the balance sustains a light wire platform within the receptacle or calorimeter .
The platform is provided with a little platinum-foil catchwaber beneath it .
The substance to be deaIt with is placed upon the platform .
Steam being admitted into the calorimeter , the substaIlce rapidly rises to its mperabure , condensing steam , which adhering as water to its surface , or dropping into fbe catchwater beneath , is estimated without loss by the balance .
In this way the value of is determined in the equation for the specific heat .
The observation of is sffected by a tbermometer left in company with the substance in the calorimeter a sufficient length of time and read just before admitting steam .
The of the steam , is deduced by inserting a thermometer in the calorimeter when it is filled with steam or by observation of the height of the In the thermometry it is sufficient in order to secure a high degree of accul'acy to read the second place of decimals by estimation , the mometers having a fairly open scale divided to tentlJs of degrees .
The range obtaining is so considerable that one tenth of a degree is a small fraction of the whole .
On the Values of the Constanfs required and the Corrections necessary in the Use of the .
The succeeding contain a discussion of the constants required in the use of the steam calorimeter and the mode of appIying the necessary corrections .
On the Sfeam Calorimeter .
considerable deduction from the increase of weight indicated by the balance .
It is to be remembered that the density of steam at .
is about half that of .
at .
The effect on the apparent weight the substance will in fact be observable even if it displace a volume of but one cubic ccntimetre , and the deduction becomes very necessal'y when dealing with bulky substances .
The following contains the density of saturated steam over he llge of barometric variation .
It is calculated from the formula 01 in which , when is expressed in atmospheres , has the value the value The results obnined from this formuIa and embodied in the table agree well with deductions based on Regnault 's expel'iments on the total heat of steam .
The of variation with rise of temperature is closely represcnted by the formula , but it is noteworthy that the themselves depart what f Fairbairn 's and Tate 's expenlally found values .
Thus , according to the latter observers , the density at is .
Now , although in general a small those valnes is not of great import\mdash ; an error of as much per ent .
old most geuerally have an inappreciable on estimation of ?
\mdash ; yet cases may arise when a close value is desirable .
In the opes of deciding between the various values to density of steam , I made some direct expel.iments in the calorimeter .
These , in fact , became necessary in the course of some early Jecific heat of air at constant volume , when the of a sphcx.ical copper vessel having a volume of .
had to be considered .
Although the are not .
concordant as could be desired , their object is , I think , ieutly tttained .
I , the efore , add a short account of them here .
Mr. J. Joly .
The proced adopted was the obvious one of measuring directly the effect of the displacement difference , air to steam , on tho weight of ths copper sphere ; condensation of the steam upon it being prevented by raising it to a temperature above that of the steam before the vapour was admitted into the calorimeter .
The calorimeter used was spherical , and 14 cm .
in diameter .
The sphere.was lirst equilibrated when cold as it hung in the calorimeter , the air in the caJorimeter being to a great extent dried by leaving in it a vessel of calcium chloride throughout the previous night .
In considering , then , the denr$ity of the air in which equilibration was effected , the hygrometric state of the air need not be taken into account .
At this point the temperature of the air in the alorimeter and the height of the barometel .
were observed .
Steam was now got up in the boiler attached to the calorimeter , the calorimeter opened , the calcium chloride removed , and the process of heating the sphere begun .
This consisted in applying to it a spirit { lame as it was slowly swung round on the suspending wire .
Of course the first effect of the flame is to precipitate moisture on the cold metal , but as this grows hot the moisture drys off .
To avoid as far as possible a change of weight during this process , due to oxidation , the precaution had been taken of subjecting the sphere to a prolonged course of si treatment previously , till ther heating over a easonable interval of time had no appreciable effect on its When the temperature of the sphere all over is well above that of the steam , shown by touching it here and with a stirring-rod wet with water , steam is admitted into the calorimeter .
It is observable that if ow , immediately the calorimetel .
is filled with steam , the counterpoise be adjusted till equilibrium obtains , this counterpoise will be excessive .
The steam is superheated in the vicinity of the .
sphere , and ils density diminished below its true densiby at the prevailing pressure .
In a few momenls the apparent weight of the sphere diminishes .
The change may be as much as a milligram .
The vibrations of the balance now become steady , and this state of equilibrium continues for from 10 to 14 minutes .
The quantity by which the counterpoise has been increased to maintain equilibrium is the true resuIt of the experiment .
Subsequently a slow and uniform increase in ) apparent of the sphere takes place , at the rate of 1 milligram in five minutes .
This effect , which is considered further on , is apparently due to radiation , and consequent slow continued precipitation of water in the sphere .
It does not apparently interfere with the experiment .
When the experiment is concluded , I found it necessary sometimes to make a second observation of the height of the To reduce the experiment the following values are required:\mdash ; On the Steam Calorimeter .
The voIume , , of the sphere at the temperature , , of the air .
, , , , , , , steam .
reading , , of the barometer at the time of equilibrating the sphere in air .
, of the barometer at the time of the sphere in steam .
weight , , added to the counterpoise during experiment .
From theso lrements , if be the deduced density of ilir at the } ) eralure t and pressure , then the density , , of steam ( weight ) at the pressure ; gob by\mdash ; This is a close approximation ; for if represent in vacuo and the volume of the counterpoise respectively , when the sphere is ated in air ; , the weight and volume of the countelpoise when the sphere is in ; and if be the density of the air prevailing this last period , and of the sphere in ; then :\mdash ; secondly , , as the difference between and will be small or noll-existent , and is also smalI , and subtracting , is obtained as above .
The of effected in this way are in Table .
It is only necessary to arding the data these experiments and , were on a measurement of the volume of the sphere made by .
it in air and in distilled water in the usual way .
After ] tions , voInmo found to be .
at the temperature .
The volume at the temperatures prevailing the snbsequent experi1nents in each ) obtained from the formula of Matthiessen , * , where On the Steam Calorimeter .
On comparing the result deduced as the mean of these eight observations , the value tabulated opposite the of mm. in Table II , it is seem that the experimental value is practically identlcal with that Zeuner 's rmula .
the experiments the mula 0 .
I have thought , then , Zeuner 's esults 1 the safest to adhere to of the many estimations that have Jced f ' the densify of steam at atmospheric pressures .
The thod of Table [ is .
The volume of the estimated cubic centimetres is multiplied by the suitable value taken from the tabl .
This is the displacement in steam .
The displacement air muht also be estimated for tempressure , by refercnce a table of air densities , the diffcrence of the two is , of conrse , that hich affects tion of the eight of substance transferred to an of steam .
If it be to secure the ellor as .
as possihle at all points , then two furtl ) corrections on the value of An allowance or the change of volume 01 ' the due to thermal expansion in from to steam tprature .
This may be conslderable in the case of metal vessels or large masses of metal .
This correction is additive to value of .
( 2 .
) A correction for displacement steam of the itated ater , i. e. , the reduction to tacuo of the weighof water .
This is also an additive ection .
Both these corrections are included in the following equation for of condensation , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 2 .
) volume o substance at density of air at and prevailing pr.essme , , , steam at prevailing pressure , the weight added during experiment .
doparts from strict accuracy ] in so far as it unit mass of water to occupy unit volume at the temperature the for lacement.\mdash ; In a many the vast of , indeed , it will be sufficient to sub.titute going a far simpler correction based on the of stcam to .
Assuming a mean pressure of 760 mm. :\mdash ; Mr. J. Joly .
The volume of the substance in cubic is to be tiplied by the most suitable of these ctors t , o ascertain the be deduot , ed from the apparent weight of condensation .
Correchon for the Cnrrier .
deduction , from the observed weight of precipitation , dne to the calorific capacity of the carl.ler is of course necessary .
This is effected on a previous experiment ( or experiments ) on the empty carrier and proportionately to the relative extent of the ranges in the two cases .
On the of the Method and the Error rising .
Radiation .
Many experiments bearing on the accuracy of the method are contained in my former papers .
It is sufficient to say here that:\mdash ; ( l. ) Successive experiments on the same piece of matter , whether a good conductor of heat or a bad conductor , sbow one with another a consistency of result exceeding that found in the records of observati by other , as in experiments , using the method of mixtures on a very elaborate scale , dealing with large quantities of matter .
( 2 .
) The uits obtained , both with good conductors and bad conductors , agree closely with the most reliobIe ; of Regnault , Bed , Mallet , \amp ; c. ( 3 .
) Wide variations in extent of surface , and in the quantity of the substance placed in calorimeter , fail to the consistency of the result .
I will explain with one example .
A limpid crystal of barytes weighing grams , placed in the calorimeter , afforded as the mean specihc heat between and .
It was no broken up into small fragments , which were ] up on the carrier : grams were thus urned to the calorimeter .
These afforded as the mean speoific heat over the range to This no mere accidental It is certainly for repelition experiments to differ by more than half per cent. Wibh ordinary care , indeed , they are quite as faithful and as sure as repetition determinations of specific gravity made in ordinary way , and on si ] quantities of matter .
It is to be added that since the experimental evidence in support of the method was published much has been done , using various modifications of the apparatus .
I have found that the resulfs in tabJ.e ntaining many such oxperiments is contained in my paper " " On Method of CondP , ation , \ldquo ; p. 362 .
Omh eStea , n Calorimeter .
every case were consistcnt from ome atus to another .
In , lvith varying dimensions of steam-pipe , or exit tube , the consistency of result maintained .
Thus the single calorimeter descl.ibed further on will be ound v different in the disposibiotl of its parts from the form fned for use within case of a as ibed in my former paper .
In the course of some recent on the mineral sulphides , I desired lo check in some cases formel .
results , by wi$h specimens dealt with in the first calorimetsr .
I have collected cases her As regards what is probably occurring in the calorimeter , it is conto consider the ation of an expel.iment as divided a period which , substance is rising in } ) ature , and a period attained the temperature of the team , it by an of satux.ated vapoul , while its weight is eing dined .
riefly epitomise , in from my former lsidcrations .
Throughout the { irst pel.iod:\mdash ; film of water , which almost immediatcly formed } ) the ils outer surface continually by precipisteam .
and hence preseuts a face b the ounding kteam .
film of water will be ermanous to radiation from water vapour , so th most of { he will condense , ltot by radiation , but by ct with the slightly cooler outer service of the A reduced will obtain , or tend to obtain , around the Mr. J. Joly .
rise to an inflow of the surrounding steam .
This condition tends to what error might arise from radiation from points in the vapour near the surface of the body .
Vapour so precipitated will , in fact , be carried by the indraught and thrown upon the substance .
In view of this , care is taken so to construct the calorimeter that no sharp cross-draughts play upon the substance on the entry of the steam , which might possibly diminish the protective effect of the indraught .
It is possible that during this first period , if the walJs of the calorimete1 ; heat more quickly than the subsLance , some radiation occur from the walls to the substance , as a ) minus error in the result .
It is to be added , however , with regard to ( d ) that the entire duration of this first period is very short , and that the quantitative results of experiments on substances show complete independence of surface conditions .
second peYiod , in the weighing is effected , the substance is to be considered as surrounded by a medium which , without change of temperature , maintains the inner surface of ths walk of the calorimeter at the temperature of the substance or ver7 nearly so , and which itself acts as a screen very opaque to radiation .
So that , so soon as the substance has ceased absorbing energy , the conditions are very favourable to preserve it from the effects of further action from radiation .
Nevertheless , there is an amount of radiation effect continuing uniformly during this period , and this on a sensitive balance is perceived by continued observation .
This was first pointed out to me by Professor Hinastedt , of ])armstadt , who , after the appearance of the papers on this method of calorimet , ry , kindly sent me the results of his observations on instruments of the types both by Professor Bunsen and by me .
He found the weight of the substance hanging in the steam lvas not absolutely constant , but was subject to an accretion of some 3 or 4 milligrams in an hour .
As it was desirable to ascertain the cause of this inCl.ement and how far it could be reduced , and as , too , it was quite conceivable that occasion might arise when allowance for it would have to be considered , I made a consiClerable number of protracted observations upon it .
It is sufficient to observe here that the effect seems with probability a radiation effect .
It is ater for rough than smooth bodies .
Lamp-blaeking the substance , or the inside of the much increases it .
Cooling the outside of the calorimeter , as by spraying cold water upon it , increases it .
Calorimeters with double walls , having bright refleotin surfaces , show less increment .
For large calorimeters it is less than for small ones .
It is UBifor.m or nearly so for however long the experiment is continued .
On the other , increase of the rate of flow of the steam through the calorimeter does not seem to affect it , appears to differentiate it from anyOn Steam Calorimeter .
thing like an fact due to nically suspended water in steam .
It appears , in , to arise from a slow loss of heat from the substance to the of neber , steam , in consequence , condensing on the substance .
The umerical results of my own experiments , effected in a large , single-walled calorimeter of spberical form , 14 cm .
in diameter , such as to rrams p hour on a clean , blown sphere havin su of 80 .
cm .
4 per hour on a dull surface of platinum of SO sq .
cm .
hour on , lamp-black ) snrface of SO .
cm .
Tbeso were ined u a roomy calorimeter .
in a of the type to be prQscntl described , but somewhat smaller ( 8 cm .
diameter ) and donbleon lie the lower , removable part , I the :\mdash ; ( L. ) A clean , but not ) , copper box , in form , having an external urface exposed to the steam of 52 sq .
cm .
nearly , standing a platinum.foil catchwater , .
an effective surface .
cm .
; total sq .
cm .
of clean meta ] , showed an of to per ) lllin utes .
Thus successive observations of the increment minutes fforded :\mdash ; The inside of the calorimeter in this experiment as smooth and clean .
Latex I made the riment of .
and the side s of the calorimeter .
This appeared , , to make difference : thus , with all otherwise as above , oLserYations tho increment per 5 minutes:\mdash ; 0 .
0 .
0.5 .
A block of cryolite grams , on um catchwater as above , gave nuillj o per 5 minutes , observations were:\mdash ; 0 .
0 .
( 3 .
) catchwater of platinum foil alone , with stirrup , dose : ibed in ( 1 ) , in the calorimeter previous to gilding its gave the increment , determined every 5 minutes:\mdash ; 0.4 .
Mean increment , 0,34 per 5 minutes .
Mr. J. ( 4 .
) The stirl.up , which is of silver tarnished to blackness , and the cross wires sel.ving as platform , without the catoh.watel .
, gave:\mdash ; 0 .
0 .
0 .
0.2 Mean , per 5 minutes .
I have chosen these observations out of a large number of various as sufficient to give a good idea of how far this radiation effect should be considered in observations made with this calorimeter .
before dealing further with this question a few more experiments be added .
( 5 .
) Frequent observations vitb sensitive thermometers failed , even under extreme conditions , to reveal radiation across the steam to the walls of the calorimeter .
These experiments were conducted in this manner .
A very delicate thermometer , removed from a hypsometer , was coated thickly with lamp-black over the bulb , which measured some 4 cm .
in meter .
This was arranged so that the bulb occupied the centre of a spherical brass meter , single walled , and left cleHn on the inside .
Diameber , 14 cm .
Steam was admitted and the position of the mercury in the projecting stem of the thermometer observed through a telescope .
Cold water was now plentifully sprayed over the surface of the calorimeter , but , although an observer attentively watched the thermometer through the telescope while this was being done , no change in the position of the thread of mercury could be detected .
All this time the abundance of evaporated water rising from the outside of the calorimeter and the increased drip from the inside showed that heat was apidly passing through the walls .
This experiment is surprising , pel'haps , but if the smallness of the effect indicated in the weight-experiments be considered , it need not , I think , negative the suggestion that the increment is a radiation effect .
It remains to add what is perhaps the most conclusive experiment on this radiation question\mdash ; the experiment of coating the inner walls of the with lamp-black and compariog the rate of increment with the rate obtaimng in the absence of this coating .
The increase of surface with ] -black is he greater , as the many tiny globules of water condensing from the steam and adhering to the wall become each coated with the rough black deposit .
Steam was first passed through the space between the walls of the calorimeter till all was heated .
Had this not been done , the eposit of lamp-black would have been washed away from the inner surface by the copious condensation .
When the steam had been some 5 or 6 minutes in the calorimeter , the current through the jacket was stopped and begun .
It is to be that the presence of between the walls would tend to diminish the protccbive On the Steam Calorimeter .
effect of the jncket , increasing radiation .
With ever)thing elsc as ( 1 ) , observations ever 5 minutes gave : Mean , milligrams per 5 minutes .
( 7 .
) The lamp-black was now removed and the inside cleaned .
the same order of procedure as before exactly , and everything same except for the absence of the lamp-black , esults 0 .
0 .
0 .
nearly milligram per 5 minutes .
The effect of the water deposited between the walls of the jacket is probably seen in the diffel .
between this experiment and the results of ( 1 ) .
difference existing between the results of ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) is conspicuous and so far as 1 can see can only be explained the hypothesis that the crease is due to radiatiou .
The inference is strong that the ordinary etfect is also in some not entireJy , of the sarIle n When in special cases it is thought necessary to allow for this effect of 1 adiation ( as I will call it ) , I would Quggest making an observation on the amount of the increment , say over 10 minutes , subsequent to the weighing being completed , and to the time occupied in weighing\mdash ; not proportionately to the time ) ) first admission of steam into the calorimeter , as I do not thin it is wal.ranted to assume that the same effect obtains durin , the period in which the substance is rising in temperature .
It is to be remembered , in fact , that ( as before observed ) an effect of the opposite sign as affecting the observed condensation on the body may then have obtained .
It is to be observed that some of the increment will bs due to the carrier .
This would have amounted to rather more than one half in such a case as ( 2 ) , considerably more in ( 1 ) .
The ordinary deduction from the total condensation for the ific capacity the carrier will eliminate approxinaately this radiation ement .
But it be asked : is it to be determined at at rnomen .
true precipitation has ceased when has the substallcc attained tho of the steam In considering this question it is necessary to realise the nature of the phenomena observed in the course of au experiment .
pposc of cryolite , previously referred , was being dealt with .
is admitted .
For three minutes , about , we try in vain to equilibrate the balance .
Equilibrium impossible for the reason that condensation is ressing so rapidly upon the cryolite that so soon as an tion to equilibrium is ined bhis Mr. J. Joly .
immediately disturbed .
The gain is so rapid during this period that weighing , or ion of the rate of increase , is impossible with the ordinary balance .
Bef , ween this state of things and that prevailing , when weighing has become possible , there is , of course , no abrupt transition .
But , as observed , it is found simply that weighing ( in such a case as I am considering ) has become possible , probably in the course of the fourth minute .
Let the vibrations of the balance be now observed .
The oscillations are perfectly regular for about one minute .
If the balance reads tenths of milligrams , slight of weight will probably be then observable .
Watching the vibrations for 5 minutes from the fourth mmute , suppose , and then moving the rider till there is equilibrium , the gain is found to be seven-tentbs of a milligram .
Observing the balance for another period of 5 minutes , the result is again seven-tentbs , and so on .
However long observation is carried on , the gain is se or eight-tenths per 5 minutes .
Now this is certainly not due to heating of the substance , and it is established by the observations that the seven-temths of a milligram represents an uniform rate of increment .
But from the to the ninth minute observation gave but seven-tenths .
It is safe , therefore , to conclude that by the end of the fourth minute the true condensation due to the calorific capacity of the substance has ceased .
remains to consider numerically the importance of this source of error in affecting the egree of accuracy attained by this method of calorimetry .
I will illustrate this effect by assuming an extreme case in which the increment is entirely ignored , no correction being made it except the unconscious one made in effecting the deduction for the carrier , and I will suppose that after weighing has become practicable 10 minutes be allowed to elapse , in order to put the temperatu ] of the substance beyond question .
I will consider , both in the case of a non-conductor of heat and in the case of a good conductor , the consequent effect on the accuracy of the result .
For the former I cannot do better than take the case of the piece of cryolite referred to in ( 2 ) .
It weighs 37 grams .
For a ange of 90 degrees I get from an experiment on this spec men Specific Heats of Minerals p. 263 ) that there would be a condensation of grams due to the calorific capacity of the cryolite alone .
The increment during the time of observation , according to ( 2 ) [ amte ] , will be milligrams .
Observatious on the rier over a similar interval have , suppose , been made once for all .
The deduction due to its thermal capacity then reduces the radiation fact by ; leaving error of milligram .
This is an error of per , or 1 in 2000 , on the specific heat determined .
Let the case be that of a piece of having the dimensions On the Steam of the copper box referred to in ( 1 ) , that is , a cylinder cm .
in diameter cm .
in length .
bis will be about 405 grams of copper , giving through a range of a tion of grams of steam .
The increme1lt in 10 minutes , less that of the ca1Tler , milligram .
The error introduced by this is 1 part in 20,000 about .
These ures aford an idea of the extent to which this radiation effect , if neglccted entirely , affects the results obtained in these meters .
And , in practice , even these excessive ; they double the erro .
actually obtaining , for it will be found thab half the val for observation will be more than sufficient in order to be quite sure of the , and of the condition of the substance when of such dimensions as I have assumed .
What tion error then can be detected with this method of condellsation is not alone in general rily small , but its amount is easily ascel.tained , and a close approximation to its entire elimination possible .
To the whether undetected erro from radiation or other causes enters into the quantity of steam pt.ecipitated upon the substance in the stance all answer , based on direct expel.iment , cannot be given .
tive eiments on substances , using other methods , would not afford a conclusive answer , the exact extent of the entering into other methods is at least equally open to surmise .
It is to be said , however , that , a priori , no grave error is to be expected , and what experimental tests have been applied appear to show that such .
if existent must be very small .
I have mentioned the general results of these tests .
What is the best form to confer upon a steam calorimeter i ) There are so many conditions to fulfil that the choice is really not very large , It must permit of being filled rapidly with steam , which should ferably descend in the calorimeter , as it then mixes less with the air .
Arrangementf ; musk be made for allowing a slow current or circulation of steam to contiuue all the time hing is being cted .
This must be such as will not interfere with the accurate debermination of the weight .
If this circulation of steam be stopped at any time there is a minute but definite fall in temperatule .
sensitive thermometer will show this .
It is about the one-thirtieth of a degree .
If the current be stopped when the body is accurately poised , and after an interval be starbed again , a minute of is at once apparent .
The substance has cooled in the interva ] and is reheated on re-eHtablishing the curl'ent .
Although this current of steam may be quite slow whiJe weighing is proceeding , there must be complete over it , so that it may Mr. J. Joly .
be made rapid at first when air and mist are being swept out , as the object then is to let in the pure steam as quickly as possible arouud the substance .
The at the point where the suspending wire passes through to top of when calorimeter , ascending to the balance , must be such no ubbing of the wire in its vibration up and down occurs .
That is , the wire should hang in the centre of the necessarily small orifice provided for it ; as this is a troublesome adjustment , an automatic arrangement sbould be provided .
No condensation of steam must occur on wire where it passes out , or above that point , and steam must be hindered from passing up along the wire into the balance .
To eflect the accurate determination of , it important that the temperature in the interior of the calorimeter change slowly .
This necessitates that the walls of the calorimeter be fairly non-conducting .
They must withal be light , or they will remain hot an irlconveniently while after an experiment , and will take long to heat , which hinders the fiUing of the calorimeter with steam .
The interior of the calorimeter must be easily got at for drying out and cleaning , and for putting the readily in its place .
It fit there fairly steam tight , and be simple in construction , and so chcaply made .
A elevation to a scale of one-fotlrth of a convenient form of the er is given in Pl .
6 , fig. 1 ; I have worked a good deal with it , and have lound it the requisite conditions .
I may observe that , as regards the condition of preserving steady temperature , no form not very cumbersome will confer perfect satisfaction if used in a room in which a rapid variation of temperature is suffered to occur just before an experiment .
every case ib will be necessary to carefulIy screen ofl the boiler supplying steam , so that the waste steam and hot gases the burner pass up a flue 01 ' directly out of the room .
lt would be best of all to locate the boiler in a neighbouring room , taking a steam through the wall .
I have myself suffered more from defect in this of the arrangeJnents than any other , and what discrepancies occur one experiment to another I to unsteadiness of the initial temperature .
I generally find thal in the fifteen or twenty minutes during which the boiler is heating , the thermoin the calorimeter may show a variation amouuting to one-tenth , often to one-fifth , of a degree .
My practice is to taks three readings during that interval , one just before lighting the burner beneath the boiler , a second when steam is up , and a third just before making an experiment , after the steam has been let flow fi.eely out of the boiler up a flue for eight or ten minutes to clear air and mist out of the boiler .
I assume the mean of these three as the On Steam of the body bad ccnductor .
I take the last if a good .
In any case the error introduced will be small , but , of course , it is to be avoided .
It is seen in section that the calorimeter is double walled .
The carrier and catchwater are shown within it .
In it is cylindrical , the inner cylinder at each elld .
The pitch of the upper cone is made so high that drops of water will rnn it , not fall off it .
It is of brass , , the inside gilt and burt1ished .
This is not essential , but keeps it clean from sulphur and antimony which from the rubb ' by the steam .
The the walls arc simply burnished .
tside it is covered with runken cloth .
The steam dmission way is in the upper part of calorimeter , and this pipe : upper parb is securely fixed to the upri .
ht the table cal'rying bhe balance .
The lower is ) from the } .
It meets it on a round Sface , and in its pl by an external yonet C nt eith e side .
admitted by the brass ) shown in !
) ositiolt at the other side of the upright .
This pipe is removable and is dily l in laCe , being guided by a hollowed-oub wooden upport a to the board of the calorimeter-stand .
It is ected by a thick rubber tube , cm .
in diameter , the beiler .
This have a fall the whole way to the boiler to kcel ) it from wi water .
On steam being admibted , it rapidly drives out air , steam in the calorimetel .
To allow the escave , it means is provided for the lower ificc of the c ) fully .
This is effected by rotating a milled-headed the side of the , and shown dotted in the .
The haft from this screw passes across the fnce of the carrying the calorimeter , and is furnished with .
arms .
One of these is at its xtremit with a vood cup , shown dotted , in the depressed position .
otfier car ] a conical catchwater of brass with a sloped tube ) in position at lower orifice of calorimete !
of these , the wooden cup , or the cone and tube , may be to covea the orifice in the calorimeter by a movement ( of bout cm .
of tke shaft of the milled-headed .
Before experiment the non-conducting wooden cup cIoses the orifice .
Just before coupling with the boiler , this is depressed and pushed back .
When it is judged from the appearance of the steam escaping at the ifice that all air is expelled , the cone and tube are elevated against the orilice , closing it except for a slow current of team still free to issue from the sloped tube .
The water draini n from the calorimeter issues through this tube , falling into a dish placed to receive it .
thermometer for reading the initial temperature is bed in Mr. J. Joly .
the fixed upper part of the calorimeter .
It is at a convenient slope for reading , and its bulb penetrates into the calorimeter till just over the substance placed on the carrier .
In careful work it is well to read the thermometer by a telescope .
A very accurate , but less convenient , way is to read with a lens , which is moved about till the image of the graduation on the stem of the thermometer reflected in the thread of mercury is seen to be covered by the graduation .
There is then no error .
The thermometer is withdrawn just before letting steam , and the tubulure plugged with a small cork .
After the weighing is finished , a tbermometer for ding the boiling may be inserted in this tubulure .
Previous to the admission of steam , the tubnlure taking the steam-pipe is kept closed by the stopper of wood overlaid with cloth , shown dotted in its position .
The side pieces which go towards supporting the table for the balance are cut out as shown at each side , so that the operator can see to remove the stopper , and the steam-pipe rapidly .
My practice is to pinch the rubber tube the steam for the moment in which the steam-pipe is being laid on ; when in position it is released , and steam let flow into the calorimeter .
The pipe is in part covered with thick baize , so that it may while hob be grasped by the hand .
A section , fig. 2 , Pl .
6 , full size , shows the arrangement adopted to render the wire in its passage through roof of the calorimeter adjusting in the centre of the orifice provided for it , or rather to render the orifice self-adjusting on the wire .
The coned roof of tho inner wall of the calorimeter is carried through the external cylindrical jacket , flanged at the top , and ground smooth .
A loose coned piece also with ground flange rests on this .
The upper end of this cone is turned down to a knife edge , and just brought flat on a fine stone .
Om this a tiny disk of copper or brass drilled centrally with an orifice about two-thirds of a millimetre in diameter is laid looosely .
The wire bearing the carrier is brought through this disk , which weighs about 22 rams .
Above the disk is placed a spiral of fne platinum wire held in a forceps , which by two binding screws may be put in cirouit with a battery .
Through this the wire also passes .
Finally , before the wire rises into the balance , it is embraced by an inverted cone ( fig. , turned in hard wood , which is adjustable in position , being held to the under face of the table by two spring clips , as a slip is held on the stage of a microscope .
On the table a balance , not shown in the figure , stands .
The wire ascends to the left of this balance .
The adjustment of the suspending wire is very obvious .
The balance is set so that the wire hangs freely through a large aperture in the table provided for it .
The inverted cone and the ] cone on the calorimeter next set to let the wire pass centrally .
The On the Steam Caloritr .
aperture in the iuverted cone is about 2 mm. in meter , that in the lower cone about 3 mm. Their adjustment , therefore , does ot present any difficulty , and once made need seldom be disturbed .
The disk on the lower cone is permitted to adjust itself .
During an experiment , it is kept warm by tion from the platinum spiral , which is put in circuit with a cell .
It thus remains dry quite free to move about on the knife of the cone .
As the wire vings about , it carries it with it from side to side .
inally , when the amplitude of the ibrations diminish sufficiently , it leaves it correctly adjusted , for , of , the will always so shift the disk as to swing in a diameter of the .
This meant I have found to act very pel.fectly .
The of ) wire in the old ement was troublesome ; it no attention }vibh this , which in no way erferes with the hing .
disk should not be lighter than the spccified , for if too light the amount of pressure which it is to maintain will raise it at one side .
It is remarkable as ards the for maintaining the orifice dry thnt an error may be introduced if this is kept at too a .
It apparently then sets up an ebullition of the water itated on the upper of the calorimeter , the result splas or rain upon the nce below .
I eoll led to suppose this by that the radiation effect is rently increased by heating the spiral excessively .
On the other , too ld a spiral , of course , also causes error by water to condense on the wire both above and below the orifice .
temperature seems to be that which to the spil a a just visible red when steam is not the calorimeter .
The eifect of the up of steam is to cool it .
The suspending wire should } ) of platinum ; about mm. diameter will be sufficiently strong for most purposes .
This ascellds to tlIe left end of the balance beam , being rectly attached to a connterpoise equilibrating the right-hand pan .
It is well to load the balance till there is equilibrium when the empty carrier is in position .
The of the substance before an experiment then affords its weight , with , of coul.se , the ordinary for air displa iement , if ught n The balance used by me is a Sartorius short-beam ( 14 cms The cheap form of this ument answers admirably , to tenths of milligrams when loaded wibh over 100 .
It will do so , I believe , up to 200 grams .
It is quick , and in every is pel'fect for the purpose .
On removing the pan stops the suspellding wire may be taken through the drilled aperture left in the -gass base .
The stand of the calorimeter is of well-seasoned , strongly Mr. J. Joly .
fitted together .
To enable it to be levelled , it is suppor } on two leyelling screws in front and a centrally placed foot at the back .
To afford more vertical room , the base board is cut out centrally in front .
The carrier for supporting the substance within the calorimeter is shown in position within the calorimefer .
It is made of silver wire , about mm. in diameter .
The catchwater is of thin platinum-foil , and is removable for drying and cleanin , .
It is , in fact , supported on a projecting claw beneath the ring of the carrier .
Across this ring fine platinum wire is stretched , forming a platform on which the substance may be laid .
Four wires crossing at the centre will in general be sufficient .
When resting on these the substance is exposed to the steam on all sides .
The total weight of the carrier is just 3 grams .
It condenses about gram through a range of C. The claw the catchwater performs a double function .
In the case of a smooth body , which is also a good conductor of heat and of large thermal capacity , such as a thin vessel filled with water , the precipitation is so copious and sudden that it reaches the catchwater before it attains steam temperature .
The result is a secondary precipitation on the outside of the catchwater .
This might be in some cases so plentiful as to drop from the bottom of the catchwater , and so be lost .
The claw serves to entangle this , retaining it on the balance .
It is important that an ample supply of steam should flow into the calorimeter on connecting it to the boiler .
To make cel'tain of this , a strong gas-burner and a large should be used .
The supply , indeed , should be considerably in excess of what passes up the connecting-tnbe .
If this is not so there is risk of air entering the boiler on tirst it with the calorimeter , which , mixing with the steam , causes a mist of cooled vapour to flow up { he tube .
The danger of this is considerable , as there a strong teIldency to an aught at the boiler , owing to the buoyancy of the water-gas in the ascending tube .
In some experiments on the value of the radiation effect , before ] luded to , this came strikingly to my notice .
The boiler was fitted wiffi a pressure-relief rangement , consisting simply of a tube takeri externally from the top of the boiler , bent twice at right angles and brought downwards , so that it opened at a level below the bottom of the boiler .
a certain small pressure of team in this was necessary to drive the buoyant gas down this escape-pipe .
Hence I concluded that the continued appearance of steam escaping at the relief-pipe was a sufficient indication of an excess of interllal pressure .
However , in my experiments alarge and unaccount- able increment to the weight of precipitation on the substance eiled , and this I traced after much trouble to the entry of air at the .
There was , in fact , a culation of air and stea , within On the Steam Calorimeter .
the tube and boiler ; air entering and flowing one side of the pipe , steam issuing along the other .
On narrowing the opening of the tube , so that a well-defined current of steam having the full section of the tube issued , the effect disappeared .
The foregoing method of providing for the exit of the steam is defective and unsafe .
It is to use a llon-return ] of some I find the Qimple aement shown on the } ) oiler in Pl .
7 ( scale one-tenth ) very effecve .
Tt is simply a balanced valve , meeting the vel.fical exit-tubulure on a edge ' fine , so as not to stick with precipitated water .
The counterpoise to the weight of the flap can be at discretion in one of several notches near the end of the beam , so the pressure may bc increased or diminished .
To this falling into vibl.ation , the pivot on which it turns bears one end against a , which may be tightened so as to retard a little the oscillatory motion of the beam .
The pressure iutained s be small , as in cxcess pressure with the working of the calorimeter .
The valve should be so sct that it just falls shut readily when steam is nob issuin. .
This , according to , in the case of the valve used by me onds to rathel less than a presstlrc of 1 mm. of watel .
The material of the boil is copper , tinned within .
Th !
is a large " " solid flame\ldquo ; of etcher .
Tethod of an will suppose meter dry and cold , ] ready for the introduction of the substance .
This is on rier which hangs the calorimeter depcndent from the balance .
Having adjusted the substance centrally ) the carrier , and so that there is no of water opping from any protruding point of the substance over ) edge of the catchwater , and so tion by the balance , the thermometel .
the initial temperature of the substance is to be in its tubulure .
This is done now , before closing the calorimeter , in order to see that its bulb does not strike the substance 01 the stirrup of the carrier , and that it is inserted sufficiently .
to be well over and close to the substance .
The substance should now be roughly counterpoised by placing weights in the righthand pan of the balance , and before the final adjustment of the balance , the calorimeter closed .
On now finally ting the equilibrium of the balance , we observe if the wirs swings eely tough the several orifices through which it passes .
The weight placed on the -hand pan aflords , the weight of the substance , if , as should be , equilibrium be previously obtained between the carrier and the pan .
It is necessary also to see that the lowc ] .
orifice of the orimeter is closed with the wooden stop , and that bhe entrance-way for the steam-pipe at back is also stoppered .
After these preparations the calorimeter must be left a sufficient VOL. XLVII .
Mr. J. Joly .
time to ensure that the thermometer and substance are uniformly at one and the same temperature .
This interval of course varies with the nature and mass of the substance .
In accurate work sufficient interval must be left to leave no doubt on the matter , the room being one not subject to sudden variations of temperature .
When the required interval has ] apsed , the thermometer is read by a hand lens , or bebter through a telescope .
The temperature is noted down .
The burner is now lighted beneath the boiler , all hot gas and steam arranged to pass directly out of the room , as ] ready mentioned , and direct radiation carefully screened off from the calorimeter .
When the water is boiling , a second reading of the thermometer is taken and noted down .
The boiler is now suffered to pass steam through the coupling-tube for about ten minutes , to ensure that all is free from air and mist .
During this time it is better that the tube be directed so that the steam escapes up a flue or out of the room .
The interval is to be utilised in checking the equilibrium of he balance , noting down the position of the rider , and observing if the valve on the boiler is working freely and without vibration .
At tlJe expiration of the interval , a third reading of the thermometer is taken and rapidly noted .
It is then carefully withdrawn from the calorimeter , laid aside , and its tubulure stoppered with a little cork kept for the purpose .
Everything is now ready for admitting steam .
The steam-pipe , with its nozzle held upwards , is laid out .
the slanting board which supports between the boiler and the calorimeter .
The nozzle is then grasped in the right hand , the steam-jet being still directed tlpwards .
With the left hand we turn the commanding the exit lubulure at the bottom of the calorimeter , it to the full .
The stopper closing the entrance-way to the rear of the calorimeter is now to be withdrawn , and then bringing the left hand back to the rubber steam-tube , we pinch it sharply at a convenient point , some 20 cm .
below the nozzle , which , while the escape of steam is thus for the moment prevented , is its position .
The steam tube is instantIy reIeased , and we give our attention to connecting by a switch the platinnm spiral with the -cells .
This only takes a moment , but by this time the steam is already pouring out at the exit way .
For or seconds it should be permitted to flow out freely ; what little condenses on the surrounding objects dries off quickly , and does no harm .
The being thus completely cleared out , the outflow of steam is moderated by closing the smaller tubulure the exit-way , and in from one to three or four minutes , according to the ur and quantity of the substan , the weighing may be effected .
It will be at once seen by the balance if the substance is completely heated or not .
If ifi is , it will be found that the vibration of the On the Steam Calorimeter .
pointer continues , gaining my imperceptibly , perhaps , one division the right bout five mlnutes .
This will represent about haIf a milligram .
Observed now for another five minutes , similar addition will be needed .
increment is due to radiation , and the milligram thus accrlling dtlring the ten minutes is not to be inciuded in the value , , which we now have ined .
experiment is now concluded .
It is wcll , afler disconnecting it fi.omtLe boiler , and while calorimeter is still , to dry it out , as heat then complefes the drying very thoroughly .
The ctic ) on ?
, necessary to convert it to the value of the final equation have eady been considered .
The Di.fferential In the use of the appat.atus just describod , it is that a of accuracy is attained .
In the in the estima.tion , of steam condensed upon the substance , an accuracy of one part in one thonsand may , I think , be .
Therc remain tain causes of error value limits , as in all ] orimetric methods .
In other methods the ransfcrred { rom a region at one temperature to a at lother .
The error transference Las in these cases to be conside .
The movement of the substance , when at its highest temperatures , through , 1nay be a source , oserious error ; nor can this be initely diminished , for a too close approximation of the heatcr and the cooler causes a tl'ansforenc.e of heat between the , in self a source of errol .
In the method of mixtures a further of is to be found in the coutinued adiation of the calorinleter and evaporation of the water contained in it .
the method of condensation the substance is not moved , but the medium around it is hanged .
Is there any el.rorcompal.able with the erro ] nsference in other methods ' doubtless is som er but it is not to be expected that it is at all as great .
error in this case is simply the tion of the vapour to tho substance .
Now the with which steam can be to fill the calorimeter is very great , and the momentary l'adiation of the advancing steam upon the substanc.e is in part compensated hy the precipitation of the most active of this radiating steam up between the substance and its precincts now begins at a ertain rate , the value of which when the temperatures become steady can easily be .
The first error is a minus , the second a plus error .
There may be also some minus error of the second errors thus tend towards a balance .
All experimental work indicates that the error is very small .
Experiments .
J. Joly .
in which the Jrface extent of the eain substance is varied considerably more especially point to this conclusion .
If these are to be taken as conr:lusive , the error must be generally less than the proportion one in a thousand .
The variations in successive ments are of about this magnitude , but are not in any special direction , and so point to no source of error in particular .
These experiments are on conductors .
( See " " Method of Condensation p. 362 .
) The change of medium around the substance from one of greater to one less buoyancy affects the balance and has to be allowed for by calculation based on experiment .
It is improbable that , more than a very small error arises from this source .
Special cases may , however , arise in which this may not be so ; and it was chiefly to avoid error from this last source that , in dealing with the large spheres of thin metal , used in the determination of the specific heat of air at constant volume , I resorted to the use of the differentiai calorimeter .
* This has the further advantage of eliminating the radiation error affecting observations in the simple calorimeter .
Nor need the thermal expansion of the substance any longer be considered .
I describe \amp ; e apparatus briefly here , as it seems in fact iminate a great extent , if not entirely , what small risk of error obtains in the previously described apparatus .
Its advantages , however , are most conspicuous in the use for which it was designed , the only use to which , up to the present I have applied it\mdash ; the calorimetry of gases .
Its application to this branch of physics must ever be its most important .
Indeed in the conditions obtaining in the calorimetry of solids or liquids it is hardly called for .
However , even in these latter cases , where it is advisable to enclose the substance from contact with the steam , the calorimeter would enable us .
to effect the experiment somewhat more accurately than be .
possible with the use of the single calorimeter .
Plate 7 shows , in side sectional elevation , fig. 2 , and front sectional elevation , fig. 1 , to a scale of one-tenth , the ential calorimeter which I have at present in use in dealing with gases. .
The spheres , one of which is used to hold the gas , are shown hanging in the calorimeter .
The drawing needs little explanation after has been said about the single calorimeter .
The principle is .
Apart from its special application to gases , it may ) said that the calorimeter is so constructed that carriers depending from both arms of the balance are hung within it , , by side an\amp ; .
only a few centimetres removed from one another , the balance used eing a beam balance .
The substance may be enclosed in a receptacle of thin platinum or copper , with a screwed , airtight lid , and placed upon one carrier ; a similar receptacle , \ldquo ; On the Specific lIeaffi of Gases at constant Yolums\ldquo ; Ptli]nina Roy .
So .
Proc vol. 45 , p. 38 .
On the Steam Calorimeter .
closed air-tight , permanently , if desired , is placed in the other , but containing air only .
The receptacles have been pre- yiously imetrically c , and adjusted to have the same thel.mal capacity as they have the same external volume .
Such pfncles are most cunveniently constructed for either liquids or solids in small ments .
In these cases narrownt:cked ves , sels , such as ma , be closed without difficulty , may be used .
The calori ) lnlent may of course be eifected by erbing a calculated weight of copper or subof known specific heat in the vessel deficient in calorific the differ ince may be allowed to remain and the The thermonneter enters the calorimeter midway between the ffilld , the caJorimeter is of good metal enclosed in an outer shield of wood , a uniform temperature be sumed to prevail after some considebl interval of quiet has ] } , whatever this temperature , or the temperature of the steam , eceI)tacles and alone are without effect upon the balance .
Nor there be any inc.rement perceived due to radiation .
* If one receptaclc , however , contain a substance will indicate precipitation due solely to ) .
It is to be supposed that any error of transference of media will affect each reacle alike , subsequent radiation will also affect alike , and , as their lumes are identical , the varying buoyancy of the media is withont effect on the balance .
I have said the precipitation will be due solely to the substance .
Evidently , owevcr , in very accurate work this cannot quite be assumed .
In fact the capacity of the air expelted from the o1le ) on the introduction of the substance must be considered .
precipitation due to this weight of , considered as possessing the heat constant volume , must be added to , the observed effect ) } balance .
As the .
in these receptacles cannot be air , this specific heat may be taken as having the value .
The volume of the substance must , as with the of the single calorimecer , be estimated , and the of occupying this volume at the prevai ] pressure and te the pressure 760 mm. , and temperature if the steam temperature be assumed as C. , the addition to gram per .
of volume occupied by the substance .
this result , I might be expected\mdash ; that a similar of SuYfaoe iccessary .
lVith platinull vessels there would probably be little diIiic attaining this ; but with coppcl .
vessels I have found it necessary to keeI ) bolh surfaces very frcc grease and oxidised all over .
Washing in hydrate and heating over a spirit flame seems to the to the desired uzuform permanent condition . .
J. Joly .
This will aflord an idea to the desirability of making the correction in any particular case .
It is evident , too , that this additive correction , gram per , might without further calculation be assumed as the corl ection in many cases , except very great accuracy be sought .
The construction of the differential calorimeter , it wilI be seen from Pl .
7 , differs from that of the single calorimeter , in being single walled , and having a box-like covering of wood , fitted on over all , tbrough which the thermometer is inserted , and which is placed in position after the calorimeter is closed .
It is left on throughout the experiment .
The obvious use of this box is to favour equilibrium of temperature throughout the calorimeter .
Steam is admitted centrally , led from the boiler through a thin brass tube .
The diameter confex.red upon this tube in the calorimeter figured in the plate might with no disadvantage be reduced somewhat from that shown .
This steam tube is in three lengths : an elbow fitting into the boiler ; a straight horizontal piece of any required length ; and finally a vertical double-tee piece .
This last is capable of a rocking movement about the axis of its lower horizontal member , so that the upper horizontal member may be shifted either to a central posibion behind the calorimeter , when it is in the position for hrowing steam into the calorimeter , or to one side , when it no longer comm nicates with the interior of the calorimeter .
As drawn , it connects boiler and calorimeter .
It is further necessary to provide the means of filling the whole steam pipe before filling the calorimeter .
this purpose the upper horizontal member of the double-tee tube is furnished with two ging valves , closing it at each end .
Before an experiment , and when the tee tube is turned to one side , the outer one of these is drawn inside for a couple of minutes till the whole steam way has been thorougbly cleared of air and heated throughout .
During this time the rear orifice of the calorimeter is closed by means of a stopper of cork , bound in soft cloth .
When the steam pipe is heated as described this is withdrawn , and the pipe simply shoved ac.ross till it comes to a stop provided .
In this movement an automatic action lifts the inner valve , shoving it completely to one side , so that there is free way into the calorimeter .
This , as will be readily understood , is effected by arranging that the edge of the hang1ng valve strikes against the projecting tubulure of the short steam way leading into the calorimeter .
Subsequently , on inclining the tee pece to one side , the valve lmes its old position , closing the steam ppe .
By this arrangement there is little or no leakage of steam , and the operation of tnrning steam into the calorimeter is effected by one movement of the hand .
There is but one exit way to the calorimeter .
This is placed centrally at the bottom .
Before experiment this is closed by means On the Sfeam imeter .
of a cork ; this is removed when steam is first admitted .
When the calorimoter is thoroughly filled it is replaced by a second cork , pierced by a short brass tube a bore of about 7 mm. The diameter of this exit tube might also , with , be reduced from that shown .
The platinum spirals used in drying and warming the suspending wires at their points of exit are in series , of the same and fineness .
The adjustment at the orific.es is applied , and , deed , alone renders the ential arrangement workable .
There is no difficulty in , the most ation of )ight .
body of the imeter is in form used for its stiffness and inexpensiveness .
The of the cylinder are closed caps of thin , spun coppcr .
These have a swelled flange fibting smoothly over the ends of the cylinder , and are furthel kept in their places by oscrews , fixed in the box coveling the calorimeter , at each end , so loc.ated that when the box is in position and the screws ewed in , they will bear inst the hemispheres .
Owing to the shape of the calorimeter , it is necessal'y to shelter the riers from drip by guards ] of thin Dutch metal , sprung on two ' wires into the tubulures of the orifices , so that they can be removed and To allow of veights b plaoed on either side of the balance , the ordinary musb be removed .
The arrangement shown on the figure works welI .
Weights may be laid on or taken ofl the little inner pans without swinging the ding wires supporting the cal'riers .
In conclusion , it may be } emal .
that many instruction , or even lecture-table experiments of interest may be readily shown with the diiferential calorimeter .
Thus the law of tomic heats is by placing quantities of two simple bodies , proportional to their atomic weights , in the orimeter , and equilibrating by weights placed in the upper pans .
On steam , the equilibrium of the balance will remain undisturbed .
Similarly Woestyn 's law constancy of specific heats of bodies in the free and combined states be illustrated by placing the frec elements in the proportions chemical one carrior , and an equal of the combined elements on the other .
The application of the vapour imeter to the mination of latent heats of vaporisation is very probably possible .
I that ncither this application of it , nor the allied question of the employment of other vapours besides that of water , can be considered here , the study of the capabilities of the steam imeter and a couple of its applications having occupied my time up to the present .

