1892 .
] Magnetic Variations , Magnetic Disturbances , SfC .
445 II , " On the Simultaneity of Magnetic Variations at different places on occasions of Magnetic Disturbance , and on the relation between Magnetic and Earth Current Phenomena .
" By William Ellis , F.R.A.S. , Superintendent of the Mag-netical and Meteorological Department , Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
Communicated by W. H. M. Christie , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received April 7 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author refers to the ordinary variations of the magnetic elements as observed at Greenwich ; the annual progressive change ; the diurnal variation\#151 ; large in summer , small in winter , and also larger when sun spots are numerous and smaller when sun spots are few ; the irregular magnetic disturbances and magnetic storms , and the accompanying earth currents ; phenomena which are generally similar at other places .
He then invites attention moro particularly to magnetic disturbances .
Those at Greenwich may , after a calm period , arise gradually , or commence with great suddenness .
When sudden , the movement is simultaneous in all elements .
The first indication may be a sharp , premonitory , simultaneous movement , followed after a time by general disturbance , or the movement may at once usher in the disturbance .
These initial movements are not always great in magnitude , sometimes , indeed , small , but they have a very definite character , and frequently occur nearly instantaneously , as is shown by the character of the photographic traces .
It has been long known that magnetic disturbances occur at the Game time over wide areas of the earth 's surface , but the accidental comparison in past years of the times of commencement of one or two disturbances at Greenwich with the times at other places has led the author to suppose that the coincidence in time is much closer than had been before supposed , and the definite , and on occasions isolated , character of the initial movement induced him to undertake the collection and comparison of the times of such movements for a cumber of days at observatories geographically widely separated .
I he times of such movements cannot be caught by eye observation without continuous watching of the magnets , so that the photographic registers have to be relied upon , which is better , excepting that the scale of time is necessarily contracted ; but , though in individual measures there might be variations , it was conceived that ( supposing no systematic error to exist ) the mean of a number of com-paiieons should give a good result .
Seventeen days occurring in the }ears 1882 to 1889 were selected for comparison , the observatories 446 Magnetic Variations , Magnetic , #c .
[ Ma , y 5 being those of Toronto , Greenwich , Pawlowsk , Mauritius , Bombav Batavia , Zi-ka-wei , and Melbourne , and , for a less number of days ' Cape Horn ( as obtained from the Mission Scientifique du Cap Horn 1882-83 ) .
It was desired to have times for Pola , but it was found that photographic registers during great part of the period did not exist .
The variation in time at each place from the mean of times for all places is given for each day .
The mean deviation at the different places varies from + 2-4 minutes to \#151 ; 2-9 minutes , the agreement between four of the places , Greenwich , Pawlowsk , Mauritius , and Bombay , being very much closer , the mean values of devia-tion for Greenwich , Pawlowsk , and Bombay differing , indeed , by only Ol minute , equivalent to 6 seconds .
The question arises , Are the differences real , or due ( considering the contracted time scale ) to accidental error ?
If the magnetic impulse is really simultaneous over the whole earth , it is a striking physical fact , and if not entirely so , the circumstance is no less interesting ; but greater attention to accuracy of time scale , or a more extended scale , may be necessary before the point in question can be definitely settled .
A table is added , showing the character of the magnetic movement at the several observatories , from which it appears that at any one place the movements on different days were in most cases similar , though different at different places , indicating on these occasions the occurrence usually of one general type of disturbance .
Reference is made to the question of earth currents .
A comparison for thirty-one days , between 1880 and 1891 , of cases of sudden magnetic movement and earth current , shows the earth current to precede the magnetic movement by 0T4 minute , equivalent to 8 seconds .
The question of the relation between magnetic movements and earth currents is discussed .
The desirability of being able temporarily to obtain , when occasion requires , a more extended time scale for all magnetical and meteorological phenomena is pointed out .
The general result is that in the definite magnetic movements pro-ceding disturbance the magnets at any one place are simultaneously affected ; also that in places widely different in geographical position the times are simultaneous , or nearly so , a small constant difference existing at some places which may be real or may be accidental , but the character of which it seems desirable to determine .
It is shown also that at Greenwich definite magnetic movements are accompanied by earth current movements which are simultaneous , but that neither magnetic irregularities nor ordinary magnetic variations seem t ' admit of explanation on the supposition of being produced by the dir ect action of earth currents 1 : 0

