]\gt ; yet been co-ordinated with the electrodynamical theory of electrons .
It is reasonable to enquire if this is due to the failure of mathematicians to provide an explanation , whether because the approximations used are not accurate enough , or because the conception of the electronic systems considered is not ?
As indicating failure due to the use of approximate equations , it may be pointed out that the neglect of radiation terms , or even their treatment by an approximation due to Larmor and Lorentz ( valid in certain cases ) is attended with considerable danger , and in former papers to the Royal Society I have given cases in which such approximate treatment would / give a quite inadequate notion of the effects to be expected .
As regards the specification of an electronic system , it is remarkable that so many calculations take account of electrostatic forces only .
In any ttempt to deal with the phenomena of spectra it seems obvious that only a theory which takes account of and netic forces is likely to meet with success .
Hicks has on several occasions insisted on this , and recently*he has given .
an illustration showing how large the effect of internal magnetic force may be in affecting the motion of an electron .
has outlined a theory of spectral series , which appears to me most * Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 90 , p. 356 ' Phil. Mag vol. 26 , p. 1010 1913 ) .
Hence Thus such orbits exist provided is negative and numericaJly greater than , and if , further , , is greater than , the radius of the nucleu\amp ; This requires should be less than 1 .
A disturbance from a steady state may be examined in the usual way by assuming that , differ from their steady values by small quantities proportional to We flnd that Both values of are positive , so that if the orbits exist they are stable .
When the equation is , or For displacements in the plane of the orbit varying as we get so that for stability this must be positive .
occur later , I shall suppose that the dielectric ratio of the matter inside is given by , where In order to secure proper continuity with the equations outside the nucleus we find that the equations inside There is a Lagrangian function , from which we can deduce an energy and an integral of angular momentum Th , ere are steady circular orbits given by .
; .
and if we get Clearly the orbits are possible only if When we the condition or For disturbance in the plane varying as we get For disturbance perpendicular to the plane Thus stability is secured if the latter quantity is positive .
The possible range is as follows : \mdash ; is positive and , , .
, , , If the part is uniformly disturbed throughout as before , while is confined to the surface , the effect of the latter is to superpose a uniform within .
the nucleus .
The equations for the circular orbits of equal angular momentum are now The general character of the orbits not altered , but the necessity for this subdivision will become apparent when we attempt to fit our final results with observalion .
It will now be convenient to consider the magnitude of the quantities involved , and for the moment it will suffice to take the order of magnitude only without entering on precise numerical estimates .
Thus let us take The quantity is thus of order ' which is undivided , the curve consists of two branches with a cusp at .
If is just a little less than unity , the orbits are rather close to the equatorial plane and within a narrow range to The values of , which are negative , range from two to two and a half times , which is hardly enough .
On the other hand , if is small the orbits lie rather close to the magnetic axis of the nucleus and range from to while ranges from two to five times , which is more suitable .
frequency of a disturbance is not in general , but on the latter assumption the difference is small .
Anticipating a result which will appear , when we take account of the radiation , that only for certain series of values of are the orbits approximately permanent , we get a promising explanation of certain spectral series .
But there is one weakness .
For a given value of there is but one frequency , of .
Thus the series of lines can have no structure , although they probably have diffuseness . .
Thus the additional terms to be introduced in the equations of motion of the particle vary as These will vanish and the stationary orbit will be permanent for that type of disturbance if is selected so that Hence , , we the condition The roots are , etc. , and the higher roots are nearly In order to satisfy the boundary conditions at the surface of the nucleus .
K$ is determined by Since is large , the real parts of the roots are very nearly those of , while the imaginary parts are small .
There also the special root and so on .
Our argument , then , is that at theae distances the COlTesponding orbits are for optical purposes of considerable permanence for disturbance of this type , and so give rise to series , while intermediate orbits , being soon deranged by this type of disturbance , give no optical effect .
The orbits of equal angulal momentum are given by ' where and may be given the above series of values .
Thus , if the conditions are such that the orbits lie close to .
the axis , the frequencies of the lines in the series are The head is and the tail is Towards the tail the values will be approximately wheoe for the different series has the values , etc. Near the head the more values must be introduced in place If , however , the orbits approach the equatorial plane , and we consider also equatorial orbits which are not all of the same angular momentum , the although having the same general features , cannot be accurately expressed in so simple a form , and , moreover , limits are set to the possible number of lines .
We next consider the first-order disturbance of magnetic type .
The field is given lo . .
ante , p. by In either case the values of are determined by the equation and , since is large , the roots are practically while the imaginary part is small .
There is the special root which corresponds to a lapidly damped disturbance of exponential type .
We thus expect approximately permanent orbits , those near the axis being given by / , where is an integer not less than 2 , , and so on .
On the other hand , if they are near the equatorial plane , takes the values , where may now begin at 1 , , and so on .
2 , source of excitation .
And it may be noticed that while the two types of series cannot exist together , they might both be exhibited photographically if the exciting disturbance changes at optically long intervals from one type to the other .
We may now compare with observed results the simpler formulae which hold when the orbits lie near the axis .
They appear to have a direct application to certain cases , although we ought not to lose sight of the more complex expressions arising from equatorial orbits , which probably have a wider application .
We have , then , the various series of Balmer type , of which the first is given by , 3 , 4 , etc and the series of more general Rydberg type , in which takes the values , etc. , while the higher values approximate to the well-known form , where is an integer .
It may prove crucial that the lower values differ considerably from For general exploratory purposes it may be useful to note that the numbers , , etc. , are very the whole numbers 2 , 6 , 12 , 20 .
30 , 42 , .
knowledge of the'spectra .
's constant in wave numbers is 109675 , which we may oall N. The question now arises , which of the series of Balmer type in our formula is the one which gives ?
That is to say , shall we take .
as N. 3 , or etc. ?
It makes no difference to the sequence of differences obtained or to the tail of the series , and the only effect on the principal series is to strike out jn succession the lines at the head .
Thus , if we take , and try to represent the experimental wave numbers 15237 , , 23038 , , 27423 , we get , or nearly , and the principal Balmer series is .
If we take we have , or , nearly , * Monthly Notices , R.A.S. , ' vol. 73 , pp. 67 and We may summarise the results by saying that within a nucleus possessing the usual positive electronic charge and possessing fixed netic moment of the value attributed to the neton , we may have approximately permanent orbits of corpuscles with the usual value of which give rise to series of spectral lines of recognised type .
They are probably diffuse and have no structure .
orbits also give rise to eries of the same eneral character .
These are not expressible in so concise a form ; the number of lines is limited and may be expected to possess a fourfold structure .
Here we may consider the question of the Zeeman effect .
The form of equation for the equatorial orbits shows at once that the Zeeman effect of the usual type may be expected to arise .
But the orbits of the same angular momentum , although affected by an external magnetic do not give structural Zeeman effect , but only an additional general .
diffuseness .
The radius of this nucleus required to give suitable optical values is of order , which is considerably smaller than the usual estimate of the atomic radius .
The wave-length of the rapidly damped disturbance communicated by this nucleus to the exterior is , which is rather smaller than the value assigned to .
characteristic Rontgen radiation .
It is , however , not a little curious that the wave-length of the radiation from a corpuscle jnst :outside the nucleus comes out about 2 , and this is sufficiently near gnetic WPerfectly Conducting Tube .
By L. SILBERSTEIN , Ph. D. , Lecturer in Natural Philosophy at the University of Rome .
Communicated by Prof. A. W. Porter , F.R.S. Received December 5 , 1914 .
) The problem of waves in conducting tubes has already been treated by various authors .
* Nevertheless , the solutions here proposed , offering certain peculiarities with respect to the veIociGy of the corresponding waves , and partly also with respect to the shape .
and distribution of t , he lines of orce , seemed worthy of notice .
Let be measured along the axis of an infinite right cylindrical tube of circular section .
The material of the tube is assumed to be a perfect conductor , its interior being empty or filled with air .
The eJectromagnetic waves will be assumed throughout to be axially symmetrical and of permanent type , i.e. to conserve their features while proceeding along the tube .
If be the distance of a point from the axis , further , and the * J. J. Thomson , 'Recent Researches in Electricity and tism , ' 1893 ; Iord Bayleigh , 'Phil .
Nag vol. 43 , p. 125 ( 1897 ) ; R. H. Weber , 'Ann .
der Phy vol. 8 , p. 721 ( 1902 ) .
An account of the experimental investigations by .
Lang , Drude and Becker will be found in a paper by A. Kalahne , 'Ann .
der ' vol. 18 , p. Kalahne 's theoretical investigations concern only a tube .

