1878 .
] On the Life-History of Spirillum .
IX .
" On the Life-History of Spirillum .
" By Patrick Geddes and J. Cossar Ewart , M.D. Edin .
, University College , London .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received June 20 , 1878 .
Notwithstanding the numerous and fruitful researches which have been recently made into the life:history of Bacteria , our knowledge of the common and interesting curved and spiral forms\#151 ; the Vibrio* and mpjrillum of Ehrenberg\#151 ; has made little or no advance since his time , neither embryonic nor reproductive forms having ever been observed while even the zoogloea phase , so characteristic of Bacterium and Bacillus , has only once been mentioned , t and then in a different form .
A fresh-water aquarium , which has been stagnating since last summer in the Physiological Laboratory of University College , contained in winter vast numbers of ordinary motile Spirillum .
On recently re-examining the water , one zoogloea film after another having in the meantime formed on the surface , thickened , broken , and sunk , we found that these motile forms had almost disappeared , while the films consisted almost entirely of resting Spirillum in a gelatinous-looking matrix , similar to that of Bacterium and Bacillus .
Among these were two or three apparently distinct kinds of filaments , some resting and colourless , others motile , and filled with highly refracting bright yellowish-brown spheres .
Such a field is represented in fig. 1 .
The glcea had , even to the naked eye , a brownish tint , which under the microscope was distinctly traceable to the Spirilla , the matrix being also faintly tinged .
When a fragment was mounted , water very rapidly revived the perfectly quiescent organisms at the tom edges .
These , after some efforts , succeeded in disengaging themselves , and in a few seconds were darting to and fro , fully motile .
The rapidity and extent of this change from the resting to the motile condition , which we have witnessed again and again , was of extraordinary interest and beauty .
When crowded into a narrow space , th ?
motile Spirilla showed their bright brown madder tint very intensely\#151 ; a single one , unless very carefully examined , appearing | colourless ( fig. 1 ) . .
, The resting Spirilla are of very various shapes , some singly ben , others slightly curved at one or both ends , and others coi e \#169 ; corkscrews of two or more turns ( fig. 1 ) .
We were much astonished [ Plates 11 , 12 .
] longer be used as a generic term , t Lankester , " Quart .
Joum .
Micr .
Sci. , " vol. xiii , p* 424 .
482 P. Geddes and J. C. Ewart on [ June 20 , to note that amongst these lay short , comma-shaped forms ( fig. 11 ) , the head of the " comma " exactly resembling in size and colour the yellowish-brown spheres contained in the long motile filaments above mentioned .
Every possible gradation in size and curvature existing between the smallest comma and the longest spiral , the explanation at once suggested itself that here we had the germination of spores into Spirilla .
The adult resting forms might often easily be mistaken for germinating spores ; but , by careful focussing , the apparent spore is resolved into a mere twist or upturned end , and we have therefore specially studied and carefully figured such possible sources of fallacy ( fig. 12 ) .
The spore-bearing hyphae , to the study of which we were thus led , may be next described .
They were of enormous length and constantly in motion , the shorter progressing with a strange , unsteady , forward movement ; the longer , like intertwisting snakes , convoluting into loops , knots , and spirals , to form a motile mycelium ( fig. 1 ) .
After remaining entire for a considerable time they break up into longer and shorter , still motile , segments which may again divide ( fig. 7 ) .
We have repeatedly observed a filament , as it crept along , sowing its own spores , which either escaped at the end or through the walls , leaving slightly smaller clear vacuoles in the cellulose , to show where they had lain ( fig. 7a ) .
In all other cases in the vegetable kingdom , so far as we know , save two other Bacterial forms , * the spores or seeds may have the means of active or passive locomotion , but the parent organism , at least , is always quiescent ; here the reverse holds good , but the same end is gained\#151 ; the parent being locomotive and the spores quiescent .
The development of the filaments and their relation to the resting and motile spirals we next endeavoured to ascertain .
In various preparations , especially in those kept at a temperature of 25 ' 0 .
, we found some long irregularly-curved Spirilla ( fig. 2 ) , and associated with these , and often scarcely distinguishable from them , were delicate wavy filaments , which were slowly changing their form ( fig. 3 ) , sometimes straightening , sometimes looping , but often recurring to the Vibrio-like type ( fig. 3 ) .
These increased in length and thickness , and became motionless ( fig. 45 ) , and their protoplasm gradually condensed into clear round spheres , which were at first almost colourless , but became tinged with yellow , which deepened into the characteristic brown , the filament then returning to the motile condition .
The young spores were at first arranged with some regularity ( fig. 4c ) , but this disappeared as they ripened and divided .
The process of division is very remarkable , dumbbell-shaped , triradiate , and budding masses occurring together in the same filament , the resulting spores being * ( 1 .
) Bacterium rubescens .
Lankester , " Quart .
Joum .
Micr .
Sci. , " vol. xvi .
( 2 .
) Bacillus from sea water described by one of us in the preceding paper .
1878.1 the Life-History of Spirillum .
483 often unequal in size ( fig. 6 ) .
Such irregularity of division very often also takes place outside the filaments ( fig. 14 ) .
When naturally sown in the gloea , in the way above described , the spores encapsulate themselves , and very often , if not always , divide into two or more sporules ( fig. 8a ) .
The capsules may remain isolated or also divide , forming patches of two or three ( fig. 86 ) , or along with others , uniting into large irregularly cohering masses ( fig. 13c ) .
Sometimes , also , many may be enclosed in a definite Cellulose envelope ( fig. 8 d ) ; this last perhaps arising , like a colony of Gloeocapsa , from the division of a single spore .
When old , the capsules may lose their pale blue colour , and even become suffused with dingy brown .
The sporules may either desert the capsules ( fig. 8e ) , leaving vacuoles , as in the ripe filaments , such empty capsules being found in great numbers ; or may cause them to become actively motile , their motion being either corkscrew-like or direct without revolution ; in the former case resembling a Spirillum , in the latter a monad .
On escaping from the capsule , the sporules appear generally to rise to the surface , forming large dark granular masses ( fig. 10 ) .
A nutritive fluid , prepared by boiling a piece of zoogloea in some water taken from the aquarium , was inoculated with these surface sporules and placed on the warm stage .
Twenty-four hours after , many of the brown sporules were sending out a small curved hypha , at first slightly tinged , while later , distinct " commas , " and even young Spirilla , were developed .
It is of great interest that we occasionally found a large , very finely granular sphere of the characteristic colour ( fig. 9 ) , while smaller and coarser masses were more abundant ( fig. 9b ) , affording a transition to the common sporule cyst .
These correspond to the smaller " macro-plasts " figured by Lankester , * iif his Bacterium rubescens , and to the finely granular colourless spheres , figured by one of us in the preceding paperf from a species of Bacillus .
These probably result , as in Bacillus , from the long-continued subdivision of a single spore or sporule .
, .
o The division of the spores inside and outside the filaments is ot great interest , and goes far to prove the unspeoialised and Protean nature of Bacterial forms , almost all possible modes of division being found in the same field .
Some divide transversely into two equal parts , others bud like Torulce , others again lengthen into rod-like and Vibrio-Hike forms , and then break up into three or four portions ( figs. 13 and 14 ) .
The life-history of Spirillum , so far as we at present know , may be thus summarised .
The well-known motile corkscrew may alternate * " Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , " vol. xvi , Plate 3 .
t Plate 10 , Series IV , e f g. 484 On the Life-History of Spirillum .
[ June 20 , between the active and resting states , and ultimately lengthen out into a small filament , which loses its definite twist and may freely bend or straighten .
This thread grows into a much larger and longer motion-less filament , in which spores appear .
These rapidly divide and acquire a bright brown colour , the filament reassuming the motile condition , and sooner or later breaking up .
The freed spores encyst and divide , forming capsules , which after a period of quiescence themselves become motile , the sporules contained in them escape and germinate into " commas , " which become and soon grow into the common motile Spirillum .
The resemblance of all this to the life-history of termo and Bacillus described in the preceding paper is at once apparent .
Not only is there the same alternation of a resting with a motile phase , bat there is a lengthening into filaments the protoplasm of which condenses into spores which divide and germinate .
Moreover , there are also moving filaments , and finely granular spheres , while the resemblance to B. rubescens is even more striking .
That the deeply coloured spherules , figured by Lankester in the filaments and capsules , and described as " loculi , " as well as the so called " sulphur-granules " of Cohn , * correspond to our " spores " is extremely probable , although their germination has not yet been observed .
EXPLANATION OE PLATES .
Plate 11 .
Figure 1 .
The left half of the drawing represents a portion of a large gloea film of .
resting Spirillum , containing also ( 1 ) a motile mycelium of spore-bearing filaments , ( 2 ) many spore capsules , grouped and isolated .
On the left are free active Spirilla , which have disengaged themselves from the film ; at ( a ) they are crowded , showing a distinct brown colour ; at ( J ) , where the liquid is drying up , is shown the intertwisting of the longer spirals , which not unfrequently occur .
Many motile spore capsules are shown , also a filament breaking up .
Figure 2 .
Spirilla beginning to lengthen into filaments .
Figure 3 .
Young filaments still freely motile .
Figure 4 .
( a. ) Similar young motile filaments .
( 6 .
) More fully developed filaments , no longer motile .
( c. ) A filament , of which the protoplasm is condensing into round faintly* coloured spores .
Figure 5 .
Two successive drawings of a ripe motile filament .
Plate 12 .
Figure 6 .
Part of a mature motile filament , showing the irregular size and arrangement of the budding and dividing spores , also empty spaces whence spores have been dropped ( a ) .
Figure 7 .
Successive sketches of a filament breaking up .
( a. ) Spaces occupied by spores .
* " Beitrage zur Biol. d. Pfl .
, " 3 , 1875 .
GecLcLes ScEwcurb .
Proo .
Roy .
SooYot21.Pl.il G\amp ; cULes faiJEwcurt .
ProCs .
Roy .
SoC'.YoIs .
27.PZ.12 i co ?
\#174 ; * ** \#187 ; t\#187 ; \#171 ; - Ox : .
\#171 ; v 1878 .
] Prof. Stokes .
Ratio of Dispersions .
485 Figure 8 .
( a. ) Spores encapsulating and dividing .
( b. ) A small group of capsules .
( c. ) A large group of capsules .
( rf .
) A group of capsules surrounded by a common envelope .
( e. ) Sporules escaping from their capsules .
( f. ) Large empty capsules .
( g. ) Phases undergone by a single capsule .
Figure 9 .
( a. ) Large finely granular brown sphere .
( J. ) Smaller coarsely granular spheres .
Figure 10 .
Patch of naked spores from surface of liquid .
Figure 11 .
Spores germinating into Spirilla , at first comma-shaped .
Figure 12 .
Spirilla resembling germinating spores .
Figure 13 .
Successive drawings of a portion of same filament , showing extreme irregularity of division of spores .
Figure 14 .
Irregular division outside filament\#151 ; ( a ) and ( 5 ) , naked ; ( o ) within capsule .
X. " On an Easy and at the same time Accurate Method of Determining the Ratio of the Dispersions of Glasses intended for Objectives .
" By Professor Gr .
Gr .
Stokes , M.A. , Sec. R.S. Received June 18 , 1878 .
In examining the dispersive powers of a great variety of glasses prepared hy the late Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt , I had occasion to examine several prisms which were too much striated to show clearly even the boldest dark lines of the solar spectrum .
I found that I was able to get a fair measure of the dispersive powers even of these by a method depending on the achromatizing of one prism by another .
If the method succeeded even with such prisms , it stands to reason that it would be still more successful with prisms of good glass .
For the construction of an objective we require but one datum as regards the dispersions , namely , the r\amp ; tio of the dispersions , or rather , the ratio which on being treated as if it were the ratio of the dispersions gives the best results in practice .
If it were not for irrationality , the matter would be comparatively simple .
The ratio of the dispersions would then be the same for whatever interval of the spectrum it were taken ; and we should merely have to take two well-defined lines , bright or dark , situated as nearly as may be at the extremities of the spectrum , so that any errors of observation should be divided by as large a quantity as practicable , to measure the refractive indices of the two glasses for each of those two lines , and to take the ratio of the increments in passing from one line to the other .
But in consequence of irrationality we get a different ratio according to the particular interval we choose ; we are obliged , unless we adopt some different method altogether , to observe more than two lines in each glass ; and when we have got the results ,

