400 Cause of Period of Chemical Induction .
" Note on the Cause of the Period of Chemical Induction in tin Union of Hydrogen and Chlorine .
" By I ) .
L. Chapman am C. H. Burgess , Demonstrators in Chemistry in the University of Manchester .
Communicated by Professor H. B. Dixon F.R.S. Received January 14 , \#151 ; Read January 26 , 1905 .
The induction period , which , in certain circumstances , is observer !
when a mixture of hydrogen and chlorine is exposed to light , has beer commonly attributed to the preliminary formation of an unstable intermediate compound .
The authors have for some time held that this view does not accord with the observed facts .
This contention i ?
confirmed by recent experiments , which have established that the phenomenon in question is due to the presence in the gas ( or in the aqueous solution in contact with it ) of substances capable of reacting , with chlorine .
At an early stage in the investigation it was proved that the retardation of chemical action did not depend on any condition of the hydrogen , thus making it only necessary to consider the condition ot the chlorine itself and of the other substances immediately in contact with it .
Water , and particularly solutions of salts in water , possess the power of rendering active chlorine inactive towards hydrogen .
On long contact with chlorine in the presence of light , or on boiling with chlorine , these solutions lose this property even after subsequent removal of the chlorine by exhaustion .
Numerous experiments have recently been made in order to find out if these solutions recover their power of rendering chlorine inactive , and it has been found that the only method of effecting this is by the introduction of substances which react with chlorine .
Of the compounds investigated the most efficient to use for this purpose is ammonia , minute traces of which are capable of preventing the action between hydrogen and chlorine for a period of time many times longer than had been previously observed .
Sulphur dioxide acts in the same sense as ammonia , but it is more easily removed on exposure to light .
It has been hitherto supposed that an active mixture of hydrogen and chlorine , after standing in the dark for several hours , returned to its original inactive condition .
If this were really the case it would be an objection to the view that the induction period is due to the presence of impurities .
By the employment of a quartz actinometer we have , however , succeeded in showing that no decay of activity takes place , and , after keeping the mixture for days in the dark , the gases immediately combine on exposure to light\#151 ; without any period of gradual acceleration .

