]\gt ; Mr. L. N. G. Filon .
On the Resistance 6 .
The amount of absorption produced by a given thickness of a solution of a metallic salt is not proportional to the amount of salt in solution , but appears to follow approximately a logarithmic 7 .
The amount of absorption varies logarithmically with the thickness of the solution traversed by the rays .
The percentage absorption may be represented by an equatio of the form where is a constant depending on the nature of the solution , and on the penetrative power of the X rays , and is the thickness of the solution traversed .
It is to be noticed that all the above tables and conclusions are based on measurements made with solutions containing the equivalent wsight of the salts , in grams per litre , so that the moleoular absorption of the saIts with divalent or trivalent bases is greater than that indicated in the tables .
The conclusions 1 , 5 , and 7 , given above , are in exact agreement with those stated by Dr. Gladstone and Mr. Hibbert in their articles in the ' Chemical News ' ( loc. umerous references have been made throughout this paper to their rticles and reports before the British Association , though it was not until the bove investigations were nearly completed that attention drawn to the work that been done by them .
" " On the Resistance to of certain orms of Shafting , with special eference to the Effect of Keyways By L. N. G. ILON , , Research Student of College , Cambridge , Fellow of University , London , 1851 Exhibition Science esearch Scholar .
Communicated by Professor M. J. .
HILL .
lleceived June \mdash ; Iiead June 15 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present paper is to )tain solutions of the problem of Torsion for certain , whose cross-sections are bounded by confocal conics .
It is mainly an extension of de 's in- vestigations , and is based upon his general equations of torsion .
The method employed depends upon the use of conjugate functions and , such that const .
represents confocal ellipses and const .
confocal hyperbolas .
The use of conjugate functions for the torsion problem has been suggested by Thomson and Tait , Clebsch , and by Boussinesq .
* ' Nabural Philosophy .
' : Theory der Elasticitat ster Korper , ' SS 'Journal dc Mathematiques , ' pp. 177\mdash ; 186 , serie 3 , vol. 6 .
to of forms of Shaflinr ' .
Clebsch has used such elliptic co-ordinates to solve the torsion problem for hollow cylinders bounded by confocal , and de Saint-Venant has applied conjugate functions to the same problem for shafts whose sections are sectors of circles ; curvilinear co-ordinates have also been employed by Mr. H. M. Macdonald , but I am not aware that the actual solution has yet been obtalned for sections bounded by both ellipses and hyperbolas .
The work proceeds on lines allalogous to those developed by SaintVenant himself in his solution of the problem of torsion for the of rectangular cross-section .
The strains and stresses expressible in terms of infinite series involving circular and hyperbolic functions .
The boundaries of the section are given by constant values of and .
The values of are taken to be The conditions from which the unknown quantity ( the shift par allel to the axis ) is determined are throughout the sections ; and along the boundary , where an element of the outwards normal to the boundary , is the angle of torsion per unit length , and are the direction-cosines Now in the present case where at the boundary where const .
and at the boundary where const .
, the sign being determined so that is ositive .
By adding suitable terms to ?
, we can reduce one or other of the boundary conditions to the form where suitable terms .
Suppose we make xpanding now in tho form of a series , * ' .
the sional k ) tl.ength of a Hollow Shaft 'Proc .
Camb .
Phil. Soo vol. 8 , 1893 , pp. nalogous to that for Fourier 's series .
Comparing coefficients , we obtain relations which determine completely all the constants in the expression of ?
is then known .
The shears and torsion moment are deduced by differentiation and a double integration .
The cross-sections which are dealt with in the present paper , are of very great generality , and they include as special cases many of the cross-sections which Saint-Venant has worked out , for instance the rectangle and the sector of a circle .
The first section of which I treat is that bounded by an ellipse and two confocal hyperbolas .
Although the analysis is worked out for the case where the two hyperbolic segments are not symmetrical , I have not given any numerical examples of this case , as the sections obtained by taking two hyperbolas curved the same way do not correspond to any interesting practical case : the section is too broad at the ends and too narrow at the bend , to be any fair representation of the angle iron .
The section bounded by an ellipse and the two branohes of a confocal hyperbola is , on the other hand , an approximate representat on of a well-known section , much used in engineering practice , the rail section .
This section I have worked out for various values of the eccentricity of the ellipse , and of the angle between the asymptotes of the hyperbola .
The four sections where this angle is 120 give the best representation of the rail section .
The numerical results are tabulated so as to show the ratio of the torsional rigidity of this section to that of the c , ircular section of the same area , and also the same ratio for the maximum stress .
The ratio of these two ratios gives us a kind of measure of the use fulness or " " efficiency\ldquo ; of the section .
In the case of the latter class of sections , I have investigated at length the position of the fail.-points , or points of maximum strain and stress , the maximum strain , the case of torsion , being colnc ] enc with the maximum stress .
It is found that for the two smaller ellipses the maximum stress occurs at the point , where the sect on thinnest .
For the two ellipses , the maximum stress occurs at four points , , symmetrically distributed round the contour , and lying on the broad sides of the section .
The critical sect on , tical when these two cases pass into one another , can be calculated , and is shown in the paper .
to of of The ohanges in the stresses are shown by cllrves the , in which the ) scissa represents the quantity , whose hyperl , ollc .
and sille are proportional to the major and minor axes of the ellipsc respectively , and in hich the ordinates present the divided by the maximunl stress of the clrc]lar section of equal The curves are , in certain parts , only lghly drawn , they suffice to show the manner in which the stresses vary .
It is seen the stress separates from the maxinuun stress after the critical value , and gradually dinlinishes , compared with A and F. This result might have been expected from the i1lvcstigations of de upon certain scctions mded by curves of the fourth degree .
These investigations appear , however , not to ve been sufficiently noticed .
Thomson and Tait in their ophy , ' and Boussinesq his researches on Torsion , both conclude that the failpoints are at the points of the cross-section nearest to the centre , and ssinesq even gives an apparently general proof of this proposition .
His proof , however , is subject to restrictionls , which I point ollt , which prevent it from being applied to the sections I dealing li with .
The sections are sensihly less useful than the circular section , their torsional idity being always diminished the maximllm stress ftell i. This remark , I may add , applies to all the sections dealt in this paper .
Thi usefulness or efficiency decreases as the neck of the section ecomes m narrow , as indeed might have been anticipated .
Other sections worked out are those corresponding tngles between the asymptotes of , and ; in the latter case the sections degenerate into ordinary elliptic sections , with two slraight slits or indefinitely thin keyways , cut into them the major axis , as far as the foci .
The stress at the foci , however , is then theoretically finlte .
It is interesting to see how , as we make the bend round the focl bhal'per , the values of , for which the two fail-points bre up Ilto four , become larger and larger , mtil , the aIlgle 1etween the symptotes of the hyperbolas is less than , the greatest stress occurs at the neck of the section .
The limiting case of such sections , when the le between the symptotes is very small , and the eccentricity of the ellipse nearly mity , the distance between the foci being very great , gives us the rectangle .
I then pass on to the section bounded by one ellipse and one confocad hyperbola .
the limiting case , when the foci colnclde , we obtain the sector of a circle .
Of this I worked out 1lumerically three in each case king two ellipses .
1 .
The semi-ellipse .
* Journal de Mathematiqes , ' , p. 200 .
VOL. 2 .
The ellipse with into it of the shape of a rectangular confocal hyperbola .
3 .
The ellipse with : singlc slit cut into it .
The most striking of the results is inJ'eference to the reduction of the torsional idity of the cllipse in .
This reduction of igidity decreases rapidly as the depth of the nptch decreases .
The rigidity , which is reduced by as much as 23 per cent. when the depth of the keylvay is as as ( semi-major axis ) , falls to about 1 per cent. when this depth is ( semi-major axis ) .
Possibly his may throw some light on the fact that the effect of cutting such slits into the material does not always give in practice the reduction in the torsional rigidity which should have been expected from Saint-Venant 's results for the circle .
Clearly the depth of the keyway is a factor of the very first importance , and keyways of mode- rate depth will produce a comparatively small effect on the torsional t'igidity .
It is also shown that the effect of cutting two equal and opposite slits is practically equal , in the two cases which I havs calculated namely and , to twice the effect of a single slit .
It seems , therefore , that the study of these sections brings to light several interesting facts in the theol.y of elasticity , and will well repay the trouble involved in dealing with the long and somewhat tedious algebra and arithmetic which lead to these results . .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
Professor W. F. rrett and .
J. S. Gamble were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursllance of the Statutes , notice of the ensning Anniversary , Ieeting was givcn from the Chair .
Professor Ieldola , Professor Perry , and Dr. H. Scott were by ballot elected Auditors of the Treasurer 's accounts on the part of the ociety .
The following Papers published during the reoess , in full or in stract , with the Standing Orders of mcil , were read i11 titlc :\mdash ;

