Passage of Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
103 300 years , the approximate dates being 1700 b.c. and 1400 b.c. respectively .
This sequence is confirmed by the structure of the circles themselves as plotted by Borlase .
I have to thank Mr. Thomas for his local observations , and Mr. Rolston , of the Solar Physics Observatory , for assistance in the discussion and computing the various declinations .
On the Passage of Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
By J. A. Crowther , B.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge , Mackinnon Student of the Royal Society .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received December 22 , 1908 , \#151 ; Read January 14 , 1909 .
) Introduction .
The present work is a continuation of a previous research on the Secondary Rontgen Radiation from Gases and Vapours.* It was there shown that while for gases and vapours containing only elements of small atomic weight the secondary radiation was simply proportional to the density of the gas , those containing elements of higher atomic weight , and notably compounds of arsenic and bromine , gave off quantities of secondary radiation greater out of all proportion than what would be expected from their density .
It was also shown that while the secondary radiation from the first class of substances had approximately the same penetrating power as the primary rays producing it , the secondary radiation from the second class was generally of a considerably softer character .
A third class of substances , including stannic chloride and methyl iodide , gave off secondary rays , the hardness of which was equal to that of the primary , while their intensity , which , however , varied with the hardness of the primary rays , was intermediate between that of the first and second classes .
It was thought that a further investigation of the phenomena attending the passage of Rontgen rays through these different classes of gases and vapours might possibly lead to some interesting results .
* 'Phil .
Mag. , ' [ 6 ] , vol. 14 , p. 653 , 1907 .
104 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On Passage oj [ Dec. 22 , The phenomena which it was proposed to measure were :\#151 ; ( i ) the absorption of the primary rays by the gas ; ( ii ) the ionisation produced in the gas by the passage of the rays ; ( iii ) the secondary radiation given out by the gas .
Of the first two quantities , determinations have already been made by various experimenters , for some of the commoner gases and a few vapours .
Thus Rutherford , * in the early days of X-ray work , measured both the coefficients of absorption and the relative ionisations of some dozen different substances .
In addition to this , determinations of the relative ionisation in different gases and vapours have been made by Perrin , t J. J. Thomson^ Strutt , S McClung , || and Eve .
H Many of these measurements , however , were made without any care being taken to prevent the Rontgen rays from falling on the sides of the ionisation chamber and on the electrodes themselves .
Under such circumstances , as we shall show later , a large proportion of the ionisation in the gas is due , not to the X-rays themselves , but to soft secondary ^-radiation from the material of the walls and the electrodes .
The amount of this secondary ionisation will depend upon the material and construction of the vessels used .
Since the soft ^-radiation is practically totally absorbed in the gas , its effect is in every case to add a nearly constant amount to the ionisation produced by the Rontgen rays , and thus to reduce the apparent relative ionisation , in gases which are more ionised than air .
The experiments of Prof. Thomson , and of McClung , which were free from this objection , unfortunately did not include the gases whose behaviour it was most desired to study .
Moreover , as the experiments of the latter conclusively showed , the relative ionisation of any gas compared with air is not a constant , but depends upon the nature of the X-rays employed .
As there is at present no very satisfactory way of standardising Rontgen rays , or of comparing results obtained by different observers , it was felt that the only possible way of obtaining a set of comparable results was to determine the whole of the quantities concerned at the same time and with the same apparatus .
Apparatus .
The apparatus employed was , in the main , the same as that used in the previous experiments , and described in detail in the previous paper , certain * Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag./ [ Y ] , 43 , p. 241 , 1897 .
+ * Ann. de Chimie et de Phys./ [ 7 ] , vol. 11 , p. 496 , 1897 .
I ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc./ vol. 10 , p. 10 , 1900 .
S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 72 , p. 209 , 1903 .
|| 'Phil .
Mag./ [ 6 ] , vol. 8 , p. 357 , 1904 .
1 'Phil .
Mag./ [ 6 ] , vol. 8 , p. 610 , 1904 .
1908.1 Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
105 alterations and additions being made to allow of the measurement of the ionisation and absorption in the gas , in addition to the secondary radiation .
^ The gases , as before , were contained in two similar brass boxes A , A ' ( fig. 1 ) arranged symmetrically with respect to the focus tube F. The rays enter by the thin aluminium windows c , c ' , and a portion of the secondary rays pass upwards through aluminium windows d , d ' into two cylindrical ionisation chambers B , B .
A portion of the primary beam , after traversing the length of the box , passes out through a third aluminium window e , as is shown in the plan of the apparatus given in fig. 2 , and is measured in the ionisation chamber P. The amount of absorption of the rays in the gas can thus be determined .
To determine the ionisation produced in the gas by the passage of the rays , electrodes were inserted in the gas chambers A , A ' themselves .
In order to avoid intercepting any primary rays , these took the form of parallel plates of aluminium r , s , r ' , s ' placed at opposite sides of the boxes , and outside the path of the primary rays .
The electrodes were insulated from the walls of the boxes ( which were earthed ) by quartz tubes , the joints being made 106 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On Passage of [ Dec. 22 , '-\gt ; 5 .
" \#166 ; : air-tight with sealing wax , and , except in the case of one or two vapours when near their saturation pressure , no trouble was experienced from insulation leaks .
The plates s , s ' were charged to a high potential by a battery of storage cells ; the others , r , r ' which were surrounded by earthed guard rings , were connected to a Wilson electroscope .
The whole of the Vo Cells Fig. 2 .
apparatus was made in duplicate , one of the boxes being filled with air and kept as a standard .
The different ionisation chambers were connected in pairs to three Wilson inclined electroscopes , each chamber in the one set being connected , together with its duplicate in the other , to a separate instrument .
By means of highly insulating keys , which could be operated from a distance , it was arranged that either the test chamber , or the corresponding standard , could be connected at will with the electroscope .
By measuring the current through first one and then the other , the ratio of the ionisation in the test chamber to that in the standard could be accurately obtained .
For a Wilson electroscope , where the zero and the sensitiveness are both liable to fluctuation , this method of comparing two ionisation currents is both more convenient and more accurate than the use of two separate instruments .
The appliances for measuring the pressures in the two chambers , and for introducing the various gases and vapours , were the same as those employed in the previous paper , and fully described there .
The various connections and keys were shielded from induction effects in the usual way , by earthed metal tubes .
1908.1 Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
107 Experiments .
The actual experiments were performed in various ways , according to the nature of the observations which it was desired to make .
At least one set of experiments was made with each substance in which simultaneous readings were made of the relative ionisation , coefficient of absorption and secondary radiation , so as to avoid all possibility of any difference in quality of the rays employed .
In other cases , when some particular point was to be investigated , as , for example , the variation of the relative ionisation with pressure , it was found more convenient to make the desired observations by themselves , the quality of the rays being regulated by the length of the spark gap , which was just sufficient to extinguish the bulb .
In practice it was found that , using the same coil and the same Bontgen bulb , this control was quite sufficient , and readings could always be repeated by bringing the bulb back to the same equivalent spark gap .
It was not found possible , however , to compare the hardness of different bulbs by this method , as two bulbs having the same equivalent spark gap would give out rays of apparently very different character .
In order to afford some idea of the meaning of the different values given in this paper for equivalent spark lengths , it may be mentioned that X-rays began to be given out in appreciable quantity when the equivalent spark gap was about 0*6 cm .
At this stage the whole bulb was filled with a bluish glow .
This glow disappeared when the equivalent spark gap had increased to about 1*2 or 1*3 cm .
, and the green phosphorescence of the walls was then alone visible .
At an equivalent spark gap of about 2-6 to 2*8 cm .
the coil ( a large Budge coil working with a hammer break ) ceased to send any discharge through the bulb .
Ionisation and Pressure .
The ionisation produced in a gas by the passage of Bontgen rays , in the absence of any secondary radiation , should be proportional to the mass of the gas present , that is , if the temperature is constant , to the pressure of the gas .
On the other hand , as was shown in the previous paper in the cases of air and carbon dioxide ( and has since been confirmed for the more powerful radiators ) , the energy of the penetrating secondary radiation is also simply proportional to the pressure of the gas ; and thus the ionisation produced by it in the radiating gas itself should be proportional to the square of the pressure .
We should expect that any soft secondary radiation which might be emitted would follow the same law , so long as it was sufficiently penetrating to reach the walls of the gas chamber .
If , however , owing to the softness Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On Passage of [ Dec. 22 , .
of the radiation , the distance of the boundaries , or the pressure of the gas , , the radiation was totally absorbed in the gas before reaching the boundaries , , the ionisation produced by it would depend solely on its intensity , i.e. , it-would be simply proportional to the pressure , and the whole ionisation in the gas would again follow a simple pressure law .
Neglecting , for the-moment , the penetrating secondary radiation , we should expect that if any soft secondary radiation were present the ionisation in the gas would , , at high pressures , be simply proportional to the pressure .
Then , as the pressure was reduced , and the absorption of the rays in the gas became less and less , a point would be reached when the secondary rays began to reach the electrodes , and the ionisation would then vary more rapidly than the pressure .
Experiments were made with various gases to test these conclusions .
The electrodes in the gas chambers were placed some distance from the front window in order to avoid the soft secondary radiation from the aluminium .
The rays had thus to pass through a certain thickness of gas before reaching the electrodes , and a certain amount of absorption occurred .
Knowing , however , from other measurements , the coefficient of absorption of the gas for the rays , it was easy to calculate the amount of this absorption at any given pressure , and to apply the necessary correction .
This has been done in all cases , in the results given below .
The first observations , made with the electrodes at opposite sides of the-gas chamber , failed to reveal any departure from a simple pressure law .
It was thought , however , that this might be due to the secondary rays being so* soft as to be unable to penetrate to the boundaries of the gas , even at the lowest pressures used .
The distance between the plates was , therefore , , reduced to 5 mm. , the primary beam being limited by a lead slit 1*2 mm. wide , so that the rays still passed between the plates without striking them .
With this arrangement , a penetration of only 2 mm. would have sufficed to allow some of the soft secondary rays to reach the boundaries of the gas .
Some of the curves obtained are shown in fig. 3 .
For convenience in representation , the ordinates , in the case of methyl iodide , have been considerably reduced .
The curves obtained for ethyl bromide and methyl iodide at low pressures are shown on an enlarged scale in fig. 3a .
It will be seen that although experiments were made with air down to a pressure of 10 mm. , and with methyl iodide and ethyl bromide with pressures as low as 0'7 mm. and 0*2 mm. respectively , the curves obtained are perfectly straight ( except in so far as the curve for ethyl bromide is influenced at high pressures by the ionisation due to the penetrating secondary Kflntgen / ontza tion 1908 .
] Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
109 radiation ) , and there is no evidence of any departure from a simple pressure law .
The experiments were repeated with ethyl chloride and methyl bromide with similar results .
We must assume , therefore , that the soft secondary radiation from a gas is either too absorbable to penetrate 2 mm. of the gas even at these low pressures , or as on the whole seems more probable , that the ionisation produced by it , compared with that due to the direct action of the primary beam , is too small to have any appreciable effect on " FVe.ssv.re ----------------\#166 ; ' Fig. 3.\#151 ; Ionisation\#151 ; Pressure Curves .
the shape of the curves .
In this case the bulk of the ionisation in a gas must be due to the direct action of the primary rays .
It is well known that when Rontgen rays fall upon a solid body they cause it to emit soft secondary rays in very appreciable amounts .
Unless the action of the Rontgen rays upon the gaseous molecule differs very materially from its action upon the molecule in the solid state , the above result would appear to show that the soft secondary ionising radiation emitted by solids only represents a very small part of the whole effect of the primary rays ; the 110 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On the Passage of [ Dec. 22 , bulk of the secondary rays , that is to say the portion which in a gas manifests itself as direct ionisation , being too soft to ionise .
The penetrating secondary radiation is in most cases too small in amount to make any appreciable alteration in the ionisation pressure curves .
Barkla* has shown that the energy of the secondary radiation from a cubic centimetre of air at atmospheric pressure is only about 0-00024 that of the primary beam .
Taking this value as approximately correct , we see that even / oo *---- Pressure .
Fig. 3a.\#151 ; Ionisation\#151 ; Pressure .
Low Pressures .
in the case of ethyl bromide , which gives the maximum amount of radiation of any of the gases employed , the energy of the secondary radiation at a pressure of 160 mm. of mercury is only about 3 per cent , of that of the primary beam .
Since the secondary is in this case about three times as absorbable as the primary beam , the amount of secondary ionisation should be about *9 per cent , of that produced by the primary rays at the pressure * 'Phil .
Mag. , ' [ 6 ] , vol. 7 , page 543 , 1904 .
Ill 1908 .
] Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
named .
It is evident , therefore , that for air , carbon tetrachloride , or even methyl iodide , it would be quite inappreciable .
On turning to fig. 3 , it will be seen that the upward tendency in the ionisation-pressure curve for ethyl bromide is quite marked , and from the magnitude of its departure from a straight line , it is easy to deduce that at a pressure of 160 mm. of mercury , the ionisation due to the secondary rays is about 16 per cent , of that due to the primary .
As the secondary rays , being scattered in all directions , traversed the whole of the gas between the electrodes , while the primary beam , in order to avoid any possibility of its striking the electrodes , was only allowed to pass through the central portion of the gas , the agreement is sufficiently satisfactory .
Absorption of the Primary Rays .
When Kontgen rays pass through a gas they are more or less absorbed by it .
In order to measure this absorption it is necessary and sufficient to find the ratio of the ionisation current through P ' to that through P when the gas Fig. 4.\#151 ; Absorption Curves .
VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; A. I Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On Passage of [ Dec. 2\#163 ; , chamber A ' is , first , evacuated , and , second , filled with the gas under observation .
The first gives a measure of the initial intensity I0 of the beam ; the second the intensity I after passing through the gas .
Experiments were made with the different gases at different pressures , and the values thus obtained for logi01/ I0 are plotted against the pressures in fig. 4 .
The amount of absorption was found to vary considerably with the hardness of the rays , and a certain amount of difficulty was experienced in keeping the bulb quite constant during a long series of readings .
It will be seen , however , that within the limits of experimental error , the curve obtained is in every case a straight line .
The law of absorption is , therefore , exponential and may be written I/ I0 = where p is the pressure of the gas , 7r is the normal atmospheric pressure , d the distance traversed by the rays in the gas , and X a constant which we may call the coefficient of absorption of the rays for the gas .
The values of X for the different gases employed are given for soft and hard rays , in the third and fifth columns of Table I. With the apparatus employed , it was not found possible to measure the coefficients of absorption of air , hydrogen , or carbon dioxide , as the amount , of absorption of the rays in the length of the box ( 20 cm .
) was too small to be appreciable .
It certainly was not more than 2 or 3 per cent. , and this was practically within the limits of experimental error .
In view of the very Table I. Soft rays .
Hard rays .
Secondary radiation .
Relative density .
Relative ionisation .
A. Relative ionisation .
A. Air 1 00 1-00 1 00 1*00 Ho o-oi ... - 0*18 s _ 012 0*07 oo2 1-57 .
_ 1 -49 1-54 1*53 OH3.coa .
OH3 ... C , H^C1 4*95 18 -0 0 02 0-044 3-90 17 -3 4 0-005 ' 0-022 2*72 3*2 2*57 2*24 C.CI4 67*3 0*24 71 0-06 8*6 5*35 Ni(CO)4 89 0*20 97 0-136 8*1 5*90 CoHJBr 72 0-30 118 0-14 217 3*78 OH3Br 71 0*29 \#151 ; 215 3*30 CHoI 146 0-30 125 0-18 41*5 4*96 Hg(CH , )2 425 1-16 \#151 ; 7*93 1908 .
] Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
peculiar behaviour of hydrogen with regard to ionisation by Rontgen rays , which will be described later , it would be very interesting to have a measure of the absorption of hydrogen for rays of varying quality ; and it is hoped to make some experiments on this point in the near future .
Relative Ionisation in Different Gases .
In calculating the relative ionisations for different gases , air was taken as the standard , and all other gases and vapours were compared with air at the same pressure .
Writing A ' and A for the ionisation currents across the two gas chambers , the ratio of the values of A'/ A when A ' is filled first with the gas under observation , and then with air at the same pressure , gives the value of the relative ionisation for the given gas compared with air .
As pointed out in a previous part of the paper , the values thus obtained have to be corrected for the absorption of the rays in the gas before reaching the electrodes .
When the ionisation due to the penetrating secondary radiation from the gas is appreciable , as in the case of ethyl bromide , this has also been corrected for .
It may be mentioned , in passing , that it was found very difficult to " saturate " the current through the more ionisable gases , 120 to 150 volts per centimetre being required to produce even approximate saturation for ethyl bromide or methyl iodide at pressures of 250 mm. In order to attain saturation without applying too high a potential , the electrodes in the vessel A !
were approached to about 2'5 cm .
apart ; the primary beam being limited as before by a lead slit to prevent the rays from falling on either electrodeThe values obtained for the relative ionisation , for soft and hard rays , are ' given in the second and fourth columns respectively of Table I. For purposes of comparison , the amount of secondary radiation , relative to air , is given in the sixth column of the same table , while the seventh contains the relative densities of the different substances .
It is at once evident that there is no close connection between the ionisation and the secondary radiation .
The former , for example , appears to* increase more or less uniformly as we pass to compounds containing elements of higher and higher atomic weight ; the maximum ionisation occurring in .
mercury methyl , the ionisation in which is over 400 times that in air .
The secondary radiation , on the other hand , reaches a maximum in the neighbourhood of bromine , ethyl bromide giving off the largest amount of secondary rays of the gases included in Table I. For ethyl bromide and methyl iodide , the values obtained depend upon the quality of the rays employed , and we-shall consider them in more detail further on .
114 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On Passage of [ Dec. 22 , \#166 ; I .
Prof. Thomson has suggested that the relative ionisation in a gas is an additive property , depending only on the number and nature of the different atoms present .
The values given in column 2 of Table I enable us to test this suggestion .
Using carbon dioxide , air , ethyl chloride , and methyl bromide , together with the value for hydrogen , we obtain , on this assumption , the following values for the ionisation per atom in the different elements concerned:\#151 ; [ H ] = 0-005 , [ 0 ] = 055 , [ C ] = 0-46 , [ Cl ] = 17*0 , [ Br ] = 70*5 .
Using these values , we can now calculate the relative ionisation of methyl acetate , carbon tetrachloride , and ethyl bromide .
The results are contained in the following table:\#151 ; Table II .
CH , C09CHs Relative ionisation .
Calculated .
Observed .
2*52 68-4 71 5 4-95 67-3 72*5 CC14 CoHJJr It will be seen that the agreement is good for carbon tetrachloride and ethyl bromide , but not very satisfactory for methyl acetate .
It appears , therefore , that the ionisation is not altogether independent of the state of combination of the element and the complexity of the molecule .
Assuming , however , that|the law is approximately correct , we obtain from the results in Table I the further values [ Ni ] = 85 , [ I ] = 144 , [ Hg ] = 424 .
It will be noticed that , with the exception of nickel ( which for soft rays gives a some what larger value than bromine ) , the relative ionisation increases steadily with the atomic weight .
If we repeat the calculations , using the values obtained with the harder rays , we obtain similar results .
The discrepancy in the case of methyl acetate is , however , in this ca^e considerably less ; the calculated value of the ionisation being 2*81 , the observed value 3'90 ; and possibly with still harder rays the effect of the complexity of the molecule might disappear altogether .
Variation of the Ionisation with the Hardness of the Bays .
The variation in the relative ionisation due to change in the quality of the ionising Rontgen rays has been previously investigated by McClung* for hydrogen , oxygen , carbon dioxide , and sulphur dioxide .
His results are contained in the following table:\#151 ; * McClung , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' [ 6 ] , vol. 8 , p. 357 , 1904 .
1908 .
] Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
Table III .
Relative ionisation .
Soft rays .
Hard rays .
Air ib 1*0 h2 Oo 0*10 1*80 0*18 1-17 co9 1 *46 1 -33 so2 no 4*8 Comparing these figures with those given in Table I , it will be seen that in the cases of the two gases common to the two tables the results are in general agreement .
The relative ionisation of hydrogen increases with an increase in the hardness of the rays , while that of carbon dioxide diminishes .
The value obtained for the relative ionisation of hydrogen for hard rays in the present experiments coincides with that obtained by McClung .
The value for soft rays is only about one-tenth of the smallest value he obtained , but it is comparable with the value 0*026 obtained by Perrin * The rays in McClung 's experiment entered his apparatus through a recessed aluminium plate , which must have been considerably thicker than the thin foil ( 0*05 mm. thick ) used for the windows in the present experiments .
It is probable , therefore , that the very soft rays which give these very small values for the ionisation of hydrogen were unable to penetrate into his ionisation chamber , being practically all absorbed by the aluminium of the window .
Table IV has been drawn up to show in more detail how the relative ionisation of the hydrogen varies with the hardness of the rays , the hardness being represented , as usual , by the length of the spark gap , which is just sufficient to extinguish the bulb .
Table IV.\#151 ; Hydrogen .
Equivalent spark gap .
Relative ionisation .
mm. 8 0*010 12 0*013 14 0*021 16 0*068 18 0*107 20 0*135 24 0*152 28 0*180 * Perrin , 'Ann .
de Chimie et de Phys.,5 vol. 11 , p. 496 , 1897 .
Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On Passage of [ Dec. 22 , These figures are represented graphically by the curve drawn in fig. 5 .
It will be noticed that the rate of increase is particularly rapid as the equivalent spark gap increases from 14 to 18 mm. Although not so noticeable as in the case of hydrogen , it will be seen from .Table I that the relative ionisation of ethyl bromide also increases as the rays get harder .
Ethyl chloride and carbon tetrachloride remain practically Equivalent S^arJc G-ajo Fig. 5.\#151 ; Ionisation\#151 ; Hardness .
Hydrogen .
constant , while methyl iodide and methyl acetate show a decided decrease as the hardness of the rays increases .
During the progress of the above experiments my attention was somewhat forcibly directed to the necessity for avoiding any contact between the Eontgen rays and the electrodes in all measurements of the relative ionisation produced by these rays in different gases .
Having had occasion to remove the gas chamber A ' to make some necessary repairs , I found on replacing it that the values now obtained for the relative ionisation were considerably smaller than before .
For example , the value for ethyl bromide was reduced from 72 to 29 , and that for methyl iodide from .145 to 54 .
This discrepancy was finally found to be due to the fact that , owing to the vessel A !
having been replaced slightly out of adjustment with respect to the focus tube , the Eontgen rays no longer passed centrally down the vessel , but just grazed one of the electrodes .
1908.1 Riintgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
117 Townsend* and other observers have shown that when Kontgen rays fall on a metal plate they cause it to emit soft secondary radiation , consisting principally of soft ^-radiation , which from its very absorbable nature , produces in the neighbourhood of the plate an amount of ionisation far exceeding that due to the primary rays themselves .
The effect of the secondary radiation on the relative ionisation in different gases is not difficult to see .
If the pressure of the gas is so high that the secondary rays are totally absorbed before reaching the boundaries of the vessel , then , since the total ionisation produced by these rays is not very different in different gases , the effect will be in every case to add a practically constant amount to the ionisation produced by the primary beam , and thus to reduce the apparent relative ionisation in every gas for which the relative ionisation is greater than unity .
On the other hand , since the relative ionisation produced in different gases by ^-radiation is very nearly proportional to the density , if the rays are not totally absorbed by the gas , the result will be in this case to add an amount , proportional to the density , and thus to bring the apparent relative ionisations more nearly into accord with a density law .
In either case there would be a large reduction in the values obtained for the relative ionisation of such vapours as methyl iodide , ethyl bromide , or carbon tetrachloride , compared with air .
By turning the vessel A. ' with respect to the focus tube , so as to allow a larger proportion of the primary beam to impinge on the aluminium electrode , the values obtained for the relative ionisation of ethyl bromide compared with air was further reduced , first to 10 and finally to 3'62 .
This is very nearly equal to the relative density of the gas .
Under these circumstances , the pressure-ionisation curve is no longer a straight line , but bends over towards the axis of pressure , as shown in the curve in fig. 6 , which represents the results obtained for air , with the primary beam grazing one of the aluminium electrodes .
These results throw considerable doubt upon some results of Evef on the relative ionisation produced by very penetrating Rontgen rays , in which he obtained values for the relative ionisations in various gases and vapours agreeing very nearly with a density law .
In these experiments the gases were contained in a cylindrical ionisation chamber of brass with an insulated central wire connected to a gold-leaf electroscope .
In this system the central wire forms one electrode , the walls of the cylinder the other .
As the rays were passed into the chamber straight through the walls of the vessel , it will be seen that they thus impinged directly on both electrodes .
* 'Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 10 , p. 217 , 1899 .
+ Eve , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' [ 6 ] , vol. 8 , p. 610 , 1904 .
Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On Passage of [ Dec. 22 , The conditions were thus favourable for the production of a large amount of secondary ionisation , and its presence is clearly shown by the shape of the curves connecting ionisation and pressure , which are given in Eve 's paper .
These are similar to the curve given in fig. 6 , which represents the relation between ionisation and pressure for air when the rays are allowed to fall upon one of the electrodes .
Eve further states that " the portion of the curve between 18 and 50 mm. [ pressure ] was found to be a straight Pressure Fio .
6 .
line , and the readings for the gases used were taken between these limits .
" A little consideration will show that it is just in these earlier portions of the curve where the amount of the secondary ionisation compared with that of the primary has its largest value .
It is only when the pressure is high enough to produce a total absorption of the secondary rays that the slope of the ionisation-pressure curve assumes the value proper to the primary Rontgen rays .
The curve then has the form I = I#+Io 1908.J Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
119* where I is the ionisation in the gas , I , the ionisation produced by the total absorption of the secondary rays from the walls of the chamber , and I0 .^\gt ; -represents the ionisation produced by the direct action of the primary rays , which , as has been shown above , is proportional to the pressure From the shape of his curves there can be little doubt that , at the lower pressures used by Eve , the ionisation was very largely due to secondary radiation from the walls of his vessel , and that consequently the values given by him in his table refer not to penetrating Eontgen rays , as he supposes , but to the soft secondary rays excited by them in the material of his chamber , that is , , in the main , to soft y9-rays .
There is no evidence that the ionisation produced by penetrating Eontgen rays in different gases follows a density law .
Drawing tangents to Eve's-curves for H2S and air , at the highest pressures given , where , as shown above , , we get an approximation to the true slope for the primary rays , we find the value 4 for the relative ionisation of these two gases , as against 0*9 given in Eve 's table .
Eve was not unaware of the presence of much secondary radiation in his experiments .
He states that " with Eontgen rays there was abundant evidence of secondary and tertiary radiation , " and found that lining the brass cylinder with sheet aluminium 0 85 mm. thick reduced the ionisation current from 100 to 22 .
With the chamber thus lined he repeated his original experiments , and obtained values agreeing with his previous ones , , and concludes from this that " there cannot be any wide divergence between the relative conductivities from primary and secondary rays .
" The results obtained during the present experiments with the rays-striking on the aluminium electrodes show , however , that even aluminium gives off amply sufficient soft secondary rays to entirely mask the effect of the primary ionisation , and that the similarity between the results obtained with the brass , and with the aluminium plated walls , was due not to any similarity between the primary and the secondary rays , but owing to the ionisation produced by the direct action of the primary rays being so small compared with that due to the secondary as to be practically negligible in both cases .
Laby and Kaye* have recently shown that when 7-rays are passed into-a gas through the walls of the containing chamber the ionisation in the gas-is due almost entirely to the ^-radiation from the metal of the walls .
The similarity between the results obtained by Eve for penetrating Eontgen rays and for 7-rays would thus appear to be explained by the fact that in * ' Phil. Mag. , ' December , 1908 , p. 879 .
120 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On Passage of [ Dec. 22 , both cases the bulk of the ionisation was due , not to Rontgen rays or 7-rays , but to secondary / 9-rays from the walls of the containing chamber .
The results of the present experiments on the variation of relative ionisation with the hardness of the rays certainly do not seem to indicate Any approximation to a " density law , " such as Eve suggests , as the rays become harder .
Among the lighter gases , as McClung 's results also showed , the value for hydrogen increases with the hardness of the rays to a value considerably above that given by the relative density , while , on the other hand , the value for carbon dioxide , which for soft rays is nearly normal , falls below that to be expected on a density law as the hardness of the rays increases .
Again , among the more ionisable gases and vapours , although the relative ionisation of methyl iodide , compared with air , decreases as the rays become harder , that of ethyl bromide shows , on the other hand , a very perceptible increase , while the values for ethyl chloride and carbon tetrachloride remain practically constant .
Secondary Radiation .
Variation of Secondary Radiation with the Hardness of the Rays .
The .
amount of the secondary 'Rontgen radiation from different gases and vapours was investigated in the previous paper , * and the results there described have been verified in the course of the present experiments .
Some additional observations have been made , which it may be of interest to record .
It was shown that for most gases and vapours the amount of secondary radiation given off when compared with that from air remained sensibly .constant over the range of primary rays employed .
For stannic chloride and methyl iodide , however , there was a distinct increase , with increasing liardness of the primary rays .
It was thought of some interest to investigate this matter further .
Accordingly a comparison was made between the relative amounts of secondary radiation emitted by air , ethyl bromide , and methyl iodide for .different degrees of hardness of the primary rays .
The results obtained are given in Table V. The first column of this table gives the hardness of the rays used , as measured by the equivalent spark gap of the focus tube ; the second column gives the amount of secondary radiation from ethyl bromide ^compared with that from air , the ratio for the softest rays being reduced to unity to facilitate comparison ; the third column gives , in the same way , the ratios for methyl iodide and air ; and the fourth the ratio for methyl iodide * \#171 ; Phil. Mag. , ' [ 6 ] , vol. 14 , p. 653 , 1907 .
1908.1 Rontgen Rays throvgh Gases and Vapours .
compared with ethyl bromide , calculated in the same way .
In the fifth column the relative ionisation of methyl iodide compared with that of ethyl bromide is given for the sake of comparison , the ratio for the soft rays having been reduced to unity , as in the other columns .
Table Y. Equivalent spark gap .
Secondary radiation .
Relative ionisation .
CH3I/ C2H6Br .
C2H6Br/ Air .
CH3I/ Air .
CHsI/ C2H6Br .
mm. 8 1 00 1 00 1 *00 1 00 14 1 00 1-27 1*27 \#151 ; 18 0 98 1-60 1*63 \#151 ; 22 0*91 2-08 2*28 \#151 ; 26 0*80 2*42 3*03 0-52 All the values given have been corrected for the absorption of the primary rays in the gas , and for the absorption of the secondary rays by the aluminium of the window d. The latter correction was not necessary in the case of methyl iodide and air , which give out rays of approximately the same penetrating power .
It was , however , necessary in the case of ethyl bromide , where the secondary radiation is considerably softer than that given out by either air or methyl iodide .
A reference to Table Y will show the general nature of the results obtained .
It will be seen that the amount of secondary radiation given off by ethyl bromide compared with air is practically independent of the hardness for soft and moderately hard rays , that is for rays with an equivalent spark gap of between 8 and 18 mm. For very hard rays , however , there is a distinct diminution in the values obtained , the ratio for the hardest rays used being 20 per cent , less than that for softer radiation .
For methyl iodide , * on the other hand , as was noted before , the amount of secondary radiation , compared with that from air , shows a rapid increase , with an increase in the hardness of the rays , the ratio for hard rays being nearly 2^ times that for the softer radiation .
Comparing , now , methyl iodide with ethyl bromide , we see that the relative amount of secondary radiation given out by the former compared with that given out by the latter is trebled as the equivalent spark gap increases from 8 mm. to 26 mm. On the other hand , the ratio of the ionisations in the two gases decreases to about half .
Since the radiation from ethyl bromide is greater than that from methyl iodide , while the relative ionisation is less , the effect of this double change is to bring these two vapours more nearly into Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On Passage of [ Dec. 22 , agreement with each other as the hardness of the rays increases .
They give , however , no evidence of approximating to the lighter gases , such , for example , as air or carbon dioxide .
Absorbability of the Secondary Radiation .
The absorbability of the secondary radiation from gases containing only elements of low atomic weight is similar to that of the primary producing it .
Beatty , * who has made some careful experiments on the secondary radiation from air , concludes that even for air there is evidence of a certain amount of transformation of the very penetrating rays into a slightly softer type of radiation .
The effect is , however , very small , and the general statement made above certainly holds to within a few per cent. The rays from methyl iodide and stannous chloride are also of the same type as those from air .
From ethyl bromide , on the other hand , we get radiation of a much softer character , the coefficient of absorption for tin foil being nearly three times as great for the secondary as for the primary .
It was thought interesting to see if the ratio of the two coefficients had the same value for the absorption of the rays by the gas itself , as for absorption outside the gas , by tin foil .
No direct experiments have as yet been made on this point , but some experiments , which were made on the variation of the amount of secondary radiation emitted , with variation in the pressure , allow at any rate a rough calculation to be made of the coefficient of absorption of the secondary rays in the gas itself .
The experimental curve connecting the amount of secondary radiation from ethyl bromide with the pressure is given in curve I , fig. 7 .
It will be seen that it bends over considerably towards the axis of pressure .
Now it has been shown in the previous paper that where there is no appreciable absorption , the amount of secondary radiation emitted is simply proportional to the pressure .
The departure of the experimental curve from the linear law at higher pressures is due\#151 ; ( i ) to the absorption of the primary rays in the gas ; ( ii ) to the absorption of the secondary rays in the gas .
Now the absorption of the primary rays can be easily measured , as has been described above .
We can therefore correct the experimental curve for the absorption of the primary rays .
The curve so obtained is marked II , in fig. 7 .
This curve still bends over towards the axis of pressures .
Since the actual amount of secondary radiation emitted is represented by the straight line III , tangential to curve II at its origin , while the amount * 'Phil .
Mag. , ' [ 6 ] , vol. 14 , p. 604 , 1907 .
1908 ] Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
123 emerging from the gas after partial absorption is represented by curve II , the ratio of the ordinate of the latter to that of the former for any given pressure gives the ratio I/ Io for that pressure .
Plotting the logarithm of I/ I0 for different pressures against the pressure , we obtain curve IY .
This , as will be seen , is a straight line within the limits of experimental error , and represents the absorption of the secondary rays from the gas by the gas itself .
Taking 34 cm .
as the mean distance in *Pressure Fig. 7 .
the gas traversed by the secondary rays before reaching the window , we obtain the value 0*40 as the coefficient of absorption of the secondary rays from ethyl bromide , in ethyl bromide itself .
The coefficient of absorption of the primary rays in the gas for the rays used ( which were hard ) was found to be 0T6 .
The ratio of the two coefficients is therefore 2*5 .
On measuring the absorption of tin foil , first for the primary beam and then for the 124 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
Passage of [ Dec. 22 , secondary , the ratio of the coefficients of absorption for tin foil was found o be 2'7 .
A repetition of the experiments , with methyl bromide as the radiating gas , gave very similar results .
The calculations are only approximate , but as far as they go they would seem to indicate that a gas or vapour is neither exceptionally transparent , nor exceptionally opaque , to the radiations it emits .
Total Ionisation .
The total ionisation produced by the complete absorption of Bontgen rays of the ordinary type in different gases has not yet been directly measured .
If q is the relative amount of ionisation produced in a given gas , and the coefficient of absorption of the rays for the gas , then it can easily be shown that the relative total ionisation T is given by the equation T = of e~Xxdx* Jo i.e. , T = q/ X. Both q and X are already known .
We can , therefore , calculate the value of T for the different gases employed .
If q/ X is the same for all gases , the total number of ions produced in different gases by rays of given intensity will be the same .
The values obtained for the ratio q/ X for the different gases are given both for soft and hard rays in Table VI .
As it was not possible to measure the Table VL Total ionisation ( calculated ) .
Total ionisation : ( experimental ) .
Soft rays .
Hard rays .
a-rays.# Air __ _ 1 00 CH3C02CH3 1 -oo 1 00 \#151 ; C2H5C1 1-64 1 -o 1 '32 C.C14 1*12 1 -5 1 -32 Ni.(CO)4 1 -76 0*91 " C2H5Br 0*96 1 -08 -\#166 ; CH3Br 0-98 \#151 ; 1 *32 ch3i 1-92 0*88 1 -33 Hg(CH3)2 1*46 * Kleeman , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , yoI .
79 , p. 222 , 1907 .
coefficient of absorption for air , the value of q/ X for methyl acetate has been taken as the standard and reduced to unity .
For the sake of comparison , * J. J. Thomson , ' Conduction through Gases , ' p. 303 , 1906 .
1908 .
] Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
125 some experimental values obtained by Kleeman for the relative ionisation produced in different gases by the total absorption of a-rays are given in the last column of the table .
It will be seen that the ratio q/ X for different gases is not a constant , the variations being considerably greater than can be accounted for by experimental error .
The relative ionisation q is easy to measure with accuracy , and in the case of such gases as methyl iodide , mercury methyl , ethyl bromide , and carbon tetrachloride , where the absorption is high , the coefficient of absorption X can also be measured with a fair degree of accuracy .
The values of X for hard rays are less reliable than those for soft , as not only is the absorption of its rays in the gas much less , but also it is more difficult to keep the rays constant during a series of observations .
Even with hard rays the values for methyl iodide and ethyl bromide are probably not more than a few per cent. out .
It will also be noticed that the relative values of q/ X for the different gases vary with the hardness of the rays , especially in the case of methyl iodide and nickel carbonyl , the properties of which seem very sensitive to fluctuations in the quality of the rays .
Thus for soft rays methyl iodide gives a value almost exactly twice as large as ethyl bromide , while for hard rays its value is only about four-fifths that of the latter gas .
The values obtained for the hard rays are more nearly constant than those for the softer radiations .
Carbon tetrachloride appears out of place , but the absorption of the hard rays in this vapour is small , and too much importance should not be attached to this result .
It may be mentioned that the measurements of q and X for any given gas were made simultaneously , in order to ensure their being strictly comparable .
As both q and X vary with the hardness of the rays , this precaution is of considerable importance .
Energy spent per Ion .
If the whole of the energy absorbed by a gas were spent in ionising the gas , then the work done in making one ion in the gas would be inversely proportional to the total number of ions made\#151 ; that is to say , it would be inversely proportional to the total ionisation .
Some of the energy absorbed , * however , is given out again as secondary radiation .
In the case of ethyl bromide , for example , as much as one-third of the energy absorbed may be given out as secondary rays .
Since the relative ionisation has been corrected for any ionisation due to the secondary rays , we must regard this energy as adding nothing to the total ionisation in the gas .
The amount of secondary radiation from the different gases and vapours is known ; it is therefore quite easy to make correction for the energy lost in 126 Mr. J. A. Crowther .
On Passage of [ Dec. 22 , this way .
The values , thus corrected , for the energy spent per ion in the -different vapours are given in Table VII , methyl acetate being again taken as the standard in the absence of any reliable data for air .
Table VII .
Energy spent per ion .
Soft rays .
Hard rays .
ch3co2ch3 1 -oo 100 C.vH5C1 0-61 1 -o CC14 0*89 0*7 Ni(CO)4 0*57 1 1 C2H5Br 0-86 0-7 CH , I 0*52 1*0 Hg(CH3)2 0 69 \#151 ; If there is no further loss of energy in addition to secondary radiation , these figures give the relative amount of energy required to produce an ion in the different vapours .
It will be seen that the results obtained , though all of the same order , are somewhat different for different gases .
Ethyl chloride , carbon tetrachloride , and ethyl bromide , give figures distinctly smaller than those for methyl acetate .
The values for nickel carbonyl and methyl iodide vary Tapidly with the hardness of the rays .
Unless some of the energy absorbed is dissipated in other ways than ionisation and secondary radiation , it would seem that in these gases soft rays produce an ion with the expenditure of -only about half the energy required in the case of hard rays .
Summary and Conclusion .
In the present work a series of experiments has been made , under comparable conditions , on the behaviour of different gases and vapours with respect to the passage of Kontgen rays through them .
The results obtained may be briefly summarised as follows :\#151 ; ( i ) The amount of ionisation produced by the direct action of the primary Rontgen rays on a gas is simply proportional to the pressure of the gas .
Ho evidence was obtained of the emission of any appreciable amount of soft secondary radiation by the gas .
the ionisation , being apparently due to the direct action of the primary rays .
( ii ) The relative ionisation in the different gases compared with air as the standard varies considerably with the hardness of the rays .
Hydrogen and ethyl bromide show an increase as the hardness of the rays increases .
1908 .
] Rontgen Rays through Gases and Vapours .
Other gases remain constant or give a diminution .
There is no indication of any approximation to a " density law " as the hardness of the rays is-increased .
( iii ) The relative ionisation in a gas follows approximately an additive-law .
It does depend somewhat , however , on the state of combination , especially for soft rays .
( iv ) The absorption varies with the pressure according to an exponential law .
( v ) The amount of secondary radiation emitted by different gases relative to air is , generally , approximately independent of the hardness of the primary rays .
For very hard rays ethyl bromide shows a slight decrease .
On the other hand , the values for methyl iodide increase fairly rapidly as the hardness of the rays is increased .
( vi ) The coefficient of absorption of the secondary rays emitted by a gas , in the gas itself , is not abnormal .
( vii ) The total ionisation in different gases is not a constant , and the relative values obtained differ with the hardness of the rays .
( viii ) The amount of energy required to produce an ion in different gases is different , and also varies with the hardness of the rays .
No relationship has been found between the relative ionisation and the secondary radiation , or between either , and any other known property of the gases and vapours , and the explanation of the relatively large amounts of secondary radiation emitted by ethyl bromide and its class compared with air , and of the large relative ionisations in methyl iodide , ethyl bromide , etc. , still remains to be sought .
It appears that on the whole less energy is required to produce an ion in the more ionisable gases , but the values obtained do not differ very largely ; and are totally inadequate to explain the very large amounts of ionisation in these gases and vapours .
Both the ionisation and the secondary Bontgen radiation follow , at any rate approximately , an additive law .
It appears , therefore , that these properties are properties of the atoms themselves , and that an explanation must be sought in their atomic structure .
In conclusion , I wish to express my warmest thanks to Sir J. J. Thomson , , for his helpful advice and stimulating interest during the course of the present experiments .
VOL. lxxxii.\#151 ; A. K

