]\gt ; [ 25 ] II .
Observa ton the Anatomy Development of Apteryx .
T. JEFFERY PARKER , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , Professor of Biology in the University of Otago , Dunedin , New [ PLATES 3-19 .
] Received March 20 , \mdash ; Read April 17 , 1890 .
CONTENTS .
Page .
I. Introductory . . . . . . . . .
26 II .
General description of the stages examined 27 III .
Remarks on the external characters of the adult 35 IV .
The law of growth .
Skeleton 1 .
The skull\mdash ; .
At the time of hatching .
Development .
Subsequenb to hatching .
2 .
The vertebral column\mdash ; .
At the bime of hatching .
Development .
Subsequent to hatching .
3 .
The sternum\mdash ; .
In the adult .
Development 4 .
The shoulder girdle\mdash ; .
In the aduIt Development . . . .
5 .
The fore-limb\mdash ; .
In the adult . . . . . .
Development 6 .
The pelvic girdle\mdash ; .
In the adult .
Development 7 .
The hind-limb\mdash ; .
In the adult . . . . . .
Development VI .
The muscles of the wing . . .
38 . . .
43 . . .
43 .
72 . . . . . . . . . . .
84 .
86 . . . . . .
89 .
100 . . . .
103 . .
28.4 .
VII .
The brain .
In the adult .
Development . . . . . .
The eye . . . . . . . .
Page .
Note on the presence of uncinates in Dinornis 74 on the centrale tarsi and hallux of Dinornis 100 Summary . . . . .
110 List of works referred to 117 Description of the ] ates 120 INTRODUCTORY .
THE chief materials for the present investigation consist of a number of embryos of the three common species of Apteryx which have come into my possession during the last three or four years .
For some time I only succeeded in obtaimng two or three specimens of advanced stages , and it was only when I was fortunate enough to secure the services of Mr. RICHARD HENRY , of Lake Te as collector , that my material became copious enough to be worth working up .
Even now my } ervations are in many respects very imperfect owing to the lack of a sufficient number of specimens , many of the most important stages being represented only by a single embryo .
Since communicating a preliminary note ( 28 ) on the subject to the Royal Society I have found it necessary to extend my investigations , so as to include certain points in the structure of the adult , especially the pterylosis and the characters of the win the sternum , ] -girdle , and skeleton of the fore-limb , the muscles of the wing , and the brain .
I beg to return my sincere thanks to the Council of the Roya ] Society for the grant from which the expenses of the investigation were defrayed ; to Madame MULLER , for a half ripe of ; oweni ; to Sir BULLER , for two advanced embryos of A. ; to Professor HITTTON , for a wing of the rare A. haastii ; to Sir JAMES HECTOR , for two skeletons , and for the opportunity of examining the collections in the Colomal Museum , Wellington ; to Mr. H. O. FORBES , for similar facilities enjoyed at the Canterbury Museum , Christchurch , and for a skeleton of A. oweni , in a very interesting stage of development ; to Mr. T. W. KIRK , for valuable help during my work at the Wellington Museum ; to Mr. T. F. CHEESEMAN , for two living specimens of A. bufleri ; to Professor MAX FURBRINGER , for a copy of his magnificent work on the anatomy and classification of Birds ; to my colleague , Dr. J. H. SCOTT , for valuable help in connection with the literature of the subject ; and to my pupil , J. M. BEATTIE , for working out the percentages in Table , p. 41 .
* The figures in brackets refer to the bibliographical list at the end of this paper ( p. 117 ) .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
It is only right to state that my obligations to my collector , .
HENRY , are out of all proportion to the sums paid to him for specimens .
It has been of great advantage to me in many .
of enquiry to have the opportunity of corresponding with so excellent a field-naturalist .
Perhaps I may also be allowed to mention that I have enjoyed the privilege of frequent correspondence with my Father on the subject-matter of my work .
My chief hope in connection with the present paper is that it may be deemed worthy to serve as a supplement to the long series of researches on the anatomy of birds to wluch so many years of his life have been devoted .
II.\mdash ; GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE STAGES EXAIsIINED .
The embryos hitherto obtained naturally group themselves into ten ( A to K ) .
An eleventh stage ( L ) is by a bird a few weeks old , a twelfth ( M ) by the skeleton of an adolescent specimen , and a thirteenth ( N ) and fourteenth ( O ) by odd bones of young birds .
The adult may be considered as constituting a fifteenth stage .
The following table gives a list of the specimens examined:\mdash ; Astage In addition to these I have examined several wings taken from stuffed specimens or skins , and two skeletons the species of which are uncertain .
One , in the Wellington Museum , was prepared by the late Dr. F. J. KNOX , who named it * This species is better known as A. mantelbi , but Mr. SHARPE has unfortunatsly , although no doubt correctly , found it necessary to change its name .
Both these specimens had to be stuffed , so that only certain parts were available for examination .
A. .
It appears to be a sub-adult A. bulleri .
The other I have provisionally referred to A. haastii for reasons given hereafter ( p. 39 ) .
The chief gaps are between stages and and between stages and H. With these exceptions , the series is fairly complete .
All the were preserved in alcohol .
As they had to be removed from the egg by the collector , the employment of special fixing reagents was inadmissible .
They were for the most part well preserved , but not sufficiently ] for the purposes of exact histological study .
For sectioning they were stained in toto with boraxcarmine , and imbedded in paraffin , serial sections being cut with the Thoma-Jung microtome .
MEYER'S albumen and glycerine fixative was used .
In most cases the sections were cut to a thickness of about to mm. The embryos were drawn as a whole before , the smaller ones ( stages ) both as opaque objects and being rendered transparent by turpentine .
All microscopic drawings were made by the aid of ABBE'S camera lucida .
( Plate 3 , fig. 1 ) .
The single embryo belonging to this stage corresponds in most respects to a chick of the fourth day .
* The body is so bent upon itself that the posterior cephalic and thoracic regions are approximately parallel to one another , and the end of the curved tail is almost in contact with the top of the head .
The cerebral flexure is well marked , the angle between the fore and hind brain being acute .
( Cf .
fig. 17 , Plate 4 .
) The total length of the embryo , measured along the curve of the back from the nostril to the end of the tail , is about 20 mm. In its naturally curved condition it is about 6 mm. across .
The lateral curvature of the body is very much less than in the corresponding stage of the Chick .
In the latter , at about the fourth day , a sagittal section of the whole embryo cuts the notochord , mesoblastic somites , myelon , \amp ; c. , in very various planes .
In the present instance nearly the whole of the notochord , except its caudal portion , was displayed in a single section .
The number of mesoblastic somites was difficult to count in the entire embryo , as it was not examined fresh , but by examining in turpentine by transmitted light it could be made out with tolerable certainty to be about forty-four\mdash ; certainly not fewer than forty-three , nor more than forty-five .
That is to say , the total number of segments is already acquired , since the number of vertebrae in the adult skeleton is about forty-five .
The limbs are in a far less advanced condition than in FOSTER and BALFOUR'S figure of the fourth day Chick ( 10 , fig. 67 ) .
Each ( fig. 1 ) has the form of a flattened , have unfortunately no good series of figures of the external form of chick-embryos which could be taken as a standard of comparison .
The embryos I have myself obtained differ considerably in point of development from the corresponding ages as described by FOSTER and BALFOUR .
AND LOPMENT OF APTERYX .
almost semicircular bud , the hind being already slightly larger than the fore limb ( F.L. ) .
The position of the limbs at this early stage is apparently somewhat unusual .
The fore-limb springs from the Wolffian ridge over against the seventeenth to the nineteenth mesoblastic somites ( see fig. 1 , where the sixteenth somite marked mes .
some .
16 ) , the hin limb over against the twenty-eighth to the thirty-sixth .
In the Chick , according to FOSTER and BALFOUR'S figure , the fore-limb , at a corresponding or slightly later stage , is opposite the tenth to the thirteenth somites , the hind-limb opposite the twenty-third to the twenty-sixth , the total number of somites being forty , or only four fewer than in the present stage of Apteryx .
In the adult both of Apteryx and Gatlus the fore-limb lies in the transverse plane of about the sixteenth or seventeenth vertebra , the hind-limb in that of about the thirtieth or thirty-second .
Thus while in Gallus the limbs undergo , subsequently to the fourth day , a backward shifting equal to the length of about six to eight mesoblastic somites , in an Apteryx of the corresponding age the adult position is already attained .
The ontogenetic of the limbs of birds is very generally taken as evidence of a corresponding phylogenetic shifting .
If this conclusion is correct\mdash ; and there seems no reason to doubt it\mdash ; the fact just described would seem to show that the interval separating Apteryx from its hypothetical short-necked ancestor is a wider one than has intervened in the case of .
It must be remembererl , however , that , according to FURBRINGER ( 11 , p. 977 ) , a forward displacement of the limbs occasionally occurs instead of the usual backward displacement , especially in the case of species with degenerating wings .
The first two visceral folds mandibular , hyoid , are considerably larger than the third , fourth , and fifth ( figs. 19-21 , Br .
, 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
The superior maxillary process was not visible externally , nor can any trace of it be seen in sections ; this respect the resemblance is closer to a Chick of the third than to one of the fourth day ( compare 10 , figs. 56 and 67 ) .
In the brain the mesencephal ( figs. 1 and 17 , Mesen .
) is proportionally smaller than in the Chick in correspondence with the relatively smaller eyes .
The auditory sac ( Au .
) has the usual characters , but the nasal sac agrees in character and position with that of a Chick of the third day ; there is no trace of the -nasal process and no overlapping of the nostrils by the lateral projection of the eyes .
The diameter of the allantois ( All .
) was about five-sixths of the length of the head , i.e. , of much the same relative size as in a Chick of the fourth day .
The embryo was cut into a complete series of sagittal sections .
( Plate 3 , fig. 2 ) .
This embryo is apparently only a few hours older than that just described , being considerably less advanced than a Chick of the fifth day .
Measured across the curve its length is about mm. ; if straightened out it would measure , from nostril to end of tail , about 24 mm. The fronto-nasal process has barely begun to form , and there is still no trace of the superior maxillary process .
The distinction between the mandibular and hyoid folds is ] clear than in the previous stage , owing to the partial obliteration of the furrow between them .
In the sections the post-hyoidean clefts are seen to meet in the middle ventral line ( fig. 28 ) , and the hyoidean folds are slightly produced back- wards , forming an operculum-like flap ( figs. 2 , 28 , and 29 , Operc .
) over the neck , beneath which there is a transverse crescentic slit figs. , placing the pharynx in free communication with the exterior .
I have no recollection of seeing this condition of things described in any vertebrate ) , and am disposed to attribute it to an injury , although it is rather difficult to account for the destruction of the delicate median isthmus between the ventral ends of the hyoidean and first branchial folds , placed as it is in a very inaccessible situation , without any corresponding injury to the folds themselves .
The third visceral cleft ( Cl. 3 ) is still open , but considerably reduced in size ; the fourth ( Cl. 4 ) is closed .
The allantois ( All .
) is now , as shown by the dotted outline , considerably larger than the head .
In other respects there is very little advance .
Sections of this embryo were made parallel to the axis of the head , with the result of getting longitudinal sections of the anterior cephalic ( figs. 22-24 ) , cervical ( fig. 33 ) and middle caudal regions , and transverse sections of the posterior cephalic ( figs. 26-31 ) , thoracico-lumbar ( figs. 31 and 32 ) , and posterior caudal ( fig. 32 ) regions .
( Plate 3 , figs. 3 and 4 ) .
In this embryo , which corresponds in general features with a Chick of about the sixth day , there is a considerable alteration in form , accompanied by a slight increase in size .
The total length from nostril to end of tail , measured along the curve of the back , is now about 30 mm. , the greatest length across the curve about 8 mm. As compared with the previous stages , there is a slight diminution of the cranial flexure , the general axis of the head being now as nearly as possible at right angles to that of the neck .
The fronto-nasal process figs. has appeared as a prominent distinctly bilobed elevation , and the nasal sac has , in consequence , become more deeply set , so as to have the appearance , externally , of a longitudinal slit , and not of an open pit .
The superior maxillary process ( figs. 3 , 4 , and 37 ) is also well developed , but runs much more nearly parallel to the mandibular arch ( Mn .
) than in the Chick .
The first visceral ( mandibulo-hyoid ) cleft figs. has the usual relation ; second , or post , -hyoidean clefts figs. have a great vertical extent , and nearly meet with one another in the middle ventral line AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
( fig. 40 ) .
The backward extension of the hyoidean fold visible in the previous stages has increased so as to form a true operculum ( figs. 3 , 4 , 41 , and 42 , Operc which completely covers the third cleft , so that it is invisiblo in an external view .
The fourth cleft lies immediate]y behind the operculum , and is very probably exposed by the of the latter : as in the previous stage it no longer communicates with the exterior .
retention of so obviously amphibian a character as the opercular fold in the embryo of Apteryx appears to be a character of very considerable morphological interest .
I have not met with any record of its occurrence in other Sauropsida .
The limbs are no longer mere semicircular buds , but have become elongated and flattened dorso-ventrally , and their distal ends are slightly dilated .
The disparity in size between the two pairs of limbs is now very obvious , the rudiment of the wing ( F.L. ) being hardly more than a third the size of that of the leg ( H.L. ) .
The specimen was sectioned in the same direction as the last ( cf. Plate 5 ) .
( Plate 3 , fig. 5 ) .
This embryo was unfortunately much damaged by the collector during removal from the egg .
The head was severed from the body , the surface was considerably abraded , and , worst of all , both fore-limbs were destroyed .
Measured along the curve of the back it is about 43 mm. from the end of the beak to the end of the tail .
The advance beyond the preceding stage is very marked , avian characters being definitely assumed .
The general features correspond fairly with those of an eighth day Chick .
The head is rounded in side view , compressed laterally ( Plate 9 , figs. 88-92 ) , and produced into a short beak , slightly curved at the tip .
Owing to the damaged state of the specimen , I could not be perfectly sure of the position of the nostril , but from a careful examination of the entire embryo , and afterwards of the transyerse sections into which it cut , I feel tolerably certain that it was situated as in fig. 5 , that is , about half way between the base and the tip of the beak .
The visceral clefts have disappeared , with the exception of the first ( Cl. 1 ) , which now forms the tympano-eustachian passage , and appears externally in its usual position below and behind the eye .
The neck is long and the tail very distinct .
The fore-limb , as already mentioned , was destroyed on both sides .
I have indicated ts position and probable form by a dotted outline ( F.L. ) .
The hind-limb retains its embryonic position at right to the long axis of the trunk , and with its yentral or flexor surface directed mesiad .
There is no flexure at either knee or ankle , but the pes is marked out by being broader and flatter than the rest of the limb , and produced dorsally into low ridges , indicating the position of the three principal digits .
The hallux ( 1 ) is an onspicuous projection on the preaxial border of the foot .
The specimen was cut into a complete series of transverse sections , the head , neck , and trunk being cut separately .
Of the hind limbs horizontal sections were taken , i.e. , sections parallel to the plane of the digits .
Stage ( Plate 3 , figs. 6 and 7 ) .
very interesting stage is , like the last , represented by a single specimen a good deal during removal from the egg .
The head was severed , and the whole surface abraded .
The total length is nearly the same as in the last stage .
The trunk has become straighter , but the tail is still large and curved .
The head is rounded , and beak proportionally longer than in the previous stage .
The tip of the beak was damaged , so that the position of the nostrils was not apparent in the entire embryo , but sections showed their position to be as indicated in the figure , namely , at the extremity of the beak .
Thus the unique position of the external nares in Apteryx is established at a comparatively early stage of development .
In the eye the rudiments of the sclerotic plates are obvious , and the opening of the lacrymal canal is visible as a small pit immediately in front of the eye .
The -limb is bent at the elbow at a right angle .
The manus is a tridactyle paw , being produced distally into three blunt projections , of which the middle one ( 2 ) is the largest , while of the other two the third ( 3 ) , or postaxial , is slightly longer than the first ( 1 ) , or preaxial , digit .
The hind-limb has also undergone a right-angled flexure at the and at the same time the femur rotated so that the combined crus and pes\mdash ; which are still in the same straight line\mdash ; are directed backwards , having their preaxial border mesial , and their originally dorsal ( outer ) surface looking downwards and forwards .
The muscles of the thigh have undergone a notable development , so that this region of the leg has already its permanent laterally compressed .
form .
The pes is still short , but the second , third , and fourth digits ( figs. 7 , 2 , 3 , 4 ) are well marked out ; they are still connected by membrane , so that the foot at this stage is distinctly webbed .
The hallux ( 1 ) has the form of a short blunt projection on the preaxial border of the tarsal region .
In this embryo the brain was removed , and the base of the skull drawn from above .
The head was then imbedded , and sagittal sections of the left side cut until the mesial plane was reached , when it was turned , and the right half cut into transverse sections .
The pectoral and pelvic girdles of one side were exposed , sketched in and removed , and a complete series of sagittal sections was then made of the trunk .
The fore-limbs were then cut horizontally , i.e. , parallel to the plane of the digits , one of the hind-limbs horizontally , the other sagittally , i.e. , at right angles to the plane of the digits .
Stage ( Plate 3 , figs. 8 and 9 ) .
This sbage is of great interest as being the first in which the generic characters are assumed ; the long beak , with its slightly curved tip , and sub-terminal nostrils AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
( Na .
) , mark the embryo at once as referable to no other genus than Apteryx .
the fact that , as shown by sections , ossification is just about to commence in the larger bones of the ] imbs and the membrane bones of the skull , the stage may be taken to correspond with a Chick of the eighth or ninth day .
The entire length from tip of beak to end of tail is now about 60 mm. The head has attained its maximum relative size .
The form of the head , apart from the beak , and the form and curvature of the trunk , are much the same as in the previous stage , but the tail is relatively smaller , and so are the eyes .
The fore-limb is now an undoubted wing ; the second digit ( fig. 9 , 2 ) has grown out of all proportion to the first ( 1 ) and third ( 3 ) , which form mere blunt projections on the pre-and post-axial borders respectively .
In the hind-limb the thigh is , as in the adult , hardly distinguishable from the out- side , the knee only just appearing beyond general contour of the body .
The mesotarsal flexure has appeared , and the toes are directed ventrad .
The tarsal region has elongated considerably ; the digits are quite free from one another , and have an almost regularly cylindrical form .
There is still no trace of claws .
The hallux ( 1 ) has undergone a considerable shifting distad , its adult position being nearly attained .
The first rudiments of the feather-papillae are visible .
There is a well-marked dorsal tract ( Dors .
Pt. ) extending from the occipital region to the rump ; it occupies about the dorsal half of the circumference of both neck and trunk , and divides at the root of the tail-papilla , which is itself quite bare .
The dorsal pteryla is continuous on each side with a weak and inconspicuous femoral tract ( Fem .
Pt. ) , and there is a small but well-marked humeral tract ( Hum. Pt. ) .
A dissection of this embryo was made from the left side , and the skull with the brain , the pectoral and pelvic girdles , and the ribs and sternum , were sketched in he head was then disarticulated , brain removed , and the base of the skull drawn from above and from below ; a model of the brain-case was also made in clay .
The head was then stained and embedded , and , as in the previous stage , sagittal sections of the left half and transverse sections of the right half were cut .
The shoulder and hip girdles and the sternum and ribs of one side were removed and mounted separately , and the trunk then cut into sagittal sections .
The wings were sectioned horizontally , while of the legs one was cut into horizontal , the other into sagittal sections .
Stage ( Plate 3 , figs. 10 and 11 ) .
One of the two embryos belonging to this sta ( A. oweni ) was found to be cruslJed quite flat from side to side , apparently by the weight of the superincumbent yolk , the egg having been opened and placed entire in alcohol .
The following description applies , therefore , to the specimen of A. From the fact that the shafts of the principal long bones of the leg and the membrane bones of the skull have begun to ossify , this stage may be taken to correspond with a Chick of about the eleventh or twelfth day .
The total llgth from the tip of the beak to the uropygial papilla is about 90 mm. The form of the head has undergone but little alteration , but the relative length of the beak has increased considerably .
Owing to the development of the eyelids the eyes appear much smaller than in the previous stage , the sclerotic plates being completely hidden , as well as the opening of the lacrymal duct .
The nictitating membrane has appeared .
The tail is reduced to a small rounded uropygium ( figs. 10 and 11 , immediately cephalad of which is a rounded area having its margin depressed below the general level of the region , and devoid of feather .
This area , which is subsequently modified into the lips of the , has near its anterior margin a deep depression , from which springs a prominent papilla , bearing the cloacal aperture ( Clo .
) , towards the posterior ( caudal ) aspect of its summit .
The wing is relatively slightly smaller than in the previous stage , and has assumed quite the adult form , there being no trace externally of either the first or the third digit .
The.legs have undergone a great increase in size ; the digits have lengthened very considerably , and each is now tipped by the rudiment of the horny at the base of which is an annular fold of skin .
The feather papillae are now very prominent , especially on the rump .
A distinct tract has appeared on the dorsal surface.of the head , and another on the ventral aspect of the neck extending a short distance on to the pectoral region , and becoming confluent with the humeral tracts ( Hum. Pt A complete series of transverse sections was made of the head , neck , and trunk of the specimen of A. , as well as horizontal sections of the wings and feet .
In A. oweni the skeleton was prepared by dissection .
Stages ( Plate 3 , figs. 12 and 13 ) .
From Stage onwards the embryo has practically acquired all the adult characters , except that the feathers are hair-like , the barbs being still enclosed in a sheath of the stratum corneum .
Fig. 12 shows an embryo of Stsge I after removal of the feathers .
The dorsal and ventral tracts so distinct in Stage , have met and coalesced on the sides of the neck , but on the trunk the lateral apterium ( Lat. Apt .
) is quite distinct , extending from the region of the wing backwards on to the rump .
rrhere is also a well-marked ventral space ( Vent .
Apt .
) , and the whole inner ( ventral ) aspect of the wing is devoid of feathers , forming an inferior alar apterium ( fig. 13 , Inf. At .
Apt The remiges are no larger than the contour , and as in all other stages the uropygium ( Upg .
) is naked , presenting no feathers round its base which can be identified as rectrices .
As compared with the previous stages the relative diminution in size of the head , AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
the elongation of the beak , and the immense increase in all dimensions of the legs , are particularly noticeable .
My observations on these stages , as well as on many of the previous ones , relate exclusively to the skeleton and the brain- .
Most points were made out by dissection , but verification by serial section was constantly resorted to , the wings of several specimens being examined in this way , as well as the entire head of an example of A. oweni belonging to Stage H. Neither in these nor in any of the previous stages was there any trace of the little rounded caruncle , or " " egg-breaker , \ldquo ; on the end of the beak , which is so marked a feature in most Carinate Birds .
My Father tells me that he knows of no other bird in which it is absent ; I have myself observed it in Gulls , Petrels , Ducks , and Penguins , but there is no trace of it in the advanced embryo of a Dottrel bicinctus p ) in my possession .
It is not indicated in Miss LINDSAY'S figures of Ostrich embryos ( 19 , Plate 43 ) , and , according to R.0LLEST0N and JACKSON ( 48 , p. 379 ) , it is not always present .
III .
MARKS ON THE EXTERNAL CHARACTERS OF THE ADULT .
It is constantly stated in zoological works that the Ratitae are distinguished by an uninterrupted pterylosis .
NITSCH says ( 23 , p. 118 ) that " " the whole body , with the exception of he constantly naked parts of the head and neck , the naked band on the breast along the crest of the sternum , the tarsi , and , in the African Ostrich , the legs and the sides of the trunk , is covered , after the fashion of Mammals , with a homogeneous feathery coat This statement is practically repeated by FURBRINGER ( 11 , p. 1010 ) and by WIEDERSHEIM ( 52 , p. 31 ) , to mention only two important modern works which dea ] .
with the question .
Pterylae and apteria are , however , shown in Miss LINDSAY'S figures of Ostrich embryos ( 19 , Plate 43 ) , but they are only briefly referred to in the explanation of the plate .
In the adult Apteryx , as in advanced embryos , the pterylosis is by no means uninterrupted .
In a fresh specimen of A. butteri I find the lateral apterium to be fully 2 cm .
wide , and to extend about 5 cm .
cephalad and 9 cm .
caudad from the axilla , its total length being therefore about 14 cm .
In the same specimen , the ventral or inferior space was of about equal width ( 2 cm .
) , and extended about 11 or 12 cm .
caudad from between the origin of the wings .
Moreover , the inner ( ventral ) surface of the wing is always nearly devoid of feathers ( Plate 3 , fig. 15 ) , and so constitutes a well-marked lower wing-space .
According to NITSCH , the function of the lateral apteria ' seems to be , not only the facilitation of the movements of the wing , but likewise to serve for the reception of the folded wing , in such a nlaIlner that it may be supported upon the feathers of the branch of the ventral tract It reasonable , on this view , to suppose that the PROFESSOR T. J. ON ANATOMY presence of a large lateral space is evidence of the wings having been larger in the ancestors of the Ki wi in the existing genus .
I find , however , that the space in question has a definite function in connection with the attitude assumed by the bird during sleep .
According to POTTS ( 46 ) , the mode of roosting is very peculiar ; they squat opposite each other with their legs bent under them , each with its head tu jked under the scanty apology for a wing Careful observation of living specimens of both A. and A. bulleri shows that this statement is not quite correct .
When a Kiwi is settling down to sleep it squats as described , resting upon the whole length of the foot , the rump being in contact with the ground , and the trunk at an angle of about The head , after a little preliminary fidgeting , is then turned round to the , and the beak gradually worked under the side feathers , apparently until the lateral apterium is found by its sensitive tip : it is then somewhat quickly thrust backwards beneath the feathers\mdash ; the action resembling that of sheathing a sword\mdash ; until it is completely hidden .
On carefuJly turning the feathers aside without disturbing the bird , it was found that the beak placed along the lateral apterium , with its base immediately of the axiIla .
As the wing is so placed in the position of rest that the upper arm is directed from the axilla upwards and backwards , the base of the beak lay in a kind of trough , bounded mesiad by the trunk and laterad by the wing , the naked elbow being very obvious as a small oloured projection just external to it .
In this position the distal portion of the wing is thrust somewbat outwards , and its feathers\mdash ; remiges and upper coverts \mdash ; appear externally , taking a direction downwards and backwards over the ordinary contour feathers of the trunk .
It is rather significant that this is precisely the attitude of a Goldfinch or Canaly when asleep , the beak in these cases being over ( dorsad ) the axilla ' .
and therefore , of course , under the spreading side feathers .
Perhaps the ' facts may be explained by supposing that during the evolution of the genus Apteryx , the great lateral spaces were retained as resting places for the increasing beak , although no longer useful for the reception of the diminishing wings .
Another fact which appears to me to tell in favour of the derivation of Apteryx from a progenitor with well developed wings , is the fact that the wing is provided with a true alar membrane .
Both OWEN'S figure ( 24 , Plate 1 , fig. , which shows the wing of A. from the outer side with most of the feathers removed , and BULLER'S Plate , which shows that of A. bulleri from the inner side with the feathers in , are apparently taken from somewhat shrivelled specimens .
The wing of a perfectly fresh specimen of A. bulleri is shown in figs. 14 and 15 ( Plate 3 ) : it has , precisely as in typical Carinatae , a distinct fold of skin , or pre-patagium , passing between the upper arm and fore arm , as well as an equally well marked fold , the post-patagium , between the postaxial border of the upper arm and the trunk .
The characters of the alar claw do not appear to have been described with any accuracy , and are of some interest as seeming to furnish a very fair specific character .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
As far as my experience goes , the alar claw of A. oweni is always soft and weak , gently curved , about 4 mm. long , and of a light horu colour Plate .
That of A. haastii is quite similar , but sometimes even smaller : the left claw of the supposed female specimen in the Canterbury Museum being only 3 ) .
long ; in the supposed male , Professor HUTTON informs me it is about 9 mm. long , much curved and white .
In A. it is about 6-8 mm. long , gently curved , and of a light horn colour , blotched with black ( fig. 241 ) .
Lastly , in A. bulleri , it is strongly curved , from 6 to 18 mm. long , and quite black ( figs. 245 and 246 ) .
It seems to be constantly larger in the male in the female , and often differs on the two sides of the body .
As to the form and arrangement of the wing feathers , YARRELL ( 55 ) in the earliest accurate description of Apter.yx , states that these do not differ from the feathers of the body generally , and apparently OWEN ( 24 , p. 3 ) was the first to poinc out the presence of remiges ; he says " " nine quasi-quill-plumes , not exceeding in length the ordinary body feathers , but with somewhat thicker shafts , are arranged in a linear series along the ulnar margin of the antebrachium FLOWER'S observations referred to by WRAY ( 54 ) are not mentioned in the abstract of his lecture on the Wings of Birds ( 9 ) , but in answer to my enquiries , Professor FLOWER was good enough to inform me that he had found eight cubitals and one metacarpo-digital in the specimen of A. oweni mounted for the British Museum , but that several feathers of both sets appeared to be wanting as the bird was moulting .
According to my own observations , made chiefly upon two fresh pecimens of A. bulleri , and confirmed upon examples of the other three species , there are nine or ten cubitals ( figs. 14 and 15 Cubit of which the five distal ( Nos. 1-5 ) are larger than the rest ; two or three metacarpals ( Mtcp .
) , and a single mid-digital ( Mid .
) , the latter being usually smaller than the rest .
The formula for the remiges is therefore On the outer side of the wing there is a row of well-marked tectrices majores ( fig. 14 , Tect.maj .
) , which correspond accurately with the remiges in the distal of the series , but towards the proximal elld of the row of cubitals become more or less irregularly arranged .
The remaining upper coverts are not definitely disposed in rows , so that there is no distinction between tectrices mediae , tectrices minores , and marginals .
The few feabh rs on the under or inner side of the wing are all directed proximad or towards the axilla ( fig. 15 ) , not distad like the upper coverts .
In microscopic structure the feathers agree with those of as described by RBR1NGER ( 11 , p. 1482 ) .
The barbules ( Plate 3 , fig. 16 ) are beset with regularly arranged pointed barbicels slightly curved outwards at their tips , and , as far as my observations go , larger in the unhatched embryo than in the adult .
On the whole it appears to me that the structure of the wing of Apteryx lends support to the view that the Ratitae are the descendants of Birds which possessed the power of flight , a view which ] , I believe , OWEN was the first to advance .
In spite of Miss LINDSAY'S ] usions from her study of the development of the sternum ( 19 ) , aJld w from his researches on the wing , I am still disposed to think that the balance of evidence is in favour of the hypothesis to which I was led by a study of the flightless Rallidae ( 26 ) , that the Ratitae spring from a ate stock , which has recently received strong support from the researches of FURBRINGER ( 11 ) and of GADOW ( 13 ) .
It has always seemed to me that , on the hypothesis of its development from an ordinary Reptilian fore-limb , , that of a Dinosaur , the wing is one of the most striking examples of the uselessness of incipient structures .
If , on the other hand , we suppose it to have been evolved from a which gradually diminished pari with the development of its ales into feat , hers , the difficulty of its first origin is overcome and the presence of the alar membranes is explained .
\mdash ; THE LAW OF GROWTH .
( Plates 6 and 7 A very interesting mode of comparison of aberrant\mdash ; either highly specialised or highly generalised\mdash ; forms with their more typical congeners , is furnished by observation of the relative rate of growth of various regions of the body from an early stage of development to adult life .
The difference between the law of growth of Man and of the other Primates is an example which will occur to everyone .
I think it will be useful to furnish towards an enquiry into the general ] of growth in Birds by giving a series of measurements of the various stages of Apteryx , as is done in rfable A. In the adult it will be seen that measurements of both sexes are given in the case of A. australis and A. oweni : of A. bulleri I have been able to .
measure only a single skeleton .
This is , however , of comparatively little importance since A. and A. bulleri agree with one another so closely in size and proportions .
Moreover , as already stated ( p. 28 ) the so-called A. , of which measurements are given , is probably referable to this species .
Measurements are also given of a skeleton which I have named doubtfully A. haastii , a species which was founded by POTTS ( 45 ) upon two skins from the west coast of the South and now in the Canterbury Museum .
By the kindness of Professor HUTTON , at that time acting Director of the Museum , I was enabled to examine the wing of one\mdash ; the supposed female\mdash ; of the type specimens , and found it to differ from all examples of A. australis ( which it resembles in size ) and to agree with A. oweni in the possession of a distinct radiale in the carpus ( see p. 93 , and Plate 17 , fig. 250 ) , and in the characters of the alar claw ( p. 37 ) .
The doubtful skeleton referred to was obtained near Cape Providence , on the west coast of the South Island , in 1881 , by a collector named WHEELER , who left it in the landing shed of the Puysegur Point Lighthouse before starting for another expedition AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
PROFESSOR T. J. PARKER ON THE ANATOMY from which he never returned .
The skeleton was found by the keeper , Mr. J. W. GHAM , and given to my taxidermist , Mr. E. JENNINGS , to whom I am indebted for the opportunity of examining it .
It presents the following peculiarities : \mdash ; It is as large as an average female A. , but the beak is little longer than in the male of that species and proportionally no longer than that of A. oweni ( see Table B ) .
The left manus has a distinct radiale ( Plate 17 , fig. 251 ) , and the alar claw , which was present on both sides , is small and ] ight coloured , as in A. haastii and A. oweni .
The sternum also ( Plate 16 , fig. 210 ) is unusually long .
These characters by no means prove the skeleton in question to be anything more than a somewhat aberrant example of A. , but they are enough to warrant separate measurements being given .
In addition to the Table ( A ) of actual measurements , another ( B ) is given in which comparison is facilitated by taking the length of the vertebral column as and expressing the remaining measurements as percentages .
It is only by using some such method as this that the changes of proportion of various parts of the body during the of development can be clearly shown .
In comparing Notornis with other Rails ( 26 ) I took as my standard the length of the trunk as measured from the anterior end of the coracoid to the posterior end of the pelvis ; FURBRINGER ( 11 ) employs for the same purpose the length of a thoracic vertebra .
Bnt both these methods would preclude the comparison of the earlier stages , and on the whole I am Iposed to think that the standard here adopted answers the purpose satisfactorily .
Graphic representations of the same facts are given in Plates 6 and 7 .
In fig. 45 the various parts of the body are represented in a conventional manner , the vertebral column being made in each caso 100 mm. long , and the head , limbs , etc. , in proportion .
In figs. 46-49 the curves of growth of certain important regions are shown separately .
The following are the most important results obtained by this method of enquiry .
The brain-case remains of about the same relative size up to , when it begins to grow less rapidly than the vertebral column .
The age at which its ultimate or minimum proportional size is attained is not known , but in a young bird several weeks old ( Stage L ) it was not yet reached .
The beak , which is undeveloped in the first three stages , is of about the same size in and ; in it has undergone a notable increase ; in it is of the same length as the brain.case , and its maximum proportional length is attained in H. It is worthy remark that , as shown in Table and fig. 46 , the proportional length of the beak is nearly the same in the two sexes , although its absolute length is so much greater in the female ; in A. oweni , indeed , the beak of the male was found to be relatively longer than that of the female , but this was very probably an individual variation .
The sternum ( fig. 47 ) attains its maximum in Stage , thereafter undergoing but variation in relative si ze .
It is important to note , however , that up to Stage the postero-lateral processes are not formed ( Plate 16 , figs. 216-218 ) , so that its AND DEVELOPMENT OF UDCCCXOI , \mdash ; B. UDCCCXOI , \mdash ; B. potential is very much greater than its actual length , and the comparison with later stages is hardly fair .
The shoulder-girdle hardly changes in proportional size from the time it was first observed ( Stage E ) .
The coracoid is of much the same size in all species , but the scapula appears to be longest in A. oueni .
The pelvis attains its maximum in Stage , remaining about the same throughout life , save for what are probably individual variations , in A. oweni , but increasing slightly after hatching ( Stage K ) in A. .
In all the skeletons examined the relative size of the pelvic girdle was slightly greater in the male than in the female .
The fore-limb ( fig. 48 ) , taken as a whole , increases pretty regularly up to Stage and then remains stationary , subsequent val.iations being obviously individual .
The variations in the sexes and in the different species , in the adult , would probably disappear if the average of a sufficiently large series of specimens was taken .
As to the separate divisions of the wing the only point worthy mention is that in Stage the manus is longer than the antebrachium , while in the two are of the same length , and in the adult proportions are attained .
The curve of growth of the hind-limb is very different ( fig. 49 ) .
The entire limb increases rapidly and with but slight fluctuations , due no doubt to the observations being made on single specimens , from per cent. of the vertebral column in Stage A to per cent. in Stage K. In the adult it varies from 88 per cent. to 98 per cent. ( A. australis , 8 ) , thus undergoing a relative diminution in size between the time of hatching and the attainment of fully adult proportions .
It is quite possible that this rather remarkable result is to be put down to individual variation , but I hardly think so , as the three specimens belonging to Stage and the single specimen of Stage ( not shown in the diagram ) all have the hind-limb more than 100 per cent. of the vertebral column , while in the adult it was below 95 per cent. in six out of seven skeletons measured .
The four divisions of the limb\mdash ; femur , crus , tarso-metatarsus , and middle ( third ) digit\mdash ; increase in much the same manner as the whole limb , the only point worthy of special mention being the fact that the middle digit is at first ( Stages and E ) not more than half the length of the tarso-metatarsus , while from Stage onwards it gradually increases until the two divisions of the foot are of equal length in H. This proportion is retained far as , but in the adult the middle digit is , in seven skeletons measured , slightly shorter than the tarso-metatarsus .
So that in the relative -proportions of the two diyisions of the foot , as in that of the entire hind- limb , the maximum differentiation appears to be attained about the time of hatohing , a retrogression towards more embryonic proportions taking place subsequently .
As to sexual and specific differences find that the legs of the male are relatively longer than those the female .
In tIue skeletons examine ed the legs of the are AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
proportionately longer in A. australis than in A. oweni , while in the female the reverse is the case .
This , again , is very probably a matter of individual variation .
A brief statement of the law of growth in Apteryx is given in the Summary ( p. 111 ) .
V.\mdash ; THE SKELETON .
The detailed accounts of the skeleton of Apteryx by , BLANCHARD ( 6 ) , and MIVART ( 21 ) , render any full account of the general adult osteology quite superfluous .
The observers referred to have , however , only had the opportunity of describing adult or sub-adult specimens .
Their material has , moreover , consisted of a small number of examples , so that they have been unable to take account of the individual variations , some of which , as will be seen hereafter , are of considerable interest .
I propose , therefore , to begin my account of each portion of the skeleton by describing somewhat fully either the condition of the part in question in the ripe embryo , in which the various ossifications are distinct , or the adult structure in cases where , owing to paucity of material , the descriptions of former observers are imperfect .
I have found it convenient to add two new terms to the general terminology of the skeleton .
An independent cartilaginous element or centre of chondrification is called a chondrite , an independent bony element or centre of ossification an osteite , both words being formed on the model of the well-known entomological term " " ] erite.\ldquo ; 1 .
THE SKULL . .
At the Time of tching ( Stage ) .
( Plates 8 and 9 .
) OWEN'S descriptions of the skull ( 24 ) are taken from a fully adult specimen of A. australis , and from one in which the and left half of the sutures were persistent .
The skull of the same species figured by BLANCHARD ( 6 ) had the sagittal , coronal , and middle third of the lambdoidal sutures open , and many of the membrane bones were distinct ; but the bones of the cranii were united , and the turbinals do not appear to be shown .
In the skull of Kiwi chicks , either shortly before or shortly after hatching , all the ossifications have appeared , and the only ankyloses are those between the right and left premaxillae , dentaries , and splenials , and between the basi- and para-sphenoids .
After maceration the membrane bones are readily detached .
* Both in OWEN'S original monograph and in the reprint the coronal suture is , obviously by a printer 's elror , called sagittal .
Figures of the entire skull and of the separate membrane bones given in , figures of the hondrocranium in Plate 9 .
Sections through important regions in a somewhat earlier stage ( H ) are given in Plates 12-14 , and will be occasionally referred to .
The By the removal of all the membrane bones , except the already ankylosed parasphenoid ( basitemporal plus rostrum ) the chondrocranium ( Plate 9 , figs. 75-77 ) is obtained as a basin-shaped mass of mingled bone and cartiIage , produced in front into the elon olfactory capsules ( fig. 75 , Ec .
Eth .
) and prenasal rostrum Pr . .
The short basis cranii ( B.Oc .
, B.Sph .
) is continued behind into the occipital arch ( S. Oc and on each side into the auditory capsules ( Pr .
Ot and alisphenoids ( Al .
Sph .
) , while in front it bears the deep , transversely elongated , pituitary fossa ( Pty. ) .
All the cartilage bones of the fully developed cranium have appeared , and , with the exception of the isolated ethmo-presphenoid bone ( Eth .
Pr.Sph .
) , are separated from one another by narrow droses .
The basioccipital is roughly pentagonal in , and bears posteriorly the transversely ovoid occipital condyle ( Oc .
Its anterior border is separated by a narrow synchondrosis from the basisphenoid ( B.Sph .
) , while by its antero-lateral borders it is similarly related to the prootics ( Pr .
Ot and by its postero.lateral borders with the exoccipitals ( Ex. Oc Its dorsal surface is nearly flat , its ventral surface bears , immediately cephalad of the condyle , a tranversely oval depression .
The exoccipital is already partly ankylosed to the periotic .
Externally it forms the greater part of the ventro-lateral region of the posterior surface of the cranium ( fig. 53 ) ; but internaIIy ( fig. 56 ) it.appears only as a narrow strip of bone bounding the foramen magnum .
It is produced laterad into a large paroccipital process covered with cartilage , which forms the posterior wall of the tympanic cavity ( fig. 77 ) .
On its inner or cranial surface ( fig. 56 ) it is separated from the opisthotic by a deep groove , in which is situated\mdash ; bounded on all sides by the exoccipital\mdash ; the foramen for the ninth and tenth nerves ( Nv .
IX .
, The twelfth nerve makes its exit through a number of small foramina figs. in the postero-inferior region of the bone Part of the horizontal semicircular canal lies in the exoccipital , and the vertex of the anterior canal is situated at its junction with the prootic and supraoccipital .
The ital ( S. Oc .
) is a squarish bone articulating by its dorsal border with the parietals ( Pa. ) , separated laterally by synchondroses from the exoccipitak and periotic ( fig. 56 ) , and ventrally forming the upper border of the occipital foramen .
For the greater part of its extent it is extremely thin , but its ventral border is thickened and hollowed out by air cavities continuous with those of the periotic AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
( figs. 75 and 77 , pn.c .
) , and its lateral border bears a deep pit for the vertex of the anterior semicircular canal .
The prootic is aloeady fused in great part with the exoccipital , the two bones being inseparable after prolonged ation , although the bands of cartilage separating them are well shown on the inner surface of the skull ( fig. 56 ) .
It is a large irregular bone , appearing but little on the outer surface , where it forms the mesial wall of the tympanic cavity ( fig. 52 ) , but internally forming a great part of the postero-ventral region of the brain-case ( figs. 56 and 75 ) .
Its dorsal surface is flattened , and produced mesiad into an obliquely horizontal ridge , which extends from the junction of the prootic , exoccipital , and supraoccipital forwards and downwards to the trigeminal foramen ( Nv .
) .
Under the eaves of this ridge on the mesial surface of the prootic are two recesses , the hindmost of which is the deep floccular fossa , while the foremost is a shallow groove containing anteriorly a foramen for the exit of the seventh nerve and posteriorly two small apertures for the eighth ( Nv .
VIII Ventrad and slightly caudad of the auditory foramina are three small apertures , which transmit lesser branches of the eighth nerve .
The flattened dorsal surface of the prootic presents low elevations , marking the positions of the anterior and horizontal semicircular canals ; these are best seen when the chondrocranium is examined in turpentine by transmitted light .
Its posterior face is closely applied to the exoccipital , with which it is partly ankylosed , and between the two bones the dorsal edge of the presents a large trough-like pneumatic cavity ( figs. 75 and 77 , pn.c .
) , divided transversely by a bridge of cartilage , and closed in the entire skull by the juxta- position of the parietal and squamosal figs. Plate .
The lateral surface of the prootic furnishes the inner wall of the tympanic cavity ; it is honey-combed with air cells , and presents dorsally a circular facet covered with cartilage figs. for the inner articular process of the head of the quadrate .
Near the boundary of the prootic with the exoccipital is the fenestral recess , containing the fenestra ovalis and the fenestra rotunda ( rot and a short distance cephalad of this recess is the aperture ( figs. 56 , 77 , and 78 , Nv .
VII.1 ) , by which the portio dura enters the tympanic cavity .
The opisthotic ( fig. 56 , and Plate 14 , fig. 171 , Op. Ot .
) is clearly seen on the inner surface of the auditory capsule , as a narrow bone wedged in between the prootic and the exoccipital , and separated from each by a very narrow synchondrosis .
In its deeper portion it is ankylosed to these bones .
There is no trace of epiotic or sphenotic ossifications , both of which occur in the Chick ( 44 , pp. 242 and 249 ) at the time of hatching or a little later .
The basisphenoid ( B.Sph .
) which is already completely united with the sphenoid basitemporal , rostrum , has an irregularly hexagonal form as seen from above ( fig. 75 ) , and is wedge-shaped in sagittal section ( fig. 56 ) , being quite thin where it joins the basioccipital , and increasing in thickness towards the pituitary region .
B.y its posterior border it is connected by synchondrosis with the basioccipital , by its postero-lateral border with the prootics , by its antero-lateral borders with the alisphenoids , and by its anterior border with the presphenoid .
Immediately caudad of the vertical posterior edge of the presphenoid the dorsal surface of the basisphenoid is deeply excavated to form the transversely ova ] pituitary fossa ( Pty. Ventrally , as already stated , the basisphenoid is completely fused with the elements of the parasphenoid .
Of these , the rostrum ( Roast .
) is a slender bone crescentic in cross section ( Plate 13 , figs. 155-160 ) and closely applied to the ventral edge of the mesethmoid .
The sitemporal projects beyond the basisphenoid both caudad and laterad , forming paired processes which overlap the basioccipital { figs. 51 and 76 ) .
Between these wing-like processes the posterior edge of the bone is emarginate , and in one specimen presents a small median notch indicating the position of the closed posterior basicranial fontanelle ( cf. Plate 10 , figs. 108 and 109 , and Plate 14 , figs. 173 and 174 , p.bcr .
) .
Laterally , the combined basi- and para-sphenoid is produced into the paired outstanding basipterygoid processes ( B.ptg .
) , which are tipped with cartilage , and immediately caudad of these are the pretemporal wings ( figs. 51 , 76 , and 78 , Pr .
which , closely applied to the prootics , help to enclose the anterior tympanic recesses .
On the ventral surface of the basitemporal are paired oblique grooves ( figs. 51 , traceable backwards into the tympanic cavities ; they lodge the Eustachian tubes , and in later stages become arched over by bone .
In the postero-lateral region of the bone is the well-marked carotid foramen ( Int. This leads into a canal which passes forwards , upwards , and inwards , to open with its fellow into the rior region of the pituitary fossa immediately beneath the dorsum sellae ( fig. 56 , .
On the dorsal surface of the basisphenoid , near the middle of its antero-lateral border , is the minute foramen for the sixth nerve ; it leads into a canal passes forwards and ] ightly upwards and outwards and enters the orbit immediately ventrad of the orbito-nasal foramen ( figs. 52 and 77 , Immediately dorsad of the basipterygoid process is a small round foramen which leads into the interior of the basisphenoid : it probably transmits a nutrient artery .
Further particulars of the internal structure of the basisphenoid will be given in the description of the skull in stages and I ( pp. 66 and 70 ) .
My material did not allow of my making thin sections of the present stage , and , indeed , such a course was unnecessary as the differences between stages , and are comparatively slight .
The alisphenoid ( Al .
Sph .
) is an irregular concavo-convex bone united by cartilage with the anterior border of the prootic and with the antero-lateral border of the basi- sphenoid .
Between it and the prootic is a large rounded foramen for the AND DIBVELOPMENT OF APTERyX .
exit of the second and third divisions of the trigeminal ; on the inner surface of the skull this foramen lies immediately in front of the anterior termination of the prootic ridge , externally it is just above the anterior tympanic recess .
From the anterior border of this trigemina ] foramen a groove is continued forwards on the inner face of the synchondrosis between the alisphenoid and basisphenoid , and ends in a foramen ( Nv .
which enters the orbit and transmits the division of the fifth nerve ; it may , therefore , be called the orbito-nasal foramen .
It is erroneously stated by OWEN ( 24 , p. 28 ) that the first division of the fifth passes out along with the optic , oculomotor , and abducent nerves through the optic foramen , and that 1 , second and third divisions make their exit respectively through the " " foramen rotundum " " ( -nasal foramen ) and " " foramen ovale\ldquo ; ( trigeminal foramen ) .
The actual condition of things I have verified both by dissections , and by a complete series of microscopic sections of stage H. On the outer surface of the cartilaginous junction between the prootic and alisphenoid , and extending on to the latter bone itself , is a rounded , slightly concave carti]aginous facet , in contact with but clearly distinguishable from a similar facet to be described hereafter ( p. 54 ) on the squamosal .
To double surface is articulated the external process of the head of the quadrate The anterior sphenoidal region of the skull is wholly ginous , there being neither pre-nor orbito-sphenoidal ossifications .
The presphenoid is sented by a vertical plate of cartilage which passes in ensibly into the mesethmoid ( M.Eth .
, fig. 56 ) in front , and behind is continuous by its lower fourth with the basisphenoid .
Its ventral border is thickened and underlaid by the rostrum ( fig. 159 , Pr .
Sph .
, Roast its dorsal border is produced laterad into small paired wings of ( fig. 75 , Pr .
Sph .
) , each of which continued into a narrow band of the same tissue ( Orb .
Sph .
) passing outwards and slightly backwards to unite with a small bony process ou the anterior border of the alisphenoid .
The study of earlier stages shows that these outgrowths of the presphenoid are the greatly reduced orbitosphenoid plates ( cf. Plate 9 , fig. s5 ; Plate 10 , figs. 96 , 97 , 104 , 105 ; and Plate 11 , figs. 123 and 125 , Orb .
Sph The optic foramina are situated in the pituitary fossa , one on each side of the presphenoid , their mesial borders being about 3 mm. apart .
Each is bounded above by the orbitosphenoid bar , below by the basisphenoid , in front by the presphenoid and antorbital plate ( vide infra ) , and behind by the alisphenoid .
The third and fourth nerves make their exit through the connective tissue filling up the posterodorsal region of the optic foramen , the fourth lying dorsad and sligbtly laterad of the oculomotor .
The mesethmoid ( M.Eth .
) , as already stated , is continuous behind with the presphenoid .
In its posterior region it is a plate of considerable vertical extent , and its dorsal border , which is concave from before backwards ( fig. 56 ) , separates the olfactory fossae from one another , and has the relations of a crista galli ( figs. 75 and 77 ) .
At its anterior end the crista galli is produced into a pointed process ( figs. 56 and 77 , tg .
, which , as my Father has pointed out , is to be looked upon as a vestige of the laginous tegmen cranii of the lower Vertebrata : it may be conveniently called the tegminal process .
At the apex of this process the mesethmoid reaches the outer surface of the skull ( fig. 56 ) , and , with the adjacent portions of the ectoethmoids , forms a lozenge-shaped area ( fig. 50 , Eth .
Pr.Sph .
) between the posterior ends of the nasals .
of the tegminal process the mesethmoid gradually diminishes in vertical extent , becoming , in the anterior portion of the beak , the pod-like prenasal cartilage .
It is for the most part more or less pyriform in transverse its ventral border being greatly thickened ( Plate 13 , figs. 152-158 ) .
None of my specimens of this stage , or , indeed , of any other except ( see p. 126 ) , show any trace of the fenestra in the mesethmoid figured by BLANCHARD ( 6 ) .
No clear distinction can be drawn between aliethmoid , aliseptal , and alinasal cartilages ( cf. 31 ) any more than between presphenoid , mesethmoid , septum nasi , and prenasal .
The dorsal border of the mesethmoid , from the tegminal process forwards to within about 2 cm .
of the end of the beak , sends off horizontal plates on each side ( figs. 75-77 and Plate 12 , figs. 152-156 , Ec .
Eth .
) : these pass at first outwards , then downwards , and finally , in a portion of their extent , inwards , thus forming the roof , the outer wall , and in part the floor of the olfactory chambers .
They may be called by the general name of ectoethmoidal plates .
The precise relations of the ectoethmoids vary in different regions , and it is convenient to consider them as consisting of five portions .
In the fifth or posterior portion , besides passing outwards and downwards , they sweep directly backwards , thus forming an almost complete shell-like covering for the principal portion of the olfactory organ , i.e. , that part which extends backwards into the orbits ( see especially fig. 77 , Ec .
Eth .
5 ) .
To this region of the ectoethmoidal plate the name aliethmoid might be restricted .
Each aliethmoid is a thin plate of cartilage with convex lateral and caudal ( posterior ) surfaces ; its lateral surface is dilated , so as to form the well-marked convexity against which , in the entire skull , the lacrymal is applied figs. ; its dorsal border , which is concave from before backwards , forms the outer or lateral boundary of the olfactory fossa ( figs. 75 and 157 ) ; its posterior border is closely applied to the presphenoid and becomes fused with it dorsad ; its ventral border is in close contact with the presphenoid and mesethmoid immediately dorsad of the rostrum ; its flattened ventral surface ( fig. 76 ) ends in front at its junction with the fourth portion of the ectoethmoid Ec . .
4 , and presents a deep emargination which separates a slender forwardly directed process figs. from the main part of the cartilage .
It is the posterior face .
this cartilage which forms the anterior wall of the orbit , and is often called the antorbital plate .
In its fourth portion the ectoethmoid furnishes only roof and side AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
walls to the olfactory chamber , not being turned inwards to form a floor for the cavity : as a consequence of this , the turbinals are here visible in a ventral view of the entire chondrocranium ( fi gs .
76 , 155 , 156 ) .
Immediately cephalad of itsjunction with the fifth portion , the lateral region of the fourth is sunk inwards so far as to form an obliquely longitudinal depression figs. of considera , ble depth , and lying , in the entire skull , at about the level of the descending process of the nasal ( cf. figs. 56 and 77 ) .
The invagination thus produced projects into the olfactory chamber as the anterior accessory turbinal ( vide infra , p. 50 ) , and lodges the anterodorsal branch of the antrum of HIGHMORE .
In its third portion the ectoethmoid is again turned inwards ventrally in the form of a plate with a straight mesial border abutting against the mesethmoid , and with oblique anterior and posterior edges ( figs. 76 , 153 and 154 , Ec .
Eth .
3 ) .
At the anterior end of this plate , near its ventral border , is a small arterial foramen .
The second portion of the ectoethmoid , like the fourth , furnishes only a roof and outer wall to the olfactory chamber ( figs. 76 and 152 ) .
Lastly , in its first or anterior portion it is unconnected with the mesethmoid ( prenasal ) , and has the form of an obliquely placed band of cartilage which is continued to the of the beak , passing dorsad of the nostril , curving outwards as it does so , and then turning gently downwards , hookwise , immediately cephalad of the anterior termination of the olfactory sac ( figs. 7.5-77 and 149-152 ) .
To this plate the name alinasal might .
be applied , but owing to the unique position of the nostrils in Apteryx the relation of this as of other parts of the olfactory capsule is strikingly different from what we are familiar with in other birds .
There is a singJe ethmoidal ossification figs. in the form of a bone composed of horizontal and vertical portions , and therefore -shaped in transverse section .
The horizontal portion ( fig. 75 ) is shield-shaped , and appears on the surface of the skull between the posterior ends of the nasals ( fig. 50 ) : it is marked dorsally by a pair of sigmoid grooves ( fig. 75 ) laterad of which it is covered , in the entire skull , by the nasals .
The vertical portion ossifies the whole dorsal region of the mesethmoid ( fig. 56 ) and ends below in a rounded border .
The bone in question is obviously partly mes- and partly ecto-ethmoidal : moreover , subsequently extends caudad so as to ossify the presphenoid , so that it may be con- veniently called the -presphenoid .
One of the most striking characteristics of the skull of Apteryx is the extreme complexity of the turbinals .
When the mesethmoid is removed ( fig. 57 ) there are seen in the olfactory chamber proper .
well-marked obliquely vertical folds , while a fifth is continued into the narrow or respiratory portion of the nasal cavity .
The three hindmost of these folds are perfectly distinct from one another , and I propose to call them respectively the anterior ( A. middle posterior turbinals .
The fourth and fifth folds are intimately connected with the anterior turbinal : I call the uppermost of the two , which forms part of the olfactory region , has antcrior accessory ( A. A. and that which extends forwards , and has no olfactory function , the ventral accessory turbinal ( V.A. In describing these complex structures it will be necessary to refer , not only to dissections , but to transverse and horizontal sections ( Plates 7 and 11 ) .
The posterior turbinal figs. has the form of a scroll attached by the whole of one edge to the aliethmoid .
It is rolled upon itself caudad ( fig. 8.3 ) forming about one turn .
Like the other turbinals its line of attachment is oblique , passing from above forwards , as well as downwards .
The middle turbinal ( figs. 57 , 75 , 83 , 84 , 157 , and 158 M. is also attached along the whole length of one nearly vertical edge : from its attachment it passes at first mesiad ( fig. 83 ) , then turns caudad , then laterad , then mesiad again , and passes cephalad as a broad plate somewhat indented in the middle by a vertical furrow , which gives it the appearance when viewed from its inner face ( fig. 57 ) of a double fold .
The broad vertical plate thus formed is attached to the aliethmoid along the anterior part of its ventral border , but is free dorsad , its apparent connection with the dorsal wall of the olfactory chamber in fig. 57 being due to the fact that the mucous membrane is not removed : anteriorly it is rolled upon itself caudad ( figs. 83 and 84 ) , forming a scroll of one turn , which is attached to the aliethmoid above and below , but is free in the middle .
The anterior turbinal figs. arises as a somewhat oblique plate from the aliethmoid .
Soon after its origin it turns caudad ( fig. 83 ) , then cephalad , then caudad again , and finally curves forwards , forming a single oblique scrol ] with an in-turned anterior border .
The anterior accessory turbinal ( figs. 57 , 77 , 83 , 84 , 155 , and 156 , A.A.Trb .
) , arises dorsally as a narrow plate springing from the anterior turbinal near its origin ( fig. 83 ) ; it passes forwards and downwards , and merges into the hollow ingrowth of the ectoethmoid mentioned above ( p. 49 , figs. 84 , 155 , and 156 ) .
It thus happens that the main part of the anterior accessory turbinal is not a plate-like ingrowth , but an actual hollow invagination of the ectoethmoidal In it , as already mentioned , is enclosed the antero-dorsal branch of the antrum of HIGHMORE .
At its anterior and ventral end this pouch gradually narrows , and passes insensibly into a plate of cartilage , which joins the ventral accessory turbinal , gradually fading away on the dorsal surface of the latter .
The ventral accessory turbinal figs. consists of a horizontal plate of cartilage attached along its whole length to the ectoethmoid , and connected caudad with the ventral border of the anterior turbinal .
At its posterior end it is a simple narrow plate , but soon divides into two plates , a dorso-mesial and a ventro-lateral ( fig. 155 ) , which continue forwards , enclosing between them a dihedral angle .
The dorso-fnesial plate is rolled upon itself dorsad , and comes to an end a short distance in front of the anterior end of the anterior accessory turbinal ( fig. 57 ) .
The ventro-lateral plate is rolled upon itself ventrad , and is continued forwards , AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
undergoing a gradual simplification of structure , as far as thejunction of the second and thir .
portions of the ectoethmoid ( fig. 153 ) .
As already mentioned , all the turbinals , with the exception of the ventral accessory , are covered with Schneiderian membrane , and are therefore analogous to the ethmoturbinals of a mammal .
The ventral accessory turbinal is covered with ordinary mucous membrane , and belongs to the merely respiratory portion of the nasal chamber : it may be compared with -turbinals of mammals .
There is also , separated by a considerable interval from the turbinals proper , a fold which may be compared with the naso-turbinal of mammals .
This is a narrow , horizontal , shelf-like plate of cartilage springing from the inner face of the first or anierior portion of the ectoethmoid , and extending from a little in front of its junction with the second portion as far forwards as the nostril .
It may be mentioned in this connection that the lining of the nasal sac from the nostril nearly as far back as the junction of the second and third portion of the ectoethmoid\mdash ; i.e. , the preturbinal portion of the olfactory chamber\mdash ; has the character rather of skin than of mucous membrane , its epithelial layer consisting of a stratum Malpighii covered by a very thick stratum corneum closely resembling , and actually exceeding in , the horny beak ( see Plate 12 , fig. 151 ) .
On each side of the ventral edge of the mesethmoid in the vomerine region , from about the posterior end of the third to the middle of the fifth portion of the ectoethmoid , is a slender rod of cartilage ( figs. 76 , 77 , and 155-1.57 , imbedded in connective tissue , and lying parallel to and either immediately dorsad or slightly laterad of the dorsal edge of the trough-like vomer .
It is about 10 mm. long , and about mm. in diameter , and is most easily made out in sections , when once its position is known , it can be readily prepared in a well-macerated skull by removing the vomer .
It is obviously the vestigial cartilage of JACOBSON'S organ , first described by my Father in , and afterwards in various Passerine Birds ( 36 ) .
The quadrate has practically the same form as in the adult .
The otic process bears a large transversely elongated articular head covered with cartilage , and having its mesial extremity widened antero-posteriorly .
This portion of the head of the quadrate bears a well-defined , nearly circular , slightly convex facet ( pr.ot .
) for articulation with the surface already noticed on the prootic ( p. 73 , fig. 78 , .
The lateral narrow portion of the head of the quadrate ( fig. 79 , sq .
) articulates in front with the surface already noticed on the alisphenoid ( p. 78 , fig. 78 , , and behind with a small cartilage-covered facet on the squamosal ( p. 97 , fig. 78 , $ the revival by GADOW ( 12 ) of the Okenian hypothesis of the homoJogy of the sauropsidan quadrate with the mammalian tympanic is an instructive instance of the way ' the whirligig of time brings in his revenges One had lately been content to think that this question was ally settled in 1869 in favour of the REIcHBRT-HuxLEY view , or some modification of it . .
Thus , in Apteryx , the quadrate can by no means be described as having a single-headed otic process .
The orbital process ( orb .
) is tipped with cartilage .
The shaft of the quadrate bears on its posterior surface a large pneumatic foramen ( pn .
) leading obliquely downwards and forwards into a cavity excavated in interior of the bone .
Ventrally the quadrate is tipped with cartilage , and bears the usual two condyles , one ( cn .
1 ) mesiad and slightly cephalad of the other .
Lying almost immediately cephalad of the external condyle is a deep hemispherical cavity for the articulation of the quadrato-jugal , while dorsad of the internal condyle , and at the base of the orbital process is a somewhat ill-defined surface for articulation with the pterygoid .
articular ( figs. 54-56 and 80 , Art .
) is a concavo-convex bone , largely covered with cartilage both dorsad and latelad .
From its anterior border the lon slender MECKEL'S cartilage is continued forwards and slightly inwards until it reaches the posterior end of the long mandibular symphysis , when it turns directly forwards , and passes parallel to and in close contact with its fellow of the opposite side to within a short distance of the end of the beak ( cf. figs. 151-160 ) .
There is no trace of a basi-mandibular element .
The stapes , or columella auris ( fig. 81 ) , is not described by OWEN .
It consists of the usual oval plate of bone ( Col. ) inserted in the fenestra ovalis , and continued into a short bony rod , which passes outwards and forwards , and bears at its distal end a triradiate cartilage , the extra-columella ( Ex. Col. ) of GADOW ( 11 ) .
The middle of the three rays , or extra-stapedial ( E.St .
) continues the direction of the bony columella , and is fastened distad to the inner surface of the tympanic membrane .
The second , or supra-stapedial ( S.St .
) , is dorsal and posterior in position , and has its extremity thickened and produced into a small retral spur directed ventrad ; it is also attached to the tympanic membrane .
The third ray , or infra-stapedial ( I.St .
) , springs from the ventral region of the extra-columella close to its proximaJ end , and immediately opposite the supra-stapedial : it passes forwards and downwards to the anterior tympanic recess , where it becomes ligamentous .
In Serial sections of Stage it can be traced to a point about mm. dorsad of the internal angle of the articular , beyond which it disappears as a distinct structure .
The tongue-bone , or hyoid ( fig. 82 ) , consists of a median sagittate cartilage ( B.Br .
) called basi-uro-hyal by my Father ( 28 ) , produced backwards into a slender-pointed rod .
With the lateral processes of this cartilage are articulated the posterior cornua , each of which consists of an ossified ceratobranchial ( C.Br .
) with cartilaginous ends , and of an unossified epibranchial ( E.Br .
) pointed distad .
Imbedded in the extremity of the tongue is a -shaped cartilage , having its stem ( B.Hy .
) directed forwards , while its arms ( C.Hy .
) extend backwards and embrace the median cartilage ( B. Br .
) : the point of the latter is connected by ligament with the re-entering angle of the .
This answers to the heart-or arrow-shaped cartilage AN1 ) DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
.53 found in most birds , and considered by my Father as being formed of partially concresced ceratohyals .
I am disposed to take a different view of the composition of the avian " " hyoid I consider the arms of the -shaped cartilage ( C.Hy .
) to be ceratohyals , and its median portion or stem ( B.Hy .
) , the basihyal , formed as it obviously is by con- crescence of the right and left halves of the hyoid arch .
The sagittate cartilage ( B.Br .
) I consider to be the first basibranchial .
According to this view there is no concrescence between the hyoid and first branchial arches in Apteryx ; they remain united only by ligament , so that in preparing the skeleton by maceration the first branchial ( so-called hyoid ) readily separates , leaving the true hyoid imbedded in the end of the tongue , where it is easily overlooked .
Moreover , the hyoid is obviously obsolescent ; as will be shown , it chondrifies late and never ossifies .
The Bones .
The rietal ( fig. 62 ) is an irregularly four-sided concavo-convex bone .
By its straight mesial border it is joined by membrane to its fellow of the opposite side ( fig. 50 ) : its sigmoid anterior border articulates with the frontal , and its irregular lateral border with the squamosal , while its irregular posterior border abuts against the occipital cartilage partly in the supra- and partly in the ex-occipital region ( fig. 53 ) .
At its posiero-lateral angle is a pit ( pn .
) which fits over and closes above the hinder division of the pneumatic c.avity in the prootic figs. .
The frontal ( fig. 63 ) is a very irregular concavo-convex bone , broadest at its posterior end and narrowing cephalad .
By its evenly curved posterior border it articulates with the parietal ; its nearly straight mesial border is separated from that its fellow of the opposite side by membrane ( fig. 50 ) ; iffi arched lateral border , straight as seen from below , articulates with the alisphenoid .
In front it is produced into a narrow nasal process , which articulates with the postero-lateral border of the nasal .
Immediately cephalad of its alisphenoid border the frontal is produced into an orbital process ( orb.pr .
) , which curves downwards and inwards and abuts against the aliethmoid ( fig. 52 ) ; from its antero-ventral angle is sent off an irregular orbitosphenoid process ( o.sph .
) , which passes directly mesiad and overlies the orbitosphenoid bar .
rfhus the frontals nearly meet in the middle line over the presphenoid , reminding one of the arrangement found in some of the Primates .
Immediatel .
cephalad of the orbital process is a large notch , covered in the entire skull by membrane , and converted into a foramen , the superior orbital fontanelle , by the juxtaposition of the aliethmoid .
From the dorsal border of this foramen a pedate descending process ( d.pr .
) is given off , and passing downwards and slightly forwards , abuts against the convex lateral surface of the aliethmoid .
The orbitonasal nerve passes immediately mesiad of this process in its course from the orbit to the nasal cavity .
The squamosal ( fig. 69 ) is a roughly triangular bone articulating by its sinuous dorsal border with the parietal , by its concave anterior border with the alisphenoid and by its thickened ventral border with the prootic and exoccipital .
Its ventral region is hollowed out into a pneumatic cavity ( pn.c .
) , which in the entire skull iits over the anterior division of the hollow in the prootic already described ( p. 45 , figs. 75 and 77 , pn.c .
, and fig. 170 ) , the posterior division , as already stated , being covered by the parietal .
The antero-ventral angle of the squamosal is produced into a triangular zygomatic process ( zyg .
) which is directed forwards and downwards immea'iately laterad of the otic process of the quadrate ( fig. .
Just mesiad of the base of this process the squamosal bears on its antero-ventral angle an articular facet covered with cartilage for the posterior surface of the external division of the head of the quadrate .
Caudad of this facet , the ventral edge of the squamosal is perforated by a considerable aperture ( indicated by a bristle in fig. 69 ) by which the air-cells just mentioned communicate with the tympanic cavity ( cf. fig. 78 , and figs. 169 and 170 ) .
With regard to the cartilaginous facet it is an interesting question whether the presence of a distinct chondrite developed in connection with a parostosis is an indication that the latter is phylogenetically a cartilage bone , like the palatine and pterygoid of Sauropsida and Mammalia , or whether the chondrite in such cases is to be considered as a neomorph .
In any case the cartilage now under consideration is comparable and may possibly be homologous with the meniscus of mammals , while it certainly corresponds with the cartilaginous facet on the squamosal of lizards ( 33 ) .
The nasal ( fig. 66 ) is a long narrow bone crescentic in cross section ( Plate 13 , fig. 1.55 ) , pointed in front , and irregularly truncated behind .
By its posterior border it articulates with the frontal , and by the greater part of its mesial border with the nasal process of the premaxilla : caudad of that process the nasals diverge so as to allow the central part of the ethmo-presphenoid to appear ( fig. 50 ) .
From the posterior end of the lateral border of the nasal springs a slender descending process ( d.pr .
) which takes a direction downwards and slightly forwiixds , abutting against the ectoethmoid and articulating caudad with the lacrymal ( figs. 50 and 52 ) .
The ( fig. 68 ) is a small irregular bone consisting of a shell-like central portion applied to the surface of the aliethmoid ( fig. 52 ) , and of an ascending portion which articulates with the descending process of bhe nasal .
It is perforated obliquely by the lacrymal foramen lac . .
The xilloe ( fig. 59 ) are already ankylosed together , forming a long triradiate bone .
The common portion or body of the bone is small and mded , forms the tip , of the and is honey.combed with small close-set pits in which are end-organs abundantly supplied by branches of the dorsal ramus of the orbitonasal nerve .
The nasal process na .
is also single , except at its posterior end , where there is a longitudinal cleft .
palatine processes ( pal.pr .
) are quite distinct , each being AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
attached to the body of the bone by a narrow neck , widening as it passes backwards , and finally dividing into a short mesial , and a long lateral process , both of which articulate with the maxilla .
The external nostril lies at the junction of the nasal and palatine processes with the body .
The ( fig. 58).is a long flat bone pointed in front where it is underlaid by the palatine process of the premaxilla : it ally widens as it passes backwards and divides into two processes , an internal or palatine ( pal .
) , and an external or jugal process ( ju. .
Mesiad of the anterior end of the palatine process is a groove bounded dorsad by an extension of the inner margin of the bone , and serving for the reception of the palatine ( cf. figs. 50 and 5 ] ) .
The outer border of the maxilla forms part of the boundary of the upper jaw , by its inner or mesial border it articulates with its fellow for a short distance in front , afterwards separating from it so as to leave a narrow lanceolate interval partly filled up by the vomer .
The atine process of the maxilla underlaps the palatine bone towards its outer border ; thejugal process articulates dorso-laterad with the jugal .
The jugal ( fig. 70 ) is a slender rod-like bone , articulating by its anterior half with the jugal process of the maxilla , and behind articulating by its dorsal surface with the quadrato-jugal .
The quadrato-jugat ( fig. 71 ) is a slender bone , pointed in front where it underlies the jugal , and thickened posteriorly where it articulates with the pit already noticed on the quadrate ( p. 52 ) by a knobbed extremity ( qu .
) covered with cartilage ( see also fig. 165 , .
This is a second instance in the skull of Apteryx of a parosteal bone provided with a cartilaginous articular end. .
The vomer ( fig. 60 ) is -shaped , consisting of a median anterior limb and slightly ging posterior limbs .
The anterior limb which projects between the maxillae is trough-like , and pointed in front , the posterior limbs have their ventral surfaces slightly concave from side to side , and their posterior ends forked : each articulates at its hinder end dorsad with the pterygoid and ventrad with the palatine ( see also fi gs .
155-157 ) .
The palatine ( fig. 61 ) is of very irregular form , its pointed and jagged anterior end fits into the groove on the inner border of the maxilla .
, the palatine process of which is applied to the whole length of its ventro-lateral surface .
Its posterior end is expanded and obliquely truncated : it underlies the hinder end of the vomer , and articulates laterad with the pterygoid .
The ( fig. 67 ) terminates caudad in a saddle-shaped surface covered with cartilage qu .
) for articulation with the quadrate .
The posterior end of the bone has the form of a stoutish rod , somewhat flattened from above downwards , and bears on its mesial surface a slightly elevated , longitudinally oval facet ( b.ptg .
) , covered with cartilage , for articulation with the basipterygoid process .
The anterior two .
thirds of the bone is flattened from downwards , and produced dorsad into an obliquely longitudinal ridge , and divided anteriorly into mesial and lateral processes .
The mesial process articulates with the lateral border of the vomer , and with the posterior expanded portion of the palatine , the lateral process articulates with the dorso-lateral border of the palatine , and of the palatine process of the maxilla .
The dentary ( fig. 72 ) is already ankylosed with its fellow of the opposite side , forming a symphysis about cm .
long .
The symphysial portion of the united es is narrow , deeply grooved longitudinally on its dorsal surface , and pitted below ( fig. 55 ) like the corresponding part of the premaxilla .
Each ramus consists of a horizontal dorsal plate , and an oblique ventral plate , the two joining laterad in an acute dihedral angle : posteriorly these two pIates are separate , and form slightly divergent dorsal and ventral processes .
The splenials ( fig. 64 ) are also ankylosed , forming a symphysis nearly 1 cm .
long .
Each has a nearly flat mesial and a strongly-grooved lateral surface .
Thus , when the dentary and splenial are placed in position , they enclose between them a ]ongitu- dinal canal for MECKEL'S cartilage ( fig. 153 ) .
The angular is a narrow splint-like bone , with its broad , flattened posterior end applied to the mesio-ventral region of the articular ( figs. 55 and 56 ) .
The main part of the bone extends forwards between the splenial and the ventral process of the dentary , forming the posterior portion of the ventral edge of the mandibular ramus .
The ( fig. 73 ) has its broad , irregular , somewhat thickened posterior end applied to the ventro-lateral region of the articular ( figs. 52 and 55 ) .
The rest of the bone is a narrow slightly-twisted which extends forwards between the splenial and the dorsal process of the dentary .
The coronary ( fig. 74 ) is a slender , rod-like bone , somewhat broadened and truncated at its posterior end and pointed in front .
It lies on the inner face of the mandibular ramus ( figs. 54 and 56 ) near its articular end , between and nearly parallel with the angular and supra-angular .
The relations of both cartilage and membrane bones are well shown in the series of sections of Stage ( Plates 12-14 ) . .
Development of the Skull .
( Plate 4 , figs. 17-21 ) .
The palachordal region or investing mass is represented by a plate of dense blas tema on each side of the notochord , and extending a short distance cephalad of its anterior end as the " " middle trabecula\ldquo ; of RATHKE ( fig. 17 , This name my Father ( 29 ) proposes to drop , as the structure in question has nothing to do with the trabeculae cranii .
As , however , a distinct chondrite subsequently appears in it , which gives rise to part of the dorsum sellae , and as it is apparently the first part of the skull to appear , being at the present stage decidedly better marked than the parachordals , I think it will be convenient for descriptive purposes to speak of it as the prochordal plate .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
The end of the notochord ( Nch .
) is simply upturned , not bent into a hook-like form as in Selachians , or twisted as in elone ( 35 ) .
The next stage shows this very clearly , since the notochord never appears twice in the same transverse section ( figs. 24 and 25 ) .
There is a concentration of the mesoblastic tissue in the visceral folds ( figs. 19-21 ) , but the visceral arches can hardly be said to be formed as yet Stage ( Plate 4 , figs. 23-30 ) .
The prochordal plate has become a very distinct unpaired structure ( fig. 23 , Pr .
reachin from the end of the notochord , dorsad between the metencephal ( Mt .
coo .
) and diencephal ( Di .
coo The third nerve ( Nv .
IlI .
) passes through it in its course from .
the base of the mid-brain .
A short distance caudad of thejunction of the chordal with the parachordal plates the latter are seen to be distinctly paired and 26 , .
Ch the thickenings of mesoblast which form them not meeting eithel above or below the notochord .
Except at their extreme anterior limit ( fig. 24 ) parachordals remain thus distinct through their whole extent figs. , and are uniformly less well-marked than the prochordal .
In the auditory region the thickened mesoblast of the parachordaJs is seen to be extending laterad , so as to invest the auditory sacs ( fig. 28 ) .
The visceral arches are visible as of dense tema , but , with a single specimen , their precise relations could not be very satisfactorily made out .
Stage .
The prochordal plate is still better defined than in the previous stages , and is produced at its free end into paired processes , which lie immediately laterad of the oculomotor nerve ( Nv .
III A short distance in front of ( aboye ) the end of the notochord , the prochordal forms a well-marked transverse plate ( fig. 36 , Pr .
narrow owards the middle line , broadened at either end , and perforated by the third nerve .
I have seen no references to the bifurcation of the ' middle trabecu ] \ldquo ; just referred to .
The two processes have exactly the same relation to the main unpaired portion of the prochordal plate as the trabeculae to the anterior unpaired portion of the parachordals ( vide infra ) ; and bearing in mind GoTTE'S theory that the trabeculae represent a pair of neuroids ( neural arches ) , and ALBRECHT'S nof , ion ( 1 ) that the dorsum sellae is a ' Wirbelcentrum-complex , \ldquo ; it is tempting to compare these processes also with neuroids .
But it yet remains to be seen whether they exist in the lower , and , if so , whether they are independent elements like the trabecuJae , or , as in the present case , mere processes of the prochordal plate .
The parachordals are well defined anteriorly , and have united of the notochord ( fig. 37 ) .
but for the greater part of their extent they are still separate ( figs. PROFESSOR T. J. PARKER ON THE ANATOMY 38-42 ) , and have not yet passed into the condition of prochondral tissue .
The lateral extensions from the parachordals forming the auditory capsules are seen in this stage ( figs. 39 and 40 , Au.c .
) .
The trabeculae have apparently just made their appearance .
In sections hich include the anterior end of the notochord and the pituitary evagination ( Pty. ) of the pharynx , they have the form of short paired rods , springing from the united parachordals , and passing immediately laterad of the internal carotids ( Int. car so as partly to embrace the pituitary body .
The visceral arches are more clearly marked than in the preceding stage , the maudibular hyoid first branchial being very obvious .
Stage ( Plate 9 , figs. 85-95 ) .
Owing to the unfortunately damaged condition of the single belonging to this stage , observations are far from complete .
The drawings of sections ( figs. 88-95 ) are accurate , only obvious distortions having been corrected , but the figures of the entire skull ( figs. 85 and 86 ) must be looked upon as restorations from very imperfect data .
The cerebral flexure is still nearly a right angle ; the sections cut at right angles to the long axis of the beak , become horizontal in the parachordal region ( cf. figs. 8893 with figs. 94 and 95 ) .
The advance beyond the preceding stage is very marked ; all the parts of the chondrocranium are formed , and consist , for the most part , of hyaline cartilage .
The parachordals figs. have to a considerable extent concresced below the notochord ; anteriorly , however , they are still separate , a median slit-like space , the posterior basicranial fontanelle figs. , being left between them .
The anterior boundary of this aperture is formed by the inturned hook-like anterior ends of the parachordals which meet in the middle line , and , at the same time , form the posterior limit of the carotid foramina ( Int.car .
) .
The precise form of the auditory capsules could not be deduced with accuracy from the sections , but it is almost certainly not very different from what we find in t , he next two in which it was made out by dissection .
In the ) region ( figs. 86 , 93 , and 94 , B.Sph .
) the skull-floor is widely open below , the trabeculae not having united in the middle ventral line .
The space thus formed is filled with connectlve tissue which supports the body ( Pty. ) , and through which the internal carotid arteries Int. enter .
Cephalad of the pituitary body the trabeculae are in close contact , save for a thin stratum of prochondral t , issue , each sends off outwards and downwards a large basipterygoid process , the size of which , so much greater proportionally than in later stages , is worthy of notice .
In the posterior presphenoidal region the trabeculae are still AND DEVELOPMENT OF separated by a layer of prochondral tissue , and each sends off dorsad a vertical plate ( Pr .
Sph .
' ) , which bounds the optic foramen ( Nv .
II .
) in front , and at its dorsal edge is continued into the orbitosphenoid ( Orb .
Sph In later stages , these vertical offshoots of the trabecuIae have united in the median plane to form the impaired presphenoid cartilage ( cf. figs. 86 and 91 with figs. 98 and 116 ) ; their distinctn in the present stage is interesting as showing that the prenasal ] or intertrabecula does not extend so far back in Birds as in Crocodiles ( 34 , Plate 63 , fig. 4 ) , and , Plate 2 , fig. 6 ) .
In the anterior presphenoidal region the trabeculae are continued into a single cartilage , pyriform in transverse section ; its ventral region is unpaired , and may possibly , though not probably , be formed from a prenasal cartilage , but its dorsal region is still unchondrified in the median plane , and the whole structure appears to be a continuation of the trabeculae .
The mesethmoid ( figs. 85 , 86 , 88 , 89 , M.Eth .
) is well chondrified below , but the formation of cartilage has not yet extended to its dorsal border ; it shows no indication of being formed from paired trabeculae .
The lateral offshoots of the trabecular region of the skul ] are already ] developed .
The ectoethmoids are only chondrified posteriorly ; they already extend backwards caudad of the middle of the eye ( fig. 90 ) .
The orbitosphenoid plates ( Orb .
Sph .
) are immense ; they spring from the whole length of the long presphenoid region and extend backwards , bounding the optic foramen ( Nv .
II .
) above , as far as the parachordal region .
The alisphenoids ( Al .
Sph .
) , on the other hand , are comparatively small , and owing to the flexure their long ( antero-posterior ) axis is nearly vertical instead of horizontal .
The trigeminal ( Nv .
) and orbito-nasal foramina have their usual position between the alisphenoid and the auditory capsule .
In these and other points the resemblance of the Kiwi 's skull at this stage to that of an embryo Mammal Plate , or Crocodile ( 34 , Plate 63 , fig. 6 ) , is very striking .
The only indication of the turbinals is an in-pushing of the ectoethmoids immediately : over the posterior nares ( fig. This is the of the accessory turbinal , which is thus the first of these ectoethmoidal folds to appear .
The quadrate ( Qn .
) , as far as could be made out from the sections , has a single head articulating with the prootic region of the auditory capsule .
The mandible ( Mck .
) consists entirely of MECKEL'S cartilage , which is expanded at its proximal or articular end .
The columella figs. has its knotted mesial end inserted into the fenestra ovalis , and its outer end or extra-stapedial ( E.St .
) fixed to the tympanic membrane ; near the middle of its length it gives off a slightly curved downwardly directed process , the infia-stapedial .
I can detect no trace of supra-stapedial .
The tongue-cartilage ( so-called hyoid ) consists of a median basibranchial ( fig. 90 , PROFESSOR T. J. PARKER ON THE ANATOMY B. giving attachment laterad to a pair of cerato-branchials .
There is no trace of the -shaped cartilage of the adult and advanced embryo , which I take to represent the hyoid arch .
The late appearance of this structure is a good indication that the hyoid proper of Birds is tending to disappear .
It is worthy of notice that cerato-hyals are figured in my Father 's second stage of Chick 's skull ( 31 , Plate Sl , fig. 5 ) , which corresponds roughly in point of development with the Kiwi embryo now under discussion ; this would seem to show that Apteryx is a step nearer atrophy of the hyoid than Gallus .
There is no trace of the palato-pterygoid bar described in early embryos of the Chick ( 31 , Plate 81 , figs. 1 , 3 , and 5 ) : in the palatine and pterygoid .
are in no way distinguishable in their development from the remaining membrane bones .
Stage Plate .
In the single embryo belonging to this the brain was removed and the chondrocranium drawn from above and roughly sketched from the side before being sectioned .
Hence is a drawing of an actual dissection , and figs. 96 and 98 , although in restorations , are correct in all their main features .
The cerebral flexure is about .
The general proportions of the skull are much the same as in the previous stage .
In the parachordal region the notochord ( Nch .
) is clearly seen , and is shown by sections to be surrounded with cartilage only in the neighbourhood of the occipital condyle .
Elsewhere the parachordal cartilages have not met above the notochord , and their union below it does not extend very far forwards .
The occipital arch is completed dorsad by prochondral tissue .
The auditory capsules ( Au .
) have rounded dorsal and mesial contours ; laterad they are produced into well-marked processes bounding the tympanic recesses .
The foramina for the facial and auditory glossopharyngeal vagus nerves are well seen , but there is no indication of the floccular fossa .
The pituitary fossa ( fig. 97 , Pty. F. ) is a deep pit with a nearly circular outline , bounded in front by the presphenoidal region and behind by the high dorsum sellae or postclinoid wall ( Dors.sell .
) , which extends transversely between the alisphenoids .
In a dissection such as that fro1n which fig. 97 is taken , the fossa appears to be conbounded by rtilage , but sections show that this is not the case .
The middle portion of the dorsum sellae is formed of connective tissue ( fig. 101 ) in which the upturned end of the notochord is embedded , and the floor of the fossa contains three median fontanelles filled with fibrous Qsue continuous with the perichondrium .
The hindmost of these figs. is the posterior basicranial fontanelle already noticed ( p. 58 ) : it is bounded behind by notochord ( Nch .
) and its ventral cartilaginous investment , and in front by a transverse bar of cartilage which separates it from the next or middle basicranial fontanelle ( m.bcr .
) .
This AND LOPMENT OF APTERYX .
latter looks , in the present stage , almost directly forwards , and is separated from the third or anterior basicranial fontanelle ( .bcr.fo .
) by another transverse bar of cartilage .
The anterior fontanelle is bounded in front by the presphenoid and extending into it from the mouth is seen the remains of the pituitary evagination ( fig. 101 , Pty.ped .
) .
In a section taken very slightly laterad of the median plane ( fig. 102 ) , the pituitary fossa is Qeen to be completely bounded by cartilage , both its floor and posterior wall fully ified : the basicranial fontanelles are , therefore , extremely narrow from side to side .
In the Chick my Father figures only two basicranial fontanelles , corresponding with those I have called anterior and posterior ( 31 , Plate 83 , fig. 2 ) : of the middle aperture I have seen no account in the works of previous observers .
My observations are not sufficiently complete to allow of a full explanation of these spaces and of the bars of cartiIage which separate them ; but after a careful comparison of this with the previous stage , I am disposed to think that fig. 103 offers a reasonable theory of this most difficult part of the skull .
The figure is diagrammatic , and represents the basisphenoidal region on one plane , the cerebral flexure being supposed to be straightened out .
The dotted lines show the outlines of the trabeculae ( Tr. ) and parachordals ( Pa.ch .
) , and it will be seen that I suppose the commissure to be formed by the inturned posterior ends of the trabeculae , the commissure by the inturned anterior ends of the parachordals described in the previous stage ( p. 58 , In the diagram the upturned end of the notochord is supposed to be cut off The orbitosphenoids ( Orb .
Sph .
) are still very large , although smaller than the alisphenoids ( Al .
Sph .
) .
The whole preorbitosphenoidal region is saddle-shaped ( fig. 97 ) , being convex from before backwards , and concave from side to side , with , how- ever , a slight rise in the middle ( cf. fig. 116 ) .
The anterior border of the alisphenoid overlaps the posterior border of the orbitosphenoid .
The presphenoid is arge , and the paired upgrowths of the trabeculae which form it have apparently completely concresced , but as this part of the skull was sectioned longitudinally , it is impossible to be as certain on this point as if transverse sections also had been examined .
The posterior part of the ectoethmoidal plate is well chondrified , and the three principal turbmals have appeared .
The olfactory chamber is continued from the turbinal region to the end of the beak ( fig. 100 ) as a narrow tube lined with a low columnar epithelium , and completely filled with cells evidently derived from the proliferation of the epithelium , so that at this stage there is no actual communicationl between the olfactory sac and the exterior except by way of the posterior nares and the mouth : this is well shown in fig. 114 , taken from a transverse section of the following stage .
The quadrate ( Qu .
) was itely ascertained to articulate with the capsule by a single head .
The columella ( fig. 99 ) shows the three processes of the extracolumellar region ; owing to the cerebral flexure , the direction of the supra-stapedial is backwards and downwards .
There is still no trace of the hyoid portion of the entoglossaJ , but both basibranchial and posterior cornua are well chondrified .
The position of the future membrane bones is indicated in the sections by deeplystained patches , formed of close-set mesoblast cells .
The rudiments of the palatine and pterygoid are in no way distingmshable from those of the remaining parostoses .
( Plate 10 , figs. 104-119 ) .
The skull of this embryo was partially cleaned by dissection , and sketched from above , from below , and from the left side before being stained and sectioned .
The cerebral flexure is greatly reduced , the cranio-facial angle being nearly This , and the elongation of the prenasal cartilage Pr .
have greatly altered the form of the chondrocranium , which now approaches that of the adult , although presenting very important differences .
The parachordal legion has undergone little alteration : there is a large posterior basicranial fontanelle ( .
bcr.fo ) filled with connective tissue , which is continued dorsad as the median portion of the dorsum seIlae ( Dors .
Sell .
) , and has imbedded in it the anterior end of the notochord ( Nch .
) .
Immediately above the latter , but quite independent of it , a nodule of cartilage ( figs. 108 , 109 , 111 , and 112 , evidently formed as a distinct chondrite in the prochordal plate ( Plate 2 and 3 , figs. 17 I propose to call it the prochordal cartilage .
It appears to answer either to the little cap of cartilage which sheaths the end of the notochord in helone Plate , or to the vertical plate , lying altogether dorsad of the notochord ( marked p.cl .
) , and forming the dorsum sellae .
In the present instance it is certainly an independent element of the chondrocranium .
On ALBRECHT'S theory ( 1 ) that the dorsum sellae is an " " epipituitare trum-complex , \ldquo ; the prochordal cartilage may very fairly do duty for a centrum , the paired processes of the prochordal plate in stage , representing the corresponding neuroids which atrophy without chondrification , but in the absence of any account of the grounds upon which ALBRECHT'S views rest , beyond the short paper referred to , I am not posed to consider them as very well founded .
The structure of the pituitary fossa is naltered , the anterior and middle ( m.bcr .
) basicranial fontanelles being very obvious .
All three fontanelles are of less width from side to side than the prochordal cartilage , as shown by fig. 112 , taken about mm. from the median plane .
The posterior of the two cartilaginous commissures separating the fontanelles is now largely caudad of the anterior one , instead of being altogether below it as in the previous stage ( cf. figs. 101 and 111 ) ; this is an obvious result of the straightening of the skull floor .
The alisphenoids are somewhat larger than in the preceding stage , the orbitosphenoids are almost unaltered in relative size .
The ectoethmoids ( .E'th .
) are still largely composed of prochondral tissue ( figs. 113-115 ) , only their posterior portions ( fig. 116 , Ec .
Eth .
5 ) consisting of hyaline cartilage .
In addition to the AND fENT OF APTERYX .
C.3 turbinals present in the previous stage , the ventral accessory fold has appeared .
Transverse sections of the beak show very clearly the complete filling up of the anterior portion of the nasal chamber with epithelial cells ( fig. 114 ) .
The quadrate ( Qu .
) undergone no alteration : its head is still single , articulating only with the auditory capsule , although , as shown by sections , embraced externally by the rudiment of the squamosal ( fig. 119 , Qu .
, In the the stapedial is apparently somewhat longer than in the previous stage .
The tonguecartilage still shows no trace of its hyoid portion ( fig. 110 ) .
The membranous foundations of the membrane bones are now well shown , but no actual ossificabion has yet appeared .
In sections ( figs. 113-119 ) the -rudiments have very much the appearance of the bones themselves in a later stage af'ter decalci- fication , excel ) that the matrix , in which the lime salts subsequently appear , takes on a hter tint with borax-carmine .
The identity in mode of development between the palatine and pterygoid and the remaining membrane bones is illustrated by fig. 117 , in which the rudiments of the quadrato-jugal and pterygoid ( Ptg .
' ) are seen to be of precisely similar character .
There is so far no trace of the ginous articular surfaces on the pterygoid , quadrato-jugal , and squamosal .
Stage ( Plates 11 and 12 , figs. 120-145 ) .
This is one of the most important stages in the opment of the skull , the chondrocranium having practically attained its final form , and nearly all the membrane bones having appeared .
I greatly regret that one of the two specimens belonging to this stage ( A. oweni ) was so much damaged as to be unreliable except for general purposes ; all details had therefore to be made out from the complete series of transverse sections of A. australis .
The cerebral flexure has almost disappeared , the axis of the prenasal region being very nearly in the same straight line as the notochord .
The parachordals have largely united beneath the notochord , but the latter still comes to the surface of the basis cranii .
The auditory capsules have nearly attained their adult form ; the floccu ] fossa is well developed , and a deep groove figs. has appeared on the outer face of the posterior region of the capsule , which , closed laterad by the squamosal , becomes in later stages a pneumatic cavity tigs . .
Immediately caudad of the dorsum sellae the parachordals separate in the middle line to form the posterior basicranial fontanelle , the notochord at the same time turning dorsad figs. .
At this level the alisphenoids ( fig. 140 , Al .
are seen in section to be continuous with the parachordals , and the orbitonasal nerve ( Nv .
) is seen passing through the cartilage to reach the external aperture of the tunnel-like orbitonasal foramen .
Considerably less than 1 mm. cephalad of this point ( fig. ls9 ) , the posterior basicranial fontauelle has come to an end by the formation of the transverse commissure already seen in preceding stages .
This commissure unites the parachordals some distance dorsad of their ventral edge , so that these latter project as a pair of nearly parallel ridges ( figa 124 and 139 , which bound the posterior basicranial fontanelle on either side , and disappear anteriorly at about the level of the carotid foramina , i.e. , just caudad of the basipterygoid processes .
Immediately above the commissure is the fibrous tissue forming the middle of the dorsum containing the nodular prochordal cartilage ( figs. 126 and 139 , the distinctness of which both from the parachordal and trabecular regions of the skull is perfectly clear .
The middle basicranial fontanelle has disappeared by the concrescence of the commissures and ; the anterior fontanelle ( .
bcr.fo .
) is , however , still present , its general direction being a little forwards from the pituitary fossa as well as downwards , so that the aperture by which it opens on the ventral surface of the skull is just cephalad of the vertical posterior border of the prespheI ) ( figs. 134 and 135 ) .
The pedicle of evagination of the pituitary ( pty.ped .
) can be traced from the fontanelle forwards and downwards to the mouth , perforating in its course the parasphenoidal rostrum ( fig. 134 , Roast .
) ; the fontanelle itself is covered by the stroma into which the ossification of the rostrum subsequently extends .
alisphenoid has the usual relations ; it passes below into the trabecular and parachorda ] regions , and extends nearly as far forwards as the optic foramen ( Nv .
II lying , in the anterior part of its course , outside the orbitosphenoid ( figs. 137-189 ) .
It is perforated in the usual way by the fifth nerve .
The presphenoid ( Pr .
Sph .
) is still nearly as long antero-posteriorly as in the three previous stages , but the orbito-sphenoids ( Orb .
Sph .
) have undergone a marked reduction .
Posteriorly they form nearly vertical plates bounding the optic foramina above ( fig. 136 ) ; furthel forward they lie one on either side of the presphenoid , their point of origin being considerably below its dorsal edge ( fig. 135 ) , but gradually rising until in their anterior region ( fig. 133 ) , they form lateral offshoots of the dorsal border of the presphenoid as in previous stages , but greatly diminished in width .
A comparison of figs. 105 , , and 75 shows very clearly how the large orbitosphenoid of Stage becomes a mere band of cartilage in the ripe embryo .
The mesethmoid has a rounded , rod-like , lower border , its middle portion is narrow from side to side , while dorsad it expands again as it passes into the ecto- ethmoids , so as to be sub-triangular in section ( figs. 131 , 132 ) .
It presents one peculiarity not met with in any other stage ; at the level of the anterior accessoly turbinal ( fig. 132 , A.A. Trb .
) , and of the posterior nares Pt. it contains near its upper border a small rounded cavity filled with connective tissue , about mm. in diameter , and probably , since it extends ugh rather more than 20 sections , nearly mm. from before backwards .
I am disposed to considerthis vacuity as probably homologous with the cranio-facial notch of the Chick ( 31 , Plate 83 , fi c.f.e. ) ; I cannot be sure , from my Father 's description , whether it corresponds with the figured ) BLANCHARD .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
The ectoethmoids have attained their full development , except that chondrification is still incomplete anteriorly ( fig. 129 ) : even the small forwardlydirected process of the fifth portion is already well formed .
The turbinaIs are also fully developed , amd all but the naso-turbinal are chondrified : the latter , as also the anterior portion of the ectoethmoid , has not even reached the grade of prochondral tissue , but is indicated only by a concentration of nuclei in the mesoblast .
Owing to the length of the presphenoidal region the postexior wall of the olfactory chamber or antorbital plate ( see p. 48 ) does not reach backwards to the optic foramen as in later .
The external nostril and the anterior part ( about 4 or 5 mm. ) of the nasal chamber are filled with a solid mass of epithelial cells ( fig. 128 ) .
The rudiment of JACOBSON'S cartilage appears as a somewhat illdefined area of prochondral tissue extending through nearly forty sections , and , therefore , probably not more than 1 mm. in length .
The quadrabe has the outer side of its head in close proximity to the squamosal ( fig. 142 , Qu .
, Sq but no articular cavity is yet developed for its reception on the latter bone .
The cartilaginous cartilage ( Mck .
) with its articular expansion ( Art.)\mdash ; and the columella ( Col. ) have no change of importance , and there is still no trace of the hyoid cartilage beyond a slight concentration of nuclei in the mesoblast of the end of tongue ( fig. 132 , C.Hy .
' ) .
The position and extent of the membrane bones were accurately determined from serial sections , so that figs. 120 , 121 , and 122 , although restorations , are far more reliable than drawings of actual dissections would have been in the present very early condition of the bones .
In the sections the bones appear as extremely delicate shining spicules , unstained by carmine : although the head was not decalcified they were not sufficiently advanced to turn the edge of the razor .
The premaxillae ( Pmx .
) appear in the 34th section , i.e. , about mm. from the end of the beak , as paired deposits of bone encircling the prenasal cartiIage , and nearly meeting above ( fig. 127 ) : a few sections further back they have completely united dorsad of the cartilage ; and in the 76th section the arch thus formed has divided into a median dorsal and paired lateral deposits , the rudiments respectively of the nasal and palatine processes ( fig. 129 ) .
It is worthy of notice that even in this early stage there is no indication of the nasal process being double .
The extent of the premaxilla is shown in figures 120-122 : it reaches only about half-way along the beak .
The maxilla begins immediately caudad of the premaxilla , and already shows its characteristic division into palatine and jugal processes .
The jugal and quadrato-juga ] .Ju .
are delicate styles of bone , and the latter shows no indication of the cartilagirous facet by which in later stages it with the quadrate ( fig. 136 ) .
The vomer ( Vo .
) is -shaped , and its forwardly.directed stem has to ipdicate a paired origin .
The palatine is a simple rod ; the pterygoid ( Ptg .
) is forked , and for some distance caudad of the union of its mesial and lateral processes is triradiate in section ( fig. 133 ) : further back it becomes a slender rod ( fig. 136 ) , and abuts against the basipterygoid process ( Bptg.pr .
) and the quadrate ( Qu .
) : it shows at present neither of the carti]aginous articular facets present in the adult .
The rostrum or anterior division of the parasphenoid ( Roast .
) begins a short distance cephalad of the vomer , and ends just in front of the anterior basicranial fontanelle ( fig. 134 ) : it is , however continued backwards beyond the fontanelle by a band of dense into which ossification subsequently extends .
As already mentioned ( p. 64 ) it is perforated a s.hort distance in front of the anterior basicranial fontanelle by the pedicle of evagination of the pituitary body Pty. .
There is no indication of the basitemporals or posterior division of the parasphenoid .
The frontal ( Fr. ) is of considerable extent but very thin : its lower edge is turned in an orbital process , but there is , so far , no trace of the remaining processes of the adult bone .
Its anterior border is continued forwards for a considerable distance more than sections , about by thick fibrous stroma , into which ossification subsequently extends .
There is no trace of the parietal , which is thus very late in making its appearance .
The squamosal ( Sq .
) , on the other hand , is well developed , and is the thickest of all the bones at the present stage : there is , so far , no development of where it comes into contact with the head of the quadrate ( fig. 142 ) .
The nasals are paired patches of bone on the dorsal surface of the moids at thejunction of their third and fourth portions .
Like the frontal the actual bone is continued some distance , both forwards and backwards , by a thick stroma , into which ossification afterwards extends .
The lacrymaJs ( Lac .
) are small concavoconvex deposits , lying just mesiad of the lacrymal ducts .
The dentary ( Dent .
) begins a short distance cephalad of anterior end of MECKEL'S cartilage ( fig. 129 ) and very soon divides into dorsal and ventral bars , which , after the appearance of the cartilage ( fig. 130 ) lie respectively dorso-Iaterad and ventro-mesiaa1 of it , but gradually take up the first a lateral , the second a ventral position .
The entire bone extends backwards about two-fifths of the length of MECKEL'S cartilage , and is continued caudad for a considerable distance by unossified stroma .
The splenial ( Spl .
) begins a short distance caudad of the posterior end of the dentary , and is about half the length of that bone .
Both angular ( Ang .
) and supraangular commence a little in front of the posterior end of the splenial and extend back to the articular expansion of MECKEL'S cartilage .
The coronary ( Cor. ) is a slender style situated just in front of the articular expansion .
Stage ( Plates 12-14 , figs. 146-171 ) .
In this stage the cartilage bones have appeared ; all the membrane bones are present , , the parietals and basitemporals , in addition to those AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
devel.oped in the previous stage ; and the skull has , in all essential respects , apart from ankylosis , attained its final form .
As in fig. 146 ( Plate 12 ) , the main difference between the skull at this stage and that of the ripe embryo is the presence of a large fontanelle on the roof of the brain-case , due to the limited extent of the parietals and frontals .
There is thus a very.considerable gap between stages and , and certain points in the history of the skull , and especially of the basisphenoidal region , can only be finally settled by the examination of intermediate stages .
The form of the chondrocranium ( fig. 147 ) differs from that of the ripe embryo only in the more rounded contours of the auditory capsule : it will , therefore , be unnecessary to describe it in detail , except in so far as it is modified by the appearance of the cartilage bones and of the basitemporaJs .
The basioccipital ( B. Oc .
) is a lanceolate bone surrounding the notochord , and shown by sections ( figs. 168-170 ) to consist of tolerably dense inner ( dorsal ) and outer ( ventral ) plates , apparently ectosteal , united by bone of looser texture around the notochord .
The exoccipitals ( Ex. Oc .
) are also double , their inner and outer laminae being continuous round the lateral border of the foramen magnum , as wel ] as round the foramen ( fig. 171 ) .
The supraoccipital has not appeared in one of the specimens belonging to this stage ( A. bulleri , fig. 147 ) ; in the other it is present as an impaired ectosteal deposit consisting of outer and inner laminae .
There is no. indication of its being formed of paired osteites , as in the Chick ( 31 , Plate 82 , fi .
The prootic ( Pr .
Ot .
) is a small irregular bone on the inner face of the anterior region of the auditory capsule : it is ectosteal and penetrates for a very short distance into the cartilage ( fig. 169 ) .
The opisthotic ( fig. 171 , Op. Ot .
) is a small endostosis in the postero-ventral region of the auditory capsule , immediately mesiad of the iculus and laterad of the exoccipital .
There is no indication of a separate epiotic , but it appears to be already fused with the supraoccipital , since the latter bone is traceable on each side into the auditory capsule as far as the posterior semicircular canal .
The interpretation of the basisphenoidal region is made difficult by three changes which have occurred simultaneously since the previous stage .
The parosteal basitemporals and the endosteal basisphenoid have made their appearance : these two bones have partly ankylosed , and the cartilage of the region has undergone absorption .
In the entire chondrocranium the basisphenoid ( fig. 147 , B.Sph .
) appears in a view from above as an irregular bone forming the floor of the pituitary fossa and the dorsum sellae , and ending caudad immediately in front of the posterior basicranial fontanelle ( .
bcr.fo .
) , which separates it from the basioccipital .
A ventral view ( fig. 148 ) shows the basitemporals already united with one another and with the rostrum .
Their posterior edge is deeply notched , and between the notch and the basioccipital lies the posterior basicranial fontanelle ( bp.crfo .
) filled with connective tissue .
A transverse section through the posterior basicranial fontanelle ( Plate 14 , fig. 167 ) shows the cartilage of this region to be hardly at all absorbed , and to consist of paired halves , each with a broad ventral.portion bounding the fontanelle ( .
bcr.fo .
) and of a narrow dorsal portion inclined outwards .
The basitemporals are seen as paired parostoses lying ventrad of the cartilage , passing upwards into the fontanelle and partially ossifying the cartilage on each side .
The lateral extension of the basitemporals beyond the cartilage is noteworthy as a , ccounting for the increased breadth of the fully ossified skull in this region ( cf. Plate 9 , fig. 76 , with Plate 11 , fig. 124 ) , and for the altered position of the carotid foramina , the arteries becoming enclosed between the basitemporals and the cartilage ( cf. figs. 140 and 167 , Int. Car The section shown in fig. 166 is taken through the dorsum sellae , and may therefore be considered as corresponding with fig. 139 ( Plate 12 ) of the previous stage and with fig. 118 ( Plate 10 ) of Stage F. The basitemporals have extended dorsad on each side , so as to come in contact with the basisphenoidal cartilage at its junction with the alisphenoids .
A considerable space is thus shut in on each side of the primitive basis cranii , enclosing the internal carotid Int. completely and the Eustachian tube partly .
A large cavity ( pn .
) is also enclosed in the same space , filled at present with coagulum , but becoming in the adult the pneumatic cavity of the basis cranii .
The section passes through the posterior end of the basisphenoid bone ( B.Sph .
) , which extends downwards into the cartilage .
The latter is largely absorbed , but the irregular area Pr .
Ch. probably represents the prochordal cartilage , and the mass the commissural band of earlier stages .
In the next section figured ( fig. 165 ) , which is also through the dorsum sellae and not more than mm. cephalad of fig. 166 , the absorption of cartilage has gone farther still , mere traces of the medio-ventral region of the basisphenoid cartilage being left .
The three next sections ( figs. 164 , 163 , and 162 ) are taken at short intervals between the dorsum sellae and the pituitary body .
In the hindmost ( fig. 164 ) the depression for the pituitary fossa has already begun as far as the cartilage is concerned , but is bridged over by the basisphenoid bone ( B.Sph .
) .
Thus it would seem that one result of ossification is to fill up the hinder part of the pituitary fossa , and so to reduce slightly its antero-posterior extent ( cf. Plate , fig. 111 , and ] fig. 174 ) .
In fig. 163 the internal carotids Int. are seen emerging through their foramina into the pituitary fossa , so that this section corresponds fairly with fig. 138 ( Plate 12 ) of Stage G. The cal.tilage is retained to a greater extent than in succeeding sections , there being a small ventro-lateral patch , which in fig. 162 ( Plate 13 ) is seen to pass into .
the root of the basipterygoid process ( B.ptg .
) .
In both fig. 162 and fig. 163 the distinction between the basitemporal and the basiAND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
sphenoid is well marked ventrally , there being a distinct space between the two .
Laterally , however , they pass into one another , and it would require a careful examination of one or more earlier stages to determine exactly their respective limits .
As far as I can judge from the whole series of sections of the present stage , the colouring in figs. 161-167 is correct .
Fig. 161 passes through the pituitary body ( Pty. ) and the anterior basicranial fontanelle .
The basitemporal covers the fontanelle and is continuous on each side with the basisphenoid , which has here the form of paired ossifications in the cartilage , extending ventro-laterad into the basipterygoid processes .
At the level of the optic chiasma the basisphenoid cartilage is quite unossified , and is underlaid by the rostral portion of the parasphenoid ( Roast .
) , which shows no tendency to invade the cartilage either here or elsewhere .
It appears , therefore , that the basisphenoid bone , in this stage , is an unpaired ossification in the medio-ventral region of the pituitary fossa , extending upwards or backwards into the dorsum sellae , and sending forward paired prolongations on each side of the anterior basicranial fontanelle ; that the basitemporal is a flat bone applied to the basisphenoid and curved upwards on each side so to abut against the chondrocranium at the junction of the basi- with the ali-sphenoids and enclose paired spaces , external to the chondrocranium but mesiad of the basitemporal , containing the internal carotids and the pneumatic cavities of the skull floor ; and tha.t the basitemporal basisphenoid have already largely ankylosed .
In this way the form of the basisphenoidal region is profoundly altered by ossification .
Moreover , a glance at the sections shows that the pituitary fossa is much shalIower , and the whole of this region of the skull more depressed , in this than in the preceding stage .
ompare particularly fig. 161 with fig. 136 , fig. 163 with fig. 138 , fig. 166 with fig. 139 , and fig. 167 with fig. 140 .
The alisphenoid ( fig. 165 , Al .
Sph .
) is ossified by a double ectosteal deposit .
The presphenoid and orbitosphenoids are unossified , but the latter , reduced as already mentioned to a narrow band ( fig. 147 , Orb .
Sph .
) , is overlaid by the orbitosphenoid process of the frontal ( fig. 159 , An endostosis has made its appearance in the mesethmoid ( figs. 156 , 157 , Eth .
Pr , Sph but in the specimen of A. bulleri it does not extend to the dorsal board .
of the cartilage , and is therefore not visible from outside ( figs. 146 , 147 ) .
The turbinals are quite unossified , but the anterior portions of these and of the lateral ethmoids are now fully chondrified ( figs. 149-159 ) .
The anterior part of the nasal cavity as far back as the junction of the first second portions of the ectoethmoid is still filled with a solid mass of epithelial cells ( figs. 150-152 ) .
The relations of the antrum of HIGHMORE are well seen in this stage .
It is a spacious cavity ( fig. 158 , Ant. Hgh .
) containing coagulum , lying ventro-laterad of the posterior portion of the ectoethmoid and below the orbit .
Its posterior limit is at about the level of the hinder boundary of the eye : in front it divides into two branches , one of which ( fig. 156 , Ant. Hgh .
' ) enters the cavity of the anterior accessory turbinal ( A.A. while the other Ant. passes forward just outside the ventral region of the ectoethmoid and soon ends blindly .
I was not able to make out any connection between the antrum and the olfactory cavity .
body of the quadrate Plate is ossified , but its articular ends ( figs. 165 and 169 ) and orbital process ( fig. 160 ) are still cartilaginous .
The otic process has its adult relations , articulating with the prootic , the alisphenoid , and the cartilaginous facet of the squamosal ( fig. 169 ) .
The articular ( fig. 165 , Art .
) is not yet ossified .
The membrane bones have advanced so far that there is nothing to add to the description of Stage , except to mention that the dentaries and splenials have not yet ankylosed .
Stage ( Plate 14 , figs. 172-174 ) .
The advance beyond the previous stage is slight , the most important differences being due to the extension of the cartilage bones .
The supraoccipital ( fig. 172 , S.Oc .
) is well ossified : the ethmo-presphenoid ( Eth .
Pr.Sph .
) has appeared on the surface , and extends both into the ectoethmoids and into the anterior half of the crista ] .
All the other cartilage bones have increased in size so as to reduce the width of the synchondroses , and the great fontanelle in the roof of the skull has also diminished considerab]y .
In two of the specimens belonging to this stage sagittal sections of the basis cranu were made : these are shown in figs. 173 and 174 , and illustrate certain points in the structure of this region of the skull with great clearness .
In both sections the basioccipital ( B. Oc .
) is seen to end at the hinder boundary of the posterior basicranial fontanelle ( .
bcr.fo .
) , the ventral lamina of the bone extending further forwards than its dorsal lamina .
The notochord ( Nch .
) emerging from between the two laminae , turns upwards and is traceable for some distance up the dorsum sellae , being imbedded in the periosteum of the latter , and in the connective tissue of the posterior basicranial fontanelle .
In one of the two specimens examined ustralis , a considerable portion of the cartilage of the basisphenoidal region is retained .
The median portion of the dorsum sellae is formed by a large cartilage Pr .
apparently derived from the prochordal cartilage of earlier stages ( Plate 11 , fig. 126 , Pr .
There is also a large irregular mass of unabsorbed cartilage ( xy ) in the floor of pituitary fossa , evidently the remains of the commissure marked in Stage ( fig. 126 ) .
The basisphenoid bone ( B.Sph .
) is a thin plate continuous behind with the basitemporal ( B. In the other specimen ( A. bulleri , fig. 174 ) the basisphenoidal cartilage is completely absorbed and there is no trace of the prochordal nodule .
The basisphenoid AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
71 bone is continuous with the basitemporal both in front and behind , the posterior ankylosis being immediately cephalad of the posterior basicranial fontanelle ( p.bcr .
) , anterior immediately caudad of the anterior fontanelle ( .
bcr.fo .
) . .
Changes Undergone by the Skutl subsequent to Hatching .
Stage In a specimen of Apteryx a few weeks old the skull is considerably thicker and firmer than at the time of hatching .
The intervals between the roofing bones are less than in Stage , but their edges are still connected by membrane , there being no true sutures .
Stage In the dried skeleton of a young A. oweni the various cranial bones are still separate but in close contact with one another , the synchondroses between the cartilage bones being reduced to a minimum , and the roofing bones articulating with one another by true dentated sutures .
The ethmo-presphenoid , although larger than in previous stages , has not yet extended into the presphenoid region , which is still cartilaginous .
The turbinals had unfortunately been removed in preparing the skull : they were probably not yet ossified .
This stage consists of the dried skull of a young specimen of A. oweni .
Ankylosis has taken place between the occipital and otic bones and the basi-and ali-sphenoids .
lambdoidal suture is obliterated , but the coronal , sagittal , and frontal sutures still remain , as well as those between the frontals and alisphenoids .
The ethmo-presphenoid bone has extended so as to ossify the presphenoid , nearly the whole of the fifth or posterior portion of the ectoethmoid , the roof of the third and fourth portions , and the greater part of the turbinals : in the mesethmoid it has extended as far forward as the anterior end of the parasphenoidal rostrum .
The bony ectoethmoids are still separate from the mesethmoid both ventrad and caudad , but the ethmo-presphenoid has already ankylosed both with the rostrum and with the orbitosphenoid processes of the frontals .
Stage In two sub-adult skulls of A. oweni the sagittal , coronal , frontal , and fronto.alisphenoidal sutures are retained .
The ectoethmoidal portion of the ethmo-pre- sphenoid bone has further extended and has ankylosed with the perpendicular plate ( mesethmoid plus presphenoid ) , the basisphenoid , and the descending process of the Rontal .
The lacrymal and the descending process of the nasal are still distinct , and the sutures between the premaxillae , maxillae , palatines , pterygoids , and vomer aoe open .
Adult .
In the adult skull the sutures in the brain case have completely disappeared : the nasals have ankylosed with the nasal processes of the premaxillae , with one another , and with the ethmo-presphenoid : the lacrymal has united with the ectoethmoid and with the descending process of the nasal ; and the palatine processes of the pre- maxillae , the maxillae , jugals , quadrato-jugals , vomer , palatines , and pterygoids , are all immovably united together .
Thus the quadrate and the columella are the only free bones in the skull .
Owing , however , to the slenderness of the connection between the nasal and palatine processes of the premaxillae , and to the fact that the bones of the palate remain from those of the base of the skull , the whole palate ( i.e. , the united palatine processes of the premaxillae , maxillae , jugals , quadratojugals , palatines , pterygoids , and vomer ) can be lifted away from the skull proper , the slender body of the premaxillae serving as a hinge .
2 .
THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN , INCLUDING THE RIBS . .
At the time of Hatching .
( Plate 15 , figs. 175-190 .
) The detailed descriptions of the vertebral column the adult given by OWEN ( 24 ) and by MIVART ( 21 ) allow me to confine myself to such points of structure as can only be made out by the examination of young specimens .
For descriptive purposes find it necessary to make a slight addition to the terminology of this part of the skeleton .
As BAUR ( 4 ) has pointed out , the so-called neurapophyses and pleurapophyses are not processes of the body but distinct elements , and he , therefore , proposes to call them respectively neuroids and pleuroids .
He does not state , however , whether these terms are intended to apply to the cartilaginous or to the bony vertebrae or to both .
The distinction is an important one because the ossifications which appear in the neuroids extend ventrad into the centrum , so that the cartilaginous and bony elements of the vertebra do not ctly correspond one with another .
In practice I find it very convenient to be able to state without unnecessary circumlocution , not only whether a given process springs from centrum or neul.oid , but whether it is connected with the ossification of the centrum or with the ossification of the neuroid .
Starting with the terms chondrite and osteite already proposed ( p. 43 ) , the cartilages of which any vertebral segment is formed will be called respectively the centrochondrite , neurochondrites , and pleurochondrites .
By the concrescence of AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
these is formed a cartilaginous vertebra , the regions of which are centrum , neuroids , and pleul.oids .
When ossification takes place one or two centres appear in the body , the centrosteites , one in each neuroid , the neurosteites , which extend ventrad into the body , and one in each pleuroid , the pleurosteites .
Thus the entire centrum of the bony vertebra , although co-extensive with that of its cartilaginous predecessor , consists not only of the single or paired centrosteites but of the ventral ends of the neurosteites .
The atlas of a newly-hatched Kiwi ( Plate 15 , figs. 175 and 176 ) consists of three distinct osteites , united by synchondrosis .
As is proved by the development of the bone ( p. 79 ) , the ossification which forms the ventral portion , or so-called body ( pt.oc.int .
) , is not the centrosteite but a postoccipital intercentrum .
It is semi- lunar in form , having a concave dorsal and a convex ventral border ; its anterior face is concave , its posterior face convex , and both are thinly covered with cartilage .
The neurosteites ( n.ost .
) are separated from the intercentrum by broad cartilaginous intervals , and meet with one another in the middle dorsal line by a very narrow synchondrosis .
Between the dorsal border of the " " body\ldquo ; and the broad cartilaginous ventral ends of the neuroids is a nearly semi-circular notch , across which is stretched a strong transverse ligament ( lg .
) perforated in the centre for the odontoid .
In this stage , therefore , the atlas has quite as obvious a dorsal notch as that of the other Ratitae ( cf. MIVART , 21 , p. 34 ) .
There is no trace of the hypapophysis present in the adult , and the hyperapophyses are small .
The axis ( figs. 177-179 ) contains altogether seven ossifications\mdash ; three in the compound body , one in each neuroid , and one in each pleuroid or transverse process .
The centrosteite of the axis itself ( c.ost .
) forms rather more than the posterior half of the body ; it is flat in front , and presents behind the usual saddle-shaped surface covered by cartilage , in which a slight dimple marks the .
position of the noto- chord .
Immediately cephalad of the dorsal half of this bone is the separate ossification of the odontoid ( Od .
) , which as BAUR has shown in Carinatae , and as will also appear from the consideration of earlier stages ( p. 79 ) is really the centrosteite of the atlas .
The odontoid is far less aberrant than in the adult ( 21 , p. 34 ) , being short and blunt with a flat dorsal and a convex ventral surface .
The third ossification of the body lies beneath the odontoid and cephalad of the ventral half of the true centrum ; it is a rersely elongated bone with a concave anterior surface .
It represents a second or post-atlantal intercentrum .
The neurosteites are united above by a thick mass of cartilage produced into a short blunt neural spine .
The perforated transverse processes or pleuroids contain each a smail pleurosteite ( pl.ost .
) at its ventral end ; this is the ' small and rudimentary parapophysial process\ldquo ; of MIVAmT .
The 3rd to the 15th vertebrae ( figs. 180-182 ) resemble one another in essentials ; in matters of detail there is nothing to add to MIVART'S description .
Each contains five ossifications , a centrosteite ( c.ost .
) forming the greater part of the body , paired neurosteites .
ost ossifying the neuroids and the dorso-lateral portions of the body , and paired pleurosteites ( .ost .
) , ossifying the ventral portions of the pleuroids .
The neuro-central suture is somewhat oblique from before backwards , being lower at its anterior than at its posterior end ; as a consequence , a smaller proportion of the body is formed from the neurosteites behind than in front ( cf. figs. 181 and 182 ) .
The most striking difference of the cervical vertebrae in this stage from those of the adult is their relatively smaller antero-posterior dimensions .
This is well seen by comparing fig. 180 with MIVART'S woodcut ( 2 !
, fig. 84 , p. 36 ) of the corresponding vertebra in the adult .
The 16th ( fig. 183 ) is the last cervical vertebra , according to HUXLEY'S notation , the first dorsal ( thoracic ) of OWEN , and the cervico-dorsal better thoracic ) of MIVART .
It differs from its predecessors mainly in the large size of its pleurosteites ( Cv .
Th. Rb .
) , which form slender free ribs about three-fourths the length of the vertebral ribs of the succeeding segment .
MIVART does not specially describe the articulation of these ribs .
OWEN ( 24 , p. 33 ) states that " " the part corresponding to the head and neck , as usual , is not developed , and it is attached to the transverse process by the part analogous to the tubercle From this it would follow that in OWEN'S specimen there was no space corresponding to the vertebrarterial canal of the preceding vertebrae .
In the specimen now under discussion there are large cartilaginous parapophyses springing from the centrum and large cartilaginous downgrowths from the ventral surfaces of the transverse processes or diapophyses ( diap .
) .
The head of the rib is single , but bears two distinct facets , nearly confluent on the left side , tubercular facet articulating with the diapophysis and a capitular facet with the parapophysis .
Between the two is a well-marked vertebrarterial canal .
The so-called uncinate processes are distinct cartilaginous plates , attached by brous tissue to the posterior border of the ribs , and each containing a small endostosis .
As they are not processes of the ribs at all , but , independent chondrites , I propose to call them } ) uncinates .
* In OWEN'S specimen they were absent in the cervico-thoracic vertebra .
In the 17th or first thoracic vertebra the head ( capit .
) of the rib is quite short , and the tnbercle ( tuberc .
) articulates with a thick cushion of cartilage *FuRBRlNGER states ( 11 , p. 632 ) that uncinates have not hitherto been found in Dinornis .
This is certainly not the case ; they have obviously not been described , since it is hardly likely that even the most insignificant paper on the subject can have escaped the learned author of the ' Morphologie und Systematik der Vogel ' ; but they are by no means uncommon in deposits of Moa bones , and are present in no fewer than eight skeletons in the Otago University Museum , usually as distinct bones , but in some cases ankylosed to the ribs .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
on the under side of the transverse process .
In the second thoracic ( fig. 185 ) this cartilage is reduced in thickness , and at the same time the head of the rib is lenghened .
Thus , in passing from the cervical to the thoracic region , there is a gradual ascent of the plane of segmentation between the diapophysis and the tubercle of the rib .
The first four thoracic vertebrae ( 17th to 20th of the whole series ) bear ribs united to the sternum by sified sternal ribs ( see fig. 204 ) ; the next four ( 21st to 24th ) have few ribs , and are called by MIVART dorso-lumbar .
This name appears to me an unfortunate one ; a lumbar vertebra is defined as one devoid of ribs , so that these vertebrae are in no sense transitional between the thoracic and lumbar regions .
The first six thoracic ribs bear uncinates ; in the seventh and eighth these bones are absent .
This is also the case in figure ( 24 , Plates 8 and 9 ) , but it is stated in the text that they are present in all but the last .
The last thoracic ( 24th ) vertebra flgs .
shows transitional characters between the remaining thoracic and the lumbar vertebrae .
The diapophysis is short and confluent at its base with the parapophysis , and the capitular and tubercular facets of its ribs are also confluent .
In one of the specimens belonging to this stage , a newly-hatched A. australis , the last thoracic is already united to the first lumbar by the concrescence of their centro- chrondrites ( figs. 186 and 187 ) ; their centrosteites are , however , quite distinct , and the only union between the arches takes the form of a narrow longitudinal bridge of cartilage from spine to spine .
In an unhatched A. butteri the last thoracic is still free .
The twelve vertebrae following the last thoracic\mdash ; viz. , the 25th to the 36th of he entire series\mdash ; are united together by complete concrescence of their centrochondrites , and.partial concrescence of their arches , by median longitudinal bands uniting the unossified neural spines ( fig. 186 ) .
Both centrosteites and neurosteites are still quite distinct , and the ilia can be readily removed by maceration , so that there is no difiiculty in determining the precise number and character of the vertebrae comprised in the compound sacrum , or , as it may conveniently be termed , syn-sacruJn .
As there is some difference of opinion as to the interpretation of this difficult region , I propose , in the first instance , to describe the facts as I find them in the specimens now under discussion , and afterwards to give the conclusions at which I have arrived as to the classification of the several vertebrae .
In 26th to the 3rd vertebrae the ventral face of the centrum goes a marked flattelling , and , as a consequence , the neuro-central suture or synchondrosis is lowered in position ( fig. 186 ) .
This is especially the case in the 28th vertebra , in which the centrosteite can barely be seen from the side .
At the same time the * In figs. 186-190 , the number in brackets iS that of the vertebrae in the entire series : , the first caudal is marked neural canal is greatly increased in vertical extent , to accommodate the sacral enlargement of the myelon .
In the majority of the vertebrae of the syn-sacrum\mdash ; namely , from the to the 33rd\mdash ; the intervertebral foramina are vertical slits between the ventral ends of the neurosteites .
The 25th vertebra ( Lb .
1 ) resembles the 24th or last thoracic , but its transverse process is smaller , and consists of a low oblique ridge arising entirely from the neurosteite .
In the 26th the transverse process is still blunter , and shows a tendency to divide into two parts , a parapophysis ( parap .
) arising partly from the neuro-central synchondrosis , and a very low roughened elevation on the neurosteite , which represents the In the 27th and 28th vertebrae the di-and pleur-apophysis are separate .
The diapophysis is reduced to a roughened area on the neurosteite , hardly raised above the of the bone ; the pleurapophysis is a blunt process , arising entirely from the neuro-central synchondrosis , and , in the 28th vertebra , of considerable size ( fig. 187 , Lb .
4 , In the next four vertebrae , there is no trace of parapophyses ; in the 29th there is an inconspicuous diapophysial area on the neurosteite , similar to , but smaller than , those preceding vertebrae ; in the 30th and there is no trace of this area , these vertebrae being wholly without transverse processes ; in the although the parapophysis is still absent , the diapophysis is represented by a low cylindrical cartilaginous elevation , arising from the neuroid immediately above the neurosteite , and abutting against the ilium .
In the vertebra ( Sc. 1 ) the diapophysis is like that of its predecessor , but the parapophysis is an outstanding process containing a distinct ossification , the pleurosteite or sacral ( pl.ost .
) .
In the 34th there is also a distinct pleurosteite , which curved forwards so as to approaoh distad the corresponding part of the preceding vertebra , the cartilaginous ends of the two sacral ribs being united ( fig. 187 ) : the diapophysis and parapophysis are united by a vertical ridge of cartilage ( fig. 186 ) .
In the 35th the di-and par-apophysis are also united by a vertical ridge , and the pleurosteite or sacral rib is short and free at its distal end ( fig. The united ends of the first and second sacral ribs abut against the cartilaginous interval between the ilium and ischium , immediately caudad of the acetabulum and mesiad of the antitrochanter .
The 36th vertebra ( Cd .
1 ) has the centrum laterally compressed , and the transverse process is a vertical ridge representing both di-and par-apophysis .
The neurocentral suture in this , and indeed in the two or three preceding vertebrae , is precisely at the of centrum and neuroid , so that , for the first time , the vertebral body consists entirely of the centrosteite , the neurosteites being confined to the arch .
According to HUXLEY'S notation ( 16 ) , the 25th to the 28th vertebrae are lumbar , the 29th to the sacral , while the to the 36th are the first of the cauda ] AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
series .
MIVART ( 21 ) , largely following GEGENBAUR , calls the 25th to the 28th lumbar , the 29th to the Iumbo-sacral , the to the 35th sacral , and the 36th the first caudal .
The two chief factors in determining the question are ( 1 ) the origin of the nerves which unite in the sacral plexus , and ( 2 ) the presence of distinct sa ribs .
HUXLEY lays the greatest stress on the first of these ; both are taken into consideration by GEGENBAUR , as also by MIVART and CLARKE , in whose paper the whole question is discussed .
My Father ( 38 ) follows HUXLEy .
It appears to me that without a fairly complete series of the intermediate forms between Birds and their reptilian or proto-reptilian ancestors , the question is rather one of dialectic than of inductive morphology .
Atter a careful consideration of the arguments , I have come to the conclusion that , in the present case at any rate , GEGENBAUR'S view has the most to be caid for it , and that the vertebrae bearing distinct pleurosteites are those to which the name sacral should be applied .
MIVART'S name , lumbo-sacral , for the presacral vertebrae without parapophyses is convenient , and well worthy of adoption .
The 37th or second caudal is even more compressed than the first , and has no trace of transverse processes .
The 38th is somewhat less compressed , and shows no distinction between centrosteites and neurosteites .
Its arch bears a very inconspicuous diapophysial tubercle , and there is a distinct neural spine .
It is the last vertebra with which the ilia are in contact , so that the syn-sacrum of Apteryx includes three thoracic , four lumbar , four lumbo-sacral , three sacral , and three caudal vertebrae .
The name sacro-caudal , applied to the first three caudal vertebrae by MIVART , although convenient in some respects , is hardly necessary .
If , in the designation of the vertebrae , the fact of their union in the syn-sacrum is to be expressed , the last three thoracic should be called thoracico-sacral , and all the lumbar , lumbo-sacral .
already stated , I propose to retain the name lumbo-sacral for the vertebrae , not to intimate their union in the sacrum , but to express the fact that they are vertebrae of a special character , coming between undoubted lumbar and probable sacral vertebrae .
The 39th or fourth caudal is the first free vertebra of the caudal series .
It is considerably smaller than its predecessors , and its neural spine is so short as to be practically obsolete .
In it also there is no distinction between centrosteites and neurosteites , the ossification of the body passing dorsad into the neuroids .
There is a very short and inconspicuous diapophysis .
The 40th differs from its predecessor in the possession of a short cartilaginous parapophysis in addition to a very inconspicuous diapophysis .
In the ( 6th to 8th caudal ) the di- and par-apophyses have united into a blunt vertically elongated tubercle , which occupies the whole lateral surface of the centrum .
The neuroids are united dorsad by connective tissue , so that the short neural spine is double ( fig. , neur In the ( ninth to eleventh caudal ) the neural canal is open above , the neuroids being widely separated , and , indeed , in the 45th and , slightly divergent ( fig. 189 ) .
The 44th and 45th resemble their immediate predecessors in general form , but the , or last vertebra of the entire series figs. is a broad trough-like bone , somewhat resembling the of many birds .
The and 46th differ from the seven preceding vertebrae in having distinct neurosteites ( figs. 188 and 189 , .
ost .
) in the form of minute endosteal granules in the short neuroids .
vertebral formula of the specimen described may therefore be written thus : S. Sc. .
l5:Cv .
Th. 1 : Th. : Lb .
4 : Lb .
Sc. 4 : Sc. 3 : i.e. , there are fifteen cervical vertebrae , one cervico-thoracic , eight thoracic \mdash ; of which the first five are free , and of these the first four have ribs articulating with the sternum \mdash ; four lumbar , four lumbo-sacral , three sacral , and eleven caudal , of which the last eight are free .
The bracket encloses all those vertebrae which are in contact with the ilia , and so form the syn-sacrum .
There are two caudal intercentra , each consisting of paired cartilages ( int.cent .
) , the first lying between the eighth and ninth caudal vertebrae , the second extending from the posterior end of the ninth to the anterior end of the eleventh .
In a ripe but unhatched chick of A. bulleri referable to this stage , the last thoracic has not yet united with the first lumbar vertebra , but the only differences of importance are in the caudal region , which contains ( fig. 190 ) only nine vertebrae , and a vestige of a tenth .
The ninth of the alone has an open arch , without neurosteites , and the tenth ( Cd .
10 ) is a mere nodule of cartilage attached to the posterior face of the body of its predecessor .
The specimen also serves to confrm the observation made above , that the neuroids of most of the caudal vertebrae are ossified by dorsal extensions of the centrosteite , or in other words , have each but a single centre of ossification .
Development of the Vertebral Column .
Stages and ( Plate 4 , figs. 31-33 ) .
The secondary segmentation of the vertebral column has .
The mesoblastic bomites are still separated by narrow fissures musole plates are differentiated , and the mesoblast surrounding the notochord is undergoing concentration to forrr the rudiments of the vertebral bodies ( figs. 31-33 , Cent Plate figs. .
The patches of concentrated mesoblast from which the centra arise ( fig. 44 , Cent. ) are considerably more obvious than in the preceding stage , and the cells composing them have become arranged in a concentric manner round the notochord ( fig 43 , Cent They have not yet , however , passed into the condition of prochondral tissue AND OF APTERYX .
Stage .
( Plate 15 , figs. 191-193 ) .
The vertebrae are now well chondrified , and in all cases the neuro- and centro-chon- drites have united so as to form complete cartilaginous vertebrae .
The neural arches are , however , incomplete dorsad throughout the whole column , the neuroids not having yet united the spinal cord .
This is particularly well marked in the sacral ( fig. 193 ) and caudal regions , in which the whole dorsai surface of the cord is covered only by membrane .
In the sacral region , moreover , the right and left moieties of the centrum do not quite meet below th .
notochord ( fig. 193 ) , so that the body a narrow membranous interval in the middle ventral line .
The pleurochondrites of the cervical vertebrae or cartilaginous cervical ribs ( fig. 191 , pl.chn .
) have evidently only recently chondrified , and form mere nodules united by membrane with the di- and par-apophyses .
The thoracic ribs ( fig. 192 ) are well chondrified , but there is no trace of sacral ribs , and in fact the whole of the post-thoracic vertebrae appear to be devoid both of lateral out growths and of pleuro-chondrites .
The vertebrae generally are very much higher in proportion to their breadth than in er stages , the centra being nearly circular in section and the transverse processes short ( compare fig. 191 with fig. 181 , and fig. 192 with fig. 184 ) .
Stages and ( Plate 15 , fi gs .
194-197 ) .
In both these stages the vertebral column was cut into sagittal sections ; there is so little difference between them that they may be considered together .
The vertebral formula differs from that given on p. 78 in the presence of an additional caudal vertebra , the total number being 47 .
The cartilaginous centra are still annular , the notochord having undergone but little relative reduction ; its diameter is on the average more than half that of a centrum .
The composition of the atlas and axis is remarkably well seen , and corresponds precisely with BAUR'S account ( 4 ) .
The true body ( centrochondrite ) of the axis ( fig. 194 , c.chn .
) is similar to that of the succeeding vertebrae , but is joined in front by a narrow fibrous interval to the odontoid or atlantal centrochondrite ( Od .
) , which like the other vertebral bodies and the basioccipital Oc .
is perforated by the notochord .
Lying together ventrad of the notochord are two intercentra , one postoccipital ( pt .
oc.int .
) which forms the so-called body or inferior arch of the atlas , the other post-atlantal ( pt.atl.int .
) which subsequently unites with the proper body of the axis behind and with the odontoid above .
The neurochondrites of the atlas have already united with the post-occipital intercentrum but have not yet joined with one another above the spinal cord .
In all the succeeding vertebrae the neural arches are completely formed .
The notochord as seen in a median longitudinal section of the cervical region ( fig. 194 , has straight dorsal and ventral contours , but sections taken a short distance to the right or left of the median plane ( fig. 195 ) show it to be distinctly beaded , being constricted in the middle of each centrum and dilated interver .
tebrally .
In the thoracico-lumbal region there are , in addition to the vertebral constrictions , slight constrictions of the notochord in the intervertebral regions , the rudiments of the menisci having grown inwards as narrow annular ridges .
In the sacral ( fig. 196 ) and anterior caudal regions both vertebral and intervertebral constrictions are well marked , there being two notochordal ' ' beads\ldquo ; to each vertebral segment .
In the posterior caudal region ( fig. 197 ) the only constrictions on the dorsal surface are inter vertebral , there being a distinct dilatation in each centrum ; ventrally , however , there are vertebral ingrowths as well .
My Father ( 38 ) considers " " these beadings as a true historical record of development and as indicating a far greater number of vertebrae in the ancestors of Birds than in existing forms .
I think , however , that a good deal of weight should be attached to the fact that the number of segments in Apteryx undergoes no alteration from period corresponding to the fourth day of incubaticn in the Chick .
The last free and normal vertebra is the 45th ( Cd .
11 ) ; the body of the 46th ( Cd .
12 ) is fused ventrad of the notochord with that of the 47th ( Cd .
13 ) , but is free above the notochord .
The body of the 47th is a long hollow cone of cartilage , projecting some distance caudad of its arch , so that the posterior end of the neural canal is freely open above .
The uncinates Plate are quite separate from corresponding ribs , and are not chondrified .
Stage ( Plate 15 , figs. 198-203 ) .
In one specimen belonging to this stage ( A. oweni ) the vertebral column was pre pared by dissection , and the vertebrae examined separately , in the other transverse sections were made .
The atlas ( fig. 198 ) , examined as an opaque object , appears to have an annular body , there being a complete foramen instead of a notch for the odontoid .
Sections show , however , that the part lying dorsad of the odontoid foramen ( lg .
) is formed of indifferent tissue , and is the rudiment of the ligament ( figs. 175 and 176 , lg .
) found in this position in later stages .
The neural arch is still completed above by indifferent tissue .
In ttJe axis ( figs. 199 and 200 ) the three chondrites of the compound body have all concresced , the vertebra now )sisting of solid cartilage .
The pleurochondrites are very small , and their dorsal or tubercular ends have united with the neuroids , their ventral or capitular ends being still separated from the centrum by a narrow tract of indifferent tissue .
The odontoid ( Od .
) is a short nipple-like process , on the apex of which is a minute dimple ( Nch .
) , indicating the position of the greatly reduced notochord .
There is nothing of special importance about the remaining cervical , the thoracic ( fig. 201 ) , or the lumbar vertebrae , except that all those going to form the syn-sacrum AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
81 are quite distinct , concresoence of the cartilaginous centra not having yet commenced .
The sacral vertebrae ( fig. 202 ) have diapophysis and parapophysis , or rather pleuroids ( pleur .
) , quite continuous respectively with neuroid and centrum , so that transverse sections of earlier stages would be required to show whether or not the sacral ribs originate as distinct chondrites .
There are twelve caudal vertebrae , the last of which , or 48th of the whole series ( fig. 203 ) , is short and nodular .
Comparing the end of the tail in this and other stages , it would appear that , in the present case , an additional centrum is differentiated from the inous sheath of the caudal end of the notochord , the and 48th vertebrae of the embryo nc , under discussion having the same general relations as the elongated 47th of Stage ( fig. 197 ) , or of the trough-like 46th of the ripe embryo ( fig. 189 ) .
It is quite obvious that the precise mode of segmentation of this region is a matter of individual variation .
In the last three vertebrae ( fig. 203 ) , the neuroids do not meet in the middle dorsal line , the neural arch being , therefore , widely open above .
In the 45th , there is a fibrous union ; in all the rest the neural arch is completed above by cartilage .
As to their general form the vertebrae are about intermediate between the high or compressed condition of Stage , and the broad or depressed condition of the advanced embryo or adult ( compare figs. 192 , 201 , and 185 ) .
Stage One of the specimens belonging to this stage ( A. otoeni ) presents a peculiarity in the vertebral formula , which is .
Sc. : .
Th. 1 : Th. : : .
Sc. 3 : Sc. 3 : Cd .
; \mdash ; that is , there is one thoracic and one lumbo-sacral vertebra less than usual , while the number of free caudal vertebrae is nine .
In the other specimen ( A. bulleri ) the numbers re normal .
The vertebrae have practically assumed their adult characters : ossification has begun and concrescence of the cartilaginous bodies of the lumbar , lumbo-sacral , and sacral vertebrae has taken place .
In the atlas the neurosteites only have appeared , the body ( post-occipital intercentrum ) being still unossified .
In the axis there is a centrosteite in the body proper and another in the odontoid , but no ossification has yet appeared in the antero-ventral region of the body , or post-atlantal intercentrum .
The remaining cervical and the anterior thoracic vertebrae have small centrosteites and neurosteites : from the to the sacral region only centrosteites have made their appeara1lce , the arches being still unossified : the caudal region is wholly cartilaginous .
The last caudal vertebra is conical and longitudinally grooved above , its neuroids being represented by mere low ridges which do not meet above the myelon .
The vertebral ribs are ossified , but their uncinates , as well as the cervical and sacral pleuroids , are still cartilaginous .
Stage ( Plate 15 , fig. 204 ) .
This stage only differs from its predecessor in the further extension of ossification .
Fig. 204 is introduced in order to show the relations of the vertebral column , vertebral and sternal ribs , uncinates , sternum , shoulder-girdle , and pelvis in an advanced embryo .
It will be seen that in the specimen figured there is no uncinate on the cervico-thoracic rib .
Th. .
The Vertebral Column subsequent to tching .
Stage This stage differs from the newly hatched ( Stage K ) only in the further advance of ossification , the cartilage being now nearly replaced by bone .
The various osteites are , however , distinct .
The last three caudal vertebrae have open arches , and the last is scoop-shaped .
Stage The centrosteites and neurosteites of each vertebra have ankylosed , but the pleurosteites of the cervical vertebrae remain distinct , and there is no union of the separate ( bony ) vertebrae in the sacral region .
The atlas still consists of three bones , its neurosteites not having yet united with the post-occipital intercentrum : and the odontoid and post-atlantal intercentrum have not yet ankylosed with the body of the axis .
The rib of the last thoracic vertebra is only 4 mm. long , and does not project beyond the ilium : if ankylosed to its vertebra the latter would certainly be counted as the first of the lumbar series .
There are only three lumbar vertebrae , the lumbosacral are four , and the sacral three as usual , and there are twelve caud , the last of which is a short blunt bone , its small neuroids meeting above .
Stage ( Plate 15 , fig. 205 ) .
Of this stage I have only the syn-sacra of two sub-adult specimens of A. oweni .
In both the number of lumbar vertebrae is four , but there are only three lumbo-sacraL Most of the vertebrae have completely ankylosed , only the last thoracic ( Th. 8 ) , third sacral , and first caudal ( Cd .
1 ) remaining partly free .
Ossification has extended between the roots of the spinal nerves , so that each intervertebral foramen ( int.vert.for .
) is now replaced by two small apertures , one for the dorsal and one for the ventral root of the nerve .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
Adult ( Plate 15 , figs. 206 and 207 ) .
The number of cervical vertebrae appears to be quite tant , , fifteen : the 16th vertebra is also , in all specimens which have come under my notice , a cervico-thoracic , i.e. , bears free ribs which do not meet the sternum .
In every instance but one these ribs are of considerable length\mdash ; more than 30 mm.\mdash ; and reach within a short distance of the sternum ; but in a skeleton of A. in the Otago University Museum they are only 12 mm. long .
In every skeleton examined , except one , the number of thoracic vertebrae is eight , the first four of which are connected with the sternum by sternal ribs , while the last three are covered by the ilia and so form part of the syn-sacrum , only the last being ankylosed .
The single exception is in the skeleton of A. australis referred to in the preceding paragraph , in which the 25th vertebra\mdash ; corresponding to the first lumbar in other cases\mdash ; bears on the left side a short rib about mm. long , and must , therefore , be counted as a ninth thoracic .
The usual number both of lumbar and lumbo-sacral vertebrae is four , but in some instances there are four lumbar and three lumbo-sacral , in others three lumbar and four lumbo-sacral .
The sacral vertebrae proper appear to be invariably three , and there is the same number of caudal vertebrae included in the syn-sacrum ( sacro-caudal , MIVART ) .
The single exception to this is in the case of a skeleton of oneni in the Museum , in which there are four vertebrae behind the third sacral within the limits of the syn-sacrum : the first of these bears diapophyses as distinct as the ankylosed ribs of the third sacral , and may therefore be a true ( fourth ) sacral vertebra ; the fourth is only partly covered by the ilia .
The number of vertebrae caudad of the syn-sacrum is also fairly constant : in skeleton examined , except one , there are six free vertebrae , followed by a pygostyle , which is obviously formed by the union of either two or three figs. The pygostyle is a conical bone , and , in every case examined , its neural canal was completely closed in above ( fig. 207 ) , this process evidently taking place after hatohing .
In the skeleton of A. oweni referred to in the previous paragraph there are seven free cau\amp ; l vertebrae , the last of the series being apparently single , so that in this case there is no pygostyle .
The total number of vertebrae and their distribution among the various regions may be expressed by a formula as follows:\mdash ; S.Sc .
\mdash ; .
Th. 1 : or .
Sc. 4 ( 3 ) : Sc. 3 : or 8 ( 9 or 7 ) 12 ( 13 or 11 ) ( 46 or 45 ) ; that is , there are fifteen true cervical vertebrae without free ribs ; one cervico.thoracic bearing free ribs which do not meet the sternum ; usually eight , but occasionally nine or seven tboracic , of which the first five are not covered by the ilia , and the first four bear ribs meeting the stermlm ; four or sometimes three lumbar with distinct parapophyses ; four or occasionally three lumbo-sa jral without parapophyses ; three sacral with autogenous parapophyses or pleurosteites ; three or rarely four caudal covered by the ilia ; and from seven to nine free caudal , of which the last three or two are usually ankylosed to form a pygostyle .
The ilia are supported ) about fourteen vertebrae , from the sixth thoracic to the third ( rarely fourth ) caudal , which therefore constitute the syn-sacrum .
The total number of vertebrae is usually forty-seven , but may be forty-six or occasionally forty-five .
There appear to be no constant differences between the species in the vertebral formula .
I have found caudal intercentra in one skeleton only : they have the form of irregular nodules of b.one ( fig. 206 , int.cent .
) , one between the pygostyle and the preceding ( ninth ) caudal vertebra , the other between the eighth and ninth .
The general rule appears to be , as MIVART states , that uncinates are present on the cervico-thoracic and on the first six thoracic ribs , but the short cervico-thoracic ribs of the skeleton of A. australis referred to above ( p. 83 ) are devoid of those appendages , which are also absent on one side in another skeleton examined .
OWEN also states that they are absent in the specimen fioet examined by him .
The occasional absence of the cervico-thoracic uncinates , taken in connection with the vestigial condition of i.he ribs in one case , and with the fact that in the same skeleton the first thoracic rib of the right side terminates ventrad in a blunt free end and has no sternal portion , seems to point to an inclusion of anterior thoracic vertebrae in the cervical region by atrophy of their ribs .
3 .
THE STEliNUM . .
In the Adult .
( Plate 16 , figs. 208-215 .
) The descriptions of the sternum by OWEN ( 24 , p. 34 ) and by my Father ( 43 , p. \mdash ; the only two detailed accounts I have met with\mdash ; give all the essential features of the bone , and at the same time serve to show its great variability .
Tn OWEN'S specimen the posterior Iateral processes are slightly longer than the posterior median process , the anterior margin is deeply and evenly excavated , and there are two large perforations , one on each side of the middle line .
In my Father 's specimen , also stated to be A. , the posterior median is considerably longer than the posterior lateral processes , the anterior margin is sinuous and is produced in the middle line into a small projection , and there are no perforations .
Miss LINDSAY ( 19 ) gives outline figures of the sterna of A. bulleri and A. both show an even anterior emargination\mdash ; deepest in A. bulleri , no *These are erroneously stated to be one and a-half natural size : they are really less than two.thirds .
AND VELOPMENT OF fenestrae , and the posterior lateral rather longer than the posterior median process , which latter is bifid in A. oweni .
As far as I have been able to ascertain , no previous observer has called attention to any characters in the bone of specific importance .
From the small series of skeletons which have come under my notice , certain points appear to be fairly constant .
As one of these depends upon the relative length and breath of the bone , it is necessary to define these terms .
Both posterior median and posterior lateral processes are tipped , in the fresh state , with cartilage ( Plate 16 , fig. 213 ) , which is usually absent in the dried skeleton , so that the greatest length of the sternum , measured from the apex of the anterior lateral to the extremity of the posterior lateral process , is a variable quantity , depending upon the extent to which ossification has advanced .
The same objection applies to the length from the middle of the anterior border to the posterior median , since the latter varies in length with age .
A more constant dimension is , however , furnished by the length of the corpus sterni as measured from the centre of its anterior border to a point midway between the two posterior notches ( ab in figs. 208 , 212 , and 214 ) .
This I call length of corpus sterni ; by breadth of corpus sterni I understand the length of straight line drawn transversely across the sternum at about the level of the facets for the second pair of sterna ] ribs ( cd in the same figures ) .
In A. australis the length of the corpus sterni appears to be constantly more than half its breadth , and the anterior border is concave with an even curve ( figs. 208 and 209 ) .
In A. bulleri the length of the corpus sterni is\mdash ; often considerably\mdash ; less than half its breadth .
The anterior border is more deeply emarginated than in A. and presents an even curve .
The anterior lateral processes are usually blunter than in A. ( figs. 212 and 213 ) .
In A. oweni , besides the smaller size of the entire bone , the length of the body is less than half its breadth .
The emargination of the anterior border is about the same as in .
australis , but instead of being even it is slightly sinuous , each side presenting a sigmoid curvature ( figs. 214 and 215 ) .
In the supposed skeleton of A. ( p. 38 ) the length of the corpus stelni is much greater than its breadth , and the characters generally agree with those of A. australis ( fig. 210 ) .
As far as my own observations go , these characters are constant , but my Father 's figure of the sternum of A. australis ( 43 , Plate 17 , fig. 1 ) shows an uneven anterior curvature with a slight median projection , and the length , as defined , is less than half the breadth , while in Miss LINDSAY'S figure of A. oweni there is no trace of the sinuosity of the anterior border , and the length is a little more than half the breadth .
* * I am disposed to think that skeletons of Apteryx often bear wrong specific names .
There ought Trifling as these characters are , and inconstant as they may probably prove to be I think them worth giving as showing that the three or four species of Apteryx are tending to differentiation in their skeletons as well as in their external characters .
One point not yet referred to appears to be of considerable interest .
As a general rule the costal borders of the bone are thick and strong , the thickening extending to a greater or less extent on to the anterior border , but the rest of the bone being thin and translucent .
But in two specimens of A. bulleri ( fig. 213 ) , in the doubtful A. haastii ( fig. 210 ) , and in the skeleton in the Wellington Museum marked A. , but probably referable to A. bulleri ( fig. 2 ] 1 ) , the corpus sterni presents a distinct median longitudinal thickening along its anterior half , the result bein the production of a low ridge nearly as well marked as the vestigial keel of Stringops .
In a skeleton of A. in the Canterbury Museum ( fig. 209 ) , there is a very poorly developed ridge , which projects on the inner or dorsal surface of the bone instead of on the ventral or outer surface , as in all other cases .
On the hypothesis that the Ratitae are descended from birds which possessed the power of flight , the occasional occurrence by reversion of a vestigial keel is precisely what might be expected .
The absence of a special osteite ( lophosteon ) for the keel hardly appears to be of such fundamental importance as it is sometimes assumed to be .
I should rather take the presence or absence of such a bone as a fact of the same rank as the presence or absence of a distinct centre of ossification in the spines of the thoracic vertebrae of mammals .
But this is a point upon which the development of the sternum in Stringops should throw lighb .
In one skeleton of A. australis there is an exception to the usual rule that four sternal ribs are articulated to the sternum ; on the left side the fifth thoracic rib is attached by a true joint , the articular cavity being on the proximal end of the posterior lateral process . .
Development of the Sternum .
Stage ( Plate 16 , fig. In this the earliest stage in which the sternum was observed , owing to the damaged condition of Stage , it consists of paired cartilaginous plates , there being no indication of the metasternum or posterior median portion .
Owing to the way in which the ventral body-wall was ruptured ( Plate 3 , fig. 6 ) the moieties of the sternum had a position nearly parallel to the median plane of the body , and are , therefore , well seen in sagittal sections .
Each ( fig. 216 , St. ) is roughly triangular , with a thickened anterior margin , to which the coracoid ( Cor. ) is articulated , and an extremely thin mesio-ventral border .
The anterior edge is sinuous .
never , of course , to be any mistake about A. oweni , but the other two common species are very easily mistaken for one another .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
The position of the sternum is remarkable ; its autero-posterior axis is as nearly as possible parallel with that of the vertebral column , as in a Carinate Bird , instead of being nearly at right angles to it , as in the adult and advanced embryo ( cf. figs. 204 and216 ) .
There are onIy three ribs attached to the costal border , and the third of these appears to be united by indifferent tissue .
The cervico-thoracic rib ( Cv .
Th. Rb .
) is separated by a wide interval from the sternum .
There is thus a striking difference from many of the embryos investigated by Miss LINDSAY ( 19 ) , in which the number of ribs attached to the sternum is greater in the embryo than in the adult .
The joints between the vertebral and sternal ribs , and between the first two sternal ribs and the sternum , have already appeared .
They are not shown in Miss LlNDSAY'S figures of even considerably later stages , but this is probably due to that observer not having corrected the results of her dissectionae by the subsequent examination of thin sections .
Stage ( Plate 16 , fig. 217 ) .
The two halves are still separated by a considerable interval , and there is no indication of the metasternal region .
The coracoid grooves are very obvious in sections , and the sternum has extended caudad slightly beyond the ventral end of the fourth thoracic rib ( J%.Rb .
4 ) .
From a dissection of the specimen , it appeared that this rib was attached to the sternum , but sections show that it is really separated by a short but perfectly distinct interval .
Comparing this stage with the last , it appears certain that in Apteryx each half of the sternum is not formed by the antero-posterior union of the whole of the sternal ribs .
In Stage only two ribs are united by joints , and a third is loosely attached indifferent tissue at the posterior boundary of the sternum .
In Stage the sternum has apparently grown backwards to the level of the fourth thoracic rib , which has extended mesiad to meet it .
As to position , the posterior end of the sternum is now at a considerably lower level than its anterior end , so that the angle between the sternal axis and the vertebral column approa a right angle .
Stage ( Plate 16 , figs. 218 and 219 ) .
The two halves of the sternum have now concresced in the middle line from about the level of the first sternal rib to that of the fourth .
The posterior lateral processes ( post.lat.pr .
) have nearly attained their full length , but there is no trace of the posterior median process .
A transverse section shows the corpus sterni to be sJightly concave ventrad and somewhat thickened in the middle live , but devoid of trace of a keel .
and ( Plate 15 , fig. 204 , and Plate 16 , figs. 220 and 221 ) .
The two halves of the sternum are united , and the adult form is attained by the development of a well-marked posterior median process .
There is the normal number ( four ) of sternal ribs articulated to the costal border , except in the specimen of A. oweni belonging to Stage ( fig. 221 ) , in which the fourth rib of the right side does not reach the sternum .
On the other hand , in one specimen of Sbage I ( fig. 204 ) the end of the fifth thoracic rib approaches within half a millimetre of the sternum ( cf. p. 86 ) .
Stage ( Plate 16 , fig. 222 In one of the specimens belonging to this stage\mdash ; a ripe embryo of A. bulleri\mdash ; the sternum is still unossified , but in both the others\mdash ; a ripe embryo and a newly-hatched chick of A. \mdash ; the osteites of the costal sternum ( pleurostea ) have appeared ( Pl.ost .
) .
In one of these specimens the posterior median process is double , in the other it is perforated by an oval foramen ( fig. 222 , would seem to indicate a paired origin of the metasternum .
In neither of the specimens of A. australis are the adult proportions attained , the length of the corpus sterni being slightly less than half its breadth , as in A. As will be seen by a comparison of figs. 222 and 208 , of 220 and 212 , and of 221 and 214 , the proportional length increases considerably between late embryonic and adult life .
Stage ( Plate 16 , fig. 223 ) .
The single specimen belonging to this stage has the pleurostea increased in extent , and is remarkable for the presence of three thin places ( indicated by shading ) in the body , one median and two paired , and evidently indicating recent extensions of cartil , .
It looks very much as if the increase in proportional length were due to a filling up of the posterior notches .
The posterior median process is perforated by a small foramen ( fo .
) .
The adult proportions are attained , the length of the corpus sterni being now considerably more than half its Stage ( Plate 16 , fig. 224 ) .
The pleurostea ( Pl.ost .
) have nearly met in the middle line , and have extended into the anterior lateral ( ant.lat.pr .
) , so that only the three posterior processes are unossified .
The anterior border shows no trace of the sinuous curve found in the adult of this species ( A. oweni ) .
In all later stages ossification is complete .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
89 4 .
THE .
In the Adult .
( Plate 16 , figs. 225-232 .
) The shoulder-girdle , like the sternum , is subject to great individual variation , and for purposes of comparison I have found it necessary to sketch it from the same points of view in all the adult specimens fignred .
In the front views ( A in figs. 225-232 ) the bone was placed with the distal end of the scapula and the whole sternal ( epicoracoid ) border of the coracoid resting on the table , and its out , line traced on a sheet of glass placed immediately above it and parallel to the table .
In the lateral or external views ( in the same figures ) it was placed so that the glenoid fossa exactly faced the observer .
The outline was taken on glass as before .
Tn this way the relative dimensions of the various parts are shown from a fixed point of view .
Both ] and coracoid are considerably foreshortened in the front views owing to the curvature of the entire bone , but their correct length is given in the side views .
As a general rule , the scapula is about one and a-half times the length of the coracoid ( Cor. ) , but in one specimen of A. ustralis ( fig. 227 ) , it is hardly more than one and a-quarter times as long , and in a specimen of A. , it is more than twice as long .
The curve of the scapula also varies considerably .
But it is in the coracoid that the most interesting variations occur .
As a rule ( figs. 230-232 , A ) , it is a flattened bone with a nearly straight mesial and concave lateral border , but the mesial border is often ( figs. 227 and 228 , A ) somewhat excavated , and in three instances ( figs. 225 , 226 , and 229 , A ) the excavation takes the form of a regular semicircular notch which is converted into a foramen ( cor .
) ) a ligament ( pr.cor.lig .
) .
The mere observation of the parts in the adult is enough to show what is clearly proved by their development ( infra , pp. 91 and 92 ) , that the ligament is the degraded procoracoid , and that the foramen or notch is the coracoid fenestra which is so characteristic a feature in the shoulder-girdle of the Ostrich .
In cases where there is no such fenestra , the bone in the corresponding position is always thin and transparent ( indicated by shading in figs. 227 , 230 , 231 , and 232 , A ) , the space being evidently filled up by the extension mesiad of the coracoid with the fibrous tissue stretched across it .
The small aperture , marked Sup.cor.for .
, and considered by both OWEN ( 24 , p. 34 ) , and my Father ( 43 , Plate 17 , fig. 1 ) , as the coracoid fenestra , is evidently homologous with the supra-coracoid foramen at the base of the procoracoid process in many Birds , and particularly well-marked in , Ocydromus , \amp ; c. In the latae , the furcula is attached by ligament to three processes of the shoulder-girdle\mdash ; the acromion ( mesoscapula , W. K. PARKER ) on the inner or preaxial border of the proximal end of the scapula , the procoracoid process ( mesocoracoid process , W. K. PARKER ) on the mesial or preaxial border of the coracoid at its dorsal end , and the acrocoracoid of RBR1NGER ( clavicular process , of the coracoid , proximal precoracoid , W. K. PARKER ) a large process from the anterior surface of the dorsal end of the coracoid towards its post-axial border .
Thus , the foramen triosseum is bounded mesiad by the furcula , laterad by the acrocoracoid , and caudad by the acromion and procoracoid process ; and the acrocoracoid is situated immediately mesiad of the tendon of the subclavius as it passes through the foramen triosseum to reach the dorsal aspect of the humerus .
In Apteryx , a fair proportion of the specimens examined have more or less wellmarked tuberosities in the precise position of all the three processes referred to .
At the ventral end of the scapula , close to its preaxial border , and immediately above the position of the obliberated coraco-scapular synchondrosis is an acromial tuberosity very obvious in figs. 226 , 228 , and 230 ; at the dorsal end of the coracoid close to its border a less obvious , but undoubted procoracoid tuberosity ( pr.cor.t .
) is shown in fig. 230 ; and in every specimen the acrocoracoid tuberosity or spina coracoidea is a prominent feature .
Moreover , the tendon of the subclavius ( Plate 19 , fig. 293 , subcl .
) passes immediately mesiad of the last-named elevation , precisely as in Carinatae .
The coraco-scapular angle varies from to .
It is largest in the skeleton in the Wellington Museum marked A. maxima ( probably A. bulleri , fig. it is in one specimen of A. fig. and in the supposed A. ; between and in another specimen of A. australis ( fig. 228 ) , in one of A. bulleri ( fig. 229 ) , and in one of A. oweni ( fig. 231 ) ; and in two specimens of A. bulleri ( fig. 230 ) and one of A. oweni ( fig. 232 ) .
There is , therefore , no constancy in this respect in the various species .
The fact that the angle is as small as 12 in Apteryx , while it rises to in Notornis and to in Ocydromus and Diomedea ( 26 , p. 250 ) quite bears out statement that as a character distinguishin the Ratitae from the Carinatae , it is of considerably less importance than the relative size in the two groups of the acrocoracoid .
BR1NGER gives the range of variation in the coraco-scapular angle as 13 to 16 for Ratitae , and to for Carinatae , giving a difference of between the two groups ; the foregoing observations reduce the difference to .
Development of the Stage ( Plate 16 , fig. 216 , and Plate 17 , fig. 233 ) .
The absence of any of the shoulder-girdle earlier than this is much to be regretted , as I have been unable to ascertain whether there are originally formed separate chondrites for the coracoid , procoracoid , and scapula , as described by Miss LINDSAY ( 19 ) .
In the present stage the scapulo-coracoid consists of a solid bar of cartilage of much the same shape as the adult bone , but without any fenestrae or other signs to indicate the separation of coracoid and procoracoid .
In fig. 238 , taken AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
from the cartilage after removal from the body , the scapula appears to be nearly in the same straight line as the coracoid , but in fig. 216 , accurately reconstructed from sagittal sections , it is seen to be strongly curved , so that while the coraco-scapular angle , usually taken , i.e. , considering the ventral end of the scapula only , is about , it is only about if the general direction of the scapula is taken by a line joining its base and apex .
Fig. 216 certainly suggests the straightening of the shoulder-girdle by its release from the backward pull of the shoulder muscles .
Another striking fact is that the long axis of the coracoid ( fig. 216 , Cor. ) is inclined from its sternal articulation forwards , so as to make an acute angle with the vertebral column , instead of a right angle as in later stages ( cf. fig. 204 , Cor In other words , the coraco-vertebral angle is about , instead of , and thus furnishes an important point of agreement with the Carinatae .
Stages ( Plate 17 , figs. 234-236 ) .
In these stages the shoulder-girdle has undergone very little advance except in size and in the increased development of the acrocoracoid tuberosity , which is now a ] -marked process considerably larger proportionally than in the adult .
Its dimensions well seen in fig. 236 , which shows two obliquely transverse sections through the junction of the scapula and coracoid in Stage G. Both pass through the acrocoracoid acr .
, and , which is hree sections caudad of also passes through the supracoracoid foramen ( sup.cor.for .
) .
The coraco-vertebral angle is still acute , as shown by the fact that obliquely transverse sections of it were obtained by cutting an embryo Stage at right angles to the long axis of the trunk , but the inclination is considerably ] than in the preceding stage , amounting to about in Stage F. ( Plate 17 , figs. 237 and 238 ) .
The two specimens belonging to this stage show a very important step in the development of the shoulder-girdle .
In the younger of the two ( A. oweni , fig. 237 ) the scapula is ossified , but the coracoid has undergone no alteration , bein still a solid cartilage with a very prominent acrocoracoid tuberosity .
In the other embryo ( A. bulleri , fig. 238 ) the scapula is similarly ossified , but the coracoid has undergone a great change , a portion of the cartilage having been absorbed so as to produce a large coracoid fenestra ( cor.fen .
) separating a narrow preaxial ( mesial ) procoracoid bar from a broad postaxial ( lateral ) portion , the coracoid proper ( Cor in which an ossification has appeared .
In Apteryx , therefore , the coracoid and procoracoid clearly result from a process of fenestration in an originally single cartilage .
Whether this fenestration is a secondary process and the two elements arise in the first instance as distinct chondrites , my material has not allowed me to ; but Miss LINDSAY'S researches ( 19 , p. 692 ) show that such a mode of origin is probable .
The PROFESSOR .
T. J. PARKER ON THE fOMY resemblance of the shoulder-girdle shown in fig. 238 to that of the Ostrich is very striking .
Stages I and ( Plate 17 , figs. 239 and 240 ) .
hese stages are also interesting since they show the gradual degradation of the cartilaginous procoracoid .
In Stage I ( fig. 239 ) the procoracoid is a narrow cartilaginous bar continuous above with the coracoid , but free below , and connected by ligament with the epicoracoid region .
In Stage ( fig. 240 ) the process has gone still further , and the procoracoid is almost entirely converted into ligament ( pr.cor.lig .
) , only a small pointed process being left to indicate its dorsal end .
Stage precisely resembles , and in the adult characters are assumed .
5 .
THE FORE-LIMB . .
In the Adult .
( Plate 17 , figs. 241-253 .
) With regard to the humerus , radius , and ulna , I have nothing to add to OWEN'S description , but his account of the manus is imperfect and somewhat obscure .
He say " " there is a minute carpal bone , two metacarpals , and a single phalanx but the plate shows the manus to consist of three bones in a single longitudinal series .
The middle and distal of these would naturally be considered as phalanges , so that there is only the proximal one to represent the carpal and the two metacarpals .
The figure is on such a small scale that it is impossible to place much reliance upon it , but it has the appearance of representing a normal wing of A. australis , while the description , at least as regards the separate carpal , applies rather to A. oweni ( infra ) .
My Father ( 41 , Plate 65 , fig. 5 ) figures a manus which he calls A. oweni , but which is , in all probability , A. australis .
In an earlier paper ( 42 , p. 127 ) he figures a specimen in which a small radial carpal is shown , but is not referred to ; the species in this case is not mentioned .
As far as my own observations go , the essential structure of the manus is quite constant in A. and in A. oweni , judging from four adult specimens of each ; while in A. bulleri the variations are so great that the examination of five specimens is quite insufficient to determine their ran ge .
Besides these , I have examined the wing of one of the type specimens of A. haastii in the Canterbury Museum , as well as that of the supposed A. haastii from Puysegur Point ( p. 38 ) , and of the skeleton called maxima ( .
bulleri ?
) in the Wellington Museum .
In A. australis ( fig. 241 ) the bones of the forearm are succeeded by a somewhat irregular flattened bone , the carpo-metacarpus ( Cp .
Mtcp .
) .
It presents on the preaxial of its proximal border a small facet for the radius , and a AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
and very oblique surface for the ulna .
Distad it narrows considerably , and gives attachment to I , he proximal phalanx .
Postaxiad , it is usually produced into a tolerably well-marked projection , which represents the third metacarpal ; a similar , but smaller projection , sometimes springing from the preaxial border , may represent the first metacarpal , but is possibly a mere process of the second .
The development of this bone shows that it is composed of both proximal and distal carpals , and of the second and third , and possibly also the first , metacarpals .
There are sometimes two and sometimes three phalanges to the single ( second ) digit ( Phal .
2 ' , Phal .
2 ; in the latter case the second or middle phalanx is always small , and , as will be seen , it appears later than the others .
It is evidently obsolescent .
The presence of three phalanges to the index is a generalised character , the normal number in birds being two , but as , according to WIEDERSHEIM , three families of Carinatae possess the maximum number , no great stress need be laid upon the occasional presence of the second in Apteryx , except as showing which of the three has usually atrophied .
In A. oweni there seems to be inyariably a distinct radiale figs. in the form of a small rounded nodule of bone interca]ated between the radius and the carpometacarpus .
In two of the specimens examined , the third metacarpal ( fig. 242 , Mtcp .
3 ) is ankylosed along its whole length to the second ( Mtcp .
2 ) as in australis , but in the third it is free distad ( fig. 243 ) , and in the fourth\mdash ; a sub-adult speci1nen\mdash ; united only by membrane ( fig. 244 ) .
The phalanges of the second digit may be three or two .
In A. haastii the single wing examined ( fig. 250 ) has two free carpals , a radiale and an ulnare ( ul .
) , and all three phalanges are present .
In the skeleton , donbtfu ] lie referred to A. haastii , a radiale is present in the left manus ( fig. 251 ) but absent in the right ( fig. 252 ) ; there are also three phalanges on the left , and two on the right side .
In A. bulleri the variations in the structure of the carpo-metacarpal region striking .
In two instances ( fig. 246 ) there is a single carpo-metacarpus exactly resembling that of A. .
In a third ( fig. 245 ) the resemblance is equally close to A. oweni , there being a carpo-metacarpus and a radiale .
In the fourth ( fig 247 ) the radius and ulna on the left side articulate with a transversely elongated bone ( ra.dist .
) which apparently represents both the radiale and the distal carpals , and to the distal surface of which free second and third metacarpals attached .
It is worth noticing that this is probably the only recorded example of a fully adult recent bird with free metacarpals .
On the right side of the same skeleton ( fig. 248 ) the second metacarpal appears to have ankylosed with the carpals , forming an irregular rod-shaped carpo-metacarpus , while the third metacarpal is free .
In the fifth and last specimen\mdash ; removed like several others from a skin\mdash ; there is ( fig. 249 ) a ] radiale , a sigmoid bone which apparently represents the distal carpals and the second metacarpal , and a short free third metacarpal .
As far as I can make out there is no doubt about the species in any of the five cases .
The Wellington specimen , marked A. , agrees with the left side of the fourth example of A. bulleri mentioned above ( fig 247 ) .
There a single transversely longated carpal ( fig 253 ) , not yet ossified postaxiad , a large second metacarpal , or possibly carpo-metacarpal .
and a small third metacarpal .
Thus the characters both of the sternum and of the manus seem to that this specimen referable to A. bullcri .
It is worth mentioning that while the manus is usually permanently flexed postaxiad on the forearm at an angle of about ( figs. 241 , 245 , \amp ; c the two are somebimes nearly or quite in the straight line(figs .
243and250 ) . .
Development of the Fore-Lomb .
Stage E. ( Plate 17 , figs. 254 and 255 .
) The external characters of the limb at this stage have been described ( p. 32 ) .
The humerus ( Hue .
) , radius , and ulna ( Ul .
) are well chondrified .
The carpus is represented by a thickened plate of mesoblast , which in its external ( dorsal ) region ( fig. 255 ) shows no division into separate carpals , but towards the middle of its thickness ( fig. 254 ) presents four fairly well-marked patches of prochondral tissue , the rudinnents of the carpals .
Of these , one is immediately distad of the radius , and is evidently the radiale ; the other three lie proximad of the three metacarpals , and be considered as the ( dist. 1 ) , second ( dist. 2 ) , and third ( dist. 3 ) distalia .
The three preaxial digits are quite distinct .
The pollex consists only of a chondrified metacarpal ( Mtcp .
1 ) , the index of a metacarpal ( Mtcp .
2 ) and proximal phalanx of cartilage , and of a distal phalanx ( Phal .
2 of prochondral tissue ; the third of a chondrified metacarpal ( Mtcp .
3 ) and a single phalanx of prochondral tissue .
Stage ( Plate 17 , fig. 256 ) .
There is still no trace of chondrification in the carpal mesoblast , and only two patches of prochondral tissue are distinguishable , one between the radius and the first metacarpal , the other ( dist. 2 ) immediately proximad of the second metacarpal .
I take the first of these to be the radiale , the other the second distale .
The first ( Mtcp .
1 ) and third ( Mtcp .
3 ) metacarpals have not increased in size since the previous stage , but the second ( Mtcp .
2 ) is half as long again .
The distal phalanx of the second digit is still unchondrified , and there is no trace of a second phalanx , present in the embryo Goose , according to BAUR , in third digit .
Stage ( Plate figs. 257-260 ) .
The carpals have begun to chondrify , but are still very indistinct , the several AND VELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
95 chondrites insensibly into the common carpal mesoblast .
In the specimen of A. australis belonging to this stage , a section taken near the dorsal ( outer ) aspect of the carpus ( fig. 258 ) shows a distinct radiale ( ra .
) interposed between the end of the radius ( Ra .
) and a large distale ( dist. ) .
Further ventrad fig. the radiale is no longer seen , the radius is almost in contact with the distale , and a small chondrite ( ul .
) , probably an ulnare , is seen postaxiad of the third metacarpal .
Fig. 257 shows my interpretation of these sections .
The metacarpal ( figs. 257 and 259 , Mtcp .
1 ) is represented only by a small rounded patch of cells , and seems therefore to have undergone complete histological degeneration .
The second digit has two chondrified phalanges , and its metacarpal ( Mtcp .
2 ) has partly united with the distale .
The third consists only of a small metacarpal ( Mtcp .
3 ) .
In the specimen of A. oweni belonging to this stage fig. 260 ) the skeleton of the wing was dissected out and afterwards cut into serial sections in order to settle some doubtful points .
It is quite possible that the carpus may have been in.jured in dissection .
There is a large chondrite ( cp .
) imperfectly chondrified distad , and giving attachment on the one hand to the radius and ulna , and on the other to the first and second metacarpals .
It apparently replesents the first and second distalia ; whether it includes also the radiale or whether the latter was lost in preparation is uncertain .
Immediately postaxiad of it is an unchondrified but distinct patch of mesoblast ( dist. 3 ) , with which the third metacarpal is connected .
It is probably the third distale .
Postaxiad of this again , and passing obliquely proximad towards the ulna is a rod-shaped chondrite which appears to be an ulnare .
The first metacarpal ( Jltcp .
1 ) is well developed in this specimen , and ossification has begun in the shafts of the humerus , radius , and ulna ( Ul .
) .
Stage ( Plate 17 , figs. 261 and 262 ) .
The humerus , radius , and ulna have their shafts ossified , but the manus is still entirely cartilaginous , and its structure differs considerably in the two specimens belonging to the stage .
In A. oweni ( fig. 261 ) there is a large radiale ( ra .
) , and the distalia have united into a single transversely-.elongated cartilage ( dist. ) which articulates proximad with the radiale and the ulna , and distad with the second and third metacarpals .
It is obvious that by subsequent concrescence of this cartilage with the metacarpals the carpo-metacarpus of the adult is formed .
The third metacarpal ( lVItcp .
3 ) is about the same length as the second , and its distal end is turned slightly postaxiad .
Both metacarpals are in process of fusion with the distale .
There is no trace of a first metacarpal .
The second digit bears two phalanges , of which the distal one is very small .
There are synovial capsules between the radius and radiale , the ulna and distale , the radiale anddistale , aswellasbetweenthemetacarpalandPROFESSORTJPARKERONTHEANATOMY proximal phalanx of the second digit .
In A. bulleri ( fig. 262 ) there is a large cartilaginous preaxial carpal articulating proximad with both radius and ulna , and distad with both second and third metacarpals .
The ulna and the second metacarpal project postaxiad of it , and between them is intercalated a smaH nodular cartilage ( ul .
) .
Comparison with other stages leads me to consider the large preaxial carpal as a radio-distale , the small nodule ( ul .
) as an ulnare .
The third metacarpal is\mdash ; quite exceptionally\mdash ; longer than the second and of equal diameter .
second digit bears wo phalanges , the distal of which has taken on the usual characters of an ungual phalanx .
Stage ( Plate 17 , figs. 263 and 264 ) .
The two specimens , like those of the previous stage , show very considerable differences .
In ( fig. 264 ) there is a large radiale and a small trigonal ulnare ( ul .
) .
Articulating with these , and partly also with the ulna , is a large flat distale ( dist. 2 ) , the postaxial end of which ( dist. 3 ) is shown by sections to be a separate chondrite , its plane of junction with the larger cartilage being marked by a layer of small cells .
The second metacarpal is in contact mainly with the larger cartilage , the third with the smaller ; they may , therefore , be safely considered as the second and third distalia .
The second and third metacarpals have undergone almost complete concrescence wit'b the distalia , the junction between them marked only by a layer of closeset cells .
The second metacarpal ( Mtcp .
2 ) is slightly longer and considerably wider than the third , and its shafb is ossified ; the third ( Mtcp .
3 ) is slender , pointed distad , and separated by a space from the second , except at its proximal end where concrescence has begun .
The second digit three phalanges , of which the first has begun to ossify in the middle of its shaft , and the third at its distal end ; the second ( Phal .
2 is considerably smaller than he others , and is unossified .
As in the previous stage , there is a distinct synovial capsule between the radiale and the distale , as well as between the radius and ulna respectively , and the carpus .
The specimen of A. bulleri belonging to this stage ( fig. 263 ) presents certain peculiarities .
The carpus consists of a distinct radiale and of a large distale ( dist. ) nearly fused with the second metacarpal .
The third metacarpal is free , and slightly smaller than the second .
The preaxial border of the second metacarpal is produced into a blunt process ( Mtcp .
1 ) , which is shown by sections to be a distinct chondrite ; it can hardly be anything else than the first metacarpal which has thus , in this instance , fused with the second , instead of degenerating .
AND DEVELOPMENT APTERYX .
97 There are only two phalanges to the second digit , the second being absent .
The third ( Phal .
2 has its tip ossified , and gives off from its proximal end a rod-like recurrent process ( Phal .
3 ) , which appears to be a distinct chondrite ; it is probably the distal phalanx of the third digit , which has not , as usual , atrophied at an early stage .
Stage ( Plate 18 , figs. 265-268 ) .
In this case also there is a striking difference between the two specimens examined .
In A. ( figs. 265 and 266 ) the carpo-metacarpus is almost exactly intermediate between the condition found in the previous stage and in the adult .
The radiale and ulnare ( ul .
) have begun to concresce with the distalia ( dist. ) , the synovial space existing between them in Stages and I being nearly filled up by small cells , which shade into the cartilage on either side .
Towards the ventral ( palmar ) aspect of the carpus the radiale and ulnare have united .
The distalia ( dist. ) have completely fused with the metacarpals .
The diaphysis of the second metacarpal has extended so that the shaft of the bone is now well ossified , and the third metacarpal ( Mtcp .
3 ) has united with it , forming a narrow cartilaginous ridge postaxiad of the bone .
In the left manus there is a small cartilaginous projection ( fig. 265 , Mtcp .
1 ) on the preaxial side of the carpo-metacarpus , probably representing the first metacarpal .
In A. bulleri ( figs. 267 and 268 ) the condition of the parts approaches most nearly to what was found in the same species in Stage ( fig. 262 ) .
There is a large distale separated by a very thin layer of fibrous tissue from the second metacarpal , with which it is beginning to unite .
There is no ulnare , but its place is occupied by a well-defined patch of fibrous tissue .
The second and third metacarpals are sepal.ate , and each has a distinct diaphysial ossification .
Stage ( Plate 18 , figs. 269-271 ) .
In a specimen of A. a few weeks old the radiale and ulnare ( fig. 270 , have united with one another , and their concrescence with { he distalia ( dist. ) is nearly complete .
The ossification of the second metacarpal has extended both into the distalia and into the third metacarpal .
Hence from an external inspection ( fig. 269 ) the manus presents the simple carpo-metacarpus characteristic of the species .
In the wing of a young A. oweni removed from a skin , and apparently referable to this stage ( fig. 271 ) , there is a cartilaginous , and the first and third metacarpals are represented by distinct osteites .
The first ( Mtcp .
1 ) is a rounded nodule lying preaxiad of the proximal end of second metacarpal ( Mtpc .
2 ) ; the third ( Mtcp .
3 ) is a rod of bone tipped with cartilage lying close alongside its post axial border .
( Plate 18 , figs. 272 and 273 ) .
The specimen of A. oweni belonging to this stage ( fig. 273 ) is the only instance I have met with of any important deviation from the normal type of the speciea Distad of the radius there is , instead of the ordinary nodular radiale , a semilunar bone , which extends distad a short distance along the preaxial border of the carpo-metacarpus , and seems to consist of radiale plus first metacarpal .
The third metacarpal ( Mtcp .
3 ) is free , and is tipped with cartilage .
In a wing removed from a young stuffed specimen of A. ustralis , which may be referred to this stage ( fig. 272 ) , there is a distinct osteite ( ul .
) at.the postaxial extremity of the cartilaginous proximal end of the carpo-metacarpus .
It is obviously an ulnare .
6 .
THE GIRDLE . .
In the Adult .
I have nothing to add to the descriptions of OWEN ( 24 ) and of MIVART ( 21 ) except to mention that the curvature of the ischium appears to be slightly but constantly greater in A. oweni and A. bulleri than in A. australis , and to call attention to a statement of OWEN'S which seems to imply the presence of a perfectly new and unique element in the vertebrate skeleton .
He says , " " A distinct epiphysial piece of bone , of a compressed and triangular form , is wedged in between the posterior extremity of the ilia and the first three caudal vertebrae The bone in.question is nothing but the ankylosed neural spines of the first three caudal vertebrae .
In one of my specimens it is separated by a well-defined groove from the corresponding centra , and shows no distinction into its constituent parts ; it is , however , united both with the centra below and with the ilia above . .
Development of the Pelvis .
( Plate 18 , fig. 274 , and Plate 15 , fig. 193 ) .
The pelvic girdle , in this stage , corresponds pretty nearly with Miss JOHNSON'S fig. 7 ( 18 , Plate 27 ) .
The pre-iJium ( Pr .
Ilm .
) is short , the post-ilium ( Pt. Ilm .
) longer and strongly curved ventrad , the pubis ( Pub .
) slender and nearly straight , the ischium ( Isch .
) broad and expanded distad .
The ctineal process ( pect.pr .
) is slightly below the level of the acetabulum , springing obviously from the pubis and not from the ilium , and both pubis and ischium are nearly at right angles to the long axis of the body , as shown by the fact that a vertical section through the acetabulum takes in nearly the whole length of the ischium ( Plate 15 , fig. 193 ) .
ND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
99 The ischium and pubis are not continuous , as in Miss JOHNSON'S figures , but are separated by a layer of indifferent tissue extending downwards from the acetabulum .
Stage ( Plate 18 , fig. 275 ) .
The more advanced condition of the pre- than of the post-ilium is very obvious .
The post-ilium ( Pt. Ilm .
) has attained its adult proportions , i.e. , is of about the same length as the ischium and pubis ; it is also curved downwards , as in the adult , and has altogether a finished appearance .
The pre-ilium , on the other hand , is very thin , ends in an irregular border , and falls far short of its ultimate dimensions .
These facts certainly lend support to the view that it is the post-ilium of Birds which answers to the ilium of Reptiles , and that the pre-ilium is a secondary structure .
The distinctness of the pubis and ischium is well seen both in a dissection and in sections ; there is a well-defined tract of fibrous tissue passing vertically downwards from the acetabulum , and separating their proximal ends from one anothel .
Stage Plate .
The most marked change is the ward extension of the pre-ilium ( Pr .
llm which has attained its ultimate length , although its dorsal region is still imperfect .
The pubis and ischium are now distinctly inclined backwards .
Stage ( Plate 18 , fig. 277 ) .
The adult form is assumed .
the pre-ilium being perfectly formed , and the pubis and ischium having rotated backwards to their final position .
There is no appearance of ossification .
Stages ( Plate 15 , fig. 204 , and Plate 18 , fig. 278 ) .
The three divisions of the pelvis are now separately ossified .
In , the anterior and posterior borders of the iiium are still cartilaginous , and the pubic osteite is a rodshaped bone , not more than half the length of the cartilage , and situated at its proximal end .
In I and ( fig. 204 ) ossification has extended farthel , and in ( fig. 278 ) the only cartilaginous parts are the distal ends of the pubis and ischium , the antitrochanter ( Ant. Trch and the pectineal process ( pect.pr .
) , together with a narrow tract between the pubis and pre-ilium .
Stages ( Plate 18 , fig. 279 ) .
In Stage , the ossifications have extended into and obliterated the connecting cartilages , but have not yet ankylosed .
In Stage ( fig. 279 ) the pectineal process ( pect.pr .
is seen to be ossified equally by the ilium and pubis .
This is also the case the Ostrich , according to HATCHETT JACKSON ( 48 , p. 65 ) .
In Stage , complete ankylosis has taken place .
7 .
THE .
In the Adult .
( Plate 18 , fig. 292 .
) The hind-limb of Apteryx is so typically avian , and has been so thoroughly described by OWEN , that lit , the need be said about it here .
It is necessary , however , to supplement his account in one particular .
OWEN states ( 24 , p. 37 ) that " " there is a small cuneiform tarsal wedged into the outer and back part of the ankle-joint.\ldquo ; In his 'Anatomy of Vertebrata ' ( vol. 2 , p. 83 ) , the same bone is called a " " calcaneal sesamoid and is said to exist also in several Rasores .
It occurs as an ossification in the thickness of the postaxial moiety of the mesotarsal articular pad and has therefore all the appearance of a sesamoid bone .
Its development shows , however , that it is formed by the ossification of a distinct chondrite which has the relations of a postaxial centrale .
At the time my Preliminary Note ( 28 ) was written I was not aware that it had been figured by MORSE , and figured and described by my Father .
It is about 5 mm. in the adult A. oweni and 7 mm. lon in the larger species .
I also find in the supposed skeleton of A. haastii and in the right leg of one skeleton of A. australis a similar but much smaller bone ( fig. 292 , cent. 1 ) , about 4 mm. in diameter , imbedded in the lesser or preaxial moiety of the mesotarsal pad .
This is also formed by ossification of a distinct chondrite , which however does not appear , as far as my observations go , until after hatching .
It may be looked upon as the first or preaxial centrale .
I have not found it in A. oweni . .
Development of the Hind-Limb ( Plate 18 , figs. 280-282 ) .
The femur ( Fe .
) is very slightly shorter than the crus , and the tibia ( Tib .
) and bone in question occurs also in Dinornis , and thus furnishes an additional point of resemblance between that genus and Apteryx .
It is apparently not mentioned by OWEN in his memoirs on the Moa , but was described and figured , in 1874 , by oUGHTREY ( , in the remarkably perfect , and , indeed , unique feet of D. ingens , now in the Otago University Museum .
It is also present on both sides in a very fine " " individual\ldquo ; skeleton of D. robustus , in the same collection .
oUGIITREY describes the ligamentous attachments of the bone , which , following OWEN , he calls a " " calcaneo-sesamoid.\ldquo ; BULLER , describes and figures it as an " " astragalus-like bone in a foot of D. elephantopus , in the Cambridge Museum , and mentions its occurrence in the well-known skeleton of D. robustus , in the York Museum ; he refers to COUGHTREY'S paper , but has overlooked the fact that the bone is described there , stating that it has not bsen noticed in Dinorni There is another point in the strucbure of the foot of Dinornis which is often wrongly stated in authoritative publications .
VON HAAST erroneously concluded that the Dinornithidae as restricted by him , differed from the Palapterygidae in the absence of a hallux , but as HUTTON showed in 1876 ( 15 ) , and as is abundantly proved by the collections in the Otago University Museam , this is not the case , many individual feot of Dinornithidae having been found with a well-developed balluc AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
fibula ( Fib .
) are equal in length and sub-equal in diameter .
The tarsus consists of the three chondrites usual in emblyo Birds , a large tibiale ( tib .
) , a small fibulare ( fib .
) , and a large , single , transversely-elongated distale ( dist. ) .
All five digits are present .
The hallux ( fig. 281 , Mt .
tsl .
1 ) is a rounded nodule of cartilage close alongside the proximal end of the second metatarsal ( Mt.tsl .
2 ) and separated by indifferent tissue from the distale .
The second digit consists of a metatarsal and one ] , the third and fourth each of a metatarsal and two phalanges , and the fifth ( fig. 282 , Mt .
tsl .
5 ) of a short conical cartilage attached by its proximal end to the fibulare and by its preaxial border to the Stage ( Plate 18 , figs. 283 and 284 ) .
The fibula is still of the same length as the tibia , but not more than half its diameter : its distal end is pointed .
The tarsals are as in the preceding stage , except that the ti.biale and fibulare are very closely applied to the end of the tibia .
The hallux has shifted distad , being attached to about the middle of the second metatarsal ; it consists of a metatarsal ( Mt .
tsl .
1 ) and one phalanx .
The fifth digit is still a distinct pointed cartilage ( Mt.tst .
5 ) but has begun to degenerate , being absolutely as well as relatively smaller than in the previous stage .
Stage ( Plate 18 , figs. 285-288 ) .
The fibula is still further reduced in size and no longer reaches to the distal end of the tibia .
The tibiale figs. has sent off the ascending process ( asc .
) which extends proximad along the anterior ( external ) face of the tibia , and neither in this nor any oiher stage shows the slightest indication of being a distinct drite comparable to an intermedium .
The fibulare ( fig. 286 , fib .
) is still distinct but smaller proportionally than in previous stages .
The mesotarsal joint has made its appearance ( fig. 287 ) by the intrusion of a mass of connective tissue\mdash ; the rudiment of the articular pad\mdash ; between the tibiale and the distale on the posterior ( flexor ) aspect of the limb .
On the postaxial side a concentration of nuclei in this tissue ( cent. 2 ' ) indicates the position of the second or postaxial centrale .
It is worth mentioning that the articular pad does not appear to be a syndesmosis ( cf. 14 ) i.e. a fibrous pad formed , like the cartilages it separates , from the common blastema of the limb , but to be iormed of connective tissue , unconnected with the limb-rudiment , which intrudes between the proximal and distal tarsals on the appearance of the mesotarsal flexure .
Its origin appears therefore to support SUTTON'S view ( 50 ) of the origin of interarticular cartilages , viz. , that they are modified tendons which have become drawn in between the opposed surfaces of the bones formin the joint .
This being the case the question naturally arises whether a nodule of hyaline cartilage appearing in such a structure can be properly counted as a tarsal .
I think , bowever , that the fact of the two chondrites which I consider as centralia making their appearance in this way may be accounted for on the hypothesis that , being vestigial or obsolescent structures , their origin is greatly letarded .
The hallux ( fig. 285 ) has nearly reached its adult position , and the second , third , and fourth digits have acquired their full number of phalanges .
The rudiment of the fifth digit ( fig. 288 , Mt .
tsl .
5 ) has undergone histological degeneration , being nolonger formed of hyaline cartilage but of indifferent tissue .
It is also greatly reduced in size , being only mm. long as against mm. in Stage , and mm. in Stage ( cf. figs. 282 , 284 , and 288 , which are all drawn to the same scale ) .
It is , therefore , evident that fifth digit undergoes gradual degeneration in Apteryx instead of concrescing with the fourth metatarsal , as in the Chick Stage ( Plate 18 , figs. 289-291 ) .
The form is assumed in all essential respects ( fig. 289 ) .
The shafts of the femur and tibia ( Tib .
) are ossified in about their middle thirds , and in.one specimen ( A. australis ) bone has also appeared in the fibula .
The tibiale has partly fused with the tibia and the fibulare ( fig. 290 , fib .
) with the tibiale .
The concrescence is , however , incomplete , some sections showing both cartilages as distinct structures .
The distal surface of the tibiale has assumed its normal pulley-like form .
The intrusive connective tissue from which the mesotarsal articular pad is formed has increased greatly in quantity ( fig. 291 ) , and the postaxial centrale ( cent. 2 ) appears in it as a distinct rounded nodule of cartilage .
The distale ( dist. ) has partially fused with the second and fourth metatarsals ( figs. 290 and 291 ) , but the third ( fig. 291 ) is still free .
Stage Ossification has greatly advanced , the thigh and shank bones having well ossified shafts .
The tarsals are still cartilaginous , but the metatarsals are bony , with the exception of that of the hallux .
They are still free and are readily separable both from one another and from the distale .
In the second and third digits all the phalanges are ossified , but in the fourth , the phalanges are cartilaginous .
Perhaps the late appearance of ossification in this digit may be looked upon as the first step in the process which , in the Ostrich , has resulted in its ccmplete atrophy .
Stage Ossification has advanced further , all the phalanges as as the first metatarsal being bony .
Stages Endosteal deposits of bone have appeared in both tibiale and distale , and the second , third , and fourth metatarsals are firmly ankylosed .
In the mesotarsal pad still encloses a single postaxial chondrite , but in a second much smaller nodule or AND DEVELOPMBNT OF APTERYX .
103 Sn cartilage is present in the preaxial moiety of the pad .
This is the first or preaxial centrale .
Stage This specimen differs from the adult only in having the tibiale still free from the tibia and the distale from the metatarsus , and in the centrale being still cartilaginous .
VI.\mdash ; THE MUSCLES OF THE WING .
( Plate 19 , figs. 293-296 .
) description of the muscles of the wing is incomplete in certain particulars .
In the specimens examined by me there is no pectoralis tertius , but only a pectoralis major ( fig. 293 , pect.maj .
) and a pectoralis secundus or subclavius ( subcl .
) , both of which correspond with OWEN'S description , The account of the coracobrachialis is hardly correct .
The coraco-brachialis superior ( cor.brach.sup .
) is a large muscle arising from the dorsal ] of the postaxial border of the coracoid and inserted into the proximal third of the humerus .
The coraco-brachialis inferior ( cor .
brach.inf .
) is a much smaller muscle arising from the ventral half of the postaxial border of the coracoid and inserted by a short tendon into the head of the humerus .
After describing he muscles of the shoulder OWEN concludes his account of the myology of the wing as ] " " A minute flexor , wanting the attachment to the scapula which exists in birds of flight , and arising solely from the humerus .
glides along the front of that bone , chiefly as a delicate tendon to be attached to the inner part of the ulna .
' ' A single extensor , almost equally tendinous and delicate , arises from the scapula represents the ' long extensor ' of VICQ D'AZYR .
It is inserted into the rudimental olecranon .
" " There is a tendinous trace of a flexor and extensor of the minute monodactyle manus ; but the motions of the rudimental wing and its terminal hook would seem to be produced as much by the cutaneous muscles which converge to be inserted into the integument connected with it , as by the feeble representatives of the true wingmuscles above described This account is imperfect in many culars .
Both biceps and triceps are incorrectly described , and the muscles of the forearm are entirely overlooked .
The omission to notice them is probably due to the very thick and tongh fascia by which they are covered , although it.must be remembered that the great variability of the entire wing may account for many discrepancies between the present account and that just quoted .
It is a curious circumstance that whenever subsequent observers have had occasion to correct the original description of Apteryx , the result has been to show the bird to be less aberrant and more typically avian than it was considered totinguished anatomist tirst long slender muscle fleshy ibout imiddle thirdknowledge otsIt structure .
arises by a single tendon from the acro coracoid tuberosity ( acr.oor .
) , and is inserted , also by an undivided tendon , into the radius at about thejunction of its proximal and middle thirds .
The triceps is a slender , two-headed muscle .
The long head arises from the postaxial border of the scapula immediately dorsad of the glenoid cavity and passes outside the teres to join the short head which arises from the distal three-fifths of the dorsal surface of the humerus .
The triceps is inserted by a broad tendon into the olecranon .
The brachialis anticus figs. is a small muscle arising from the distal eighth of the ventral ( flexor ) surface of the humerus and inserted into about the proximai sixth of the radial surface of the ulna .
Lying immediately mesiad of the preceding is a small triangular muscle ( fig. 296 , brach.ant.access .
) with very similar origin and insertion .
It arises from the internal tuberosity of the humerus and is inserted into the proximal end of the ulna .
It may be called the anticus accessorius , and is probably due to a duplication of the small flexor of the forearm such as is occasionally found in Mammals .
It was present in two win of A. , but was absent on both sides of the specimen of A. australis on which most of my observations were made .
The nconeus ( figs. 293 and 295 , ancon .
) arises by a flat tendon from the external tuberosity of the humerus ; its fibres diverge in a fan-like manner , and are inserbed into the greater part of the outer surface of the shaft of the ulna .
SELENKA ( 49 ) makes no mention of this muscle : MORRISON WATSON ( 51 ) failed to find it in Penguins , in some genera of it is said by other observers to exist .
It must act partly as a pronator .
The single ( figs. 293 and 295 , snpin .
) arises with the preceding muscle from the external tuberosity of the humerus , and is inserted into the anterior ( preaxial ) border of the shaft of the radius .
The single pronator ( figs. 294 and 296 , pron .
) arises by a flat tendon from the internal tuberosity of the humerus : its fibres diverge , and are inserted into the distal two-thirds of the inner ( flexor ) surface of the radius .
As the pronator on the inner may be said to balance the supinator on the outer surface of the forearm , so the externally situated anconeus is balanced by a very similar muscle ( figs. 294 and 396 , flex.prot.int .
) which arises from the internal tuberosity of the humerus , and is inserted by diverging fibres into the inner ( flexor ) face of the distal two-thirds of the ulna .
It appears to answer to the flexor profundus interior ceorum of SELENKA ( 49 ) , which is well developed in the common fowl , but has nothing like the same proximo-distal extent as in Apteryx .
It also seems to AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
correspond with the muscle called accessorivs by MIVART ( 22 ) in In the specimen of A. examined , the tendon of origin of this muscle crosses that of the pronator ( fig. 294 ) .
The extensor carpi ulnaris figs. is a very slender muscle , arising in common with the supinator , of which , proximad , it forms a part .
Its fleshy portion is extremely small , and soon passes into a long and very delicate tendon , which is inserted into the dorsal surface of the carpo-metacarpus , near its postaxial border .
In a specimen of A. bulleri ( fig. 295 ) this muscle was entirely tendinous .
The extensor indicis proprius figs. is a small muscle arising from the contiguous surfaces of the radius and ulna .
Distally it passes into a strong tendon which , in the specimen of A. australi .
( fig. 293 ) , could not be traced beyond the middle of the carpo-metacarpus , but in that of A. bulleri ( fig. 295 ) is inserted into the base of the distal of the single ( second ) digit .
I c.all this muscle an extensor indicis rather than an extensor digitorum communis , because of its origin .
The extensor metacarpi ) figs. is a very small muscle , arising with the preceding from the contiguous surfaces of the radius and ulna , and passing distad into a slender tendon , which curves preaxiad over the dorsal surface of the carpo-metacarpus to be inserted into its border .
The flexor digitor.um profundus ( figs. 294 and 296 , fleix .
dig.prof .
) is a small muscle arising with the two preceding from the contiguous surfaces of the radius and It is continued into a rather broad flat tendon which passes along the inner ( flexor ) face of the carpo-metacarpus and proximal phalanx , and is inserted into the base of the distal phalanx .
In one specimen ( A. australis ) a minute tendon ( fig. 294 , flex.carp.rad .
) was seen preaxiad of that of the deep flexor , and passing to the side of the carpometacarpus : probably it is a vestigial flexor carpi radialis .
In one specimen of A. bulleri a few fleshy fibres ( fig. 295 , interos.dors .
) were seen on the dorsal face of the carpo-metacarpus , and immediately preaxiad of the extensor indicis tendon : they probably represent an interosseus dorsalis .
The wing of Apteryx is thus seen to have the usual flexors and extensors of the forearm , and a rather unusually large development of muscles acting as pronators and supinators for so small and obviously vestigial an organ .
There is also a fairsized flexor and an equally large extensor of the single digit , as well as two small extensors and a minute flexor of the carpo-metacarpus .
The evidences of degeneration are very clear , and the variability of the muscles is noteworthy , the two specimens examined differing considerably in minor points .
The differences in the myology of the wing between the Kiwi and the ( 20 , p. 549 ) are very marked : I have not been able to any detailed description of the wing-muscles in the other Ratitae .
VII.\mdash ; THE BRAIN .
the Adult .
( Plate 19 , figs. 297-303 .
) The brain and cerebral nerves of are described by OWEN in a supple- mentary memoir ( 24 , b ) illustrated by several figures .
As , however , the description is imperfect in some particulars , and the figures small , and drawn from specimens from which the pia with its bloodvessels had not been removed , I have thought it advisable to preface bhe account of the development of the brain by brief description of the adult organ taken from well-preserved brains of A. ustralis and A. bulleri .
The terminology employed was suggested in a short paper in ' Nature ' ( 29 ) .
Comparing the brain of Apter .
with that of other Birds , , the Turkey , figured by HUXLEY ( 16 , pp. 302 and 308 ) , the Goose , Gull , and Eagle by OWEN ( 25 , pp. 118 and 119 ) , and the Pigeon by WIEDERSHEIM ( 53 , p. 165 ) and myself ( 27 , pp. 255 and 259 ) , one is struck with the proportionally large size of the cerebral hemispheres Prosen with they overlap .
In this respect Apteryx resembles the Passerine Birds more closely than the comparatively generalized Gallinae and Columbae .
As in other Birds , the outline of the cerebellum is roughly semicircular from before backwards ( figs. 299 and ) , and is marked externally by grooves , which radiate from the flocculus ( floc .
) : in Carinatae the , on the ante.rior , as well as those on the posterior moiety of the epencephal are visible ex'ternally , while in Apteryx the anterior ones are completely hidden , the hemispheres extending as far back as the flocculi .
As a consequence of this , the pineal peduncle ( fig. 301 , Pin instead of being vertical , is inclined backwards .
Another peculiarity is the position of the diencephal , which is best seen in a sagittal section ( fig. 301 ) .
In most Birds the lamina terminalis looks directly forwards , the optic chiasma downwards , while the foramen of MONRO is in the anterodorsal angle of the diacoele , or third ventricle , and the anterior commissure just beneath it .
In Apteryx the whole of this division of the brain is as it were tilted backwards : the lamina terminalis ( lam.term .
) looks upwards , and the optic chiasma ( opt.chs .
) forwards , the foramen of MONRO ( for .
) is in the postero-dorsal angle of the diacoele ( di .
coo .
) and the anterior commissure ( ant.com .
) in the middle of its dorsal wall .
In the same way , the optic commissure ( opt.com .
) , or thin roof of the iter , is vertical , instead of horizontal .
The combined anterior commissure ( ant.com .
) and corpus callosum ( corp.call .
) is unusually large , the posterior commissure ( post.com .
) small .
The pineal body ( figs. 29 and 301 , ) has the usual form ; the pituitary body ( Pty. ) is globular and connected with a narrow conical infundibulum ( inf .
) .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
The relations of the more important cavities of the brain , including the small or ventricles of the optic lobes ( opt .
coo .
) are shown in figs. 300-303 .
The numerous olfactory nerves are given off from the ventral and anterior surfaces of the rhinencephal ( Rhinen .
) , and pass , some almost directly downwards , others forwards , to the Schneiderian membrane .
Plate figs. The small optic nerves Nv .
pass from the chiasma downwards and forwards to the eye .
The nerves of the eye muscles have the usual relations ; their mode of exit from the skull has already been described ( pp. 46 and 47 ) .
The trigeminal ( Nv .
) is said by OWEN ( 24 , p. 324 ) to leave ths cranium before dividing , but this not the case .
Its root lies immediately over the trigeminal foramen ( Plate 14 , fig. 167 , and it divides shortly after its origin into two trunks ; one of which\mdash ; the common trunk of the second and third divisions ) passes downwards and forwards through the trigeminal foramen , while the other\mdash ; the first division or orbitonasal nerve figs. \mdash ; passes forwards along the surface of the orbitosphenoid bone , finally making its exit from the skull by the orbitonasal foramen figs. .
sections of Stage show conclusively that OWEN is in error when he says that it is the ventral ramus of the orbitonasal which supplies the tactile organ at the end of the beak , while the dorsal ramus " " becomes lost upon the septal membrane\ldquo ; ; as a matter of fact it is the dorsal ramus figs. which ] the tactile organ ; the ventral ramus ( Nv .
) supplies the outer surface of the beak .
The seventh nerve figs. arises from the lateral region of the metencephal ( Meten .
) , behind and above the root of the fifth ; it is immediately followed by the eighth ( .
VIIl .
) which , as already stated ( p. 45 ) , divides , into two main and about three smaller branches , which enter the auditory capsule through arate foramina .
There is nothing of special interest in the origins of the ninth to the twelfth nerves ( Nv .
IX .
, X. , XI .
and XII .
Development of the Brain .
My observations on this subject are very imperfect owing to lack of material ; they are however not without interest , since they seem to prove conclusively what might have been inferred from adult anatomy that the brain of Apteryx is simply a typical avian encephal with reduced optic lobes .
Stages and ( Plate 4 , figs. 17 , 18 , and 22-30 ) .
The metencephal ( Meten .
) has already undergone a considerable thickening of its floor , while its roof is very thin ; the cerebellum or epencepbal ( fig. 17 , Epen .
) is indicated merely by a thickening of the antero-dorsal region of the lJlind-brain .
The floor of the metacoele or fourth ventricle ( mt .
coo .
) has an undulating antero-posterior contour ( fig. 17 ) ; the depressions probably correspond with the doubtful encephalomeres into hich this region of the brain is frequently divided .
The mesencephal , as already seen from an external view ( Plate 3 , figs. and 2 , Mesen is small , and shows no indication of optic lobes on its dorsal surface .
The diencephal large , and contains a spacious diacoele or third ( di .
coo ) .
The pineal body figs. has the form of a narrow diverticulum , and iately c of it a second out-pushing of the roof of the diacoele Pr .
Pin .
which I have not seen mentioned .
It very different in form from the pin offshoot , being expanded at its origin , and narrowing almost to a point distad .
This structure , which apparently gives rise to the velum interpositum , may be called the diverticulum .
The ventral region of the diencephal is dilated to form the infundibulum ( inf ) to which the pituitary out-pushing of the stomodaeum is closely applied .
Its lateral regions off the optic vesicles which are invaginated .
The prosthiencephal ( secondary fore-brain , unpaired cerebral rudiment ) has already divided into a median portion , the basi-cerebrum , containing a wide cavity , the aula ( figs. 17 , 22 , and 23 ) , and paired offshoots , the prosencephals or cerebral hemispheres , containin large prosocoeles or lateral ventricles ( fig. 22 , prs .
coo .
) , the walls of which are still of approximately equal thickness throughout .
Stage ( Plate 5 , figs. 34-42 ) .
The metencephal and epencephal ( fig. 36 , Epen .
) have undergone comparatively little alteration , but in the other divisions of the brain changes of considerable importance have taken place .
The mesencephal , although still simple in front , has divided posteriorily into a median ventral portion , the basi-opticus ( fig. 35 , Bs .
Opt and paired offshoots , the optic lobes .
with this the mesocoele , which is still a simple cayity in the anterior part of the region ( fig. 34 , Ms. coo .
) , is distinguishable into a median iter ( fig. 35 ) and paired optocoeles ( Opt .
coo .
) .
In the fore-brain the posterior or outer ] of the prosocoeles have undergone a considerable thickening , forming the rudiments of the corpora striata ( corp .
stri The aula is reduced to a small cleft , communicatin by narrow apertures , the foramina of MONRO ( for .
) , with the prosocoeles .
Stages ( Plate 19 , figs. 304-307 ) .
The brain has advanced immensely between Stages and , but very little change is noticeable between and , the chief differences being the greater size and rounder form of the hemispheres in the later stage ( cf. figs. 304 and 306 ) .
As shown by a sagittal section ( fig. 307 ) , the flexure betweeu the fore- and hindbrain is at its maximum .
The metencephal ( Meten .
) has practically assumed its adult AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
109 characters , except for its strong sigmoid flexure , but the cerebellum ( Epen .
) has the form of a semi-circuIar flap , marked with a median groove , and closely resembling the corresponding structure in a lizard .
The optic thalami ( fig. 307 , Opt .
that .
) have the form of small rounded prominences projecting inwards from the lateral walls of the dorsal region of the diacoele ( di .
coo .
) : the remaining part of the wall of this cavity is still quite thin .
Its roof is formed by a projecting sac-like velum interpositum ( vel.int .
) , which is apparently derived from the prepineal diverticulum of Stage A. The long axis of the hemispheres ( Prosen .
) is instead of horizontal , and each shows a very distinct temporal lobe ( fig. 305 ) .
The corpus striatum ( fig. 304 , corp.stri .
) is very large , the mesial wall of the prosocoele ( prs .
) quite thin .
Stage ( Plate 19 , figs. 308 and 309 ) .
This very interesting stage I was only able to examine from sections : the figures are therefore restorations .
The hind-brain ( Meten .
, Epen .
) has undergone comparatively little alteration , but the mid- and fore-brains show a condition of things as nearly as possible intermediate between Stage and the adult .
The optencephals ( Opten .
) have become widely separated from one another by the elongation of the optic commissure ( opt.com .
) or medio-dorsal portion of the midbrain ; they have therefore come to occupy a lateral position as in ordinary birds ( see also Plate ] , fig. 143 ) .
At the same time the hemispheres ( Prosen .
) haVe grown backwards so as partly to cover the mid-brain .
There is only wanted an increase in size , and forward extension of the cerebellum to convert the brain of at this stage into a typical avian encephal .
Stage ( Plate 17 , fig. 310 ) .
The adult characters are now fully attained , except that the optic Iobes ( Opten .
) and the flocculi ( floc .
) are considerably larger than in the fully developed organ .
VIII .
EYE .
( Plate 19 , fig. 311 .
) I have only a single fact to mention with regard to the eye , but that is one of considerable interest .
As OWEN showed , the pecten is absent in the adult , being in this respect unique among birds .
But in advanced embryos of stages and I there is a distinct pecten in the form of a conical pigmented prominence , about 1-2 mm. long , passing from the entrance of the optic nerve towards the back of the lens .
Figs. 311 is taken from a dissection of Stage ( Plate 13 ) shows its relations in a section of Stage H. SUMMARY .
1 .
New Terms Proposed .
Chondrite , an independent cartilaginous element , or centre of chondrification .
Osteite , an independent bony element or centre of ossification .
Centrochondrite , cartilaginous , Centrosteite , bony , elements of a vertebral body .
Neurochondrite , cartilaginous , rosteite , bony , elements of a neural arch .
Plen , rochondrite , cartilaginous , Pleurosteite , bony , elements of a rib or autogenous transverse process .
plate , the middle trabecula of RATHKE ; a mass of blastema formed above ( cephalad of ) the upturned anterior end of the notochord , and continuous behind with the parachordals .
, a nodular chrondrite which appears in the prochordal plate , and gives rise to the medio-dorsal portion of the dorsum sellae .
-vertebral angle , the angle enclosed between the long axis of the coracoid and that of the vertebral column .
, the entire series of vertebrae which support the ilia , and include thoracic , lumbar , sacral , and caudal vertebrae .
2 .
Characters .
In Stage , corresponding with a sixth day Chick , there is a well marked operculum growing backwards from the hyoidean fold , and covering the third ( ?
and fourth ) visceral cleft .
A rudiment of this structure is seen in the preceding stage ( pp. 30 and 31 , Plate 3 , figs. 2 , 8 , and 4 , Plate 5 , fig. 41 ) .
In Stage , corresponding in general features with a fourth day Chick , but in some respects not more advanced than one of the third day , the limbs have already attained their permanent position , so that if the backward shifting of the appendages so noticeable in the Chick occurs in Apteryx , it must take place at an unusually early period ( p. 28 ; Plate 3 , fig. 1 ) .
From the first appearance of the feather-papillae there are well-marked pterylae and , most of which can be made out with tolerable distinctness in the adult ( pp. 33 , 34 , and 35 ; Plate 3 , figs. 8 , 10 , and 12 ) .
The wing of the adult has a well-marked pre-and post-patagium , and amongst its feathers may be distinguished nine or ten cubitals , two or three metacarpals , one mid- digital , and a row of tectrices majores .
The barbicels of the feathers are slightly curved ( p. 37 ; Plate 3 , figs. 14 , 15 , and 16 ) .
The fore-limb passes through a stage in which it is a tridactyle paw with sub-equal digits , followed by one in which it is a typical wing with hypertrophied second and partially atrophied first and third digits ( pp. 32 and 33 ; Plate 3 , figs. 6 and 9 ) .
The nostril has acquired its final position at the end of the beak in Stage : up to AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
the middle of incubation the whole respiratory region of the olfactory chamber from the anterior nares to the commencement of the turbinals , is filled with a solid mass of epithelial cells , through which a passage is formed at a later period ( pp. 61 , 63 , and 65 ; Plate 10 , fig. 114 ; Plate 10 , fig. 128 ; Plate 12 , figs. 150 and 151 ) .
At no stage is there any trace of the caruncle or " " egg-breaker\ldquo ; at the end of the beak ( p. 35 ) .
3 .
The Law of Growth .
The head attains its maximum size in Stage , i.e. , shortly before the , ppearance of ossification : thereafter the beak increases , and the brain-case diminishes in relative size , the beak attaining its full proportional length in Stage H\mdash ; probably about the middle of incubation\mdash ; while the brain-case continues to undergo a relative diminution in size up to adult life ( p. 40 ; Plate 6 and Plate 7 , fig. 46 ) .
The sternum and the pectoral and pelvic-girdles attaixl their maximum or nearly so in Stage , thereafter but little alteration ( pp. 40 and 42 ; Plate 6 , and Plate 7 , fig. 47 ) .
The fore-limb also attains its maximum proportional size in Stage , undergoing little subsequent alteration ( p. 42 ; Plate 6 , and Plate 7 , fig. 48 ) .
The hind-limb increases rapidly and regularly up to Stage ( time of hatching ) between which period and the attainment of adult proportions there appears to be a slight decrease in relative length ( p. 42 ; Plate 6 and Plate 7 , fig. 49 ) .
4 .
Specific Differences .
The beak is relatively slightly longer in A. than in A. : the difference between the two sexes , in this respect , is very slight ( p. 40 ) .
The pelvic girdle and the sternum are relatively longer in A. australis than in A. oweni : the reverse appears to be the case with the scapula ( p. 42 ; Plate 7 , fig. 47 ) .
The hind-limb is relatively longer in the male than in the female , the differences holding good for all three divisions of the leg .
There appear to be no constant specific differences in this respect ( p. 42 ; Plate 6 and Plate 7 , fig. 49 ) .
In A. australis the alar claw is gently curved and of a light horn coloul , blotched with black ( p. 37 ) : the length of the corpus sterni , as defined on p. S5 , is greater than half its breadth , and the anterior margin of the sternum is concave , with an even curve ( p. 85 ; Plate 16 , figs. 208 and 209 ) : the manus has a carpo-metacarpus , but no free radiale or ulnare , and the third metacarpal is ossified from the second ( pp. 92 and 97 ; Plate 17 , fig. 241 , and Plate 18 , figs. 266 and 270 ) .
In A. oweni the alar claw is soft and weak , gently curved , and of a light horn colour ( p. 37 ) : the length of the corpus sterni is less than half its breadth , and the anterior sternal margin is sinuous ( p. 85 ; Plate 16 , fi gs .
214 and 215 ) : the manus has a free radiale in addition to the carpo-metacarpus , and the third metacarpal is ossified separately ( pp. 93 and 98 ; Plate 17 , figs. 242-244 ) .
In A. bulleri the alar claw is black and curved ( p. 37 ) : the length of the corpus sterni is less than half its breadth , and the anterior sternal margin evenly curved and much more emarginate than in A. Plate 16 , and 213 ) : the manus is very variable ; there sometimes a simple carpometacarpus , sometimes a radiale and carpo-metacarpus , sometimes a radio-distale and free second and third metacarpals , sometimes the second metacarpal alone fuses with the carpals and with the distalia only , leaving a free radiale ; the third metacarpal is , sometimes at least , ossified separately ( pp. 93 and 97 ; Plate 17 , figs. 245-249 , and Plate 18 , ) .
My observations on A. are not sufficiently complete to have any systematic value .
5 .
Tlre Skull .
In Stages A and the only cranial rudiments present are the parachordal plates , continued cephalad into the prochordal plate , and the visceral arches ( pp. 56 and 57 ; Plate 4 ) .
In Stage the trabeculae have appeared , and are continuous with the parachordals ; the prochordal plate sends off paired processes directly upwards in the mesen jephalic flexure , and laterad of the third nerves ( pp. 57 and 58 ; Plate5 , figs. 35-37 ) .
In Stages and the pituitary fossa is pierced by three apertures in longitudinal anterior , middle , and posterior basicranial fontanelles .
A theoretical explanation of these is given in fig. 103 , Plate 10 ( p. 60 ) .
The middle fontanelle has disappeared in Stage ( p. 63 ; Plate 11 , fig. 126 ) , but the anterior and posterior are still recognisable in Stages and ( pp. 66 and 70 ; Plate12 , fig. 148 ; Plate 13 , fig. 161 ; Plate 14 , figs. 167 , 173 , and 174 ) .
Through the anterior fontanelle the pituitary pedicle passes .
The medio-dorsal portion of the dorsum sellae arises as a distinct chondrite , the prochordal cartilage ( pp. 62 and 64 ; Plate 10 , fi gs .
109 and 111 ; Plate 11 , fig. 126 ) , which in Stages and is quite separate both from the trabecular and from the parachordal regions of the skull .
None of the stages show a separate prenasal cartilage or intertrabecula : if present as distinct chondrite it certainly does not extend further backwards than the anterior loidal region ; the posterior presphenoidal region is dearly formed from the trabeculae ( p. 59 ; Plate9 , figs. 90 and 91 ) .
In Stages , and the presphenoid is a vertical plate of considerable anteroposterior extent , and gives origin to a pair of large orbitosphenoids ; Plate 9 , figs. 85 and 86 ; Plate 10 , figs. 96-98 and 104-108 ) .
In Stage the orbitosphenoids have begun to atrophy ( p. 64 ; Plate 11 , figs. 123-126 ) and in later stages are reduced to narrow bars of cartilage ( p. 47 ; Plate 9 , fig. 75 ) , the presphenoid at the same time undergoing a great diminution in antero-posterior extent .
The olfactory capsules extend backwards to the optic foramina mesiad of the eyes ?
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
113 ( Plate 9 , fig. 77 ; and Plate 13 , fig. 158 ) : there is at no stage an interorbital septum .
The turbinals are unusually well developed and are divisible into anterior , middle , posterior , anterior accessory , ventral accessory , and naso-turbinal folds .
Alone amongst these the anterior accessory turbinal is formed as a hollow invagination of the wall of the olfactory capsule , not as a plate-like ingrowth ( p. 49 ; Plate 8 , fig. 57 ; Plate 9 , figs. 83 and 84 ; Plate 12 , fig. 151 ; Plate 13 , figs. 153-158 ) : its cavity cont , ains a prolongation of the antrum of HIGHMORE .
These are paired , rod-like , JACOBSON'S lying one on each side of the rostrum in the vomerine region ( p. 51 ; Plate 9 , figs. 76 and 77 ; Plate 13 , figs. 155-157 ) .
In late embryonic life , and even in the adult , the quadrate articulates with the roof of the tympanic cavity by a double articular surface ( p. 51 ; Plate 9 , figs. 78 and 79 ) .
The hyoidean portion of the chondrifies late\mdash ; subsequently to Stage \mdash ; and never ossifies ( pp. 52 and 65 ; Plate 9 , fig. 82 , and Plate 11 , fig. 132 ) .
6 .
The Vertebral Column .
As in other Birds , the atlas arises from a post-occipital intercentrum and a pair of neurochondrites .
he axis consists originally of seven pieces ; ibs own centrochondrite , the odontoid or centrochondrite of the atlas , a post-atlantal intercentrum , a pair of neurochondrites , and a pair of pleurochondrites .
In both vertebrae each of these elements ossifies separately figs. .
The way in which the notochord is constricted by the ingrowing centrochondrites differs greatly in the various regions ( p. 79 ; Plate 15 , figs. 194-197 ) .
The atlas and axis in a newly-batched embryo differ far less than in the adult from those of the other Ratitae ( p. 73 ) .
Two intercentra are described in the caudal region ( pp. 78 and 84 ; Plate 15 , figs. and A new method of writing the vertebral formula of Birds is adopted and 83 ) .
7 .
The Sternum Ribs .
In Stage the sternum is nearly horizontal in position ; only two sternal ribs are attached to it by joints , and a third by indifferent tissue ; and it does not extend caudad of the attachment of the third ( p. 87 ; Plate 16 , fig. 216 ) .
Tn Stage three ribs are united to it by joints , and a fourth by fibrous tissue , S7 ; Plate 16 , fig. 217 ) .
In Stage there is the normal number of four sternal ribs in connection with the sternum .
These facts seem to show that the costal sternum does not originate by the union of the ventral ends of all four sternal ribs , but that it extends backwards independently of the third and fourth ribs ; meetin them in turn and becoming united with them by joints .
PROFESSOR T. J. PARKER ON THE ANATOMY In some adult specimens the sternum bears a low median ridge , probably to be looked upon as a vestigial keel Plate figs. .
The form of the adult sternum is very variable ( Plate 16 , figs. 208-215 ) .
8 .
The Shoulder-Girdle .
Up to Stage the shoulder-girdle is a single cartilage ( Plate 17 , figs. 233-237 ) .
During that stage procoracoid and coracoid are differentiated by fenestration ( p. 91 ; Plate 17 , fig. 238 ) .
The procoracoid degenerates into a ]igament ( p. 92 ; Plate 17 , and 240 ) , which is sometimes present in the adult ( p. 89 ; Plate 16 , , 226 , and 229 ) .
The coracoid fenestra may persist or may be filled up by a preaxial extension of the coracoid ( p. 89 ; Plate 16 , figs. 225-232 ) .
Acromial , procoracoid , and acrocoracoid tuberosities are present ( p. 90 ; Plate 16 , .
The coraco-scapular angle varies from to .
In Stage the scapula is curved backwards over the ribs ( p. 91 ; Plate 16 , fig. 216 ) .
In the same stage the coraco-vertebral angle is ; by Stage it has increased to ( p. 91 ) .
The adult shoulder-girdle is subject to great variation both in form and size ( Plate 16 , figs. 225-232 ) .
9 .
The Fore-Limb .
In the carpus a radiale , an ulnare , and the three preaxial distalia are distinguishable in early stages ( pp. 94-95 ; Plate 17 , figs. 254-260 ) .
The distalia usually concresce with the second and third metacarpals to form a carpo-metacarpus , with which the radiale and ulnare may or may not become united ( pp. 95-97 ; Plate 17 , figs. 261-264 , and Plate 18 , figs. 265-273 ) .
The pollex usually atrophies at an early stage , but a vestige of it may persist ( pp. 95 and 97 ; Plate 17 , figs. 257 and 263 ; Plate 18 , fig. 271 ) .
The manus is fairly constant in structure in and A. oweni , but is very variable in .
bulleri ( p. 92 ; Plate 17 , figs. 241-253 ) .
10 .
The Pelvic .
Girdle .
The pubis and ischium are nearly vertical in Stages and , and gradually become rotated backwards Plate figs. .
The post-ilium is already fully formed in Stage , the pre-ilium not until Stage ( pp. 98 and 99 ; Plate 18 , figs. 274-277 ) .
The pectineal process is .
ossified equally from the ilium and the pubis ( p. 99 ; Plate 18 , fig. 279 ) .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
11 .
The In the tarsus a tibiale , a fibulare , and a single distale are distinguishable Stages and ( p. 101 ; Plate 18 , figs. 280 and 283 ) .
In a postaxial appears in the rudiment of the mesotarsal articular pad ( p. 101 ; fig. 287 ) ; in it becomes chondrified , and in the adult sified .
smaller preaxial centrale is first seen as a distinct chondrite in Stage ( p. 102 ) ; in the adult of A. australis and A. ?
it was observed as a separate bone in the preaxial moiety of the mesotarsal pad ( p. 100 , fig. 292 ) .
In Stage the fifth digit is represented by an elongated metatarsal ( p. 101 ; fig. 282 ) ; in this has diminished in size ( p. 101 ; fig. 284 ) ; and in undergone almost complete atrophy ( p. 102 ; fig. 288 ) .
12 .
Musctes of the Wing .
The following muscles are present in the wing in addition to those described by OWEN :\mdash ; Brachialis anticus , supinator , pronator , anconeus , flexor profundus internus , extensor carpi ulnaris , extensor metacarpi radialis brevis , extensor indicis proprius , and flexor digitorum profundus .
There may also be a brachialis anticus accessorius , an interosseus dorsalis , and probably a flexor oarpi radialis ( p. 104 ; Plate 19 , figs. 293-296 ) .
The biceps arises from the acrocoracoid , the triceps by a long head from the scapula and by a short head from the humerus ( p. 104 ; fig. 293 ) .
13 .
The Brain .
The mesencephal is unusually small frcm the ffist ( p. 108 ; Plate 3 , figs. 1 and 2 ) .
In Stages D-F the optic lobes are dorsal ( Plate 19 , figs. 304 and 306 ) ; in they become lateral by the transverse extension of the optic commissure or median portion of the roof of the mesocoele ( p. 109 ; figs. 308 and 309 ) ; in they are alread .
ventral , although larger proportionally than in the adult ( fig. 310 ) .
The diencephal becomes tilted backwards in later stages , its dorsal wall beconling posterior , and the foramen of MONRO postero-dorsal instead of antero-dorsal ( p. 106 ; fig. 301 ) .
The anterior commissure and corpus callosum are large ( fig. 301 ) .
The cerebral hemispheres are of unusual proportional length , and partly , er the cerebellum ( figs. 297 , 299 , and 301 ) .
14 .
The Eye .
A pecten is present during ] embryonic life ; Plate 13 , fig. 158 , and Plate 19 , fig. 311 ) .
15 .
Phylogeny .
The following characters support the view that Apteryx is derived from a typical Avian form capable of flight:\mdash ; .
The presence of an alar membrane or patagium ( p. 36 ; Plate 3 , figs. 14 and 15 ) . .
The presence of pterylae and apteria ( pp. 33 , 34 , and 35 ; Plate 3 , figs. 8 , 10 , and 12 ) . .
The presence of remiges and of tectrices majores ( p. 37 ; Plate 3 , figs. 14 and 15 ) . .
The attitude assumed during sleep ( p. 36 ) . .
The presence of two articular facets on the head of the quadrate ( p. 51 The presence of a pygostyle ( p. 83 ) . .
The extreme variability of the sternum , shoulder-girdle , and win , indicating degeneration . .
The occasional occurrence of a median longitudinal ridge or vestigial keel on the sternum ( Plate 16 , figs. 210 , 211 , and 213 ) . .
The position of the shoulder-girdle and sternum in Stage ( p. 91 ; Plate 16 , fig. 216 ) . .
The presence of vestigial acromial , procoracoid , and acrocor.acoid processes . .
The fact that the skeleton of the fore-limb is that of a true wing in Stage ( p. 94 ; Plate 17 , fig. 256 ) . .
The early assumption of undoubted avian characters in the pelvis ( p. 98 ) . .
The typically avian characters , both as to structure and development , of the vertebral column and hind-limb . .
The fact that the brain passes through a typical avian stage with lateral optic lobes ( p. 109 ; Plate 19 , figs. 308 and 309 ) .
0 .
The relations of the subclavius muscle ( p. 90 ; Plate 19 , fig. 293 ) .
On the other hand the total absence of rectrices tells against this view .
The following characters indicate derivation from a more generalised type than existing Birds :\mdash ; .
The characters of the chondrocranium , especially in the earlier stages ( pp. \amp ; c Many of these peculiarities , e.g. , the absence of an interorbital septum , may , however , be adaptive and correlated with the diminished eyes and the enlarged olfactory organs . .
The presence of an operculum in early ( pp. 30 and 81 ; Plate 3 , figs. 2 , 3 , and 4 ; Plate 5 , fig. 41 ) .
As however this structure has not been described in Reptiles , it either proves nothing or too much . .
The presence of a well-marked rocoracoid in comparatively late embryonic life ( p. 92 ; 17 , figs. 238 and 239 ) . .
The characters of the pelvis .
AND VELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
On the..other hand , in the following characters Apteryx exhibits greater specialisation than other birds:\mdash ; .
The early assumption of their permanent position by the limbs ( p. .
The late appearance and obviously degraded character of the hyoid portion of the tongue-bone ( pp. 52 and 65 ) . .
The position of the nostrils and the peculiar mode of development of the respiratory section of the nasal chamber ( pp. 61 , 63 , and 65 ) . .
The total absence of clavicles .
Such characters as the position of the basipterygoid processes , the broad vomer , and the presence of JACOBSON'S cartilages , being paralleled in existing natae , some of them even in Passerines , can hardly be considered as of fundamental importance , since they may be derived either from a Proto-Carinate or from an early typical Carinate stock .
Before considering the pecu]iarities in the development of the sternum as of fundamental importance , it will be necessary to study that of the flightless Carinatae , and especially of Stringops ( p. 86 ) .
The general balance of evidence seems to ) oint to the derivation of both Ratitae and Carinatae from an early group of typical flying Birds , or ( p. 37 ) .
LIST OF WORKS REFERRED TO .
1 .
ALBRECHT , P. " " Die zwischen Gehirn und Hypophysis liegenden Wirbelcentrum complexe ' Anat .
Anzeiger , ' 2 ( 1887 ) , p. 405 .
2 .
BALFOUR , F. M. 'Comparative Embryology .
' London , 1881 .
3 .
BAUR , G. " " Der Tarsus der Vogel und Dinosaurier 'Morphol .
Jahrb .
, 8 ( 1882 ) , p. 417 .
4 .
ld .
" " On the Morphology of Ribs 'American Naturalist , ' ( 1887 ) , p. 942 .
5 .
BEDDARD , F. E. " " Notes on the Visceral Anatomy of Birds , No. 1 'Zool .
Soc. Proc 1885 , p. 836 . .
'L'Organisation du Regne Animal ; Oiseaux .
' Livr . .
( Quoted in have not seen this work .
) 7 .
BULLER , W. L. " " Further Notes on the of New Zealand Zealand Inst. Trans vol. 3 ( 1870 ) , p. 37 .
8 .
ld .
'A History of the Birds of New Zealand .
' 2nd Ed. London , 1888 .
8 .
COUGHTREY , M. " " Anatomical Notes on the Moa 's Leg found at Knobby Ranges , in the Pr.ovin-ce of Otago 'New Zealand Inst. Trans vol. 7 ( 1874 ) , p. 269 .
9 .
FLOWER , W. H. " " The Wings of Birds 'Nature , ' vol. 34 ( 1886 ) , p. 204. .
10 .
FOSTER , M. , and BALFOUR , F. M. 'Elements of Embryology .
' 2nd Ed. London , .
11 .
FURBRINGER , .
'Die Morphologie und Systematik ' II .
Allgemeiner Theil .
Amsterdam , 1888 .
12 .
GADOW , H. " " On the Morphology of the First and Second Visceral Arches , \amp ; c ' Phil. , vol. ( 1888 ) , p. 451 .
13 .
Id. " " Remarks on the NuInbers and on the Phy]ogenetic Development of the Remiges of Birds 'Zool . .
Proc 1888 , p. 655 .
14 .
HOWES , G. B. " " Observations upon the Morphology and Genesis of Supernumerary Phalanges , \amp ; c 'Zool .
Soc. Proc , p. 495 .
15 .
HUTTON , F. W. " " Remarks on Dr. V0N HAAST'S Classification of the Moas ' New ealand Inst. Trans vol. 9 ( 1876 ) , p. 363 .
16 .
HUXLEY , T. H. The Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals .
' London , 1871 .
17 .
Id. " " On the Classification of Birds 'Zool .
Soc. Proc 1867 , p. 415 .
18 .
JOHNSON , A. " " On the Development of the Pelvic Girdle and Skeleton of the Hind Limb in the Chick 'Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Sci vol. 23 ( 1883 ) , p. 399 .
19 .
LINDSAY , B. " " On the Avian Sternum 'Zool .
Soc. Proc 1885 , p. 684 .
20 .
MACALISTER , A. " " On the Anatomy of the Ostrich 'Roy .
Acad. Proc 1864 , p. 531 .
21 .
MIVART , ST .
G. " " On the Axial Skeleton of the Struthionidae 'Zool .
Soc. Trans vol. 10 , p. 1 .
22 .
Id. " " Notes on the Myology of Iguana 'Zool .
Soc. Proc 1867 , p. 766 . .
MIVART , ST .
G. , and CLARKE , R. " " On the Sacral Plexus and Sacral Vertebrae of Lizards and other Vertebrata 'Linn .
Soc. Trans 2nd Series ( Zool. ) , vol. 1 , p. 513 .
23 .
NITSCH .
'Pterylography .
' Ray Society , 1867 .
24 .
OWEN , R. 'Mernoirs on the Extinct Wingless Birds of New Zealand .
' London , . .
" " On the Apteryx \ldquo ; p. 1 .
'Zool .
Soc. Trans vol. 2 , p. 257 ; vol. 3 , p. 277 . .
" " On the Apteryx ( Brain and Nerves p. 321 .
'Zool .
Soc. Trans vol. 7 , p. 381 . .
" " On the Apteryx australis ( Mandibular and Hyoidean Muscles p. 334 .
' Zool. Soc. Trans vol. 7 , p. 392 .
25 .
Id. 'On the Anatomy of Vertebrates , ' vol. 2 .
London , 1866 .
26 .
PARKER , T. J. " " On the Skeleton of Notornis mantelli 'New Zealand Inst. Trans vol. 14 ( 1881 ) , p. 245 .
27 .
ld .
' Zootomy .
' London , 1884 .
28 .
ld .
" " ( Second)*Preliminary Note on the Development of Apteryx 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 43 , p. 482 .
so-called ' ' Preliminary Note on the Development of the Skeleton of the Apteryz is merely an unrevised extract from my rough note book , and was not intended for publioation .
I am , also , not AND EVELOPMENT OF APTERyX .
29 . .
" " On the Nomenclature of the Brain and its Cavities 'Nature , ' vol. 35 ( 1886 ) , p. 208 .
30 .
PARKER , W. K. " " On the Structure and Development of the Skull in ) Ostrich Tribe ' Phil. Trans 1865 , p. 113 .
31 .
Id. " " On the Structure and Development of the Skull of the Common Fowl ' Phil. Trans 1866 , p. 755 .
32 .
Id. " " On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Pig 'Phil .
Trans. , '1873 , p. 289 .
33 .
Id. " " On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Lacertilia 'Phil .
Trans 1879 , p. 595 .
34 .
ld .
" " On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Crocodilia 'Zool .
Soc. Trans vol. 11 , p. 263 .
35 .
ld .
" " Report on the Deyelopment of the Green Turtle 'Challenger Reports ( Zoology ) , ' vol. 1 .
36 .
Id. " " On the Structure and Development of the Skull of Birds 'Linn .
Soc. Trans 2nd Ser. ( Zool. ) , vol. 1 , p. 99 .
37 .
ld .
" " On the Morphology of Birds 'Roy . .
Proc vol. 42 , p. 52 .
38 .
ld .
On the Vertebral Chain of Birds .
Soc. Proc vol. 43 , p. 465 .
39 .
ld .
" " On the Remnants or Vestiges of Amphibian and Reptilian Structures found in the Skull of Birds 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , p. 40 .
ld .
" " On Secondary Carpals , Metacarpals , and Digital Rays in the Wings of existing Carinate Birds 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 43 , p. 322 .
41 . .
" " On the Structure and Development of the Wing in the Commcn Fowl ' Phil. Trans , vol. 179 ( 1888 ) , p. 385 .
42 .
ld .
" " On the Presence of Claws in the Wings of the Ratitae 'Ibis , ' 5th Series , vol. 6 , p. 43 .
ld .
'On the Structure and Development of the Shoulder Girdle and Sternum .
' Ray Society .
1868 .
44 .
PARKER , W. K. , and BETTANY , G. T. 'Morphology of the Skull .
' London , 1877 .
45 .
POTTS , T. H. " " Notes on a New Species of Apteryx 'New Zealand Inst. Trans. , vol. 4 ( 1871 ) , p. 204 .
46 .
ld .
" " On the Birds of New Zealand 'New Zealand Inst. Trans vol. 5 ( 1872 ) , p. 187 .
47 .
CKHARD , H. " " Das gegenseitige Verhaltniss der Chorda , Hypophysis , und des mittleren Schadelbalkens bei Haifischembryonen , \amp ; c 'Morphol .
Jahrb 6 ( 1880 ) , p. 535 .
48 .
ROLLESTON , G. , and JACKSON , W. H. 'Forms of Animal Life .
' 2nd .
Ed. Oxford , .
responsible for the figures in the actual ( so.called Second Preliminary Note , which have the sizes inoorrectly given .
Reports ( Zoology ) , ' vol. 7 .
52 .
WIEDERSHEIM , R. 'Lehrbuch der Vergl .
Anatomy .
' .
Aufl .
Jena , 1886 .
53 .
ld .
'Grundriss der Vergl .
Anatomy .
' .
Aufl .
1888 .
54 .
WRAy , R. S. " " On Some Points in the Morphology of the Wings of Birds ' Zool. Soc. Proc 1887 , p. 343 .
55 .
YARRELL , W. " " Description , \amp ; c. , of the Apteryx of Shaw 'Zool .
Soc. Trans vol. 1 , p. 71 .
DESCRIPTION 0F PLATES 8-19 .
The scale of enlargement is given on the figures themselves .
In plates dealing with the skeleton cartilaginous parts are coloured green and cartilage bones brown ; membrane bones are uncoloured or ( in sections ) black ; prochondral tissue is darkly shaded .
A. EXTERNAL FORM .
References .
All .
Al]antois ( in outline ) .
Au .
Auditory sac .
Claw .
Terminal claw of wing .
Clo .
Ap. Cloacal aperture .
Cl. 1-4 .
Visceral clefts .
Cubit .
1 .
First cubital remex .
Dien .
Diencephal .
Dors .
Pt. Dorsal pteryla .
Fe7n.Pt .
Femoral pteryla .
F.L. Fore-limb . .
Fronto-nasal process .
H.L. Hind-limb .
Et .
Heart .
Hum. Pt. Humeral pteryla .
Hy .
Hyoid fold .
Inf. Al.Apt .
Lower wing space .
Lat. Apt .
Lateral apterium .
Mesen .
Mesencephal .
Mes .
Some .
16 and 28 .
16th and 28th mesoblastic somites .
Meten .
Metencephal .
Mid.dig .
blid-digital remex .
Mn .
Mandibular fold .
Mtcp .
Metacarpal remiges . .
Mouth . .
External naaal aperture . .
Notochord .
Operc .
Operculum .
Prosen .
Prosencephal .
Pr .
Ptgm .
Pre-pataginm .
Pt. Pt.qm .
Post-patagium .
S.Mx . .
Superior maxillary process .
Some .Stk .
Somatic stalk .
Tect.maj .
Tectrices majores . .
Uropyginm .
Vent .
Apt .
Ventral apterium .
1-4 .
Digits of manus or pes .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
\ldquo ; , , , feather , showing curved bCaud 1bulleri.\ldquo ; uter)nner)\ldquo ; , ' , from teeth sxposed b\ldquo ; mbryo fside .
Heart exposed bfbody w\ldquo ; , ' , B. SECTIONS 0F STAGES , AND C. References .
Au .
Auditory capsule .
Au .
C. Auditory capsule .
Aula .
Cavity of basi-cerebrum .
Bas .
Art .
Basilar artery .
Bas .
Crb .
Basi-cerebrum , or median portion of secondary fore-brain .
Bs .
Opt .
Basi-opticus , or ventral portion of mid-brain .
Br .
1-3 .
Branchial folds .
Cent. Rudiment of centrum .
Cl. 1-5 .
Visceral clefts .
Cl. Ap. Cloacal aperture .
Coel .
Coelome .
D.Ao .
Dorsal aorta .
Di .
Coo .
Diacoele ( 3rd ventricle ) .
Epen .
Epencephal ( cerebellum ) .
f. Fissnre between mesoblastic somites .
F.L. Fore.limb .
For .
Monro .
Foramen of MONRO .
Fr. Na.P .
Fronto-nasal process .
H.L. Hind-limb .
Hy .
Hyoid fold .
Inf. Infundibulum .
Int. Car .
Internal carotid .
Iter. .
Iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum .
Jug .
y. Jugular vein .
Mes.neph .
Mesonephros .
Lam.term .
Lamina terminalis .
Mn .
Mandibulal ' M.Pl .
Muscle plate .
Ms. coo .
Mesocoele ( cavity of mid-brain ) .
Mt .
coo .
Metacoele ( 4th icle ) .
Mth .
Mouth .
My .
Myelon .
Na .
Nasal sac .
Nch .
Notochord .
Nv .
3 , 5 , 10 .
Oculomotor , trigeminal , and vagus nerves .
Operc .
Operculum .
Opt .
coo .
Optocoele ( cavity of optic lobe ) .
Opten .
Optencephal ( optic lobc ) .
Opt .
vos .
Primary optic vesicle .
Pa. Ch. Parachordal plate .
Pin .
Pineal body .
Pr .
Ch. plate .
Pr .
Pin .
Divert .
Pre-pineal diverticulum .
Prs .
coo .
Prosocoele ( lateral ventricle ) .
Pty. Pituitary body .
S.Mx .
P. Superior maxillary Sp. Gn .
Spinal ganglion .
Tr. Trabecula .
V.Ao .
Ventral aorta .
3 .
C. GRAPHIC REPRESENTATIONS 0F RATE 0F GROWTH .
Diagram showing crowth ontire hfemur , crus , Diagram showing curves orowth ontire fbrachium , antebrachiumDiagram showing curves orowth ooracoidDiagram showing crowth ontire hrain cheDi rhowi trelative dimensions oarious rhird digit :anus wert , beak , expre.ssed aercentages oumndifferent sength oeing taken astandard , AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
References .
a. Process of ectoethmoid .
A.A. Trb .
Anteriol .
accessory turbinal .
a. bcr.fo .
Anterior basicranial fontanelle .
A. Trb .
Anterior turbinaI .
Al .
Sph .
Alisphenoid .
Ang .
Angular .
Ant. Hgh .
Antrum of HIGHMORE .
Ant. Na , Ant , erior nares .
Art .
Articular .
Are Arytenoid cartilage .
A.S. C. Anterior semicircular canal . .
Auditory capsule .
Bas .
Art .
Basilar arteiy .
B.Br .
Basibranchial .
B.Hy .
Basihyal .
B. Oc .
Basioccipital . .
Basipterygoid process .
b.ptg. .
Facet on pterygoid for articulation of ditto .
B.Sph .
Basisphenoid .
B.Tmp .
Basitemporal .
C.Br .
Cerato-branchial .
C.Hy .
Cerato.hyal .
Prochondral rudiment of ditto .
Cn.1 2 .
Internal and condyles of quadrate .
Col. Columella auris .
Cor. Coronary .
Cp .
Str. Corpus striatum .
cr.fa.c .
Craniofacial cavity . .
Dentary .
Dent .
' Fibrous rudiment of ditto .
Di .
coo .
Diacoele ( 3rd ventricle ) .
Dors.sell .
Dorsum selIae .
d.pr .
Descending process of nasal or of frontal .
E.Br .
Epibranchial .
1-5 .
The five regions of the ectoethmoid .
E.St .
Extra-stapedial .
Eth .
Pr .
Sph .
Ethmo-presphenoid bone .
Eus .
T. Eustachian tube or its bony canal .
Ex. Col. Extra.columelIa .
Ex.oc .
Exoccipital .
Ext. And .
M. External auditorv meatus .
flc.f .
Floccular fossa .
f.ov .
Fenestra ovalis .
Fr. Frontal .
f.rot .
Fenestra rotunda .
H.8.C .
Horizontal semicircular canal .
Int. Car .
Internal carotid or its foramen .
Inf. Infundibulum .
I. St. Infra-stapedial .
Ja .
C. JACOBSON'S cartilage .
Ju .
Jugal .
ju.pr .
Jugal process of maxilla .
Lac .
Lacrymal .
Lac .
D. Lacrymal duct .
Lac .
Gl .
Lacrymal gland .
lac,.for .
Lacrymal foramen .
m. bcr.fo .
Middle basicranial fontanelle .
JIck . .
MECKEL'S cartilage .
M.Eth .
Mesethmoid .
M.Ptcr .
Pterygoid muscle .
M. Temp. Temporal muscle .
JIth .
Mouth . .
Middle turbina ] . .
Maxilla .
Na .
Nasal .
n.a. Foramen for nutrient napr .
Nasal process of premaxilla or of frontal .
Na .
Trb .
Nch .
Notochord .
Nv .
I.-XII .
Cerebral nerves or their amina .
Nv . .
The three divisions of the tri- geminal or their foramina .
Nv . .
The two rami of the orbit , -nasal nerve . .
occipital condyle .
Oc.for .
occipital foramen .
Of.fos .
Olfactory fossa .
f.sac .
Olfactory sac .
Op. Ot .
Opisthotic .
orb . .
Orbital process of fronta ] or of quadrate .
Orb .
Sph .
Orbito-sphenoid .
o.sph. .
Orbito-sphenoid process of frontal . .
Otic process of quadrate .
Pa. Parietal .
Pa. Ch. Parachorda ] cartilage .
Pal .
pal. .
Palatine process of or of maxilla .
pu.oc.pr .
Paroccipitai process .
.bcr.fo .
Posberior basicranial ntanelle .
Pect .
Pecten . .
Premaxilla .
Fibrous rudiment of ditto .
pn.c .
Pneumatic cavity .
pn. .
Pnsumatic foramen .
Pr .
Ch. Prochordal cartilag.e . .
Prenasal cartilage .
Pr .
Ot .
Prootic .
.ot .
Facet on head of quadrate for ation with dil-to .
Prosen .
Prosencephal .
coo .
( lateral ventricle ) .
Pr .
esphenoid .
Paired moieties of ditto in Stage D. Pr . .
Pretemporal wings . .
Pterygoid .
l.udiment of ditto .
Pt. Na .
Posteriol .
nares .
P. .
Posterior turbinals .
Pty. body .
Pfy .
F ' .
Pituitary Pty.ped .
Pituitary pedicle . .
Quadrate .
Orbital of ditto . .
( ot.pr .
) .
Otic process of ditto . .
Facet for articulation of ditto on pterygoid or on quadrato-juga ] .
Ditto on prootic .
Ditto on alisphenoid .
Ditto on squamosal .
Qu .
Ju .
Quadrato-jugal .
Fibrous rudiment of ditto .
Bidge of parachordal .
Rhinen .
Rhinencephal .
Roast .
R , ostrnm .
S.Ang .
Supra-angular . .
Sclerotic .
S.Oc .
Supra-occipital .
S.orb . .
Superior orbital fontanelle . .
Splenial .
S.St .
Supra-stapedial .
Sq .
Squamosal .
Sq .
' Fibrous rudiment of ditto . .
Facet for ditto on head of quadrate .
tg.pr .
Tegminal process .
Thy .
Thyroid cartilage . .
Trabecula .
Trch .
Trachea .
Tyrnp . .
Tympanic cavity .
Tymp . .
Tympanic membrane .
V.A. .
Ventral accessory turbinal . .
Vomer . .
Transverse commissure between trabeculae , separating anterior and middle basicranial fontanelles . .
Dittobetweenparachordals , separating middle and posterior basicranial fontanelles .
zyg.pr .
Zygomatic process of squamosal .
Chondrocrani , AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
E. VERTEBRAL COLUMN AND RIBS .
References . .
Anterior zygapophysis .
capit .
Head of lib. c.chn .
Centrochondrite .
Cd .
Caudal vertebrae .
* Cor. Coracoid .
C.ost .
Centrosteite .
Cv .
Th. Rb .
Rib of cervico.thoracic vertebra .
diap .
Diapophysis .
Fe .
Femur .
Il .
Ilium .
int.cent .
Intercentrum .
int.vert .for .
Intervertebral foramen .
Iseh .
Ischium .
Lb .
Lumbar vertebrae .
Lb .
Sc. Lumbo-sacral vertebrae . .
Ligament .
My .
Myelon . .
Notochord .
n.c.su .
Neurocentral suture .
neur .
Neuroid .
n.ost .
Neurosteite .
n.sp .
Neural spine .
Oc . .
occipital condyle .
Od .
Odontoid .
parap .
Parapophysis .
pl. Pleuroid .
pl.chn .
Pleurochondrite .
pl.ost .
P]eurosteite .
pt.atl.int . .
Post-atlantal intercentrum .
pt.oc.int . .
, , occipital Pu .
Pubis . .
Pygostyle .
Sc. Sacral vertebrae . .
Scapula .
St. Sternum .
Th. Thoracic vertebrae .
tuberc .
TubercUe of rib . .
* These and the remaining verbebrae are numbered in order ; the numbers in brackets give the position in the entire series .
AND DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
References . .
lat.pr .
Anterior lateral process .
Cor. Coracoid .
Cor. gr. Coracoid groove .
Cv .
Th. Rb .
Cervico-thoracic rib .
fo .
Fontanelle .
Eu .
Humerus . .
Median ridgs or vestigial keel .
Pl.ost .
Pleuroseon .
post .
lafpr .
Posterior lateral process .
post.mel.pr .
, , median Scap .
Scapula .
St. Sternum .
Th. Rb .
, 1-4 .
Thoracic ribs . .
lTnc.inates .
eniowenioweni.\ldquo ; , with santerior ribs , \amp ; c. , left side G. THE rences . .
Acromial tuberosit acr.cor .
Acrocoracoid tuberosity .
oracoid .
Corfen .
Coracoid fenestra . .
Glenoid cavity . .
Procoracoid .
.cor.t .
Procoracoid pr.cor.hg .
, , ligameut .
Scap .
Scapula .
Sup.cor.for .
Supracoracoid foramen .
H. THE FORE-LIMB .
References . .
Alar claw .
Op. Carpale .
Cp .
Micp .
Carpo-metacarpus .
di , st. Disbale .
Hudist..1-3 .
The separate distalia of early stages .
Humerus .
Mtcp .
1-3 .
he three metacarpals .
Fhal .
2 ' , 2 and 2 The phalanges of the second digit .
Phal .
3 .
Phalanx of third digit . .
Radius . .
Radiale .
ra.dist .
Radio-distale . .
Ulnare .
AND DEEVELOPEEN OF APTERYX .
I. THE . .
erences .
actb .
Acetabulum .
Ant.trch .
Antitrochanter .
Isch .
Ischium .
Pect. .
Pectineal process .
Pu .
Pubis .
\ldquo ; , ' , ' K. THE References .
\ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L \ldquo ; , ,susEFG L ascpr .
Ascemding process of tibiale .
eent .
1 .
Preaxial centrale .
cent. 2 .
Postaxial dist. Distale .
Fe , .
Femur .
ascpr .
Ascending process of tibiale .
eent .
1 .
Preaxial centrale .
cent. 2 .
Postaxial dist. Distale .
Fe , .
Femur .
ascpr .
Ascending process of tibiale .
eent .
1 .
Preaxial centrale .
cent. 2 .
Postaxial dist. Distale .
Fe , .
Femur .
ascpr .
Ascending process of tibiale .
eent .
1 .
Preaxial centrale .
cent. 2 .
Postaxial dist. Distale .
Fe , .
Femur .
ascpr .
Ascending process of tibiale .
eent .
1 .
Preaxial centrale .
cent. 2 .
Postaxial dist. Distale .
Fe , .
Femur .
ascpr .
Ascending process of tibiale .
eent .
1 .
Preaxial centrale .
cent. 2 .
Postaxial dist. Distale .
Fe , .
Femur .
Fib .
Fibula .
fib .
Fibulare .
Mt.tsl .
1-5 .
Metatarsals . .
Tibia . .
Tibiale .
AND OF APTERyX .
Referemces .
ancon .
M. anconeus .
biceps .
M. biceps achii .
brach.ant .
M. brachialis anticus .
brach .
int..access .
M. brachialis anticus accessorius .
Cor. .
M. coraco-brachialis superior .
Cor. brach.inf .
M. coraco-brachialis inferior .
Cp .
Micp .
Carpo-metacarpus .
ext.carp .
ul .
M. extensor carpi ulnaris .
ext .
ind.prop .
M. extensor indicis proprius .
ext.metacarp.rad.brev .
M. extensor radiatis brevis .
flex.carp.rad .
M. flexor carpi radialis .
flex.dig.prof .
M. flexor digitorum profundus .
ancon .
M. anconeus .
biceps .
M. biceps achii .
brach.ant .
M. brachialis anticus .
brach .
int..access .
M. brachialis anticus accessorius . .
M. coraco-brachialis superior . .
brach.inf .
M. coraco-brachialis inferior .
Cp .
Micp .
Carpo-metacarpus .
ext.carp . .
M. extensor carpi ulnaris .
ext .
.prop .
M. extensor indicis proprius .
ext.metacarp.rad.brev .
M. extensor radiatis brevis .
flex.carp.rad .
M. flexor carpi radialis .
flex.dig.prof .
M. flexor digitorum profundus .
ancon .
M. anconeus .
biceps .
M. biceps achii .
brach.ant .
M. brachialis anticus .
brach .
int..access .
M. brachialis anticus accessorius . .
M. coraco-brachialis superior . .
brach.inf .
M. coraco-brachialis inferior .
Cp .
Micp .
Carpo-metacarpus .
ext.carp . .
M. extensor carpi ulnaris .
ext .
.prop .
M. extensor indicis proprius .
ext.metacarp.rad.brev .
M. extensor radiatis brevis .
flex.carp.rad .
M. flexor carpi radialis .
flex.dig.prof .
M. flexor digitorum profundus .
ancon .
M. anconeus .
biceps .
M. biceps achii .
brach.ant .
M. brachialis anticus .
brach .
int..access .
M. brachialis anticus accessorius . .
M. coraco-brachialis superior . .
brach.inf .
M. coraco-brachialis inferior .
Cp .
Micp .
Carpo-metacarpus .
ext.carp . .
M. extensor carpi ulnaris .
ext .
.prop .
M. extensor indicis proprius .
ext.metacarp.rad.brev .
M. extensor radiatis brevis .
flex.carp.rad .
M. flexor carpi radialis .
flex.dig.prof .
M. flexor digitorum profundus .
flex.prof .
int .
M. flexor profundus internus gallinaceorum . .
Humerus .
inferos.dors .
M. interosseus dorsalis .
pect . .
M. pectoralis major .
pron .
M. pronator . .
Radius .
Subcl .
M. subclavius .
supin .
M. supinator .
teres .
M. triceps .
M. triceps brachii . .
Ulna .
of the shoulder and , ,wing , dorsal aspect 294 fore-arm and ) almaraspec.t dorsal 296 , , , , , .
, .
, , palmar M. THE BRAIN AND References .
ant.corn. .
Anterior commissure .
opt .
chs .
Optic chiasma .
corp.call .
Corpus callosum .
wrp.stri .
Corpus striatum .
Bs.opt .
Basiopticus .
coo .
Diacoele ( third ventricle ) .
chplxDien. .
Choroid plexus .
tPinOpt.optic 1optic vOptic , ommissu.reoptic voptic tcerebrum .
ep .
coo .
( cerebelIar ventricle ) .
Epen .
Epencephal ( cerebellum ) .
floc .
Flocculus . .
Foramen of MONRO .
post . .
Posterior commlssure .
inf .
Infundibulum .
Prosen .
Prosencephal cerebral .
lam.term .
Lamina terminalis .
.Pin .
Divertic .
Prepineal diverticulum .
Meten .
Metencephal oblongata ) .
Mesencephal .
oblongata ) .
Pituitary bfactory 1 ) .
Ms. coo .
\amp ; iter .
Mesocoele .
mt .
coo .
fourth .
vel.int .
Velum interpositum .
Vieus .
Valve of Phil. .
B.Plate 5 .

