On the Changes produced in Atmospheric Air , and Oxygen Gas , by Respiration .
By W. Allen , Esq. F.R.S. and W. H. Pepys , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 16 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 249 .
] The importance of a process so essential to life having excited proportional curiosity in philosophers from the earliest ages , the authors of the present communication take occasion to trace the history of their subject .
Beginning with the conjectures of Hippocrates and of Plato , they proceed to notice the first accurate notions of Boyle and of Mayow , which were neglected and forgotten till the time when Priestley and Scheele first distinguished the two constituent parts of the atmosphere from each other .
x The next discovery of importance on respiration , is that by Dr. Black , who observed the formation of carbonic acid , Succeeding labourers in the same field of inquiry , it is observed , are too numerous for justice to be done to every one ; and the principal information collected from them relates to measures of quantity .
Dr. Goodwin estimated the residual gas in the lungs , after expiration , at 109 inches .
Dr. Menzies found the absorption of oxygen nearly 52,000 inches in twenty-four hours .
Lavoisier and Seguin , from a series of elaborate experiments , concluded that more oxygen was absorbed than evolved , as carbonic acid , and thence imagined that water was formed by the union of oxygen and hydrogen in the lungs .
Their experiments showed the consumption of oxygen to be greater in a colder atmosphere , and to be increased also during digestion and during exercise ; and they estimated the average consumption at 41,000 inches per day .
The quantity of carbonic acid formed , was first estimated by Mr. Davy .
The authors conceiving that many important points are not yet satisfactorily settled , undertake to examine in the present communication,1 .
The average quantity of oxygen converted into carbonic acid in ordinary respiration .
2 .
Whether oxygen is absorbed by the blood .
3 .
Whether azote is absorbed , and whether hydrogen or other gas is evolved .
On account of the impossibility of knowing , with precision , the quantity of gas remaining in the lungs after expiration , and the consequent difficulty of deciding whether any gas is absorbed in the act of respiration , it was determined to perform the experiments on such large quantities of air at a time , that the error arising from residual gas might bear a small proportion to the whole quantity .
The apparatus for the first five experiments consisted of two gasometers , one of which contained 4200 inches of atmospheric air over water , from which the inspirations were made , and the other being filled with mercury , was employed to receive the gas after expiration ; but as its capacity was only 300 inches , it was necessary for the operator to retain his breath for about fifteen or twenty seconds , till the quantity expired had been read off , noted , and expelled from the gasometer ; after which the same process was repeated about twelve times .
The quantity of inspired air having now been read off from the water gasometer , the quantity expired was ascertained by casting up the amount of the successive fillings of the mercurial gasometer .
From an average of these five experiments , there appeared to be a diminution of twenty inches in 3700 .
But the authors are inclined to ascribe this difference to the difficulty above mentioned , of bringing the lungs to the same state of contraction after the experiment as they had been before .
In determining the quality of the expired gas , lime-water was first employed for the absorption of carbonic acid , and then a solution of green sulphate of iron , saturated with nitrous gas , to determine the quantity of oxygen that remained .
In the sixth experiment there were found 9 carbonic acid , and 9 oxygen ; together 18 .
In the seventh experiment there were found 8 carbonic acid , 102 oxygen ; together 181 .
In the eighth experiment there were found 64 carbonic acid , and 124 oxygen ; together 19 .
In the ninth experiment there were found 7 carbonic acid , and 11 oxygen ; together 18 .
So that as one measure of carbonic acid contains just an equal measure of oxygen , the apparent diminution of oxygen in these experiments is 24 per cent. In the subsequent experiments two mercurial gasometers were employed , so that the hurry of measuring the gas , and inconvenience of retaining the breath , were avoided , and the respiration was consequently more natural throughout the whole of each experiment .
Nevertheless , the result of the ten experiments still showed an apparent diminution of 1 per cent. But the eleventh experiment showed no diminution , and is considered by the authors as a standard experiment .
From this the quantity of oxygen consumed , and of carbonic acid formed in a minute , is calculated to be 264 inches , and hence the quantity of solid carbon given off by the lungs , in twentyfour hours , is computed at 10 ounces troy .
The person who made these experiments breathes about nineteen times in a minute , and takes about 164 ?
cubic inches of air at each natural inspiration .
In the twelfth experiment the same quantity of air was breathed from one of the mercurial gasometers to the other repeatedly during three minutes , and was then found to contain 9g carbonic acid , 54 oxygen , and 85 azote per cent. ; so that six parts , in 100 of oxygen , seemed to have disappeared , and some other gas , not absorbed by water , was apparently given off from the lungs .
The results of the fourteenth experiment were similar , and more remarkable , as the respiration of the same air was continued for a greater length of time : 100 parts contained 10 carbonic acid , 4 oxygen , and 86 azote ; so that in this instance there appeared a loss of 7 oxygen , and an equal increase of azote , or of some other gas not absorbable by water .
By careful examination , the authors are satisfied that no other gas is present in the residuum but azote ; that the azote itself , though apparently in greater proportion , is in fact unaltered ; and that the difference arises solely from diminution of oxygen when respiration is painfully protracted .
By the respiration of another person , whose chest was of greater capacity , the same quantity of air as by the former was taken in just one half the time ; but nevertheless very nearly the same proportion of it was found converted into carbonic acid .
In the succeeding experiment nearly 10,000 cubic inches of air x were breathed .
The quantity of carbonic acid was in this case 8 , the remaining oxygen 13 , and the azote 79 per cent. , as before inspiration .
The average consumption of oxygen , and formation of carbonic acid , being 32-3 inches in a minute .
The deficiency in the quantity expired was so small , that the authors were satisfied that none was absorbed .
But in the two following experiments , which were each performed on upwards of 3000 inches of oxygen gas , the deficiency was much greater , and there did appear to have been absorption of 58 in one experiment , and of 67 in the other .
The formation of carbonic acid was , in these cases , far more rapid , being at the rate of 37I inches in a minute .
From the quantity of air which had necessarily remained in the lungs before the experiments , a quantity of azote was unavoidably mixed with the inspired oxygen , and emitted with it , in the proportion at first of 25 per cent. , but varying in the successive portions , removed for trial , till the proportion was at last reduced to 5I per cent. From these data , the authors endeavour to estimate the quantity of air that had been in the lungs at the beginning of each experiment .
By estimation from the former experiment on oxygen , the residue in the lungs appeared to have been 140I ; but in the second , it was found that as much as 177 of mere azote had been expired , and hence that the lungs , in this instance , had contained as much as 226 inches of air , unless the proportion of azote in the residual gas was greater than usual , in consequence of previous fatigue .
The inferences drawn by the authors from these experiments are , 1 .
That the quantity of carbonic acid emitted is equal in bulk to the oxygen consumed , and consequently that no water is formed in respiration by union of oxygen and hydrogen .
2 .
That carbonic acid , in expired air , varies from 8 to 10 per cent. 3 .
That about 1800 inches of carbonic acid are formed in twentyfour hours , containing about 10ounces troy of solid carbon .
4 .
That when air is breathed several times over , a portion of oxygen is absorbed .
5 .
More carbonic acid is formed from respiration of oxygen , than in breathing atmospheric air .
6 .
That the subject of these experiments takes about 17 inches at each inspiration , and makes about 19 inspirations in a minute .
7 .
No hydrogen or other gas appears to be evolved during respiration .
8 .
There appears to be no alteration in the quantity of azote , since the average diminution of six parts in 1000 is more likely to arise from incomplete exhaustion of the lungs after the experiment .
9 .
The residual gas in the lungs , after forced expiration , appears about 140 cubic inches .

