XVI .
" Note on the Minute Structure of the Grey Matter of the Convolutions of the Brain of Man , the Sheep , Cat , and .
Dog .
" By LIONEL S. BEALE , M.B. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received June 18 , 1863 .
By a new process of investigation , I have succeeded in demonstrating the connexion between the nerve-cells and fibres in the grey matter of the convolutions and in other parts of the mammalian brain , and have followed individual fibres for a much greater distance 1863 .
] 671 than can be effected in sections prepared oy other processes of investigation which I have tried .
In many instances one thick fibre is continuous with one or other extremity of the " cell , " while from its opposite portion from three to six or eight thinner fibres diverge in a direction onwards and outwards .
This arrangement is particularly distinct in the grey matter of the sheep 's brain .
The broad extremities of the cells for the most part are directed towards the white matter of the hemisphere .
The cells have no cell-wall ; and the matter of which the fibre is composed is continuous with that of which the outer part of the " cell " consists .
The so-called " granular matter , " or " granular matrix , " which is described as existing in considerable quantity in the grey matter around the cells and between the fibres , results , I think from the disintegration of the finest nerve-fibres and cells ; for in the specimens I have prepared , the tissue intervening between the cells is seen to be composed entirely of nerve-fibres .
The majority of these fibres are not more than the oo th of an inch in diameter ; and many fibres , whose continuity with cells can be demonstrated , are as fine as this at a distance of not more than I o1th of an inch from their origin .
The slightest displacement of the thin glass covering the specimen will often destroy these delicate fibres , and nothing but amorphous granular matter results .
The apparently free nuclei in the more superficial part of the grey matter are really the nuclei of cells , with every one of which fibres are in connexion .
There are no cells with less than two fibres in continuity with them .
In the brain of a young animal it is easy to find many cells connected together by broad bands of fibres , which vary much in length and thickness ; but in the adult a positive connexion between two contiguous cells can be demonstrated only here and there .
As the cells separate further and further from each other , the fibre becomes so thin and long , and it changes the plane in which it ramifies to such an extent , that it cannot often be traced for any great distance .
The fibres are formed as the cells , originally continuous , become separated further and further from each other .
In all parts of the nervous system the so-called " cells " ( often termed " nuclei " in peripheral parts ) are structurally continuous with each other through the fibres .
67 The fibres are not offsets or outgrowths which grow centrifugally from different adjacent cells and then join or anastomose with one another , but they result , on the other hand , from the moving away from each other of cells which were originally continuous ; so that a very thin fibre of o-1 th of an inch in diameter , and perhaps three or four thousandths of an inch in length , represents the broader and shorter bands or cords of communication which existed at an earlier period of development , when the cells were much closer together .
It has been stated that nerve-cells do not exist in the white matter ; but numerous cells are present in this tissue for the distance of perhaps the sixth of an inch or more beneath the grey matter .
I do not propose now to enter into detail ; the arrangement of the cells and fibres will be accurately represented in drawings ; for it is not possible for me to convey an accurate idea of the structure of this elaborate tissue by description .
I may be permitted to offer the following general conclusions resulting from observations upon the grey matter of the convolutions of man , the sheep , cat , and dog .
1 .
The numerous nerve-cells of the grey matter are all connected or give origin to at least two fibres .
2 .
These fibres , wide near their origin , gradually diminish in thickness until they are not more than the th of an inch in diameter .
3 .
The granular matter said to be so abundant in the grey matter consists of fine and very delicate nerve-fibres , which are easily broken down when thin sections of this soft tissue are submitted to microscopical examination without special preparation .
4 .
It is probable that the cells of the grey matter of the convolutions are connected together ; but in the adult the cells are not often connected with those cells which are situated nearest to them .
5 .
There is no reason for supposing that the nerve-cells , here or elsewhere , influence any nerve-fibres save those which are structurally continuous with them .
1863 , ] 673

