450 Prof. J. C. Bose .
O the Periodicity in II .
" The Electrical Effects of Light upon Green Leaves .
( Preliminary Communication .
) " By A. D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. III .
" The Nature and Origin of the Poison of Egyptian Lotus ( Lotus arabicus ) " By W. R. Dunstan , F.R.S. , and T. A. Henry .
IV .
" The Exact Histological Localisation of the Visual Area of the Human Cerebral Cortex .
" By Dr. J. S. Bolton .
Communicated by Dr. Mott , F.R.S. V. " Data for the Problem of Evolution in Man .
V.\#151 ; On the Correlation between Duration of Life and the Number of Offspring .
" By Miss M. Beeton , G. U. Yule , and K. Pearson , F.R.S. VI .
" The Diffusion of Ions produced in Air by the Action of a Radioactive Substance , Ultra-violet Light , and Point Discharges .
" By J. S. Townsend .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. VII .
" On an Artificial Retina , and on a Theory of Vision .
" By Professor J. Chunder Bose , F.R.S. Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. " On the Periodicity in the Electric Touch of Chemical Elements .
Preliminary Notice .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Professor of Physical Science , Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received December 6 , 1899 , \#151 ; Read January 25 , 1900 .
In my previous communication* an account was given of the contact sensitiveness of elementary substances to electric radiation .
It was shown that though many substances exhibit a diminution of contact resistance , there are others , of which potassium may be taken as an example , which show an increase of resistance\#151 ; an increase which , in some cases , lasts during the impact of electric waves , the sensitive element quickly recovering on the cessation of radiation .
There are thus produced two opposite effects , which depend on the nature of sensitive substance .
As the normal action of radiation is to produce opposite effects on the two classes of substances , it would be advisable , in order to avoid confusion , to use a simple term to indicate these actions , and to distinguish them from one another , by calling the one positive and the other negative .
The sensitiveness is found confined to the outer surfaces in contact , and not extended to the substratum ; I have there* " On a Self-recovering Coherer , and the Study of Cohering Action of different Metals , " ' Roy .
So .
Proc. , ' vol. 65 .

