Observations and Remalrks on the Figure , the Climate , and the Atmosphere of Saturn , and its Ring .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read June 26 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trsans .
1806 , p. 455 .
] The observations made by Dr. Herschel last year , on the figure of Saturn , having drawn the attention of astronomers to the : subject , a further investigation of it appeared to him to be necessary .
Those , he says , who compare his former figures of the planet ( in which the particular shape of the body was not meant to be rcl)resented , ) with that annexed to his last paper , and wonder at the difference between them , have not attended to the measures he had given of the equatorial and polar diameters of it ; these , as established in 1789 , are the same as in his last figure , wlicll differs only in having the flattening at the pole a little more extended on both sides ; and as his attention , in 1789 , was entirely taken up with an examination of the .
two principal diameters of the planet , it is not , he thinks , extraordinary that the singularity of its shape should then have been overlooked by him .
After some observations on the magnifying powers necessary to be used in observing the figure of Saturn , lr .
Herschel proceeds to relate the observations made by him , for that purpose , in the months of April , May , and the beginning of June , of the present year .
He first , however , gives an observation made in the year 1788 , from wlicli it appears , that he had then observed the shape of Saturn not to b)e spheroidical ( like that of Mars or Jupiter ) , but much flattened at the poles , and a little flattened at the equator .
The observations made this year by our author , agree with those made last year , in establishing , that the flattening at the poles of Saturn is more extensive than it is in Jupiter : also that the curvature in high latitudes is greater than in the last-mentioned planet ; but , on the contrary , the curvature at the equator is rather less in Saturn than it is in Jupiter .
In the observation of May 16 , of the present year , the greatest curvature in the disc of Saturn appeared to be at the latitude of about 40 ? .
Upon the whole , the figure of Saturn may , Dr. Herschel says , be called a spheroid , while that of Jupiter may be called an ellipsoid .
Our author now proceeds to notice some observations he has made on the periodical changes in the colour of the polar regions of Saturn .
From those made in the years 1793 , 1794 , and 1796 , when the south pole of the planet had been long exposed to the influence of the sun , it appeared that the regions about that pole had lost their former whiteness ; and that the whiteness of the nortliern hemisphere was increased .
T'hose made in the present year , when the north pole of Saturn is exposed to the sun , show that its regrions have lost much of their brightness ; while those about the south pole have regained their former colour , and are brighter , and whiter , than the equatorial parts .
Rtespecting the atmosphere of Saturn , Dr. Herschel observes , that the brightness remaining on the north polar regions is not uniform , but is tinged with large dusky spaces , of a cloudy atmospheric appearance .
From which , and the fore-mentioned changes of colour at the polar regions , added to the changes he has formerly observed in the belts , we have , he thinks , sufficient reason to infer the existence of a Saturnian atmosphere .

