333 1893 .
] Effect of Rontgen Rays on Contact .
about 2S cm .
, on the right-hand side of this line AB , is somewhat lighter than the space between it and the border about 10 cm .
on its left .
I find by careful measurement that the line AB is , at its end next A , 101*0 mm. from the last-mentioned border , and at a quarter of its length below B is 100*3 mm. from the same border .
Corresponding measurements by the same eye and hand on another print of the same .primary photograph , in which the line AB is scarcely visible , gave for its distance from the border at the end next A , 101*1 mm. From -these measurements , and from the appearance of the print accompanying this note , I am convinced that there is a real difference on the two sides of a sharp boundary line AB which , as I am informed by Lord Blytbswood , corresponds to the boundary between two mirrors of speculum-metal which were placed together in his \#166 ; experiment .
He promises further experiments with pieces of lead placed on the speculum-metal mirror .
He has already tried experiments with pieces of paper and pasteboard placed on it ; they show nothing on the photograph .
V. " On the Effect of the Rontgen X Rays on the Contact Electricity of Metals .
" By .Tames R ; Erskine Murray , B.Sc. , 1851 Exhibition Scholar , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 3 , 1896 .
S 1 .
The experiments described in this communication were made in the Cavendish Laboratory of the University of Cambridge , at Professor J. J. Thomson 's suggestion , in order to find whether the contact potential of a pair of plates of different metals is in any way affected by the passage of the Rontgen " X " rays between the plates .
S 2 .
The vacuum bulb and induction coil for the production of the rays were enclosed in a box lined with metal , so that the plates and the apparatus used in measuring their contact potential difference should be screened from any direct electrical disturbances .
At one side of the box there was a circular hole of about 3 cm .
in diameter .
The vacuum bulb was placed just inside this hole , and directed so that the rays should stream out through it in a direction perpendicular to the side of the box In some experiments this hole was closed by a tinfoil screen , which allowed a large proportion of the rays to pass out while shutting in ordinary electrical disturbances .
The plates whose contact potential difference was to be measured were placed at a short distance outside the box , in such a position that the rays could fall on them .
334 Mr. J. R. E. Murray .
On Effect of Rontgen [ Mar. 19 , S 3 .
The diagram given below shows a plan of the principal parts , of the apparatus , but omits the insulating supports and the subsidiary apparatus used in determining the contact potential by Lord Kelvin 's null method .
It- is drawn roughly to scale , so as to show the relative dimensions and positions of the various parts .
A. Tinfoil plate .
B. Zinc plate , supported by a brass rod , which slides through the brasscollar C. I ) .
Quadrant electrometer .
E. Vacuum tube .
F. Negative electrode of tube .
Q- .
Induction coil .
H , H. Wires connecting house battery to induction coil .
J. Tinfoil screen\#151 ; over the hole from which the rays issued\#151 ; used in some experiments .
K. Wooden box lined with sheet zinc .
S 4 .
To measure their contact potential , I used the null method described by Lord Kelvin in his paper given to the British Association in 1880 .
I shall not describe this method in detail in the present communication , but may mention that the value of the contact potential is found by measuring the amount of the counter potential !
which has to be applied to the pair of plates to reduce the potential difference between their opposing surfaces to zero .
The counter potential introduced to effect this annulment must obviously be equal and opposite to their contact potential difference .
Hence the numerical value of the iatter is simply that of the applied counter potential , but is of opposite sign .
S 5 .
The plates were of zinc and tinfoil , the latter being mounted on thin ebonite to keep it flat .
They were placed parallel to one another at a small distance apart , so that the rays fell perpendicularly on the back of the tinfoil plate , passed through it and the airspace between them , and were absorbed by the zinc .
The tinfoil plate was insulated and connected to the insulated quadrants of a Kelvin quadrant electrometer .
The zinc was uninsulated , and was connected to the unin1893 .
] X Rays on the Contact Electricity of Metals .
sulated quadrants of the electrometer .
This plate is movable in a direction perpendicular to its plane , and can thus be drawn away from the tinfoil .
If there is any electric potential difference between the opposing surfaces of the two plates , further separation causes a change in it which , reacting on the electrometer , deflects it .
S 6 .
When everything was in position , before starting the rays I measured the contact potential of the plates by the method mentioned above , and found it to be -f 044 volt , the zinc being positive to the tinfoil .
The rays were now turned on , so as to pass through the tinfoil plate on to the zinc .
The contact potential , measured while the rays were passing , was about + 043 volt . .
But before the plates could be separated to see whether the counter potential applied had annulled the contact potential or not , the charge leaked away as if the insulation of the tinfoil plate were bad .
Also I observed that when the plates were not in connexion with one another , but only with the electrometer , they seemed to act as though they were connected together by a bad conductor or an electrolyte .
S 7 .
The X rays were now turned on so as to pass perpendicularly through the tinfoil plate on to the zinc .
In a few minutes the deflection indicated \#151 ; 0'50 volt .
and remained steady there for several minutes .
While in this condition I separated the plates .
The deflection increased by a small amount , showing that the electrolytic power of the air while the rays are passing through it had somewhat more than counterbalanced the contact potential of the plates , and had established a slight difference of potential in the direction opposite to that which exists between the surfaces of the plates when connected metallically in air .
This was confirmed by a measurement , made immediately after , by the null method , which gave + 044 volt for the potential difference between the plates ; the rays not being on at the time .
S 8 .
In the experiments described above , the rays had fallen pei*-pendicularly on the plates , passing through the tinfoil ( see diagram ) .
I now placed them so that the rays should pass between them in a direction approximately parallel to their surfaces .
On breaking the metallic connexion between the plates and turning on the rays the .electrometer rose to \#151 ; 039 volt , 336 Mr. J. R. E. Murray .
On the Effect of Rdntgen [ Mar. 19y and remained steady there .
Separating the plates produced no further deflection , which shows that the contact potential difference between the surfaces of the plates has been reduced to zero .
This is confirmed by the measurement , made by the null method , of their contact potential , which is now + 039 volt .
S 9 .
In the above experiment the plates were at about one centimetre apart .
I now increased the distance between them to two , then to five , and then to ten centimetres ; but in spite of the fact that in the last case the rays must have passed almost entirely through the air between the plates without striking on their surfaces , the electrometer always crept up from zero to \#151 ; 039 volt in a minute or two , and remained almost steady at that value . .
S 10 .
In the above experiments there was no screen between the vacuum bulb and the ebonite back of the tinfoil plate .
To make sure that none of the effects observed were due to ordinary electrical disturbances I now placed a piece of tinfoil , in connexion with the metal lining of the box containing bulb and coil , over the hole in the box from which the rays issued .
With the plates parallel to the rays-and at about one centimetre apart the electrometer rose , while the rays were on , from zero to \#151 ; 0'39 volt in two minutes and remained steady there .
This shows that the effects above described are due to the new rays , which can pass with ease through tinfoil , and not to the more ordinary forms of electric radiation .
S 11 .
In order to find whether these phenomena were strictly comparable with the results which Lord Kelvin had got many years ago by connecting the plates through an electrolyte , I made several experiments in which connexion was made by a drop of acidulated water .
Before doing so , however , I measured their potential difference by the null method and found it to be + 057 volt .
This variation from previous determinations is due no doubt to the influence of the atmosphere in tarnishing the plates .
It is much less than the changes , due to that cause , which I have often found in other experiments on contact electricity .
I now joined the plates by a drop of acidulated water while they were in connexion with the electrometer only .
The deflection at once rose from zero to \#151 ; 054 volt .
I now separated the plates , but this did not cause any notable change in the deflection , though it tended slightly in the direction which indicated that the contact potential of the plates had not been 181)6 .
] X Hays on the Contact Electricity of Metals .
quite balanced by the electrolytic action .
This is confirmed by the difference between 0'57 and \#151 ; 0*54 given above .
After a short while the deflection fell to \#151 ; 0*48 volt , which is nearly the value found previously for untarnished zinc and tinfoil in air , showing that the acidulated water has , in all probability , removed the tarnish , and is now balancing the contact potential between clean surfaces of the metals .
The water was now removed , and the contact potential measured by the null method as before .
It is still + 0'57 volt , for , of course , by far the greater part of the surfaces of the plates is still tarnished as before .
In another experiment with a drop of acidulated water between the plates , I found that the contact potential was more than counter-balanced by the electrolytic action .
This corresponds to the action of the rays mentioned in S 7 .
S 12 .
It now occurred to me , that perhaps the electrolytic connexion established between the plates when the rays were passing might be through the insulating supports of the tinfoil plate , and not through the air , as I had hitherto supposed .
To test the truth of this idea , several variations were made in the arrangements , all with a view to place the insulators in such a position that the rays could not reach them .
First , I placed a screen of sheet zinc , with a hole in the middle of it , between the tinfoil plate and the hole in the box , from which the rays issue , so that the rays from the negative electrode of the vacuum bulb could fall only on the tinfoil plate and not on its insulating supports .
These , by the way , consisted of pieces of good red sealing-wax , and , under ordinary conditions , were excellent insulators .
When the rays were started the electrometer moved from zero to a position which indicated a difference of potential as great as or greater than any which had been previously observed .
This shows that the electrolytic connexion had not been at all affected by screening the solid insulators .
This experiment was repeated several times , and in every case the result was the same .
Still further confirmation of the aerial nature of the connexion was obtained by a great alteration in he length and position of the insulating support .
Instead of three short arches of sealing-wax , each made of one stick about 6 inches long , I used one tall one fully 12 inches high ; one leg was attached to the wooden framework on which the uninsulated zinc plate was mounted , and the other , which was somewhat longer , held the tinfoil plate .
The new insulator was thus one piece , about 24 inches long , of sealing-wax , with the greater part far removed from the rays , instead of six pieces each 3 inches long .
A number of experiments were made with 338 Effect of Rontgen 's Rays on Cloudy Condensation .
[ Mar. 19 this arrangement .
In all of them the potential varied under the influence of the rays by an amount similar in direction and magnitude to that previously observed .
S 13 .
I have observed that the activity of the vacuum bulb seems to determine , to some extent , the potential difference observed on the electrometer ; that is to say , if the rays are very weak and unsteady ( as judged by the fluorescence of the vacuum bulb ) they do not make the air sufficiently electrolytic to counterbalance the contact potential difference between the surfaces of the plates .
Thus , when the bulb is not fluorescing brightly and steadily , one gets results which are uncertain and perplexing .
But these appear to give place in all cases to more definite values whenever the rays are strong and steady .
S 14 .
The conclusions I have drawn from these experiments are that ( 1 ) the influence of the rays on the zinc and tinfoil plates does not cause any direct or sudden change in their contact potential , but that ( 2 ) the air through which the rays pass is temporarily converted into an electrolyte , and when in this condition forms a connexion between the plates which has the same properties as a drop of acidulated water , namely , it rapidly reduces the potential between the opposing surfaces of the plates to zero , and may even reverse it to a small extent .
It is interesting to note that this electrolytic property was found by Lord Kelvin ( * Electrostatics and Magnetism , ' Art .
XXIII , SS 412\#151 ; 414 ) to be possessed by the fumes from a burning spirit lamp .
In both cases its cause is probably the same .
It is , no doubt , due to a want of electrical equilibrium among , and a partial dissociation of , the molecules of the gas .
VI .
" The Effect of Rontgen 's Rays on Cloudy Condensation .
" By C. T. R. Wilson , B.Sc. ( Viet .
) , B.A. ( Cantab .
) , Clerk-Maxwell Student .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 3 , 1896 .
In a paper on " The Formation of Cloud in the Absence of Bust , " read before the Cambridge Philosophical .
Society , May 13th , 1895 , I showed that cloudy condensation takes place in the absence of dust when saturated air suffers sudden expansion exceeding a certain critical amount .
I find that air exposed to the action of Rontgen 's rays requires to be expanded just as much as ordinary air in order that condensation may take place , " but these rays have the effect of greatly increasing the number of drops formed when the expansion is beyond that necessary to produce condensation .
Cinder ordinary conditions , when the expansion exceeds the critical

