]\gt ; Miss Lee , Miss Leweuz , and Prof. Pearson .
[ Nov. 3 , " " On the ation of the Mental and Physical Characters in Man .
Part II By LEE , ] ) A. LEWENZ , B.A. , and KAIiL , ] .
Received November 3 , \mdash ; Read November 20 , 1902 .
( 1 .
) In a first paper on this snbject we gave a brief aocount of our material\mdash ; Miss Beeton 's copies of the Cambridge anthropometric measurements degrees added at the University Registry , and the school measurements carried out istance from the Government Grant Committee .
This material will take years to exhaust , but the present notice ives further conclusions to be drawn from Dr. Lee 's and Miss Lewenz 's later reductions from this great mass of raw tistics .
( 2 .
) In the first place we to certain matters which directly from the first papel the discussion which followed the reading of that paper it was suggested that we ought not to correlate intelligence with absolute measurements on the head , but with their to the size of the body .
The anslver made on that occasion was ased on data not then published , namely , that there is sensible correlation ) etween intelligence and the absolute size of the body .
Hence the correlation between telligence and any ratio of body lengths must be small .
To show this let and ' any two , and the ratio ) ; let denote the coefficient of correlation of two characters ; let be the coefficient of variation of the quantity , be 100 times its standard deviation divided by its mean .
Then we have the ving formulae : \mdash ; ( i ) , .
( ii ) , here i denotes intelligence and ) any other cters .
Clearly when and are both small cannot be .
Let be length of head , be breadth of head , and S ) stature .
Then in the case of the Cambridge * ' On tion of Inlellectual Ability it the Size and Sh$llpc of the Head ' Roy .
Soc. vol. 69 ( 1902 ) , pp. 333\mdash ; 312 .
' Phil. Trans , vol. 187 , p. 276 .
Ibid. , p. 279 .
( ii ) is deduoible by simple algebra in the method often indiated in this series of papers .
1902 .
] Correlation of Jlental and Characters .
107 The 's and the physical correlations are due to Dr. W. R. Macwere given in first paper , and was deduced from the following fourfold table:\mdash ; ( A. ) Int .
lf were really sensible , it would mean that honours men were slightly shorter than pass men .
The only safe con clusion we can however , is that stature is not correlated with place in degree minations .
From the above results we find ltce have is to say , the correlations of iutelligence with the rtttios of length and readth of head to stature slightly smaller than the correlations of intelligence with the absolutc head-measurements .
The resuIt predicted from the smallness of in the discussion on the paper here receives its exact numerical confirmation .
( 3 .
) irlce our school measurements were started , Vaschide , and Pelletier have published in bhe 'Comptes Rendus ' statement that although unable to find any relation between intelligence and length or readth of head , they consider a relationship to hold between inteland the auricular height of head .
Their process was of the following kind .
They asked the school teacher to select ten intelligenl and ten non-intelligent children , and then measured the heads of these sets , and found their means .
This was done for groups of three in boys and two ages in girls .
The probable errors of the difference of the means of ten observations are not considered , and by exactly the same process that they reason that the auricular height is greater for the more intelligent children they might have deduced from their statistics that intelligent girls of 11 years have lower heads * ' Biometrika , ' vol. 1 , pp. 188-9 .
'Roy .
Soc. ' vol. 69 , pp. 335-6 .
'Comptes Rendus , ' Paris , vol. 133 , 1901 , pp. 551\mdash ; 553 .
108 lIiss Lee , Iiss Iewenz , and Prof. Pearson .
[ Nov. .3 , than intelligcnt girIs of 9 years , and non-intelligent boys of 11 ye rs lower heads than the same class of 9 years !
Frankly , we consider that the memoir is a good illustration of how little can be safely argued from data and a defective statistical theory .
Taking from our school data the auricular height of 2005 boys , from the growth table based on the same material , reducing them to the as standard , we find ( B. ) Heigh of and Intelligenc Whencc the correlation There is thus less correlation bebween auricular and intelligenoe than between either breadth or length and intelligence ; indeed , it is less than the probable error , and no weight can be laid on it whatever .
The discovery of Vaschide and Pelletier that the auricnlar height of school is related to their intelligsnce seems to us quite incorrect for English boys , and unproven owing to defect of and method even for French children .
It has been suggested by a sweeping cribic , who clings to the correlation of intelligence and heffi size , that our school head-measnrements are of no valuc .
To this we can only reply that in all cases where the surements have been in the least doubtful the spanner has been returned and the measurements -made .
Further , if the absen ce of correlation between intelligence and head-measurements be a proof that the head-mcasurements have been taken badly or the scale of intelligence wrongly applied , how does it happen that high elation out for the hend-measurements of brothers , for all three cases , , length , and height , and that its value is quite in with the correlation between the intelligence of brother The existence of careless measurement or appreciation would have redueed these correlations also to near zero , as well as those on the characters on the same individual .
We ars forced to conclude that lvhile our data give surprisingly consistent and uniform results for collateral heredity when we deal with of twenty characters , about half *Rosults for seven and three physical aracters were given ' Roy Soc. Proc vol. 69 , p. 165 .
These numbers been more than doubled Qince that paper lvas published .
1902 .
] Correlation of Physicat } half physical , they give with an equal weight the definitc resnlt there is no correlation between intelligence and the size or of head in children .
( 4 .
) Vhile it seems desirable later to investigate the Camidge data from the standpoint of the subject studied , as degree , we complete at present the list of otljer physical correlations intelligence on the simple basis of and pass degree oups .
the tables:\mdash ; and of ( C. ) First Gronping .
Above 8 ( I ) Second Intelligence correlation is from the ) , and from the .
Thns it ] ppear that either grouping the honours men have slightly less strength of pull than the pass men , but as even this small amount is when we gronp the first cIass men only together , such inferiorify its there is seems to lie in the sccond honours men .
the erage , we that there is a negave of ctwecn intelligencc and strength of pull .
The error of the , about little ; ight to it .
Miss Lee , Miss Lewenz , and Prof. Pearson .
[ Nov. ( E. ) Intelligence and Strength of Squeeze .
The correlation between intelligence and strength in this case This result , although it is less than its probable error , is negative .
( F. ) Intelligence and Sight .
This is judged in the Cambridge Anthropometric Laboratory by .distance at which the test type can be read .
Forty-one men on onr cards were unclassed\mdash ; lO in 1st class , 5 isecond , 1 in third , and 25 poll-men .
This was due to defective sight , or even to } Ioss of the right eye , because tho strength of the left eye was sometimes given ; we have not ventured to group these unclassed cases , however , with the short-sighted division .
The correlation between intelligence and long sight This is far less than the error of the result , but is agnin negative .
( G. ) Intelligence and Weight .
The correlation between intelligence and weight , and is bhus very slightly larger than its probable error .
1902 .
] Correlation of sical C'haracters .
Now , it has sometimes been argued in any investigation of thi kind , it is desil.able to take not absolute weight , bnt its ratio to stature or some power of stature .
Let weight , stature , and any power ; let , and be a coefficient of variation , one of correlation , standing for intelligence .
Then ( i ) , ( ii ) .
But from resnlts already given for the Cambridge datn .
Hence , calculating from ( i ) for , 2 , and 3 , we deduce correlation of intelligence with ratio lveight to statnre stature ) stature ) 3 There is no substantial diiference ) etween any of these correlations and that for intelligence and weight .
As they were indirectly by formulae , it seemed desirable to at least one of them directly .
Accordi ] Iiss .
Beeton found the ratios of weight per inch of statnre for 1012 ) ridge men .
The resulting table ( H. ) Intelligenc ( and ' inch of The distribution is sensibly the as that of the table for lute weights , the correlation omes ont , it only by , or about one-fifth of the probable error from the of correlation obtained indirectly .
may then , I think , conclude that whether we take weights or the ratio of weight to stnture , honours men are slightly heavier than poll-men .
Summing up the whole of our lit)us of the mbridge measnrements we may say that : 112 Miss Lee , Miss Lewenz and Prof. I'earson .
[ Now .
3 ; honours , and therefore t ) class , are , heavier and slightl , J longer and heads ; they are not tall nor as iitrong , whether or squeeze , are slightly shorter-si/ chted than the poll-me71 , or the less class .
no ; is correlation between and physical to enable us to group honours as a differentiated class , or to predict with even inoderate degrec ' of ' the characters 0 . .
individual .
( 5 .
) While the above hIld the ) results the Cambridge data , as long we the division into honours poll-men , much more remains to ) donc on this material when consider subject groupings among the ambridge gadnates , or when we turn to the much vider range of both physical and mental characters recorded in our school measurements .
A preliminary inquiry may , ever , be recorded here as rather vexed question the prescnt day , namely , the relation of thetics to health and intelligence .
In our school measurements three categories : ided into the classes : ] , Strong , Normally Health , f , DehcDelicate .
Ability or Intelligence\mdash ; was divided into six sses : , InfelliIntelligcjnt , Sfow , SlouDull , Lastly , we had the alternative -athletic .
By we understand not only fondness for out-door exercises and , but good performance in them .
There was a control entry in the schedules under the heading , in which not only the children , but in addition } they were at , had be entered .
We were in a position to make that triple correlation ) etween health , ability , and athlctic , which seems really needful , if a sane judgment is to be made on the athletics shouId play in the school curriculum .
The tables give the relations health and abihty , .
bility and athletic power , and health and power:\mdash ; ( I. ) He *Strong in these robnst .
1902 .
] lation of The correlation dividing the The of other dividing at the Delic , and ( ii ) putting the Slow int with the Intellicf .
We conclude , therefore , that there is a sensible , but not rked correlaand telligence .
Taking , ever , thetics we have the table : ( J. ) Henlth and .
1743 The correlation between healthy and athletic dividing bettveen S and ' he nlthy is , a very marked relationship .
Next , taking intelligenoe and athletics , we find : Athletics .
1708 Dividing between intelligent and slow intelligent we find the corrslation between intelligerlce and athletic character is This resuIt may be exhibited also in the percentages of athletic and non-athletic boys who fall under each class of of A fhletic and Non-athletic grade Intellig enc VOL. LXXI .
114 Correlation of Mented Physical Charactcrs .
[ Nov. 3 , The relationship between keenness for combined with capacity in games and general intelligence is here manifest .
Certain other correlations with the athletic character may be just noticed without giving the tables .
The athletic boy is popular and noisy , and this ough popularity is Dot found to be directly correlated with noise .
He is slightly self-conscious , and is more likely to be than dark .
His temper tends to be quick rathcr than sullen , as the following table , based on 1664 cases , will show : of to Boys for Temper .
etic To sum up , then : While the inlelligent are only slightly the more healthy , the athletic more healthy element in the community .
Further , the athletic are considerably more intelligent than the non-athletic ; they are the more popular and more noisy element ; and they tend to quick rather than sullen temper .
We may in general terms describe the athletic ] ) as healthy , quick-tempered , and intelligent when compared with the non-athletic boy .
He certainly under all three headings should make a better soldier than the nonathletic , and it is hard to discover any statistical evidence school life for such expressions as " " the flannelled fool at the wicket or " " the muddy oaf at the goal What happens in later life can only be determined when ample statistics are availnble for ction and comparison .
Failing such data , we can only from the vaguest of impressions .

