VII .
" On Spontaneous Evaporation .
" By BENJAMIN GUY BABINGTON , M.D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received June 7 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this communication is to make known certain powers of attraction and repulsion , hitherto , as far as I know , uninoticed , which are possessed by soluble substances in relationx to their solvent , and which , in the case of water ( the solvent here considered ) , are measuired by the amounit of loss , on spontaneous evaporation , in the weight of solutions of differenit salts and other substances , as compared with the loss of weight in water .
The force which holds together the particles of a vaporizable liquid is gradually overcome , if that liquid be exposed to air , by another force which separates , expands , and diffuses those particles in the form of vapour ; and this separation takes place , even at a common temperature , so rapidly , provided the surface be sufficiently extensive , that an easy opportunity is afforded of determining the loss of weight by a common balance .
A subject for investigation , possessing much interest , thuis presents itself , and , in its pursuit , some new and unexpected results are encountered .
The method which I have pursued has been to expose to the atmosphere , for a definite period , solutions of different salts , and also pure water under like conditions of quanitity and area , temperature , atmospheric moisture , and atmospheric pressure .
Different salts and other soltuble substances are thus found to possess , when in solution , different powers of retarding or accelerating evaporation , and hence , from its amounit , as compared with that which takes place in pure water , we can estimate the comparative value of those powers .
The powers themselves being established as facts , the next point is to endeavour to discover the cause or causes on which they depend , and a wide field of inquiry is thus opened .
The following are the instruments which have been employed : 1 .
A balance , for one of the scales of which is substituted a flat metal plate , six inches square , on which the vessels to be weighed can be coniveniently supported .
This balance will turn sensibly at a grain , even with a weight of 4 lbs. on either side .
2 .
A number of copper palns tinlned within , all of the same size , being precisely 5 inches square inside , with perpendicular sides *ths of an inch in height , also a number of eartheniware pans of the same dimensions , The area of 25 square inches has been chosen , partly because this size is convenient for manipulationl , and partly because the results obtained can be easily represented in decimals .
This facility of decimal calculation would be of importance should such pans come inlto general use as hygrometers , for which purpose they are well adapted .
3 .
Specific gravity bottles and counterpoises .
4 .
Thermometers of various degrees of delicacy and range , for ascertaining freezing , temperate , and boiling points .
5 .
Test tubes for use , in connexion with these thermometers , as well in freezing mixtures as over the spirit lamp .
6 .
A barometer .
7 .
Various salts and other soluble substances , furnishing , when in solution , the materials for examination .
The mode of procedure which I have adopted has been , to state my facts in the form of propositions , and to prove each of these propositions by experiments .
The propositions are as follows : 1st proposition.-That in many aqueous solutions of salts and other soluble substances evaporation is retarded , as compared with the evaporation of water .
2nd proposition.-That in solutions of salts which retard evaporation , that retardation is in proportion to the quantity of the salt held in solution .
3rd proposition.-That different salts and other substances soluble in water have different degrees of power in retarding its evaporation .
4th proposition.-That the power of retarding evaporation does not depend on the specific gravity of a solution .
5th proposition.-That in aqueous solutions of salts , the power of retardation does not depend on the base , whether we compare solutions containing like weights of the salt , or solutions of like specific gravities .
6th proposition.-That in aqueous solutions of salts , the power of retarding evaporation does appear to depend upon the salt radical or acid , although the retardation is not altogether independent of the influence of the base .
7th proposition.-That salts with two equivalents of an acid have a greater power of retarding evaporation than salts with one equivalent .
There are , however , exceptions .
8th proposition.-That there are some salts which , being dissolved in water , do not retard its evaporation , and some salts which , so far from retarding , actually accelerate evaporation .
The truth or probability of the foregoing propositions is established by numerous experiments , but in this abstract I shall , for the sake of brevity , only state the result of one or two experimenits in proof of each .
The first proposition is proved by the fact that a solution of hydrochlorate of soda in the proportion of 480 grains to four measured ounces of water , when exposed under the conditions already stated to spontaneous evaporation , lost only 33 grains in weight after twelve hours ' exposure , -while four ounces bymeasure of waterlost 53grains , and after twelve hours ' further exposure lost only 109 grains , while the water lost 174 grainis ; that is , the water , as compared with the solution , lost weight in the ratio nearly of 5 to 3 .
The second proposition is proved by the fact that a solution of 240 grains of bydrochlorate of soda in four ounces by measure of water lost in twelve hours 73 grains by evaporation , while four ounces by measure of pure water lost 81 grains , -this is in a proportion of only about 8 of the latter to 7 of the former ; whereas , when double the quantity or 480 grains of salt were dissolved , the pure water , as compared with the solution , lost in the proportion of 5 to 3 .
The third proposition is proved by the fact that a solution of 480 grains of nitrate of potassa in 4 ounces or 1920 grains of water lost in twelve hours 95 grains ; while a solution of the same strength of hydrochlorate of soda lost only 70 grainis ; and again , a solution of loaf-sugar , in which 480 grains were dissolved in 1920 grains of water , lost in 20 hours 175 grains , while a like solution of hydrochlorate of soda lost only 117 grains .
The fourth proposition is proved by the fact that 480 grains of gum-arabic dissolved in 1920 of water had a specific gravity of 1 072 , while a solution of hydrochlorate of soda of like strength had a specific gravity of I l49 ; after L4 hours , the former had lost by evaporation 71 grains , while the latter had lost only 50 grains .
Here , therefore , the solution of the lighter specific gravity was less retarded in its evaporation than the heavier solution .
In contrast with this fact , a solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia of 480 grains to 1920 grains of water , having a specific gravity of only 1 060 , lost by evaporation , in 8 hours and 44 minutes , 17 grains , while a like solution of hydrochlorate of soda lost 24 grains .
Here , them , the solution of lighter specific gravity was more retarded in its evaporationl than the heavier solution .
The conclusion is decisive that specific gravity has nio necessary connexion with the pbkenonmelna .
The fifth propositiont is proved by the fact that in the following solutions of salts of potassa , all of the same strength ( namely 1 salt to 10 water ) , a difference in the amount of evaporation in each will be observed to have taken place , and it must be borne in mind that in solutions so weak we cannot expect that difference to be very great .
The reason for employing weak solutions was the necessity for having all of the same strength , one in ten being the extent , to which the least soluble salt submitted to examination , namely , the sulphate of potassa , will , at a low temperature , dissolve .
graiins .
Acetate of potassa lost in 35 hours ... .
145 Bicarbonate of potassa lost in 35 hours ... 131 Carbonate of potassa lost in 35 hours .
e 115 Ferro-cyanate of potassa lost in 35 hours .
110 Hydrochlorate of potassa lost in 35 hours. .
98 Nitrate of potassa lost in 35 hours ... 117 Sulphate of potassa lost in 35 hours .
e a. 132 Tartrate of potassa lost in 35 hours ... .
151 The above solutions were next made all of one specific gravity , namely 1 060 , temp. 620 Fahr. , instead of being all of one strength , and the following is the result:grains .
Acetate of potassa lost in 16k hours ... 46 Bicarbonate of potassa lost in 16k hours Ja 45 Carbonate of potassa lost in 16k hours 35 Ferro-cyanate of potassa lost in 16k hours. .
41 Ilydrochlorate of potassa lost in 16k hours. .
32 Nitrate of potassa lost in 16k hours ... 39 Sulphate of potassa lost in 16k hours. .
e. 42 Tartrate of potassa lost in 16k hours .
43 The sixth proposition is rendered probable by the following experiment , in which solutions are employed of acetic , nitric , sulphuric , and hydrochloric acids , combined respectively with potassa , soda , and ammonia , in the proportion of 100 grains of the salt to 1000 grains of water .
After the expiration of 10 hours and 20 minutes , the solution of the three acetates lost respectively , for the potassa salt 35 grs. , for the soda salt 35 grs. , and for the ammonia salt 28 grs. In the solutions of the three nitrates , the loss was respectively 24 , 25 and 25 .
In the solutions of the three sulphates , the loss was 30 grs. , 37 grs. , and(I 29 grs. respectively , while in the solutions of the hydrochlorates it was 17 , 18 , and 19 grains .
The seventh proposition is proved by an experiment in which a solution of 100 grains of carbonate of potassa dissolved in 1000 grains of water is compared with a like solution of bicarbonate of potassa .
In ten hours the solution of the carboniate lost 45 grains , while that of the bicarbonate lost only 36 grains .
In comparing like proportions and quantities of sulphate and bisulphate of potassa , the respective losses in 13 hours were , for the former 53 grains , for the latter 45 grains .
Similar comparisons of the acetate and binacetate of ammonia , phosphate and biphosphate , sulphate and bisulphate of potassa , tartrate and bitartrate of soda show like results .
In the course of investigating this proposition it was remarked incidentally that in all the salts examilned , with the single exception of carbon-ate and bicarbonate of soda , the bini-acid solution ( the proportion by weight of salt to water being equal ) is of less specific gravity than the monio-acid solution , though possessing a greater power of retarding evaporation .
The eighth proposition , which seems extraordinary and even paradoxical , is proved by anl experiment in which saturated solutions of--1 , ferro-cyanate of potassa , 2 , bitartrate of potassa , 3 , sulphate of copper , 4 , chlorate of potassa , and 5 , distilled water , were compared .
In 9 hours and 20 minutes , their losses by evaporation were respectively 34 grs. , 38 grs. , 34 grs. , 29 grs. , and 29 grs. , where we perceive that in the chlorate of potassa solution there has occurred no retardation at all , while in the following experiment , in which 120 grains of each of the salts examined were dissolved in 1200 grains of water , namely , -l , solution of sulphate of copper , 2 , solution of ferro-cyanate of potassa , 3 , solution of carbonate of soda , and 4 , distilled water , the number of grains lost by evaporation after 152 hours ' exposure were , -l , 120 grs. ; 2 , 113 grs. ; 3 , 106 grs. ; 4 , 103 grs. It is thus perceived that in all the three solutions a more rapid evaporation had taken place than in distilled water alone .
One or two other propositions are in process of investigation .
The paper concludes with a table of the freezing-points , boilingpoints , and specific gravities , as well of weak as of saturated solutions , of the salts which have been submitted to examination .

