389 The Constitution of the Alloys of Aluminium and Zinc .
By Walter Rosenhain , B.A. , D.Sc .
, and Sydney L. Archbutt , A.I.C. ( of the National Physical Laboratory ) .
( Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook , C.B. , F.R.S. Received January 30 , \#151 ; Read February 16 , 1911 .
) ( Abstract .
) In connection with an extended research on the properties of the light alloys of aluminium , undertaken on behalf of the Alloys Research Committee of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers , the authors endeavoured to confirm the equilibrium diagram of the aluminium-zinc alloys published by Shepherd* ; preliminary observations , however , showed that a redetermination of the diagram was required , and this is described in the present paper .
The alloys have been studied both thermally and microscopically .
For the thermal investigation a large number of cooling curves and some heating curves were taken by means of a delicate potentiometer and a thermocouple , large masses of alloy ( 300 grm. ) and slow rates of cooling being employed .
The information thus obtained was supplemented by additional cooling curves taken on specimens of certain of the alloys which had been exposed to prolonged heating ( up to 100 hours ) in order to allow of the completion of gradual chemical changes .
The microscopic examination of the alloys was applied to specimens which had been ( a ) slowly cooled from fusion , ( ) annealed at certain definite temperatures and slowly cooled , and ( c ) annealed at certain temperatures and then quenched .
In addition , the method of microscopic examination of small quenched specimens has been used in order to locate the solidus curve of the alloys .
The equilibrium diagram arrived at by the authors , which differs materially from that hitherto accepted , is shown in the accompanying figure , where both cooling curve and quenching observations have been plotted in the usual manner on percentage concentration as abscissae and temperatures as ordinates .
The liquidus of the alloys is represented by the lines ABCJD ; these correspond closely with the liquidus as drawn by Shepherd , except for the break at the point C ; the authors regard the existence of this break as being well established both by the observations as plotted and by corroborative evidence for the existence of a definite compound Al2Zn3 .
The point B is a eutectic point corresponding to a concentration of 95 per cent , of zinc .
The solidus of these alloys is given by the lines AEBFGHD .
* ' Journal of Physical Chemistry , ' 1905 , vol. 9 , p. 504 .
VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; A. 2 E 390 Dr. W. Rosenhain and Mr. S. L. Archbutt .
[ Jan. 30 , Alloys containing more than 95 per cent , of zinc commence to solidify along the line AB by depositing crystals of the a-phase , which consists of 1911 .
] Constitution of the Alloys of Aluminium and Zinc .
391 zinc holding in solution less than 1 per cent , of aluminium .
On the line EB the solidification is completed by the freezing of the residual liquid as eutectic .
The distance of the point E from the zinc end of the diagram has not been definitely fixed , but it is found to be less than 1 per cent. In the field EB JI the alloys consist of crystals of a embedded in a solid eutectic of a and ft. Along the line IJ , ft undergoes a decomposition into two phases , which have been found to be \#171 ; and 7 , so that below IJ these alloys consists of a and 7 only .
The change ft = a+ 7 is , however , a slow one and is not completed in alloys cooled at any ordinary rate .
* Alloys in the field BCGE consist of a mixture of crystals of ft and liquid ; at the line BF this liquid solidifies in the form of eutectic , and in the field BFKJ the alloys consist of crystals of ft embedded in a solid eutectic of ft and a ; at the line JK , the / 3-phase again decomposes into a and 7 , the change now taking place in both the primary crystals of ft and in the ^-constituent of the eutectic .
In the field CGH .
D the alloys consist of crystals of solid 7 surrounded by liquid , the 7-phase being simply a solid solution of zinc in aluminium .
Along the line CGH the solid 7 reacts with the liquid to form the / 3-phase , according to the equation 7 + liquid = ft. ' Quenching experiments have shown that to the right of the line FG the alloys become completely solid along the line GH ; this indicates that at the concentration of the line GF the above reaction just absorbs the whole of the liquid still present at that temperature .
Cooling curves of alloys to the right of the line GF still show the eutectic arrests along the dotted line FP , but after prolonged heating at a temperature just below that of the line GH these arrests disappear .
The exact position of the line GFK has been fixed by two further series of determinations ; by estimating the quantities of heat generated by the solidification of the eutectic along the line BF , it has been possible to find the end point of the eutectic line by extrapolation , while a similar estimation in regard to the reaction along the line JKL has furnished the position of the maximum intensity of that reaction .
Within the limits of experimental error of such determinations , these two series agree in fixing the position of the line GFK at or close to 78 per cent , of zinc , and this corresponds to the compound Al2Zn3 ( 78'35 per cent , of zinc ) .
The microstructures of the alloys containing this phase ( called ft in the diagram ) show characteristic dendritic crystals which possess a marked habit of assuming six-rayed forms , such forms being very unusual in metals .
It should be added that a quantitative connection between the heat evolutions along the lines CGH and JKL has been established , so that the authors draw the conclusion that the upper of these two series of reactions represents the formation and the lower the decomposition of the compound Al2Zn3 .
392 The Constitution of the Alloys of Aluminium and Zinc .
To the right of the line GFK the reaction 7 +liquid = ft leaves an excess of 7 , but , microscopically , alloys within the field DGKL are found to be homogeneous under equilibrium conditions ; it follows that and 7 form a continuous series of solid solutions .
Of this series , those rich in / 3 show the heat evolution due to the decomposition of / 3 along the line KL , but special circumstances render it difficult to determine microscopically where the limit of this decomposition lies .
It is also doubtful whether the reaction which results in the formation of the compound / 3 takes place if the whole of the metal has solidified before the temperature of CGH has been reached .
The lines CGH and JKL have therefore been continued towards the aluminium end of the diagram as dotted lines only .
The decomposition of ft along the line JKL gives rise to an interesting duplex micro-structure , particularly to the right of K , where the decomposition is that of the solid solution of 7 in ft , called in the diagram .
The alloys appear perfectly homogeneous when quenched from temperatures above the line KL , but if slowly cooled through that line , and , still more , if annealed for a time , first at a temperature just below GH , and then again at a temperature just below KL , they exhibit a laminated duplex structure closely resembling the laminated structures met with in the " pearlite " of annealed carbon steels .
Such a laminated structure resulting from the decomposition of a solid solution has not , so far as the authors are aware , been hitherto met with except in the'iron-carbon alloys .
The position of the line HD has been ascertained by a series of quenching experiments ; the quenching temperatures which still allowed signs of the presence of liquid to be detected in the specimens are indicated by dots surrounded by small circles , while those in which no liquid could be traced are shown as small squares .
A further line of arrest-points , which , although minute , are well marked and of constant occurrence , are shown in the regions of 7 and 7 +liquid .
The authors cannot assign an explanation for these points on the basis of a diagram of binary alloys , and are therefore driven to the suggestion that they may be due to the action of a third component entering into the alloys in minute quantities as an impurity .
Iron and silicon are found in the alloys in small quantities ( under 0'2 per cent. ) , and this may be connected with the occurrence of these small heat evolutions .
The authors desire to express their thanks to various members of the staff of the Metallurgy Department of the National Physical Laboratory who have assisted in the work of this research , and to the Director , Dr. R. T. Glaze-brook , F.R.S. , for his interest in its progress .

