On the Alloys of Steel .
By J. Stodart , Esq. F.R.S. and Mr. M. Faraday , Chemical Assistant in the Royal Institution .
Communicated by J. Stodart , Esq. F.R.S. Read March 21 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 253 .
] The metals which form the most valuable alloys with steel , for the purpose of manufacture into cutting instruments , are silver , platinum , rhodium , iridium , osmium , and palladium .
Eight pounds of Indian steel , alloyed with y-.-Tth of pure silver , formed a very hard and tenacious compound , well adapted to the manufacture of cutlery and several edge tools .
Ten pounds of the same steel with -Trth of pure platinum , produced an alloy less hard but more tougl than the former .
With rhodium , iridium , and osmium the alloys were also excellent ; but the scarcity of those metals prevents their general introduction into the manufactory .
The authors then state the processes of analysis which they adopted to assure themselves of the composition and perfection of the respective alloys .
The alloy with platinum is rapidly acted upon by sulphuric acid ; and to ascertain the presence of the platinum , the residuary black powder of this solution , after having been heated red hot , is to be treated with nitro-muriatic acid , and the platinum reduced by heat .
The residuary matter of the alloy of silver , when similarly acted on by dilute sulphuric acid , was dissolved in nitric acid , and tested by muriatic .
The residue of the alloy of palladium having been heated , was dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid , and precipitated by prussiate of mercury .
From the rhodium residuum the iron was removed by muriatic acid , and long digestion in nitro-muriatic acid gave an easily distinguishable muriate of rhodium .
The residue of iridium and osmium was decomposed in the usual way by the action of caustic soda .
The rapid action of dilute sulphuric acid upon these alloys , as compared with pure steel , is next adverted to , and is referred to electrical action , a voltaic combination being produced by the liberation of the difficultly oxidable metal .
The black insoluble residue of these alloys , obtained by the action of dilute sulphuric , appear to be peculiar compounds . !
When boiled in dilute muriatic acid , protoxide of iron is dissolved , and a black insoluble compound remains , which , when dried and heated to 400 ?
, burns like pyrophorus , leaving protoxide of iron and the alloying metal : hence , say the authors , during the action of the acids on the steel , a portion of hydrogen enters into combination with part of the metal and charcoal , and forms an inflammable compound not acted on by the acids .
The action of nitric acid on some of these residua produces a deflagrating compound , especially that from the alloy of platinum .
This paper concludes with some observations on the probable im-

