1894 .
] On the Production of Sounds by certain Fishes .
VIII .
" Note on the Production of Sounds by the Air-bladder of certain Siluroid Pishes .
" By Professors T. W. Bridge and A. C. Haddon .
Communicated by Professor A. Newton , F.R.S. Received April 17 , 1894 .
Dr. William Sorensen , of Copenhagen , has drawn our attention to the fact that , in our memoir on " The Air-bladder and Weberian Ossicles in the Siluroid Fishes , " published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' last year ( vol. 184 , pp. 65\#151 ; 333 ) , we failed to do justice to the results of certain investigations which are embodied in his paper , entitled " Om Lydorganer hos Fiske : en physiologist og comparativ-anatomisk Undersogelse , " and published at Copenhagen in 1884 .
In this paper I)r .
Sorensen treats of the various methods of sound production in Fishes in general , and in the case of the Siluroid Fishes , describes the production of sounds by means of certain stridulating mechanisms ( friction of the dorsal and pectoral spines ) , the " elastic spring " apparatus , and the paired extrinsic muscles of the air-bladder in the P We do not here wish to criticise his morphological conclusions , but to point out that , contrary to the assumption on pp. 270 and 301 of oar paper , Dr. Sorensen did make some experiments on living Fish .
After describing the nature of the " elastic spring " and the disposition of its muscles in the South American Siluroid , Doras on p. 88 of his paper , he says , concerning this Fish:\#151 ; " Observations on the Production of Sounds.\#151 ; When one opens the abdomen of a recently caught fish and quickly extracts the intestines with everything that is attached to them so that the swim-bladder is exposed , one can very easily pei'ceive that the swim-bladder is in a convulsive vibratory motion at the same time that the sound is produced .
It is a very deep murmuring note , which is so strong that it can be distinctly heard at a distance of 100 ft. when the animal is out of the water .
Unlike the sounds produced by the movements of the pectoral fin , the tones produced by the swim-bladder are not grating , and therefore not disagreeable to the ear .
As far as I am able to judge , the swim-bladder commands only one note , but this can be stronger or weaker according to the will of the fish .
If one moves the fingers backwards and forwards over the swim-bladder , one will soon perceive that the vibrating motion , beginning at the same time as the sound , is strongest in the front , especially at the " muscle-springs , " and also that the muscles passing to these contract at the same time that the sound is produced .
If the muscles are cut through , the sound is no longer produced .
If one makes a little hole in the swim-bladder , the sound will not be very much weaker ; but if 440 On the Production of Sounds by certain Fishes .
[ Apr. 26 , a larger opening is made in it , the sound will considerably diminish in strength .
If one takes out the swim-bladder , the note will become very weak , but may still be heard ; it is then produced only by the vibrations of the springs .
By ordinary observations I have not been able to prove that those bars or cross-walls ( transverse septa ) which project into the lumen of the chief compartment of the swim-bladder , or its external diverticula , assist in the production of sound ; but if one compares this with what I state later on in Pseudaroides , I believe it would prove very doubtful , on account of their incomplete partition walls , that the diverticula of the swim-bladder even to a great degree serve to strengthen the sound by the air passing to and fro over them .
By looking more particularly one will observe that the anterior cutaneous plate at the side of the body also vibrates when the sound is produced .
I suppose that the action of the ligament , which connects it with the circular plate of the muscular spring , besides transferring the sound vibrations of the swim-bladder to the water , consists in preventing a too violent recoil of the spring when the muscle is relaxed .
" After describing the air bladder , and the arrangement of its paired extrinsic muscles in Platys and Pseudaroides clarias , Dr. Sorensen continues ( p. 93 ) :\#151 ; " When the swim-bladder is laid open in the living animal , it is very easy to perceive that the contractions of the previously mentioned muscles [ extrinsic muscles ] occur at the same time as the production of a strong , deep , murmuring sound , whilst the wall of the swim-bladder is put into strong vibratory motion .
The majority of the specimens I have examined of Pseudaroides had at the most a total length of 25\#151 ; 35 cm .
The walls of the swim-bladder were , therefore , not so thick , but I was able to distinguish the internal transverse septa as darker transverse lines ; I could therefore see very distinctly that when the sounds were produced , the septa were in a state of rapid vibration forwards and backwards .
This is sufficient to prove that they play a very important part in tending to increase the sounds by the fact that the air vibrates over their free edges , from one chamber to the other .
If one makes a small hole in the swim-bladder of Platystoma , the strength of the sounds will not be very much diminished .
If an even smaller incision is made the sound becomes fainter and fainter , and at length dies away , even though the muscles aie functional .
" So far as I have been able to see , only one muscular contraction takes place , as in Doras , for every time sound is produced .
This always lasts a certain period , is fainter at the end , but ceases suddenly .
About the nature of the sound , the same can be said as I have stated about Doras .
The sound a Platystoma produces can be heard at a distance of more than 20 feet , when the animal is on the land .
Presents .
1894 .
] From these observations it is also clear that the sounds produced by these fishes are not caused by the expulsion of air through the ductus pneumaticus , as erroneously assumed by us on pp. 298 and p. 301 of our memoir , but are caused by the vibration of the air within the air-bladder , which is set in motion either by the " elastic spring " apparatus , or by the extrinsic muscles .
The investigations of Dr. Sorensen seem to show that , under certain conditions , the " elastic spring " mechanism , and the paired extrinsic muscles of the Pimelodince , are structures subordinate to sound production , and are not , as we suggested , related to any method of adjustment to varying hydrostatic pressures .
Had we appreciated this fact earlier , we should have modified certain of the tentative conclusions suggested on pp. 298\#151 ; 301 of our memoir .
On the present occasion we wish to draw the attention of those interested in the subject to Dr. Sdrensen 's researches , and at the same time to express our regret at the injustice we have unintentionally done him .
The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May 10 .
Presents , April 26 , 1894 .
Transactions .
Buitenzorg:\#151 ; Jardin Botanique .
Annals .
Yol .
XII .
Party 1 .
8vo .
Leide 1894 .
The Director .
Edinburgh :\#151 ; Botanical Society .
Transactions and Proceedings .
Yol .
XIX .
Pages 233-636 .
8vo .
Edinburgh 1893 .
The Society .
Haarlem.\#151 ; Musee Teyler .
Archives .
Yol .
IY .
Party 2 .
Svo .
Haarlem 1894 .
The Museum .
Irkutsk:\#151 ; East Siberian Section , Imperial Russian Geographical Society .
Annual Report .
1892 .
8vo .
Irkutsk 1894 .
The Society .
Kazan:\#151 ; Imperial University .
Scientific Notes .
1894 .
No. 4 .
8vo .
Kazan .
The University .
Kew :\#151 ; Royal Gardens .
Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information .
1894 .
No. 88 .
8vo .
London .
The Director .
London:\#151 ; Aristotelian Society for the Systematic Study of Philo-sophyr .
Proceedings .
Yol .
II .
No. 3 .
Part I. 8vo .
London 1894 .
The Society .
City and Guilds of London Institute .
Report to the Governors , 1894 .
8vo .
London .
The Institute .
Marine Biological Association .
Journal .
Yol .
III .
No. 2 .
Svo .
London 1894 .
The Association .
Marseilles:\#151 ; Faculte des Sciences .
Annals .
Tome III .
Fasc .
4 .
4to .
[ Marseille 1893 .
] The Faculty .

