On the Structure and Use of the Submaxillary Odoriferous Gland in the Genus Crocodilus .
By Thomas Bell , Esq. F.L.S. G.S. Communicated by Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read March 1 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 132 .
] The author begins by remarking on the general inattention prevailing among anatomists , to such glands as produce anomalous secretions , required only by the peculiar and exclusive habits of the animals possessing them .
A gland of this kind subsists beneath the lower jaw of the alligator and crocodile .
It is situated on each side , and secretes an unctuous substance of a strong musky odour .
Neither its structure nor its probable object have yet been considered with any care , till the author , about two years ago , discovered in it a structure which he thinks is without a parallel in the glandular system of other animals .
His observations were made on the common alligator of America .
In this animal the external orifice of the gland is situated about two thirds of the length of the lower jaw backwards from the symphysis , being a longitudinal slit a little within the lower edge of the basis of the jaw , and through it exudes an unctuous substance of the consistence of suet and the smell of musk .
During warm weather , when the animal feeds freely , the secretion is copious ; but in winter is much diminished in quantity , and less powerful in scent .
The gland , on removing the integuments , is seen lying between the skin and under-surface of the tongue .
It consists of a simple follicle or sac , of a blueish colour , and an elongated and pyriform shape .
In an alligator four feet in length , it is about half an inch long and one sixth in diameter .
It is lined with a soft secreting membrane .
The gland is enveloped by extremely fine , delicate , muscular fibres , disposed obliquely , and consisting of two fasciculi , passing respectively over and under the gland , and uniting at its base into a long slender round muscle , which , after making a slight curve forwards , proceeds directly back to the corner of the os hyoides , to which it is closely united ; and following the course of another muscle apparently identical with the mylo-hyoideus in mammifera .
The use of the muscle seems to be to bring the gland into a proper position for discharging its contents , and to operate such discharge by its pressure .
The author , taking into consideration the situation of the gland near the mouth of the alligator , its predatory habits and voracity of fish , and the well-known partiality of fish for odoriferous oils and extracts , conceives that the use of this secretion is to act as a bait , and attract the fish to such a position that he can easily seize on them , in his usual way of seizing his prey , by snapping sideways at them .

