On the Ultimate Analysis of Vegetable and Animal Substances .
By Andrew Ur , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 27 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 457.1 ] Dr. Ur commences this paper by adverting to the fallacies to which the modes of analysing organic substances hitherto practised are subject ; and in detailing the peculiar methods adopted in his own researches , he shows the means of obviating them , and of diminishing the various sources of inaccuracy to which these complicated processes of analytical chemistry are necessarily more or less liable .
Where oxide of copper is used , its hygrometric quality has generally been overlooked , or not duly allowed for ; and the animal and vegetable substances have not in general been exposed to any process of desiccation sufficiently exact or uniform ; the author therefore always used the oxide of copper in some known or ascertained degree of humidity ; and he dried the organic bodies in the air.pump vacuum , aided by the absorbent powers of a surface of sulphuric acid in the apparatus , and with precautions which he fully describes .
He then details the best means of applying heat for the decomposition of organic substances , and describes a drawing representing the construction of his furnace , and other implements .
Lastly , he points out the method of examining the results and products , and gives in detail the analysis of sulphuric ether , as illustrating the mode of computing the relations of the constituents , while the results of the other analyses are , for the sake of brevity , thrown into a tabular form .
Dr. Ur concludes his paper with some general remarks on the analytical details .
In respect to sugar , he observes , that on comparing pure crystalline sugar with diabetic sugar , the latter exhibits a notable excess of oxygen ; and he considers weak sugars ( as the refiners call them ) , in general , to exhibit the same peculiarity .
In applying the atomic theory to his experimental results , the author enlarges on the different views which may be taken of the ultimate constitution of a variety of organic products , and enters at considerable length into details relating to the vegetable acids , with a view of determining with exactness their prime equivalents , and the relative proportions of combined water which they contain in their crystalline states .

