484 Mr. A. Schuster on the Spectrum of Nitrogen .
[ June 20 , XVII .
" On the Spectrum of Nitrogen .
" By Arthur Schuster , Student at the Physical Laboratory of Owens College .
Communicated by Balfour Stewart , F.B.S. Received June 13,1872 .
1 Introductory.\#151 ; The formation of the different spectra which one gas is said to exhibit , when examined under different conditions , still remains one of the most obscure points of spectrum analysis .
In 1864 , when Plucker and Hittorf published their researches " On the Spectra of Ignited Gases and Vapours , with especial regard to the different Spectra of the same elementary gaseous substance"* , they drew attention to the close resemblance in character of the band-spectra which certain metals yield at a comparatively low temperature to the band-spectrum of nitrogen and sulphur .
Roscoe and Clifton , n their paper " On the effect of increased Temperature upon the nature of the Light emitted by the Vapour of certain Metals orMetallicCompounds " + , rendered it probable that the band-spectra of the metals belonged really to the oxides .
The two spectra of nitrogen were not , however , examined from that point of view , but , on the contrary , they were made the starting-point of new investigations by W ullner , who came to the conclusion that certain gases may give even more than two different spectra .
Angstrom J , expressing his doubts about the trustworthiness of'Wiillner 's experiments , says in a note : " As regards the spectra which are usually attributed to nitrogen , I mention here , as a general fact , that it is my conviction that the fluted bands which are so characteristic of the oxides of metals are never found in spectra of elementary gases .
I propose to show , in the present communication , ( 1 ) that pure nitrogen gives only one spectrum ; ( 2 ) that this is the line-spectrum ; ( 3 ) that the fluted spectrum of the first order is due to oxides of nitrogen , formed under the influence of the electric spark .
2 .
First experiment.\#151 ; The first experiment which I made with respect to the spectrum of nitrogen , was a repetition of an experiment of Secchi , who found that in different sections of the same tube three different spectra of nitrogen might be obtained . .
A vacuum-tube was made exactly according to Secchi 's description , filled with nitrogen and exhausted .
To my astonishmemt the tube showed , even in its widest parts , only a spectrum of lines .
No accurate measurements were taken at the time , but the spectrum was no doubt that of the second order described by Plucker .
Suddenly , and while I was looking through the spectroscope , the spectrum changed , and the well-known fluted bands appeared .
The first spectrum could now easily be obtained by introducing a Leyden jar in the circuit .
The spark very soon ceased to pass , and it was then found that the tube was leaking .
3 .
The behaviour of this tube at once suggested the idea that the presence of air was necessary for the formation of the fluted spectrum .
R *s * Philosophical Transactions , vol. civ .
p. 1 .
t Chemical News , vol. v. p* J Comptes Bendus , Aug. 1871 .
1872 .
] Mr. A. Schuster on the Spectrum of Nitrogen .
well known that the oxides of nitrogen are formed on passing the electric spark through air , and the resemblance which this spectrum bears to the spectra of the oxides of metals rendered this view probable .
In order to test it , a series of experiments were made , showing that , \#151 ; ( a ) Whenever the fluted spectrum appeared , it could be shown that traces of oxygen were present ; ( b ) Whenever there was a certainty of no oxygen being present , the spectrum of the second order appeared under all pressures and in all temperatures .
In order to free the nitrogen from every trace of oxygen , I adopted , at Dr. Stewart 's suggestion , the plan of heating a small piece of sodium placed in the vacuum-tube .
This proved in each case perfectly satisfactory ; for when every trace of oxygen had thus been absorbed , the line-spectrum alone was invariably obtained* .
4 .
Wave-length of the two spectra.\#151 ; There is no possibility of confounding the two spectra .
The fluted spectrum is well known by its beautifully shaded violet bands ; but in order to exclude any possibility of error , their position was read off on the reflecting scale of the spectroscope ; the measurements were reduced to wave-lengths , and the following numbers obtained for the least refrangible end of the bands in tenth metres'f:\#151 ; Fluted Spectrum .
\#166 ; \#151 ; __A___-__5129 4436 4981 4390 4649 4318 4556 4237 As the measurements were taken merely for the sake of reference , they do not lay claim to great accuracy .
The true spectrum of nitrogen is easily recognized by a very bright green line followed at a small distance towards the more refrangible parts by a green band ; it also contains some violet bands , which are not shaded .
The position of the principal lines was read off ; their wave-lengths , as determined by Dr. Marshall Watts from the measurements made by Plucker , are as follows:\#151 ; Line-spectrum .
6243 5767 4214 6176 5666 4199 6087 5164 ( the green line ) 4184 6051 4894 4170 5908 4644 band band The formation of the fluted spectrum does not imply that all the nitrogen in the tube has been oxidized ; it has been remarked by different observers , and especially noticed hy 1 liicker , that when the spark passes through a mixture of two gases , the spectrum of one only is often seen .
t A tenth metro , according to Angstrom , means a metre divided by 1010 .
486 Mr. A. Schuster on the Spectrum of Nitrogen .
[ June 20 , 5 .
Description of apparatus.\#151 ; The tubes generally used had two pockets , A and B , into which small pieces of metallic sodium were introduced by means of the tubes C and D. The tube C was connected with the receiver containing the nitrogen , whilst the tube D was connected with the air-pump .
The nitrogen was generally prepared by the combustion of phosphorus in air .
After a few hours ' standing , when all the phosphoric acid formed had been absorbed , the gas became quite clear and was ready for use .
This mode of preparation , it is true , does not give the nitrogen very pure ; but as my object was to get the nitrogen free from oxygen , and this was easily obtained by means of the absorption by sodium , the method was found sufficient .
Other modes of preparing the nitrogen were tried , such as passing air over red-hot copper or the decomposition of ammonia by chlorine , but the same results were invariably obtained .
The air-pump used was that of Carre 's freezing-machine , with which pressures down to 2 millims. could be easily obtained .
When the pressure was measured , a J-shaped tube was employed , one side of which was connected with the Geissler 's tube , the other with the pump , while the mercury was drawn up in the longer part of the tube ; its height was read off and compared with a barometer .
I now pass to the description of the experiments .
6 .
Method of experimenting.\#151 ; When the air in the vacuum-tube had been exhausted , the communication with the receiver containing the nitrogen was opened , and the gas was allowed to pass through it for some time while the pump was being worked .
The tubing connecting the tube with the receiver was then clamped air-tight , and the tube was exhausted .
The electric spark in passing through it exhibited a violet colour , and gave the spectrum of fluted bands : 5129 4436 4981 4390 4649 4318 4556 4237 The sodium was next heated until it presented a clean metallic surface .
The light which the tube now emitted was bluish white , and much fainter than before ; and the whole appearance of the spectrum had changed to that of the second order with its characteristic green line .
It wfts , however , found that the pressure in the tube had slightly increased , owing most likely to the vapour of the sodium present ; and on bringing the mercury to its former level , the spectrum became brighter , but rernaine the same in character .
New nitrogen was then led into the tube , and alter exhaustion the old fluted spectrum again appeared ; this was , however , at once changed into that of lines by heating the sodium .
This process wa 1872 .
] Mr. A. Schuster on the Spectrum of Nitrogen .
repeated several times in succession , but invariably with the same result .
I have in my possession two tubes sealed off under 2 millims. pressure , one without sodium , showing the fluted bands , the other containing sodium , showing the spectrum of lines .
Two other tubes , sealed off under 15 millims. pressure , show the same thing .
I have repeatedly convinced myself that , from the highest pressure under which the spark of the induction-coil passes to the lowest pressure which I could obtain with an ordinary air-pump , pure nitrogen invariably gave one and the same line-spectrum .
Once , when I intended to seal a tube off under higher pressures , it was found that the sodium was not sufficient to absorb all the oxygen present , so that a sort of mixture of the two spectra was seen .
Such a mixture was often observed by Pliicker and Wullner at the point where one spectrum changed into the other ; it is characterized by the green line of nitrogen and the fluted violet bands at the same time .
The tube showing the mixture at 15 millims. pressure was gradually exhausted , but the spectrum remained exactly the same .
If the formation of the two spectra depends merely upon the pressure or temperature to which the gas is subjected , how can a mixture of the two spectra , indicating a state of transition , exist under so entirely different pressures and different temperature ?
In order to ascertain whether nitrogen even carefully prepared contains oxygen , a drop of a solution of iodide of potassium and starch was introduced into the tube ; after the spark had passed for a few seconds only , the liquid was coloured blue\#151 ; showing either the formation of oxides of nitrogen or of ozone , but at any rate the presence of oxygen .
7 .
Spectrum of oxides of nitrogen.\#151 ; I tried to obtain the spectra of the different oxides of nitrogen ; they all give the same fluted spectrum , and I could get no information as to which particular oxide the fluted spectrum is due : this is , however , easily understood if we remember that it is just as difficult to prepare the oxides of nitrogen free from oxygen as pure nitrogen itself ; so that the oxide giving the spectrum in question will always be formed .
I have , however , convinced myself that the absorption-bands of nitrous acid gas are not coincident with the bright bands of the spectrum ; and it is probable that the spectrum is due to nitric oxide , this being the most stable of all the oxides of nitrogen .
I may add that one of the tubes containing the sodium and showing the lines one day cracked , and then at once showed the violet bands .
This fact will not be easily explained by the assumption that the fluted spectrum elongg to a lower pressure and lower temperature than the spectrum of lines .
I propose to subject the different spectra of the remaining gases to a careful examination .
The above experiments were made in the Physical Laboratory of Owens jj-ge , Manchester ; and I have to thank Professors Balfour Stewart and OSCOe tor many valuable suggestions .

