OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
James Clerk Maxwell was born in Edinburgh , on the 13th of June , 1831 .
His father , who was brother to Sir George Clerk , of Pennicuick , was at first known as John Clerk , but adopted the name of Maxwell on succeeding to an estate called Nether Corsock , which had come into the Clerk family through the marriage of a Miss Maxwell .
To this estate he added , by purchase , that of Glenlair , the name of which became afterwards closely associated with that of his son .
James Clerk Maxwell 's boyhood did not at first give much promise of distinction .
He was a quiet and not very sprightly child , though much given to reading , drawing pictures chiefly of animals , and constructing geometrical models .
At the Edinburgh Academy to which he was sent , he took no leading position among his schoolfellows till about the age of thirteen , when his mental faculties began to develop rapidly , so that he was soon in every department among the foremost of his contemporaries .
At this school he made the acquaintance of Professor Tait , the present occupant of the Chair of Natural Philosophy in Edinburgh University ; an acquaintance which , cemented as it was by kindred pursuits and interests , ripened into a close and lasting friendship .
Erom the Academy he passed to the University of Edinburgh , where , in 1847 , he attended the lectures of Kelland and Forbes , hor the next two or three years he had the privilege , to him invaluable , of using the class apparatus in private experiments .
W hat was the nature of some of those experiments we may conjecture from a pei'usal of his paper on Elastic Solids , written during this time , in which he describes some experiments made with the view of verifying the deductions of his theory in its applications to optics .
This paper was read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh on February 18 , 1850 , and cannot but be regarded as a wonderful production when we consider the age of its author .
This was the third paper which Maxwell had addressed to the same Society : the first , " On the Description of Oval Curves and those having a Plurality of Foci , " was read for him by Forbes in 1846 ; the second , under the title " The Theory of Rolling .Curves , " was presented by Kelland in 1849 .
All these papers , therefore , were written before he came into residence as an undergraduate at Cambridge in October , 1850 .
While an undergraduate at Cambridge , Maxwell carried on his b studies in a leisurely manner without producing , or at least without publishing , any original work .
He became in due course a scholar of the College .
He was also elected member of a literary club , coming thereby in contact with some of the most accomplished of his contemporaries .
In January , 1854 , he took the degree of B.A. , being Second Wrangler , but equal with the Senior Wrangler in the subsequent examination for the Smith 's Prizes .
Shortly after taking his degree , he produced a memoir " On the Transformation of Surfaces by Bending .
" By bending a surface is meant " a continuous change of the form of the surface without extension or contraction of any part of it , " and the problem Maxwell set himself was to discover some method at once simple and general in its application for the measurement of the change in question .
Besides its main purpose , which was to develop clearer ideas of the theory of bending , there are incidentally scattered through it good expositions of many points in the geometry of surfaces , as , for instance , the discussions on curvature and the deduction of Gauss 's and other expressions for specific curvature .
Up to this point we have directed attention to Maxwell 's papers in the order in which they were published , there being a special interest attaching to them on account of the very early period of life at which they were written .
It will be Convenient , however , to consider his published papers under some sort of classification , and this we propose to do further on ; in the meantime the leading events of his life subsequent to 1854 may now be briefly recorded .
In 1855 he was elected to a fellowship at Trinity , which he retained until his marriage in 1858 .
He was , however , subsequently elected to an honorary fellowship , a distinction which the College confers only upon the most gifted of her sons .
The latter honour was shared on the same occasion by Dr. Lightfoot , the present Bishop of Durham , the late Mr. Spedding , editor of Bacon 's works , and Professor Cayley .
In 1856 he was appointed Professor of Natural Philosophy in Marischal College , Aberdeen , where he continued till that College was united to her rival , King 's College , and formed into what is now known as the University of Aberdeen .
In 1858 , he married Katherine Dewar , daughter of the Principal of Marischal College .
During his tenure of the Aberdeen Professorship the subjects which appear to have engaged most of his attention were the Theory of Colours and the Stability of Saturn 's Rings , his essay on the latter subject obtaining for him the Adams Prize .
He also continued his study of Electricity , and in 1859 we have the first evidence that he was working at the Kinetic Theory of Gases .
In 1860 , after the unipn of the Colleges in Aberdeen , Maxwell Ill obtained the Professorship of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in King 's College , London .
While holding this office be produced some of his most valuable electrical papers , as well as two others on Elasticity .
During the same period he took a very prominent part in the experiments organised by a Committee of the British Association for the determination of electrical resistance in absolute measure , and for placing the units of electrical measurements on a satisfactory basis .
The experiments were conducted in the Laboratory of King 's College upon a plan due to Sir W. Thomson .
On this occasion Maxwell worked in conjunction with Professors Balfour Stewart and Fleeming .Tenkin , and the results were contained in a report to the British Association in 1863 .
Maxwell continued in London until his father 's death in 1865 , when he determined to reside on the Scotch estates to which he had succeeded , and resigned his professorship .
For some years after this he led a quiet life at Glenlair , devoting himself chiefly , we may conjecture , to the composition of his Treatises on Heat and on Electricity and Magnetism .
The most important memoirs from his pen about this period were on the Dynamical Theory of Gases , read to the Boyal Society in 1866 .
In 1871 he was elected to the newly-created chair of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge .
His first duties were to plan and superintend the building of the Cavendish Laboratory , which , with appropriate apparatus , was a gift to the University from the Chancellor , the Duke of Devonshire .
The admirable arrangements of this building were designed and carried out by Maxwell .
In October , 1871 , he delivered an introductory lecture , in which he made some very valuable observations on scientific education and the advantages afforded by the study of experimental physics , especially to that class of students in Cambridge which has produced so many distinguished mathematicians .
Addressing such students in particular , he warned them of the preliminary difficulties they would have to face in attempting to combine experimental practice with theory , but suggested at the same time motives which should encourage them to persevere in their efforts .
Besides the duties directly incumbent on a Professor of Physics , the preparation of treatises on the subjects of his chair now engaged Maxwell 's attention .
" The Theory of Heat , " the first edition of which appeared in 1871 , was at once hailed as a beautiful exposition of a comparatively new and interesting subject .
This work is indeed a model of scientific style , .
almost unique in the freshness and simplicity of its expositions , and possessing altogether a charm for the student of physical science , such as few other works of the kind are capable of imparting .
The Treatise on Electricity and b 2 iv Magnetism was published in 1873 ; an original and splendid work , destined , it is not rash to predict , to give colour and direction to our speculations on these subjects for many years to come .
Nor must we omit another species of work always performed by Maxwell kindly and conscientiously , professorial work , surely , of the very highest kind , that , viz. , of reading and reporting on papers contributed to learned societies by young aspirants to scientific fame .
This kind of work , of which much fell to Maxwell 's share , is but little known to the outside world , but involves when carefully performed a vast expenditure of time and trouble even on the part of the most accomplished specialist .
Besides performing these various duties , Maxwell took an active part in conducting the general business of the University , serving on the University Council , and otherwise , but especially in effecting those changes in the mathematical studies of Cambridge , which may be said to have amounted at this time almost to a revolution .
In accomplishing this , his published treatises already referred to bore in themselves a most important part , but the active share he took in drafting the scheme of the new examination , and the admirable questions he constructed in his capacity of examiner , no less contributed to the desired changes which were thus , thanks in a great measure to his sagacity , gradually and skilfully effected .
The direct influence of Maxwell on Cambridge studies began to be felt in 1866 , when he filled the office of Moderator in the Mathematical Tripos .
Maxwell 's questions infused fresh life into the Cambridge Tripos , and , therefore , into the University studies , by the number of original ideas and new lines of thought opened up by them , thus preparing for the change of system in 1873 , when so many interesting subjects were added to the examination .
From 1871 to 1879 , Maxwell 's pen was incessantly busy .
He wrote numerous more or less important mathematical papers , as well as a great many essays and reviews , to be found in the pages of " Nature .
" He also contributed several interesting articles to the " Encyclopaedia Britannica .
" Of his papers published during this period , those which probably rank highest in point of importance are the two memoirs connected with the Kinetic Theory of Gases .
Another undertaking in which he was long engaged , and which , though it proved to be exceedingly interesting , entailed a great deal of labour , was the editing of the " Electrical Researches " of the Hon. Henry Cavendish .
This work published in 1879 , has had the effect of increasing the reputation ot Cavendish , disclosing as it does the unsuspected advances which that acute physicist had made in the theory of Electricity , especially in the measurement of electrical resistance .
The work is enriched by a variety of valuable notes , in which the editor has sought to examine V Javendish 's views and results by the light of modern theory and methods .
Especially valuable are the methods applied to the determination of the electrical capacities of conductors and condensers , a subject in which Cavendish himself showed considerable skill , both of a mathematical and experimental kind .
During the later months of 1878 , and the beginning of 1879 , Maxwell 's health was not good , but no apprehensions of anything serious were felt by his friends .
In the month of May of the latter year he looked very ill .
Hopes were entertained , however , that when he returned to the bracing air of his country home he would soon recover .
But it was not to be .
He lingered through the summer months at Glenlair , with no signs of improvement , his spirits gradually sinking .
As a last resource he was brought back to Cambridge in October that he might be under the charge of his favourite physician , Dr. Paget .
Nothing , however , could be done for his malady , and , after a painful illness , he died on the 5th of November , 1879 , in his 49th year .
It is difficult to convey a correct impression of the variety and extent of Maxwell 's information on all sorts of subjects .
Knowledge of every kind was interesting to him , and there were few topics of conversation to which he could not bring his own peculiar light .
He was almost as much at home with the students of philosophy and theology as with those of physics .
But if there was one subject more than another in which his conversation was always interesting , it was the literature of his own country , his acquaintance with which , and especially with English poetry , was remarkable alike for its extent , its exactness , and the wide range of his sympathies .
His critical taste , founded as it was on his native sagacity , and a keen appreciation of literary beauty , was so true and discriminating that his judgment " was in such matters quite as valuable as on mathematical writings .
He wrote often in verse , chiefly poetical epistles to intimate friends , and occasional epigrams , but none of these have been published .
The published pieces are few in number , all dealing with some scientific movement , speculation or incident of the hour , and all conceived in a spirit of happy good-humoured banter .
With the exception of " Notes on the President 's Address , " British Association 1874 , when Dr. Tyndall was President , which appeared in " Blackwood , " these pieces are to be found in the pages of " Nature , " under the signature \#151 ; The invention of this signature is due to Professor Tait , in whose work on Thermodynamics , one of the equations of the subject is written in the form^== the right hand side of the equation being Maxwell 's Clt initials .
The list of Maxwell 's published memoirs and writings of every kind , vi exclusive of treatises , is a long one , numbering over 100 papers , many of which contain speculations of a profound character , worked out with elaborate details of calculation .
They treat of a variety of subjects , the most important of which are\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Electricity and Magnetism ; ( 2 .
) The Kinetic Theory of Gases ; ( 3 .
) Colour .
Perception ; ( 4 .
) Dynamics , including Astronomical Physics ; ( 5 .
) Elasticity ; ( 6 .
) Optics .
The two first named attracted more of his attention than the others , and his writings on them form a sort of continuous series in which we can follow the history of his ideas so as almost to trace their gradual development .
Thus , his first memoir on Electricity , entitled " On Faraday 's Lines of Force , " possesses an interest apart from its intrinsic value , containing as it does the germs of the theories and methods which reached their full growth in his great treatise on Electricity and Magnetism .
This memoir is in two parts , differing in object and treatment .
Whilst the first half aims at a vivid representation of Faraday 's conception of lines of electric and magnetic force , the second is a mathematical exposition of what Faraday calls the electrotonic state of bodies , and an analytical investigation , based on Faraday 's laws , of the electromotive forces acting on a conductor due to the motion of magnets or currents of electricity outside of it .
Faraday 's doctrine that electric and magnetic effects are conveyed by a medium and not by action at a distance , found in Maxwell an ardent believer , who set himself the task of searching out by what kind of mechanism this is accomplished .
His first attempt at an explanation is contained in a series of papers in the " Philosophical Magazine , " 1861-62 .
Beginning with magnetic phenomena , he points out that a medium transmitting magnetic action must be under a stress in which there is excess of pressure in all directions perpendicular to the lines of force , in other words , a stress consisting of a tension in the direction of the line of force combined with a hydrostatic pressure .
A stress of this character would be produced by a system of molecular vortices , the axes of which are in the direction of the lines of force .
A similar representation may be made of the stress due to the magnetic action of electric currents .
Taking , then a system of such vortices , he finds that the most general form of the expressions for the force components , due to the vortices at any point of the medium , is identical with that which would arise from magnets and electric currents .
In the course of the work the magnetic force is identified with the velocity of the vortex , and the coefficient of magnetic induction is ir times the density of the medium , or fi w/ \gt ; .
The chief difficulty is in the geometrical conception of the motion of the vortices , two parallel vortices moving in opposite directions , in those parts where they are contiguous .
Maxwell gets over this difficulty by supposing that the vortices are separated by layers of vii particles revolving , like " idle wheels " in mechanism , each on its own axis , in directions opposed to those of the vortices .
The motion of those particles he identifies with electric currents in the medium , and the description of how , by this mechanism , induced currents are originated , forms an interesting part of the theory .
The electromotive forces , that is , the forces on the particles from the vortices , are then found in the most general case of a medium in motion , the expressions being identical with those given in the " Electricity and Magnetism , " ii , S 598 .
Turning next to Statical Electricity , if we consider a dielectric under inductive action , we may conceive the electricity in each of the particles described above to be displaced , so that one side of the particle is positive and the other negative , the total quantity remaining the same .
The general effect on the dielectric will , therefore , be a displacement of the electricity , which will disappear when the exciting cause disappears .
We have here , then , something analogous to the phenomena exhibited by an elastic body under a state of stress , but recovering its form when the stress is removed .
If we denote the displacement by h , on this analogy the force will be given by an equation of the form R=\#151 ; 47tE3 where E is a constant depending on the dielectric .
In addition to the properties already described of the cells constituting the vortices , we must now suppose the substance of which they consist possessed of a certain elastic resilience , affecting by its tangential action the velocities of the particles , and in its turn affected by them , being distorted and thrown into a state of stress .
If , for simplicity , we omit the magnetic effects and suppose the cell to be spherical in form , and that its coefficients of cubic elasticity and rigidity are | -mand m such being the relative values of these quantities in an isotropic elastic medium according to the theory of Navier and Poisson , then it can be shown that E " = But the rate of propagation of transverse vibrations in an elastic medium is given by V=\An| p.And Hence E V\lt ; /fi .
Now , the force between two charges el5 e2 at distance r , can be deduced from the theory , viz. , it is E2e1e2/ r3 .
Hence the number of electrostatic units in one unit of the Vortices Theory , i.e. , of the Dynamical or Electromagnetic Theory , is E. If the medium be air / t = l , and therefore V = E. The value of E found by Weber and Kohlrausch was 310,740,000 metres .
On comparing this with Pizeau 's value of the velocity of light in air , viz. , 314,858,000 metres per second , Maxwell drew the inference , that " light consists in the transverse undulations of the same medium , which is the cause of the electric and magnetic phenomena .
" He also proved that the specific inductive capacity of a dielectric varies as the square of the index of refraction , and inversely as the coefficient of magnetic induction .
The last point discussed under the Vortices Theory is Faraday 's viii discovery of the rotation of the plane of polarisation of polarised light transmitted along the lines of magnetic force* To the question , how will the vibrations be affected by passing through a medium in a state of rotation , Maxwell 's results , as deduced from the theory , are in close accordance with the experimental laws given by Vetdet* The deductions drawn by Maxwell from his theory of Molecular Vortices were of so striking a character that it was impossible his mind could rest till he h\amp ; d still further examined their ' truth .
Accordingly we find that in less than three years after their publication he presented to the Royal Society a memoir , entitled " A Dynamical Theory of the Electromagnetic Field/ ' This , the most splendid of all his papers , places the theory of action through a medium on broader dynamical principles , and traces the connexions between the various characteristic quantities of the subject , twenty in all , more simply and more directly than he had formerly done* No adequate idea of this memoir can be given in a short notice , for it Contains matter enough , and on so many different branches of the subject , to furnish the texts of many ordinary papers .
The electromagnetic field is treated as a dynamical system possessed of different kinds of energy and under the action of various forces , the connexions between which are laid down with admirable clearness .
General mechanical principles are employed to illustrate the significance of the laws discovered by Faraday , and from this aspect and without the hypothesis of any particular mechanism , the equations of the electromagnetic field are simply deduced .
But besides this there are many interesting side issues and expositions .
Among these may be mentioned an experimental method of determining coefficients of induction by the electric balance , a theory of condensers , and the calculation of the self-induction and mutual induction of circular coils of wire .
The part of the memoir , however , which excites the liveliest interest , is the investigation of the electromagnetic theory of light .
The two grand results previously established by the theory of vortices are again proved , but without the aid of somewhat doubtful hypotheses , while in addition a very substantial confirmation of Maxwell 's views is obtained by the deduction of an equation for the velocity of wave propagation of electromagnetic disturbance in crystallised media identical with that found by Fresnel for light .
Maxwell published a few years later the results of some experiments he had made to determine the ratio of the electric units .
His number is 288.000 .
000 .
Sir William Thomson found 282,000,000 .
When we compare these numbers with that of Weber and Kohlrausch , it cannot be said that this quantity has yet been definitely determined .
The same is true of the velocity of light , the lowest value of which is 298.000 .
000 metres per second .
We cannot , therefore , affirm with certainty that Maxwell 's inference is correct , but there is a strong primd facie presumption in its favour .
ix The papers to which we have called attention by no means exhaust the list of Maxwell 's contributions to electrical science , but they are the most important , Most of what he wrote found its proper place in the treatise on Electricity and Magnetism , which is in a great measure the outcome and product of his study of Faraday 's researches and of his own speculations and labours .
The theory that the properties of a gas are due to the action of invisible molecules in rapid motion was propounded by several writers before Maxwell , and an explanation had been given of Boyle 's law that the product of the pressure and volume of a gas is constant for the same temperature .
Herapath had also given an explanation of diffusion , and Joule had calculated the mean velocity of the molecules of various gases .
The most important advance was , however , made by Clausius , whose first memoir " On the kind of motion which we call heat " contains a very clear exposition of the theory , and establishes that the vis viva , of the translatory motion of the gas does not represent the whole of the heat in it .
His second memoir treats of the mean length of path described by a molecule , and an expression is obtained for it in terms of the average distance of the particles , and the distance between their centres at collision .
The paper is valuable not so much on account of this result , which in fact is different from that subsequently obtained when the subject was more fully developed , but because it led the way in bringing the kinetic theory fairly under the domain of mathematics .
Maxwell perceived the importance of Clausius ' work , and his first paper contains an attempt to complete the investigation of the mean path .
This paper , entitled " Illustrations of the Dynamical Theory of Grases , " was read before the British Association in 1859 , and published in the " Philosophical Magazine " of the following year .
Theories , mathematically developed , are here - given of the internal friction of gases , the conduction of heat through a gas , and the diffusion of one gas through another , One or other of these phenomena , he thought , ought to yield an accurate expression for the length of the mean path .
He supposes the molecules to be hard perfectly elastic spheres , and investigates the laws of motion of a system of such molecules acting on one another , only during impact .
His method is first of all to discuss the motion of two molecules under their mutual action , and having discovered the changes in their velocities and directions due to an encounter , to apply what he has happily termed the statistical method to determine the mutual action of two systems .
The methods he employs for this purpose , founded on the mathematical theory of probabilities , are remarkable for their elegance and for greater generality than had been attempted by previous writers .
Maxwell 's next contribution to the Kinetic Theory of Gases was the Bakerian Lecture to the Royal Society in 1866 , " On the Viscosity or Internal Friction of Air and other Gases .
" This is an account of experiments to determine the coefficient of gaseous friction .
He employed for this purpose the oscillations of three disks placed between fixed disks , and capable of motion about a common axis , the quantity observed being the successive times of oscillation of the movable disks .
The chief results of this paper are , that the coefficient of friction is ( 1 ) independent of the density of the gas , ( 2 ) proportional to its absolute temperature .
The second of these laws involves the rejection of the hypothesis of the impact of hard elastic particles , leading as it does to proportionality of the square root of the temperature .
Accordingly , Maxwell 's next memoir " On the Dynamical Theory of Gases , " following closely on the Bakerian Lecture , propounds a theory in closer agreement with his experiments .
Instead of hard elastic spheres , he now substitutes " small bodies or groups of smaller molecules , repelling one another with a force whose direction passes very nearly through the centres of gravity of the molecules , and whose magnitude is represented very nearly by some function of the distance of the centres of gravity .
" The necessity of supposing groups of molecules arises from the fact that , in a body of invariable form , the motions of its parts relatively to the centre of gravity consists entirely of rotations which the supposed force is incapable of generating , whereas a group of loosely-connected bodies may have oscillations among themselves as well as rotations .
That the energy of the system cannot be entirely translational had been previously pointed out by Clausius .
In this memoir the statistical method is restated more fully , clearly , and systematically than before , but the only law of force between the molecules which leads to simple results is the inverse fifth power of the distance .
This law being adopted , the general 'equations resulting are applied to a variety of problems : in ( a ) , proving Dalton 's law for the pressure of a mixture of gases ; ( b ) , explaining Graham 's experiments on the diffusion of carbonic acid and air ; ( c ) , proving Graham 's law for the interdiffusion of gases contained in different vessels connected by a very small hole ; finding the equilibrium condition as regards temperature for a mixture of gases , and again establishing Gay-Lussac 's law ; ( e ) , finding expressions for the specific heats of gases on Clausius ' assumption that the whole energy bears a constant ratio to that of translation ; ( f ) , proving the laws of viscosity , the same as those stated above ; finding the viscosity of a mixture of gases , which , if not in close agreement with the results of Graham 's experiments , at least exhibits the same general peculiarities ; ( A ) , proving that in a column of air the temperature is independent of gravity ; ( i ) , deducing an expression for the conductivity .
It is impossible to read this comprehensive memoir without being impressed by the boldness and sagacity of the author 's genius , or without admiring the simplicity of system he has introduced into a subject , at first sight unapproachable from its difficulties .
At the same time , we must remember that the hypothesis on which he builds is a particular one , and could only be accepted on its being found that the conclusions are borne out by facts .
Now the law that the viscosity varies as the absolute temperature has not been verified by other experimenters on this subject .
It has been found that the law of variation is a power of the temperature somewhat lower than the first .
But though we cannot , therefore , accept the author s conclusions without qualification , we must still regard his investigation as a brilliant and determined effort to reach the true theory to which it must form a close approximation .
The methods employed by Maxwell were afterwards generalised by Boltzmann , who succeeded in so modifying the proofs of many of the theorems as to make them independent of any hypothesis as to the nature of the encounter between the molecules .
Maxwell to some extent adopted Boltzmann 's more general treatment of the theory m his next memoir ( 1878 ) " On Stresses in Rarefied Gases arising from Inequalities of Temperaturebut he ultimately found himself compelled to fall back on his former special hypothesis .
In this memoir he aims at an explanation of the forces producing motion in Crookes 's Radiometer . .
, \#163 ; The statistical computation of the motion of a gas deprived of that regularity which uniformity of temperature permitted is by no means easy , and accordingly the work forms an elaborate application of the principles developed in the paper of 1866 .
It is shown , however , that the effect of inequality of temperature is to produce a stress in the gas whose components are comparable wit the forces necessary to produce the motion of the radiometer wheel .
If we take account only of the normal components of this stress it is possible to frame an explanation of that motion by their agency .
When , however , the general equations of the motion of the gas are also determined , it appears that so long as the flow of heat is steady the equations are the same as when the temperature is uniform .
" How then are we to account for the fact that forces act between solid bodies immersed in rarefied gases , and this apparently as long as inequalities of temperature are maintained ?
" The explanation , Maxwell thinks , is to be found in the fact that the gas in contact with the surface of a solid must slide over it with a finite velocity in order to produce a finite tangential stress .
This he is not able to show , but m an appendix to the memoir added in May , 1879 , the conditions which must be satisfied at the boundary between a solid and a gas are investigated in a very ingenious manner , the results showing that " a gas xii may slide over the surface with a finite velocity , and that this velocity and the corresponding tangential stress are affected by inequalities of temperature at the surface of the solid , tending to make the gas slide from colder to hotter places .
" The latter result , as a deduction from the Kinetic Theory , had been previously obtained in another way by Professor O. Reynolds .
The stress which is the result of this theory would help to account for the radiometer motion , In this memoir are interpolated various notes dated May , 1879 , in which the application of Spherical Harmonics is briefly indicated as a means of simplifying the mathematical parts of the work , The failure of the author 's health prevented him from afterwards following out this interesting extension of the subject .
Another important memoir was presented to the Cambridge Philosophical Society in May , 1878 , " On Boltzmann 's Theorem on the Average Distribution of Energy in a System of Material Points .
" This paper is remarkable alike for the comprehensive character of the assumptions as regards the forces aoting between the points , the closeness and condensation of the reasoning , and the generality of the theorems proved .
It is impossible , however , to describe them with sufficient brevity in a short notice .
Passing to the particular problem of the equilibrium of temperatures of two gases , we find the author once more examines Gay-Lussae 's law* and points out that the theorem that the average kinetic energy of a single molecule is the same for molecules of different gases* is not sufficient for the equilibrium of a mixture of gases , because we have no means of finding out the separate temperatures of the two ; the case would be different if the gases were separated by a diaphragm .
Another interesting application of the general results is made to the theory of Loschmidt 's experiments on the diffusion of gases .
These experiments were made with a tube into which was put a gas or a mixture of gases* and the tube was then whirled about one end ; and the ultimate distributions of the gases* with the times of attaining to them , formed the subject of investigation .
Prom this review of Maxwell 's chief contributions to the Kinetic Theory of Gases , imperfect though it be , it will be seen that , if he was not the discoverer of this new region of inquiry , he yet explored it more thoroughly than any of his predecessors ; he bore a leading part in evolving the general laws to which it must be subject , reducing it to order , and pointing out in what directions it would be most fruitful .
Maxwell took up the theory of Colour Perception at the point where Young had left it .
According to Young 's theory , there are three distinct varieties of nerves , sensitive to red , green , and violet light respectively , and by the superposition of these sensations when aroused in the sensorium the colours of external objects are xiii represented .
Maxwell 's object was to submit this theory to the test of measurement .
For this purpose he employed an apparatus now well known as his Colour Top , in which a system of coloured disks could be arranged round the axis of the top , so that a sector of any required angular magnitude of each colour might be exposed .
When this system was spun rapidly it assumed the appearance of a single tint .
Young had himself employed an apparatus of a similar character , consisting of circles painted with different colours .
The merit of Maxwell 's top is in the ease with which the proportions of the colours can be changed and definite measures taken of them .
His plan of experimenting was to obtain matches between various mixtures of colours from the coloured disks , and these matches were expressed by colour equations .
Having selected three colours as standards of reference , the choice being guided by the variety of combinations producible from them , he was enabled , from the great , number ot colour equations he obtained , to construct a colour diagram on the principle suggested by Newton .
The standard colours being at the angular points of an equilateral triangle , any other colour , with a proper coefficient attached to it , could be represented by a point m the diagram , so that from a knowledge of this coefficient and the position of the point , it is possible to say how the colour in question may be obtained from the standards or combined with one or two of them to form a match with the remainder .
Any colour which can be produce by a mixture of two of the standards will be represented by a point on the side of the triangle joining them , and any colour from a mixture o the three by a point inside the triangle .
Had the standards , mstea of being arbitrary , been the three primary colours , any other colour would be obtainable from them by their mixture .
Maxwell shows how one of the primary colours may be obtained .
Colour-blindness is due to the absence of one of the three primary sensations , and theretore from the colour equations of the colour-blind it is possible to localise on the diagram the tint corresponding to the absent sensation .
1 rom experiments on two colour-blind subjects he found the tint wa ?
a red approaching to crimson .
The Colour Top was afterwards abandoned for another apparatus ot an ingenious character , known as the Colour Box , by means of which the proportions of three colours forming white light of constant intensity could be accurately measured .
The main object of the measurements was to determine the positions of the colours of the spectrum on the colour diagram .
The standard colours in this case were red , green , and blue of ascertained wave-lengths .
In all , sixteen definite points of the spectrum were examined , these points being determine y a contrivance in the apparatus for obtaining measures by which tin wave-lengths of all the colours admitted could be found .
The results of these elaborate experiments showed that from the red to the greer xiv the positions lie nearly in one straight line , and from the green to the blue in another , the chief divergence being at the red and blue ends .
The conclusion is that there are three primary colours in the spectrum , red , green , and blue , by mixture of which colours chromatically identical with the other colours of the spectrum can be obtained .
The position of the green is one-fourth from the line E towards the line F , but the red and blue cannot be satisfactorily placed .
Young 's theory was examined by Helmholtz as well as by Maxwell , with the like result , which was to confirm its truth .
If we pass to other subjects we must regard the essay on Saturn 's Rings as a most valuable investigation on account of the important results it contains .
Some of these we will now mention .
The author first establishes that the stability of a. uniform solid ring revolving round the planet is impossible .
If we suppose the ring loaded at a point of its circumference a possible case of stability is obtained , but the load must be between *8158 and *8279 of the whole mass of the ring .
So irregular a distribution of the mass is very improbable , and would be found by observation .
When , in addition , we consider the immense size of the rings\#151 ; an iron ring of such a size would be exceedingly plastic under the forces it would experience , \#151 ; when we consider also their comparative thinness , it is impossible to regard them as rigid .
The stability of a ring of equal satellites is then examined .
Disturbances perpendicular to the plane of such a ring cannot produce instability .
In .
the plane of the ring the greatest danger to stability will exist when the number of undulations of the circle of satellites supposed oscillating about their mean positions is the greatest possible , that is , when equal to half the number of satellites .
In that case , for stability , the mass of the planet must be greater than '4352/ t2 times the mass of the ring , where fi is the number of satellites .
If this condition hold , four distinct oscillations of different periods and amplitudes will run round the circle of satellites .
Results similar in their general outlines , though necessarily characterised by greater complexity , hold in the case of a ring of unequal satellites .
The next hypothesis examined is that of an annular cloud of meteoric stones revolving uniformly about the planet .
It is shown that the average density of such a cloud must be less than 300 times that of the planet , otherwise destructive oscillations will be set up in the ring .
So low a density has been shown by Laplace to be impossible in a ring revolving as a whole , so that the outer and inner portions cannot have the same angular velocity .
\gt ; The final conclusion is that the rings of Saturn are composed of an indefinite number of free particles revolving round the planet with velocities depending on their distances from his centre .
The particles may be arranged in a series of concentric rings , or they may XV form a confused multitude revolving , but not arranged in rings , and constantly coming into collision .
In the first case the mutual perturbations of two rings may at length reach so great a magnitude as to cause their destruction .
In the second the destructive tendency is more rapid , though it may be retarded by the particles settling down into concentric rings .
The most important contributions by Maxwell to the theory of Elasticity are his paper on " Reciprocal Frames and Diagrams of Forces , " printed in the " Philosophical Magazine , " 1864 , and a memoir under an almost identical title read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1870 .
These papers contain many beautiful theorems on the geometry and mechanics of frameworks , interesting from a purely theoretical point of view , but also leading to important practical results .
The memoir of 1870 constitutes a substantial addition to the subject of elasticity , and some of the graphical methods have been adopted and extended in works on engineering .
The mathematical treatment of the graphical method of internal stiess in this paper is remarkable for the beauty and symmetry of the expressions and theorems obtained .
In the foregoing sketch of Maxwell 's writings we have grouped them according to subjects rather than dates , thinking that in this way a clear view would be gained of what he actually did in each subject .
We have thus been enabled to bring into prominence his greatest memoirs and their connexions with one another .
But there is still a large number of mathematical papers , struck off from time to time , and more or less important , of which we must omit any detailed account .
Among these are his papers on The Dynamical Top , on ( Governors , on the General Eaws of Optical Instruments , on Hamilton 's Characteristic Function .
There is also a large class of miscellaneous essays on scientific subjects , which , though not marked by the same intellectual power as his great memoirs , are yet possessed of distinctive excellences of their own .
This class comprehends ( u ) Articles in the " Encyclopaedia Britannica , " to which may be added an elementary manual on Matter and Motion ; ( t ) his Addresses to the British Association , to the London Mathematical Society , and the Chemical Society , the Rede Lecture at Cambridge , and Lectures at the Royal Institution ; ( c ) Essays and Reviews contributed to " Nature .
In some of these essays the author allowed himself a greater latitude in the use of mathematical symbols and processes than ii others , the articles " Atom , " " Capillary Attraction , " " Constitution oi Bodies , " " Diffusion , " in the " Encyclopaedia Britannica , ' being , ii fact , brief treatises on these subjects treated mathematically .
Tin subjects of his lectures and addresses were , in the majority of cases one or other of those three departments of physics he had done s\lt ; much to extend\#151 ; Colour Perception , Action through a Medium xvi Molecular Physics .
The Reviews in " Nature " were criticisms of important memoirs or treatises on subjects in which he was interested .
In the whole series of these writings we find the same clear and graceful delineation of principles , the same beauty in arrangement of subject , the same force and precision in proofs and illustrations .
The style is simple and singularly free from any kind of haze or obscurity , rising to a strain of subdued eloquence whenever the emotional aspects of the subject overcome the purely speculative .
In the memoirs and the treatises we find a like clearness in the statement of principles combined with the use of an analysis at once direct and forcible , though perhaps unnecessarily condensed .
It is seldom that the faculties of invention and exposition , the attachment to physical science and capability of developing it mathematically , have been found existing in one mind to the same degree .
It would , however , require powers somewhat akin to Maxwell 's own to describe the more delicate features of the works resulting from this combination , every one of which is stamped with the subtle but unmistakeable impress of genius .
Dr. John Jeremiah Bigsby was born at Nottingham on the 14th August , 1792 .
He was the eldest son of Dr. Bigsby , who practised for many years at Nottingham ; and , as he was destined for the medical profession , he was sent first to St , Andrew 's and afterwards to Edinburgh University to pursue his medical studies .
In 1814 , he received the degree of Doctor in Medicine from the University of Edinburgh ; and , with the object of acquiring a practical knowledge of his profession , he obtained in the same year the appointment of resident physician ( or physician 's clerk as it was then named ) in the Edinburgh Infirmary , the duties of which office he discharged with great assiduity , while from his amiable disposition , and the interest he took in his work , he won the esteem of everyone with whom he became associated .
After the practical experience he had gained in the infirmary he entered the medical department of the army in 1816 , and was employed for some years in various parts of Canada , which not only gave him the opportunity of improving his knowledge as a military practitioner but fostered a growing taste for geological pursuits , which latter was subsequently greatly strengthened by visiting various parts of the United States , including New York , Washington , and Philadelphia .
His reputation as a geologist led to his being appointed , in 1822 , Secretary and Medical Officer to the Boundary Commission which had been in operation for a few years .
Dr. Bigsby left the army in 1823 , and settled in Newark-on-Trent , where he practised his profession as a consulting physician for a period of more than twenty years , and having acquired , partly by marriage , XV11 a moderate competence , he finally settled in London as a retired physician , where he resided during the rest of his long and well-spent life .
He had now leisure and opportunity for pursuing his favourite geological investigations , and became a contributor to the Transactions of the Geological Society , " of which he had been for many years one of the Fellows , as well as to those of American Societies .
But the work by which Dr. Bigsby was chiefly known , and to which he had devoted almost exclusively the last twenty-five years of his life , was entitled " Thesaurus Siluricus , " which comprised a list of such of the Silurian fossils as had been described .
This work was published in 1868 , a grant having been made in aid of its publication from the Government Grant .
In the following year Dr. Bigsby was elected a Fellow of this Society , and in the same year received the Murchison medal from the Geological Society .
To show his interest in geology , Dr. Bigsby presented , some years ago , a sum of money to the Geological Society for the purpose of founding a medal to be adjudicated biennially by the Council for the promotion of geological science , the stipulations being that , preferentially , the recipient should have studied American geology , should not be more than 45 years of age , and " thus probably not too old for further work , and not too young to have done much .
Dr. Bigsby 's scientific attainments were not more remarkable than his many estimable qualities in private life .
For many years indeed to the end of his long life\#151 ; he was noted for his unostentatious charity , and for the unceasing interest he took in the education of the poor children in his immediate neighbourhood .
His well-stored mind and his geniality rendered him a most agreeable companion , and endeared him to a large circle of attached friends .
He was , in every respect , the type of a Christian gentleman .
His last illness was short , and he passed away without suffering at his residence in Gloucester Place at the advanced age of 89 .
John Gould , the Ornithologist , or the " Birdman as he prefened to call himself , was born of humble parentage at Lyme Regis , in Dorsetshire , in November , 1804 .
When the boy was about fourteen years of age his father was appointed foreman of the gardeners at Windsor Castle , and Gould became one of the staff .
Under the care of Mr. J. T. Aiton , the head gardener of the Royal Gardens , Gould passed several years , and during this period seems first to have exhibited the intense love of birds and bird-life which has rendered his name so justly celebrated .
About the year 1827 , Mr. Vigors required a taxidermist for the collection of the newly-formed Zoological Society of London , and asked for an exhibition of the skill of the various applicants for the 0 xviii post .
Gould 's artistic talent in bird-stuffing , which he had studiously cultivated for some years , rendered him facile among the competitors , and obtained him the appointment .
While occupant of this post in 1830 , Gould received a collection of bird skins from the Himalayas\#151 ; a district at that time almost unexplored .
This opportunity Gould embraced with characteristic energy , and thus laid the foundation of his fame and fortune .
Mr. Vigors was naturally anxious to describe the novelties , and Gould employed his lately married wife , who had been educated as a governess , and had great artistic talent , to figure them .
Thus was produced Gould 's first illustrated bird book\#151 ; the so-called " Century of Birds from the Himalaya Mountains , " by far the most accurately illustrated work on foreign ornithology that had been issued up to that period .
In size the " Century " rivalled the folios of Le Vaillant , but far surpassed them in the excellence of the plates .
The success of the " Century " was so great that in 1882 the " Birds of Europe " was commenced on a similar scale , and completed in due course in five volumes , while during the progress of this work the first editions of the well-known " Monographs " of the Toucans and Trogons were also issued , and frecjuent contributions made to the Zoological Society 's " Proceedings " and H Transactions .
" \V g now come to the most important and striking episode of Gould s career .
The birds of the great continent of Australia were at that time almost unknown , except from the scattered notices of older authors , and from an essay by Vigors and Horsfield on the specimens from that country contained in the Linnean Society s collection .
Gould determined to make a special expedition to Australia for the purpose of investigating its ornithology .
In 1838 he left England for this purpose , accompanied by his wife , and devoted two years to the exploration of Tasmania , South Australia , and Hew South Wales .
A large series of birds ' skins as well as of their nests and eggs were collected , besides specimens of the mammals , while a mass of valuable and original observations were made upon their habits and distribution .
On Gould 's return to this country , the great folio work on the " Birds of Australia " was at once commenced , and completed in 1848 , after seven years ' unremitting labour .
The companion work on the " Mammals of Australia , " forming three volumes , with 182 plates , was completed in I860 , After the " Birds of Australia , " the most important work accomplished by Gould was certainly his " Monograph of the Trochi-lid\#171 ; e , " or " Humming Birds , " commenced in 1850 , and finished in 1861 .
For many years Gould had been an assiduous collector of specimens of this lovely group , and in 1851 exhibited his collection in the gardens of the Zoological Society .
Very large additions , however , were made to it after that period , and in fact , continued to be XIX made until within a short period of his death , so that in the collection recently acquired by the British Museum , there were upwards of five thousand examples of birds of this family .
Shortly after the completion of the " Humming Birds , " Gould commenced his work on the " Birds of Great Britain , " which he affirmed had never been properly illustrated .
Whatever may be other opinions upon this point , it is certain that Gould 's five volumes upon this sub--ject , which were completed in 1873 , added vastly to our knowledge upon many points , besides giving us the most complete set of pictures of our native birds yet issued .
Special pains were bestowed on the plates of this work , which may in some cases , perhaps , be said to be slightly overcoloured , but the natural attitudes of the various species , and the selection of appropriate surroundings , have never been surpassed in any work of natural history .
Besides the works already specially mentioned , Gould issued other folio volumes , such as the " Monograph of the Odontophormse , " and second editions of the " Toucans " and " Trogons , " the whole series forming altogether forty-one folio volumes , illustrated by 2999 plates , a performance quite unrivalled in any other branch of literature .
Gould was also the author of upwards of 300 memoirs and papers published in the " Proceedings of the Zoological Society , " and m other periodicals .
For the last five or six years of his life , Gould was m failing health .
Though suffering from a tedious and painful malady , he never ceased to work , and even within a few months of his death had planned a new monograph , and issued the first part of it .
Goulc died on the 3rd of February , 1881 , in his seventy-seventh year , in is house in Charlotte Street , near the British Museum , where he had lived for the last twenty years of his life .
His collection of birds as passed , to the great satisfaction of all naturalists , into the collection ot the British Museum .
Gould was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1843 , and was for many years an active Member of Council an Vice-President of the Society with which he had become origina v connected in the humble capacity of bird stuffer .
P. L. S. Robert Mallet was born in " Dublin on the 3rd June , 1810 , ami died in London on the 5th November , 1881 .
He was the son of Mr. John Mallet , well-known as an ironfounder in the city of Dublin .
He entered Trinity College in 1826 and graduated in Arts m 1830 .
He became a member of the Royal Irish Academy in 1832 , of the Society of Civil Engineers of Ireland in 1836 , and of the Chamber of Commerce of Dublin in 1837 , and afterwards became an Associate and Member of the Institution of Civil Engineers of England in 1839 and 1842 He obtained , in 1841 , the Walker Premium from the Institution of Civil Engineers for raising the roof of St. George 's Church , Dublin .
Robert Mallet was elected an honorary member of the Society of Arts of Scotland , 1840 , of the Academy of Science , Arts , and Belles Lettres of Dijon ( 1853 ) , a Fellow of the Royal Society ( 1854 ) , an honorary member of the United Service Institution ( 1857 ) , Fellow of the Geological Society of London ( 1859 ) , add corresponding member of the Physical Class of the Royal Philosophical Society of Gottingen , 1869 .
In 1846 , Robert Mallet read before the Royal Irish Academy , a remarkable paper on the " Dynamics of Earthquakes , " which was the commencement of a long series of contributions to a branch of physical geology with which his name will always be associated .
The chief of these contributions were ( in addition to , that just named):\#151 ; 1 .
Earthquake Catalogue of the British Association ( 1858).* 2 .
The Great Neapolitan Earthquake of 1857 ( 2 vols .
, 1862 ) .
3 .
Volcanic Energy ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1872 ) .
For these valuable contributions to physical geology he received the Cunningham Medal of the Royal Irish Academy ( 1862 ) , and the Wollaston Medal of the Geological Society of London ( 1877 ) .
In 1855 he read before the Royal Irish Academy a paper on the Construction of Artillery of a large Calibre , in consequence of which he was elected a special honorary member of the Royal Artillery Institution , Woolwich ( 1867 ) .
In 1859 he received the Telford Medal of the Institution of Civil Engineers , for his paper on the Coefficients of Elasticity and Rupture in Wrought Iron .
In scientific thought , Robert Mallet was remarkable for the originality of his ideas , and for the broad grasp he took of every subject that engaged his attention ; in private and social life he was beloved for the kindness , geniality , and humour of his disposition , for his readiness in conversation and uniform good temper .
Arthur Penrhyn Stanley , D.D. , Dean of Westminster , died after a brief illness , on the 18th of July , 1881 , in the sixty-sixth year of his age .
The profound sorrow with which the unexpected announcement filled the hearts of all persons in the country of every class and creed , from the Queen , of whom he was , to use her own words , a " most trusted friend and adviser , !
' to the poorest of her subjects , has been so abundantly chronicled in newspapers , magazines and sermons , that it need not be further referred to here .
Nor is this the place to speak in any detail of his remarkable position as an ecclesiastica politician , as a theologian or historian ; but though without claims to be considered a man of science , so eminent a Fellow of the Society must * In preparing this catalogue lie was assisted by bis son , J. W. Mallet , at that time Professor of Chemistry in the University of Alabama .
XXI not be allowed to pass away without some record of his career in our obituary notices .
Dean Stanley was born at Alderley in Cheshire , on December 13th , 1815 .
His father , a brother of the first Lord Stanley of Alderley , and then Rector of the parish , was afterwards better known as the energetic , liberal , and enlightened Bishop of Norwich , who among many other accomplishments , was an enthusiastic ornithologist , the author of a still favourite book , the " Familiar History of Birds , " and for many years President of the Linnean Society .
The future Dean , though he did not inherit his father 's taste for science , always took interest in and welcomed its progress .
This spirit , which pervaded all his writings and conduct , may be illustrated by the following characteristic passage from his sermon on Sir Charles Lyell , preached in Westminster Abbey in 1875 , " The tranquil triumph of geology , " he says , " once thought so dangerous , now so quietly accepted by the church , no less than by the world , is one more proof of the groundlessness of theological panics in the face of the advances of scientific discovery .
" He was educated under Dr. Arnold , at Rugby , and commenced a brilliant career at Oxford by obtaining a scholarship at Balliol , and shortly after the Newdigate Prize for his English poem , " The Gipsies .
" After gaining the Ireland scholarship , he took a first class in classics in 1837 , gained the Chancellor 's prize for the Latin Essay in 1839 , won the English Essay and the Ellerton Theological Prizes , and was elected a Fellow of University College in 1840 , where for twelve years he was tutor .
He did good service in the cause of university reform , by acting as Secretary to the Oxford University Commission of 1850\#151 ; 52 , and was about the same time made a Canon of Canterbury Cathedral .
In 1853 , he returned to Oxford as Regius Professor of Ecclesiastical History , and Canon of Christchurch , which office he held until his appointment in 1863 to the Deanery of Westminster , a position which he held up to the time of his death , and which he filled in such a manner as to have given the Abbey a place in the history of the religious thought and feeling of the nation , which it had never taken before .
His marriage about the same time with Lady Augusta Bruce , contributed to make the Deanery from that time forth a centre of all that was intellectual , cultivated , and refined in English society , and at the same time a place where persons of any distinction , whatever their class , creed , or opinions , were equally welcome , and could meet on equal terms .
He was elected F.R.S. in 1863 , and in 1875 was chosen Lord Rector of the University of St. Andrew 's .
The first published work by which Dean Stanley was generally known , was his " Life and Letters of Dr. Arnold ' a work generally admitted to be almost without a rival in modern biography , both for the interest of its subject and the accomplished grace of its treatment .
This has been followed by " Lectures on the Jewish VOL. xxxiii .
o XXII Church , " in three volumes , " Lectures on the Eastern Church , " numerous sermons and essays , " Historical Memorials of Canterbury and of Westminster , " and " Sinai and Palestine , " which contains the most vividly picturesque topographical , and historical descriptions of those countries to be found in the language , based on observations made in a journey to the -East in 1852-53 .
The series of sermons which he deemed it part of his duty to preach in the Abbey on all occasions of national and historical interest , will , it is hoped , shortly be published in a collected form .
The wide-spread and enduring popularity of these numerous works is due not only to the intrinsic interest of the subjects chosen , and the brilliance , grace , and charm of the language in which they are written , but also in great measure to the spirit with which they are animated\#151 ; aspirit which though it can be discerned through all he wrote , could only be fully appreciated by those who knew him personally , for his were , in the words of his successor to the Deanery , " the courage which never looked behind to see who followed as he sprang forward in the defence of anyone whom he deemed unfairly overborne by intolerance or injustice , the inexhaustible fund of tenderness that never failed his friends in the hour of distress , the indescribable gifts and graces that defied analysis which won him not only the undying love of those that knew him , but the hearts of multitudes who never saw him , the imagination , the genius , and the knowledge that cast such a flood of light on the persons , the places , the events , the scenes of so many stages of human history , the ardour that threw itself so keenly into all the interests of the present and all the problems of the future , the purity of heart that made men feel that they could not think of evil in his presence , the largeness of heart that tried so earnestly ' to knit the knots of peace and love throughout all Christian lands , ' and the voice that year after year pleaded so eagerly for * whatsoever things are lovely , whatsoever things are pure , whatsoever things are of good report .
' " Sib Philip de Malpas Geey Egekton , Bart. , M.P. , of Oulton Park , Cheshire , died at his London residence on the morning of April 1 , 1881 , after only a few days ' illness .
He was the eldest son of the Rev. Sir Philip Grey Egerton , the ninth baronet , and was born on November 13th , 1806 .
After passing his schooldays at Eton , he entered at Christ Church , Oxford , where he graduated in 1828 .
" While still an undergraduate he exhibited a great taste for geology , and studied under Buckland and Conybeare ; and it was at this time , in conjunction with his intimate friend and college companion , Lord Cole\#151 ; now Earl of Enniskillen\#151 ; that he devoted himself to the formation of a collection of fossil fish .
Together with Lord Cole he travelled through Germany , Switzerland , and Italy for the purposes of xxiii study and collection ; and in 1833 there appeared m the ' Philosophical Magazine " a catalogue of the fossil fish in their joint collections with references to the localities , geological positions , and published descriptions of the species .
The ardour of the two collectors never ceased and in 1841 a catalogue of fossil fish in the collections of the Earl of Enniskillen and Sir P. Grey Egerton was published in the " Annals of Natural History ; " and in 1869 an alphabetical catalogue of the type specimens in Sir Philip 's collection was printed in the " Geological Magazine .
" The two collections that thus went on side by side are undoubtedly the most complete that have ever been formed by private individuals , and mutually illustrate each other .
^ That formed by the Earl of Enniskillen has fortunately been acquired by the Trustees of the British Museum , and there appears to be some prospect of Sir Philip Egerton 's collection becoming also the property of the nation .
The two series , in conjunction with the specimens already in the national collection , will probably render it unrivalled in the department of fossil Ichthyology .
Sir Philip was , however , not merely a collector , but a careful and scientific observer and a good naturalist .
His memoirs on fossil fishes , for the most part contained in the publications of the Geological ' Society of London and in the " Decades of the Geological Survey , " are upwards of seventy in number , and many of them ol great importance .
He was also the author of various papers on fossi .
reptiles , on ossiferous caves , and on other subjects .
He became a Fellow of the Geological Society in the year 1829 , anc was elected F.R.S. in February , 1881 , having thus been a member o : our body for upwards of fifty years .
His memoir on " Chondrostens an Extinct Genus of the Sturionidae found in the Lias Formation ai Lyme Regis , " was printed in the " Phil. Trans. " for 1858 .
For hi !
distinguished services in geological and palaeontological science In received from the President and Council of the Geological Society tin Wollaoton Medal in 1878 .
At the time of his death he was the senior elected Trustee of tin British Museum , one of the original Trustees of the British Associa tion for the Advancement of Science , a Trustee of the Royal Collegt of Surgeons of London , and a member of the Senate of the Univer sifcy of London .
His public as well as his scientific services were great .
He was s Deputy Lieutenant and a Justice of the Peace for Cheshire , anc Lieutenant-Colonel of the Cheshire Yeomanry Cavalry .
Either a Member of Parliament for the City of Chester or for the Southern o Western Divisions of Cheshire , he sat in the House of Commons from the year 1830 , being of late the oldest member but one of tha House .
Of a genial and kind disposition , of great business ability , and o xxiv good judgment and wide experience , Sir Philip Egerton was of great assistance at the meetings of any body of which he was a member , and his loss is deplored not only by the councils of more than one learned society but by a large circle of attached friends .
Professor Rolleston 's death , which took place at Oxford on June 16 , may well be called premature , as he was in the prime of life , and but a few months before seemed to all , except a few closely observant intimate associates , still in the plenitude of his powers , and capable of much good work in time to come .
The son of a Yorkshire clergyman , he was born at Maltby on July 30 , 1829 , and had therefore not completed his fifty-second year .
His early aptitude for classical studies , carried on under the instruction of his father , must have been most remarkable if , as has been stated in one of his biographies , he was able at the age of ten to read any passage of Homer at sight .
He was not educated at one of the great public schools , but entered at Pembroke College , Oxford , took a First Class in Classics in 1850 , and was elected a Fellow of his College in 1851 .
He then studied medicine at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , joined the staff of the British Civil Hospital at Smyrna during the latter part of the Crimean War , was appointed assistant-physician to the Children 's Hospital in London , 1857 , but took up his residence again at Oxford in the same year on receiving the appointment of Lee 's Reader in Anatomy at Christ Church .
In 1860 he was elected to the newly-founded Linacre Professorship of Anatomy and Physiology , which he held to the time of his death .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1862 , and a Fellow of Merton College , Oxford , in 1872 .
He was a member of the Council of the University , and its representative in the General Medical Council , and also an active member of the Oxford Local Board .
In 1861 he married Grace , daughter of Dr. John Davy , F.R.S. , and niece of Sir Humphry Davy , and he leaves a family of seven children .
The duties of the Linacre professorship involved the teaching of a wide range of subjects included under the terms of physiology and anatomy , human and comparative , to which he added the hitherto neglected but important subject of anthropology , as well as the care of a great and ever-growing museum .
In the present condition of scientific knowledge it requires a man of very versatile intellect and extensive powers of reading to maintain anything like an adequate acquaintance with the current literature of any one of these subjects , much more to undertake original observations on his own account .
Even a man of Rolleston 's powers felt the impossibility of any one person doing justice to the chair as thus constituted , and strongly urged the necessity of dividing it into three professorships , one of XXV physiology , one of comparative anatomy , and one of human anatomy and anthropology .
The work which he did however contrive to find time to publish , and by which he will be chiefly known to posterity , is remarkable for its thoroughness .
He never committed himself to writing without having completely mastered everything that had been previously written upon the subject , and his memoirs bristle with quotations from , and references to , authors of all ages and all nations .
The abundance with which these were supplied by his wonderful memory , and the readiness with which , both in speaking and writing , his thoughts clothed themselves with appropriate words , sometimes made it difficult for ordinary minds to follow the train of his argument through long and voluminous sentences , often made up of parenthesis within parenthesis .
The work which was most especially the outcome of his professorial duties is the " Forms of Animal Life , " published at the Clarendon Press in 1870 .
Though written chiefly with a view to the needs of the university students , it is capable of application to more general purposes , and is one of the earliest and most complete examples of instruction by the study of a series of types , now becoming so general .
As he says in the preface , " The distinctive character of the book consists in its attempting so to combine the concrete facts of zootomy with the outlines of systematic classification , as to enable the student to put them for himself into their natural relations of foundation and superstructure .
The foundation may be wider , and the superstructure may have its outlines not only filled up , but even considerably altered by subsequent and more extensive labours ; but the mutual relations of the one as foundation and the other as superstructure which this book particularly aims at illustrating , must always remain the same .
" Besides this work , Professor Rolleston 's principal contributions to comparative anatomy and zoology are the following : " On the Affinities of the Brain of the Orang Utang , " " Not .
Hist. Review , " 1861 ; " On the Aquiferous and Oviductal System in the Lamelli-branchiate Molluscs " ( with Mr. 0 .
Robertson ) , " Phil. Trans. , ' 1862 ; " On the Placental Structures of the Tenrec ( ecaudatus ) and those of certain other Mammals , with Remarks on the Value of the Placental System of Classification , " " Trans. Zool. Soc. , " 1866 ; " On the Domestic Cats of Ancient and Modern Times , " " Journal of Anatomy , " 1868 ; " On the Homologies of Certain Muscles Connected with the Shoulder-Joint , " " Trans. Linn. Soc. , ' 1870 ; " On the Development of the Enamel in the Teeth ol Mammals , " " Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Soc. , " 1872 ; and " On the Domestic Pig in Prehistoric Times , " " Trans. Linn. Soc. , ' 1877 .
Latterly he did much admirable work in anthropology , for which he was excellently qualified , being one of the few men who possess the XXVI culture of the antiquary , historian , and philologist on the one hand , and of the anatomist and zoologist on the other , and could make these different branches of knowledge converge upon the complex problems of man 's early history .
The chief results of his work of this nature are contained in his contributions to Green well 's " British Barrows " ( 1877 ) , a book- containing a fund of solid information relating to the early inhabitants of this island .
His last publication , and one which is on the whole the most characteristic as exhibiting his vast range of knowledge on many different subjects , was a lecture delivered in 1879 at the Royal Geographical Society on " The Modifications of the External Aspects of Organic Nature produced by Man 's Interference .
" That Dr. Rolleston has not left more original scientific work behind him is easily accounted for by the circumstances under which he lived-at Oxford .
The multifarious nature of the subjects with which the chair was overweighted ; the perpetual discussions in which during the whole term of his office he was engaged consequent upon the transitional condition of education , both at Oxford and elsewhere ; the immense amount of business thrust upon him , or voluntarily undertaken by him , of the kind which always accumulates round the few men who are at the same time capable and unselfish , such as questions pertaining to the local and especially to the sanitary affairs of the town in which he lived , or questions connected with the reform of the medical profession , arising both within and outside the Medical Council , which latter business constantly brought him to meetings in London ; his own wide grasp of interest in social subjects and deep feeling of the responsibilities of citizenship , and a sense of the duties of social hospitality , which made his house always open to scientific visitors to Oxford : all these rendered impossible to him that intense concentration which is requisite for carrying out any continuous line of research .
He was often blamed for undertaking so much and such diverse kinds of labour , so distracting to his scientific pursuits ; but being by constitution a man who could never see a wrong without feeling a burning desire to set it right , who could never " pass by on the other side " when he felt that it was in his power to help , nothing but actual physical impossibility would restrain him .
For several years past , when feeling that his health and strength did not respond to the strain he put upon them , he resorted to every hygienic measure suggested but one , and that the one he most required\#151 ; r est ; but this he never could or would take .
During the last term he spent at Oxford , before his medical friends positively forced him ( though unfortunately too late ) to give up his occupations and seek change in a more genial climate , he was working at the highest pressure , rising every morning at six o'clock , to get two uninterrupted hours in which to write the revised xxvii edition of the " Forms of Animal Life " before the regular business of the day commenced .
It is impossible for those who had no personal knowledge of Rolleston to realise what sort of a man he was , and how great his loss will be to those who remain behind him .
No one can ever have passed an hour in his company , or beard him speak at a public meeting , without feeling that he was a man of most unusual power , of lofty sentiments , generous impulses , marvellous energy , and wonderful command of language .
In brilliant repartee , aptness of quotation , and ever-ready illustration from poetry , history , and the literature of many nations and many subjects , besides those with which he was especially occupied , he had few equals .
" In God 's war slackness is infamy " might well have been his motto , for with Rolleston there \#166 ; was no slackness in any cause which he believed to be God s war .
He was impetuous , even vehement , in his advocacy of what appeared to him true and right , and unsparing in denunciation of all that was mean , base , and false .
To those points in the faith of his fathers which he believed to- be essential he held reverently and courageously , but on many questions both social and political , he was a reformer of the most advanced type .
Often original in his views , always outspoken in giving expression to them , he occasionally met with the fate of those who do not swim with the stream , and was misunderstood ; but this was more than compensated for by the affection , admiration , and enthusiasm with which he was regarded by those who were capable of appreciating his nobility of character .
The loss of the example afforded by such a nature , and of his elevating influence upon younger and weaker men , is to our mind a still greater loss , both within and without the University in which he taught , than the loss of what scientific work he might yet have performed .
Dr. Rolleston 's personal appearance corresponded with his character .
Of commanding height , broad-shouldered , with a head of unusual size , indicating a volume of brain commensurate with his intellectual power , and with strongly-marked and expressive features , in which refinement and vigour were singularly blended , in him we saw just such a man as was described by the public orator at the late Oxford Commemoration , in words with which we may conclude this notice\#151 ; " Virum excultissimi ingenii , integritatis incorruptissimae , veritatis amicum , et propugnatorem impavidum."\#151 ; W. H. F.

