" On the Nerves of the Gravid Uterus .
" By Robert Lee , M.D. , F.R.S. The author , while dissecting a gravid uterus of seven months , on the 8th of April , 1838 , observed the trunk of a large nerve proceeding upwards from the cervix to the body of that organ along with the right uterine vein , and sending off branches to the posterior surface of the uterus ; some of which accompanied the vein , and others appeared to be inserted into the peritoneum .
A broad band , resembling a plexus of nerves , was seen extending across the posterior surface of the uterus , and covering the nerve about midway from the fundus to the cervix .
On the left side , a large plexus of nerves was seen , surrounding the uterine veins at the place where they were about to enter the hypogastric vein .
From this plexus three large trunks of nerves were seen aecompanying the uterine vein , which increased in size as they ascended to the fundus uteri .
From the nerve situated on the posterior surface of the vein , numerous fila ?
ments passed off towards the mesial line , as on the right side ; some following the smaller veins on the posterior surface of the uterus , and others becoming intimately adherent to the peritoneum .
The largest of the nerves which accompanied the uterine vein was traced as high as the part where the Fallopian tube enters the uterus ; and there it divided into numerous filaments , which plunged deep into the muscular coat of the uterus along with the vein .
A large fasciculated band , like a plexus of nerves , was also seen on the left side under the peritoneum , crossing the body of the uterus ; and several branches , apparently nervous , proceeding from this band , were distinctly continuous with some of the smaller branches of nerves accompanying the uterine veins .
The preparation of the parts was placed in the Museum of St. George 's Hospital , on the 1st of Octo ?
ber , 1838 ; and several anatomists who examined itwcre of opinion that they were absorbents accompanying the uterine veins , and tendinous fibres spread across the postcrior surface .
Dr. Lee availed himself of another opportunity which presented itself , on the 18th of December of the same year , of examining a gravid uterus in the sixth month of pregnancy , which had the spermatic , hypogastric and sacral nerves remaining connected with it ; and during the last ten months , he has been diligently occupied in tracing the nerves of this uterus .
He believes that he has ascer ?
tained that the principal trunks of the hypogastric nerves accompany , not the arteries of the uterus , as all anatomists have represented , but the veins ; that these nerves become greatly enlarged during pregnancy ; and that their branches are actually incorporated , or coalesce with the branches of the four great fasciculated bands on the anterior and posterior surface of the uterus , bearing a striking resemblance to ganglionic plexuses of nerves , and sending numerous branches to the muscular coat of the uterus .
The author gives the following description of the nerves of the gravid uterus in the sixth month , and of these fasciculated bands as displayed in the dissection .
Behind the uterus , the aortic plexus divides into two portions , to form the right and left hypogastric plexuses .
These plexuses , after an intimate union with the nerves accompanying the uretcrs , deseend to the neck of the uterus , upper part of the vagina , and contiguous parts of the bladder and rectum , where they are joined by branches from the third and fourth sacral nerves .
The left hypogastric plex ?
us , about two inches below the aortic plexus , sends off a large branch , which passes on the inside of the ureter to the superior uterine vein , where it is about to terminate in the hypogastric vein .
Here the nerve suddenly expands , becomes broad and thin , and passes into a great plexus of nerves , which completely eneircles the vein .
This plexus , surrounding the uterine vein , is joined below by two large branches , which proceed from the hypogastric plexus nearer the vagina , and lower down , and from which branches jmss on the outside of the ureter .
From the upper part of this plexus , surrounding the uterine vein near its termination , three large trunks of nerves proceed upwards with the vein to the superior j &gt; art of the uterus , and enlarge as they ascend .
The posterior branch of these hypogastric nerves sends off in its course smaller branches , which accompany the ramifications of the uterine vein on the postcrior surface of the uterus .
Passing upivards beyond the junction of the spermatic with the uterine vein , and running between the peritoneum and the left posterior fasciculated band , it spreads out into a web of thin broad branches and slender nervous filaments , some of which are inserted into the peritoneum , and others follow the vein to the fundus uteri , which they completely surround as the vein passes down into the muscular coat of the uterus .
Some of the branches of this nerve , near the fundus uteri , are distributed to the muscular coat , but these are small and few in number .
The middle and anterior branches of the hypogastric nerves ad ?
here closely to the uterine vein as they ascend , and form around it several plexuses , which completely invest the vessel .
From these plexuses branches are sent off to the anterior surface of the uterus , some of which , in an arborescent form , follow the trunk and branches of the uterine artery .
These two hypogastric nerves ascend , and closely unite with the left posterior fasciculated band .
On the left side of the uterus this band arises near the mesial line , on the back of the uterus , midway between the fundus and cervix , from a mass of fibres , which adhere so firmly both to the peritoneum and muscular coat that it is difficult precisely to determine their are ?
rangement .
From these fibres the band proceeds across the uterus , in the form of a thin web , to the point where the spermatic vein is leaving the uterus .
After closely uniting with the hypogastric nerves , this band proceeds outwards to the round ligament , becoming less firmly adherent to the peritoneum , where it unites with the left anterior band , and spreads out into a great web , under the perito ?
neum .
The left posterior band is loosely attached , through its whole course , to the subjacent muscular coat by soft cellular membrane .
The spermatic nerves on the left side pass down to the ovarium with the spermatic artery , and first give off several branches to the corpus fimbriatum .
A few small branches are then sent into the outer end of the ovary .
The spermatic nerves afterwards leave the artery , and proceed with the veins to the uterus , where they firmly unite to the outer extremity of the left posterior band ; and after the junction of this band with the prolongations of the anterior band under the round ligament , numerous small , delicate filaments , apparently nervous , are sent to the base of the ovarium .
On the right side of the uterus , the author finds that the distribu ?
tion of the hypogastric and spermatic nerves does not essentially differ from that now described as seen on the left side .
The form and situation of the right posterior band is , he states , much more clearly seen than on the left side , and presents the appearance of a white pearly fasciculated membrane about a quarter of an inch in breadth , proceeding from the mesial line at right angles to the hypogastric nerves , across the body of the uterus , to the round ligament , where it unites with the anterior band .
Numerous branches , strikingly resembling the branches of nerves , are sent off from the upper and lower edges of this band , and from its posterior surface to the mucular coat of the uterus .
An extensive and intimate union at various points is distinctly perceptible between these branches sent off from the band and the branches of the hypogastric nerves .
On the an ?
terior and upper part of the neck of the uterus , there is a great mass of reddish-coloured fibres , firmly interlaced together , resembling a ganglion of nerves , into which numerous large branches of the hypogastric nerves on both sides entcr , and to which they lirmly adhere .
From the upper part of this fibrous substance there passes up , over the whole anterior surface of the uterus , a thin band of firm white fasciculated fibres , prolongations of which extend to the round ligaments , ?
into which , and into the posterior band , they are continued by numerous filaments , like those of nerves .
From the posterior surface of this great band , numerous branches , also appa ?
rently nervous , can be traced to a considerable depth through the muscular coat of the uterus .
The author concludes his paper with the following remark , and a short historical account of the progress of discovery on the subject of the nerves of the uterus : ?
" From the form , colour and general appearance of these fasciculated bands , and the resemblance they bear to ganglionic plexuses of nerves , and from their branches actually coalescing with the hypogastric and spermatic nerves , 1 was induced to conclude , on first discovering them , that they were nervous plexuses , and constituted the special nervous system of the uterus .
The recent examination , however , of the gravid uterus of some of the lower animals , in which I have found a structure similar to those bands in large quantity under the peri ?
toneum , has left me in considerable doubt as to the nature of these bands , and until further investigations have been made , I shall not venture to pronounce a positive opinion respecting them .
" The description of the nerves of the uterus contained in Professor Tiedemann 's splendid work , the author adds , is usually referred to by anatomical writers as the most accurate and complete which has ever been given .
Professor Tiedemann has represented the sperma ?
tic nerves as being distributed chiefly to the ovarium ; and the hypo ?
gastric as invariably accompanying the trunk and branches of the uterine arteries , along the sides of the uterus , ?
dividing into smaller branches , and quickly disappearing in the muscular coat of the ute ?
rus .
He has made no mention of the large nervous trunks on both sides of the uterus , which accompany the uterine veins ; nor has he noticed fasciculated transverse bands on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the uterus , connected with the hypogastric and spermatic

