The following Report , drawn up by the Rev. Wiliiam Whewell , M.A. F.R.S. , the Rev. George Peacock , M.A. F.R.S. , and the Rev. Henry Coddington , M.A. F.R.S. , on Mr. Lubbock 's Paper , read before the Royal Society Feb. 9 , 1832 , and entitled , -'Researches in Physical Astronomy , " was read .
Report .
The method of the variation of parameters as applied to the in ?
vestigation of the perturbations of the solar system has been suc ?
cessively developed in modern times .
This method gives the vari ?
ations of the elements of the elliptical orbit in terms of the differentials of a certain function R of these elements , and of the disturbing forces .
Euler , Lagrange ( 1783 ) , Lagrange and Laplace ( 1808 ) obtained the formulae for da , de , d ' &amp; , dp , dq where p= tan &lt; p sin 0 , q= tan &lt; p sin 0 .
Poisson first gave the expression for d s. Pontecoulant , p. 330 , has introduced di and dv instead of dp and dq ; but those developments gave expressions neglecting the square of the disturbing force .
Mr. Lubbock has published ( in a Paper in the Phil. Trans. April 1830 , ) expressions which include the effect of any power of the disturbing force .
This method has been principally applied to the secular in ?
equalities ; but it is susceptible of being applied with no less strictness to periodical inequalities , all of which may be represented by certain changes in the elements of the elliptical orbit .
But the same problems may also be approximately solved directly ; for we obtain a differential equation involving the radius vector and the time .
In this equation there occurs the same function R of which we have already spoken ; and this function is ex ?
panded according to terms involving cosines of the mean motions of the disturbing and disturbed planet , and cosines of the difference of certain multiples of these motions .
This expression has been treated of by various authors , and among others Mr. Lubbock has himself ( in memoirs read May 19 and June 9 , 1831 , ) given the ex ?
pansion of R in a form suited to his present object .
The coefflcients of the terms in this expansion are arranged , as usual , according to the order of the excentricities , their powers and products , and to the power of the sin* of half the inclination .
These coefflcients involve also certain quantities bn i where n and i have a variety of values ; and these quantities depend on the ratio of the mean distances of the disturbing and disturbed bodies from the sun .
Solving the differential equation which involves r , by the equating of coefflcients , Mr. Lubbock finds a value for the reciprocal of r in such terms as have been mentioned .
By certain algebraical transformations of the fractional coefflcients in which i occurs , ( and by certain equations of condition between b^^^ , &amp; 3$ &gt; ^3i4-i &gt; ano^ between similar quantities , ) the expression for the reciprocal of r is transformed and reduced , the arcs remaining as they were .
But by the properties of the ellipse , the reciprocal of r is equal to a series of terms involving the excentricities , and involving also co ?
sines of the mean anomaly and its multiples : and hence the variation of this reciprocal is equal to a similar series , involving sines and co ?
sines of such arcs , and involving also the variations of the elliptic elements .
By substituting the variations of the elliptic elements given by the formulae above mentioned , when we put for R its expansion , we have a certain series of sines and cosines with their coefflcients multiplied into certain other sines of the same kind .
It is found that the sines and cosines thus multiplied produce , by trigonometrical transformations , arcs identical with those which were found in the value of the reciprocal of r obtained by the former method ; and the coefflcients are also found to be identical with those resulting from the former transformations and reductions .
We have not thought it necessary to verify the somewhat complex reductions by which Mr. Lubbock has shown the identity of the results obtained by these two methods .
The mode of proceeding is perfectly satisfactory , and the truth of the conclusion might have been foreseen .
The reductions , however , by which identity was to be exhibited were by no means obvious : and we conceive it not unlikely that the development of them may sometimes be of use in enabling us to judge which of the two methods of solution may be applied with most convenience in particular cases .
We are of opinion that this Paper is well worthy of being printed in our Transactions .
( Signed ) W. Whewell .
Geo. Peacock .
h. coddington .

