122 Lesions in Monkey 's Brain .
Phymosoma varians .
[ May 16 , VI .
" Appendix to Paper* on Descending Degenerations following Lesions in the Gyrus marginalis and Gyrus fornicatus .
in Monkeys .
" By E. P. France .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received April 22 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) This appendix contains an account ( 1 ) of the degenerations which have resulted from lesions of the external motor cortex alone ; ( 2 ) of the degenerations which have resulted from lesions involving both this and the gyrus marginalis ; and ( 3 ) a comparison between the respective degenerations resulting from lesions of the external motor surface and of the gyriis marginalis .
The results tend to show the existence of a differentiation in the pyramidal tract , the whole area of which is involved in degeneration when both external and mesial motor areas have been removed , whereas after removal of one portion only of the motor area , a corresponding part only of the pyramidal tract area degenerates .
Vll .
" On Pliymosoma varians .
" By Arthur E. Shipley , M.A. , Fellow and Lecturer of Christ 's College , Cambridge , and Demonstrator of Comparative Anatomy in the University .
Communicated by A. Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received May 1 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) The following observations on Ph varians were made on a number of specimens brought from the Bahama Islands by Mr. W. F. R. Weldon , of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
I am not only indebted to Mr. Weldon for the material of this article , but for very valuable suggestions and assistance while carrying on my investigations .
The Phymosoma is found embedded in soft coral rock .
The length of the fully extended specimens averages 5 cm .
, the greatest diameter about 5 mm. The introvert is equal in length to .the rest of the body .
The Head.\#151 ; The head bears a crown of tentacles , which are always equal in number , usually eighteen ; they are arranged in a horse-shoe shaped lophophore , which is dorsal to the mouth .
The ends of this horse-shoe are confluent with those of a vascular lower lip , which is also horse-shoe shaped ; the crescentiform opening between these two * Read March 27 , 1889 .

