[ 501 ] XV .
On Attraction and Repulsion resulting from Radiation * .
By William Crookes , F.R.S. Received August 12 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1873 .
I Jn a paper " On the Atomic Weight of Thallium , " presented to the Royal Society June 18 , 1872 , after describing a balance with which I was enabled to perform weighings of apparatus \amp ; c. in a vacuum , I noted a peculiarity in relation to the effect of heat in diminishing the apparent weight of bodies .
I said , " That a hot body should appear to be lighter than a cold one has been considered as arising from the film of air or aqueous vapour condensed upon or adhering to the surface of the colder body , or from the upward currents of air caused by the expansion of the atmosphere in the vicinity of the heated body .
But neither hypothesis can be held when the variation of the force of gravitation occurs in a vacuum as perfect as the mercurial gauge will register , and under other conditions which I am now supplying , and which I purpose embodying in a paper to be submitted to the Royal Society during a subsequent session " f. With the vacuum-balance mentioned above I carried out many experiments , but was unable to obtain results which were at all concordant ; and it was soon found necessary to investigate the phenomena with smaller and less complicated apparatus .
2 .
Most chemical manuals warn beginners against the errors occasioned by weighing-substances while hot ; and , up to a moderately high degree of exhaustion , I was prepared to find a piece of glass apparatus , when hot , apparently lighter than the weights which should balance it were the whole system at the same temperature .
But instead of the interfering causes diminishing as the rarefaction proceeded , they seemed rather to increase , or at all events to become irregular in their action , sometimes appearing to oppose , and at others to supplement the force of gravity .
In such a vacuum as a good air-pump would produce , the actions of the ascending current of air and of the adhering film , it might be presumed , should cease to exert an influence ; and I could think of no other disturbing cause except the lengthening of the beam , owing to the heat radiated from the apparatus below it .
An increase in the length of the beam should make a mass suspended at its extremity appear heavier ; but whilst I frequently noticed an action which might be due to this cause , I occasionally obtained results which were so anomalous as to convince me that some cause which I had not hitherto recognized was at work ( 49 ) , and to lead me to hope that perhaps I might succeed in tracing a connexion between heat and the force of gravity .
* This paper was read before the Royal Society , and the abstract was published in the ' Proceedings ' ( vol. xxii .
p. 37 ) under the title " On the Action of Heat on Gravitating Masses .
" t Philosophical Transactions , 1873 , vol. clxiii .
p. 287 .
3 .
Many physicists have worked on the subject of repulsion by heat .
I give here a brief resume of the state of knowledge on this subject up to the time of my commencing these experiments , premising , however , that much of this historical information was unknown to me until some of the experiments here recorded were finished and I commenced putting my notes together .
The earliest mention I can find is by the Eev .
A. Bennet , E.E.S. , who in the year 1792 published a paper* on " A new suspension of the magnetic needle intended for the discovery of minute quantities of magnetic attraction : also an air-vane of great sensibility ; with new experiments on the magnetism of iron filings and brass .
" Mr. Bennet used a spider 's thread as a means of suspension .
This he found by experiment to be absolutely free from torsion .
I quote the following experiments from his paper:\#151 ; " Experiment IV .
A bristle was suspended horizontally by a spider 's thread , somewhat stronger than the last , and after turning the wheel till it produced 4800 revolutions , .
it shortened the thread from 3 inches to 1 inch ; yet either end of the bristle would move towards any warm substance which was presented to it either with or against the direction of the twist f. " Experiment V. Several other light substances were suspended by fine spiders ' threads and placed in a cylindrical glass about 2 inches in diameter , as the thinnest part of the wing of a dragon-fly , thistledown , and the down of dandelion ; of these the last appeared most sensible to the influence of heat ; for when this down was fastened to one end of a fine gold wire , suspended horizontally on to one end of two bits of straw joined together in the form of the letter T inverted , it would turn towards any person who approached it at the distance of 3 feet , and would move so rapidly towards wires heated by my hand , as very much to resemble magnetic attraction .
" Experiment VI .
A bottle filled with cold water was brought near the glass cylinder standing in a warm room , and soon after the down of dandelion appeared to be repelled by the bottle by turning away from it .
The bottle was removed to the other side , and the dandelion again moved towards the opposite side .
" Experiment VII .
A piece of paper was tied over the mouth of a glass jar , about 4 inches in diameter .
Two holes were made in the paper opposite to each other , and near the edge of the glass .
The jar was placed upon a table , and suffered to stand a considerable time to cool in a room without fire .
I then sat near it on the side where one of the holes in the paper was in the nearer and the other in the farther end of the diameter .
I next filled another glass with smoke , and placed it with its mouth over the two holes in the paper .
The smoke was now seen to descend through the farthest hole , and mixing with the air in the lower jar , plainly showed that the air moved slowly towards the side of the glass warmed by the heat of my body .
" Experiment X. To the end of a fine gold wire 3 inches long , and suspended by a spider 's thread in a cylindrical glass , was fastened a small circular bit of writing-paper ; * Philosophical Transactions , 1792 , p. 81 .
t For a rediscovery of this fact , seventy-nine years after , see par .
14 .
REPULSION RESULTING FROM RADIATION .
light was admitted through a small hole , and also the focus of a large lens was thrown upon the paper , with the intention of observing whether it would be moved by the impulse of light ; but though these experiments were often repeated , and once with the paper suspended in an exhausted receiver , yet I could not perceive any motion distinguishable from the effects of heat .
Perhaps sensible heat and light may not be caused by the influx or rectilinear projection of fine particles , but by the vibrations made in the universally diffused caloric or matter of heat or fluid of light .
I think modern discoveries , especially those of electricity , favour the latter hypothesis .
" 4 .
In his c Elementary Treatise on Heat ' * Professor Balfour Stewart , F.R.S. , cites this experiment of Mr. Bennet 's as one of the arguments against the emissive and in favour of the undulatory theory of light and heat .
Bearing in mind the overwhelming proofs we now possess that the undulatory theory more nearly expresses the truth than docs the emissive theory , it is not likely that the very different results I have succeeded in obtaining ( 56 , 57 , 58 ) , by the employment of instruments of a delicacy unattainable eighty years ago , will have any weight in modifying the accepted theories of light and heat .
5 .
The next mention of the dynamic action of heat is by Laplace , who , in his ' Me-canique Celeste ' f , speaks of the " repulsive force of heat " as subsisting among the particles of a fluid , but observes that experiment shows it has no other effect on capillary attraction than what results from its diminishing the density of the fluid .
6 .
In the year 1824 LibriJ published some experiments on the movement of translation experienced by a drop of liquid suspended to a metallic wire , one of the ends of which is heated .
This he inferred was due to repulsion produced by the heat between the wire and the particles of the liquid .
The Rev. Baden Powell , E.R.S. , says S that trying to repeat Libri 's experiment he has never been able to succeed , except in producing a , slight apparent motion in the drop , which seems explicable from the mere effect of evaporation on the side next the heat .
i. In the 'Annales de Chimie et dePhysique ' for 18251| are two papers by Fresnel , in which he gives an account of an experiment on the repulsion exerted by heat .
To the two extremities of a fine magnetic needle , suspended by a cocoon-fibre , he attached , vertical disks of foil and mica , so as to test with the same apparatus an opaque and a transparent body .
The fixed body which was to repel the torsion-balance was another disk of foil .
The whole was covered with the receiver of an air-pump , and a vacuum , up to 1 or 2 millimetres , was obtained .
The whole was then taken into sunshine , and turned so that the needle was kept slightly out of the magnetic meridian by pressure of the fixed disk against one of the movable disks .
On concentrating the sun 's rays on either of these disks , they instantly separated , sometimes to the extent of a millimetre .
On withdrawing the lens , the torsion-balance only gradually returned to its * Oxford , at the Clarendon Press , 18G6 , pp. 161 , 352 .
f Suppl. livr .
x. p. 75 , a.d. 1799-1805 .
S Philosophical Transactions , 1834 , p. 485 .
+ Mem. Accad .
Torino , xxviii .
j| Vol. xxix .
pp. 57 , 107 .
3x2 original position .
To see if these phenomena were due to the residual gas , air was gradually let in ; and on repeating the experiment when the density of the enclosed air w as fifteen or twenty times greater than at first , it was found that the repulsion had not sensibly increased , as it should have done had it been due to currents of heated air .
Under some conditions , indeed , the movement was not so great as in a vacuum .
Sometimes Fresnel observed an action of attraction , the disks adhering when heated , and separating when the lens was removed .
With pieces of copper suspended to the magnetic needle the attraction was very apparent ; when the movable and fixed disks were near together they approached on applying heat .
Reasons are given why these effects cannot be due to electricity or magnetism , but the author does not seem to have tried any further experiments .
8 .
M. Saigey in 1827 * described an experiment with a needle of lead delicately suspended at different distances from a bar of copper .
He found the number of oscillations in a given time decrease with the distance .
From his experiments he arrived at the following results:\#151 ; All bodies exert between themselves a feeble repulsive action under ordinary circumstances .
A very marked attraction may be observed between a cold and a heated body , or between two bodies of different temperatures , whether screens be interposed or not .
Saigey concludes that in many cases results obtained without the appreciable development of magnetism or electricity have been attributed to these forces .
9 .
In the year 1834 Professor J. D. Forbesf published an elaborate research on the vibrations which Mr. A. Trevelyan had found to take place between metallic masses having different temperatures .
The general conclusion at which he arrived is that there is a repulsive action exercised in the transmission of heat from one body into another which has a less power of conducting it .
These repulsions only take place between bodies having a certain amount of conducting-power , below which some metals fall ; it must be excitable in a most minute space of time , and is energetic in proportion to the difference of conducting-power of the substances and to their difference of temperature .
10 .
The Rev. Baden Powell , in the same yearj , published a paper " On the Repulsive Power of Heat .
" He employed an arrangement somewhat similar to Fresnel 's ( 7 ) , the disks being two small plates of glass with truly plane surfaces .
He found that if in the first instance they were pressed together so as to adhere , heat always overcame the attraction , and the movable disks sometimes receded to a sensible distance ; but Professor Powell says that this effect ( and perhaps also that in Fresnel 's experiment ) appeared to him in a great measure due to another cause than repulsion , viz. the slight curvature which will be given to the plate of glass by the greater expansion of the more heated surface producing a convexity towards the heat .
11 .
By pressing the disks closely together , the coloured rings formed would give a * Bulletin Matheinatique , tom .
ix .
pp. 89 , 167 , 239 , tom .
xi .
no. 167 ; Bull .
Sci. Not .
viii .
p. 28/ .
t Trans. Boy .
Soc. Edinburgh , vol. xii .
p. 429 .
+ Philosophical Transactions , 1834 , p. 485 .
REPULSION RESULTING EROM RADIATION .
test of the interval between the disks .
Professor Powell found that the tints invariably descended in the scale when heat was applied , showing that the interval between the disks increased , and proving the existence of a repulsive power exerted between heated surfaces at small though sensible distances\#151 ; the warping , or change of figure , if any , in the glasses by heat being readily seen to be such as ought to cause the rings to enlarge at the first instant .
From experiments made by the contact of a lens with different substances , Professor Powell inferred that whatever tends to increase the rapidity of communication of heat , tends to increase the observed effect .
The effect is increased when water , instead of air , is introduced between two lenses .
12 .
In 1838 Professor Powell* gave some additional notes on the same subject , but no new form of experiment was tried .
13 .
Dr. Joule , F.R.S.f , gave an account in 1863 of a new and extremely sensitive thermometer .
It was based upon the disturbing effect of currents of air upon finely suspended magnetic needles .
By diminishing the directive force of the needle , the instrument was made sufficiently delicate to move to the heat radiated from a small pan containing a pint of water heated to 30 ' , placed 3 yards off , and also to give evidence of the heat of the moon .
I have little doubt that these movements were not so much due to currents of air as to the mechanical effects of radiation described in this paper .
14 .
It is right that I should mention here that in September 1871 I received a letter from Mr. J. Reynolds , mentioning that he had constructed a little instrument which would turn to the hand , to a fire , or to any source of heat .
It consisted of a thin slip of deal suspended by a filament of spider 's web , and enclosed in a thin glass flask .
This little instrument was more sensitive than any I had then constructed , as the spider 's web was much freer than cocoon-silk from torsion , and Mr. Reynolds kindly allowed me to experiment with it .
15 .
I cannot do better , in bringing this historical summary to a conclusion , than draw attention to a passage written in 1868 by Professor Guthrie , F.R.S.J , in which he distinctly points out a probable relation between heat and gravity .
He says:\#151 ; " If the setherial vibrations which are supposed to constitute radiant heat resemble the aerial vibrations which constitute radiant sound , the heat which all bodies possess , and which they are all supposed to radiate in exchange , will cause all bodies to be urged towards one another .
" 16 .
Were it such a relation between heat and gravity of which I had been getting glimpses , it was evident that a much more delicate apparatus would be necessary to render it distinct , and I accordingly commenced a series of experiments with the view of ascertaining what form of apparatus would be most sensitive to the action sought .
The first requisite was to get rid of the error arising from the expansion of the beam by heat ; and since , in working with hot bodies , the metallic masses used as * Phil. Mag. vol. xii .
April 1838 .
f Chemical News , vol. vii .
p. 150 .
t Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. six .
p. 35 .
weights would themselves become warm , and since the action I sought to establish was only likely to be due to a difference in temperature between the hot body on one arm of the balance and the cold weights on the other arm , both being under the influence of the same force of gravity , I endeavoured to obtain the desired results by means of a spring-balance , one in which the variations of gravity should be measured , not against gravity itself , but against the tension of a spring .
17 .
I tried many forms of spring-balance , and obtained with them results which , at the time , I thought sufficiently satisfactory .
The sources of error were , however , so numerous , and the manipulation was so difficult , that I ultimately gave up that form of balance in favour of the one usually employed .
In order to obtain a very high degree of rarefaction , without the trouble and uncertainty attending the use of an ordinary air-pump , it was necessary to have the balance sufficiently small to enable it to be exhausted by the Sprengel pump .
Before proceeding to the forms of apparatus finally adopted and the experiments made therewith , it will , I think , be useful , for the sake of other experimentalists , if I briefly describe some of the arrangements successively tried and rejected , with the reasons for so doing .
18 .
A light beam ( ab , fig. 1 ) was made of two pieces of fine flattened brass wire Pig .
1 .
Scale # 120 millims. long , 5 millims. apart at the point of suspension , and joined together at each end .
A pair of very fine needle-points , one on each side of the beam , represented knife-edges , and worked on glass plates cemented horizontally to upright pillars .
The REPULSION RESULTING- FROM RADIATION .
centre of gravity could be altered by a screw , and a pointer projecting upwards enabled me to see a movement of the beam .
A brass ball ( c , c ' ) 6 millims. diameter , was soldered to each end of the beam .
The balance was adjusted so that it made one oscillation in about five seconds .
19 .
The case consisted of a rectangular box of brass , 10 mm. thick , the front of which was replaced by plate glass .
At one end two holes were drilled ( d , e ) about 20 mm. apart , and a curved piece of glass tube wTas cemented in , so that both ends were outside .
At the top a hole ( f ) was drilled to receive a thermometer , and another to receive the tube attaching the instrument to the Sprengel pump .
By sending a current of hot water through the bent glass tube , heat could be communicated to one of the brass balls , and the movement , if any , of the beam could be seen by a micrometer in front .
Many experiments were tried with this apparatus , and the result appeared to be that warming the ball caused it to sink ( 49 ) .
This action might , however , be due to the expansion of the brass beam by heat ; so to obviate this source of error , I sought for a material wherewith to make a beam which should be as little affected as possible in this manner .
20 .
A stick of fine-grained charcoal was worked up into the shape of a beam , and fitted at each end and in the centre with appropriate metallic collars for the needlepoints and brass balls .
To get rid of absorbed gases , which experience showed were evolved unequally in a vacuum , and thereby threw the beam out of adjustment , it was first heated strongly in an exhausted tube , and then soaked in an alcoholic solution of shellac .
When quite dry the charcoal was heated till the shellac fused .
After much difficulty the beam was adjusted , and being enclosed in the brass case described above , exhaustion was effected .
With this charcoal beam I also found that heat generally caused the brass ball to sink ( 49 ) .
21 .
These results were opposed to what I had before noticed , but many anomalies were observed ( 49 ) .
Thus the diminution of gravity did not appear to vary as the rarefaction increased ; and the position of the hot body , in relation to the brass ball , seemed to have considerable influence on the direction and amount of movement .
It was also difficult to make the brass case , with its numerous joints , sufficiently tight to hold a Sprengel vacuum* , even by painting it over with gold-size when partially exhausted , and 1 therefore decided to form the beam of some other material .
22 .
A mica beam was at first tried , but it was found to be liable to split across .
Magnesium possesses the advantages of lightness and rigidity , but was inapplicable , As I shall have to speak of various kinds of vacua , it will he best to name them distinctively to avoid periphrasis .
I shall call the best vacuum which my air-pump will give an vacuum\#151 ; this is one or two millimetres below the barometer .
The ordinary vacuum produced by the Sprengel pump I shall call a Sprengel vacuum in this the gauge is appreciably level with the barometer .
A so-called " perfect " vacuum , produced by potash and carbonic acid , as subsequently described , or by similar means , I shall call a chemical vacuum .
I object to the term perfect , as applied to any vacuum at present known , as I believe that where force can travel we are not justified in assuming the absence of matter\#151 ; imponderable it may be , and unaffected by ordinary forms of force\#151 ; but none the less matter .
owing to its expanding by heat .
A gridiron beam of zinc and iron or of zinc and glass , and a beam formed of two reversed thermometers , their bulbs forming the gravitating masses , were thought of , so as to have self-compensation for changes of temperature ; but after a few experiments the weight of such beams was found to be an insuperable objection , even had the difficulties of adjustment been overcome .
Altogether glass seemed to offer most advantages , as being sufficiently rigid , whilst its low conducting-power for heat rendered it little liable to introduce errors from expansion .
A straight glass beam was drawn from a piece of rectangular glass tube , and it was fitted with needle-point centres and brass balls at each end , similar to the plan adopted with the brass and charcoal beams .
This was fitted in the small brass case , and many experiments were tried with it .
The results were still anomalous , the apparent action of heat being sometimes in one direction and sometimes in another ( 49 ) .
Greater delicacy was still required , and the brass balls at the end of the beam were accordingly replaced with magnesium balls ; and instead of enclosing the balance in the brass case , I sealed it up , after exhaustion , in a glass tube .
With this a large number of experiments were tried ; but as the subsequent results , after I had discovered one of the laws governing the phenomena , were much more satisfactory , I forbear from occupying space in describing these preliminary experiments .
23 .
Afterwards I experimented successively with a glass beam having no special weight at the ends , and with the same beam with terminal knobs of glass fused on ; this appeared to increase the delicacy somewhat , but the weight was still too great to allow of accurate results being obtained ; and I finally adopted straw as the material for the beam , varying the gravitating masses at the end as , experience dictated .
Straw possesses many advantages : it is exceedingly light yet rigid ; it dries easily , and evolves no vapour in a vacuum ; moreover it is not likely to introduce errors by altering in shape under the influence of the moderate degrees of temperature to which it is subjected in these experiments .
24 .
The method of supporting the straw beam in the centre , so as to secure the maximum sensitiveness without the liability to get out of order , was difficult at first .
After trying suspension by fibres of cocoon-silk from a glass frame , suspension on a fine glass axis resting on thin glass rods , and many other devices , I finally adopted the following mode of support .
The pointed half of a small sharp needle is broken off about half a millimetre shorter than the internal diameter of the glass tube ; the blunt end is then ground very sharp on Arkansas stone .
The straw , about 7 inches long , having its gravitating masses at the ends , is then balanced on a knife-edge so as to let it roll over to a stable position nd to find its centre ; and the needle is then run through it at right angles , at such a distance above the horizontal centre of the straw that the centre of gravity of the whole system is a little below the centre of suspension .
The beam being slipped into the glass tube ( sealed at one end ) , the needle is supported very delicately against the sides of the glass by its points , and with the least possible amount of friction .
It is best now REPULSION RESULTING FROM RADIATION .
to exhaust temporarily , heating the straw by passing a spirit-flame along the tube , so as to drive off moisture .
If , as is almost certain to be the case , one end becomes heavier than the other , equilibrium can Fig. 2 .
be restored , without much diffi- culty , by holding the spirit-flame for a few seconds under the heavier end , so as to slightly char the straw or other material .
When in good adjustment and c a sufficiently sensitive the balance ^.-i\#151 ; --------------- \#177 ; \#151 ; ) is ready for experiment .
25 .
The material with which I formed the masses at the ends includes platinum , brass , silver , lead , bismuth , aluminium , magnesium , glass , selenium , ivory , charcoal of different kinds , straw , cork , and pith .
With each of these a large series of experiments were tried , and the experience gained with each was turned to account in making subsequent apparatus* .
Certain differences , which I shall subsequently allude to , were noticed according to the material forming the gravitating mass ; but as soon as I succeeded in obtaining the requisite degree of delicacy , the chief results were as decided as they were unexpected .
26 .
The most delicate apparatus for general experiment is made with a straw beam having pith masses at the end .
The general apparatus is shown in the annexed figure ( fig. 2 ) :\#151 ; A is the tube belonging to the Sprengel pump f. B is the desiccator , full of glass beads moistened with sulphuric acid .
C is the tube containing the straw balance with pith ends .
It is drawn out to a contracted neck at the end connected with the pump , so as to readily admit of being sealed off if desired at any stage of the exhaustion .
D is the pump-gauge , and E is the barometer .
27 .
The whole being fitted up as here shown , and the apparatus being full of air to begin with , I passed a spirit-flame across the lower part of the tube at , observing the movement by a low-power micrometer ; the pith ball ( a b ) descended slightly , and then immediately rose to considerably above its original position .
It seemed as if the * It is only fair to acknowledge here the assistance which I have received during the progress of these experiments from my young friend and pupil , Mr. Charles H. Gimingham .
Without his skill with the blowpipe and delicacy of manipulation with complicated apparatus , it would have been difficult for me to have carried out this investigation during the limited time I am able to devote to original research .
t For a full description of this pump , with diagrams , see Phil. Trans. 1873 , vol. clxiii .
p. 295 .
MDCCCLXXIV .
3 y true action of the heat was one of attraction , instantly overcome by ascending currents of air .
A hot metal or glass rod and a tube of hot water applied beneath the pith ball at b produced the same effect as the flame ; when applied above at a , they produced a slight rising of the ball .
The same effects take place when the hot body is applied to the other end of the balanced beam .
In these cases air-currents are sufficient to explain the rising of the ball under the influence of heat .
28 .
In order to apply the heat in a more regular manner , a thermometer was inserted in a glass tube , having at its extremity a glass bulb about inch diameter ; it was filled with water and then sealed up ( see fig. 3 ) .
This was arranged on a revolving stand , so that by means of a cord I could bring it to the desired position Eig .
3 .
without moving the eye from the micrometer .
The water was kept heated to 70 ' C. , the temperature of the laboratory being about 15 ' C. 29 .
The barometer being at 767 millims. and the gauge at zero , the hot bulb was placed beneath the pith ball at b. The ball rose rapidly ; as soon as equilibrium was restored , I placed the hot-water bulb above the pith ball at , when it rose again , more slowly , however , than when the heat was applied beneath it .
30 .
The pump was again set to work ; and when the gauge was 147 millims. below the barometer , the experiment was tried again ; a similar result , only more feeble , was obtained .
The exhaustion was continued , stopping the pump from time to time to observe the effect of heat , when it was seen that the effect of the hot body regularly diminished as the rarefaction increased , until , when the gauge was about 12 millims. below the barometer , the action of the hot body was scarcely noticeable .
At 10 millims. below it was still less ; whilst when there was only a difference of 7 millims. between the barometer and the gauge , neither the hot-water bulb , the hot rod , nor the spirit-flame caused the ball to move in an appreciable degree .
The inference was almost irresistible that the rising of the pith was only due to currents of air , and that at this near approach to a vacuum the residual air was too highly rarefied to have power in its rising to overcome the inertia of the straw beam and the pith balls .
A more delicate instrument would doubtless show traces of movement at a still nearer approach to a vacuum ; but it seemed evident that when the last trace of air had been removed from the tube surrounding the balance\#151 ; when the balance was suspended in empty space only\#151 ; the pith ball would remain motionless , wherever the hot body were applied to it .
31 .
I continued exhausting .
On next applying heat , the result showed that I was REPULSION RESULTING FROM RADIATION .
far from having discovered the law governing these phenomena ; the pith ball rose steadily , and without that hesitation which had been observed at lower rarefactions .
With the gauge 3 millims. below the barometer , the ascension of the pith when a hot body was placed beneath it was equal to what it had been in air of ordinary density ; whilst with the gauge and barometer level its upward movements were not only sharper than they had been in air , but they took place under the influence of far less heat\#151 ; the finger , for example , instantly repelling the ball to its fullest extent .
To verify these unexpected results , air was gradually let into the apparatus , and observations were taken as the gauge sank .
The same effects were produced in inverse order , the point of neutrality being when the gauge was about 7 millims. below a vacuum .
32 .
When the balance was in air of ordinary density , and the hot body was placed above the pith ball in the position a ( see fig. 2 ) , it will be remembered that the action was to cause the ball to rise ; the rising was , however , less decided than when the heat was applied below ( 27 , 29 ) .
On re-exhausting the balance-tube and taking a series of observations , placing the hot bulb above the pith ball in the position a ( fig. 2 ) instead of below it , the ascending tendency of the pith got less and less .
Several millimetres below the previously ascertained point of neutrality the hot bulb at a ceased to exert an action , and when the neutral point was exceeded by some millimetres I could still detect no movement .
However , at 2 millims. below a vacuum , I detected a tendency of the pith to sink when the experiment was tried ; and in a good Sprengel vacuum there was an unmistakable repulsion exerted between the two bodies , the pith sinking in obedience to the radiation from above almost as strongly as it rose when the heat was applied beneath .
33 .
I now wished to ascertain the effect of cold on the balanced pith balls , and for this purpose a lump of ice was employed .
The experiments were first tried with the balance-tube full of air , cold being applied either above or below the pith ball ; a lump of ice generally produced an upward movement of the pith , but it was very faint , and sometimes the motion appeared to be in the opposite direction .
It was evident that the true action of a cold body , whatever it might be , was here masked by currents of air ; and I therefore exhausted the apparatus and tried the effect of ice at the previously ascertained neutral point , viz. at about 7 millims. below the vacuum .
It was absolutely inert .
I then carried the exhaustion to the fullest extent , testing the balance with ice during its progress .
As the gauge approached nearer and nearer to the height of the barometer , the ice commenced to attract the pith ; and at last , when the gauge and barometer were level , the attraction of the ice , whether applied above or below , was very marked , being exactly opposite but equal to the action of the bulb of hot water .
34 .
In trying some of these experiments in a Sprengel vacuum an action was noticed which led me to think that some of these movements might be due to electricity .
When a hot glass rod is held motionless against the lower side of the exhausted tube , the repul- 3 y 2 sion of the pith ball takes place in a perfectly regular manner ; but if the glass rod has been passed once or twice through the fingers , or if it is rubbed a few times sideways along the exhausted tube , the beam immediately moves about in a very irregular manner , sometimes being repelled from and at others attracted to the side of the tube , where it sticks until the electrical excitement subsides .
When the finger is rubbed against the exhausted glass tube , the same electrical interference takes place ; attractions and repulsions occur by fits and starts , the pith sticks to the tube , and does not regain its ordinary state for some hours .
When a small spirit-flame is passed beneath the pith end* of the balance in the vacuum , a similar but much fainter electrical effect is noticed .
This , however , is not sufficient to interfere with the repulsion due to radiation unless the vacuum is very good and free from aqueous vapour .
35 .
The end of a glass beam in a Sprengel vacuum was found to be attracted by either pole of an induction-coil , when the other pole was not well insulated .
To ascertain whether electricity exerted any special action in the ordinary repulsions in vacuum , the following experiments were tried:\#151 ; 86 .
A straw beam with pith extremities was enclosed in a tube ( 24 ) and exhausted to the full power of the Sprengei pump .
After adjustment by heat , till it was in equilibrium and very delicate to slight radiation , it was re-exhausted and hermetically sealed up .
The tube was then completely surrounded with wet blotting-paper , with the exception of a small aperture through which the movement of the beam could be observed ; the blotting-paper was connected to earth by a wire soldered on to a gas-pipe .
On bringing a piece of warm copper beneath the pith ball , it rose as readily as if the outside of the tube had been dry and insulated .
The finger moistened with warm water also repelled the pith ; and when cooled with melting ice , and then applied dripping wet either above or below the pith ball , there was attraction .
The same result , but more strongly marked , took place when a piece of ice was used instead of the cold finger .
A straw beam furnished with brass balls at each end * was suspended in the usual manner on a double-pointed needle ; and the brass balls and needle were placed in metallic connexion by means of a very fine platinum wire .
The needle did not rest on the sides of the glass tube but in steel cups , to which was soldered a platinum wire passing through the glass tube and connected to earth .
The tube was then exhausted , and the usual experiments tried with hot and cold bodies , both with and without a wet blotting-paper cover .
In all cases the brass balls behaved normally , being repelled by heat and attracted by cold .
These experiments show that electricity is not a chief agent in these attractions and repulsions , however much it may sometimes interfere with and complicate the phenomena .
* Preliminary experiments showed me that the brass halls on the straw beam acted in every respect the same as the pith halls , with regard to hot and cold bodies externally applied , both at ordinary pressures and in a vacuum ; hut they moved in a more sluggish manner .
REPULSION RESULTING FROM RADIATION .
37 .
I now wished to see the effect of applying to the gravitating masses a hot body inside the exhausted balance-tube instead of outside , and accordingly constructed an apparatus shown in fig. 4 .
Fig. 4 .
\gt ; S\#163 ; _ % Scale \#163 ; % \d a , b are two balls suspended on a straw beam ; is a platinum spiral fastened to two stout copper wires cemented into holes drilled through a plate of glass , which can be cemented to the end of the tube ; d , d are the battery-wires ; e is the extremity of the tube , drawn out for attachment to the Sprengel pump .
A single Grove 's cell served to heat the platinum spiral to redness .
By careful management and turning the tube round the necessary degree , I could place the equipoised brass ball either over , under , or at the side of the source of heat .
A contact-key enabled me to heat the spiral without removing the eye from the micrometer .
With this apparatus I wished to learn more about the behaviour of the balance during the progress of the exhaustion , both below and above the point of no action , and also to ascertain the pressure corresponding with this critical point .
In air of ordinary density the action of the hot spiral was one of attraction both above and below .
Not wishing , however , to complicate the action by air-currents , 1 exhausted with the Sprengel pump until the gauge stood about 40 millims. below the barometer .
I then tried the following experiments:\#151 ; 38 .
The brass ball was placed so that its position when in equilibrium was about 1 millim. above the spiral , and the latter was rendered incandescent .
The ball was immediately drawn down to the spiral , sometimes touching and then rebounding with considerable force .
39 .
The brass ball was then arranged so that it was about 1 millim. below the spiral .
On turning on the battery-current the ball rose to the hot platinum .
This latter action might be due to air-currents ; but it is difficult to imagine that air-currents could drag the ball down to the hot spiral when the latter was beneath it ( 38 ) .
40 .
Ihe ball was arranged so that the platinum spiral was opposite the end , but a little above , as shown in fig. 4 a. On igniting the spiral the movement was very slightly Fig. 4 b. upwards .
When the spiral was rather below the ball , as shown in fig. 4 B , the ball moved downwards when contact with the battery was made ; the tendency in each of these cases was to bring the centre of gravity of the brass ball as near as possible to the source of heat .
41 .
The pump was then worked until the gauge had risen to 5 millims. of the barometric height .
On arranging the ball above the spiral and making contact , the attraction was still strong , drawing the ball downwards a distance of 2 millims. The pump continuing to work , the gauge , rose until it was within 1 millim. of the barometer .
The attraction of the hot spiral for the ball was still evident , drawing it down when placed below it , and up when placed above it .
The movement was , however , much less decided than before , and in spite of previous experience ( 30 , 31 ) the inference was very strong that the attraction would gradually diminish until the vacuum was absolute , and that then , and not till then , the neutral point would be reached .
Within 1 millim. of a Sprengel vacuum there appeared to be no room for a change of sign .
42 .
The gauge rose until there was only half a millimetre between it and the barometer .
The metallic hammering heard when the rarefaction is close upon a vacuum commenced , and the falling mercury only occasionally took down a bubble of air .
On turning on the battery-current , there was the faintest possible movement of the brass ball in the direction of attraction .
43 .
The working of the pump was continued .
On next making contact with the battery , no movement of the ball could be detected .
The red-hot spiral neither attracted nor repelled .
I had arrived at the critical point .
On looking at the gauge I saw it was level with the barometer .
44 .
The pump was now kept at full work for an hour .
The gauge did not rise perceptibly ; but the metallic hammering increased in sharpness , and I could see that a bubble or two of air had been carried down .
On igniting the spiral , I found that the critical point had been passed .
The sign had changed , and the action was faint but unmistakable repulsion .
The pump was still kept going , and an observation was taken from time to time during several hours .
The repulsion continued to increase .
The tubes of the pump were now washed out with oil of vitriol * , and the working was continued for an hour .
45 .
The action of the incandescent spiral was now found to be energetically repellent , whether it was placed above or below the brass ball ( figs. 4 c , 4 d ) .
The finger Fig. 4 o. i S6 ' 9 Scale ; S * __ Fig. 4 d. exerted a repellent action , as did also a warm glass rod , a spirit-flame , and a piece of hot copper .
* This can be effected without interfering with the exhaustion .
( See Philosophical Transactions , 1873 , vol. clxiii .
p. 296 .
) REPULSION RESULTING FROM RADIATION .
46 .
I now heated the sulphuric acid , in the U-tube desiccator attached to the pump , until it boiled .
A little aqueous vapour was driven off ; the sharpness of the hammering of the mercury changed to a duller sound ; and on trying an experiment once more with the ignited spiral , the action was seen to have returned to one of attraction .
On leaving the pump to itself for an hour or two , the sulphuiic acid , as it cooled , again took up the aqueous vapour ; and as the absorption proceeded I could trace the action of the hot spiral from attraction , through the point of neutrality , up to decided repulsion .
47 .
The critical point , in the case of brass balls , is much higher than with pith balls .
In the case of pith , applying heat outside , I obtained neutrality when the gauge was about 7 millims. below the barometer , and decided repulsion when there , was still a difference of 2 millims. With the apparatus just described , however , using brass balls and an internal source of heat , the critical point is very near the Sprengel vacuum .
By close observation I can just distinguish that the gauge is a fraction of a millimetre below the barometer when the hot spiral ceases to exert an attractive action on the brass ball ; but my unassisted eye is not able to detect a difference on the gauge between a Sprengel vacuum in which the ignited spiral is neutral to , and one in which it strongly repels , the brass ball .
48 .
I have experimental grounds for believing that the position of the critical point varies with the density of the mass on which radiation falls , with the relation of its mass to its surface , and with the temperature of the apparatus ( 62 , 63 , 64 , 65 , 67,75 ) .
The temperature of the body used to attract or repel the brass or pith ball also affects the critical point , but it cannot , I think , modify it much ; for with the apparatus last described no difference in kind of movement , but only in degree , was noticed , whether the spiral were ignited to full redness , or whether it were merely warmed by a momentary contact of the wires .
Further experiments are in progress which may throw light on this point .
49 .
The very high amount of rarefaction needed before this neutral point is reached , and the change of direction of movement on applying a hot body to one arm of the balance , caused by a difference of exhaustion of a few millimetres on one side or the other of the point of neutrality , are , I think , a sufficient explanation of the anomalous results which were met with in my earlier experiments ( 2,19 , 20 , 21 , 22 ) .
50 .
Although these results were sufficient to show that air-currents could not be the cause of the movements of the balance , I was anxious to decide this point once for all , by a form of experiment which , whilst it would settle the question indisputably , would be likely at the same time to afford information of much interest .
Having found that the balance last experimented with had its neutral point close to an ordinary Sprengel vacuum , that the repulsive action only came on by still further pushing the exhaustion , and that , as 1 further exhausted , the repulsion got stronger , it was of interest to see what would take place in a vacuum so nearly perfect that it would not carry a current from a Ruhmkorff 's coil .
In small tubes , and taking certain special precautions , I could prepare a vacuum with my Sprengel pump which would hardly allow an induction-current to traverse it , or would only show a faint , cloud-like discharge ; but it was impossible to effect this in the large tubes required for these experiments , and , in fact , all the Sprengel vacuum balancerig .
5 .
\#165 ; run tubes which I had hitherto prepared became brightly luminous when the current from an induction-coil was passed through them .
I accordingly fitted up the apparatus shown in figure 5 , in which a chemical vacuum could be prepared by a method first devised by Dr. Andrews ( Philosophical Magazine , February 1852 ) .
51 .
a b is the tube containing a straw beam with pith-ball terminals ; at b two platinum wires are passed through , to connect with an induction-coil ; at a the tube is contracted to allow the apparatus to be sealed off ; is a portion of the tube containing a copper boat filled with freshly cast sticks of caustic potash ; dis a tube bent as shown , and nearly full of strong sulphuric acid , which has been previously boiled for some minutes and then allowed to cool in a vacuum ; is a mercury joint , connecting the apparatus to the Sprengel pump .
At the upper part of the tube is a stopper fitting into a funnel-joint and capable of being replaced ( as shown in figure ) by a tube through which I could pass carbonic acid when desirable .
The carbonic acid was prepared by the action of hydrochloric acid on marble ; when not being passed into the exhausted tube , the gas was kept bubbling through mercury , XS REPULSION RESULTING EROM RADIATION .
51T where a tubeful could be collected from time to time ( as shown in the figure ) to test with potash .
It was found necessary to keep the evolution going on all the time pretty briskly , to prevent air diffusing in .
The joints were made of double caoutchouc tubing , the smaller one tightly wired on and coated with glycerine before the larger tube was slipped over it .
The whole was then tightly bound with wire .
To prevent air creeping down between the mercury and the glass , glycerine was poured over all the mercury joints , except the one at the top of the mercury fall-tube , which was kept for oil of vitriol , with which the pump was lubricated from time to time .
52 .
The apparatus being exhausted of air , the balance was adjusted by heating the ends so as to slightly char the one which happened to be the lower , f and g are two collars of silver foil encircling the tube where the heat is to be applied , and connected with earth by wire .
At a very high rarefaction the flame of a spirit-lamp excites so much electrical disturbance in the balance , that its adjustment becomes well nigh impossible .
This arrangement was adopted in the endeavour to carry off the electricity ; it is , however , only partially successful , and the electrification of the balance at the highest rarefactions is still very troublesome .
The air having been removed from the apparatus as perfectly as the Sprengel pump would effect it , carbonic acid was let into the tube by cautiously opening the tap h. Exhaustion was again effected , and carbonic acid passed in a second time .
This was then pumped out , and the apparatus was filled a third time .
This alternate filling with carbonic acid and exhaustion was continued until the gas collected at the bottom of the mercury fall-tube of the pump was entirely absorbed by potash .
When this was found to be the case , the exhaustion was allowed to proceed to the highest possible point * .
The pump was then stopped ; an induction-current now being passed between the wires at the end b showed the usual white light of a carbonic-acid vacuum ( a trace of red shows atmospheric nitrogen ) .
The sticks of potash in the copper boat in c were then heated to incipient fusion , and the whole was allowed to cool for some hours .
The tube was then sealed off by applying a spirit-flame to the contracted part a ; the potash was then heated again , and the whole was set aside to give the potash time to absorb the residual carbonic acid .
53 .
By testing from time to time with an induction-coil , the progress of the absorption could be traced ; and when the current ceased to pass through the tube , but preferred to strike across in air the full length of the spark , the vacuum was considered nearly perfect .
Warming the potash with a spirit-flame , at any time , will cause it to give oft* sufficient aqueous vapour to allow the spark to pass as a cloud-like luminosity .
This will be gradually absorbed until , in the course of from a few days to a few weeks , the vacuum will again cease to conduct .
54 .
It is very difficult to get the vacuum in large tubes so nearly absolute as not to When the pump is working in a very good vacuum , the friction of the falling mercury produces a very beautiful effect in the dark .
Brilliant points of light flash about wherever the mercury-drops are splashed from side to side , and the pump is frequently illuminated with a phosphorescent glow filling all the tubes .
allow a white , cloud-like discharge to pass .
I have tried experiments with balances sealed up in vacua of both kinds prepared in this manner , and I always find the repulsion on the approach of a hot body is very decided , although I do not think it is more energetic than with the same kind of balance enclosed in the best Sprengel vacuum'I could prepare .
These experiments have therefore set at rest the doubts which might have arisen had I only worked with the Sprengel vacua , that air-currents were the cause of the phenomena .
They have decided the important point , that in a chemical vacuum which will not carry an induction-current the repulsion by radiation is decided and energetic .
55 .
Besides the straw and pith balance mentioned above ( 51 , 52 ) , I have prepared and sealed up in chemical vacua balances made of a glass beam and platinum terminals , and also of glass entirely , the ends being flat glass plates .
They act in all respects as the straw and pith balance , only being somewhat less sensitive .
56 .
The delicacy of one of the straw and pith balances in a good vacuum is very great , as may be comprehended by the following experiment:\#151 ; The balance-tube was supported on a stand , and immediately beneath one of the pith balls was placed the face of a bismuth-antimony thermopile .
On connecting the terminal wires of the pile with a single cell-battery , so that the current flowed in one direction , heat was produced , and the pith ball was repelled .
On reversing the current , cold was produced and the pith ball was attracted .
57 .
The rays of the sun allowed to shine on the terminal pith ball of one of these delicate balances in vacuo repel it strongly .
If concentrated by a lens , the focal point beats the ball away , as if it were struck with a material agent .
If the sun 's light be filtered through coloured glasses before concentrating them on the pith ball , the action is slightly diminished .
Passing the light through two very clear plates of alum with parallel sides , and having an aggregate thickness of 8 millims. , had but little action .
58 .
A beam of sunlight was passed through a prism a ( fig. 6 ) , and the spectrum was projected horizontally on to a screen ( b ) 18 feet off .
In front of the screen , a little REPULSION RESULTING FROM RADIATION .
below it , was arranged the balance-tube c , having fixed above it a lens d , so that one of the pith balls was in the focus of the lens .
A small right-angled prism ( e ) was then held in the different parts of the spectrum , so as to reflect any desired ray on to the lens and concentrate it on to the pith ball .
By turning the right-angled prism sideways , the ray could be thrown off and on the ball , and the action readily noted .
In the ultra-violet rays the repellent action was slight ; the effect increased as I made the reflecting prism traverse the spectrum from the violet to the red .
The maximum action was in the extreme visible red , and it gradually faded away as the invisible rays beyond the red were reflected down .
An appreciable action of repulsion was , however , observed a full half spectrum in length below the least refrangible visible rays .
The plates of alum , interposed in the path of the rays , cut off a small portion only of their action .
59 .
The following experiments were tried with a very sensitive pith-ball balance sealed up in a good Sprengel vacuum:\#151 ; The beam was turned over , so that the centre of gravity was a very little above the centre of suspension ; the balance consequently set on either side .
In this condition the ball touching the tube could be made to rise by placing the finger beneath it , the balance then oversetting on the other side .
The higher ball could also be made tG sink in the same manner by placing the finger on the top of the tube just over it .
60 .
A piece of glass tube , bent in the form of a spiral ( fig. 7 ) , was supported on a stand , so that it could be slipped over one end of the balance-tube , which it fitted Fig. 7 .
d \lt ; G\gt ; loosely .
Steam was then passed through the glass coil , and a woollen cover was put on it , so that the end of the balance-tube could be kept at 100 ' C. When the temperature became uniform and steady the pith ball took up a position , as nearly as could be judged , in the axis of the spiral , and then remained stationary .
On raising the hot coil , so as to bring the lower part close to the tube , the pith ball rose a little , and on lowering the spiral the pith ball sank .
3 z 2 On applying the warm finger to the cool extremity of the balance-tube , either above or below the pith ball , the latter was repelled by it ; and by employing a lump of ice in the same way in each position the pith ball was attracted .
The balance seemed to be as sensitive when one end was heated in this manner as it was when both ends were of the same temperature ; but the rise and fall were not to so great an extent , owing to the controlling action of the hot spiral .
61 .
The following experiments were tried with a view of ascertaining the conditions of greatest sensitiveness .
In all cases the balances were in a good Sprengel vacuum .
A ball of ivory was balanced against a ball of brass on a straw beam ; the ivory was more sensitive to radiation than the brass .
62 .
A pith ball and one of platinum of the same weight were balanced on a straw beam .
The pith was very sensitive , being readily repelled by the finger ; but the platinum was sluggish , and required a spirit-flame to move it .
63 .
Two pith balls of the same weight , one gilt and the other plain , were fixed to the ends of a straw beam ; they appeared equally sensitive to radiation .
Two rectangular blocks of silver and bismuth , each weighing 4J grains , were balanced against one another on a straw beam * ; they were each repelled by a warm body applied above or below .
The bismuth was a little more sensitive than the silver to the action of heat , but it exposed a little more surface for the rays to impinge upon .
64 .
A selenium ball was balanced against a copper ball : the selenium was more sensitive to radiation than the copper ; but I do not think it was more so than would be due to its more extended surface .
When I allowed luminous rays , either from the sun or from artificial sources of light , to fall on the selenium , I could detect no special action which I could correlate with the action of light on selenium lately discovered by Mr. Willoughby Smith f. 65 .
Two pieces of thin mica , each having a surface of half a square centimetre , were fastened to the end of a straw beam , one being horizontal and the other vertical .
On applying slight warmth , each end was found to be very sensitive .
The horizontal mica was easiest affected by the heat ; but it had not that great advantage over the vertical piece which might have been expected from the much greater surface exposed had the movement been due to air-currents .
* These two metals were taken as representing nearly the two extremes of metallic conductors for heat and electricity , and also being the best ( silver ) and the worst ( bismuth ) in the list of " vibrators " given by Professor Foebes in his " Experimental Researches regarding certain vibrations which take place between metallic masses having different temperatures " ( Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , 1834 , vol. xii .
pp. 429-461 ) .
t Telegraphic Journal , vol. i. p. 78 .
REPULSION RESULTING EROM RADIATION .
Received August 18 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1873 .
66 .
A piece of flat plate-glass , 15 millims. wide and 1*5 millim. thick , was heated in the middle before the blowpipe till quite soft , and then drawn out till a long ribbon of glass was produced , the width and thickness of which retained the proportions of the original piece .
From the middle of this a portion 150 millims. long , 4 millims. wide at the ends , and 3 millims. wide in the centre , was cut off .
A double-pointed needle ( 24 ) was then secured to the centre by binding with platinum wire and fusing the latter to the glass .
This little balance was adjusted until it was very delicate , and was then enclosed in a tube containing potash at one end and platinum wires sealed in at the other end ; it was then arranged , in connexion with the Sprengel pump and carbonic-acid apparatus , so as to produce a chemical vacuum ( 51 , 52 , 53 ) .
When the flame of a spirit-lamp was passed under one end of this balance , the apparatus being full of air at the ordinary density , the result was decided attraction ( 27 , 37 , 38 , 40 , 41 ) .
On exhausting and testing from time to time in the same manner * , I found the attraction , or rather the sinking of the heated end towards the spirit-flame , to keep at about the same strength until the gauge had risen about 500 millims. After this there was a gradual decline in the downward movement of the glass end of the balance when heat was applied , until the gauge stood about 100 millims. below the barometer .
On testing the movement at this pressure 1 at first thought it was very slight ; but on keeping the flame of the lamp for about half a minute below the end of the balance the latter commenced to sink , and then the downward movement was almost as great as ever .
With a difference of 95 millims. the phenomena were similar , the lamp , however , requiring to be kept under the balance end longer , and the ultimate movement not being so great .
At 90 millims. the same thing occurred , the time of heating having to be still longer .
When the gauge was raised to 85 millims. of the barometric height , and the lamp was applied , the first movement was one of repulsion .
The glass end rose instantly , but to a very slight extent .
On keeping the lamp under for about a minute , the end of the balance slowly came down , until it had sunk a little below its original position .
At 80 millims. difference between gauge and barometer the effect was almost the same as at 85 millims. I he preliminary rise was , if any thing , a little more marked .
For fear of injuring the connexions of the apparatus , I did not like to apply the spirit-flame for a longer time than a minute , as the glass then commenced to soften ; I therefore , at the higher exhaustions , paid most attention to the initial movement of the glass beam , merely keeping the lamp beneath long enough to see if the continued heating drew the beam down again .
At a difference of 45 millims. between the gauge and the barometer , the neutral point was about reached .
The glass beam was not quite motionless on applying the spirit- It is perhaps scarcely necessary to say that the apparatus was allowed full time to acquire the ordinary temperature of the laboratory between each of these experiments .
lamp : it rose very slightly at first , and then descended to the same distance below the original level on continuing the heat .
At 35 millims. the initial rise was immediate and decided .
Continued heat only lowered the end a trifle , but did not bring it down to any thing near its original position .
From this point the attraction towards the heat ceased to be perceptible .
The upward movement increased in strength and amplitude until the Sprengel vacuum was reached * .
At 10 millims. below the barometer the glass beam was repelled by a glass rod or a lump of copper heated to 100 ' C. ; at a difference of 5 millims. between the gauge and the barometer the finger applied below repelled the beam , and at 2 millims. difference the beam was repelled when the finger was applied above .
' In the Sprengel vacuum the beam was very sensitive to the approach of a warm body , a touch of the finger sending it away to the fullest extent .
67 .
I consider that the difference observed between the behaviour of this glass beam , the straw beam with brass ends ( 37 to 40 ) , and the straw beam with pith ends ( 30,31,32 ) is to be accounted for by the different materials forming the balances , the different way in which heat was applied in the three cases , and the extent of surface exposed in proportion to mass .
There is , however , much to be found out in respect to the position of the critical point , and I am still at work on the subject .
Carbonic acid was then let into the apparatus , and it was re-exhausted .
Not wishing to tax the potash too severely , I did not spend much time during this exhaustion ; a few observations were , however , taken at different heights of the gauge , and the position of the neutral point was apparently a little raised .
The general results were , however , the same as with air .
In a carbonic-acid Sprengel vacuum the repulsion by heat was exactly the same as in an air Sprengel vacuum .
68 .
The remainder of the process for producing a chemical vacuum was then gone through ; the tube was set aside till the potash had done its work , and experiments were then tried with it .
To the heat of a spirit-lamp , a warm glass or metal rod , the fingers , or the image of a gas-flame concentrated by a lens , the balance was very sensitive , being instantly repelled to a distance varying with the intensity of the heat .
Experiments were tried with different rays of the solar spectrum with a similar result to that described in par .
58 .
The vacuum was so nearly perfect that an induction-spark would not pass , but preferred to strike across its full distance in air .
69 .
If one of the most sensitive balances ( straw and pith ( 24 ) , or the glass one last described ( 66 ) ) in a well-exhausted tube is carefully turned on its side , after a little * In these and many of the other observations accurate measurements were taken of the extent of movement by means of a micrometer-eyepiece , and the time was also accurately noted by a seconds watch .
As , however , the equal and uniform delicacy of the instrument could not be depended upon , I think it best only to give the results in general terms rather than to mislead by an affectation of accuracy not justified by the instrumental means employed .
REPULSION RESULTING FROM RADIATION .
practice the beam can be balanced on one point of the suspending-needle , which will be nearly vertical .
In this position the beam has a horizontal movement ; and by carefully adjusting the level of the tube the delicacy of the beam can be made very much superior to what it would be suspended in the ordinary way .
By bringing a warm body near one end of the balance , it is now driven away to the utmost extent , and a piece of ice attracts it with equally marked energy .
70 .
On trying this experiment in air of ordinary density , the approach of a hot body causes unmistakable attraction , and a cold body repulsion .
In a vacuum this mode of arranging the apparatus did not at first appear to offer advantages over the plan already adopted ; but as from the direction of movement it was not likely that air-currents could interfere , or at all events not to any great extent , I have arranged apparatus for obtaining the movements of repulsion and attraction in a horizontal instead of a vertical plane , so as to examine the action in air .
Instead of supporting the beams on needle-points , so that they could only move up and down , I suspend them by the centre to a long fibre of cocoon-silk in such a manner that the movements would be in a horizontal plane .
With apparatus of this kind , using very varied materials for the index , enclosing them in tubes and bulbs of different sizes , and experimenting in air and gases of different densities up to Sprengel and chemical vacua , I have carried out a large series of experiments , and have obtained results which , whilst they entirely corroborate those already described , carry the investigation some steps further in other directions .
I propose shortly to submit an account of this second series of researches to the Society .
71 .
I have more recently instituted experiments to ascertain how far the action of gravitation in Cavendish 's celebrated experiment is likely to be modified under the influence of heat .
For many months I have been experimenting with apparatus devised for this purpose .
The investigation is not sufficiently advanced to justify further details , but I may perhaps be permitted to give here an outline of one of the results .
72 .
I find that a heavy metallic mass , when brought near a delicately suspended light ball , attracts or repels it under the following circumstances:\#151 ; I. When the ball is in air of ordinary density .
a. If the mass is colder than the ball , it repels the ball .
b. If the mass is hotter than the ball , it attracts the ball .
II .
When the ball is in a vacuum .
a. If the mass is colder than the ball , it attracts the ball .
b. If the mass is hotter than the ball , it repels the ball .
73 .
The density of the medium surrounding the ball , the material of which the ball is made , and a very slight difference between the temperatures of the mass and the ball exert so strong an influence over the attractive and repulsive force , and it has been so difficult for me to eliminate all interfering actions of temperature , electricity , \amp ; c. , that I have not yet been able to get distinct evidence of an independent force ( not being of the nature of heat or light ) urging the ball and the mass together .
Experiment has , however , shown me that , whilst the action is in one direction in dense air , and in the opposite direction in a vacuum , there is ( as I have already pointed out with the balances ) an intermediate pressure at which differences of temperature appear to exert little or no interfering action .
By experimenting at this critical pressure , and at the same time taking all the precautions which experience shows are necessary , it would seem that such an action as was obtained by Cavendish , Reich , and Bailey should be rendered evident .
74 .
Throughout the course of these investigations I have endeavoured to keep in my mind the possible explanations which may be given of the actions observed , and I have tried , by selecting some circumstances and excluding others , to put each hypothesis to the test of experiment .
The most obvious explanation is that the movements of the beam , or of the horizontal index ( 69 , 70 ) , are due to the currents formed in the residual gas , which , theoretically , must be present to some extent even in those vacua which are most nearly absolute .
In favour of this explanation it may be urged that a highly rarefied gas may be much more mobile than when it is denser , and therefore the more rapid impingement of its particles , when set in ascension by warmth , would increase their mechanical action .
Increased momentum may counterbalance diminished number .
That the residual gas in an air-pump vacuum is capable of exerting considerable mechanical action , may be assumed by the phenomena attending the passage of meteorites through the upper regions of the atmosphere , their friction against the air at an average height of 65 miles above the earth 's surface raising them to incandescence , although at that height the attenuation of the air probably surpasses that of most artificial vacua .
On the other hand , it is most difficult to believe that the residual air in a Sprengel vacuum , where the gauge and barometer are appreciably level , can exert , when gently warmed by the finger , an upward force capable of instantly overcoming the inertia of a mass of matter weighing several grains , and setting it in motion .
It must be remembered that the upward current supposed to do this is simply due to the diminished weight of a portion of the gas , caused by its increase in volume by the heat applied .
75 .
Another argument in favour of the air-current explanation can be drawn from the fact that when a light beam , having equal weights of pith and platinum suspended at the ends , is sealed up in a Sprengel vacuum , the application of warmth below causes the pith to rise more readily than the platinum ( 62 ) ; the pith obviously offers a much more extended surface than the platinum does to the impact of air-particles .
This , moreover , is not an isolated instance .
Throughout the whole of these experiments the law appears to be that the force exerted is in proportion to the extent of surface exposed ( 48 , 62 , 63 , 64 , 65 , 67 ) rather than in proportion to the mass .
Much REPULSION RESULTING FROM RADIATION .
surface and extreme lightness are the requisites in selecting materials for the beam , index , or gravitating mass ; and when the masses have the same specific gravity and extent of surface , their position in respect to the source of heat determines the extent of movement .
Thus a cylinder of pith is more sensitive when arranged for the heat to act on its side than on its end ; and the film of mica in experiment 65 was more affected when the heat struck its flat surface than its edge , although the difference was not so great as might have been expected had air-currents been the cause of motion .
76 .
But these facts can equally well be used on the opposite side ; for assuming that the movement is due to a repulsive action of radiation , it is reasonable to suppose that extended surface , weights being equal , would have an advantage .
The repulsion by radiation only acts on the surface of bodies , and does not seem to act on the molecules which constitute thickness .
When radiant heat gets below the surface of a body , it spends itself in doing mechanical work of another kind , viz. dilatation or expansion .
77 .
However strong may be the reasons in favour of the air-current explanation , they are , I think , answered irrefragably by the phenomena themselves .
An air-current produced by heat can cause the beam of a balance to rise , can drive a suspended index sideways , and , by a liberal assumption of eddies and reflections , can perhaps be imagined to cause these movements to take place sometimes in the opposite directions ; but as rarefaction proceeds these actions will certainly get less , and they will cease to be appreciable some time before a vacuum is attained ; a point of no action or neutrality will be reached .
But this neutral point should certainly be nearer a vacuum when a light body exposing much surface , such as pith , is under experiment than when the mass acted on is heavy like brass ; whereas in practice the contrary obtains .
Pith and thin glass balances , which should be sensitive to highly attenuated air-currents , cease to respond to heat at a rarefaction of 7 millims. ( 30 ) and 45 millims. ( 66 ) , whilst brass only ceases to be affected when the gauge and the barometer are appreciably level ( 43 ) .
But even could the phenomena up to neutrality be explained by air-currents , these are manifestly powerless to act after this critical point is passed .
If a current of air within i millims. of a vacuum cannot move a piece of pith , certainly the residual air in a Sprengel vacuum should not do so ; and , a , the residual air in a chemical vacuum could not move a piece of platinum ( 55 ) .
It is , however , abundantly demonstrated that in all cases , after this critical point is reached , the repulsion by radiation is most apparent , and it increases in energy as the vacuum approaches perfection .
18 .
Again , the movements not only reappear on passing a particular point of atmospheric density , but they take place in the opposite direction ( 31 , 32 , 33 , 44 , 46 , 66 ) .
Thus in all cases , when the atmospheric density is between the neutral point and a vacuum , the action of a body hotter than the moving beam or index is to repel it , whilst the action of a colder body is to attract .
Now it is very probable that were it not for the interference of air-currents the action in air of greater density would always be foi the hot body to attract .
This is actually the case in many experiments ( 27 , 37 , mdccclxxiv .
4 A 38 , 40 , 41 , 66 , 70 , 72 ) ; and observations more recently made , but only alluded to in par .
72 , have proved that in air of ordinary density a cold body repels .
On the supposition that air-currents are the motive power , the effects noticed when the source of heat is internal to the tube , and applied above the moving beam ( 37 , 39 , 40 , 41 , 45 ) , are inexplicable , whilst they are easily comprehended on the repulsion-byradiation hypothesis .
If an additional argument is necessary to show that air-currents are not the cause of the repellent action of a hot body , I bring forward the fact that the movement attains its maximum when there is no air at all present ( 54 , 55 , 68 ) .
79 .
Effects probably due to this repulsive action of radiation are constantly met with .
I will instance the following:\#151 ; Cohesion and adhesion are diminished by heat .
This naturally follows if increased temperature augments the force of repulsion between the molecules .
The phenomenon of the spheroidal state is probably due in some measure to a repulsive force exerted between closely approximated bodies , one of which is at a very high temperature .
This action is generally supposed to take place only when one of the bodies is volatile , and the rapidly formed skin of vapour is held to be a sufficient cause of non-contact .
I venture to anticipate that a condition similar to the spheroidal state will be found to obtain between non-volatile bodies .
Many finely divided chemical precipitates , when incandescent in a platinum crucible , assume a remarkable mobility and flow about like water .
Precipitated silica is an instance which will occur to chemists .
A space can readily be distinguished between the powder and a hot capsule containing it .
Electricity may , however , play some part in this action ; for precipitates , when heated , sometimes become sufficiently electrical by stirring with a glass rod to fly out of the basin containing them ; oxalate of lime possesses this property in a remarkable degree* .
80 .
It must , however , be remembered that my experiments show the action of hot bodies in air to be that of attraction , and that the repulsion by heat only becomes evident near upon a vacuum .
It is seen , therefore , that radiant light or heat has an attractive or repulsive action , according to the medium in which it acts , corresponding results being furnished by cold .
There appears to be an interfering action of air other than that of the currents caused in it by heat , which masks or overcomes the true action of heat ; but in a vacuum this interfering cause is absent , and radiant heat is free to exert its full repellent action , whilst cold or negative heat acts in the opposite direction .
Heat and cold , heat present and heat absent\#151 ; molecular activity and molecular rest are therefore antagonistic in their action on a body free to move in empty space .
The molecules of matter whose mode of motion constitutes heat are drawn together and * Eakaday 's \#166 ; * Experimental Researches in Electricity , ' vol. ii .
p. 163 .
REPULSION RESULTING EROM RADIATION .
condensed as these vibrations diminish in amplitude , whilst heat drives them apart , expanding a solid , changing a solid into a liquid and a liquid into a gas .
The masses used in my experiments are likewise repelled by heat and drawn together by cold .
And it is with no weak force or feeble action that I have been dealing .
It is so decided that in some of my balances the approach of a finger will completely overturn them , whilst the radiant warmth of the body affects them 6 feet off ; and at higher temperatures and with larger masses the action must be still more energetic .
81 .
It is not unlikely that in the experiments here recorded may be found the key of some as yet unsolved problems in celestial mechanics .
In the sun 's radiation passing through the quasi vacuum of space we have the radial repulsive force , possessing successive propagation , required to account for the changes of form in the lighter matter of comets and nebula ; ; and we may learn by that action , which is rapid and apparently fitful , to find the cause in those rapid bursts which take place in the central body of our system ; but until we measure the force more exactly we shall be unable to say how much influence it may have in keeping the heavenly bodies at their respective distances .
So far as repulsion is concerned , we may argue from small things to great , from pieces of pith up to heavenly bodies ; and we find that repulsion shown between a cold and warm body will equally prevail , when for melting ice is substituted the cold surface of our atmospheric sea in space , for a lump of pith a celestial sphere , and for an artificial vacuum a stellar void .
Attraction being developed by radiant heat under influences connected with air , it is not easy to conceive how it will be produced for cosmical purposes by heat ; the upper surface of our atmosphere must present a very cold front , and from this we might argue repulsion by the sun , unless we fill space with a body acting like air , when we should have attraction .
We might readily find conditions for both , but how to harmonize them is a difficulty .
Although the force of which I have spoken is clearly not gravity solely as we know it , it is attraction developed from chemical activity , and connecting that greatest and most mysterious of all natural forces , action at a distance , with the more intelligible acts of matter .
In the radiant molecular energy of solar masses may at last be found that " agent acting constantly according to certain laws " which Newton held to be the cause of gravity .

