Im ] 0n the Limiting Thickness of Liquid Films .
149 j and such a precaution is quite necessary .
The photographs WereA certain number of lines measured by previous T * rsiTe been compared with the new measurements .
Taking lumbers given by ThaKSn , Lecoq de Boisbaudran , and Cornn for lines in the spectra of magnesium , me , cadmium , aluminium , indium thallium , iron , \amp ; c " a close agreement with their measurements spectroscope , which series of photographs is presented with the paper .
\gt ; A distinction is drawn between those lines determined directly with the crating and others too faint to be seen on diffraction photographs , whteh were measured by the aid of the prism spectroscope and an interpolation curve 9* metres in length .
The total number of hues measured and described is 2307 , namelyMagnesium , 42 ; sine , 151 ; cadmium , 141 r aluminium , 30 , indium , 104 ; thallium ?
0 ; jpper , 164 ; silver , 124 ; mercury , 80 ; carbon , 20 ; tin , 129 , lead , 88 , tellurium , 322 ; arsenic , 112 ; antimony , 211 ; bismuth , 1 , air , , a ' A'series of eighteen enlarged photographs , 36 inches in length , are presented with the paper , on which each line has its wave-leng written over it .
II .
" On the Limiting Thickness of Liquid Films .
" By A. W. Reinold , M.A. , Professor of Physics in the Royal Naval College , Greenwich , and A. W. Rucker , M.A. , Professor of Physics in the Yorkshire College , Leeds .
Received March 6 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) The previous investigations of the authors have shown that the specific electrical resistance of a soap film thicker than 374 X 10 mm. is independent of the thickness , and that the composition of films formed of M. Plateau 's " liquid glycerique " may be largely altered by the absorption or evaporation of aqueous vapour which attends even slight changes in the temperature or hygrometric state of the air ( " Phil. Trans. , " Part II , 1881 , p. 447 ) .
In the present paper they describe a modified form of the apparatus which they previously employed .
* The glass case in which the films are produced is surrounded by water , and additional precautions are adopted for maintaining the aqueous vapour within it at the tension proper to the liquid of which the films are formed .
These changes 150 On the Limiting Thickness of Liquid Films .
[ Apr. 19 .
have entailed considerable alterations in details , but the main features of the apparatus remain unaltered .
The new form , however possesses the important advantage that the temperature and hVJrro ' metric state of the air m contact with the films can be kept perfects constant during the progress of the experiments .
With this aZ paratus a number of measures have been made of the electrical resistance of films which have thinned sufficiently to show the black of the first order of Newton 's rings .
The chief interest of these lies in the information which they afford as to the thickness of such films do deduce the thickness from the resistance , it is necessary to assume t at the specific resistance of the films is the same as that of the liquid m mass .
The authors ' previous experiments do not enable them to assert the truth of this assumption for such thin films , and it was therefore important to ascertain by an independent method whether it might be taken as approximately true .
For this purpose between 50 and 60 plane films were formed in a glass tube 400 mm. long , and 18 mm. in internal diameter .
The tube was closed by pieces of plate glass , and placed in the path of one of the interfering rays in a Jamin 's " interferential refractometer .
" When the films had become black , a known number were broken by bringing an electromagnet near to the tube , and thus moving some sewing needles , which had been enclosed along with the films .
The mean thickness of the films was deduced from the displacement of the interference " fringes " caused by their rupture .
For reasons given in the paper two tubes were used .
One was placed in the path of each of the interfering rays , and the mean of the values obtained by breaking the films in each tube in turn was taken as the result of the experiment .
Two liquids were observed , viz. , M. Plateau 's " liquids glycerique , " and a soap solution containing no glycerine .
Details are given in the paper .
The following are the means of the various groups of observations .
Liquid .
Method .
Mean thickness in terms of 10"6 millims. " Liquide glycerique " . .
Electrical 11*9 Optical 10*7 Soap solution ... ... ... .
Electrical " _ . . .
T _ T .
11 *7 Optical 12*1 The agreement between these numbers is sufficiently close to make the fact that they are approximately correct unquestionable , and to prove that the mean thickness of a black film is nearly the same for both liquids .
; ; On the Total Solar Eclipse of May 17 , 1882 .
1883 .
] The electrical observations afford a means of comparing the fViVknesses of different black films , and observing whether the .
the black portion of any particnlar film alters as its area 'ncSseT The results obtained in the paper and in a previous preliminary investigation on the same subject ( " Proe .
Roy .
Soc , .
" 334 ) are summed up by the authors as follows :Na ) Persistnt soap films , which thin sufficiently to exhibit the i black of the first order of Newton 's rings , invariably display an !
apparent discontinuity in their thickness at the boundary of the black *e Uack regi'n at *he Ume 'f ' 'r very 80011 aftei ' ^^^^^^"Stered in any film , whether the coloured parts of the film are thinning or thickening , increasing or diminishing in extent .
\#166 ; , , ( 4 ) It is different for different films , but no connexion has been traced between its magnitude and the time which elapses ^between the first formation of the film and the first appearance of the black , oi between either of these and the time of observation .
' \#166 ; ( 5)The mean values of this thickness are the same to within a fraction of a millionth of a millimetre , whether the films are plane or cylindrical , in contact with metal or with glass , formed of soap solution alone , or with the addition of more than two-thirds of its volume of glycerine . .
, . .
n ( 6 .
) Two totally independent methods of measuring the thickness ot the black portions of the films give concordant results .
( 7 ) The mean value of the thickness calculated by giving equa weight to the results of the electrical and optical experiments is 11-6 X 10-6 mm. The extreme values were 7*2 X 10 and 14-5 X 10~6 mm. ' .
... .
' .
The smaller of these quantities is therefore a limiting thickness to which a soap film in air saturated with the vapour of the liquid from which it is formed rarely attains , and below which none of the films observed by us have thinned .
III .
" On the Total Solar Eclipse of May 17 , 1882 .
" By ARTHUR Schuster , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Captain W. de W. Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received April 9 , 1*583 .
( Abstract .
) The first part of .
this paper gives an account of the journey and preparations for the eclipse .
Three instruments were to be use .
during totality .

