184 On the Spontaneous Crystallisation of Monochlovacetic Acid and its Mixtures with Naphthalene .
By H. A. Miers .
F.R.S. , and Miss F. Isaac .
( Received January 26 , \#151 ; Read February 18 , 1909 .
) ( Abstract .
) The object for which the present investigation was undertaken was to study the spontaneous crystallisation of mixtures of two substances which form mixed crystals and possess a minimum , or eutectic , freezing point .
According to Cady , * naphthalene and monochloracetic acid are such a pair of substances , and possess a minimum melting point of 53'*5 for the eutectic mixture of 29'4 per cent , naphthalene , 706 per cent , monochloracetic acid .
We have attempted to verify Cady 's freezing and melting point curves , but , although our experiments confirm the former , we were quite unable to verify the latter .
Pickering mentions four modifications of monochloracetic acid , j* and traces the freezing point curves for three of them .
Our study of mixtures of monochloracetic acid and naphthalene has not given us the information we expected concerning the composition of the " mixed crystals " which separate spontaneously from a solution , but it has led to interesting results concerning the spontaneous crystallisation of the different modifications of a substance dissolved in another substance which is not polymorphous .
The Different Modifications of Monochloracetic Acid and their Mutual Transformations .
Microscopic examination of crystals of monochloracetic acid obtained from fusion or solution show clearly that three different modifications a , fi , and 7 of the acid exist .
These modifications have melting points 610,5 , 55 ' , and 50 ' ; they are formed on the microscope slide under different circumstances , each modification yielding rhombs quite distinct from those of the two other modifications .
If fused monochloracetic acid be cooled suddenly it crystallises as the 7-modification in rhombs having a plane angle of about 59 ' .
If these rhombs be touched they at once transform into the / 3-modification and give rhombs having a plane angle of about 72 ' ; or occasionally the 7-rhombs are transformed at once into the stable a-modifi-cation of the acid , which exists as broad needles having an acute angle of * ' Journ. Phys. Chem. , ' 1899 , vol. 3 , p. 127 .
t 'Journ .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1895 , vol. 67 , p. 664 .
Spontaneous Crystallisation of M etc. 185 43 ' .
The transformation from 7 to a takes place much more rapidly than the transformation from 7 to / 3 .
Similarly , if rhombs of ( 3 are formed on a microscope slide they may be at once transformed into the a-modification by inoculating with a fragment of a. Each transformation is accompanied by a rise of temperature .
A remarkable feature of the change is that the more stable modification crystallises with sharp edges in the solid mass of the less stable substance , as though it were growing in a liquid .
Aqueous Solutions of M Acid .
The aqueous solutions were treated by the methods already employed for the various solutions and mixtures for which we have determined the supersolubility curves .
The changing constitution of the cooling stirred solution was traced by means of the refractive index measured by the method of total reflection within a prism immersed in the solution .
As the temperature fell the refractive index of each solution was found to rise until it reached a maximum ; at this point a dense shower of crystals appeared , accompanied by a fall in index and a rise of temperature .
It was found that for a given solution , if the shower of crystals was of the 7-modification , the index attained a higher maximum , and the shower occurred at a lower temperature than for showers of the a- or / 3-modification .
When the shower was of the / 3-modification the maximum index was higher and the temperature lower than for a shower of a-crystals .
This indicates that the solutions become labile for the 7-modification at lower temperatures than for / 3 and a , and at a lower temperature for the / 3- than for the a-modification .
Long series of experiments have enabled us to establish three supersolubility curves separating the labile and metastable regions corresponding to the modifications a , / 3 , and 7 of the acid .
These supersolubility curves are separated from each other by intervals of 5 ' to 6 ' .
After a cooling solution has first given a shower of / 3-crystals on the / 3-supersolubility curve , a second shower of a-crystals may occur , and the whole of the / 3-crystals will be transformed into a-crystals with rise of temperature .
Similarly , with a solution first giving a shower of 7-crystals , on the 7-supersolubility curve , a shower of / 3-crystals usually occurs , with rise of temperature , and transformation into / 3 ; and then , further , a shower of a-crystals may occur , with another rise of temperature , and transformation into a. The three supersolubility curves have also been verified by an independent method .
Aqueous solutions of varying concentrations were enclosed in sealed tubes and heated to about 80 ' until all the crystals had dissolved .
The tubes were then allowed to cool very gradually while they were shaken 186 Mr. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
Spontaneous [ Jan. 26 , continually in a water bath , and the temperature at which crystals first formed spontaneously in each tube was noted .
Sometimes a-crystals first separated , and sometimes / 3- or 7-crystals .
The temperatures at which the various modifications crystallised spontaneously in the tubes were found to agree very closely with the temperatures determined by the maximum index and spontaneous showers in the preceding experiments .
The solubility curves for three modifications of monochloracetic acid have already been traced by Pickering : these modifications he calls a , / 3 , and ; he also obtained one point on the solubility curve for a fourth modification which he called 7 .
We have obtained the three solubility curves for the / 3- , and 7-modifications by an independent method which has been used in our previous work .
Solutions of known concentrations were enclosed in sealed tubes and were heated until all the crystals had dissolved except one or two very small crystals which were preserved at the upper end of the tube .
The tubes were then allowed to cool gradually in a water bath while the enclosed crystals were watched with a lens .
The small crystals were seen to dissolve at first , but when the water bath had fallen to a certain temperature the crystals began to grow , their edges becoming quite sharp .
This is the temperature of saturation .
In this manner the solubility curves have been obtained for the three modifications a , and 7 of the acid .
The results obtained for the a- and / 3-curves agree almost exactly with those of Pickering ; also the point found by Pickering on the 7-solubility curve coincides with the point on the 7-solubility curve here determined , but no direct evidence has been obtained of the^ existence of the fourth solubility curve for the ^-modification of the acid obtained by him .
Mixtures of Monochloracetic Acid and Naphthalene .
The second part of this paper deals with mixtures of monochloracetic acid and naphthalene .
These substances Cady describes as forming mixed crystals and possessing a minimum eutectic freezing point .
In a long series of experiments , however , we have never found any indication of mixed crystals .
The melting and freezing points of a large number of mixtures were carefully determined , but in no case was there found to be any appreciable difference between these temperatures , and microscopic experiments confirm this result .
The study of these mixtures , therefore , yields results similar to those obtained for mixtures of salol and betol , * a new feature being introduced by the existence of the three modifications of monochloracetic acid .
The solubility curves for the mixtures of monochloracetic acid and * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 79 , 1907 .
1909 .
] Crystallisation of Monochloracetic Acid , etc. naphthalene were first determined by means of a precisely similar method to that described above .
Mixtures of various concentrations were enclosed in sealed tubes and the temperature of saturation noted by observing the point at which a small immersed crystal first begins to grow in the liquid mixture .
In this way it has been found possible to trace four solubility curves , i.e. , the solubility curve for naphthalene in liquid monochloracetic acid , and the three solubility curves for the modifications a , ft , and 7 of the acid in liquid naphthalene .
Each of these latter meets the naphthalene solubility curve in a eutectic point , the four solubility curves thus giving three eutectic points .
The supersolubility curves have also been determined .
The melting points of these mixtures were too high to render the use of the goniometer convenient .
Their refractive indices were , therefore , not investigated , but the temperatures of spontaneous crystallisation were observed in the manner mentioned above , by enclosing mixtures of known concentrations in sealed glass tubes and shaking the tubes continually as they cooled .
The tubes also contained fragments of glass or corundum to ensure friction .
In this way four supersolubility curves for these mixtures have been determined , giving the highest temperatures at which naphthalene and the a- , ft- , and 7-modifications of the acid form spontaneously in a liquid mixture .
It is thus possible for a given mixture to crystallise at four different temperatures on different occasions according as naphthalene or the ft- , or 7-modification of the acid forms spontaneously within it .
The supersolubility curve obtained for naphthalene intersects the three monochloracetic acid curves in three hypertectic points .
These points give the highest temperatures at which naphthalene and each modification of monochloracetic acid can crystallise spontaneously together .
The four solubility and four supersolubility curves , when plotted on a diagram , show that in a mixture of twro substances , one of which exists in three modifications , no less than eight freezing points may be exhibited by a single cooling mixture .
This investigation has , therefore , shown that each modification of a polymorphous substance possesses a definite and different temperature of spontaneous crystallisation in its mixtures with another substance which is not polymorphous .

