2 .
" OnI the Temperature of Man within the Tropics .
" By John Davy , M.D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. In a former paper which was published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1845 , the author gave the results of an inquiry on the temperature of man in England , as measured under the tongue by a thermometer made for the purpose , and using certain precautions necessary to ensure accuracy .
An inquiry of the same kind and with the same instrlument he has conducted in the West Indies , extending over a period of nearly three years and a half .
This is the subject of his present communication .
For the sake of comparison , he has followed in it nearly the same order as in the former .
The results are given in a tabular form , divided into sections , and are followed by an appendix in which are recorded the daily observations in monthly sequence , accompanied by observations on the pulse , respiration and atmospheric temperature .
The following are the principal conclusions which seem to be warranted by the results:1 .
That the temperature of man within the tropics , on an average , is nearly 1 ?
higher than in a temperate climate , such as that of England .
2 .
That it is constantly fluctuating , in health , within a range of from 1 ?
to 2 ?
in the twenty-four hours .
S. That the order of its fluctuation is not the same as in England , being lowest in the early morning , after the night 's rest , and not as in England , at night , before going to rest .
4 .
That all exertion , whether of body or mind , except it be very gentle , varies the temperature ; that gentle exercise , as carriage ex ercise or slow walking , has a depressing influence .
5 .
That between the temperature of the surface of the body and that of the deep-seated parts , there is little difference , not exceeding on the average 2 ?
or 3 ?
, and often less ; with which there appears to be connected increased activity of the function of the skin and a diminished action of the kidneys .
6 .
That in a healthy state of the system , increase of temperature from exercise or any other exciting cause , is of short duration , rapidly subsiding on rest , and commonly followed by some depression , i. e. below its average degree .
7 .
That in sea-sickness , except when severe , the tendency is to equalization of temperature ; but when severe , to increase of temperature , the marked effect of deranged health , with few if any exceptions .
8 .
That a sea voyage without sea-sickness , has also an equalizing influence on the temperature , not preventing however its increase with increase of atmospheric temperature , and its lowering with diminution of atmospheric temperature .
The author expresses belief that the results obtained admit of practical application in relation to health and disease : on this part of the subject , however , as unsuitable to the occasion , he does not dwell , reverting only to the circumstance pointed out in his former paper and now confirmed , that variation , not equability of the temperature of man within certain limits , however produced , is conducive to health , presenting therein an instance of happy adaptation as regards his mode of life and sphere of action .

