" On the Amount and Changes of the Polar Magnetism at certain positions in Her Majesty 's Iron-built and Armour-plated Ship ' Northumberland .
' " By FREDERICK JOHN EVANS , F.R.S. , Staff-Captain R.N. , in charge of the Admiralty Magnetic Department .
Communicated with the sanction of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty .
Received March 5 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The 'Northumberland ' is a ship of 6621 tons , built at Millwall , River Thames ; head N. 392 ?
E. magnetic , and completed with the armour-plates in the same direction : the launch was effected on 17th April 1866 ; she then lay for eight months in the Victoria Docks , head S. 22 ?
W. magnetic , or in a direction nearly opposite to that occupied in building .
From January to March 1867 she lay at Sheerness swinging to wind and tide : the ship was then removed to Devonport and placed in dry dock , head S. 84 ?
E. magnetic , where she has remained till the present time .
Observations of deviation and horizontal and vertical force were made at the standard compass ( elevated 8 ; feet from the iron deck , and 172 feet distant from the stern ) , the poop- , and two steering-compasses ( starboard and port ) , the latter being on the quarter-deck below the poop-compass , the group being placed near the steering-wheel , 52 feet from the stern , and each compass 4 feet above its own deck .
The polar force at each compass was originally directed to the part of the ship which was south in building ; it diminished in the Victoria Docks , showed a tendency to return to its original value at Sheerness ; and finally a large force to starboard was developed by the position of the ship in dock for the lengthened period at Devonport .
Tables are appended giving the magnetic coefficients for each compass from time to time , extending from 17th April 1866 to 10th December 1867 .
The results show that the greater part of the polar magnetism was caused by the subpermanent magnetism of the whole mass of the ship , due to her position in building and afterwards : this polar force was so great as to require correction by magnets in addition to the usual tabular corrections .
The 'Northumberland ' was the subject of a singular attempt to " depolarize " her , by the Patentee of a process " for an improved method of correcting the deviation of compasses in iron ships"* .
The attempt was made-first , on the 4th August 1866 , in Victoria Docks , by moving electromagnets over the external plates of the ship , but without effect ; next at Sheerness , in January 1867-a similar process without effect ; then by applying electromagnets to the beams of the poop-deck , in immediate proximity to the poopand two steering-compasses , and with considerable effect , as a powerful north pole of a subpermanent quality was developed in the centre of those beams ( about 5 feet abaft the compasses ) , producing a repulsive force on the poopand steering-compasses amounting nearly to two-thirds of the earth 's force .
By this the semicircular deviation of the poop and port steering-compasses was reduced to I of its original amount , returning , however , in the course of a year ( eleven months ) , as determined by observations made in June , August , and December 1867 , to 3 of its original amount .
The deviation of the starboard steering-compass was altered slightly in amount , and largely in direction ; but is now , in common with that of the two compasses just named , gradually returning to its original state .
The deviation of the standard compass was not affected by the operations in the slightest degree .
The " heeling " deviation of the poop-compass was affected in nearly the same way as its semicircular deviation : the " heeling " deviation of the starboard steering-compass was increased ; but the increase , like the decrease of the poop-compass , was fast disappearing in December 1867 , The correction by the " depolarizing " or " demagnetizing " process was therefore both imperfect and transient , and productive of more injury than benefit ; in consequence of which the author has submitted to the Admiralty that no so-called " depolarization " should be allowed within 20 feet of any compass placed for the navigation of the ship .

