217 On Impact with a Liquid Surface .
*of up , the whole motion would he downwards .
But even if the eracks I mention did not take place , the contraction by cold would pull the ice downhill , not up , whilst the expansion by increase of temperature would tend to push the glacier downhill , so that these opposite actions would produce similar effects in moving the glacier , or such part of it as could be acted upon by external temperature , downwards , j " I may also add that when a crack , however slight , is formed by I contraction , the cold is admitted into the body of the glacier , and increases the contracting power or influences .
" " On Impact with a Liquid Surface .
" By A. M. WORTHINGTON , M.A. Communicated by Professor Osborne Reynolds , F.R.S. Received January 27 .
Read February 16 , 1882 .
[ This paper is made up of the abstract already printed in the " Proceedings " \#151 ; here reprinted for the convenience of the reader\#151 ; and a selection of the figures sent in by the author , together with a description of them extracted from the original paper .
] The apparatus previously used* by the author for following the progress of the splash of liquid drops impinging on a solid plate has been improved .
The main principle of the method by which successive stages are isolated and rendered visible remains the same , viz. , instantaneous illumination at any desired stage by means of the primary spark of an induction coil ; but the timing of the illumination is now effected by a timing-sphere let fall simultaneously with the solid or liquid sphere whose impact is to be observed .
The timing-sphere strikes a plate whose height can be adjusted , and thereby starts the mechanical action which results in the spark .
The time interval between successive stages of the disturbance can be measured to within a few thousandths of a second .
The significant portion of the whole series of changes in most of the splashes observed is comprised within about one-third of a second .
The impact of both solid and liquid spheres has been studied , , and is illustrated by several series of drawings which accompany the paper .
Milk drops falling into water were found to produce a similar .disturbance to that resulting from the impact of similar water drops , and were used for the sake of distinguishing the original liquid of the drop from that into which it fell .
With a drop about 5 millims. in .diameter , falling from less than 1 metre , an annular rim is raised at the first moment of impact , bounding a hollow which is afterwards .characterised by regularly disposed radial ribs and arms , at the # .
" Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 25 , pp. 261 , 498 .
Mr. A. M. Worthington .
bottom of which the drop descends , passing below the surface and becoming completely submerged to emerge again at the head of a column of adherent liquid , but with its upper portion apparently unwetted by the liquid with which it has been covered .
The column then subsides , and the liquid of the original drop is seen to pass into the well-known vortex ring which descends through the liquid .
The influence of velocity of impact in modifying the phenomenon is shown by the drawings .
When the drop is large , and the fall considerable , the rim thrown up takes the form of a hollow crater-like shell of liquid , the mouth of which closes over the drop , imprisoning air which may remain as a bubble on the surface .
This is the bubble seen when large rain drops fall into water .
Observations of the bursting of this bubble confirm incidentally the explanation lately given by J. Plateau of the manner of bursting of a soap bubble .
The splash of a milk drop in petroleum and in olive oil is also described .
The course of phenomena is very similar to that in water , modified however by the greater or less mobility of the liquids in question .
The impact of solid spheres is then described .
The nature of the disturbance produced , with a given velocity of impact , is found to depend entirely on the state of the surface of the sphere .
A polished and perfectly dry sphere of ivory or marble 1 to .
8 centims. in diameter , let fall from a height not exceeding 1 metre , is apparently wetted at once , and is seen to be sheathed with liquid before the whole is below the average level of the surface .
The disturbance of the surface is very slight .
The same sphere if rough or wet with the liquid in question , behaves quite differently , making a very deep impression , similar at first to that produced by a liquid drop , which finally becomes an almost cylindrical column of air within the liquid , part of which afterwards rises as bubbles while a portion descends in the wake of the sphere .
The influence of roughness in hindering the spread of liquid over the surface of the impinging sphere is then pointed out .
At the close of the paper an explanation is put forward of the radial ribs , arms , and striae which are a notable feature of all splashes .
Measurements of the annular rim bordering a thin central film into which a drop falling upon a plate passes , * show that the number of the lobes and arms which are subsequently observed , agrees well with the number of drops into which such an annulus would theoretically tend to split if unhindered by friction with the plate on which it rests , and it is then pointed out that the effect of the connecting film would be exactly such as to counteract the influence of this friction .
* " Proc. Koy .
Soc. , " vol. 25 , p. 500 , fig. 4 .
On Impact with a Liquid Surface .
In the same way " the radial stria ) and ribs which characterise the hollow formed round a drop or solid sphere impinging on a liquid surface , are accounted for by the instability of the annular rim of the hollow , * which through its tendency to cleave into a definite number of drops , determines a corresponding number of lines of easiest flow , at each of which a rib or arm is developed .
\#166 ; j The author has observed that after the details have been once ^revealed by the method of instantaneous illumination , it is not difficult to identify the broad features of any splash that may occur by \#166 ; attentive observation in continuous light .
Such observation may afford valuable information as to the condition of the surface of an impinging solid .
[ What follows is extracted from the " Description of the Phenomena .
" ] Series I. ( 7 ) x \#151 ; -0979 .
Mr. A. M. Worthington .
r= -1095 .
r= -167 .
Series I shows the splash produced by a milk-drop '496 centim. in diameter falling into water from a height of 8 centims. , which differed in no material respect from that due to a fall of 6 centims. , which was the lowest that I could observe .
[ In most of the figures of these and the succeeding series the disturbing drop or sphere is in the centre ; the white parts round it represent those raised portions of the liquid which catch the light. .
The numbers at the side of each figure give the time interval in seconds from the occurrence of the first figure .
] In respect of the agitation communicated to the liquid the phenomenon already differs from that which occurs with a fall of less than 1 centim. A hollow is formed with a raised lobed edge , into which the drop descends , at first flattened out against the bottom ( fig. 2 ) .
The hollow as the drop descends becomes wider and deeper , but finally ( fig. 8 ) closes over the drop , which , however , soon again emerges as the hollow flattens out , appearing first near , but still below , the surface ( in fig. 4 ) in a flattened lobed form , and afterwards rising as a column , somewhat mixed with adherent water , in which traces of the lobes are4 at first very visible .
The origin of these lobes is explained at the close of the paper .
The column which is elevated being nearly cylindrical is approximately subject to the same laws of stability as a cylinder , and accordingly divides into drops before or during its descent again into the liquid .
As it disappears below the surface , the outward and downward flow , causes a hollow to be again formed , up the sides of which an annulus of milk is carried , while the remainder descends , to be torn again a second time into a vortex ring , which however , is always liable to disturbance from the falling in of drops which once formed the-upper part of the rebounding column .
Thus it generally happens that , owing to these subordinate drops , no distinct vortex ring is formed .
Sometimes , on the other hand , two are formed in quick succession .
It is , however , in the next series that the formation of the vortex ring is most clearly traced , and it is on the evidence there afforded that the interpretation just given is really based .
On Impact with a .
Series II .
T \#151 ; .00314 .
.0137 .
( t ) .0498 .
.0551 .
.0759 .
'TV '^'-TVs ' ' .0901 .
Mr. A. M. Worthington .
r= -295 .
Series II exhibits the splash of a drop of milk *502 centim. in diameter , falling from a height of 43 centims. into water .
All the characteristics of the last splash are here more strongly marked .
The hollow is deeper and wider , the drop descending farther below the surface before it is completely covered .
Rays , whose origin will be explained hereafter , are shot out symmetrically from the centre .
Their number seemed to vary a good deal , and I have made no attempt to select drawings which are in agreement in this respect .
It will be understood that these rays contain little or none of the liquid of the drop , which remains collected together at the centre .
The drop , after being completely covered and lost to sight ( figs. 3 and 4 ) , emerges as before ( figs. 5 and 6 ) , but the energy of the impact , instead of being expended in raising1 the same amount of liquid to a greater height , is now spent in lifting a much thicker adherent column to about the same height .
There was sometimes noticed , as is seen in fig. 9 , a tendency in the water to flow up past the milk , which , still comparatively unmixed with water , forms the top of the emergent column .
The greater relative thickness of this column prevents it splitting , and figs. 10 and 11 show it descending below the surface to form the hollow of fig. 12 , up the sides of which an annular film of milk is carried ( figs. 12 and 13 ) , having been detached from the central mass , On Impact with a Liquid Surface .
which descends to be tom again , this time centrally , into a vortex " On increasing the height of fall to 1 metre and retaining the same size of drop , no great change in the nature of the splash takes place , but the emergent column is rather higher and thinner , and shows a tendency to split into drops .
It does not , however , succeed in doing ig0 and a well-defined vortex is produced as before .
But on letting ifall into water a drop of twice the volume ( '625 centim. in diameter ) jfrorn the height of 133 centims. the splash of Series III is obtained , I which is beginning to assume quite a different character .
Series III .
t =0021 .
t= '0042 .
It = *0165 .
i - -0206 .
Mr. A. M. Worthington .
t\#151 ; *0443 .
The raised rim of the previous series is now developed into a hollow shell of considerable height , which tends to close over the drop .
This shell is a characteristic feature of all splashes made by large drops falling from a considerable height and is extremely beantifuL In the splash at present tinder consideration it does not always succeed in closing , but opens out as it subsides and is followed by the emergence of the drop which is now accompanied by so considerable a quantity of adherent liquid that the vortex ring which is formed is not generally well defined .
At other times the shell closed completely , but soon opened again and the configurations to ( 11 ) followed .
At other times , again , the shell having once closed over the imprisoned air never opened again ; the liquid composing it flowed down On Impact with a Liquid Suvfacc* 225\gt ; Seeies IY .
Mr. A. M. Worthington .
the sides , which thus became thinner and thinner till at last a large bubble remained floating on the top of the water .
Series IV shows the formation of such a bubble .
It will be observed that the flow of liquid down the sides is chiefly along definite channels , which are probably determined by the arms thrown out at an earlier stage .
The bubble is generally creased by the weight of the liquid in these channels .
It must be remembered that the base of the bubble is in a state of oscillation , and that it is liable to burst at any moment , when such figures as ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) of Series III , \amp ; c. , will occur .
These figures are in complete accord with the explanation lately given by M. J. Plateau* of the phenomena presented by a bursting bubble .
Such bubbles as those described are often seen when large raindrops fall into smooth water .
Ho vortex ring is produced , and the disturbance caused by such a drop is confined to a very small depth , the liquid flowing off laterally in all directions down the comparatively gentle slope of the sides of the shell .
Series Y shows the splash of a drop of milk *496 centim. in diameter falling into olive oil from a height of 60 centim s. The last four figures are interesting , since they prove the lateral as well as downward flow of the oil , which as it flows away from the vortex drags with it the adherent milk , and , as it were , turns the drop inside out till it recovers itself by irregular jerks under the influence of a surface tension , which at length asserts itself .
This jerky recovery may be perceived by attentive observation in continuous light without the aid of any apparatus .
Impact of Solid Spheres .
It has been already mentioned incidentally that an increase of viscosity in the impinging drop , produced by the addition of glycerine , has its effect on the character of the splash , and it now remains to describe the splash produced by the impact of a solid sphere .
To my great surprise I found that the character of the splash , at any rate up to a height of fall of 150 centims. , depends entirely on the state of the surface of the sphere .
A polished sphere of marble , T28f centims. in diameter , rubbed very dry with a cloth just beforehand , and dropped from a height of 62 centims. into water , gave the figures of Series VI , in which it is seen that the water spreads over the sphere so rapidly that it is sheathed with the liquid even before it is below the general level of * " Quelques Experiences sir les Lames Liquides Minces .
" " Bulletins de 1'Academie Boyale de Belgique , " 3me serie , tome II , No. 7 , 1881 .
f This or a similar sphere T55 centims. in diameter could be used indifferently .
On Impact with a Liquid Sebies Y. Mr. A. M. Worthington .
the surface .
The splash is insignificantly small and of very short .duration .
Series YI .
If the drying and polishing he not so perfect , Series YII is produced ; while if the sphere he roughened with sand-paper or left , Series YII .
On Impact with a Liquid Surface .
Series VIII is obtained , in which it will be perceived that the sphere s followed by a cone of apparently adherent air , while the water seems ; o find great difficulty in wetting the surface completely .
Series VIII .
Part of this column of air was carried down to a depth of at least 40 centims. , and then detached only when the sphere struck the bottom of the vessel .
The last two figures show the side of the crater falling in , but this did not always happen ; the walls often closed over the hollow , exactly as in Series III , figs. 4 and 5 .
Whether the air column meanwhile splits into bubbles in other places below the surface , I could not observe , but it is very probable that it does so , since its form is too nearly cylindrical for its equilibrium to be stable .
When the fall was increased to 151 centims. , the figures of Series IX were obtained .
The tube of fig. 1 corresponds to the shell of Series III and IV , and is not only elevated to a surprising height but is also in the act On Im/ pact with a Liquid Surface .
of cleaving , the outline being approximately that of the undnloid of M. Plateau.* Pigs .
( 2 ) and ( 3 ) show the bubble formed by the Series IX .
closing of this tube weighed dpwn in the centre by the liquid at the lip of fig. 1 , and correspond to figs. ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) of Series IY .
With other liquids , such as petroleum and alcohol , similar results are obtained .
* M. J. Plateau has recently studied the formation of bubbles by the cleavage of such a cylindrical film .
See note , p. 226 .

