]\gt ; Note on the Ascent of Meteorological lloons the Temperature of the Upper Air .
By A. MALLOCK , F.RS .
( Received March ll , \mdash ; Read March 26 , 1908 .
) The recent investigation of the upper atmosphere by means of india-rubber balloons has led to the discovery that an almost constant temperature is reached when the pressure has decreased to about 150 mm. The lowest pressure reached in England is , I believe , a little under 50 mm. , and the corresponding height about 20 kilometres .
I thought it might be of interest to examine , from a theoretical point of view , what the behaviour of balloons such as are used in meteorological work must be as ards the possible heights to which they might ascend and the variations of their velocity as they rise .
The determining factors ( 1 ) The relative density of the gas in the balloon and of the outer air at the same pressure .
( 2 ) The ratio of the dead of the balloon and littings to the total lifting force at ground level .
( 3 ) The compression , by the elasticity of the balloon , of the gas it contains .
As regards the velocity of ascent , the upward accelerating force is equal to the difference of the weight of the air displaced by the balloon and of the gas which fills it , less the weight of the balloon and its load .
This is balanced by the resistance which , for the velocities dealt with , varies directly as the density of the air , as the square of the velocity ( v ) , and as the square of the linear dimensions .
Let be the of the balloon and fittings , the total force when the pressure outside is , and when it is ; also let be that part of the pressure inside the balloon due to its elasticity , so that the actual pressure inside is and the ratio of the densities of the gas in the balloon and of the atmosphere at the same * In this note it is assumed here that does not vary with the height .
This is not quite true : in reality , decreases at first as the height increases , and finally becomes rather greater than it was at first .
See Boy .
Soc. Proc. , vol. 46 , p. 239 , and vol. 49 , p. 458 .
Temperature of the Upper Air .
pressure for .
Then if is the volume of the balloon at pressure and density ; ( 1 ) therefore , say .
( 2 ) Also , if is the velocity with which the balloon would rise from the ground if it had no weight , and did not compress the gas by its elasticity ( i.e. , if and , the ratio of the upward accelerations at ressures p and is or , which must be equal to the ratio of resistances experienced , .
Now , and ; hence ( 3 ) Thus the velocity of the balloon at first increases as the one-sixth power of the ratio of the density of the air at the elevation attained to the density at ground level and when is large ( that is when the tic compression is small ) the upward velocity reaches its maximum not far from the CJreatest elevation to which the balloon can attain .
The balloon will cease to ascend when , and this leads to the following expression for the limiting value of .
( 4 ) The pressure is then mm. The results of equations ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) are traced in , the values Sor and being such as are likely to be met with in practice .
It remarkable how rapidly the velocity decreases as the pressure is approached .
To connect the pressure with the at which it is experienced , the temperature at every point of the ascent must be known , and this information is furnished by the automatic recorder attached to the balloon .
I thought it be of interest to compare the actual temperatures with * Equation 3 ) assumes that the temperature remains constant .
The effect of the temperature falling with the pressure is to reduce the ratio reason being that the decrease in density more than compensates the effect of the increased cross-section .
532 .
A. Mallock .
Meteorological lloons and the [ Mar. 11 , the adiabatic temperatures , i.e. , the temperature which a given volume of dry air would have if transported from ground level to a given height and allowed to expalld without receiving or losing heat .
The at which the pressure is found in these circumstances is ( if height of homogeneous atmosphere ) , which gives a finite limit to the height of the atmosphere at 27 kilometres nearly .
The ratio of the absolute temperatures at and is IOO ZOO 300 Pressure in .
of ) DIAGRAM I.\mdash ; Velocity of Ascent of Balloons .
The ordinates give the ratio of the velocity of a balloon in air at pressure , carrying a load , and with internal pressure , to the velocity at of the same balloon if devoid of weight , and with the external and internal pressures equal .
For , for For isothermal expansion , and if the arbitrary relation between temperature and pressure found from the balloon records is , the actual value of is , the integral of which can readily be found graphically .
The relations of the height corresponding to a given pressure on the 1908 .
] Temperature of the Upper supposition of : ( 1 ) constant temperature ; ( 2 ) temperature as ( 3 ) adiabatic temperature , are given in diagram II , and it is worthy of notice hat the observed decrement of temperature is almost exactly time the cale f G. DIAGRAM II .
The ordinates are fractions of the height of the homogeneous atmosphere .
The abscissae of Curves , are heights at which pressure given by ordinates is found ; A at constant temperature , as observed , with adiabatic expansion .
The abscissae of Curves and are the ratio of the absolute temperatures ; as observed , Fi with adiabatic expansion .
Curve is ratio of observed decrement of temperature to adiabatic decrement .
Curve gives , ) millimetrei3 of mercury , the pressnre equivalent to the heights in of the Upper Air .
adiabatic decrement down to a pressure of rather less than 200 mm. , corresponding to a height of 11 kilometres .
( See curves , and on the same The balloon observations have brought out the fact that at this pressure or thereabouts the temperature ceases to change with the height and remains between and C. up to the greatest height ( approaching 20 kilometres ) to which the balloons have ascended .
Greater heights than this could probably be reached if the balloons were hade more expansible , i.e. , if the unfilled balloons were of thinner material and larger in volume than those at present in use , as this would allow of the same lifting force for the given quantity of gas , and give more scope for expansion with diminished pressure .
I have to thank the Meteorological Office and Mr. W. H. Dines , F.R.S. , for their kindness in giving me the requisite information concerning the observed temperatures and pressures obtained from the balloon records , and for details of the dimensions and weights of the balloons and apparatus .

