]\gt ; .
415 Observations on C.hanges in the Blood Pressure and Blood Operations in .
( Preliminary ommunication .
) By Captain H. C. BAZETT , M.C. , R.A.M.C. ( Communicated by ) .
W. M. Bayliss , F.R.S. Received October 8 , 1918 .
) The cases here investigated were wounded men undergoing operations , and repeated examinations were usually made .
Most of the cases showed only slight symptoms of shock .
Methods.\mdash ; The systolic and diastolic blood pressures were measured before , during , and after operations , a Riva liocci apparatus being used .
The auscultatory method recommended by Oliver was used to determine the two levels .
The haemoglobin was estimated also , as far as possible , at the same time .
The actual level of the haemoglobin value was read by Haldane 's method , while the changes in any patient were determined by comparison of the different samples in a Du Borscq colourimeter .
For this purpose suspensions of the corpuscles in a dilution of 1 in 200 in saline were used , the volume chosen being 10 , and these samples were haemolysed with saponin before being read in the colourimeter .
For this method I am indebted to Prof. Dreyer , and it has proved more accurate than any other .
The blood has been taken always from either the ear or the finger .
In estimating the blood volume changes from these readings , it has been assumed that the blood volume varies inversely as the haemoglobin percentage .
uring and after operations this will be only relatively true , since h.aemorrhage 0CCU1B .
The amount of blood lost may , however , be roughly estimated by the loss of haemoglobin in the first 24 hours after operation .
In cases of slight shock , equilibrium will probably have been reached in this time .
That this is true is indicated by the results obtained and put forward in Case I. In this patient a fair amount of blood was lost during the process of decompression for a fractured skull , and nearly all the blood lost was washed into buckets by a stream of saline running over the wound .
The saline in these buckets was collected after the operation and the haemoglobin content was determined by reading the contents in the Du Borscq colourimeter against a sample of the patient 's own blood , taken before operation .
In this way it was calculated that he lost 782 .
of blood .
By the determination of the change in the haemoglobin value in 24 hours , it was estimated that he lost per cent. of his blood volume , and this was reckoned ( taking Dreyer 's formula for blood volume ) to correspond to a loss of 760 .
The agreement was therefore remarkable , and it is probable that the methods are moderately accurate .
In V0L .
416 Capt. H. C. in Blood Pressure and all the Tables the calculations of blood volume are made neglecting this faot % of haemorrhage .
At the bottom of the Tables the estimated blood lost given , and in the last column of the Tables corrected values for the blood volume are glven iu which the haemorrhage has been approximately allowed for .
The results obtained seemed indicate that the changes in haemoglobin percentage of capillary blood do demonstyte the changes seen in the blood volume , provided that the lag due to a slow circulation and partial stasis is allowed for , the haemoglobin changes following those in the blood pressure .
The results obtained are , briefly , that during the early stages of an tion the pulse rate , systolic , and pulse pressures are all raised , while the .
diastolic pressure is also usually slightly raised , and at this time haemoglobin percentage is slightly reduced , that is to say , the blood volume is .
probably increased .
In the later stages of an operation , or in the postoperative stage , the blood-pressures all fall ; the pulse rate may remain fairly fast , and with the fall of blood pressure there is a blood concentration .
it is seen that in most cases the blood volume curve runs parallel with blood pressure , except that it usually lags about half an hour behind the other curve , and when the circulation is sluggish , as in cases of shock , it may lag an hour or more ( compare Cases II and III ) .
None the less , the two curves usually show a marked similarity .
The cases investigated , as a have shown very slight blood concentration , since nitrous oxide and oxygen anaesthesia was used in all cases in which shock was feared , and with this form of anaesthesia little or no shock was experienoed .
The pulse in even desperate patients .
was often actually improved by the amputation of a .
Any ill effects following operation in these cases with nitrous oxide seemed to be attributable to either loss of blood in the operation or exposure to cold .
In one case ( Case III ) which was resplinted with no loss of blood , but .
considerable exposure of both lower limbs , there was a considerable fall of temperature , and this was the only case that showed real blood atiom to any marked degree .
This case was anaesthetised with pure chloroform .
Since the curves always showed such a marked similarity , the diurnal variations were investigated to determine if they showed a similar relation ship .
One chart of these ( Case ) is included , and it will be seen that relationship still holds good except for a brief half-hour after meals .
diurnal variations cannot be discussed now ; I am indebted to Prof. Dreyer , .
who first drew my attention to these marked diurnal variations in haemoglobin percentage , for permission to mention this .
first worked out these diurnal variations in the haemoglobin percentage , and I only mention changes .
Since , then , there appears to be this interdependence of the changes in the blood pressure and blood volume , it seemed necessary to explain it .
An toli 1artificial schema which araised reservoir oater ater fthrough wected aeasured.asendi iresi dubes , which cYate otimes ahand , this trepresenting traction oeart)beingopenedattheo a found that the output per minute was proportional to the product of pulse rate and pulse pressure .
PR PP .
It was also found that the resistance ( R ) of the artificial schema al.teriole : was indicated by the following formula:\mdash ; where MP is the mean pressure and a high figure for indicates a high resistance\mdash ; but the proportion is not an arithmetical one .
By the use of this formula it was easy to recognise , by the examination of the record , which of a series of tube esistances had been used .
Fig. A gives some examples of records obtained .
In applying this formula , however , to blood pressure changes it did not appear to give reasonable results in cases where there were big changes of blood pressure .
However , on examination of the average pulse pressures found in man with .
different systolic pressures , as quoted for instance in Oliver 's 'Studies in Blood Pressure , ' it is found that the pulse pressure is a function of the square of the systolic pressure , if the blood circulation is otherwise normal .
Thus , taking the figures from Oliver 's book , a child of 15 has a systolic 1 pressure of 107 , and a pulse pressure of 33 , a ratio of PP/ ( SP)2 of On the other hand , an arterio-sclerotic with a blood p1essure of 165 , has a pulse pressure usually of 75 , a ratio of .
The ratio is therefore remarkably constant .
These results are charted in figBInconsidering the actual circulation , the viscosity of the blood must also be allowed for .
Fig. shows the probable changes in the viscosity of the blood for man with diHerent percentages of haemoglobin , this curve being Capt. H. C. Bazett .
in Blood Pressure and So tlIe output of the hearc per minute may be taken as being proportional to PB with a normal of , while the average resistance of the arterioles is represented by the formula MP ' where A is the resistance in the artelioles ( a high figure in'dicating an increased contraction ) , MP is the mean pressure , is the viscosity of the blood in , and the other figures are as before .
The normal figure for A is about 60 .
modified in this way the formula gives results which usually orresponds with the blood volume changes actually observed , an increased vasomotor tone as estimated by the blood pressure being followed by a blood concentration .
The interrelationship of the blood pressure and haemoglobin percentage curves can then be explained .
It will also be seen that in the case of diurnal variations , or patients wibh only slight shock Cases , the value of A may give a graph nearly parallel with the diastolic pressure changes .
On the other hand , the relationship between the value of A and blood volume changes is not obvious iri certain cases , especially in cases with nitrous oxide and oxygen anaesthesia , and in cases where the blood pressure falls to a very low level , where the changes cover a big range .
Probably changes in venous tone are also of great importance , since venous contraction is often induced in septic patients under nitrous oxide and oxygen anaesthesia .
* It is possible , too , that the curve for the value of pulse pressures does not hold good for very low pressures .
With high blood pressures the elasticity of the arteries may depend largely on the fibrous and muscular coats , while with low pressures , elasticity may resemble much more that of an elastic rubber tube .
So that , while the formula seems to hold well for pressures above 100 mm. , it is very possible that the pulse pressures should be divided by and not by the ( systolic presSure ) , whenever the systolic pressure is below 100 mm. of mercury .
Also , with very rapid pulse rates , it may prove necessary to take into consideration the shortening of the duration of systole .
None the less the formula seems to hold good for most conditions .
It detlonstrates the fact that under circumstances such as exercise and excitement , the rise of systolic pressure is accompanied by an actual lowering of It would seem probable tt1at changes in the blood volume may be associated with alterations in the capacity of the arterial stem , when parallel changes will be seen in thblood pressure , or with alterations in the capacity of the veins , when the blood pressure is only ffected .
421 .
than compensating for the vaso-dilatation , an so raising the systolic pressure .
This agrees with the fact that during exercise the diastolic pressure may fall .
In the curves of diurnal variations the lag of the changes in the capillary blood behind the blood pressure changes is very evident , and the haemoglobin change is therefore probably secondary .
On the other hand , the concentration seen in the capillary blood immediately after a meal occurs quickly , is transient , and has no parallel in the blood pressure changes ; it is probably a local and temporary change due to a local constriction olood vesselsbe sstimation oaemoglobin oenous beference tables o after a meal showed it to be almost 10 per cent. more dilnte than the capillary blood , while the capillary blood itself showed this dilution a little later .
So that all the figures seem explicable , if it be assumed any change in the haemoglobin percentage of the oapillary blood , unless it be transient one , indicates change in the blood volume .
In : cases where the peripheral circulation is reduced tto a low level in , a considerable degree of stasis may result , and then the in the capillary blood may lag far behind the general circulation changes .
One case of spinal iesthesia ( Case X ) is included , and though an examination of the blood changes was not possible in this case , yet the changes observed are easily explicable wheIl analysed by the formula\mdash ; the stovaine inducing a fall of blood pressure through a partial vasomotor paralysis , and this compensated for by all increased heart output umtil the resistance is raised by vaso-constriction in other parts .
One case ( Case XII ) of pure traumatio shock uncomplicated haemorrhage or anaesthesia is also included for comparison .
In this case collapse occurred with great dilution the blood , and this is paralleleci by a calculated great loss of vasomotor tone .
This formula is therefore put vard tentatively as of value in the analysis of the circulatory changes in most clinical conditions .
It is not ( claimed its truth absolute , and it can probably be In conclusion , my thanks are due to Prof. Dreyer and Prof. Bayliss for much valuable advice , to Lt.-Col .
Waring , D.S.O. , for the fncilities he me to carry on this esearch , and to Captain Wagstaffe , , for assistance in many of the cases , and for access to all his patients .

