VIII .
Account of a series of observations , made in the summer of the year 1825 , for the purpose of determining the difference of meridians of the Royal Observatories of Greenwich and Paris ; drawn up by J. F. W. HERSCHEL , Esq. M. A. Sec. R. S. Communicated by the Board of Longitude .
Read January 12 , 1826 .
OPERATIONS having been carried on to a considerable extent in France , and other countries on the continent , for the purpose of ascertaining differences of longitude by means of signals , simultaneously observed at different points along a chain of stations ; and the Royal Observatory at Paris , in particular , having been connected in this manner with a number of the most important stations , it was considered desirable by the French government that the Royal Observatory at Greenwich should be included in the general design .
The British Board of Longitude was accordingly invited to lend its co-operation towards carrying into effect a plan for that purpose ; and the invitation being readily accepted on their part , I was deputed , in conjunction with Capt. SABINE , in the course of the last summer , to direct the practical details of the operation on the British side of the channel , and to make the necessary observations .
Every facility was afforded us in making our dispositions , on the part of the different branches of His Majesty 's government to which it was found necessary to apply .
A detachment of artillery was placed , by his Grace the Duke Of WELLINGTON , Master General of the Ordnance , under the orders of Capt. SABINE .
Horses , waggons , and men , were furnished for the conveyance of a tent , telescopes , rockets , and other apparatus ; and four of the chronometers belonging to the Board of Admiralty were placed at our disposal .
The rockets required for making the signals were furnished us from France .
It would have been easy , doubtless , to have procured them from the Royal Arsenal at Woolwich ; but on the representation of Colonel BONNE , to whom the principal direction of the operations in France was entrusted , it was thought more advisable to accept an offer made to us of any number which might be required , prepared at Paris expressly for similar operations , carrying a charge of 8 ounces of powder , the instantaneous explosion of which , at their greatest altitude , was to constitute the signals to be observed .
Our previous arrangements being made , on the 7th of July I left London ; and after visiting the station pitched upon at Wrotham , which was the same with that selected by Capt. KATER and Major COLBY , as a principal point in their triangulation in 1822 ; and finding it possessed of every requisite qualification for the purpose of making the signals , from its commanding situation , being unquestionably the highest ground between Greenwich and the coast , proceeded to Fairlight Down , near Hastings , where I caused the very convenient observatory tent , belonging to the Board of Longitude , to be pitched immediately over the centre of the station of 1821 , which was readily found from the effectual methods adopted by the gentlemen who conducted the trigonometrical operations in that year , for securing this valuable point .
Here , on the 8th , I was joined by Capt. SABINE , who , it had been arranged , should proceed to the first observing station on the French side of the Channel , there to observe , in conjunction with Colonel BONNE , the signals made on the French coast , and those made at the station of Mont Javoult ; which latter were to be observed immediately from the observatory at Paris ; while , on the other hand , it was agreed that M. le Lieutenant LARGETEAU , of the French corps of geographical engineers , should attend at Fairlibht , on the part of the French commission , and observe , conjointly with myself , the signals made at La Canche , the post on the opposite coast ( elevated about 60o feet above the sea , being nearly the level of Fairlight Down ) and also those to be fired from Wrotham Hill , which were expected to be immediately visible from a scaffold , raised for the purpose on the roof of the Royal Observatory of Greenwich .
By this arrangement , and by immediate subsequent communication of the observations made at each station , it was considered that the advantage of two independent lines of connexion , a British and a French would be secured between the two extreme stations ; i. e. the two national observatories ; every possibility of future misunderstanding obviated , and all inconvenience on either side , arising from delay , or miscarriage in the transmission of observations , be avoided .
With the assistance of Capt. SABINE , and by the help of exact information as to the azimuths of Wrothami and other nearer stations in the triangulation of i 821 , with which Capt. KATER had obligingly furnished us , and of which Fairlight Church proved the most convenient , being close at hand and favorably situated and easily visible in the twilight ; and from the previously calculated azimuth of La Canche ( 140 30 ' E. ) ; four night glasses by DOLLOND , provided at the order of the Board of Longitude expressly for this operation , and which I had caused to be fixed on posts firmly driven into the ground beneath the tent , were then pointed , two on the station of La Canche , and two on that of Wrotham Hill .
Those directed to the .
former were of four inches clear aperture , the others of three .
In case of any difficulty arising as to the pointing , I had taken care to provide myself with an excellent eight-inch repeating theodolite , on the REICHENBACH construction , by SCHENCK , of Berne ; but it was found unnecessary to use it , as the night glasses were purposely constructed with an azimuthal motion , and a rough graduation read off by an adjustable vernier , so as to allow their being set at once a few minutes before the observations conmenced , by taking Fairlight steeple as a zero point ; a circumstance which proved exceedingly convenient , as it allowed of their being dismounted after each night 's observations , and removed to a place of security ; and thus rendering it unnecessary to harass our small party by keeping guard in our absence .
On the night of the 8th I had directed blue lights to be fired at Wrotham , as a trial of the visibility of the stations , or rather as a verification of the pointing of the telescopes ; for on the former point there could be no doubt , the station at Wrotham being situated precisely on the edge of the escarpment of the chalk which borders the Weald of Kent , and having been actually connected with Fairlight by direct observation , while no obstacle but a low copse wood , over which it might fairly be presumed that no rocket would flail to rise , separated it from a direct view of Greenwich , at about 20 miles distance .
Either from haze in the atmosphere , or from the too great distance , nothing was seen that night or the next ; which however caused no uneasiness , as we could depend on our .
instruments and information .
The next morning Capt. SABINE quitted Hastings , and joined Col. BONNE , at his post , on the morning of the 10th , the day appointed for the commencement of the observations ; meanwhile I was joined by M. LARGETEAU , who remained with me the whole time of their continuance , performing every part of a most scrupulous and exact observer , as the observations herewith communicated will abundantly testify .
The observations were continued during 12 nights , to signals being made at each rocket station every night .
The weather throughout the whole of this time was magnificent , and such as is not very likely to occur again for some years ; a circumstance of the last importance in operations of this nature , where lights are to be seen across'nearly 5o miles of sea , and also by reason of the verification of the sidereal times at the observatories by transits .
One night only a local fog deprived us of the sight of i,5 out of the 20 signals ; but on the whole , out of 120 made at Wrotham , no less than 112 were seen from Fairlight ( about 40 miles ) and 89 from Greenwich ; while out of the same number made at La Canche , 93 were observed at the former post .
I am sorry to add , however , that owing to a combination of untoward circumstances , which no foresight or exertion on the part of Capt. SABINE or myself could possibly have led us to calculate on , or enabled us to prevent , and which the most zealous endeavours on that of Col. BONNE failed to remedy , no less than eight out of the twelve nights ' observations were totally lost , as to any result they might have afforded , and the remainder materially crippled ; so that a much more moderate estimate of the value of our final result must be formed , than would otherwise have been justified .
Still it is satisfactory to be able to add , ( such is the excellence of the method ) that a result on which considerable .
reliance can be placed , may be derived from the assemblage of the observations of these four nights ; and when it is stated that this result appears not very likely to be a tenth of a second in error , and extremely unlikely to prove erroneous to twice that amount , it will perhaps be allowed that , under such ci'reumstances , more could hardly be expected .
Observations made at the Royal Observatory at Paris .
Station de l'Observatoire Royal .
Feux de Mont-Javoult .
Apparition des Signaux .
Noms Advance 4a ~~~~~ ~~~~~ds Pendule 52 Obsdrves en tems sir le tems Remarques .
de la Pendule .
En tems Sideral .
Observateurs .
Sideral .
AB 24 1i 17h 27 ' 43.'2 17h 27 ' z6."8 Mathieu peu brillant , peu elev6 .
43.5 27.1 Savary 2 37 39.5 : 37 23.I : Mathieu brillant , tres 61eve , j'ai vu un trainee lumineuse de 37 " a 40 " j'estime le grand eclat verse 39".5 , 3 47 48.3 47 31.9 Mathieuassez brillant , tres eleve .
48.7 32.3 Savary 4 57 42.3 57 25.9 Mathieu faible , peu 61eve .
59.6 43.2 Savary -autre feu brillant et tres 61ev4 .
5 i8 73 I8 7 2I.I Savary tres faible , bas .
21 7 57.3 7 40.9 Mathieu 16".4 autre feu assez brillant et eleve .
6 57 41.3 17 24.9 Savary faible et peu eleve .
I7 46.8 17 30.4 Mathieu autre feu assez brillant , eleve .
46.6 30.2 Savary 7 27 46.5 27 30 .
I Mathieu assez brilliant et eleve , explosion non instantanee .
46.4 30.0 Savary 8 37 5I.6 37 35.2 Savary faible et bas .
37 57.2 37 40.8 Mathieu tres brillant et tres eleve .
757.1 7 407 Sar 1 ) 5 ; 7 56.7 57 40.3 Savary premier feu , assez brillant , mais bas .
58 0.3 57 43.9 Mathieu autre feu , tres brillant , assez eleve .
i 17 31 29.9 17 31 12.3 Mathieu tres brillant , tres eleve .
29.6 I2.0 Savary 2 41 29.3 41 11.7 Mathieu assez brillant , peu eleve .
29.3 11.7 Savary 3 5I 36.2 5 ' I8.6 Mathieu assez brillant et eleve .
36.4 i8.8 Savary 4 i8 I 33.3 18 15.7 Mathieu assez brillant et eleve .
22 33.2 I 5.6 Savary I 7.6 5 II 39.4 1 } zi.8 Mathieu tres brillant et assez elev6 .
39.2 z7 i.6 Savary 6 22 1.3 21 43.7 Mathieu assez brillant et eleve .
I. I 43.5 Savary 73I 49.3 3 ' 31.7 Mathieu assez brillant et assez eleve .
49.5 31.9 Savary 9 SI 47.5 I 29.9 Mathieu assez brillant et assez eleve .
47.3 29.7 Savary On a observe les signaux de feu donnes a Mont-Javoult pres de Gisors dans un petit cabinet situe dansr la party superieure de l'observatoire .
Les lunettes dont on se servait 6taient tres pres d'une pendule que j'avais placee dans ce cabinet ; ensorte que l'on pouvait aisement prendre la second et la compter par le moyen des battemens du balancier , qui s'entendaient parfaitement .
Apres l'observation des signaux je comparais , a l'aide d'un chronometre , la pendule a celle qui est en bas " a cote de la lunette meridienne .
Ces comparaisons m'ont donne pour chaque jour l'avance de la pendule des feux sir celle de la lunette meridienne et par suite sir le tems sideral .
Je me suis attache " a regler la pendule , qui est pres de la lunette miridienne par les passages durant le jour des sept &amp; suivantes : Aldebaran , La Chevre , Rigel , a Orion , Arcturus , z Couronne , z Serpent .
J'ai observe 5 de ces etoiles le I8 , 3 le I9 , 7 le 20 , 4 le 21 , et 5 le 22 .
J'ai calcule leurs positions apparentes d'apres les positions moyennes et les corrections in Right Ascension donnees par Mr. SOUTH .
L. MATHIEUJ Statement of the method of combining and calculating the Obser- .
vations , and obtaining the Rates of the chronometers .
PREVIOUS to stating the result of these observations , it will not be irrelevant to explain the method pursued in reducing them , and the principles on which the calculation has been made ; and it may be here remarked , that the brevity and facility of the computations which will appear to be required for this purpose , is not the least recommendation of the method itself .
Suppose A and Z to be the two extreme points whose difference of longitudes is to be determined , and at each of which the true sidereal time is supposed to be known by transits of well determined stars and registered by exact clocks , or carefully compared chronometers .
Intermediate between these , suppose two , or any number of stations , B , C , &amp;c. chosen , at each of which are placed observers furnished with telescopes and good chronometers ; and again , intermediate between these , and in the order A , a , B. b , C , c , Z. let posts or stations a , b , c , be selected , at which signals are made , by the explosion of gunpowder , the discharge of rockets , the extinction of lamps , or otherwise , at regular concerted times , and so arranged that the signals at a shall be visible from both A and B ; those at b from both B and C ; and those at c from B and Z. Now let a signal be made at a , and observed both from A and B. and the moment of its happening noted at A by the sidereal clock , and at B by the chronometer , ; then , if the observations were perfect , the difference of the clock at A , and the chronometer at B , would become exactly known .
Let this be denoted by A -B .
A short time after , -let a signal be made at b , and observed by the chronometers at B and C , whose difference ( which we will in like manner denote by B C , ) becomes thus precisely known at the time of making the signal .
In the same manner may the difference C -Z of the chronometer at C and the sidereal clock at Z be known at the moment of explosion of a signal at c ; and so on , if there be more intermediate stations .
Now , the clocks at A and Z being all along supposed to keep strict sidereal time , if the watches at B , C , did the same , it is manifest that the difference between any two of them determined at one moment would be the same at every other ; and therefore the intervals elapsed between the signals would be out of the question , and the observations might all be regarded as simultaneous ; so that the sum of the differences ( A B ) + ( B-C ) + ( C Z ) =A Z would express strictly the difference of the true sidereal times at the extreme points , i. e. their difference of longitudes expressed in time , without any further calculation or reduction .
It is equally evident that , whatever be the rates of the watches , if the intervals elapsed between the signals were infinitely small , so as to reduce their gain or loss in these times to nothing , the same would hold good .
Since this however cannot be the case , it is obvious that the difference of longitudes so obtained will be affected by the rates of the watches and the intervals of the signals , which must accordingly be allowed for .
Now , as the intervals at which the signals are made at the successive stations are small ( only , five minutes ) , the gain or loss of the watches used may be calculated for such small times to great nicety ; and , if the watches were regulated to sidereal time , and of any ordinary degree of goodness , the correction on this accountwould be almost insensible ; or , if regulated , as is generally the case , to mean time , the reduction from mean to sidereal time only need be applied , neglecting the deviation of the rates from strict mean time .
The calculation then becomes of extreme simplicity ; for since the watches have equal rates , we have no occasion to apply any correction to their observed dif .
ferences ; and it will suffice to apply to the uncorrected value of A ( =A-Z , or ) *A_(A xB ) + ( B'-C ' ) / ( C'Zl/ ) the mere reduction from mean to sidereal time for the interval elapsed between the first and last signal ; or in other words ( regarding the whole operation as a species of telegraphing ) , for the time the message has occupied in its transmission from one observatory to the other.* For example .
On the igth , a signal was made at Mont Javoult , and noted at Paris to have happened at 18h s9m 2 .
true sidereal time at Paris , and at Lignieres at IlC 49m 41s.Q by the Lignieres Chronometer .
About Em after this , a signal made at La Canche was observed at Lignieres to happen at le 54m 5 % , and at Fairlight at 10h 46m 378,5 by the Fair .
light-chronometer .
Finally , a third signal was made about 5m later still at Wrotharm , and observed at 1h film.59S.4 by the Fairlight chronometer , and at 18h 41m 79 .
1 true sidereal time at Greelnwich .
The calculation then stands thus +A+= 8 39 52-50 .
-B -IO 49 4I 00 BB=+05 I'o20 + B ' =+ IO 54 53 20 C io 46 37 550 CC ' +05 21P90 + C+ RIO 51 59 40 -Z =-Ig 41 7 11Sum o 10 34'IO Sum _ +38h 144m165sIO -381 136m85s.6i = oh 8 .
7949 0 oh I 9s9 the uncorrected value of A Reduction from mean to Sid .
T. for an interval =+V 73 Of 'Om 348-10. .
j09 2I2=A the corrected difference of longitudes .
Such is the result of the transmission of a single signal along the line , and such the whole calculation required to deduce it .
It is chosen at random from 'among the observations , yet is probably entitled to at least as much confidence as any value hitherto previously obtained ; a circumstance which sets the excellence of this method in a very strong light .
Such would be the process of calculation in the simplest state of the data , viz. when the signals are seen along the whole line without a failure , so that each message so transmitted arrives at its destination and gives a complete result .
But this ( in the present instance at least ) has not been always , or"generally the case .
It has much more commonly happened that a signal made at one station ( a for instance , has not been simultaneously observed , or not observed at all , at A and at B , while the other signals , at b , c , &amp;c. have been regularly seen and registered .
In every such case ( of which endless -combinations may occur ) a link of the chain fails , and no result can be obtained from this series of observations taken singly .
A very slight consideration will suffice to show that were we to reject all such broken series , the observations of a whole night might easily be thrown away , though capable of affording a result quite as good as any other .
Such a case actually occurs in the observations of the 18th , where no complete transmission of any one signal from end to end of the line took place , yet the mean result of that night 's observations deviates less than two-tenths of a second from the result finally adopted as the truth .
The most advantageous way of employing such a broken series of observations as we have described is not at once obvious .
It may depend on circumstances too nice for calculation and which can be felt only by the observers themselves .
The fairest however , and that which by employing all the observations according to one uniform rule leaves nothing to partiality , seems to me to be the following .
Let A be the time marked by the sidereal clock at the first extreme station A , then calling E the time marked by the same clock at any assumed arbitrary epoch , AGE will denote the sidereal time elapsed since that epoch .
Call i8 the rate or sidereal time of the chronometer at the 2d station ( B ) , X being supposed negative when the chronometer loses , ( as for instance when it shows mean time ) .
At the same moment that the clock at A marks A , let this chronometer mark B , then , since , ( AE ) is the quantity it has gained , since the epochs , BA ( A E ) must be the time it would have india cated , if instead of gaining or losing , it had kept true sidereal time since the epoch .
Consequently ( the clock being sup , posed to have no rate')A-{ B _3(A-E ) }orA-B+ P(A-E ) wtill be the difference of the clock and chronometer reduwed to this epoch , i. e. the difference they would have indicated if instead of comparing them at the time A , they had been compared at the time E. Every signal simultaneously observed at A and B , gives a direct comparison of the clock and chronometer ; but it is only when thus reduced to a fixed epoch that these comparisons become comparable inter se ; but when so reduced their mean may be taken , and is of course preferable to the result of any single comparison .
Hence if we put P-mean of all the ( A -B ) +Ax mean of all the ( A E ) P will express the difference of the clock and chronometer at the epoch more probably than any of the individual values derived from single observations .
It follows therefore that at any other sidereal time A ' , the time indicated by the chronometer at B , ( or B ' ) may be calculated from the expression B'==(A'-P ) + ( 3 ( A'-E ) ( a ) more probably than it can be derived from any single actual observation .
This equation gives Al B'+ P+j E= B ' +P0 ( P + B-E ) I+I neglecting squares and higher powers of A , whence the time by the clock at A becomes known at any instant in terms of that shown by the watch at B. Now let a signal be made between B and C , and noted to happen at the moment marked B ' by the watch at B , and C ' by that at C. Let ( 3 and y denote their respective rates on sidereal time ; then since B'A ( A'-E ) and C'-7 ( A'-E ) are the times they would have marked had they kept strict sidereal time since the epoch , their difference reduced to the fixed epoch will be ( BI_ C ' ) |( , y ) ( At-E ) in which , substituting for A its value above found , we get , ( Bf C()-(k3-- &gt; ) ( P +B BE ) neglecting powers and products of P and y. Putting then Q-mean of all the(B'C')-(3-Ty)-meanof all the ( P+B'-E ) we get the most probable value of the difference of the chronometers at the epoch which can be obtained from any number of such comparisons .
Finally , if we make a comparison at any time A " ( Paris Sid .
T. ) between the watch at C and the clock at z , and call their indications at that moment C ' and Z " , their apparent difference will be C"Z " , and their difference reduced to the epoch will be ( C"/ _ Zf ) _ ( A"E ) .
But Q being the most probable difference between the chronometers B and C at the epoch , and ( I y ) the difference of their rates Q+ ( o-by ) ( A"E ) will be their difference at any other moment A " ; hence B"C"= Q+ ( 3 -y ) ( A"E ) .
But by the equation ( a ) since B " and A " are corresponding times , we have Bl A/ 'W-+P *( ( A"--E ) .
Consequently substituting this for B " we get C"A"-P--Q+v ( A"-E ) whence A"P +Q+ C"-( A"-E ) P+Q+ C " ( P +Q+ C"E ) neglecting the square and higher powers of v : Consequently , still neglecting the same things we get C"-Z"-ry fP+ Q +C".E } for the difference of the timekeepers C and Z reduced to the epoch , and putting R= mean of all the ( C " Z"/ ) -y mean of all the ( P+Q+C"E ) R will be their most probable difference reduced to the fixed epoch .
P , Q , and R , being thus obtained , we must obviously have for the correct difference of longitudes , AP +Q+ R. Now , substituting for P , Q , R , their values , this gives A= mean of ( A-B ) + mean of ( B'C ' ) + mean of ( C@Z " ) +,.mean of ( A E ) + ( r , i).mean of ( P + B'-E ) Y.mean of ( P +Q+ C"-E ) that is , reducing , A= mean of ( A-B)4 + mean of ( B'-C ' ) + mean of ( C"-Z " ) +,3 .
mean of A+ ( vi i3)mean of B'-v.mean of C " HM-0P ThQv This value of A is however susceptible of still further reduction by substituting for P and Q their values ; which if done , and the powers and products of,2 and v neglected , as has all along been done , we get A= mean of ( A B ) + mean of ( B'_ C ' ) + mean of ( C"-Z " ) 4-g.mean of A+ ( ry~-aI3 ) mean of B'y .
mean of C " 3 .
mean of ( A B ) -av .
mean of ( B'C ' ) that is , finally ( since the numbers of the observations of A and of B are necessarily equal , and therefore the mean of the values of AB is equal to the mean of A the mean of1 B , and -so for the rest ) reducing and striking out all the terms which destroy each other .
A-= mean of A mean of B+ meanof B ' mean of C ' ++ mean of C"_ mean of Z " +n{ mean of B-mean of B}+H mean of 0'-mean of C " } or sim ply , denoting by A , B , A ' , B ' , &amp;c. no longer the individual observed times ( to which there will be no occasion again to refer ) but the means of all those which have corresponding observations .
A _AAB + B'C + C'I-z ' , +n ( B , B ' ) + -y ( C C !
( This expression is , as it obviously ought to be , independent of the arbitrary epoch E , which may be assumed any number of hours or days before or after the observations .
The first line of this value of A may be regarded as an approximate one ; the second as a correction depending on the rates of the watches ; and it is clear that the several portions of which this correction consists are the respective gains of the chronometers on Sid .
T. during the mean amounts of the delay of the message between the several stations , taking the expression in its algebraical sense , where a negative delay corresponds to an anticipation .
If all the signals succeeded , the coefficients of 3 and v would be each oh 5 , and the amount of the correction would -be ( d+7)* 254h-$ 8m8 *It would therefore require no less a deviation of one of the chronometers from its assumed rate than 29se , per diem , or of both of them 14 .
, and the same way , to produce an uncertainty in the result to the amount of a tenth of a second ; deviations incompatible with the character of ordinary good watches , not to speak of chronometers .
The worst case that can happen is where the first szgnal only at a gives corresponding observations at the stations adjacent , the last only at b , the first again only at c , and so on .
In this case the coefficients of , and.y would each equal the whole interval between the first and last signal at each post , or ( in the present case ) 1h some , The correction here would be l2X 24 =6 In this extreme case , the sum of the deviations of both watches from their assumed rates , need only amount to 18.6 to produce an uncertainty of a tenth of a second in the result ; and though such a case as here supposed is in the last degree improbable , yet as a certain approach to it is not unlikely , it may be of use to show how the rates of the watches , if not otherwise known , may be obtained , or if known , verified , by the observations themselves .
If we consider the observations on two successive nights , at two of the extreme stations , A and B for instance , calling A and B the means of the simultaneous observations on the first night , and A , B , on the second , we have , assuming for an epoch some time E= any number of days before either of the night 's observations , PA-B + i3(A-E ) But since this is generally true , if the observations be made in sufficient number on both nights to destroy their indivji dual errors in the mean result , we must also have P Aai w w , + ge ( AOE ) equating which we get , A-B(A-E- ) --Al-B.-(Al E ) whence we find ( A , -B ) ( A B ) Af-A In this formula it is to be observed that A , and 13 , are each greater than At hours ; but as timekeepers only register excesses above i2 hours and its multiples , if we wish to denote by A , and B , the mere readings off of the tinmed keepers , we must put 24h + A , and 24h + B , for A , and B , if the interval be one day ; 48h + A , and 48h + B , if two days , and so on , so that ( n being the number of days elapsed ) we get ( A , -B , )-(A-B ) In like manner may the rate y of the chronometer at C be found by comparison with the clock at Z thus , ( z -c , / ) / cX 2411+ Z ; 'Z " If there be intermediate chronometers , the rate of each on that immediately preceding or following it may be found in exactly the same way .
Computation of the Rates of the Chronometers .
From the i8th to the 19th .
1 .
Lignieres Chronometer , or that at station B. Motel , No. 39 .
19th .
A , B7 5m 7 ' 9O A , =9 18h 19m41 83 s8th .
A-B =7 46 8 28 A 18 32 21 8 &amp; ( A , _ B , ) -(A-.B ) =+59* 62 A , -A=-o 1211404o'5 = 311159i9.62 m z4 ; 24h oh 1Zm40-s.05= 4n V74 , 4m 1qs74 294 Whence the rate on mean time= 518 .
Rates of the Chronometers from the 21st to the 22d .
Baker , No. 744 .
Z_ C , = 81 Om47S6O4 Z , == 17h47m 5 5s62 Z C=7 56 48`40 Z=17 38 56'-o +3 58 64 +o8 59 52 ~~3m~58s.64 .
24h 8m -9-i5i 3m 57.16 6 24 Being a-rate of 1s 25 on mean time .
The rates originally assigned to the chronometers on leaving Paris and London , were respectively ( on mean time ) , Motel No. 39 , + 15.8 .
Baker 74,4 , + V.20 .
The former , then , in the interval must have altered its rate ( if that deduced from the observations of the 18th and 1i9th be correct ) , no less than 7St63 ; and between the 18th and 2ist , must have again accelerated its daily rate by 8.31 , fluctuations not to be supposed in a chronometer of any character .
It is therefore probable that the rate 51s83 of the i8th-19th is incorrect , and the observations being positive , and liable to no errors capable of accounting for so large a deviation , the cause , on this supposition , can lie nowhere but in some accidental derangement in that interval .
Now it unfortunately happens , that the interval B -B ' , on the i8th , to which this suspicious rate is to be applied , is nlo less than 41m 20o56 , which produces a correction of 0s1 7 , or nearly two-tenths of a second in the result of that night 's observations .
If we examine the individual observations of both nights on which this rate depends , we shall find no satisfaction , though they tend to confirm the suspicion of a derangement in the intervening day , by indicating rather a gain , than a loss on mean time ; -but the unavoidable errors of observation will not permit the deduction of a rate from such short intervals as those elapsed during the observations of a single night .
However , we may be relieved from the disagreeable necessity of rejecting the night 's observations on this score , by reflecting , that all observations are liable to some errors ; that if we reject this on account of a suspected error of two tenths of a second , arising from the fault of a chronometer , we certainly should not be warrantable in retaining the result of the observations of the 2ist , where the whole night 's work rests on a single signal , and on the transit of a single star observed at Greenwich , and where an error to the extent of nearly half a second , from both causes united , may very fairly be presumed .
We may be relieved , I say , from the necessity of rejecting observations where there are assuredly none to spare , by remarking that , according to any fair estimation of the weight of each night 's result from the number of observations , the most suspicious result , that of the 2ist , is precisely that which holds the lowest rank-and that whether we retain or reject those of the two nights in question , the ultimate result will ( as will hereafter appear ) , be unaffected to the extent of more than three-hundredths of a second .
In appreciating the weights to be attributed to these several results , it is obvious that the numbers of corresponding observations at each pair of stations , and of transits at the observatories , as it essentially influences the probable accuracy of the mean comparison of their timekeepers must be the elements of all fair estimations .
If corresponding observations at any station be wanting , the weight iIs evidently nothing ; so that calling x , y , z , the numbers of corresponding observations at A and B , at B and C , and at C and Z respectively , xxyxz must necessarily be a multiplier of the function expressing the joint weight of the whole .
But if the number of observations at any one station , or at all , be infinitely multiplied , the weight is clearly not infinite .
If at all the stations , it would afford only such a degree of evidence as a perfect comparison of the clocks would give , which isbut a relative certainty , after all , and -may be -denoted by unity .
In like manner , if the observations at any one pair of stations be infinitely multiplied , the result is still open to all the errors of imperfect observations at the rest , so that unity will { in like manner be the maximum of the coefficient depending on any separate set .
The function X 3/ Z X-+ IY+XZ+I is the simplest which satisfies these conditions , each factor vanishing when its variable is o , and becoming unity when infinite .
The same reasoning applies to the transit observations by which the clocks are compared with the stars , so that calling T and t the number of transit observations taken at each , by which the clock 's errors are obtained , the function expressive of the weight of any night 's observations will be

