1871 .
] Dr. A. Gunther 's Description of Ceratodus .
March 16 , 1871 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read rJ .
** Description of Ceratodus , a genus of Ganoid Fishes , recently discovered in rivers of Queensland , Australia .
" By Albert GftNTHER , M.A. , Ph. D. , M.D. , F.R.S. Received February 7 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) After some introductory remarks the author proceeds to give a description of the external characters which appear to indicate the existence of two species , viz. Ceratodus forsteri , with fewer and larger , and Ceratodus miolepis with smaller and more numerous scales .
The microscopical structure of the scales and teeth is treated of in two separate chapters , the latter being compared with the fossils from the Triassic and Jurassic formations , and found to be identical .
The resemblance to the dentition of Protopterus , Psatnmodus , Dipterus and other fossil genera is pointed out .
The skeleton resembles in its general characters , as well as in numerous points of detail , so much that of Lepidosir , that from this part alone the conclusion must be drawn that these genera belong to the same natural group of fishes .
It is notochordal , all its parts having a cartilaginous basis , more or less incompletely covered by thin osseous lamellae .
The ossifications of the skull are but few in number , and may be designated thus :\#151 ; ethmoid ; a pair of frontals separated by a single " sclero-parietal " ; basal , with a tooth-bearing pterygo-p on each side , the latter bones being suturally united in front ; vomer cartilaginous , toothbearing .
Maxillary and intermaxillary elements are not developed , replaced by facial cartilages which are confluent with the suborbital ring , all these parts being cavernous .
Tympanic pedicle cartilaginous , with ossified lamella ( os quadratum ) and double condyle .
Mandible with an articulary and dentary lamella .
Prceoperculum a rudimentary moveable cartilage .
A well-developed operculum and styliform suboperculum .
Hyoid arch more complex than in Lepidosiren , consisting of a pair of ceratohyals , a basi-and glosso-hyal .
Branchial apparatus composed of five arches , of which the last is rudimentary ; not differing from the Teleosteous type , but cartilaginous .
In a vertical section of the head the parts of the brain-cavity and of the acoustic cavity ( which is entirely enclosed in the skull ) are explained .
A pituitary gland is present .
The notochord forms the base for about 68 sets of apophyses , 27 of which bear ribs .
The various modifications in the different parts of the column are described in detail ; and more especially attention is directed to the first rib , which is very similar to that of , where , from its more intimate connexion with the skull , it was interpreted in various 378 Dr. A. Gunther 's Description of Ceratodus .
[ Mar. 16 ways , for instance by Mr. Parker as the " large first pharyngo-branchial .
" Arrangement and detachment of dermoneurals as in The scapular arch and pelvis are more developed than , but typically entirely identical with , those of Lepidosiren .
The paddles are supported by a cartilaginous axial skeleton , that is , by a longitudinal series of joints , with lateral divergent articulated branches , each joint having two of these branches .
The relations of this singular structure to the corresponding parts in Lepidosiren and Selachians are explained ; and there is no doubt that the Ganoids of the Devonian epoch , with acutely lobate fins , had their paddles supported by a similar internal skeleton .
Lye without falciform process or choroid gland .
Heart.\#151 ; The arrangements of the interior of the ventricle and single atrium , and the external appearance of the bulbus arteriosus , are very similar to the same parts in Lepidosiren ; but the valvular arrangement of the bulbus is more " Ganoid , " though considerably modified .
We find at a short distance from the origin of the bulbus , first , a single , cartilaginous , papillary valve worked by a special muscle , then a transverse series of four small short valves ( sometimes reduced to papillae ) , then a transverse series of four oblong raised strips ( rudimentary valves ) , finally a transverse series of four well-developed " Ganoid " valves .
Four arcus aortce enter the four gills , without sending off branches , and four venae branchiales are collected into the aorta descendens .
A description of the principal portions of the circulatory system follows .
The gills are completely developed , four in number , lamellated .
The pseudobranchia does not receive its blood from the heart ; thus an " opercular gill ** is absent as well as spiracles .
The lung is single , but its cavity divided into two symmetrical halves , each with about thirty cellular compartments ; pneumatic duct and glottis as in Lepidosiren ; its dorsal artery is a branch of the A. cceliaca ; and its vein enters the atrium separately from the sinus venosus .
The most important points of the structure of the remaining soft organs are the following:\#151 ; the intestinal tract is perfectly straight and very wide , with a complete spiral valve , along the axis of which large glands are imbedded ; the stomach is indicated only by a shallow double pyloric fold ; there are no pyloric appendages , but a glandular mass appears to represent the spleen .
Not only the , but also the paired , lobed kidneys are provided with a portal system .
The two ureters enter by a , single opening a small urinal cloaca situated at , and partly confluent with , the back of the rectum .
Testicles without developed vas deferens , which appears to be represented by a blind duct , traversing the interior of the testicle , and receiving the semen from the canaliculi seminiferi .
Ovaries transversely laminate , the laminae being the bearers of the stroma in which very small ova are developed ; the ova fall into the abdominal cavity , and are expelled by a pair of wide peritoneal slits behind the vent .
But there 1871.1 Dr. A. Gunther 's Description of Ceratodus .
are also a pair of narrow oviducts , with or without a narrow peritoneal opening , each confluent with the ureter of its side .
In the concluding chapters it is shown:\#151 ; 1 .
That Ceratodus and Lepidosiren ( Protopterus ) are more nearly allied to each other than to any third living fish , that they are well-marked modifications of the same ( Dipnoous ) type , the latter genus diverging more towards the Amphibians than the former .
2 .
That the difference in the arrangement of the valves of the bulbus arteriosus cannot longer be considered of sufficient importance to distinguish the Dipnoi as a subclass from the Ganoidei ; but that the Dipnoi may be retained as a suborder of Ganoidei .
3 .
That the suborder Dipnoi may be characterized as Ganoids with the nostrils within the mouth , with paddles supported by an axial skeleton , with lungs and gills and notochordal skeleton , and without branchio-stegals .
4 .
That a comparison of Teleostei , C , and Ganoidei shows that the two latter divisions , hitherto regarded as subclasses , are much more nearly allied to each other than to the , which were developed in much more recent epochs ; and therefore that they should be united into one subclass\#151 ; Palceichthyes\#151 ; characterized thus : heart with a contractile bulbus arteriosus ; intestine with a spiral valve ; optic nerves non-decussating .
5 .
That there is very strong evidence that the suborder Dipnoi was represented in the Devonian and Carboniferous epochs by the genus Dipterus ( ?
= Ctenodus ' ) ; but that , although Dipterus has internal nostrils and even a pair of vomerine teeth ( beside the molars ) like the living , it must be placed as the type of a separate family of this suborder , on account of its heterocercy .
6 .
That the evidence with regard of Phaneropleuron ( Huxley ) is less conclusive ; and that Tristichopterus ( Egerton ) , with the complete segmentation of its vertebral column , must be excluded from this suborder .
7 .
That the suborder Crossopterygii ( Huxley ) contains two distinct types of " lobate fin , " viz. the " obtusely lobate , " with a transverse series of carpal cartilages , and the " acutely lobate " with an axial skeleton .
Only the latter type agrees with the structure of the Dipnoous limb .
But Polypterus , Coelacanthus , \amp ; c. , which are provided with fins of the former type , are genera sufficiently distinguished also by other characters , to be placed into a separate suborder .

