I. " On the Synthesis of Tribasic Acids .
" By MAXWELL SIM[iSON , M.D. , F.R.S. Received January 25 , 1865 .
( Abstract .
) In a former Number of the ' Proceedings ' *I gave a preliminary notice of a tribasic acid having the composition C , , H 0 , , , formed by the action of potash on tercyanide of allyle .
The process for the preparation of the acid given in that paper I have since succeeded in improving very considerably , so that I can now obtain it in quantity and with tolerable facility .
An account of the improved process is contained in the general paper which accompanies this abstract .
The paper also contains a description of the crystalline form of the acid , for which I am indebted to Professor Miller of Cambridge .
M. Kekuldt proposes to call this body carballylic acid .
This name I cannot , however , accept without some modification , as recent researcllest have proved that it belongs by right to crotonic acid .
I propose therefore , in order to avoid confusion , to call it tricarballylic acid .
Since the appearance of my preliminary paper , I have also prepared and analyzed several of the salts and ethers of this acid , of which the following is a short account .
Tricarballylic Ether , Cp2 6 15 O6 .
( C4 1 5)3 This ether is readily prepared by conducting a stream of dry hydrochloric acid gas into a solution of tricarballylic acid in absolute alcohol .
The product obtained on evaporating the alcohol distils between 295 ?
and 305 ?
C. It is a colourless liquid , is slightly soluble in water , and has an acrid taste .
HIeated with solid potash it suffers decomposition , alcohol being formed and the acid regenerated .
Tricarball ylic Amylic Ether , ( 12 56 } 0 .
This body is formed when dry hydrochloric acid gas is passed into a mixture of one part by weight of tricarballylic acid and two parts of pure amylic alcohol maintained at the temperature of boiling water .
The product may be partially purified by heating it in a retort till 200 ?
C. , and then dissolving it successively in alcohol and in ether .
It is a thick oily liquid , is heavier than water , and has an acrid taste .
Its boiling-point is beyond the range of the mercurial thermometer .
Heated with solid potash , it is resolved into amylic alcohiol and tricarballylic acid .
C12 -5 96 Glyceri-tricarballylate of Baryta , C,6 17 ' 04 0 .
Ba , J This salt was prepared by maintaining for several hours at the temperature of 200 ?
C. in a sealed tube a mixture of one part of tricarballylic acid and two parts of pure glycerine .
The product was neutralized by a solution of baryta , evaporated to dryness , and digested with absolute alcohol to remove the uncombined glycerine .
A buff-coloured powder was thus obtained having , I have no doubt , the composition expressed by the above formula , although my analyses do not correspond very well with it .
The acid combined with the baryta is bibasic , and is represented by the formula C 1 , -O ' f C12 , 0 .
2J Soda-salts of Tricarballylic Acid .
The soda-salts of this acid are very soluble in water and difficult to crystallize .
Three salts may , I believe , be found , containing respectively one , two , and three equivalents of sodium .
One equivalent of the acid I found required for complete neutralization exactly three equivalents of pure carbonate of soda .
The composition of the salt with two equivalents of C12 H5 06 sodium which I obtained in crystals is probably Na2 06 +41HO .
HJ Tricarlallylate of Lime , C12 H5 O6 } OG+410 .
When a solution of this acid is neutralized with lime-water and evaporated , a white amorphous powder separates , which is the salt in question .
It is sparingly soluble in water , and freely soluble in dilute acids .
Tricarballylate of Copper , C2 H05 ' } 0 .
This salt falls in the form of a beautiful bluish-green powder when sul[Feb .
16 , 78 phate of copper is added to a hot solution of tricarballylate of soda .
It is insoluble in water , but soluble in dilute acids .
Tricarballylate of Lead , 12 Ip0b6 }0 Pb3 This salt precipitates when an excess of acetate of lead is added to a solution of tricarballylate of soda .
It is a white powder insoluble in water , but soluble in dilute nitric acid .
The composition of the foregoing salts and ethers fully confirms the view I took of the basicity of this acid in my preliminary paper .
It is , I believe , at present the sole representative of its class .
It will not , however , I believe , long remain so , as the process by which it has been obtained will , I have no doubt , be found to be of general application .
This acid bears the same relation to citric acid that succinic bears to malic acid : C12 I8 12 , tricarballylic acid .
C8 6 08 , succinic acid .
C12 H8 0 , citric acid .
8 H6 010 , malic acid .
That this relationship exists not only on paper , but also in the nature of the bodies themselves , is , I think , highly probable .
In order to arrive at certainty on this point , I have endeavoured , by the addition of two equivalents of oxygen , to transform tricarballylic into citric acid .
My researches in this direction have not hitherto been attended with success .

