A paper was read , " On the Errors in the Course of Vessels oc ?
casioned by local attraction , with some remarks on the recent loss of His Majesty 's ship Thetis .
" By Peter Barlow , Esq. F.R.S. , &amp;c. The author observes that the errors arising from the deviation of the compass produced by the attraction of ships , were formerly much less considerable than at present , from the comparatively small quantity of iron existing in the vessel .
The increase of this disturbing force in a modern ship of war is easily accounted for by the immense proportion of iron now employed in its construction , by the use of iron ballast and iron tanks , of iron knees , iron cables , and above all , of iron capstans , besides various other articles made of the same material , forming altogether a very large and powerful magnetic mass .
The direction and intensity of the deflecting forees thus produced , vary in different latitudes and on different sides of the equator ; being greatest in the highest latitudes , where the dip is considerable , and when the ship 's course is east or west : and in high south ?
ern latitudes , being the reverse of what it is in high northern lati ?
tudes .
In His Majesty 's ship Gloucester , which may be taken as an example , the deviation of the compass in the east and west points was found to be , in the British Channel , 9ยง 30 ' : so that after running ten miles , the vessel would be more than a mile and a half to the southward of her reckoning , and so on in proportion as the distances increased .
An error of this magnitude , occurringin a nar ?
row channel and in a dark night , were it unknown or disregarded , might lead to the most fatal consequences ; and the disaster might perhaps be erroneously ascribed to the prevalence of a powerful current , the existence of which was before unknown .
The Thetis sailed from Rio Janeiro , in December last , with a million of dollars on board , in the finest weather , directing her course to the S.E. The next day , thinking they were clear of land , they tacked , and were sailing at the rate of nine knots , when the first intimation they had of being near land , was the striking of the jib-boom against a high perpendicular cliff , which broke the bowsprit short off , and sent all three masts over the side ; thus in a mo ?
meant bringing utter destruction on this fine vessel and her valuable cargo .
The author shows that the deviation of the compass arising from the attraction of the vessel , was exactly of the kind which was likely to occasion this great mistake in the ship 's reckoning : for the distance run by the Thetis being about eighty miles , if the local attraction of the vessel had been equal to that of the Glou ?
cester , she would have passed five miles nearer to Cape Frio than her reckoning , ?
an error quite sufficient to account for the fatal catastrophe .
The author hence infers the importance of bestowing more attention than has hitherto been given to the influence of the local attraction of vessels , and to the application of the proper means of correction .

