58 Mr. K. W. Monsarrat .
Observations on the 0 ' C. , which is a number very close to that usually given in tables of electrical specific resistance.* Matthiessen and Vogt state in this paper , that they hope to be able to prepare pure nickel electrolytically , and obtain a value for its electrical resistivity .
I have been unable to discover , however , that they ever carried out their intention .
At any rate , the number which they give for the electrical volume resistivity of this nickel of the purity of which they evidently had suspicions , has been accepted for the last thirty-six years as the true value .
" Observations on the Morphology of the Blastomycetes found in Carcinomata .
" By Keith W. Monsarrat , M.B. , F.R.C.S.E. Communicated by Professor Sherrington , F.R.S. Received November 22 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1899 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory of University College , Liverpool .
) ( Abstract .
) This research was undertaken in order to confirm if possible the observations of Sanfelice , Roncali , and others , on the presence of organisms of the order Blastomycetes in carcinomata , and to study the morphology of the same .
The observations have been arranged under four headings :\#151 ; 1 .
Isolation by culture .
2 .
Staining reactions .
3 .
Histology .
4 .
Tissue reactions following inoculation .
1 .
Isolation by Culture.\#151 ; The tumours examined were carcinomata of the breast and uterus ; incisions were made with a sterilised knife and scrapings from the edges of these inseminated on to media .
Many kinds of media were tried , but a result was obtained only on glucose agar .
Wort agar and wort bouillon were subsequently used for subcultures ; on both the organism grows readily aerobically at 37 C. Sub-cultures on neutral gelatine appear as pale yellow slow-growing colonies without liquefaction of the medium .
On neutral agar the colonies have a more marked yellow tinge ; they do not appear until * The numerical values of the specific resistance of nickel given in various tables by different authors are not quite identical , and yet all so far found are stated to be derived from Matthiessen 's experiments .
Thus , Everett ( ' C.G.S. System of Units , ' 1891 ed. ) gives 12,320 C.G.S. units at 0 ' C. as the value .
Landolt and Bornstein give one value equivalent to 12,757 at 0 ' C. from the ratio of conductivity of nickel to that of mercury , and another equivalent to 12,014 at 0 ' C. , derived from the ratio of the conductivities of hard drawn silver to that of nickel .
Morphology of the Blastomycetes found in Carcinomata .
59 after four to five days ' incubation at 37 ' C. There is no growth on acidified gelatine , agar , or bouillon .
Neutral bouillon yields a scanty growth after four days ' incubation at 37 ' C. ; no scum is formed .
On wort bouillon and wort agar the growth is plentiful after twenty-four hours ' incubation at 37 ' 0 .
On potato at the same temperature there is a characteristic dark brown growth after forty-eight hours .
The organism grows more readily anaerobically than aerobically ; the growth on potato under the former conditions is white , but turns brown when air is admitted , whereas the growth on agar is brownish-yellow , contrasting with the pure yellow colour of the aerobic growth .
These appearances on culture media agree in the main with those described by Sanfelice and Plimmer in the case of the organisms which they have severally isolated .
2 .
The staining reactions of the organism in the tissues were specially studied in order to establish if possible the real characters of the " cancer-bodies " described by many observers .
After trial of several methods , the following was decided upon as giving characteristic and distinguishing results .
Carmine is first used as a nuclear stain , either in the form of lithium carmine , alcoholic borax carmine ( when the pieces of tissue are stained in the mass ) , or acetic carmine .
The last is the only preparation which gives good results with tissue fixed in Flemming 's solution .
The sections thus stained are placed in a 1 per cent , watery solution of methyl-violet for two minutes , then in a 025 per cent , solution of picric acid , washed , dried with filter-paper , and decolorised in clove oil .
The methyl-violet is extracted from the plasma and nuclei , but remains in the organisms .
The method was proved to give distinctive results in sections of the growths produced by experimental inoculation of the organism isolated .
3 .
The morphological characters of the organism are as follows:\#151 ; Fresh specimens from cultures are spherical , from 4 to 10 microns in diameter , and in most cases take an aniline chromatin stain diffusely .
There is , however , a great variety in the distribution of the chromatin , it is sometimes aggregated to one pole , sometimes divided up at different parts of the cell , and in other cases it is only represented by a few isolated granules .
The capsule is delicate .
Multiplication in cultures takes place by budding .
In the primary growths produced by intraperitoneal inoculation of the organism , the latter is also in most cases spherical , possesses a delicate capsule , and multiplies by budding .
Two peculiarities are , however , to be seen : firstly , in many cases , delicate processes connect adjacent specimens of the organisms ; and , secondly , the Capsule is often thickened and forms a kind of " halo " round the central deeply staining body of the cell .
VOL. LXVI .
G 60 Morphology of the Blastomycetes found in Carcinomata .
In the nodules in lungs , liver , spleen , and kidneys , which are 1 secondary to the growths on the peritoneum , in addition to the forms already described , spore-bearing forms are found .
In these the capsule is much thickened , the chromatin of the cell breaks up irregularly , | and portions are allowed to escape through dehiscences in the capsule .
There is no regularity in the process , no simultaneous division of the cell-contents into a definite number of spores , and no simultaneous shedding of the same .
The spores are without capsule when they escape , and are irregular in contour .
They stain deeply with chromatin stains , and are finely granular .
This method of spore-formation is specially to be noted , as it is entirely unlike the methods described in the case of members of the Saccharomyces class .
4 .
Tissue Reactions.\#151 ; The animals used for inoculation were guinea-pigs , and the inoculations were made not so much for the purpose of estimating the capacity of the organism for producing cancer as for that of studying the morphological characters of the latter when in the tissues .
The results following intraperitoneal injection of 1 c.c. of a culture forty-eight hours ' old are as .
follows:\#151 ; The animals showed no symptoms of illness ; they were killed at periods from two to six weeks after the injection .
On opening the abdomen , the omentum and general peritoneal surface were found to be studded with nodules from the size of a pea to that of a pin s head , of the other organs , nodules are visible to the naked eye in the lungs , liver , spleen , and kidneys .
The primary growths on the peritoneum are composed of proliferated endothelial cells ; the organisms are present in considerable numbers , some within the cells , but most outside them .
In many of the nodules there is some attempt at the formation of a connective tissue capsule , and in others the central parts are broken down .
In the lungs , the nodules are made up of endothelial cells j in each nodule there are organisms present and usually centrally situated .
In the liver and spleen , the nodules are very similar in appearance to the primary omental growths \ the origin of the cells composing them is doubtful .
' In the kidney , where again the nodules are of endothelial origin , the cells are derived from those lining the Malpighian corpuscles and tubules .
In no case was there any alveolar arrangement of the cells or any appearance resembling the endotheliomata of man .

