Mr. Isaac Newton 's Considerations on the former Reply ; together with further Directions , how to make the Experiments controverted aright : Written to the Publisher from Cambridge , November .
13 .
1675 .
SIR , WHen you showed me Mr. Line 's second Letter , I remember I told you , that I thought an answer in writing would be insignificant , because the dispute was not about any Ratiocination , but my veracity in relating an Experiment , which he denies will succeed as it is described in my printed Letters : For this is to be decided not by discourse , but new trial of the Experiment .
What it is that imposes upon Mr. Line I cannot imagine ; but I suspect he has not cried the Experiment since he acquainted himself with my Theory , but depends upon his old notions taken up before he had any hint given to observe the figure of the coloured Image .
I shall desire him therefore , before he returns any answer , to try it once more for his satisfaction , and that according to this manner .
Let him take any Prisme , and hold it so that its Axis may be perpendicular to the Sun 's rays , and in this posture let it be placed as close as may be to the hole through which the Sun shines into a dark room , which hole may be about the bigness of a Peas .
Then let him turn the Prism slowly about its Axis , and he shall see the colours move upon the opposite wall first towards that place to which the Sun 's direct light would pass , if the Prism were taken away , and then back again .
When they are in the middle of these two contrary motions , that is , when they are nearest that place to which the Sun 's direct ray tends , there let him stop ; for then are the rays equally refracted on both sides the Prism .
In this posture of the Prism let him observe the figure of the colours , and he shall find it not round as he contends , but oblong , and so much the more oblong as the Angle of the Prism , comprehended by the refracting plains , is bigger , and the wall , on which the colours are cast , more distant from the Prism ; the colours red , yellow , green , blew , purple , succeeding in order not from one side of the figure to the other , as in Mr. Line 's conjecture , but from one end to the other ; and the length of the Figure being not parallel but tranverse to the Axis of the Prism .
After this manner I used to try the ExperiT tt2 meant meant : For I have tried it often ; sometimes to observe the circumstances of it , sometimes in order to further Experiments , and sometimes to show it to others , and in all my trials the success was the same .
But whereas Mr. Line thinks , I tried it in a cloudy day , and placed the Prism at a great distance from the hole of the window ; the Experiment will not succeed well if the day be not clear , and the Prism placed close to the hole , or so near at least , that all the Sun 's light that comes from the hole may pass through the Prism also , so as to appear in a round form if intercepted by a paper immediately after it has past the Prism .
When Mr. Line has tried this , I could wish , he would proceed a little further to try that which I called the Experimentum Crucis , seeing ( if I mis-remember not ) he denies that as well as the other .
For when he has tried them ( which by his denying them , I know he has not done yet as they should be tried )I presume he will rest satisfied .
Three or four days after you gave me a sight of Mr. Line 's second Letter , I remember I thereupon showed the first of these two Experiments to thatGentleman whom you found with me , when yougave me that visit , and whilst I was showing it to him , A.H. ( a member of the R.Society ) came in and I showed it to him also .
And you may remember , that R.H. two or three years ago in a Letter read before there .Society , and transmitted to me , gave testimony not only to the Experiments questioned by Mr. Line , but to all those set down in my first Letter about Colours , as having tried them himself ; and when you read Mr. Line 's Letter at a meeting of the said Society , and was pleased to do me the favour to propound the Experiment to be tried in their presence , R.H. spake of it to them as a thing not to be questioned .
But if it have not yet been tried before them , and any of them , upon Mr. Line 's confidence , doubt of it , I promise when I shall have the happiness to be at any more of their Assemblies , upon the least hint , to shew 'em the trial of it ; and I hope , I shall not be troublesome , because it may be tried ( though not so perfectly ) even without darkning a room , or the expense of any more time than half a quarter of an hour ; although , if Mr. Line persist in his denial of it , I could wish it might be tried sooner there , than I shall have an opportunity to be among them .
An Extract of another Letter of Mr. Newton , written to the Publisher the 10th of January 167 5/ 6 , relating to the same Argument .
BY Mr. Gascoin 's Letter * one might suspect , that Mr. Linus tried the Experiment some other way than I did ; and therefore I shall expect , till his friends have tried it according to my late Directions .
In which trial it may possibly be a further guidance to them , to acquaint them , that the Prism casts from it several Images : One is , that Oblong one of Colours which I mean ; and this is made by two Refractions only .
Another there is , made by two Refractions and an intervening Reflexion ; and this is Round and Colourless , if the Angles of the Prism be exactly equal ; but if the Angles at the Reflecting base be not equal , it will be coloured , and that so much the more , by how much unequaller the Angles are , but yet not much unround , unless the angles be very unequal .
A third Image there is , made by one single Reflexion , and this is always round and colourless .
The only danger is in mistaking the second for the first .
But they are distinguishable not only by the Length and Lively colors of the first , but by it 's different Motion too : For , whilst the Prism is turned continually the same way about it 's axis , the second and third move swiftly , and go always on the same way till they disappear ; but the first moves flow , and grows continually slower till it be frationary , and then turns back again , and goes back faster and faster , till it vanish in the place where it began to appear .
* This Letter was written to the Publisher , Decemb. 15 .
1675 .
from Liege , where Mr.~ , having been a Scholar of Mr. Linus , now deceased , resides .
In it are contained these words , to which Mr. Newton , to whom it was communicated , seems here to have respect ; viz. Mr. Linus tried the Experiment again and again , and called divers on purpose to see it , nor ever made difficulty to show it to any one , who either by chance came to his chamber as he was doing it , or showed the least desire to see the same .
So that , for point of Experience , Mr. Newton cannot be more confident on his side , than we are here on the other ; who are fully persuaded , that , unless the diversity of placing the Prism , or the bigness , of the Hole , or some other such circumstance , be the cause of the difference ~ them , Mr. Newton 's Experiment will hardly stand .
If without darkning their Room they hold the Prism at their window in the Sun 's open Light , in such a posture that it 's axis be perpendicular to the Sun-beams , and then turn it about its axis , they cannot miss of seeing the first Image ; which having found , they may double up a paper once or twice , and make a round hole in the middle of it about 1/ 2 or 3/ 4 of an inch broad , and hold the paper immediately before the Prism , that the Sun may shine on the Prism through that hole ; and the Prism being stayed , and held steady in that posture which makes the Image Stationary ; if the Image then fall directly on an opposite wall , or on a sheet of paper placed at the wall , suppose 15 or 20 foot from the Prism , or further off ; they will see the Image in such an Oblong figure as I have described , with the Red at one end , the Violet at the other , and a Bluish green in the middle : And if they obscure their Room , as much as they can , by drawing curtains or otherwise , it will make the Colours the more conspicuous .
This direction I have set down , that no body , into whose hands a Prism shall happen , may find difficulty or trouble in trying it .
But when Mr. Linus 's friends have tried it thus , they may proceed to repeat it in a dark Room with a less hole made in theirwindow shut .
And then I shall desire , that they will send you a full and clear description , How they tried it , expressing the length , breadth and angles of the Prism ; its position to the Incident rays and to the window shut ; the bigness of the hole in the window shut through which the Sun shined on the Prism ; what side of the Prism the Sun shined on ; and at what side the light came out of it again ; the distance of the Prism from the opposite paper or wall on which the Refracted light was cast perpendicularly ; and the length , breadth , and figure of the space there illuminated by that light , and the scituation of each colour within that figure .
And , if they please to illustrate their description with a Scheme or two , it will make the business plainer .
By this means , if there be any difference in our way of experimenting , I shall be the better enabled to discern it , and give them notice , where the failure is , and how to rectify it .
I should be glad too , if they would favour me with a description of the Experiment , as it hath been hitherto tried by Mr. Linus , that I may have an opportunity to consider , what there is in that which makes against me .
So far Mr. Newton ; which was thought fit to make public with the rest , that so the Curious every where , who have a mind to try the Experiment , may find the fuller directions for their trial .

