1881-1 Action of an Intermittent Beam III .
" Action of an Intermittent Beam of Radiant Heat upon Gaseous Matter .
" By John Tyndall , F.R.S. Received January 3 , 1881 .
j The Royal Society has already done me the honour of publishing a long series of memoirs on the interaction of radiant heat and gaseous matter .
These memoirs did not escape criticism .
Distinguished men , \#166 ; among whom the late Professor Magnus and the late Professor Buff may be more specially mentioned , examined my experiments , and arrived at results different from mine .
Living workers of merit have also taken up the question : the latest of whom , * while justly recognising the extreme difficulty of the subject , and while verifying , so far as their experiments reach , what I had published regarding dry gases , find me ta have fallen into what they consider grave errors in my treatment of vapours .
Hone of these investigators appear to me to have realised the true strength of my position in its relation to the objects I had in view .
Occupied for the most part with details , they have failed to recognise the stringency of my v ?
ork as a whole , and have not taken into account the independent support rendered by the various parts of the investigation to each other .
They thus ignore verifications , both general and special , which are to me of conclusive force .
Nevertheless , thinking it due to them and me to submit the questions at issue to a fresh examination , I resumed , some time ago , the threads of the inquiry .
The results shall , in due time , be communicated to the Royal Society ; but , meanwhile , I would ask permission to bring to the notice of the Fellows a novel mode of testing the relations of radiant heat to gaseous matter , whereby singularly instructive effects have been obtained .
After working for some time with the thermopile and galvanometer , it occurred to me several weeks ago that the results thus obtained might be checked by a more direct and simple form of experiment .
Placing the gases and vapours in diathermanous bulbs , and exposing the bulbs to the action of radiant heat , the heat absorbed by different gases and vapours ought , I considered , to be rendered evident by ordinary expansion .
I devised an apparatus with a view of testing this idea .
But , at this point , and before my proposed gas-thermometer \#166 ; was constructed , I became acquainted with the ingenious and original experiments of Mr. Graham Bell , wherein musical sounds , are obtained through the action of an intermittent beam of light upon solid bodies .
* MM .
Lecher and Pemter , " Philosophical Magazine , " January , 1881 .
" Sitzb tier K. Akad .
der Wissensch .
in Wien , " July , 1880 .
308 Prof. Tyndall .
Action of an Intermittent Beam [ Jan. 13 From the first , I entertained the opinion that these singular sounds were caused by rapid changes of temperature , producing corresponding changes of shape and volume in the bodies impinged upon by the beam .
But if this be the case , and if gases and vapours really absorb radiant heat , they ought to produce sounds more intense than those obtainable from solids .
I pictured every stroke of the beam responded to by a sudden expansion of the absorbent gas , and concluded that when the pulses thus excited followed each other with sufficient rapidity , a musical note must be the result .
It seemed plain , moreover , that by this new method many of my previous results might be brought to an independent test .
Highly diathermanous bodies , I reasoned , would produce faint sounds , while highly athermanous bodies would produce loud sounds ; the strength of the sound being , | in a sense , a measure of the absorption .
The first experiment made , with a view of testing this idea , was executed in the presence of Mr. I Graham Bell ; * and the result was in exact accordance with what 11 had foreseen .
The inquiry has been recently extended so as to embrace most of the gases and vapours employed in my former researches .
My first source of rays was a Siemens ' lamp connected with a dynamo-machine , worked by a gas engine .
A glass lens was used to concentrate the rays , and afterwards two lenses .
By the first the rays were rendered parallel , while the second caused them to converge to a point about 7 inches distant from the lens .
A circle of sheet zinc provided first with radial slits and afterwards with teeth and interspaces , cut through it , was mounted vertically on a whirling table , and caused to rotate rapidly across the beam near the focus .
The passage of the slits produced the desired intermittence , i " while a flask containing the gas or vapour to be examined received the shocks of the beam immediately behind the rotating disk .
From the flask a tube of india-rubber , ending in a tapering one of ivory or box wood , led to the ear , which was thus rendered keenly sensitive to any sound generated within the flask .
Compared with the beautiful apparatus of Mr. Graham Bell , the arrangement here described is rude ; it is , however , very effective .
* On the 29th November : see " Journal of the Society of Telegraph Engineers , " '-December 8 , 1880 .
t When the disk rotates the individual slits disappear , forming a hazy zone through which objects are visible .
Throwing by the clean hand , or better still by white paper , the beam back upon the disk , it appears to stand still , the slits forming so many dark rectangles .
The reason is obvious , but the experiment is a very beautiful one .
I may add that when I stand with open eyes in the flashing beam , at a definite velocity of recurrence , subjective colours of extraordinary gorgeousness are produced .
With slower or quicker rates of rotation the colours disappear .
The flashes also produce a giddiness sometimes intense enough to cause me to grasp the table to keep myself erect .
1881.1 'f Radiant Heat upon Gaseous Matter .
309 With this arrangement the number of sounding gases and vapours was rapidly increased .
But I was soon made aware that the glass lenses withdrew from the beam its most effectual rays .
The silvered mirrors employed in my previous researches were therefore invoked ; \#166 ; amd with them , acting sometimes singly and sometimes as conjugate mirrors , the curious and striking results which I have now the honour ijjo submit to the Society were obtained .
Sulphuric ether , formic ether , and acetic ether being placed in bulbous flasks , * their vapours were soon diffused in the air above the liquid .
On placing these flasks , whose bottoms only were covered by the liquid , behind the rotating disk , so that the intermittent beam passed through the vapour , loud musical tones were in each case obtained .
These are known to be the most highly absorbent vapours which my experiments revealed .
Chloroform and bisulphide of carbon , on the other hand , are known to be the least absorbent , the latter standing near the head of diathermanous vapours .
The sounds extracted from these two substances were usually weak and sometimes barely audible , being more feeble with the bisulphide than with the chloroform .
With regard to the vapours of amylene , iodide of ethyl , iodide of methyl and benzol , other things being equal , their power to produce musical tones appeared to be accurately expressed by their ability to absorb radiant heat .
r It is the vapour , and not the liquid , that is effective in producing the sounds .
Taking , for example , the bottles in which my volatile substances are habitually kept , I permitted the intermittent beam to impinge upon the liquid in each of them .
Ho sound was in any case produced , while the moment the vapour-laden space above an active liquid was traversed by the beam , musical tones made themselves audible .
A rocksalt cell filled entirely with a volatile liquid , and subjected to the intermittent beam , produced no sound .
This cell was circular and closed at the top .
Once , while operating with a highly ather-manous substance , a distinct musical note was heard .
On examining the cell , however , a small bubble was found at its top .
The bubble was less than a quarter of an inch in diameter , but still sufficient to produce audible sounds .
When the cell was completely filled , the sounds disappeared .
It is hardly necessary to state that the pitch of the note obtained in each case is determined by the velocity of rotation .
It is the same as that produced by blowing against the rotating disk and allowing its slits to act like the perforations of a syren .
* I hare employed flasks measuring from 8 inches to f ths of an inch in diameter .
The smallest flask , which had a stem with a bore of about \#163 ; th of an inch in diameter , yielded better effects than the largest .
Flasks from 2 to 3 inches in diameter yield good results .
Ordinary test-tubes also answer well .
310 Prof. Tyndall .
Action of an Intermittent Beam [ Jan. 13 Thus , as regards vapours , prevision has been justified by experi ment .
I now turn to gases .
A small flask , after having been heated m the spirit-lamp so as to detach all moisture from its sides , was care* fully filled with dried air .
Placed in the intermittent beam it yielded mus'cal note , but so feeble as to he heard only with attention .
Dry-oxygen and hydrogen behaved like dry air .
This agrees with my former experiments , which assigned a hardly sensible absorption to these gases .
When the dry air was displaced by carbonic acid , the sound was far louder than that obtained from any of the elementary gases .
When the carbonic acid was displaced by nitrons oxide , the sound was much more forcible still , and when the nitrons oxide was displaced by olefiant gas , it gave birth to a musical note which , when the beam was in good condition , and the bulb well chosen , seemed as loud as that of an ordinary organ pipe* We have here the exact order in which my former experiments proved these gases to stand as absorbers of radiant heat .
The amount of the absorption and the intensity of the sound go hand in hand .
A soap bubble blown with nitrous oxide , or olefiant gas , and exposed to the intermittent beam , produced no sound , no matter how its size might be varied .
The pulses obviously expended themselves upon the flexible envelope , which transferred them to the air outside .
But a film thus impressionable to impulses on its interior surface must prove at least equally sensible to Sonorous waves impinging on it from without .
Hence , I inferred , the eminent suitability of soap bubbles for sound lenses .
Placing a " sensitive flame " some feet distant from a small sounding reed , the pressure was so arranged that the flame burnt tranquilly .
A bubble of nitrous oxide ( sp. gr. 1-527 ) was then blown , and placed in front of the reed .
The flame immediately fell and roared , and continued agitated as " long as the lens remained in position .
A pendulous motion could be imparted to the bubble , so as to cause it to pass to and fro in front of the reed .
The flame responded , by alternately roaring and becoming tranquil , ' to every swing of the bubble .
Nitrous oxide is far better for this experiment than carbonic acid , which speedily ruins its envelope .
The pressure was altered so as to throw the flame , when the reed sounded , into violent agitation .
A bubble blown with hydrogen ( sp. gr. 0*069 ) being placed in front of the reed , ^he flame was immediately stilled .
The ear answers instead of the flame .
I11 1859 I proved gaseous ammonia to be extremely impervious to radiant heat .
My interest in its deportment when subjected to this novel test was therefore great .
Placing a small quantity of liquid ammonia in one of the flasks , and warming the liquid slightly , the * With conjugate mirrors the sounds with olefiant gas are readily obtained at a distance of twenty yards from the lamp .
I hope to be able to make a candle flame effective in these experiments .
1881.1 of Radiant Heat upon Gaseous Matter .
311 intermittent beam was sent through the space above the liquid .
A loud musical note was immediately produced .
By the proper application of heat to a liquid the sounds may be always intensified .
The ordinary temperature , however , suffices in all the cases thus far referred to .
In this relation the vapour of water was that which interested me most , and as I could not hope that at ordinary temperatures it existed in sufficient amount to produce audible tones , I heated a small quantity of water in a flask almost up to its boiling-point .
Placed in the intermittent beam , I heard\#151 ; I avow with delight\#151 ; a powerful musical sound produced by the aqdeous vapour .
Small wreaths of haze , produced by the partial condensation of the vapour in the upper and cooler air of the flask , were , however , visible in this experiment ; and it was necessary to prove that this haze was not the cause of the sound .
The flask was , therefore , heated by a spirit-flame beyond the temperature of boiling water .
The closest scrutiny by a condensed beam of light then revealed no trace of cloudiness above the liquid .
From the perfectly invisible vapour , however , the musical sound issued , if anything , more forcible than before .
I placed the flask in cold water until its temperature was reduced from about 90 ' to 10 ' C. , fully expecting that the sound would vanish at this temperature ; but , notwithstanding the tenuity of the vapour , the sound extracted from it was not only distinct but loud .
Three empty flasks , filled with ordinary air , were placed in a freezing mixture for a quarter of an hour .
On being rapidly transferred to the intermittent beam , sounds much louder than those obtainable from dry air were produced .
Warming these flasks in the flame of a spirit-lamp until all visible humidity had been removed , and afterwards urging dried air through them , on being placed in the intermittent beam the sound in each case was found to have fallen almost to silence .
Sending , by means of a glass tube , a puff of breath from the lungs into a dried flask , the power of emitting sound was immediately restored . .
When , instead of breathing into a dry flask , the common air of the laboratory was urged through it , the sounds became immediately intensified .
I was by no means prepared for the extraordinary delicacy of this new method of testing the athermancy and diathermancy of gases and vapours , and it cannot be otherwise than satisfactory to me to find that particular vapour , whose alleged deportment towards radiant heat has been so strenuously denied , affirming thus audibly its true character .
After what has been stated regarding aqueous vapour , we are prepared for the fact that an exceedingly small percentage of any highly athermanous gas diffused in air suffices to exalt the sounds .
An acci312 Prof. Tyndall .
Action of an Intermittent Beam [ Jan. 13 dental observation will illustrate this point .
A flask was filled with coal-gas and held bottom upwards in the intermittent beam .
The sounds produced were of a force corresponding to the known absorptive energy of coal-gas .
The flask was then placed upright , with its mouth open upon a table , and permitted to remain there for nearly an hour .
On being restored to the beam , the sounds produced were far louder than those which could be obtained from common air.* Transferring a small flask or a test-tube from a cold place to the intermittent beam , it is sometimes found to be practically silent for a moment , after which the sounds become distinctly audible .
This I take to be due to the vaporisation by the calorific beam of the thin film of moisture adherent to the glass .
My previous experiments having satisfied me of the generality of the rule that volatile liquids and their vapours absorb the same rays , I thought it probable that the introduction of a thin layer of its liquid , even in the case of a most energetic vapour , would detach the effective rays , and thus quench the sounds .
The experiment was made , and the conclusion verified .
A layer of water , formic ether , sulphuric ether , or acetic ether , ^th of an inch in thickness , rendered the transmitted beam powerless to produce any musical sound .
These liquids being transparent to light , the efficient rays which they intercepted must have been those of obscure heat .
A layer of bisulphide of carbon about ten times the thickness of the transparent layers just referred to , and rendered opaque to light by dissolved iodine , was interposed in the path of the intermittent beam .
It produced hardly any diminution of the sounds of the more active vapours\#151 ; a further proof that it is the invisible heat rays , to which the solution of iodine is so eminently transparent , that are here effectual .
Converting one of the small flasks used in the foregoing experiments into a thermometer bulb , and filling it with various gases in succession , it was found that with those gases which yielded a feeble sound , the displacement of a thermometric column associated with the bulb was slow and feeble , while with those gases which yielded loud sounds , the displacement was prompt and forcible .
( Received January 10 , 1881 .
) Further Experiments .
Since the handing in of the foregoing note , on the 3rd of January , the experiments have been pushed forward ; augmented acquaintance with the subject serving only to confirm my estimate of its interest and importance .
* The method here described is , I doubt not , applicable to the detection of extremely small quantities of fire-damp in mines .
1881 .
] of Radiant Heat upon Gaseous Matter .
313 All the results described in my first note have been obtained in a very energetic form with a battery of sixty Grove 's cells .
On the 4th of January I chose for my source of rays a powerful lime-light , which , when sufficient care is taken to prevent the pitting of the cylinder , works with admirable steadiness and without any noise .
I also changed my mirror for one of shorter focus , which permitted a nearer approach to the source of rays .
Tested with this new reflector the stronger vapours rose remarkably in sounding power .
Improved manipulation was , I considered , sure to extract sounds from rays of much more moderate intensity than those of the limelight .
For this light , therefore , a common candle flame was substituted .
Received and thrown back by the mirror , the radiant heat of the candle produced audible tones in all the stronger vapours .
Abandoning the mirror and bringing the candle close to the rotating disk , its direct rays produced audible sounds .
A red-hot coal , taken from the fire and held close to the rotating disk , produced forcible sounds in a flask at the other side .
A red-hot poker , placed in the position previously occupied by the coal , produced strong sounds .
Maintaining the flask in position behind the rotating disk , amusing alternations of sound and silence accompanied the alternate introduction and removal of the poker .
The temperature of the iron was then lowered till its heat just ceased to be visible .
The intermittent invisible rays produced audible sounds .
The temperature was gradually lowered , being accompanied by a gradual and continuous diminution of the sound .
When it ceased to be audible the temperature of the poker was found to be below that of boiling water .
As might be expected from the foregoing , experiments , an incandescent platinum spiral , with or without the mirror , produced musical sounds .
When the battery power was reduced from ten cells to three , the sounds , though enfeebled , were still distinct .
My neglect of aqueous vapour had led me for a time astray in 1859 , but before publishing my results I had discovered my error .
On the present occasion this omnipresent substance had also to be reckoned with .
Fourteen flasks of various sizes , with their bottoms covered with a little sulphuric acid , were closed with ordinary corks and permitted to remain in the laboratory from the 23rd of December to the 4th of January .
Tested on the latter day with the intermittent beam , half of them emitted feeble sounds , but half were silent .
The sounds were undoubtedly due , not to dry air , but to traces of aqueous vapour .
An ordinary bottle , containing sulphuric acid for laboratory purposes , being connected with the ear and placed in the intermittent 2 a 2 314 Prof. Tyndall .
Action of an Intermittent Beam [ Jan. 13 beam , emitted a faint , but distinct , musical sound .
This bottle had been opened two or three times during the day , its dryness being thus vitiated by the mixture of a small quantity of common air .
A second similar bottle , in which sulphuric acid had stood uudisturbed for some days , was placed in the beam : the dry air above the liquid proved absolutely silent .
On the evening of January the 7th Professor Dewar handed me four flasks treated in the following manner .
Into one was poured a small quantity of strong sulphuric acid ; into another a small quantity of Nordhausen sulphuric acid ; in a third were placed some fragments of fused chloride of calcium ; while the fourth contained a small quantity of phosphoric anhydride .
They were closed with well fitting india-rubber stoppers , and permitted to remain undisturbed throughout the nigbt .
Tested after twelve hours , each of them emitted a feeble sound , the flask last mentioned being the strongest .
Rested again six hours later the sound had disappeared from three of the flasks , that containing the phosphoric anhydride alone remaining musical .
Breathing into a flask partially filled with sulphuric acid instantly restores the sounding power , which " continues for a considerable time .
The wetting of the interior surface of the flask with the sulphuric acid always enfeebles , arid sometimes destroys the sound .
A bulb , less than a cubic inch in volume , and containing a little water , lowered to the temperature of melting ice , produces very distinct sounds .
Warming the water in the flame of a spirit lamp , the sound becomes greatly augmented in strength .
At the boiling temperature the sound emitted by this small bulb* is of extraordinary intensity .
These results are in accord with those obtained by me nearly nineteen years ago , both in reference to air and to aqueous vapour .
They are in utter disaccord with those obtained by other experimenters , who have ascribed a high absorption to air and none to aqueous vapour .
The action of aqueous vapour being thus revealed , the necessity of thoroughly drying the flasks , when testing other substances , becomes obvious .
The following plan has been found effective .
Each flask is first heated in the flame of a spirit-lamp till every visible trace ol internal moisture has disappeared , and it is afterwards raised to a temperature of about 400 ' C. While the flask is still hot , a glass tube is introduced into it , and air freed from carbonic acid by caustic potash , and from aqueous vapour by sulphuric acid , is urged through the flask until it is cool .
Connected with the ear-tube , and exposed immediately to the intermittent beam , the attention of the ear , if I may use the * In such bulbs even bisulphide of carbon vapdur may be so nursed as to produce sounds of considerable strength .
1881.1 of Radiant Heat upon Gaseous Matter .
315 term , is converged upon the flask .
When the experiment is carefully made , dry air proves as incompetent to produce sound as to absorb radiant heat .
In 1868 , I determined the absorptions of a great number of liquids whose vapours I did not examine .
My experiments having amply proved the parallelism of liquid and vaporous absorption , I held undoubtingly twelve years ago that the vapour of cyanide of ethyl and of acetic acid would prove powerfully absorbent .
This conclusion is now easily tested .
A small quantity of either of these substances , placed in a bulb a cubic inch in volume , warmed , and exposed to the intermittent beam , emits a sound of extraordinary power .
I also tried to extract sounds from perfumes , which I had proved in 1861 to be absorbers of radiant heat .
I limit myself here to the vapours of pachouli and cassia , the former exercising a measured absorption of 30 , and the latter an absorption of 109 .
Placed in dried flasks , and slightly warmed , sounds were obtained from both these substances , but the sound of cassia was much louder than that of pachouli .
Many years ago I had proved tetrachloride of carbon to be highly diathermanous .
Its sounding power is as feeble as its absorbent power .
In relation to colliery explosions , the deportment of marsh-gas was of special interest .
Professor Dewar was good enough to furnish me with a pure sample of this gas .
The sounds produced by it , when exposed to the intermittent beam , were very powerful .
Chloride of methyl , a liquid which boils at the ordinary temperature of the air , was poured into a small flask , and permitted to displace the air within it .
Exposed to the intermittent beam , its sound was similar in power to that of marsh-gas .
The specific gravity of marsh-gas being about half that of air , it might be expected that the flask containing it , when left open and erect , would soon get rid of its contents .
This , however , is not the case .
After a considerable interval , the film of this gas clinging to the interior surface of the flask was able to produce sounds of great power .
A small quantity of liquid bromine being poured into a well-dried flask , the brown vapour rapidly diffused itself in the air above the liquid .
Placed in the intermittent beam , a somewhat forcible sound was produced .
This might seem to militate against my former experiments , which assigned a very low absorptive power to bromine vapour .
But my former experiments on this vapour were conducted with obscure heat ; whereas , in the present instance , I had to deal with the radiation from incandescent lime , whose heat is , in part , luminous .
Now the colour of the bromine vapour proves it to be an 316 Action of an Intermittent Beam of Radiant Heat .
[ Jan. 13 energetic absorber of the luminous rays ; and to them , when suddenly converted into thermometric heat in the body of the vapour , I thought the sounds might be due .
Between the flask containing the bromine and the rotating disk I therefore placed an empty glass cell : the sounds continued .
I thei filled the cell with transparent bisulphide of carbon : the sounds still continued .
For the transparent bisulphide I then substituted the same liquid saturated with dissolved iodine .
This solution cut of\#163 ; the light , while allowing the rays of heat free transmission : the sounds were immediately stilled .
Iodine vaporised by heat in a small flask , yielded a forcible sound , which was not sensibly affected by the interposition of transparent bisulphide of carbon , but which was completely quelled by the iodine solution .
It might indeed have been foreseen , that the rays transmitted by the iodine as a liquid , would also be transmitted by its vapour , and thus fail to be converted into sound.* To complete the argument:\#151 ; While the flask containing the bromine vapour was sounding in the intermittent beam , a strong solution of alum was interposed between it and the rotating disk .
There was no sensible abatement of the sounds with either bromine or iodine vapour . .
In these experiments the rays from the lime-light were converged to a point a little beyond the rotating disk .
In the next experiment they were rendered parallel by the mirror , and afterwards rendered convergent by a lens of ice .
At the focus of the ice-lens the sounds were extracted from both bromine and iodine vapour .
Sounds were also produced after the beam had been sent through the alum solution and the ice-lens conjointly .
With a very rude arrangement I have been able to hear the sounds of the more active vapours at a distance of 100 feet from the source of rays .
Several vapours other than those mentioned in this abstract have been examined , and sounds obtained from all of them .
* The vapours of all compound liquids will , I doubt not , be found sonorous in the intermittent beam .
And , as I question whether there is an absolutely diathermanous substance in nature , I think it probable that even the vapours of elementary bodies , including the elementary gases , when more strictly examined , will be found capable of producing sounds .
( Received January 14 .
) Note.\#151 ; With some of the strongest sounds , which were audible when the ear-tube was entirely withdrawn from the ear , I tried to obtain the # I intentionally use this phraseology .
1881.J Major J. Herschel .
On Gravimeters .
317 station of a soap-film .
A glass tube , blown into a shape somewhat resembling a tobacco-pipe , had its month closed by such a film , while its open stem was connected with a sounding flask .
I did not succeed in producing any visible agitation .
When the film was uniformly illuminated , or when it had become thin enough to produce iridescent colours , on holding a high-pitched tuning-fork near the open end of the stem , the whole surface of the film was immediately covered with concentric rings , having the centre of the film for their centre .
This belongs to the class of effects so vividly described by Mr. Sedley Taylor .
A fork of the pitch of the sounding gas produced no visible effect upon the film .
January 20 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; 1 .
" On Gravimeters , with , special reference to the Torsion-Gravimeter designed by the late J. Allan Broun , F.R.S. By Major J. Herschel , R.E. , F.R.S. , Deputy-Superintendent of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India .
Received October 31 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) In the course of 1878-9 some correspondence passed between Major-General Walker , the Surveyor-General of India , and the late Mr. Broun , on the subject of an instrument designed by the latter , the fate of which General Walker was desirous of learning .
Interrupted by the death of Mr. Broun , General Walker requested the Director-General of Stores for India to inquire if the instrument could be procured for the Indian Government .
It had meanwhile become the property of the Royal Society .
In order to comply with the Surveyor-General 's intention , the loan of the instrument was then obtained from this Society , and it was placed in the hands of the author of this paper to examine and report upon .
The paper consists mainly of a narrative account of the examination , and the conclusions to which he has been led regarding instruments of this class .

