98 Mr. S. J. Meltzer .
On the Distribution and [ Apr. 11 , and its substrate , preliminary to the particular chemical change brought about by the enzyme in question .
Adsorption between enzyme and substrate as affected by the presence of neutral salts is investigated and found to follow the laws of " electrical " adsorption .
The relation between the concentration of an enzyme and its activity is shown to be expressed by an exponential formula , the value of the exponent varying considerably according to circumstances .
In certain conditions it may be unity and in others the square root , but is usually between the two .
Accordingly , the view that the rate of an enzyme action at any given moment is a function of the amount of the adsorption compound of enzyme and substrate in existence at that time is to be regarded as fairly well established .
The expenses of the research were defrayed from a grant by the Government Grant Committee .
On the Distribution and Action of Soluble Substances in Frogs Deprived of their Circulatory Apparatus .
By S. J. Meltzer , New York .
( Communicated by Prof. A. R. Cushny , F.R.S. Received April 11 , \#151 ; Bead May 18 , 1911 .
) ( From the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research .
) In view of the great distributory efficiency of the cardio-vascular apparatus , no serious consideration has been given to the possibility of the existence of other modes of distribution of material in the animal body .
In the following , results of experiments will be briefly presented which give unmistakable evidence of an efficient distribution of substances in cardiectomised frogs .
In these experiments the heart was exposed , ligated , and removed , and the incision closed again .
Such a removal of the heart eliminates also the activity of the lymph vessels and the lymph hearts which empty their contents into veins .
Injections were given into the various lymph sacs of the body and into the abdominal cavity .
The results to be reported were 1911.1 Action of Soluble Substances in Frogs .
derived from experiments made with three alkaloids presenting different types : adrenaline , strychnine , and morphine .
Adrenaline.\#151 ; The dilating effect upon the pupil was the leading reaction .
An injection of 1 c.c. of adrenaline causes in cardiectomised frogs sooner or later a dilatation of the pupil .
It may appear in less than an hour ( dorsal and lateral lymph sacs ) , or after two hours ( abdominal cavity or in one leg ) .
When injected into both legs the dilatation appears much sooner .
Cutting both sciatic plexuses does not interfere with the appearance of the dilatation .
The dilatation sets in even if the animal is suspended by the head .
When injected into a lateral lymph sac the pupil of the corresponding side dilates first , to be followed 20 or 30 minutes later by a dilatation of the pupil of the other side .
When the frogs are kept moist and at a low temperature the pupils dilate after an injection of adrenaline even three or four days after cardiectomy , provided the eyes are not dried out .
In the latter case the presence of adrenaline in the orbit is easily demonstrated by placing a fresh bulbus from a normal frog with the corneal surface inside .
In this manner the pupils of several normal bulbi may become dilated by being placed in the orbit consecutively one after another .
These experiments demonstrate that adrenaline may become distributed through the entire body of a frog in the absence of the circulatory apparatus .
In the case of the migration from a lateral lymph sac to the eye of the opposite side , the adrenaline has to pass through fairly solid membranes and voluminous masses .
Diffusion alone will probably not accomplish it ; osmosis will have to assist in the process .
Gravity is not an essential factor .
Movements of the animal , or " vital " activities of cells , are not parts of this peripheral mechanism of distribution .
Strychnine.\#151 ; Frogs survive cardiectomy an hour or two , or even longer , according to the temperature at which they are kept ; spontaneous and reflex movements disappear gradually .
Strychnine exerts a definite influence upon the course of life after cardiectomy .
When about 10 mgrm .
of strychnine are injected , after a temporary insignificant depression , the animal develops in 30 or 40 minutes a definite tetanus .
These animals invariably survive the controls , kept under the same condition , by an hour and longer .
When a somewhat larger dose is administered , the first effect is a definite depression which may be accompanied by a semi-paretic state .
Suddenly the animal asserts itself , becomes hyperaesthetic , and develops a tetanus .
When a still larger dose of strychnine is injected , the essential effect is an early onset and development of an unmistakable paralysis ; the latter can no longer be overcome by the hyper-excitability which ineffectively manifests itself later .
100 Distribution and Action of Soluble Substances in Frogs .
Animals in which strychnine produced an early definite depression and a paretic state are survived by the controls .
Strychnine , then , is readily distributed in the cardiectomised animals and produces there vital phenomena similar to those seen in normal frogs , that is , tetanus and paralysis .
The paralysis in the cardiectomised frogs is central and is not due to fatigue .
The occurrence of a violent tetanus in these animals refutes conclusively the theory of Yerworn , that the paralysing action of strychnine is due to its paralysing effect upon the heart .
Morphine.\#151 ; When about 10 or 15 mgrm .
of morphine have been injected into a normal frog , no effects will be noticed until a few days later , when it may develop a tetanus .
A cardiectomised frog , however , reacts to morphine in an entirely different manner .
A small dose of morphine , 6 or 8 mgrm .
for a medium-sized frog , will bring out a tetanus in 40 or 50 minutes .
After a larger dose , the tetanus is preceded by depression and weakness .
* After a still larger dose , the effect is paralysis with very little evidence of hyperexcitation .
In short , in cardiectomised frogs morphine affects the central nervous system very rapidly , the effects being nearly like those of strychnine , that is , tetanus with smaller doses , and paralysis with larger doses .
The most plausible explanation of the surprising fact is , perhaps , this:\#151 ; The central circulation receives secretions from all organs and tissues , and conveys them rapidly to all parts of the body ; the action of each secretion , therefore , and of all substances taken up into the circulation , is modified by the neutralising effects of various secretions .
In the absence of the circulation there are no such modifying effects to interfere with the specific action of some substances .
The experiments demonstrate that in the absence of the central circulation substances may be distributed through the body by a mechanism which in some instances may act even more promptly than the cardiac mechanism .
In contradistinction to the central apparatus we may designate the distributing agent in question as a peripheral mechanism .
The path of distribution employed by this mechanism can be nothing else than the tissue spaces .
About 15 years ago we* insisted that these are more or less efficiently connected throughout the body , and present a unity , a system of their own .
A similar peripheral mechanism , working through a similar path , is probably active in the distribution of mesolymph in animals still without a cardio-vascular apparatus .
In animals possessing such an apparatus the peripheral mechanism may perhaps have the significance of a phylogenetic phenomenon .
* Adler and Meltzer , 'Jour , of Exper .
Med. , ' 1 , 512 , 1896 .
The Mechanism of Carbon Assimilation .
101 The presence of an acting peripheral mechanism in cardiectomised animals suggests the following possibilities \#166 ; 1 That the peripheral mechanism is active to some small degree in all parts of the normal body ; it is , perhaps , this mechanism which favours local action of substances .
2 .
That this mechanism may take an active share in the process of distribution in organs which are normally deficient in circulation .
The brain , for instance , has no lymphatics , and the exchange of fluid material with the blood capillaries is said to be there somewhat deficient .
3 .
That the peripheral mechanism gets into prominence in pathological conditions in which there is either a local or general deficiency of the cardio-vascuiar circulation .
The Mechanism of Carbon Assimilation : Part By Francis L. Usher and J. H. Priestley .
( Communicated by Dr. M. W. Travers , F.R.S. Received April 13 , \#151 ; Read June 1 , 1911 .
) Some experiments and conclusions recorded in two papers* published in 1906 have been subjected to criticism by several investigators , and the present paper has been written with the object of presenting some new facts bearing on the problem of carbon assimilation , which incidentally support some of those conclusions .
We also take this opportunity to restate the theory originally advanced , with such modifications as may be necessary , and to reply to a few of the more important objections to it which have been raised .
The observations recorded below are concerned only with the initial stages of the photosynthetic process , that is to say , with the formation of the primary photolytic products from carbon dioxide , and with the evolution of oxygen .
In the papers referred to some evidence was given in support of the belief that aqueous carbon dioxide is decomposed by light under the conditions obtaining in a green leaf , the immediate products of this decomposition being hydrogen peroxide and formaldehyde ; and it is easy to see that the production of these two substances would satisfactorily account both for the oxygen and the carbohydrate , which are the first visible results of the natural process .
As the evidence put forward was to some extent indirect , * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 77 , p. 369 ; and vol. 78 , p. 318 .

