Case of a Lady , born blind , who received Sight at an advanced Age by the Formation of an artificial Pupil .
By James Wardrop , Esq. F.R.S. Edinb .
Surgeon Extraordinary to the King , &amp; fc .
Communicated by the President .
Read June 15 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part III .
p. 529 .
] The lady , the subject of this communication , shortly after her birth , was perceived to be blind by a peculiar groping manner , and an operation was therefore , at six months of her age , performed on both her eyes ; in consequence of which , she lost the whole globe of one , and the pupil of the other became closed .
Her blindness , up to the fortysixth year of her age , was so complete , that she could barely distinguish in sunshine , or in brightest moonlight , which way the light came .
This , however , being sufficient to indicate a sound state of the nerve , three operations were successively performed on her eye by the author , for removing a portion of the closed iris .
They were attended with but very slight inflammation , and proved successful in imparting vision .
A journal of her progress in the art of seeing , and of her sensations , as expressed in her own words , from the first to the forty-second day after the last operation , is given in the paper before us .
She appears , up to that period , to have.acquired but very imperfectly , if at all , the power of directing her eye to any given object ; catching it only by repeated trials , and as it were searching for it ; nor was she at that time yet capable of rightly appreciating the distances of objects .
Colours , however , forms , and relative situations , in angular positions , were distinguished much earlier ; the former immediately , the latter after very short practice .
She appeared equally delighted and bewildered by her new sense ; pleased with gay colours and sparkling objects , but most profoundly and permanently affected by the grand features of nature , the clear blue sky , the fields and trees .
The author regards this case as instrucltive in many points , especially in a physiological one , as showing the possibility of preserving nervous sensibility unimpaired , during so very long a period of complete inaction .

