The Refractive Indices of the .
rhat may be attributed to the destruction by the soda of the ice-molecules present in the water .
In the formula which represents the influence of temperature on the density of water and aqueous solutions of soda , the coefficient of vanishes when a concentration of 12 per cent. NaOH is reached , whilst the coefficient of t-2 vanishes at 42 per cent. NaOH ; at the latter concentration there is a simple linear relationship between density and temperature .
( 7 ) The molecular volume of sodium hydroxide in dilute aqueous solution has a large negative value , a litre of water dissolving 140 grammes of sodium hydroxide at 0 ' , 100 grammes at 18 ' , or 60 grammes at 50 ' , without increasing in volume .
It is noteworthy that the molecular volume does not increase continuously as the temperature rises , but reaches a maximum value at about 70 ' C. In a 50-per-cent , solution , however , the temperature has little effect on the molecular volume , the extreme variation being only about 10 per cent. " The Refractive Indices of the Elements .
" By Clive Cuthbertson .
Communicated by Professor F. T. Trouton , F.R.S. Received October 18 , \#151 ; Read November 24 , 1904 .
In a letter addressed to 'Nature , ' in October , 1902 , attention was drawn to the fact that the refractivities of the five inert gases of the atmosphere , He , No , A , Kr , and X , as determined by Ramsay and Travers , were , within narrow limits of accuracy , in the proportion of 1 , 2 , 8 , 12 and 20 ; or , more simply , of 2 , 3 , and 5 .
In a second letter it was shown that the refractivities of the halogens , Cl , Br , and I , stand also in the relation of 2 , 3 , and 5 to the same degree of accuracy ; but it was pointed out that the figures for P , As , and S , as measured by M. Le Roux in 1861 , did not show any similar relation ; and it was observed that a redetermination of them would be interesting .
With a Jamin 's refractometer , adapted for use with high temperatures , results have now been obtained for Hg , P , and S , which differ widely from those of M. Le Roux .
The index of mercury , calculated for a molecule containing two atoms , is placed at 1'001857 , a number which agrees closely with the value given by the refractive equivalent of Gladstone .
The index of P2 is found to be 1'001197 and Pt \#151 ; Po + at + 2 + ( Abstract .
) VOL. LXXIV .
estimated that the margin of error does not z 284 The Refractive Indices of the Elements .
exceed 1J per cent. Comparing these values for P2 and S2 with those of N2 and 02 , it is shown that the simple relations found in the case oi the inert gases and the halogens also hold in the case of nitrogen and phosphorus , oxygen and sulphur ; and that an atom of phosphorus retards light four times as much as an atom of nitrogen , an atom oi sulphur four times as much as an atom of oxygen .
Efforts have also been made to measure the index of fluorine in the gaseous state , but , owing to the experimental difficulties , success has not yet been attained .
It appears then , that , out of fourteen elements whose index of refraction has been measured in the gaseous state , twelve conform to the rule that in each chemical group the refractivities of the elemental are in the ratios of small integers .
The other two , Hg and H , have no allied elements with which they can be compared .
It is pointed out that N , O , and No are each followed , in their respective families , by an element whose refractivity is four times as great , and that , consequently , there are reasons for believing that the elements composing the series N , O , F , and No , and P , S , Cl , and A are , in some sense , homologous .
Comparing the refractivities of the latter series we see that the power to retard light appears to be closely connected with the valency , increasing as it increases , in spite of the decrease in atomic weight , as shown in the following table:\#151 ; Element .
T\gt ; .
S. Cl. ' A ?
Atomic weight ... ... 31 32 35*5 40 Refractivity ... ... .
299x4 275x4 192x4 141 x4 The series No , O , N , show the same relation , and it is probable that the refractivity of C is even higher than that of N. The refractivity of B , estimated from BCI3 and BBrg , is certainly very great ; but whether it exceeds that of C there is not sufficient .evidence to determine .

