XXVI .
An Examen of the Chalybeat , or SpaWaters , called by the Germans Acid or SowreBrunns , or Fountains ; but proved to be of a contrary Nature , that is , Alkali 's .
By Dr. Fred .
Slare , Fellow of the Coll. of Physicians and Royal Society .
I Have , for many Years past , had more than a bare Suspicion , that Physicians and Learned Persons had imposed upon themselves and others Erroneous Notions about the Nature and Properties of those Mineral Waters , which are of the Chalybeat or Iron Species .
Germany abounds much with these Waters , and they bestow one general Name upon them , and call them Sour Brunns , that is , sower Wells or Springs of Water .
The Learned Germans , when they name them , or write of them , do call them Acidulae , ex. Gr .
Spadenses , Swalbaccenses vel Pyromontanae , &amp;c. Henricus ab Heers agrees with Vitruvius , Fallopius , and the Sagacious Helmont , and other Men of great Fame , in justifying the Acidity of the several sorts of Spa and Chalibeat Waters ; but , not being satisfied with their Reasons , assigns others ; and after a tedious and obscure Harangue , concludes , That they owe their Birth and great Virtues to Vitriol and Sulphur .
He observes , that Vitriol and Sulphur are found in the Glebe or Earth , from whence these Waters do spring ; but yet does not give us one Proof or Experiment of his having found any real Vitriol , or true Sulphur , or any Acidity in these Waters ; but fills his Book with Imaginations , and Quotations , exposing other Mens Ignorance .
Dr. Jordis , a Fellow of the Royal Society , with whom I kept a Correspondence for above thirty Years past , practised Physic at Francford , and often at Swalbac in Summer-time : I desired him to examine those Waters , and give me an account of the Contents of that SowrBrunn or Acidula ( so much celebrated for its Virtues , and Concourse of Persons of the greatest Quality .
) He gave me an Account of some Ocres , or Ferrugineous Parts , which he calcined and tortured in the Fire , to make them confess their Sulphur Original ; but in all his Experiments did not satisfy me that the Water held one Drop of an Acid by Distillation , &amp;c. That which gave me the first Suspicion , that the Chalybeat Waters did not contain any rough , or Vitriolic , or Acid Salts in them , proceeded from an accidental Use of a strong Iron Water , in which I dissolved Soap , and found it lather and wash my Hands well , and then I used a Wash-ball and shaved with it ; and tried several other Waters of this sort , which did the same , and much better than some Pump-Waters .
I. I consulted my Palate , and tried whether I could discover any Sharpness or Acidity in our English SteelWaters at Tunbridge , at Black-Boy in the Parish of Franfield in Sussex , Hampsted , Sunning hill in Berkshire , &amp;c. but I was so far from discovering any such Thing , that these Waters seemed rather to leave a sweetish Flavour or farewell behind : Thus many Alkaly Salts , if nicely examined ( of the fixed kind ) have affected my Taste .
II .
I made Experiments with several sorts of such Spirits as are apt to ferment with Acids ; such as Spirit of Hart's-born , of Sal Armoniac , &amp;c. but these made no Ferment , nor any Motion or Change in these Waters .
III .
I considered the Diseases in Human Bodies , which these Waters were prescribed , by Physicians , to cure ; that they were often such as proceeded from Sharp , Acid , or Acrimonious Causes , as Cardialgiae or Heartburnings , sower Vomitings , Corrosive Diarrhaea 's , Colicks from Scurvies and Stranguries ; and that for these Distempers sweetning and Alkalisate Remedies are made use of .
IV .
I consider these Waters as containing in them the Properties of Iron ; and I find by experience , that it is most opposite to Acids , being one of their great Correctors , and therefore rather to be esteemed an Alkali .
1 .
Take some filings of Iron , perhaps a Dram , and pour on them about an Ounce of the milder Acids , such as Vinegar , Verjuice , or the Juice of Lemons , and it will destroy the sharpness of these Juices : Or if you pour on these filings Mineral Acids , as the very corrosive Spirit of Nitre , or of Salt , or what is called Oil of Vitriol , they will immediately lose their Acidity , be disarmed of their sharp Points , and by Evaporation give a Salt that will taste sweetish , and is by Chymists called Saccharum Martis , if duly prepared ; which is safely given inwardly , and is esteemed a good altering Medicine .
2 .
Steel beaten to a fine Powder is , without any farther Preparation , given inwardly with great Success for Stomachic Diseases , as in the Green-Sickness , Hypochondriac and various other Acid and Acrimonious Disaffections .
V. I considered Milk to be a very proper and obvious Subject to bring this Controversy to a plain and unquestionable decision .
I made this Experiment with all possible exactness : I first proved the Chalybeat Waters , more particularly the Spaw-Waters , by trying whether they tinged with Galls .
These being very good , I put part of the Waters to cold Milk ; some I only made lukewarm , and some I boiled together , in equal proportions : But they were so far from affording any Curd or Coagulation , that they continued several Days without being sour .
Since Mineral Waters , especially those that are Chalybeat , are of such important use in Physic , and have gained amongst us so just a Reputation for their excellent Virtues , and are the greatest refuge in very potent and obstinate Diseases ; this has made me judge it a work not unacceptable to Virtuoso 's , especially those of the faculty of Physic , to have this Medicine fairly examined , its genuine Properties asserted , and what was called an Acid to be demonstrated an Alkali .
Is it not a sort of Justice due to the World , that the Germans , who sent us over these Waters , with this false Character of Sour Waters , should banish this misguiding Term from their Spa 's ?
It is from this mistake , that their Physicians do prohibit the use of all manner of Lacticinia , as if they were as noxious as deadly Poisons , whilst they are in a course of their Medicinal Waters .
Since this prejudice has prevailed very much amongst most of our Water Drinkers in England , I do attest that I have frequently advised , in some Cases , Milk to be given daily in the Evening , thro ' a whole course of Steel-Waters , with good Effect : Nay , I do affirm , that some others could not bear the Waters without having a third part of Milk or more mixed with 'em , and have continued 'em so for many Weeks with good advantage : Nor do I find the least reason to prohibit the use of Milk in a course of Bath Waters , having been here above a Year and half , making the best Scrutiny I can into the Properties , Virtues , and Vices ( if they have any ) of these Waters : But of these Waters I may probably give some Account hereafter .
VI .
Since our Experiments discover , that those Things which are of a sweetning Alkalisate Nature , do so very well agree with these Mineral Waters , it will appear by the following Experiment that Acids do very much disagree .
1 .
I put but one drop of Oil of Vitriol to a large Glass full of strong Spa-Waters , which before the addition of this Acid did give a deep purple to the Solution of Galls ; but now would not give the least Tincture , tho ' I put in four times as much of the Galls .
From hence I conclude , that the Virtues of the Chalybeat Ingredients , which I take to be the Life and Soul of these Waters , were so far bound up or destroyed as to have lost their Cordial or corroborating Faculty ; and that the Bile or Gall in the Humane Bowels could not be able to separate the Chalybeat ( which are the only Medical ) Particles , and mix them with the Chyle , in order to answer any End in Physic .
Let this be a caution to those that design to make these Waters pass better by Urine , that they do not make use of any Acids ; it being a common Practice to use Spirit of Vitriol , Spiritus Nitri dulcis , &amp;c. as a Diuretic : Unless it should so happen that they have a design to take off , and divest them of their warm cordial or altering Power , and so to bring them near to common Water ; which I must confess we are forced to do , especially in the use of Bath Waters , in some hot Inflammatory Cases .
2 .
I shall conclude with one short Experiment in favour of our Alkalis ; That if you put any Alkali Salt , volatile or fixed , such as Volatile Salt of Hartshorn , or of Sal Armoniac , or fixed Salt of Tartar , of Wormwood , or any other true Alkali , you will then destroy the above-nam 'd Acid Spirit , recover the virtue of the Waters , and dispose them to give their Tincture as they used to do in their Natural State .

