A paper was read , entitled " On the Theory of the Perturbations of the Planets .
" By James Ivory , Esq. A.M. F.R.S. , Instit .
Reg. Sc. Paris .
, &amp; Reg. Sc. Gotting .
, Corresp .
The methods hitherto employed by mathematicians for determining the variations which the elements of the orbit of a planet undergo in consequence of perturbation , and for expressing these variations analytically in the manner best adapted for computation , are found to depend upon a theory in mechanics , of considerable intricacy , known by the name of the Variation of the Arbitrary Constants .
In seeking the means for abridging the severe labour of the calculations , we must separate the general principles on which they are founded from the analytical processes by which they are carried into effect ; and in some important problems great advantage is obtained by adapting the investigation to the particular circumstance of the case , and attending solely to the principles of the method in deducing the solution .
The author suggests the possibility of simplifying physical astronomy by calling in the aid of only the usual principles of Dynamics , and by setting aside every formula or equation not absolutely necessary for arriving at the final results .
The present paper contains a complete determination of the variable elements of the elliptic orbit of a disturbed planet , deduced from three differential equations , that follow readily from the mechanical conditions of the problem .
In applying these equations the author observes , the procedure is the same whether a planet is ?
urged by the sole action of the constant force of the sun , or is besides disturbed by the attraction of other bodies revolving round the luminary ; the only difference being that , in the first case , the elements of the orbit are all constant , whereas in the other case they are all variable .
The success of the method followed by the author is derived from a new differential equation between the time and the area described by the planet in its momentary plane , which greatly shortens the investigation by rendering it unnecessary to consider the projection of the orbit .
But the solution given in the present paper , although it makes no reference to the analytical formuhe of the theory of the Variations of the Arbitrary Consiants , is no less an application of that method , and an example of its utility , and of the necessity of employing it in very complicated problems .

