]\gt ; Dr. Hopkinson on Torsional [ Dec. 11 .
has at hand , and which are obtained from the cinders of a furnace .
The cavities when thus filled are well rubbed so as to escape notice , but they may usually be detected by looking at the !
mirror obliquely .
It perhaps the presence of these bits of copper in the mirror which Ou-tseu-hing saw broken up in the 13th century , that misled him into concluding that the phenomenon of the magic mirror was produced by the inlaying of denser copper in a portion of the face exactly corresponding with the design on the back .
When the face of the mirror has been made quite smooth , an amalgam consisting , according to the Tokio makers , of half tin and mercury , with perhaps a trace of , or of Tin per cent. , Mercury 30 Lead according to the analysis of MM .
Champion and Pellet Industries de 1'Empire Chinois is rubbed over the surface with a stiff straw brush or with the hand .
The mirror is finally wiped clean with a soft kind of paper , mino-gami , " " paper from the province Mino which is considered to scratch the surface less than silk .
Leather was formerly never employed in polishing , as it would have been considered impious to pollute so holy a thing as a mirror by touching it with the skin of an animal ; for under the old feudal system in Japan , workers in skins , saddlers , and others , belonged to the Eta or pariah class .
When mirrors possessed by private people require brightening up , in consequence of the surface tarnishing , the pasto produced when razors are sharpened on a hone is usually rubbed over the face of the mirror . .
' On the Torsional remains Glass after release from Strcss By J. D.Sc .
, F.R. .
Rcceived October 4 , 1878 .
It has long been known that if a wire of metal or fibre of lass bc for a time twisted , and bc then released , it will not at once return to its initial position , but will exhibit a gradually decrcasing torsion in the direction of the impressed twist .
The subject has undergollo good deal of investigation , especially in Germany .
The best method of approximating to an expression of the facts been bo.iven by Boltzmann Akad .
der cnsch .
Wien 1874 ) .
He his heory upon the assumption that a stress acting for a sborb timo will 1878 .
] Strain in a Glass aave after it has ceased a strain which decreases in amourlt as time lapses , and that the principle of superposition is to these trains , that is to say , that we add the after-effects of stresses , hither simultaneous or successive .
Boltzmann also finds that , if be the strain at time eSultintrO from a twist lasting a very short ime time ' )where A is constant for values , but decroases when is very or very .
A yenr I made a experiments on a glass fibre showed tion Boltzmann 's law .
A this subject by Kohlrnusch ( ' ' Ann 1876 ) gested usino o ' results of these to examine Boltzmann 's law bc modified to cxpress ) .
Professor Kohlrausch 's results indicnte that in of wirc and of fibre of caoutchouc of superposition is only approximate , and that in the case of a shorb tion of tlvisting , where is less unity ; in case of a lono ' tion of twistin o uses other formulae , which prctty succcssfully cxprcss results , in p$rt no doubt to the fact thnt in nlost encl ] determination of the constants npplics to the resulIs of one tion of .
In a case likc it nppcalB to ) ) simple form involving co{t]l for only , then see in it to express of Sir W. Thomson of the Socicty the results of some the iscosity of tals , the method bein .
to the which the nlplitude o tions subsided .
One of results 11 as if kept .
for some time it ) fhnn it had been quiesccnt .
This should us from to attain great uniformity iu ncnts so conducted thosc of the present paper .
2 .
The ] fible mined w nbout20 chcs in .
Its meter , which point to as llot mcasured .
The it lposed of , soda , and lime ; in fact , No. 1 of ) " " Residual of cydcll Jar " " ] .
Trans 18 In ( 11 cases twist ) revolution .
deflection at any time was detcrmined ) position on scnlc of of a wire beforc , formed by roHection from conmirror , as in Sir W. Thomson cmd elcclcter .
The emities of the fibrc were hcld i11 of cork ; in first nttcmpts the upper not , and the upper of the f was lmed to ) fixed ; the also was to clamp .
ment was unsatisfactory , as one could not bo { hat a of V0L .
Dr. Hopkinson on Torsional [ Dec. 12 , observed after-effect not due to the fibre twisting within the and then sticking .
The difficulty was easily avoided by em- ploying two mirrors , each cemented at single point to the glass fibre itself , one just below the upper clamp , the other just above the .
The upper mirror merely served by means of a subsidiary lamp and scale to back the part of the fibre to which it was a ched to its initial position .
The motion of the lower clamp was damped by attaching to it a vane dipping into a vessel of oil .
The ure of the room when experiments were tried ranged from C. to C. , and for the present purpose may be arded as tant .
The lower or scale had forty to the inch , was distant from the glass fibre and mirror inches , excepting in , when it was ab S7 inches .
Sufficient time elapsed between the experiments to allow all of due to after-effect of torsion to disappear .
In cases the line of ] table gives time in minufcs release fi om torsion , sccond the deflection of the from its position in scale divisiollS .
xperiment I.\mdash ; The lasted 1 minute . .
1 2 5 7101725 Scale divisions . .
22 13 9 7 4 3 2 1 hxpcriment II.\mdash ; The twisting lasted 2 minutcs . .
1 2 4 6 7102040 Scalc isions . .
38 18 10 8 xperiment iste for 5 minutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 3 4 5 7 Scalc divisions . . . . . . . .
3 Scale . . . . . . . .
isted for 10 minutes .
ions CC Scalc iollS ) ] 1 7 6 criment V. miIlutcs .
, . . . . . . . . . . .
1 2 3 4 7 10 isiollS 18 1878 .
] in a Glass ) Experiment .\mdash ; Twisted for nlinutcs . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scale . . . . . . . . . . . .
10 15 30 65 90 120 589 Scale divisions .
97 34 28 It should bc menfioned that the operation of putting on the twist and of releasing each occupied about two scconds , and performed half in second before the epoch , and half ) second nfter or as nearly so as could be .
The time was { aken by ear from a clock seconds very distinctly .
3 .
The point to be scertained f theso resuIls is or not rinciple of supe ] position , assumed by Boltzmann , holds for ( orsions of the nitude h used .
If the fibre be visted for time angle X , then torsion at tinle after release will be X If now . . .
we may the effcct of one long twist in terms of scveral shorter by simply noticing , \amp ; c Apply this to the results , culatinoo exporlllent from its prcdccessor .
Let be the value of ) ( t ) , that is , the torsion at time , when free , divided by cssed t measured in unit ; we obtain the following five tables of compari son .
Results for compared with those from 1 2 3 4 / observed . . . .
077 calculated . . .
] observed . . . .
018 calculated . .
016 Rcsults for compared thosc from observed . . . .
262 ] 18 ) 110 calculated . . .
2 .
) calculated . . .
066 047 Dr. Hopkinson on [ Dec. 12 , ResuIts for compared with those from erved calculated . . . . .
3 observed . . . .
calculated . . .
for compared with t from , erved . . . .
4 ) 3 ) calculated ) , .
calculated . . .
1 , -for ) ared v from . . . .
caIculated . .
Iu e1aminin ir be ered rhat for of are much when .
for the olure nn irre in on the hich a oi erved d it ould a on the and .
The in the ciple of ition .
of the ma be up .
-ame to be the fiect - be expec t -aller 4 .
tion of a time T. .
arithms b. taken to an c-e 1878 .
] Strain in a Glass Fibre .
olotted on paper , being the ordinate and the abscissa ; if the awe be true we should find the points all lying on a straight lin the in .
] each value for they do lie on straight very nearly for moderate values of ; but if is not small these es pass above the origin .
When becomes large the points drop below the line in a curve making towards the origin .
This deviation appears to indicnte the form , a less than , but near to , unity .
If we have a fairly satisfactory formula .
, where when In the , Table the observed and calculated valllCS of are compared , taken as observedt calculated . . .
870 643 600 550 observed . . . .
497 433 S25 212 144 18 calculated . . .
493 429 320 147 42 To show the fact that decreases as increases if be assumed stant , I add a comparison when , it being then necessary to tak-e observed . . . .
470 398 358 327 276 234 calculated . . .
485 422 370 337 ) observed . . . .
188 140 ] 085 072 .
066 calculated . . .
185 125 089 067 052 041 A better result would in this case be obtained by or in the former case with .
Probably the best result would be given by A constant , and asbuming that increases with T. the formula these experiments give values of from 0017 to .
Boltzmann for a fibre , probably a quite diffcrent composition , ives numbers from which it } that 5 .
In my paper on " " Residual of the Loydcn \ldquo ; .
S. Haughton on sical Geology .
[ Dec. 12 , subject is discussed in the same manner as Boltzmann discusses thd after-effect of sion ou a fibre , and it is worth remarking that the esults of my experiments can be roughly expressed by a formula in which .
For glass No. 5 ( soft crown ) , whilst No. 7 flint it is greater ; but in the electrical experiment no sign of a definile deviation from the law of superposition was detected . .
" " Note in correction of an Error the Rcv .
Dr. Haughton 's Paper ' Notes on Physical Geology .
No. Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. xxvii , p. 447 ) .
By the Rev. SAMUEL HAUGHTON , M.D. , Professor of Geology in the University of Dublin , .
Received October 9 , 1878 .
In my paper read 20th June last , and published in the " " Journal of the Royal Socicty there is an error in p. 450 which I wish to correct .
Referring to the geometrical proof of Mr. Darwin 's theorem , I state that from cusp to cusp of the cycloidal wabble occupics days ; this is an error , as it should be S05 days , as can be shown geometriLet , be two successive positions of the line joining the axes of rotation and figure ; produce them to meet at , which will be the centre of curvature , because and normals to the cycloidal ; it is well known that , ( radius of ture ) is double ( chord of ( circle ) or double / ' ; refore the angle is double the angle ; but measures the angular velocity of the wabble , when is supposed at rest ; therefore the angular velocity of yx is only half that of the wabble , if the axis of figure were at rest .
Hence in 305 will turn only , and not

