312 Sir J , Larmor and Mr. J. S. B. Larmor .
between the incidence of successive pulses is always the same and equal to tl } .
Then the integral ( 11 ) gives place to a summation , namely , COS 0t(x \#151 ; vt ) + COS a ( x \#151 ; V { t\#151 ; ^o})+ ... +COS a(x\#151 ; ( N\#151 ; l)^o } ) cos { a. ix \#151 ; vt ) + 2 ( H \#151 ; 1 ) a^o } sin i .
\#151 ; sin \ ( avto ) The result may be regarded as a wave with a variable amplitude .
The amplitude has a maximum equal to N , when avto = clnrr , n being any integer .
Now a. \#151 ; ( 2mr)/ ( vto ) gives an infinite number of points in the spectrum .
The train of pulses has thus given rise to something like a spectral series ; the convergence frequency is , of course , away at the extreme end of the spectrum at wave-length zero .
The lines of the series are quite as sharp as the maximum of a diffraction grating with N rulings , the expressions for the variation of the intensity being exactly the same in the two cases .
Modern investigation has shown spectra to be extraordinarily complicated .
How far is it possible to introduce simplicity by ascribing different lines to the same common train of pulses , pulses delivered according to laws yet to be discovered , not necessarily at equal time intervals as in this case ?
On Protection from Lightning and the Range of Protection afforded by Lightning Rods* By Sir Joseph Larmor , F.R.S. , and J. S. B. Larmor , M.A. ( Received March 31 , \#151 ; Read May 7 , 1914 .
) The elasticity of the aether is perfect ; and a perfect vacuum is infinitely strong , so that no electric force , however great , can produce disruptive discharge through it .
The electric weakness of a rarefied gas is now known to be connected ( J. S. Townsend , J. J. Thomson ) with the long free paths of whatever ions may exist in it ; their length allows time for the ions to attain abnormally high velocities , under the acceleration produced by the forces of an electric field , before they are deflected by collisions , and thus enables them to produce more ions in geometrical progression , by shattering impact as they come into collision with the molecules of the gas .
At ordinary densities , with their short free paths , it requires much stronger fields to get up the velocities requisite to induce such an explosively increasing * Published in brief abstract in the ' Report of the British Association , ' Birmingham , September , 1913 .
On Protection from Lightning .
accumulation of ions .
In free space , away from disturbing solid walls , each gas , in fact , is recognised to have definite electric strengths corresponding mainly to the different values of its density .
In the strong fields generated by atmospheric accumulations of electricity , we can thus conceive that , owing to displacements of the charged masses by wind and their mutual attractions , the limit of strength is reached at some point of most intense force .
We can think of a small region surrounding that point as breaking down , so that positive ions are drawn away from its interior , and accumulated towards its boundary following the direction of the line of force , the conjugate negative ions accumulating on the boundary in the opposite direction .
These aggregations constitute an electric polarity of this labile region , which disturbs the surrounding field that produced them , intensifying it along the line of force ( three times for the case of a sphere ) .and reducing it in sideways directions .
Thus the disruption , which there began , will tend to spread along the line of force both forward and backward .
The electric discharge is therefore a rupture of the gas along a line , not along a , surface like rupture of a solid body due to disruptive waves or elastic overstrain ; and the line of rupture tends to spread in both directions along the line of electric force which passes through that point of maximum force at which the discharge originated .
It might be asked whether this tendency would be modified by the electric force induced kinetically by the discharge ; but that also is in the same general direction as the other part .
When it is borne in mind that discharge is due to electric rupture of the gaseous medium , which is propagated in time , the question of the direction in which a discharge strikes acquires a meaning .
The initial rupture is to be expected at a place of maximum force ; and it spreads in both directions , though with different characteristics , along the line of force .
For example , in the case of a lightning rod the discharge would start at the summit of the rod , which is the place of most intense strain , and strike away from the rod instead of towards it .
The zigzag character of many discharges also becomes more directly interpretable .
For discharge from one cloud mass to another alters the charge in each , and so alters profoundly the fields of force between them and other adjacent masses , thus inciting immediate new discharges between those bodies .
Something of this kind is perhaps indicated by the discontinuous crackle of a sharp discharge .
It is hardly necessary to mention that the duration of thunder , so far as it is not of the nature of reverberation by reflexion , is due to the longer time that the sound takes to arrive from the more distant parts of the flash , and thus gives a sort of analysis of its progress .
When once an ionised path has been opened up in the gas there will be Sir J. Larmor and Mr. J. S. B. Larmor .
a strong tendency for subsequent discharges to take place along it .
Meantime the line of ionised gases , forming the open path , will be blown into a new position by the wind ; and this may not inconceivably have something to do with the origin of the frequently photographed parallel flashes .
Such considerations , as regards the propagation of disruptive discharge , may have also to do with the establishment of the beautiful brush discharges which are propagated into the gas , and are of different types for positive and negative ions .
The branching character of a sharp negative spark suggests obstacles to the natural direction of travel along the line of force ; the positive discharge , being conditioned by different and perhaps more massive ions , will be of more sluggish type .
The nature of the gas is known to affect the exquisite patterns made by discharge along photographic plates .
Considerations like the above suggest that we may estimate the region of protection of a lightning rod , by inspection of a diagram of the modification of the field of force which is established around the rod , before discharge , owing to its influence .
We can render the problem definite by supposing that a single vertical rod'or column connected to a horizontal earth is situated in an atmospheric field of vertical electric force of uniform intensity .
A discharge striking into the modified field surrounding the structure will tend to follow the lines of force , except so far as its initial electric momentum delays that tendency ; and , to an extent to be now determined , it will be guided to the upper part of the structure instead of striking downward to the earth as it would do in the absence of that conductor .
This special form of the problem of determining a disturbed field of force has a ready solution for the case of a semi-ellipsoidal conductor { a , c ) standing on the ground ; and a rod ( of suitably varying section ) may be illustrated by the special case in which the semi-axes a and b are small , while c is large .
In fact , if the undisturbed vertical atmospheric field is F , the modified potential will be null over the ground , and also null over the ellipsoid ( a , b , c ) , provided f _ r d\ A J0(a2 + \)* + For our special case of a thin symmetrical semi-ellipsoid of height c , this gives V = \#151 ; Fz + A dX e(a2 + \)*(\amp ; 2 + X)i(c2 + \)* On Protection from Lightning .
The value of this integral , however , increases indefinitely towards its lower limit as e falls to zero , when a and b are null .
Thus as the semiellipsoid becomes thinner the value of A diminishes without limit : that is , the modification of the field of force by a very thin rod is negligible along its sides unless close to it .
A thin isolated rod thus draws the discharge hardly at all unless in the region around its summit .
Our special problem is , in fact , the same as if the earth were abolished , and we had to examine the influence of the presence of a complete ellipsoidal conductor , uncharged , on a uniform field of force , in this case parallel to its longest axis .
As the ellipsoid ( or solid of other form ) becomes very thin , the moment of the charge induced on it , depending as it does on considerations of volume , becomes negligible , the actual value for any rod depending on the form and mode of variation of the cross-section ; cf. Green 's problem of the magnetisation induced in an iron cylinder in a uniform magnetic field , treated in his Essay , and referred to in Maxwell , 'Electricity and Magnetism , ' vol. 2 , S 439 .
We are to take it , then , as a general principle , that it is the building to which the lightning rod is attached that modifies the electric field , and so draws the discharge , by virtue of its conducting materials and on account of its breadth being substantial compared with its height.* The structure protects the region around its base , by directing discharge to its own upper parts , which therefore need protection by conductors adequate to draw off this discharge to earth ; and vertical rods , joining together if need be lower down , but rising from the corners of the structure to a height which need not be more than about half its breadth , will lift up the field of concentrated electric force from the region directly above the building to the region above their summits , and thus will themselves take the discharge instead of the upper part of the structure .
It would thus appear to be the top of a building that needs protection by rods of some height studded over it , and in direct easy connection with earth .
For convenience and security of communication the rods may rise from a network spread over the roof , but the essential feature appears to be their lifting the field of intenser force to the region in which their free ends are immersed .
This mode of analysis can be illustrated more widely by the diagram annexed of the lines of force belonging to a semi-ellipsoid of finite breadth * Mr. S. G. Brown informs us that instances of damage of radiotelegraphic stations by lightning have occurred , and it has been the subject of remark that the discharge does not come down the antennae .
On the other hand , conducting stay-wires tend to transfer an antenna from the character of a pole to that of a cone : the mast of a ship may come under this case .
Sir J. Larmor and Mr. J. S. B. Larmor .
standing on the ground .
For the influence of a semi-ellipsoidal conducting structure on the field is the same as the influence of a larger confocal semi-ellipsoid on a field less intense by a factor which can be readily estimated .
In this way , by combining the same ellipsoidal field with uniform exciting fields of various intensities , we can realise a wide range of cases .
The mode in which a uniform vertical field will be fenced off from a structure by an arrangement of projecting rods may be illustrated by Plate 11 in Maxwell 's ' Electricity and Magnetism , ' vol. 1 , which represents the protection afforded by a series of parallel plates running inward from the left of the page , the lines of equal potential being the vertical curves .
The field of force is promptly annulled , being reduced to half its intensity before it penetrates within the points to a quarter of the distance between adjacent ones .
It is easy to see that a lightning rod is most effective when it lies along the lines of force .
If it is at right angles to them it is hardly effective at all .
It is commonly held that a powder magazine would be best protected if it were enclosed in a network of rods .
The horizontal rods would be of use , however , only when the electric discharge is oblique .
If we could assume that the lines of force in a storm are always vertical , a system of vertical rods would serve as well as a network .
When a discharge has once become established , by the opening up of an ionised conducting path , a lightning rod can do little to deflect its course .
What it can do , and still better a series of rods rising over the whole structure can do , is to provide the easiest and therefore most probable path for such discharge as may be attracted by the structure .
It seems open to question whether merely encasing a building in a wire network will always protect it from a disruptive discharge striking down upon it , unless the network is so fine as to approximate to a complete metallic covering ; a spread of connected metallic points some height above the building would appear to be more effective , and might even by themselves suffice to take up and guide away any likely stroke .
The considerations above set out have rested on the hypothesis that there is no discharge from the rod into the surrounding field .
But if it is sharply pointed , the very intense field set up close to the point establishes a quiet discharge of ions which , so far as they are not blown away , will form a conducting region around the point , in which the field is relieved .
The influence of the rod is then to be likened to that of a conducting globe at its summit , connected to earth by a thin wire .
Accordingly , it is of some interest to exhibit the modification which is thus imposed on a uniform On Protection from Lightning .
VOL. XC.\#151 ; A. iagram 1 .
Vertical Field of Force disturbed by Semi-ellipsoidal Diagram 2.\#151 ; Vertical Field of Force disturbed by Globe conneci Column .
to Earth .
Lord Rayleigh .
vertical field of force , F , say , by a globe of radius a with its centre at height c and earthed .
The globe acquires such a charge e as reduces its potential to zero : thus \#151 ; Yc + e/ a must vanish , so that its charge is F the potential of the field therefore becomes where r\ , r2 represent distances from the centres of the globe and its image .
If the lines of equal potential which pass underneath the globe are continued circumstances of the rod with conducting region at its summit will be roughly represented .
The diagram 1 represents a uniform field with vertical lines of force and horizontal equipotential lines overhead , as disturbed by a thin conductor of the form of a semi-ellipsoid standing on the ground ; the left-hand half of the field is drawn .
The diagram 2 represents a similar field overhead disturbed by the presence of a conducting sphere connected to earth by an infinitely thin wire .
Some Calculations in Illustration of Fourier 's Theorem .
By Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. ( Received March 24 , \#151 ; Read May 7 , 1914 .
) According to Fourier 's theorem a curve whose ordinate is arbitrary over the whole range of abscissae from x = \#151 ; oo can be compounded of harmonic curves of various wave-lengths .
If the original curve contain a discontinuity , infinitely small wave-lengths must be included , but if the discontinuity be eased off , infinitely small wave-lengths may not be necessary .
In order to illustrate this question I commenced several years ago calculations relating to a very simple case .
These I have recently resumed , and although the results include no novelty of principle they may be worth putting upon record .
The case is that where the ordinate is constant ( tt ) between the limits +1 for x and outside those limits vanishes .
In general down the length of the rod to meet those coming in from the side , the \lt ; p(x)= \gt ; \lt ; f)(v)Goa ( 1 )

