404 Candidates for Election .
[ Mar. 6 , March 6 , 1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of Candidates for election into the Society were read from the Chair , as follows:\#151 ; Allman , Professor George Johnston , LL. D. Atkinson , Professor Edmund , Ph. D. Bagot , Alan , C.E. Baird , A. W. , Major R.E. Balfour , Professor Isaac Bayley , D Sc. Baxendell , Joseph , E.R.A.S. Bell , James , F.I.C. Bid well , Shelford , M. A. Blake , Rev. Professor J. E. , M.A. Browne , Walter Raleigh , M.A. Burdett , Henry Charles , P.L.S. Buzzard , Thomas , M.D. Claudet , Frederic , F.C.S. Carpenter , Philip Herbert , D.Sc .
Colenso , William , F.L.S. Conroy , Sir John , Bart. , M.A. , F.C.S. Creak , Ettrick William , Staff Commander R.N. Cunningham , Allan Joseph Champneys , Major R.E. Curtis , Arthur Hill , D.Sc .
Forbes , Professor George , M.A. Goodeve , Professor Thomas Min-chin , M.A. Green , Professor A. H. , M.A. Hartley , Professor Walter Noel , F.R.S.E. Herschel , Professor Alexander pi Stewart , M.A. Hicks , Henry , M.D. Hicks , Professor William M. , M. A. I Hudleston , Wilfrid H. , M.A. Japp , F. R. , Ph. D. Kent , William Saville .
Laughton , John Knox , M.A. Lamb , Professor Horace , M.A. Lewis , J. R. , M.B. Lyster , George Fosbery , M.I.C.E. J MacGillivray , Paul Howard , M.A.I McKendrick , Professor John G. , | M.D. Manson , Patrick , M.D. Marshall , Professor A. Milnes , I M.D. Meldola , Raphael , F.R.A.S. Miller , Francis Bowyer , F.C.S. Milne , Professor John , F.G.S. Nobel , Alfred .
Ord , William Miller , M.D. O'Sullivan , Cornelius .
Pattison , Samuel Rowles , F.G.S. 1 Perry , Professor John .
Pritchard , Urban , M.D. Pye-Smith , Philip H. , M.D. Ransome , Arthur , M.D. Rawlinson , Sir Robert , C.B. , I M.I.C.E. Rendel , George Wightwick .
1884.1 On Magnetic Polarity and Neutrality .
Thomson , Joseph John , M.A. Tidy , Charles Meymott , M.B. Tonge , Morris , M.D. Topley , William , F.G.S. Tribe , Alfred , F.C.S. Vivian , Sir H. Hussy , Bart. Warren , Sir Charles , C.M.G. , Lieutenant-Colonel R.E. Warrington , Robert , F.C.S. Watson , Professor Morrison , M.D. | The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Magnetie Polarity and Neutrality .
" By Professor D. E. Hughes , F.R.S. Received February 23 , 1884 .
In recent papers upon the Theory of Magnetism , * I gave the opinion drawn from a long series of personal researches , that magnetism in iron and steel is entirely due to the inherent polarity of its molecules , the force of which could neither be destroyed nor augmented ; that , when we have evident magnetism , the molecules rotate \#166 ; so as to have all their similar polarities in one direction ; and that neutrality is a symmetrical arrangement or a balancing of polar forces , as in a closed circuit of mutual attractions .
The series of researches which I now present bear unmistakable testimony to the truth of these views , showing the opposite polarities which exist in an apparently neutral bar of iron ; and that it is by this means alone that external neutrality occurs in the iron cores of an electro-magnet upon the cessation of the inducing current .
The instrument used for measurementsf consists of a delicate silk fibre-suspended magnetic needle , always brought to its zero-mark by the influence of a large magnet at a distance , the angle of which gives the degree of force required to balance any magnetised body placed on the opposite side of the needle .
It can also employ electromagnetic effects by the use of two opposing coils on each side of the needle , balanced so that an electric current passing through the coils has no influence on the needle , except when a piece of iron or steel is placed inside one of the coils ; this again being balanced and measured by the large revolving magnet .
* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. " ( vol. 35 , p. 178 ) , and " Journal of the Society of Telegraph Engineers , " vol. xii , 1883 .
+ " On a Magnetic Balance , and Researches made therewith , " by Professor D. E. Hughes , " Proc. Roy .
Soc. " ( vol. 36 , p. 167 ) .
Rodwell , George F. , F.R.A.S. Roy , Prof. Charles Smart , M.D. Rucker , Professor Arthur Wil-| liam , M.A. Smith , Willoughby , fepiller , John , F.C.S. Stotherd , Richard Hugh , Colonel r r.e. Tate , Professor Ralph , F.G.S. Tenison-Woodg , Rev. Julian E. , I M.A. 2 f 2 406 Prof. D. E. Hughes .
[ Mar. 6 , Before commencing my researches npon nentrality , I felt that it was necessary to observe the curves of magnetic .
penetration , whilst i tinder the influence of its inducing cause .
It is well known , however from the researches of Gaugain , Du Moncel , and Jamin , that the magnetism does not penetrate to a very great depth with its full force , decreasing rapidly from the exterior to the interior .
Most observations have been made by means of tubes of various thickness .
-introduced into each other .
These , however , introduce an element of* error , as , in separating them , they are necessarily drawn over each other .
Jamin 's method of dissolving the exterior of a steel magnet * in diluted sulphuric acid gave results free from experimental error , but this could only be employed after the cessation of the inducing !
cause , the observations being really upon the permanent remaining magnetism .
' 9 The methods employed by myself consisted , first , in superposing !
twenty flat iron strips , ^ millim. thick , 20 centims. long , and 3 centimsJ in width .
These could be built up into a solid rod 1 centim. total !
thickness .
Each piece was carefully selected and measured for its !
magnetic capacity , so that they should all be equal in value whilst ] under the influence of an inducing force , as well as their remaining ] magnetism when the influence ceased ; the remaining magnetism being about ^ of its capacity in the size and kind of iron employed .
These strips forming a compound bar were placed in contact with : the poles of a strong permanent magnet , or they could be laid on one ] pole , the object being to polarise the lower bar only by contact , and observe the degree of penetration .
The upper strip was carefully separated whilst the remainder was left under the polarising influence .
We could thus separate each bar while under the influence without fear of reactions taking place between the separated bar and its companions .
We had thus a bar or strip , separated while under the inducing influence , and , knowing its coefficient of remaining magnetism , we could estimate its full power when under the polarising influence .
By this means the values were plotted graphically , giving curves of varying degrees , as the inducing force was changed , or the material of the strip from soft iron to hard steel .
These curves were verified by a somewhat similar method , using a separate strip whose coefficient of remaining magnetism was known , and .
drawing this over the poles of a magnet , but separated from it by different degrees of thickness of iron .
These again were verified by an electro-magnetic method , in which a series of concentric tubes divided lengthwise was employed , so as to allow separation without friction , confirming the numerous curves , obtained by the previous methods , showing that with a limited magnetising power acting upon homogeneous iron or steel , the penetration is inversely as the square of the distance from the inducing power , but 1884 .
] On Magnetic Polarity and Neutrality .
407 with high powers the exterior soon arrives at its saturation , the distant layers rise in value , and also if the bar is not homogeneous there is a consequent deformation , owing to the comparative rigidity of its molecules .
In all cases , whatever the force employed , or nature of the iron or steel , there are no reversals of polarity in the interior , but a constant diminishing curve of penetration from the outside to the centre .
This changes , however , the instant the exterior polarising force ceases , the different degrees of force between the external and internal react upon each other , producing the following results :\#151 ; Internal Waves of Opposite Polarity .
All varieties of iron and steel have a high magnetic capacity whilst under the influence of its inducing force , such as the electromagnetic coils , or strong permanent magnets , but this power in a great measure disappears on the cessation of the inducing influence , a return more or less perfect towards neutrality being the result ; remaining magnetism is therefore a partial neutrality , more perfect in soft iron , where the molecules are in a greater state of freedom , than in comparatively rigid cast steel .
Our so-called permanent magnets are simply the remains of a far higher magnetic state , and it is already in most cases half-way down on its road to neutrality .
It is absolutely necessary in a theory of magnetism that we should know the cause of neutrality , for it is really the starting point to appreciate how polarity becomes evident .
In my previous researches upon neutrality I used the induction balance , but in these I have employed more simple methods , which allow of repetition by the most simple means .
The first consists in forming compound bars of ordinary hoop-iron , millim. thick , and 30 or more centims. long , twenty or more of which could be superposed , bound together by a fine copper wire and forming a rod of any desired thickness ; they were magnetised by drawing over magnets of various powers , and the degree of approach to neutrality observed by the amount of its remaining magnetism .
Now , on carefully separating them , there were invariably found violent curves of opposing magnetism , previously held bound by the closed circuit of mutual attractions .
The second method consists in superposing the divided concentric tubes , already mentioned , bound together by a fine copper wire , and magnetising them in the electro-magnetic coils of the measuring balance ; by this means we could observe the charge or full magnetic capacity under the influence of an electric current , the remaining magnetism upon its cessation , and after taking out the tubular core , separate it , and observe the polarity of its successive internal layers .
This method is objectionable , as the slightest rubbing of one tubular Prof. D. E. Hughes .
[ Mar. 6 , surface against another may alter the true value .
The electromagnetic method is however infinitely superior when observations are made on solid bars , or tubes of different degrees of thickness , to observe the influence of depth or thickness , in producing a perfect return to neutrality after cessation of the inducing effect of the coils .
The third method was a chemical one , somewhat similar to that employed by Jamin , except that as the object was to study the curves of neutrality , the bars were of annealed steel , highly magnetised in the coils , and afterwards reduced almost to a zero , by vibrating them , or beating them gently with a wooden mallet .
We had by this means aided the molecules to follow their inclination , as they do in soft iron , for when a soft steel rod is in a state of vibration , its molecules are comparatively free ; but they rigidly retain the true curve of neutrality when not vibrated .
We are thus enabled by dissolving the exterior in various dilute acids , and by taking repeated observations , to draw graphically the waves of opposing polarities , which have produced external neutrality .
The curves obtained by the different methods are identical in form .
The simplest and most accurate method is the first , as we can choose a hard variety of iron , such as ordinary hoop-iron , and by slight vibrations , or blows with a mallet , allow the molecules sufficient freedom to form their curve before separating , and as the material is sufficiently rigid not to be influenced by mere contact , or even frictional drawings , we have on each strip a perfect record of its state , and can thus analyse the internal state of a neutral compound bar .
If we take a compound bar of the hoop-iron , and draw the lower side over the south pole of a magnet , it will be found nearly neutral , or if not sufficiently so , we can reduce it by slight blows with a mallet r suppose the united bar gives still a remaining magnetism of 18 ' on the magnetic balance , on separating the components and observing the same ends we find the lowest ( or the bar which had touched the-magnet ) 150 ' north polarity , the next may be slightly north or zero ; the rest will have varying degrees of south polarity , from 60 ' to 10 ' , the total of which exactly balances the north polarity of 150 , less 18 ' , which we already observed as the remaining magnetism .
If we do not wish to approach a perfect neutrality , we should not vibrate the rods .
In this case we may have 75 ' of remaining magnetism , and find on separating the strips , that we have on lower strip 150 ' north , and the total opposing south polarity of the interior but 75 ' south , leaving the remaining 75 ' of north polarity first observed on the compound bar unbalanced .
The mutual reactions between the magnetic molecules in a solid bar are precisely similar to those between two or more separate bars , 1884 .
] On Magnetic Polarity and Neutrality .
409 the reactions in the solid bar being more pronounced and complete than those obtained through a separation of air ; the greater the separation the less the reaction , but in no case will the law of neutrality be changed .
In homogeneous iron or steel , we have a well-defined curve , the distance of which can be calculated from observation upon the remaining magnetism , but if the interior is harder than the exterior , the inner portion will from its rigidity preserve its previous magnetism , reversing entirely the outer portions .
This occurs also in small electro-magnets where from the small number of molecules in the interior compared with the vastly greater exterior , and also all the surrounding inducing lines of magnetic force acting on the centre from all sides , the outside is completely reversed to a remarkable depth .
I have been enabled to prove this by the chemical method , employing either dilute sulphuric acid , acidulated bichromate of potass , or dilute nitric acid ( 1 pint acid to 5 water ) , the latter being far more rapid and equal in its action .
The following experiment will show rapidly the influence of the outside reversal polarity .
Let us take a soft steel wire 1 millim. diameter , 10 centims. long .
Magnetise it in a coil , or by drawing over a strong permanent magnet , so that it has perhaps a remaining magnetism of 200 ' .
If we vibrate this rod or give several blows from a mallet , we can reduce this to 25 ' ; we have now almost perfect neutrality , having only a remaining magnetism of 25 ' , which remains a constant for years if not remagnetised .
Place this rod in dilute nitric acid , and in fifteen minutes it will rise to 50 ' , or double its previous value , in one hour to 75 ' , and two or three hours to 100 ' , or four times its previous force ; the increased force of 75 ' has been rendered evident by dissolving an equal opposing polarity of 75 ' , so that we have already found 75 + 75 + 25 =175 ' , or 87 per cent , of its highest force .
This is so easily repeated with soft steels of all sizes and dimensions , that there can no longer be any doubt as to the existence of the outside reversed polarity .
The experiment is more difficult to repeat with soft iron , as from the freedom of its molecules a fresh outside reversed curve is formed anew as the exterior is dissolved , the balancing curves reproducing themselves until we have almost entirely dissolved the iron ; still with care , and iron not too soft , we can render evident all the neutral curves seen in steel.* The curves obtained by the various methods are so numerous , each requiring more space than the limits of this paper will allow , that I * Thin flat steel , such as clock-springs , saw-blades , or ribbon steel , well annealed , are most suitable for this experiment .
They may be of any width or length ; the thickness may vary between 1 and f millim. I have found that strips of 1 millim. thick give the highest result .
Prof. D. E. Hughes .
[ Mar. 6 , am forced to give roughly the general outlines , as in fig. 1 .
Suppose we take a compound bar of iron , of eleven strips , and draw it over a permanent magnet , polarising its lower side only , its neutrality may be found nearly perfect , or 15 ' of remaining north polarity at the north end ; now on carefully separating these rods and observing the same ends , we have for the lower or the side which had been magnetised , 350 ' north ; the following successively observed would give 10 ' south , 35 ' S. , 55 ' S. , 60 ' S. , 50 ' S. , 40 ' S. , 22 ' S. , 10 ' S. , 6 ' S. , 5'S .
; here all the superposed bars are opposite in polarity to the exterior 350 ' north , the total south observed being 292 , plus 30 ' south obtained from the exterior , by the coating of its lower face with the xV milim .
of iron strip already mentioned .
We are thus enabled to account for 323 ' degrees south , and 350 ' north , leaving a remaining magnetism unaccounted for of 12 ' , which was doubtless disseminated on the surface of each bar on separation .
The above curves were obtained from the same polar ( north ) end of a compound bar of iron , the south or opposite end of the bar would give reversed curves to these .
The curves are reductions to a similar force , but do not exhibit the perfection of the curves obtained on a larger scale .
No. 1 represents the typical curve of penetration of a bar of iron , whilst under the influence of an exterior polarising force , applied at A , or only at one side of a bar .
When the force is applied to the whole of the exterior surface ( as in a coil ) , A would represent the polar force on its surface , whilst B the interior .
In all cases there would be a depression at the centre ; great if the bar is thick , and comparatively small if the bar is thin .
The curve rises with the exterior polarisation force , but in no case can a reversal ensue whilst under its influence .
The instant , however , that it ceases , the higher magnetic power of the exterior layers reacts gradually and successively upon the weaker interior layers , rotating them through neutrality to a strong opposite polarity .
1884 .
] On Magnetic Polarity and Neutrality .
411 This is seen in No. 2 , which represents exactly what takes place in STo .
1 upon the cessation of the inducing influence .
We notice that ; he first portion of the exterior has rotated to south polarity , followed pie an intense north , but not of great density ; its reaction , being more violent , rapidly rotates all the interior to a south polarity , gradually weakening in intensity as the distance increases from the inducing north polarity .
The exterior , in fact , reacts upon its interior precisely as before the inducing exterior magnet reacted upon the whole .
In No. 1 the south pole of the permanent magnet produced a continuous curve of north the instant this ceased , the north of the exterior \#166 ; produced an interior south , and if these are perfectly balanced , then and then only will the bar become neutral .
When both sides of a bar are polarised at the same time , then we have two similar curves to No. 2 , as shown at No. 3 , the diminishing curves of internal opposing polarity overlapping each other ; the curve represents those obtained on bars 2 centims. in thickness .
If the inducing force is great the penetration is greater and more intense , reacting more violently , and the central depression of the opposing waves is less pronounced .
If we keep the previous force and diminish the thickness of the bar , the two central waves cross each other , and at last , as in No. 4 , we have only one wave ; this occurs with bars of but 3 millims. thickness .
We notice here that from a want of sufficient material in the centre of the iron , it is constrained to force its central wave to a far higher degree , and that the exterior now also commences to be reacted upon more violently .
Evidently the conditions are strained , and we shall see the result later .
This want of sufficient material to form the internal opposing wave of polarity is shown when we reduce the thickness of the bar to 1 millim. , the width being 3 centims. , and the length 30 or more , as in all previous cases .
Here there are no traces of an internal curve , the opposing polarity , as shown in No. 5 , being entirely on the surface .
I have shown that we may clearly perceive this curve by dissolving its exterior in dilute nitric acid , but as I employed vibrations to reduce it to neutrality , this might give rise to objections on the score of mechanical reactions .
To meet this objection several strips of magnetised steel of various forms , but all \ millim. in thickness , were reduced almost to neutrality by simply heating them to a dull red heat , allowing them to cool slowly .
These gave remarkable results , proving that the vibrations caused by heat are similar in results to mechauical vibrations , and I found that in most cases their external evident magnetism was increased 100 per cent , by an immersion of fifteen minutes , and 600 per cent , in one hour .
Interesting results can be obtained by this method , but if rapidity of chemical action is desired we must first remove the scale or oxide Prof. D. E. Hughes .
[ Mar. 6 , on the exterior by polishing with emery paper , or dissolve this first in acidulated bichromate of potass .
A perfect curve of these opposing polarities can be obtained by placing a glass vessel containing the steel and solvent in the balance itself , taking continual observations during its solution , and we may thus observe the gradual rise in force to a maximum , then its fall to zero , to an opposing polarity , completely verifying all previous observations .
Supposing the magnetised steel previous to heating gave 200 ' we should reduce it to 50 ' if heated to dull red , a bright red heat would probably reduce it to 20 ' ; we should then start from an almost perfect neutrality to find , on dissolving its exterior ( and allowing for the reversed polarity of the reversed portion ) , all its previous polarity .
Faraday remarked that the magnetic qualities of iron disappeared at yellow-red heat ( 1050 ' C. ) , reappearing gradually when cooled to red heat ( 700 ' C. ) .
I have found that if we heat the steel to yellow-red heat the whole previous structure disappears , and does not reappear on cooling .
No satisfactory explanation , as far as I am aware , has been offered relative to the disappearance of the magnetic qualities of iron and steel at certain temperatures , but noticing that its internal structure is also changed , the following hypothesis may explain the phenomenon .
Assuming that increased heat increases molecular vibration , and that molecules would oscillate to a degree dangerous for the stability of any previous structure , a moment would arrive when the oscillations were so great that all structural formations disappear ; and precisely at this instant there would be no external evidence of polarity , or magnetic quality , as the molecules would be oscillating through a range on both sides of external neutrality .
On cooling ( the previous structure having disappeared ) they would satisfy their mutual attractions by the shortest path , forming probably , if perfectly free , a closed circuit of two , grouping themselves as a double molecule ; but if a directing influence , such as a continuous current of electricity , was passed through the bar , then they would obey this influence , and in the latter case the closed magnetic circuit would be in concentric circles , as I have demonstrated in previous papers .
A similar effect is caused by mechanical vibrations .
I have already shown that we increase the internal curves by gentle blows of a mallet , thus allowing the molecules sufficient freedom to follow their path , as in the case of red heat ; but if we strike violently upon the end of the rod , the whole structure is broken down by the violent oscillations of its molecules , and the neutrality now resembles exactly that produced at yellow-red heat .
The theory of symmetrical neutrality which I have demonstrated , 1884 .
] On Magnetic Polarity and Neutrality .
413requires that there should he a sufficient thickness in a bar of iron or steel in order to produce a symmetrical opposing polarity .
Coulomb's-theory of the neutrality taking place in the molecule itself requires no thickness except that of a molecule .
Ampere 's theory could allow of heterogeneity on the surface as easily as in the interior , consequently thickness of a bar would , according to these theories , have no favourable result ; but if the theory that I have advanced is true , , thickness should have the greatest possible influence .
An extremely thin strip or bar of iron should have an infinitely higher proportionate remaining magnetism from the want of interior reaction , whilst an extremely large solid bar should have infinitely less proportionate remaining magnetism .
This at once allows us to test the truth of the theory by an independent method free from all experimental errors , as we may place in the coil of the magnetic balance bars of iron ox-steel of different degrees of thickness , observe their magnetic capacity whilst under the influence of an electric current , and the degree of remaining magnetism on its cessation , and note the extraordinary influence which thickness has in allowing space for the opposing waves-of polarity to produce instantly a higher degree of neutrality than is possible without its aid .
The conditions of the experiments are really those of ordinary electro-magnets , the iron or steel under observation is simply at the time of observation a core of an electro-magnet .
Numerous experiments were made on this subject , all confirming the views advanced .
A few examples will be sufficient to include them all , for if we place in the coil of the balance different thicknesses of the same diameter and length of iron or steel , we notice a marked rise in its exterior force or magnetic capacity while under the influence of the electric current , and upon its cessation an equally marked return to a more perfect neutrality with each increase of thickness .
The table on the following page contains sufficient examples to show this clearly .
This table gives the results of round cores ; experiments , however , were also made with flat bars with like results , the form or length having no direct influence , as the reactions are transversal and localised from a point in the exterior to one in the interior .
Comparing No. 1 of the table ( consisting of an extremely thin sheet-iron tube ) with No. 2 ( a solid bar of iron of exactly similar size ) , we have for the thin tube a remaining magnetism of 50 per cent , of its previous polar force , and in the solid bar we have only 3 per cent. ; whilst in the solid bar , where the opposing waves of polarity could easily form and produce a near approach to neutrality , we find that its polar force under the influence of the coil is 400 per cent , greater than that of the thin tube .
Although , as well known , hard steel has a higher retaining power , Prof. D. E. Hughes .
[ Mar. 6 , 1 .
Tube of thin soft iron , 2 centims. diameter , 20 centims. long , ^ millim. thickness 2 .
Similar size solid rod of soft iron 3 .
" " cast steel , tempered .
4 .
, , " bundle of 1 millim. diameter soft iron wires 5 .
" " glass tube filled with iron filings .
Magnetic capacity under influence of the coil .
Remaining magnetism on I cessation of the electric current .
1 Daniell element .
218 960 458 1268 160 106 29 18 142 15 6 .
Soft Swedish iron wire , 1 millim. diameter 455 105 7 .
Hard tempered cast-steel wire , 1 millim. diameter ... . .
49 16 8 .
Brass f Electro-plated with f 3 centims. diameter tube \ iron extremely thin \ 20 " long .
\gt ; 0#95 0 *94 9 / Electro-plated with iron v ooi *1 AA y* a 4 to ^ millim. thickness f H H Zol 109 10 .
" Ditto , 1 millim. thickness it t \#187 ; 401 72 n. " , , 1 cenfcim .
, , 4 centims. diameter 1075 35 still , this can be reduced far below that of the soft thin iron if sufficient thickness is allowed in order to produce the internal reactions .
This is shown in Ho. 3 , where a solid 2 centims. diameter of hard-cast steel has double the force of the thin soft iron under polarising influence , and its remaining magnetism only 4 per cent , of its previous force .
This shows clearly that Jamin 's views of the superiority of thin steel bars over thick where permanent magnetism is desired , are fully confirmed , as in order to have raised the cast-steel 2 centims. thick bar to a high remaining magnetism , we should have had to employ at least fifty times stronger inducing force than that necessary for the thin bars .
The proportion of remaining magnetism in iron or steel to the inducing force is almost similar throughout the entire range up to saturation , where the remaining magnetism is no longer proportional to the inducing power , but remains a constant , no matter how high and powerful the influence .excited .
The molecules have simply then rotated to parallelism and cannot rotate further without diminishing its force , and the sudden spring back to a partial neutrality is then the same for all forces above that of saturation .
The proportion of remaining magnetism to that of its magnetic capacity under the influence of an inducing field , is shown in Nos. 6 and 7 , where iron and steel wires of similar diameter have not a wide difference , the remaining magnetism here 1884 .
] On Magnetic Polarity and Neutrality .
415 being 25 .
per cent , for iron , and 33 per cent , for steel of its proportionate previous force .
The most conclusive experiments , however , will he seen in Nos. 8 , 9 , 10 , and 11 .
No. 8 being a brass tube coated with an exceedingly thin transparent coat of iron ( I was unable to measure its thickness ) , , f this thin coating of iron was easily raised to its saturation by a feeble battery , from which point no increase of battery power had the ' slightest effect , giving always 0o,95 .
The extraordinary effect of thinness was seen on taking off the inducing influence , no perceptible movement of the needle on the balance occurred , indicating that its retaining power was the same as its capacity or 100 per cent , of retention ; vibrations and hammering which reduce a solid bar at once to perfect neutrality had no effect .
I have , however , marked it down as 0o,94 as a limit of experimental error ; if we assume only 80 per cent , of its previous force it is still sufficiently remarkable .
At No. 9 where the brass was coated to a measurable thickness of millim. , we already see a better return to neutrality , having now only 50 per cent , of proportionate remaining magnetism ; at No. lO* where we have 1 millim. thickness , we have improved our neutrality by having only 20 per cent. , and at No. 11 we have , by means of an increased thickness of 1 centim. , almost completely allowed the balancing waves of opposite polarity perfect formation , the remaining magnetism now being only 3 per cent , of its proportional power ; and if we even neglect the proportional power , we see that the 1 centim. bar has far less remaining magnetism than that of 1 or yj millim. , .
whilst its magnetic capacity is far higher .
No. 4 shows that while bundles of wires have a higher remaining magnetism than solid ( due to the want of homogeneity allowing perfect formation of the opposing waves ) , still from their increased surface exposed to the inducing effect they give a higher magnetic effect , the differential effect ( as that employed in temporary electromagnetic and induction coils ) is greater , being here for a solid ban 960\#151 ; 29=931 , and for the bundles of iron wire 1,268\#151 ; 142=1,126 useful effect.* The effect of thickness even upon finely divided iron such as filings is shown in No. 5,.where the remaining magnetism is only 9 per cent , against 50 per cent , as shown in No. 1 , and we have precisely similar * If we require a continuous magnetic effect , as in the field magnets of dynamo -machines or small constant electro-magnets for extremely feeble electromotive force , solid cores or bundles of wire of large diameter should be employed , but as the time-of charge and discharge increases with the diameter , it would be unsuitable for electro-magnets requiring rapid charges , such as those employed for telegraph relays , large electro-magnets requiring several seconds to charge them to saturation , while extremely small electro-magnets may be saturated in the part of a second .
416 On Magnetic Polarity and Neutrality .
[ Mar. 6 results with , thin slices of iron filings as we do with the solid iron in sheets or tubes .
It would be difficult to explain these effects upon any hypothesis except that of molecular rotation .
For , if we regard it as simply a .case of magnetic induction , the stronger reacting upon the weaker we fail to explain the perfect spiral form of the opposing waves , and sabove all , the reversal of the exterior , which was evidently the most strongly polarised , but if we suppose that the similar polarities of all f ; he molecules have rotated , symmetrically pointing their north polarities to the evident north end of the bar , we have only to imagine a series of magnetic needles superposed with all their north polarities pointing in one direction brought and held there by the influence of a strong external magnet .
If this influence was nearer the first needle than the last , we should have a slight spiral due to its diminishing effect , precisely as we notice in the curve in iron whilst oinder external influence .
Now withdraw the exterior force , the needles would react against each other , and as they are free to move in all directions , there would be an increased spiral , the outside being reversed to its previous position , while the spiral would continue in " the interior , reversing the larger portion of the needles until they all found a position of equilibrium , which would then represent neutrality .
If we had no frictional resistance to molecular rotation , we should \#166 ; obtain perfectly balanced curves in comparatively thin iron , but as -this resistance is great and demonstrated by the loosening influence of mechanical vibrations , we require a certain depth of iron so that a complete curve shall be easily obtained with comparatively infinitely small motion of each molecule .
That inherent magnetic polarity is a quality of all matter , solid , liquid , gaseous , and the ether itself , varying only in degree and not in nature , seems demonstrated by a series of researches I have been making upon the mechanism employed in magnetic conduction through the atmosphere and Crookes 's vacuum .
These researches are being made by means of the induction and .
magnetic balance .
They prove that the atmosphere , and presumably " the ether as well as all liquids and gases , have their saturation point similar to iron , that the curve is the same as in perfect soft iron , and that the highest magnetic capacity of iron does not exceed that of the atmosphere by more than forty times , consequently we may fairly assume that the ether may be regarded as an extremely magnetic body , obeying the same laws as those of iron ; and as I regard the symmetrical rotation of magnetic molecules as the cause of evident magnetism in iron , and as the difference in force between iron , copper , and ether is simply a differential one , I believe that the neutrality which appears in all paramagnetic and diamagnetic bodies , wherever 1884 .
] On the Origin of Fibrin Ferment .
the exciting influence is withdrawn , is formed by mutual molecular reactions producing closed circuits of mutual attractions as demonstrated in iron .
A line of force between a magnet and its armature is to me simply a line of molecular rotation , lines would neither be added nor subtracted , they could simply be rotated from a symmetrical neutrality to an equal symmetrical point of saturation .
In my paper upon the theory of magnetism , I showed that there were several molecular arrangements which produced external neutrality , the circular chain of molecules , when an electric current passes through an iron wire , a neutrality produced by an artificial superposition of a weaker contrary magnetism upon one more internal , and made the supposition that were it possible to have a piece of iron free from the influence of the earth , then ( if there had been no previous magnetisation directing the structure ) the molecules would short circuit their mutual attractions in the shortest path .
The experiments cited in this paper are of an extremely simple nature , and after being verified by independent observers can no longer leave doubt as to the cause of neutrality .
Whatever theory we adopt as an explanation of evident magnetism , it will be found that neutrality occurring after the cessation of an external inducing force upon a bar of iron or steel , is the result of symmetrically opposed polar forces , producing apparent waves of opposite polarity , or reactions between the exterior and interior of a bar of iron .
II .
" On the Origin of the Fibrin Ferment .
" By L. C. WOOLDRIDGE , M.B. , D.Sc .
, George Henry Lewes Student .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received February 26 , 1884 .
The " fibrin ferment " which makes its appearance in shed blood is generally , I believe , supposed to arise from the cellular elements of blood , either from ordinary white corpuscles or from some special kind of corpuscles , the cells so concerned discharging the ferment into the blood or setting it free by their actual disintegration .
Without wishing to deny that this may be one source of fibrin ferment , I am able , I think , to bring forward evidence that ferment may make its appearance in blood-plasma perfectly free from cellular , and indeed from all formed elements , in which case it must arise from some constituents of the plasma itself , and not from cells of any kind .
It will be most convenient , perhaps , if I state the facts which I have to bring forward in connexion with two series of experiments .

