Application of the Kinetic Theory of Gases .
" On the Application of the Kinetic Theory of Gases to the Electric , Magnetic , and Optical Properties of Diatomic Gases .
" By George W. Walker , B.A. , A.R.C.Sc .
, Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , Sir Isaac Newton Research Student .
Communicated by Professor Pucker , Sec. R.S. Received January 23 , \#151 ; Read February 14 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The aim of this paper is to apply the method of " The Boltzmann -Maxwell Kinetic Theory of Gases " to the electric , magnetic , and optical properties of gases .
For the sake of simplicity the molecule is supposed to consist of two atoms , so that the results apply to gases such as Hydrogen or Oxygen .
Several of the results indicate , however , qualitatively what we might expect for more complex molecules .
One of the atoms is supposed to have a positive electric charge and the other an equal negative charge , and the force in play between the two atoms is taken as the ordinary electrostatic force .
It is contended that the molecules may be classified into three types\#151 ; ( 1 ) that in which the two atoms rotate in contact ; ( 2 ) that in which the two atoms revolve in elliptic orbits about their C.G. , but not in contact ; ( 3 ) that in which the two atoms move in hyperbolic-orbits for the short time during which they influence each other appreciably .
They may thus be regarded as practically free .
The first portion of the paper is concerned with calculations respecting the relative proportions of these three sets ; and although a quite complete solution is not obtained , the results indicate certain important features , and may prepare the way for a more complete investigation .
It is next shown that such a system will exhibit magnetic properties , and the coefficient of magnetic susceptibility is calculated .
The formula obtained shows a close agreement with Professor Quincke 's experiments on this question .
The system will also exhibit electrical properties .
The dielectric constant is calculated .
The formula differs essentially from other theories of electric susceptibility , e.g. , Boltzmann 's , in the important dependence on temperature .
A note at the end of the paper , giving some recent experimental results by Herr Karl Baedecker , shows how closely the theory agrees with his experimental observations of the temperature effect .
The electrical conductivity is calculated as depending on the number of free atoms present .
Reference is also made to a paper by the author , communicated to the Physical Society of London , in which it is shown how the formation of striae in a vacuum tube may be accounted for .
Proceedings and List of Papers read .
The optical properties are next considered , and the amount of refraction produced by free atoms and molecules calculated .
' The calculations on the free atoms are of interest , inasmuch as it is shown that they accelerate the velocity with which waves are transmitted .
With regard to the molecules , it is shown that the optical control may be regarded as due to w2 , the mean value of o/ 2 for the molecules , where w is the angular velocity of rotation of the two atoms about their common C.G. Dispersion is also accounted for , and depends essentially on the distribution law of velocities .
The effects of radiation from the molecules are also considered in the course of the work .
The rate of rotation of the plane of polarisation in a magnetic field is also calculated , and the sign of the rotation shown to depend on which atom has the larger mass .
If the masses are equal no rotation is produced .
The work borders in some ways with Professor W. Voigt 's investigations .
The formulae obtained are applied to the case of oxygen to obtain estimates of e/ m1 and e/ m-2 , e being the charge and ru\ and the masses of the two atoms .
An estimate of to , and hence of 2r0 , the sum of the radii of the two atoms , is also obtained .
The value of ejm\ agrees closely numerically with this ratio obtained from electrolytic considerations , while the .
value of e/ m2agrees closely with the value obtained from considerations of the Zeeman effect .
February 21 , 1901 .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , followed by The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " An Attempt to Estimate the Vitality of Seeds by an Electrical Method .
" By Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. II .
" On a New Manometer , and on the Law of the Pressure of Gases between 1*5 and O'Ol Millimetres of Mercury .
" By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. III .
11 An Investigation of the Spectra of I lames resulting from Operations in the Opeiishearth and ' Basic Bessemer Processes .
" By Professor W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , and Hugh Ram age .

