266 Mr. G. J. Romanes on [ Jan. 16 , 5 .
The contraction of nerve-corpuscles , which , being much more marked between their branches , gave them a scalloped appearance .
Vacuoles were formed within them , and in the spaces formed by their retraction , and by the retraction of surrounding parts .
6 .
In some places rupture of nervous tissue was observed .
7 .
In longitudinal sections nerve-fibres were found flattened and varicose , the flattening resembling that described by Elischer in fibres of median nerve in chorea .
Conclusions.\#151 ; 1 .
That , in young dogs , the protoplasmic constituent of the grey matter contracts en masse under the influence of strong faradaic currents .
2 .
That it contracts unequally and irregularly by reason of its unequal and irregular sectional area , causing thereby condensations at certain points\#151 ; notably in the anterior horns and around the central canal\#151 ; and rarefaction at others\#151 ; notably in the middle of each crescent ; such rarefaction going on sometimes to rupture of tissues .
1 3 .
That nerve-corpuscles contract in various degrees according to the strength and duration of currents , and that while they tend in contraction to become spherical they also tend to become vacuolated .
\#166 ; 4 .
That the vessels are in some places strongly contracted and empty ; in others dilated and filled with blood clot , having the appearance of embolus .
5 .
That the appearances correspond so decidedly with appearances in chorea and tetanus as to give ground for the supposition that con- ; tractions , such as are produced by electricity , do actually occur during life under the effect of nervous shock , and may be phenomena causal or associate of disease .
V. " Concluding Observations on the Locomotor System off Medusae .
" By George J. Romanes , M.A. , F.L.S. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received December BO , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The principal bulk of the paper is devoted to a full consideration of numerous facts and inferences relating to the phenomena of what the author terms " artificial rhythm .
" Some of these facts have already been published in abstract in the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " ( vol. xxv ) , and to explain those which have not been published would involve more space than it is here desirable to allow .
The tendency of the whole research on artificial rhythm , as produced in various species of Medusae , is to show that the natural rhythm of these animals ( and so probably of ganglio-muscular tissues in general ) is due , not exclusively to the intermittent nature of the ganglionic \gt ; 879 .
] the Locomotor System of Medus 267 | igcharge , but also in large measure to an alternate process of ex-austion and restoration of excitability on the part of the responding o agues\#151 ; the ganglionic period coinciding with that during which the rocess of restoration lasts , and the ganglionic discharge being thus a lways thrown in at the moment when the excitability of the respond-ag tissues is at its climax .
3 Light has been found to stimulate the lithocysts of covered-eyed ledusse into increased activity , thus proving that these organs , like he marginal bodies of the naked-eyed Medusae , are rudimentary irgans of vision .
\#166 ; The polypite of Aurelia aurita has been proved to execute move-nents of localization of stimuli , somewhat similar to those which the mthor has already described as being performed by the polypite of o Tiaropsis indicans .
Alternating the direction of the constant current in the muscular tissues of the Medusae has the effect of maintaining the make and !
1 break stimulations at their maximum value ; but the value of these stimulations rapidly declines if they are successively repeated with the ncurrent passing in the same direction .
In the sub-umbrella of the Medusae waves of nervous excitation are sometimes able to pass when waves of muscular contraption have ' become blocked by the severity of overlapping sections .
Exhaustion of the sub-umbrella tissues\#151 ; especially in narrow connecting isthmuses of tissue\#151 ; may have the effect of blocking the 6 passage of contractile waves .
Lithocysts have been proved sometimes to exert their ganglionic influence at comparatively great distances from their own seats\#151 ; contractile waves , originating at points in the sub-umbrella tissue remote from a lithocyst , and ceasing to originate at that point when the lithocyst is removed .
A nervous connexion of this kind may be M maintained between a lithocyst and the point at which the waves of .y contraction originate even after severe* forms of section have been s interposed between the lithocyst and that point .
When the sub-umbrella tissue of Aurelia is cut throughout its i f whole diameter , the incision will again heal up , sufficiently to restore I physiological continuity , in from four to eight hours .
January 23 , 1879 .
W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
U 2

