155 Observations on the Life-history of Adelea ovata , Schneider , with a Note on a New Gregarine from the Gut of Litnobius forficatus .
By C. C. Dobell , B.A. , Scholar of Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by J. J. Lister , F.R.S. Received November 19 , 1906 , \#151 ; Read January 17,1907 .
) [ Plates 2 and 3 .
] At the suggestion of Mr. J. J. Lister , F.R.S. , I recently undertook a reinvestigation of the sporozoan parasites occurring in the gut of the centipede , Lithobius forficatus .
The present paper is the result of these investigations .
It is with pleasure that I take this opportunity of expressing my thanks for the advice and assistance I have received not only from Mr. Lister , but also from Mr. Adam Sedgwick , F.R.S. , and from Mr. W. S. Perrin .
No less than six protozoan parasites have been recorded from the gut of Lithobius forficatus\#151 ; four Coccidia and two Gregarines .
The Cambridge centipede appears to harbour but a single one of the former\#151 ; namely , Adelea ovata , A. Schn.\#151 ; whilst both the latter* have been observed in rather less than 1 per cent , of the animals examined .
It is with the sexual phases of the life cycle of A. ovata that the present paper is chiefly concerned .
Previous Work.\#151 ; Adelea ovata was first described-}- by Aim Schneider in 1875 [ 12 ] , and although a part of the sexual process was observed , it was not recognised as such .
Schneider published some further particulars in 1892 [ 14 ] .
In 1897 Schaudinn and SiedleckiJ published a preliminary account of the Coccidia of the centipede , and later\#151 ; in 1899\#151 ; Siedlecki [ 16 ] gave a detailed description of the whole life-history of Adelea ovata .
Subsequent writers have described other species of the genus Adelea , and in all cases the life cycle appears to correspond closely with that recorded by Siedlecki .
I may say that I am able to confirm most of the results obtained by this writer , but I have come to different conclusions regarding one or two points .
The most important of these deals with the formation of the microgamete3 .
Methods.\#151 ; The best results have been obtained by adopting Schaudinn 's methods [ 11 ] .
The entire gut was removed , and the epithelial cells and gut-contents spread out upon a coverslip .
The films thus obtained were * Viz .
, Actinocephalus dujardini , A. Selin .
, and , A. Selin .
t As a gregarine .
% Schaudinn and Siedlecki , ' Sitz .
ber .
d. d. zool .
Gesell .
, ' 1897 .
Mr. C. C. Dobell .
Observations on the [ Nov. 19 , instantly fixed by immersion in hot sublimate-alcohol containing a trace of acetic* acid ( Schaudinn ) .
After fixation the films were treated with alcohol containing iodine , and stained in Biitschli 's modification of Delafield 's hsematoxylin.* This I prepare by adding 1-per-cent , acetic acid solution to a 0*5-per-cent .
solution of the ordinary concentrated Delafield 's hsematoxylin in water until a pink colour is produced .
Staining , for all stages except spores , is complete in from 15 to 30 hours .
Giemsa 's modification of the Romanowsky-Nocht stain was tried , among others , but it proved to be of little use for delicate nuclear structures , owing to the drying which necessarily takes place .
Transverse sections of the gut were made , but they were found to be unsatisfactory .
Moist films are far more useful for examining the Coccidia .
I will now proceed to describe the stages which I have observed and which differ from those hitherto recorded .
( 1 ) Association.\#151 ; The entire genus Adelea i3 characterised by a precocious association of the gametocytes .
This was observed in A. ovata as long ago as 1875 , although , strangely enough , it was not even suspected of being connected with any sexual process .
Association , it may be noted , takes place in the lumen of the gut , and not in the epithelium .
Siedlecki , who ultimately interpreted this phase correctly , states that but a single micro-gametocyte ever attaches itself to a macrogametocyte .
Only once did he observe two microgametocytes attached to the same female individual .
My observations , on the contrary , lead me to believe that this condition is not uncommon .
I have seen upwards of a dozen instances in which two microgametocytes were attached to the same macrogametocyte .
Apparently , these microgametocytes do not always develop or become attached simultaneously , for they may be found in different stages of maturity ( cf. Plate 3 , fig. 3 ) .
Association in which more than one microgametocyte takes part has been described by Laveranf in the closely allied form Klossia helicina .
An association of two microgametocytes with one another as described in A. mesnili ( Perez ) and A. zonula ( Moroff ) , has never come under my observation .
( 2 ) Formation of Microgametes.\#151 ; The only detailed account of the genesis of the male gametes of A. ovata is that given by Siedlecki .
He states that the nucleus of the microgametocyte divides into two daughter-nuclei , each of which then divides in a plane at right angles to that of the first division , so that four nuclei result .
These nuclei then develop into the * Biitschli , 'Zeitschr .
f. wiss .
Mik .
, ' ix , 2 , 1892 , p. 197 .
t Laveran , ' C. R Soc. Biol. Paris , ' 1898 ( Novembre ) .
1906.1 Life-history of Adelea ovata , Aim .
four microgametes , one of which is destined to fertilise the macrogamete ; the remaining three perish .
In the first nuclear division it was believed that the quantity of chromatin was reduced , whereas the number of chromosomes was reduced in the second division .
I am convinced that this is not a correct interpretation of this particular gametogenesis ; and the inference that the maturation of these gametes approaches the metazoan type is , to my mind , quite unjustifiable .
To follow the formation of the male gametes from the beginning , it is necessary to describe in detail a merozoite of the male type .
Such a merozoite is shown in the accompanying figure ( text-fig .
1 ) .
Fig. 1 .
It is seen to consist of a somewhat fusiform ( or sometimes falciform ) body , containing a nucleus ( n. ) and a large peripheral karyosome ( \amp ; .
) .
Sometimes two or even three karyosomes are present , hut the usual number is one .
Occasionally it appears to be extranuclear .
At one end of the merozoite\#151 ; usually that remote from the karyosome\#151 ; a number of granules is usually , though not always , present .
These are the so-called " pigment granules " ( p. gr. ) .
I am inclined to believe that they are really chromatin granules .
They staiu deeply with hsematoxylin , and are coloured red by Giemsa 's stain .
They are never present in macromerozoites .
/ - z. 5 .
4 .
'- 5 .
6 .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Semi-diagrammatic Representation of Formation of Microgametes .
The macrogametocyte is not shown .
Mr. C. C. Dobell .
Observations on the [ Nov. 19 , A micromerozoite , such as that just described , may increase in size and become a microgametocyte ( text-fig .
2 ( 1 ) ) .
It then becomes attached to a macrogametocyte in the usual manner .
During its transformation into a microgametocyte , the karyosome travels to the centre of the nucleus , and is apparently reinforced by the nuclear chromatin .
A part of this latter , however , is usually to be found lying free in the clear nucleus in the form of granules .
The next step towards the formation of the microgametes consists in a dispersal of the karyosome and the formation of a chromatic network in the nucleus .
This is shown in ( 2 ) text-fig .
2 , and may take place before association occurs .
Further breaking up* of the karyosome now ensues\#151 ; provided that association has taken place\#151 ; the chromatin particles invading the cytoplasm and there forming a chro midialf net ( 3 ) .
When the karyosome is completely broken up , and the outline of the nucleus has completely disappeared , the microgametocyte is seen to contain a chromidial net completely filling it from end to end ( 4 ) .
The foregoing stages ( 1 to 4 ) may be conveniently termed the analytic phase .
Those which follow constitute what I may call the synthetic phase , in which four new nuclei are built up from the chromatic elements of the old nucleus .
Synthesis begins with the gathering up of the chromidial net into a more or less rounded mass ( 5 ) which soon becomes constricted in the middle , giving rise to a dumb-bell shaped reticulum ( 6 ) .
If deeply stained , it has the appearance of a dividing nucleus.* The ends of the dumb-bell now extend transversely , and the chromatin becomes localised at the four poles so formed ( 7 ) .
At the same time , the intermediate portion becomes diffuse ; it finally breaks up , undergoes degeneration , and is left behind\#151 ; with a small quantity of pigment\#151 ; in the residuum of the microgametocyte when the microgametes forsake it .
Four special points , we have seen , have now become centres for the aggregation of chromatin .
Chromatin continues to travel to each point , and at first arranges itself in the form of a loose net .
The net then resolves * The exact manner in which the breaking up of the karyosome takes place is unknown to me .
X have never been able to watch the process in the living animal .
That breaking up does occur is inferred from the fact that the karyosome becomes smaller and smaller , whilst the chromatin granules increase in number .
+ See , further , under " Chromidia , " next page .
t I should like to mention here the fact that published figures purporting to show two nuclei in the microgametocyte really show what I believe to be the stage just described .
All the figures given by Siedlecki show two " nuclei " connected together\#151 ; in no case are they completely separate .
Siedlecki 's " corpuscule intermediate " is , I believe , a more deeply stained portion of the intervening network .
1906 .
] Life-history of Adelea ovata , Aim Schneider .
159 itself into a stellate mass of chromatin .
Hence the highly-characteristic figure of a microgametocyte containing four star-shaped nuclei is presented ( 8 ) .
The stars finally become rounded off ( 9)\#151 ; the spherical nuclei so formed afterwards elongating to form the microgametes , which apparently consist entirely of chromatin ( " chromatozoites " ) ( 10\#151 ; 11 ) .
Many of the microgametes enclose a clear space resembling the vacuole described by Schaudinn in Coccidium schubergi .
A mature microgamete is shown on a larger scale in text-fig .
2 ( 12 ) .
It will be seen from the foregoing that my account of the formation of the male gametes differs considerably from that of previous writers .
It now becomes an interesting point to determine whether a similar chromidial condition occurs at any period in the life-history of the female forms .
So far , I have been unable to reach any satisfactory conclusion with regard to this .
However , the following observations seem worth recording in this connection :\#151 ; ( a ) A single instance has occurred in which the individuals of a group of macromerozoites were found to have their nuclei in a chromidial condition ( see Plate 3 , fig. 6 ) .
( b ) Since the stellate nuclei of the microgametocyte are formed by synthesis from chromidia , it is possible that the stellate nuclei of the macro-schizont may have a similar origin .
Although , up to the present , I have not been able to demonstrate that this is the case , nevertheless , I think that the macroschizont , of which fig. 5 , Plate 3 , is an exact copy , probably shows a stage in which neuclei are being synthesised by the concentration of chromidia at various points .
It should be noticed that a considerable quantity of chromatin is scattered through the cytoplasm .
I am , of course , ready to admit that this may be quite a wrong interpretation of the appearances .
Possibly they are due to degenerative changes .
Nevertheless , the phenomenon of chromidia-formation has assumed such importance , owing to recent work in other groups of the Protozoa , that I believe the conditions described may be found to be not altogether insignificant .
Chromidia.\#151 ; So many new facts regarding chromidial structures have recently come to light , and so little notice has been taken of them in England , that I think a few words on chromidia in general may not be out of place here .
As it is obviously impossible to treat the subject fully in the present paper , I have given a short list of papers bearing on the subject in the literature list ( B ) at the end ; for a more detailed list of references I refer the reader to the writings of Hertwig [ 21 ] and Goldschmidt [ 18 , 19 ] .
The conception of chromidia was first formulated by Richard Hertwig in 1902 [ 20 ] , and resulted from his observations on , etc. Mr. C. C. Dobell .
Observations on the [ Nov. 19 , Since then , many other " chromidial " nuclear phenomena have been described .
Indeed , it is now a matter of some difficulty to give a definition of chromidia which will embrace all conditions so described .
In its widest sense , the term is applied to all chromatin substance ( .
, all matter which takes up nuclear stains ) which lies within the cell and which is not gathered together in the form of a definite nucleus .
Chromatin granules of diverse shapes and sizes , strands , networks\#151 ; all these come in this category ; and , moreover , the physiology of these structures seems to be no less heterogeneous than their morphology .
For chromidia seem to be formed sometimes as the result of degeneration , sometimes as a form of nuclear division , sometimes as katabolic products of nuclear activity\#151 ; sometimes ( as in bacteria ) , being the normal vegetative stage of the neucleus\#151 ; and so on .
Many new terms have been introduced for these various forms of chromidia .
Since many of these have not received general acceptance , and since many are , I think , quite unjustifiable , owing to our present ignorance of the causes underlying the different phenomena , I have used but two terms in my description of the nuclear changes in A. , \#151 ; " chromidia " for separate chromatin granules lying in the cytoplasm , and " chromidial net " for a collection of chromatin granules united by a reticulum .
Amongst the terms which are more frequently met with in papers on this subject the following may be mentioned :\#151 ; The name " ( Goldschmidt ) has been given to chromidial structures formed previous to gamete formation .
" Protogonoplasm " ( Calkins ) and " Idiochromidium " ( Goldschmidt ) are other terms applied to the same structures .
Then , again , we have such terms as " Trophochromidium " and " Ghromidium " ( ) applied by Goldschmidt to chromidial structures of a vegetative ( as opposed to reproductive ) nature .
Other terms , such as " distributed nucleus " ( Calkins ) , etc. , require no special explanation .
A chromidial condition of the nucleus may occur , apparently , not only in all the chief subdivisions of the Protozoa , but also in some Metazoa and in Bacteria .
The great interest which attaches to chromidia arises from the fact that investigation of these structures has revealed a " Doppelkernigkeit , " or nuclear dimorphism , in many Protozoa .
That is to say , two distinct elements can be recognised in many protozoan nuclei\#151 ; one , a " propagative " element , the other , a " somatic " The propagative seems specially liable to separate from the somatic as chromidia ( cf. Schaudinn , Neresheimer , etc. ) .
The heterokaryote condition of the Ciliata thus finds a parallel in many other Protozoa .
To the single nucleus , combining the chromatic elements proper both to the soma and reproduction , is given the name " amphinuc/ eus .
" 1906 .
] Life-history of Adelea ovata , Airae Schneider .
161 From the foregoing remarks , I think it will be evident that the subject of chromidia is one of great importance , but not one on which we are at present , owing to our lack of knowledge , able to dogmatise .
I will conclude by quoting Mesnil .
" II fautsays this writer , " bien se garder de trop generalises et chaque cas ou le protoplasme se charge de granulations chromatiques doit 6tre etudie avec soin a ce nouveau point de vue .
" Note on a New Gregarine from the Gut of Lithobius forficatus .
Whilst examining centipedes for stages in the life-history of A. , I came across the trophozoites of a gregarine which , I think , has not been recorded hitherto .
The trophozoites were very numerous , but no spores or other stages could be found .
Hence it is at present impossible to refer the animal to its proper systematic position .
Only one centipede which I examined contained these gregarines , but in this particular case they were very numerous .
The Lithobius infected was in a dying condition just before I examined it , possibly owing to the harmful .effects of the parasite .
The gregarine has an exceedingly simple structure ( see fig. 3 ) .
There is Fig. 3 .
no epimerite , and the body is non-septate and usually slightly more pointed at one end than at the other .
A large nucleus containing a big karyosome is .situated more or less in the middle of the animal : its position varies .
The average length is 127 ji , breadth 48 g. The measurements were made from permanent preparations .
LITERATURE .
( 4 .
) Relating to Adelea .
1 .
Biitschli , O. " Kleine Beitrage sir Kenntniss der Gregarinen : III , tjber eine eiformige Psorospermie aus dem Darm des Lithobius forficatus " ( ' Zeitschr .
f. wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 35 , 1881 ) .
2 .
Doflein , F. " Die Protozoen als Parasiten u. Krankheitserreger , etc. , " Jena , 1901 .
3 .
Labb6 , A. " Recherches zoologiques , ey tologiques et biologiques sir les Coccidies " ( ' Arch , de Zool. exp .
et gen .
, ' vol. 4 , 1896 ) .
4 ------- Art .
" Sporozoa , " in ' Das Tierreich , ' Lief .
5 , 1899 .
Mr. C. C. Dobell .
Observations on the [ Nov. 19 5 .
Leger , L. " Sur la morphologie et le developpement des Microgametes des Coccidies ( ' Arch , de Zool. exp .
et gen .
, Notes et Revue , ' vol. 6 , 1898 ) .
______ " Essai sur la Classification des Coccidies et description de quelques espdces .
nouvelles ou peu connues " ( 'Ann .
de Mus. de Hist. Nat. Marseille\#151 ; Bulletin , * vol. 1 , fasc .
I , 1898 ) .
7 .
______ " Sporozoaires parasites de VEmbia Rambur " ( 'Arch .
f. Protistenk .
, * vol. 3 , 1904 ) .
8 .
Minchin , E. A. Art .
" Sporozoa , " in Lankester 's 'Treatise on Zoology , ' Part Ir fasc .
2 , 1903 .
' 9 .
Moroff , T. " Untersuchung fiber Coccidien .
L Adelea , nov .
sp. " ( ' Arch. f " Protistenk .
, ' vol. 8 , pt .
1 , 1906 ) .
10 .
P6rez , C. " Le cycle 6volutif de Y Adelea , coccidie ccelomique , parasite d'un Lepidoptere " ( ' Arch. f. Protistenk .
, ' vol. 2 , 1903 ) .
11 .
Schaudinn , F. " Untersuchungen fiber den Generationswechsel bei Coccidien " ( 'Zool .
Jahrb .
, Abth .
f. Anat .
, ' vol. 13 , 1900 ) .
12 .
Schneider , Aim6 .
" Contributions a l'histoire des Gr6garines des invertkbres de Pariset de Roscoff " ( ' Arch , de Zool. exp .
et g6n .
, ' vol. 4 , 1875 ) .
13 .
------ " Coccidies nouvelles ou peu connues " ( 'Tabl .
Zool. , ' vol. 1 , 1880 ) .
14 .
------ " Coccidies nouvelles , etc. " ( ' Tabl .
Zool. , ' vol. 2 , 1892 ) .
15 .
Siedlecki , M. " Etude cytologique et cycle 6volutif de la Coccidie de la Seiche ( ' Ann. de l'Inst .
Past .
, ' vol. 12 , 1898 ) .
16 .
----- " Etude cytologique et cycle 6volutif de Adelea ovata , Schneider " ( ' Ann. de : l'Inst .
Past .
, ' vol. 13 , 1899 ) .
( \#163 ; .
) Relating to Chromidia .
17 .
Calkins , G. N. " Evidences of a Sexual-cycle in the Life-history of Amoeba proteus " ( ' Arch. f. Protistenk .
, ' vol. 5 , 1905 ) .
18 .
Goldschmidt , R. " Der Chromidialapparat lebhaft funktionierender Gewebszellen v ( ' Zool. Jahrb .
, Abth .
f. Anat .
, ' vol. 21 , 1904 ) .
19 .
----- " Die Chromidien der Protozoen " ( ' Arch. f. Protistenk .
, ' vol. 5 , 1905 ) .
20 .
Gonder , R. " Beitrage zur Kenntnis d. Kernverhaltnisse bei den in Cephalopoden schmarotzenden Infusorien " ( ' Arch. f. Protistenk .
, ' vol. 5 , 1905 ) .
21 .
Hertwig , R. " Die Protozoen und die Zelltheorie " ( 'Arch .
f. Protistenk .
, 'vol .
1 , 1902 ) .
22 .
\#151 ; ---- " Uber physiologische Degeneration bei A ctinosphoerium eichhomi * ( 'Festschr .
f. E. Hackel , ' 1904 ) .
23 .
Lister , J. J. " The Life-history of the Foraminifera " ( ' Presidential Address , Sec. D , Brit. Assoc. , ' 1906 ) .
24 .
Mesnil , F. " Chromidies et questions connexes " ( ' Bull .
Inst. Pasteur , ' vol. 3 , 1905 ) .
25 .
Neresheimer , E. " Die Zeugungskreis v. Opalina " ( ' Sitzungsb .
d. Gesell .
f. Morph .
u. Physiol , in Mfinchen , ' Part 1 , 1906 ) .
26 .
Schaudinn , F. " Beitrag zur Kenntnis der Bakterien u. verwandter Organismen"\#151 ; 1 .
Bacterium butschlii ( 'Arch .
f. Protistenk .
, ' vol. 1 , 1902 ) ; 2 .
Bacillus sporonema ( loc. cit. , vol. 2 , 1903 ) .
27 .
----- " Untersuchung fiber d. Fortpflanzung einiger Rhizopoden " ( 'Arb .
aus d. k. Gesundheitsamte , ' vol. 19 , pt .
3 , 1903 ) .
28 .
Zfilzer , M. " Beitrag zur Kenntnis von Difflugia , Carter " ( 'Arch , fProtistenk .
, ' vol. 4 , 1904 ) .
Dobell .
Roy .
Soc. Proo .
Byob 7 .
% PI .
m ag 3\amp ; \amp ; K- $p ml .
wmmmm S * p r* fyyiz - , \lt ; k M A \#166 ; \#166 ; v jt \#171 ; k A P5 \gt ; .
\#166 ; / C.C.D del .
Huth Lit'h1 ' London Dobell ' f '* " % f " / SK\#171 ; S Hlt\amp ; \amp ; iSfSS III V ; \#171 ; .
i mgr 1 \#166 ; ^aae. .
" '\#166 ; ^ '** " .
gj V Vy* ; ^Ir ' ' is 4^ '#l !
$ ''V\lt ; " ^ - '\#166 ; , V PM^sa# :J|Jlilj|wg : ^SSr lUi Vni\#174 ; ' H fil ; * Roy .
Soc. Proc. BVol/ .7D , PL.3 .
fl 1$.y \\ \#165 ; %fc ; ' :K *4 * .\#166 ; 'jps\gt ; ' ' v*'V .
'9^ life ?
'*W_-.i*'C mwB S is .
, .
M \vut : 'x mlfr y\M\n t. ; ' s 1\amp ; raj pf'|pi ''^WmW a. fsp^ %|:l| ; .
| ifMMWii IfWWwm Vc 6 .
IK ^ ' -- V^# ^ C. CD .
del .
Hue .th Lithf London 1906 .
] Life-history of Adelea ovata , Aim .
\#163 ; AH figures are drawn from permanent preparations stained with hsematoxylin .
Drawings made under a 3-mm .
apochromatic objective ( Zeiss ) with compensating-ocular 12.1 Plate 2 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Microgametocyte associating with macrogametocyte ( lying free in gut ) .
Karyo-some of microgametocyte has partially broken up to form a chromidial net .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; In this figure the chromidial net is seen distributed throughout the whole of the microgam etocyte .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; The chromidial net of the microgametocyte has become gathered together into a dumbbell-shaped network .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Stage in formation of four nuclei .
The developing nuclei are still connected with the chromidial net .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; The four nuclei are showing signs of becoming separated as star-shaped masses of chromatin .
Part of the network is still visible .
Plate 3 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Association of two mfbrogametocytes with a single macrogametocyte .
A chromidial net is seen in both the former .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Association of two microgametocytes ( each containing four characteristic starshaped nuclei ) with one macrogametocyte .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Two microgametocytes associating with one macrogametocyte .
In one , four nearly ripe microgametes are seen ; in the other , a dumbbell-shaped network is present .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Four mature male gametes formed .
A chromatic spindle is seen in the macrogamete .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Macroschizont , the nuclei in the form of networks .
Numerous chromatin particles are scattered through the cytoplasm .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Group of macromerozoites with nuclei in a chromidial condition .

