]\gt ; W. Wheatston ) of Physics .
of l.ondon , .states .
of liberated electrons , of the light , and 1/ is easures } ' for an electron to the hose aluc i of the material under tion .
lirsl by J. deduction tho discrete qunIl tever , I succeededt in it from Plauck 's radiation formula : that it evidently a wider basis than the restricted and doubtful hypothesis used by On the experimental sidc the evidencc1 } ealb conflicting , but I a tht of in collaboration Dr. K. T. omplon , the Gion rCllled tho photo-electric behaviour in the visible and in the -violet , for the odinln , lunulium , zillC , tin , LIld platinum as as it eonld determine ed. peri n also showed that the ) in alues of th constants diffcrcltt metals were connected with the contact potentials by the relation .
( 2 ) This ( both ) direct oaHl.nergy u thu enlitlc , and by .
deterluining by ho obvious relation .
( 3 ) these oxpcrimonlH arbed mprobable equation 1 ) would turn out to be correct , on ccount of the very grave objcctions to tho fonm of ( lllantu]n theory on it to time been based } tein .
Aftcr making the ents r folt tlJat there AnlL d. Physik , ' vol. 1 ) . .
'vol .
} , p. 146 ( 1912 ) ; ' ) .
' vol. .
783 ( 1912 ) ; .
Mag vol. 24 , p. 676 .
O. W. chardsou .
was easonable doubt of its entire validity .
I confess that this view not been shared by all the more recenlt writers on the subject .
ever , il has been conhruled by the independent expeliments of and by the very critical work of Millikan , who has shown that the equation can be used to deterlnine the valne of with very reat , there can at the present time be no duubt of its validity .
In reseal'cllcs of Sadler , Beatty , WhiddingGon Mobele taken together , ve show1l that the nexgy of rons ]ated by of ellcy is very closely represented by .
( 4 ) This olation is evideIltly nsislent with ( 1 ) , since the electrolls with the velocity will come from the more superficial parts of the tonl , and for such is ible in comparison with in the case of -rays .
fact that ( 4 ) represent the experimental results with sufficient accuracy cannot , therefore , ) an argument against equation ( 1 ) being the complete expression of the facts in this case .
The study of the generation of -rays by the impact of electrons of various has shown that equation ( 4 ) , and in all probability equation ( 1 ) , operates both ways ; that is to , there is an upper limit to the frequency of the radiation ooenerated by the impact of electronh with which is given by ( 1 ) .
This can be deduced from the earlier experiments of } and and has been confirmed by the recent accurale work of Duane and Hunt .
SS .
There is evidence that the same condition overns the excitation of ordinary spectral lines by means of electron impacts of definite velocity , but in this case secondary complications arise which make the phenomena lesH easy to disentangle .
The foregoing ncnts and faCtS that equation ( 1 ) represents a condition possessing a very high ofenerality .
It cvidently embraces the whole ganlut of the adiation scale in its ction with every type of .
So , it has only been deulons ] atecl as condition .
That is to is snbjected clion of adiation of 'Phil .
rans .
, vol. , p. 205 .
'Phys .
ltev .
vol. 7 , pp. 18 , 355 ( 1916 ) .
'Phil .
Mag vol. 19 , p. 337 ( 1910 ) .
S 'Phil .
Mag vol. 20 , p. 320 ( 1910 ) .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 86 , pp. 360 , ( 1912 ) .
'Phil .
ag vol. 27 , p. 703 ( 1914 ) .
dson , ' Electron Theory of Matter , ' Chap. XIX .
' 1914 edition , p. 124 . .
Proc , vol. , p. 323 ( 1911 ) .
Phys. ' vol. 6 , p. 166 ( 1915 ) .
The Actio of frequency , no electron evellcquires t total , kinetic and potential , in excess of .
On the other hand , there is nothing in referred to above wluch be view that equation ( 1 ) ) ) ) ' the tronsfelence of eelI radiation the electrons contained in } atter , and that it is not luere confined ' in such .
The ) necessarily el to solid uces , illld , befol an electron ) stance , il uusl .
as a rule , lose a deal of its in tolnic ncoltnter far as the been lysed , are capable of they have ) eell found 10 tbc view hat in of electronb b all on ] reversibility of the } il is a tion , nut an inequalit the ) the the tracks the nitted e in , indicate that for the } } nunl ) definite lengths rather ) to nn } ' limit .
rgunlents n lead us encc .
of lmultiples , but the of facts uder consideration rded no eviden .
existence present .
The ) it is field , points to the ) Jlion and enlission tiolJ .
in so it is concomitant uission or ) lectl 0 is to ith the .
of en from the to atorial form , place prinunrilv whole quanla .
In the Bakorian Lecturo for 1916 } ' ddnced data on the elcrtro emission ally associated with the uissiolJ of the series of tluolescent , frotl which conclude .
) the abhOl'ption of radiation { eluission } ; is to wholo .
but may take } ) in amounts ' continuously one quantum and two .
In is uo of absorption of -radiation in wholc : conditions equuntly s to imation to this that } ) and of lUtJrS espocially by heavy .
toms , is complex ) ) menon , and it thaG the new wheIl c ) ) sidered critically , so far lending support to the view that absorption of -radiation takes continuously , and in amounts may by any fraction of wholc to be in of the contrary hypothesis . .
Proc .
W. Broadly of Olnp y by is to he ratio tho ) the secondary fluurescent that of the ciectrollic .
radiation for a given of primary .
The method the of the of the soft , etc. , radiations in llte{Hured electronic radiant en frequcl)cies of the rescent K , etc. , rays he finds approximate]y that the enelgy of IIuorcscent radiation is to the accompyi , elccCroni and , fluorescent adiations these ions r whole the , this is to that he ) of fluorescen radiation is to the bsorbe as .
Whcn there is one liatioJl emitted also one eleclron enlitte every two radiation bsorl ) .
When tbere , in the limit , one quantum of lluorescent radiation also one emitted for every quantum of ) rimary { bsorbed radiation .
mediafe values of one of fluorcscenl radiation and 01IC are as a conseqnen of the absorption of lnouuts of radiation increase ously frolll one to two quanta according lo the frequency of the ] ) rimaly radiation .
It also itssunled , ou .
to insufficicnt , of the radiation equal to ono tioIJ .
The .
that there is one electron emitted each of fluorescent radiation emitted rests damentally on this assumption .
lt has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that ximum onel'gy of the electrons in question is equal to , and it is not unreasonable to } ) that this nitudc .
will correspond closely the actual value of the energy of un rroup of ectrons on emission , in accordance with the tment o. On the hand , it to , as will be below , on account the of omona of -ray there will be other tClroups of cloctrol for which the in oeneral value vcen l zero .
The experiments hitherto made on this point have been directed to the detel.mination of the of the whole group of electrons , and would not expected to detect the simultaneous } ) resence of groups having a less of maximum energy than that value .
If these iticisms are correct , terpretation of his results is open to question , and they held to that absorption of takes place continuously .
In evcnt could hardly bo held to ) hc thesis , these it were Act ion of established that the alternative othesis for them .
Having due regard to our of -ray , let th consider we should ect on the ssUllption bsorl)Cion takes ) lacc j whole quanta , and hat tho mental 1 of nlat cr expressed by equation ( 1 ) .
We know from researcbes the emission t'\fnof ; g fluorescelll X is counecled absorption of thu primary rays , it follows frol1t } .
H. ] , \ldquo ; oxperimcnls thal increased absorption , ) emission , docs set in umtil frequency equal to of chorteHl I beun obtained .
quently , as has been pointed uut I. .I .
Tlloms{ ) usst l hrst process in the of radiation the removal an electlou to a oinC of .
outside atom , and the arious K lines result from the ] ] ) in nnel'lutst by electrons from } ion$ ings .
strongly snpport the view nnerluosl , is hich i$ concerned in he emission the ) his } ) ] rove to bu well founded it would seem to look ' the more ) )tions , recently I be toms of lo atomic } , in of clcct ons the nucleus lh atom .
] If only of a quant , of adiation by cclron I equation ( 1 ) this ] ) to electron having cner The is only losl for ) during ) } of hc ring again , it 1 .
the ussible .
that ) ] .
bc rted in ) diatiuns of or iutu which are unable to give rise to ) .
I that such .
would bc lost so ' Phil. vol. 29 , ) see ) .
Ik ) ) ( 1916 ) .
' Phil. Mag vol. 23 , ( 1912 ) .
Phil. Mag vol. 26 , p. 1.(1913 ) ; , ] , .
) ) ) .
Verh . .
eutsch .
ybik .
Ocs vol. 16 , p. 963 ( 1914 ) .
Prof. O. W. ichardson .
as ionisatiou experiments conoerned .
To take account of this possibility quantity been included ( 5 ) .
lt is to be expected that the lost en ill ) , ) ) that will be relatively Iobt i in of .
The of , etc. , in nndersCood us valtles , beino averaged ; to ( occurrence of the ) ocesses corresponding lo elmissio of the , lines .
According to the view taken , Kosscl .
to 1oe in ' accord with the known facts , considering restoration ) the normal condition of any particular which has lost electron , ono or more of the various frequencies , etc bc absunl .
Thus , electron jumps to the ring from the next but tJne we shall .
a no emission but } nissions of equency ( the emissions , and so .
It is erod that in experiments on brominc the and diations on account of their ] cannot be distinguished from leclronic r so is added to the measure electronic If tho oing uuly to be taken account of , we old I , on the vio tlevelopod above , for quantum of primary of in other forms : A. ( 1 ) of of true electronic radiatioli , / , } ( 3 ) of pparont eadiation , / , ( 4 ) Lost in of the oportion otbsorbed energy reappears as ( nergy of electronic adiatio is cater t is indicated by the scheme A. Without precisely how emission of ronio radiation comes about , we that it lllust occur the emission of the IC fluorescent radiation is to eb as of the primary radiation jhes a with or close to that of the ray as lesults indicate .
* , of radiation of this frequency , represents Vebster , : .
Rev vol. careful tionh of radiation from / rhodium allticathode , concludos special absorption commences at the froqucnc of the ray , and quotes having made } tions lybdenum .
Tho } of electrons to excito tho the some this The Photo-electric of the work done b ) .
an electron in lloviuo a position in outer ring ( probably the outermost ring ) to an unoccupied position in the innermost ( K ) .
But the normal atom contains one electron more than that jufit nsidered , the work to remove an electron the positionl in normal to the position will , , be greater than difference will be there a by the trostatic repulsion of the electrons in the outer ] will tend to prevent the electrons from a displaceluent to the outer positions such as is !
necessary antecedent to the emission of { luorescent radiation .
difficulties disappear if an outer electron is first relnoved , so that , on thes , it is to be anticipated that at the limiting frequency each quantuul of fluorescenC radiation libel.ated will be Janie by the emission of one electl .
Olt from the outer layers .
osed the for this liberated electron the sorptio of one , of radiation .
Wheu ] ) vilh fi by diatio electron is with tho energy to escape lrum so that it is not to bc that the emission of a in this case will bc ttff ) by thu absence 01 1 ] electron fro the Sltr this special cmission of electronic radiation should not ocour ) very ' intermediate values of it is to be it will continuously from the value of one electron for each of cent emission the critical frequency to zero when becomes infinite .
An ternaliye statement of ) the position , is possibly only a recapitulation of the experimental , is to say that , in with the intense absorption of the primary rays by electruns in the interior the , which sets in as soon as exceeds critical frequency , there a ecial absorption of in the terior layers .
The increased dellcy to absorb in the exterior layers may be caused ) ility , arising { hc presence ot t.ho 1 :mounts of sorbed or ' configuration suitable tion in the interior layers .
In any cveut , the elnission of such elec from tho outer layers is a condition which alone admits of the liberation of electrons at the limiting frequency .
With increasing frequency , its influence becomes less and less important .
On the view just developed , there will bsociatod with fluorescent radiation emitted an emission on the average of electrons from the outer layers of the atom .
The value of will increase from zero for to the value nnity falls to the critical frequency .
Tho Pruf .
Richardson .
tergy from the prinlary radiation by t ; hese electrons ivc $ rise to the emission of electrons , each with .
a is the work for these electrons to escape loln .
the return of the atotu to the normal con dition , reappca ] as of soft fluorescent tions snch as , etc. , radiations , on the depth within from which ] been jected , be the with , possibly , diation of too to onisation , hich will bc lost so the ttHnrcmen t are , an ] may be represented by under consideration .
the of radiations are hat of pnrely ectronic lion , that , ) are concerned , the radiation in ( 1 ) of dialic ll and and tion ( 4 ) On , tl osiLion will be given by the in logether , and the measured rgics , do dihl i between true ronic Cllat , arising J'ron diations , as these are not ) the ) mouts , will be in the proportion of the numbers given in t , l elne ( C. from prir of radiation I be rved t relation belween and is more complex that between on account of the possible effect of the lost energy having to bc taken into consideration .
From the Table iven b } ' Bal.kla un of Bakerian Lecture for it appears that the lost energy ] ) bibly exeeed cent. of the total absorbed in the itiug frequency , , the oltta are too scanty and to to this matter .
For this Photo-electric Are , tion of leaHOU , in testing the application of the theory to experimental I shall keep to the simpler relation between and As regards the function all that we are entitled to expect , so far , is that it will be a function of , involving depending on the structure of the particular atom concerned , which the value zero as approach infinity and which approaches the unity approaches the value the critical frequency fun ction atisfying these conditions ' where , 1 , , the coefficients , au oonstant proper fraction 01 unity .
} , relations ) we and ( 8 ) and at the critical vRltlP , The values of be Values of in this in , : . . . .
0 .
can find no record of the } bromine vino .
been measured ; but Friman*ords line for cm .
Using Kossel 's relation Jssume m a sufficient tion ( 10 ) and , putting gives nnd ) Phil. , p. 497 ( 1916 ) .
Prof. O. .
Richardson .
This in 1 , third of the preceding es against , it appears that they cau represented , if not with olute accuracy , at any rate to within the degree of of the measurements , by a single term of ( 6 ) , , the term for which ] he index ] .
After the coefficient it appears that .
( 12 ) itnl-ing in ) .
( 13 ) The of difl ential coefficient moasured from the curve on p. 336 of Barkla 's paper is , which agrees satisfactorily with ( 13 ) .
The complete expression for the fraction of the absorbed radiation which is transforrned into fluorescent radiation of the eries is thus : .
( 14 ) The ahlefi c from t , his are gi in the fourth column of the table : comparison the observed values of are shown iu the fifth column .
The next column shows the difference of these numbers expressed a percentage of the observed value .
In every case the agreement is within the probable limits of the errors of measurement and is best for the shorter waves , where the measurements are admittedly most accurate .
The last c.olumn gives the percentage error rivell by the corresponding numbers which Barkla calculates from his formula in column III of Table VIII on p. 345 of his paper .
will be seen that this formula gives a worse agreement in every single instance , and I suspect that the disagreement exceeds the probable t , rrors of measurement in the case of the shorter waves .
Moreover , all the viations are in the same direction , and are greatest for the shorter waves , for the experiments nlost accurate .
It will be that the formula ( 14 ) ] contains one arbitrary constant , the constants and by the X-ray spectrum of the atom .
If , the experiments to prove , the emission of fluorescent is up with the simultaneous emission of electrous positions neal t ) surface of the atom , it is difficult to how the complete expression for void c one con stant ) on configuration of the eloctrons in the atom , in addition to } constants , which .
is shown ) snccess of Bohr ' , s theory , ulerely involve energy rel tions .
Another view the , which could be to oive expressions having ) to thost1 , would be to supI ) radiation enerated 1 displaeement of electron to the central ions ( atom is liable to special ption by the of the in which it is generated .
) would naturally expect absorption to be the rays th tlrhood o , and to diminish to inity .
Howevcl\ldquo ; I feel that this vic an element of tificiality it is to introduce into the interpretation ) ) , unless their more exaot ation m it necessary .
As ( ; ards the ) reci sOtlnd , it does not seem wise to attempt to push the interpretation of this too .
The expression iven certainly covers the ) numbers to within the limits of experimental error , it not ' them actly , and it is possible that more precise experimentnl of the formula would lead to a function which , whilst it would to very closely with the expression folUld over the of data now ayailable , have a different lnathematical form consequently be ) able of a different physical interpretation .
The lnain con clusions 10 ) drawn this ) be ( 1 ) ratio the cmitted in of secondary X-radiati .
energy ] of radiation ( wave-length ) absorbed is found .
in the case 01 , to be expressed t , o within the degree of accuracy the observations by ) where is the wave-length of the adiations , and is -length of the radiation .
( 2 ) The implies , rate , ) interpreted as fo Action imply , the emission of one electron for every quantum of primary radiation absorbed .
it likewise iles , for the emission of each quantum radiation , the of one quantum of primary radiation when , of two quanta of primary radiation when , the limiting frequency hreshold frequency .
excitation , and of amounts of between one and two quanta .
exciting radiations of intermediate as form ){ ) luced , and ve been riven a explanation , on the l1ypothe , that the nary radiation is :bsorb in { loes not ) that the fact , under consid ) tion br to support conlral hypothesis .
( , 1918.\mdash ; To these considerations may bc added argurnenl ated , although perhaps insutficiently sised , in the prcliminary parc of this paper , and to which I have for timo very hold be attached .
It will be bsorved that , in the interpretation of the phenomena under discussion , both and as Jivcn by arkla , and , in fact , in any nable interpretation of such , the quantity , where is the of exciting , plays a conspicuous part .
Now , the quantity othin to do with the particular kind of matter with which the radiation it is a quantity whose value is determined the radiation alon .
It that the quantum relation is dominated by in the tics of radiation , although it may be that the limitations imposed by such structure or properties are inoperative in to certain ctions tter , snch as absorption or eIniqsion , the frequency of the tion may be ] tered .
]

