]\gt ; Preliminary Note on a New Method of suring directly the Double-refraction in Strained Glass .
By L. N. G. FILON , , D.Sc .
, Fellow and of Universily College , London .
( Communicated by Professor F. T. Trouton , F.R.S. Received May 31 , \mdash ; Read June 20 , 1907 .
) In seneral the methods employed for observing the double-refraction in strained glass depend on the use of crossed Nic , ols , and are similar in principle to those used for observing the colours of crystalline plates .
So as the between the two indices of refraction is concerned , a method described by the author*allows of continuous observation of the double-refraction throughout the spectrum .
But with to the absolute change in the refractive index of either of the two polarised rays , into which light passing through the strained glass is broken up , the only method hitherto known for detelmining it is the one employed by Kerr and by .
This requires the use of homogeneous light , and of some form or other of interferometer .
Very difficult and delicate adjustments are necessary , and , moreover , the method is not suited to observations extending continuously throughout the spectrum .
The following method is free from these objections , and depends upon an effect which appears interesting in itself .
Consider a horizontal beam of parallel homogeneous light incident normally upon bhe face AD of a rectangular glass slab of which ABCD represents the cross-section .
The slab is under flexure in a vertical plane perpendicular to the direction of the incident light .
Let -optical coefficient for the ray polarised in the plane of the cross-section , and for light of the given .
Then if bending Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proceedings , ' vol. 12 , p. 55 , et seq. , and ' Roy .
Soc. , vol 79 , pp. 200\mdash ; 202 .
'Phil .
Mag October , 1888 .
'Ann . .
Phys 1902 .
New Method oj Measuring directly action .
441 moment , moment of inertia of the cross-section about the " " neutral axis\ldquo ; MN , thickness of slab , the retardation of a ray passing through at a distance from the neutral axis is Thus the points at which the disturbance is in the same phase , instead of lying upon a line perpendicular to MN , lie upon a line inclined to at an Such a slab under flexure will therefore deflect the -front like a It will do the same , only to a different extent , to the wave rised in the perpendicular direction .
Thus if we analyse such a beam by means of a , the spectrum lines all appear doubled , the two components being oppositely polarised .
If be the of incidence on the the of ction of the wave of length , we have being the number of lines per unit breadth of the .
Whence Therefore the shifts of the spectrum line corresponding to wave-length due to the effect of strain on the two oppositely polarised rays , are By measurin these shifts , and therefore can be found .
Hence the absolute changes in the two indices of refraction can be calculated , and this not only for one kind of light , but for as many kinds at once as are lines visible in the spectrum under observation .
A correction has to be introduced on account of the fact that the Iass slab , owing to lateral expansion under longibudinal pressure and contraction under tension , loses its fular shape and becomes a prism of very small angle .
This causes an additional deflection of the wave-front after the glass .
This correction may be computed from the elastic constants of the glass , which have then to be determined , or it may be eliminated by slab in a fluid whose refractiye index is equal to that of the glass .
Actual experiment with a borosilicate glass , the total thickness traversed being 6 cm .
and the diHerence of relative retardation per centimetre about 10 wave-lengths for sodium , showed the doubling most clearly .
The grating used was a reflection grating of 14,000 lines to the inch , and 442 Mr. P. D. Innes .
On the Vdocity of the [ June 13 , with the magnification employed the lines were widely separated .
The definition of the lines was not sensibly impaired by the thickness of glass traversed , and remained good when the load was applied .
The maximum load which could be applied with safety separated the two components of either or by an amount approximately equal to the original distance between the sodium lines , so that one component of was coincident with the other component of On the Velociiy of the Cathode ticles emitted by under the Influence of Rontgen Rays , and its on the Theory of Atomic Dismtegration .
By P. D. INNES , M.A. , , 1851 Exhibition Scholar of the University of Edinburgh ; College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 13 , \mdash ; Read June 27 , 1907 .
) The numerous theoretical and experimental investigations during the past few years of J. J. Thomson , Rutherford , Becquerel , and others on the radio-active substances have demonstrated conclusively that the only theory which can satisfactorily account for the phenomena observed is that of atomic disintegration , a process which is apparently going on in several , if not in all , of the elements .
This process , however , seems to be entirely spontaneous , to depend only on the special substance under investigation , and to be outside the control of any external influence brought to bear upon it .
Immense labour has been expended on experiments involving the utmost variation in the temperature and in the chemical and physical conditions of the elements , but all to no purpose so far as influencing the rate of atomic disintegration is concerned .
As far as is known at present , no variation in the output of energy has been detected .
There are , it is true , results by Curie and Danne , more recently by Makower , which seem to show an effect of temperature on radium emanation .
These results are not , however , confirmed by Bronson in his experiments on the same subject , so that no definite conclusion can yet be reached on this point .
Obviously , it would be of immense interest and irnportance , not only from the scientific point of view , but also from the technical and commercial standpoint , if some method could be devised of stimulating or retarding at 'Comptes Bendus , ' vol. 138 , 1904 , p. 748 .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 77 , 1906 , p. 241 .
'Amer .
Jour .
Sc 1905 , p. 60 , and ' Phil. Mag [ 6 ] , vol. 11 , 1906 , p. 143 .

