'AOWp`OfrTa , No. II.-On the Epipelic Dispersion of Light , being a Supplement to a paper entitled , " On a Case of Superficial Colour presented by a homogeneous liquid internally colourless .
" By Sir J. F. W. HERSCHEL , Bart. , K.I. , F.R.S. , Sc. Received March 6 , -Read April 3 , 1845 .
IN reasoning on the peculiar coloured dispersion operated on a portion of a beam of white light intromitted into a solution of sulphate of quinine , it occurred to me as a stubject well worthy of inquiry whether the rays so selected for dispersion and thus singularly separated from the rest , were distinguished by any other peculiarity ; whether in effect an analsis of the incident light into two distinct species qualitatively different had been performed , or merely a simple subdivision , such as takes place , for instance , in partial reflexion , as in the phenomena of the colours of thin plates .
Another interesting subject of inquiry presents itself in the laws which regulate this singular mode of dispersion itself , which , for brevity , I shall venture to call ( at least provisionally ) epip lic , from ertroX,1 ) a surface , the seat of the dispersion being at or very near the intromitting surface .
As regards the question of analysis , two modes of examination present themselves , viz. either , -l , by subjecting the dispersed portion of the light to experiment , ol , 2 , the residual portion , which , having escaped dispersion ; preserves the unity of its direction ; and on that account , as well as by reason of its vastly superior intensity , offers itself more readily to experimental inquiry .
The colour of the dispersed portion being blue , that of the residual beam ought , of course , to verge towards orange .
But owing to the large excess of undecomposed white light present , this tendency is inappreciable ; and the regularly transmitted beam is not to be distinguished by the eye from white light .
Another reason is , that some portion of the dispersed necessarily mingles with the regularly transmitted beam , the medium being equally permeable to both ; so that in viewing an extensive white surface ( the cloudy sky for instance , or a piece of white paper ) , the regularly transmitted ray reaching the eye in any given direction , that is , from any one point in the luminous surface , has , intermingled with it , a dispersed ray from every other point of that surface , the totality of which goes to restore to it some material portion of the blue light which it lost by dispersion at its intromission .
In the ordinary production of colour in liquids by absorption of the complementary tint , the smallest preference of one over the other coloured rays may be magnified and brought into evidence as a cause of coloration by increasing the thickness of the transmitting medium , or by passing the light successively through u 2 many vessels filled with it .
Accordingly it might be supposed that by passing the same incident beam successively through many such dispersive surfaces , the whole of the blue rays would at length be separate( from it , and an orange , or red residual beam be left .
But this is not the case , the reason of which is to be found in a very remarkable peculiarity in the transmitted light , which may be thus announced .
An epipolized beam of light ( meaning thereby a beam which has been once transmitted through a quiniferous solution and undergone its dispersing action ) is incapable offurther undergoing epipolic dispersion .
In proof of this , the following experiments may be adduced .
Exp. 1 .
A glass jar being filled with a quiniferous solution* , a piece of plate-glass was immersed in it verltically , so as to be entirely covered and to prlesent one face directly to the incident light .
In this situation , when viewed by an eye almost perpendicularly over it , so as to graze either surface very obliquely , neither the anterior nor posterior face showed the slightest trace of epipolic colour .
Now the light , at its egress from the immersed glass , entered the liquid under precisely the same circumstances as that which , when traversing the anterior surface of the glass jar , underwent epipolic dispersion on first entering the liquid .
It had therefore lost a property which it originally possessed , and could not therefore be considered , qualitatively , the same light .
Exp. 2 .
The epipolic tint is developed only on the surface of incidence .
When the solution is exposed to light in a glass vessel , the posterior surface , whether viewed internally or externally , is quite colourless .
Here again , since ingress and egress into and out of a mediumn are , optically speaking , convertible , a qualitative analysis at the surface of incidence would appear to be indicated .
Exp. 3 .
A test cylinder filled to the height of two or three inrches with the solution was set upright on black velvet , its bottom being also shaded to the depth of half an inch ( to prevent reflected light from the bottom from reaching the eye ) .
The epipolic tint being now fully developed , a hollow parallelopiped of plate glass , filled with the same solution , was interposed between the test cylinder and the incident light , side light being at the same time obsti'ucted by screens duly placed .
Immediately the epipolic colour in the interior of the cylinder vanished altogether .
Thie transmitting vessel was now emiptied of its contents and filled with pure water , from which its former contents were in no way distinguishable by an eye situated behind it .
Being then replaced as before , so as to intercept the light incident on the test cylinder , the epipolic colour was produced , exactly as if nothing had been interposed ; a trifling difference of intensity only excepted , which arose from the glass used not being wholly devoid of colour .
Exp. 4 .
This experiment was varied so as to present a result disengaged from this slight6source of uncertainty , and perfectly decisive .
A cylindrical jar was coated externally with black paper round three-fourths of its circumference , as was also its bottom , and a ring of the same paper was carried round the cylinder at the bottom so as to cut off light from being internally reflected on its base .
In it was set upright a test cylinder of the solution , and the jar was then filled with pure water rising considerably above the solution in the cylinder .
When exposed to light as usual , the epipolic tint was finely seen .
But on emptying out the water , and introducing in its stead an equal quantity of the quiniferous solution , the tint in question was completely destroyed , whether the surface of the cylinder was viewed from within or from without , proving evidently that no rays susceptible of epipolic dispersion had reached its surface .
This result was rendered the more remarkable by an effect of contrast .
The external , upper portion of the cylinder , above its liquid contents , but below the level of the liquid in the jar , reflected to the eye ( or rather the air within it reflected ) a pretty strong blue gleam , being no other than the epipolically dispersed light of the anterior surface of the liquid in the jar ; while all below ( being glass in contact with the liquid on both sides and so deprived of reflective power on both surfaces ) was coinpletely dark and almost invisible .
When the interior test cylinder was sloped backwards from the incident light at an angle of about 70 ?
to the horizon , a beautiful and instructive feature was developed .
In this situation of things , the interior liquid being as usual the quinine solution , and the exterior pure water ; to an eye perpendicularly over the surface , the whole anterior portion of the cylinder from below upwards to the surface of the interior liquid , appeared coated as it were internally with a most delicate and beautiful blue film of extreme tenuity and perfect transparency , presenting a singular ghost-like appearance , easier produced than described .
This being seen through the cylinder , by an eye situated externally to its prolongation , affords a proof that the epipolic dispersion takes place in all directions : but except in this mode of viewing it the rays dispersed outwards cannot reach the eye , or not in abundance ( for which a very oblique incidence is required ) , being at such an incidence internally and totally reflected by the outer surface of the glass .
To see this to advantage an eye-tube internally blackened should be used to guard the eye from extraneous light .
Such a tube indeed is generally advantageous in all these experiments .
If , instead of water , the test cylinder be plunged into a solution of quinine , all else remaining as before , the blue film in question totally disappears .
I tried a great many other liquids , all in fact which I had at hand in sufficient quantity and colourless , or but little coloured , in hopes of discovering something which might elucidate the subject .
Strong alcohol , solution of cortosive sublimate , ammonia , &amp;c. acted as water ; allowing the blue film to be seen externally at a perpendicular incidence of the visual ray to the surface of the liquid .
With strong sulphuric acid , and with mnuriate of lime so concentrated as to be syrupy , this was not possible , but the film became visible , and of its ftull intensity , on moving the eye forward ( i. e. towards the incident light ) .
When sulphate of manganese was used , its delicate pale rose-colour no way prevented a fine exhibition of the blue film ( a point to which I shall have occasion to revert ) .
On the other hand , the lemon yellow-colour of nitrate of uranium ( a much fuiller tint ) materially enfeebled , thougth it did not prevent the formation of the film .
This last effect did however appear to be produced by two liquids , viz. pyroxylic spirit in a small degree , and oil of turpentitie in a much greater ; the effect in this case being very obviously much more than could justly be attributed to a trifling tinge of yellow in the oil ( which was not fiesh ) , as I satisfied myself by a comparative experiment with water purposely coloured to a similar tint of greater intensity .
Neither of these liquids however was found on trial in the test cylinder , or othelrwise , to possess in the smallest degree the property of epipolic dispersion ; nor have I found any other liquid which does so .
Exp. 5 .
Among solids the only one I am acquainted with possessed of a similar property , is the green fluor of Alston Moot , which exhibits by superficial dispersion a fine deep blue colour , very different from the in !
herent or absorptive colour of the mineral .
This is strictly an epipolic tint , as the following experiment will show , and at the same time affords another , and not a little striking confiirmation of the general proposition announced in p. 148 .
I should premise that to see the epipolic colour of the fluor in perfection , it must be laid on black velvet , or the reflexion of lighit from its posterior surfaces must be destroyed by roughening and coating them with black sealing-wax .
In this state , if exposed to daylight at a windowr , ant viewed through a blackened eye-tube , it is seen not as a green , but as a fine deep blue crystal .
If a piece of fluor so prepared be placed in water in a glass standing orn black velvet , the bluie epipolic colour is seen greatly heightened .
But if the water be exchianged for a solution of quiinine , this colour is completely destroyed and the surface appears simply b lack .
To make the experiment successfully , the greatest care must be taken to cut off all lateral or reflected light .
The arrangement I adopted was , to coat a fluor as above described , and fastening it with black sealing-wax to a wire , to lower it into the coated jar described in Exp. 4 , filled alternately with a solution of quinine and with pure water .
Using the eye-tube for further precaution , the destruction of the epipolic tint by the solution was quite as complete as if instead of the fluor a test glass full of the quiniferous solution had been used .
It would certainly appear from'these experiments that the residual beam after undergoing epipolic dispersion had lost some constituent portion , or otherwise undergone some qualitative modification which might be considered as rendering it specifically different from the incident beam .
It cannot be the mere tinge of colour which the loss of so small a portion of blte light has given to it .
There is still plenty of blue light left , and the exlpeimrent on sulphate of manganese proves that a mere absorption of a much larger proportion of the blue rays has not the same effect* Moreover the portion of light dispersed traverses the solution of quinine with perfect facility , proving that no peculiar absorptive power is exercised by that medium on these rays ; nor indeed would the separation of such rays by dispersion at the surface in any way tinge the medium itself with a complementary tint , but only the residual beam .
I come now to the examination of the dispersed portion of the light .
As just remarked , when once dispersed it is freely transmitted .
The epipolic colour is seen as well , in a long test-cylinder filled with the solution , at the bottom of the tube as at the top , when viewed by an eye situated in its axis , supposed vertical .
If all light be cut off from the tube by a sheet of black papei rolled round it , except from the lowest inch of its length , that inch is seen to gleam with quite as intense a colour as when the uppermost inch only is so exposed .
I have already had occasion to remark that the epipolic tint is a compound one .
To obtain a pure ray for prismatic analysis , a cylindrical glass jar with perpendicular sides was partly filled with the quiniferous liquid and placed in a strong light , the whole anterior side being coated with black paper rising somewhat above the level of the liquid .
The eye was then placed in such a position , below that level , that the visual ray proceeding from it would suffer total reflexion at the under surface .
For comparison , a similar vessel of water , similarly shaded , was placed beside it .
The surface of this , so viewed from below , was of course perfectly black , no ray from above being able so to penetrate it as to reach the eye .
Not so the quiniferous solution .
In this the under surface was wholly visible , of a fine blue colour , considerably deeper in tint than in the ordinary mode of viewing it , though not of so rich and saturated acharacter as the epipolic blue of the fluor .
It was , however , much more luminous , and being thus comrpletely purified from all possible admixture of regularly refracted or reflected light , was well-adapted for prismatic analysis .
By raising the eye exactly to the horizontal level of the surftce of the liquid , the whole of that surface became of course foreshortened into a narrow blue line .
And in this situation it became perfectly evident that this line was not a mere elongated ellipse , the perspective representation of the circular area of the surface , but a very narrow parallelogram , having a breadth of about a fiftieth of an inch , of a vivid and nearly uniform blue colour over its whole breadth .
This proves that the epipolic dispersion takes place within the liquid , and almost wholly within a distance not exceeding one-fiftieth of an inch from the surface .
I say almost wholly ; for when a sunbeam was directed downwards on the surface , by total reflexion from the base of a prism , a feeble blue gleam was observed to extend downwards below this vivid 151 line to nearly half an inch from the surface , thus leaving it doubtful whether some small amount of dispersion may not be effected in the interior of the medium at appreciable depths .
The narrow blue line above described was viewed through a Fraunhofer flint prism .
The spectrum was deficient at the red end by the totality of the purer and less refiangible red , nearly the whole orange , and all the yellow .
A rich and broad band of fine green light slightly fringed with red on the less refrangible side , passed suddenly , on the more refrangible , to a copious indigo and violet without any intermediately graduating blue .
Either from want of sufficient brightness , or from some other cause , no black lines were seen ; as far as mere illumination went , the spectrum developed appeared continuous .
It appears from this that no one prismatic ray in particular is selected for epipolic dispersion , but that a certain small per-centage of rays extending over a great range of refrangibility are subject to be so affected , the less refrangible extlerne being however wholly excluded , as well as the majority of all below a mean refrangibility .
The epipolic colour is more intense the more oblique the visual ray is to the dispersing surface .
This , which would be inexplicable on the supposition of the dispersion being effected rigorously at the geometrical surface of the medium , is a necessary consequence of its taking place within a superficial stratumrn of very small , but appreciable thickness , or according to a law of intensity decreasing with great rapidity as the depth within the medium increases .
It has been already shown that the dispersion is not confined to the interior of the liquid , but that a large portion of the dispersed light is directed outwards , Exp. 4 .
The more oblique portions of this ( which are also the more intense ) require , as is there shown , peculiar management to render them visible .
Those whose inclination to the dispersive surface is greater , may also be subjected to ocular inspection , by carefully destroying all regularly reflected or accidental light .
Thus , if on a surface of black paper two blots be made , the one of water , the other of a solution of quinine , and if these be laid before a window and viewed through a blackened tube in any direction but that of regular reflexion , the water will appear perfectly black , the quinine feebly blue .
But however oblique to the surface the visual ray may be in this case , no great accession of intensity takes place in the epipolic tint , for this obvious reason , that the dispersing stratum being within the mediuim , no lray disperlsed by it can penetrate the sir face , which has not an inclination thereto exceeding 410 22 ' , at which angle , therefore , it must cut the stratum , and cannot therefore traverse any great extent of it bodily .
Hence , moreover , on the other hand , the internally dispersed light , at great obliquities to the surface ( supposed in contact with air ) , will be reinforced by all that portion which would have penetrated the surlface and gone into the air but for the law of total reflexion ; all the dispersed rays , that is to say , whose inclination to the surface is less ttan 41 ? ?
22 ' .
This consideration helps to explain the great comparative intensity which the disperlsed beam possesses under such circumstances .
152 As it has been clearly shown that a beam of white light from which certain rays have been separated by epipolic dispersion is no longer susceptible of producing the epipolic phenomena , it would seem a natural and almost a necessary conclusion , that the rays so separated ought to be wuholly , or in a very high degree , so dispersed when incident on an epipolizing surface .
But the whole history of physical optics is one continued warning against such seeming logical conclusions ; and in this case also the conclusion is not borne out by fact .
Thus in Exp. 2 and 4 , abundance of rays internally dispersed must of necessity have been incident on the new surface presented to them , yet no fresh dispersion whatever took place .
I may add too that in experiments made with considerable care to exclude all other light from incidence on a quiniferous surface , but such as had originated in epipolic dispersion , I have not succeeded in obtaining any indication of their susceptibility of being a second time so dispersed .
Though from the obscurity of such rays as compared with direct light , these trials can hlardly be considered as proving a negative , yet they certaiIlly go very far towards proving the absence of any peculiar susceptibility in those rays to this particular affection .
J. F. W. HERSCHEL .
Collingwood , March 1 , 1845 .
Note added during the Printing.-Professor GRAHAM has had the kindness to transmit to me a specimen of an alkaloid , extracted from the brown coat of the seed of the chestnut , to which the name Esculine has been given , which possesses in perfection the property of epipolic dispersion when in dilute solution , in which state it precisely resembles quinine .
The same eminent chemist refers also to a peculiar oil called Colophene , formed by the regulated action of sulphuric acid on oil of turpentine , which by his description of its phenomena , must also be an epipolizing liquid of a similar character .
J. F. W. H. May 12 , 1845 .

