]\gt ; IT .
The Potentiat of an Anchor Ring .
F. W. DYSON , , Fellow of College , mbridge .
Communicated by Profe.ssor J. J. , F.R.S. Received March 19 , \mdash ; Read May 5 , 1892 .
Introduction .
IN this Paper I have developed a method of dealing with questions connected with Anchor Rings .
If be the coordinates of any point outside an anchor ring , whose centra ] circle is of radius , then is a solution of LAPLACE'S equation , finite at all external points and vanishing at infinity .
Let this be called I. Then is another solution ; and two sets of solutions may be found by differentiating I and any number of times with respect to .
These solutions are symmetrical with respect to the axis of the ring .
In the first set is involved only in even powers ; in the second set in odd powers .
Take a section through the axis Oz of the ring and the point cutting the central circle of the ring in Let and When is less than , the integral 21.1.93 irst ferms aeduced thptic isurfaces arevery convergent.series oxpansions oection Ieeded ; butis eJcending powers oxpausions oobtainedby differentiating tespect teduced.ction.evoted thediscussion ohese.functions , imihr.ones , needed iDYSON OOTENTIAL ONCHOR RINGIn Section Inchor rpoints ifound i applications .
drawn for the ratios , 1 of the bhickness of the ring to its mean diameter .
In Section III .
the potential of a conductor , in the form of an anchor ring , found at external points ; the surface density at any point of the ring and the charge are also determined .
Section IV .
consists of a discussion of the motion of an anchor ring in an infinite fluid ; the velocity potential or stream line function for motion paralIel to the axis , perpendicular to the axis , \amp ; c. , being first determined .
The kinetic energy is determined in the several cases ; and in the case of the cyclic motion through the ring , the linear momentum .
In this last case , the solid angle subtended by a circle at a point near a circumference , is incidentally found .
In Section V. the annular form of rotating fluid is discussed , when the thickness of the annulus is small compared with its mean radius .
It is shown that the form of the cross section may be represented by \amp ; c where \amp ; c. , are of the second , third , \amp ; c. , order in .
Their values are found as far as To the second order , .
The method employed throughout the paper has not the analytical elegance of Mr. HICKS ' Toroidal Functions , but it has many advantages .
The potential of an attracting ring takes a very simple form .
The boundary conditions to be satisfied in hydrodynamical applications very simple .
The results are obtained in terms of and , the.quantities most obviously connected with a ring .
I am greatly indebted to .
HEIiMAN , Fellow and Assistant Tutor of Trinity College , Cambridge , for the careful manner in which he has read over much of the work , and many errors he has corl'ected .
In consequence , the paper , I think , be found free from any serious mistakes . .
F. W. DYSON ON THIB POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
Section Analysis .
S1 .
Take a fine ring in the plane of , centre at the origin , and consisting of attracting matter of density , where is the azimuth of any point .
The potential of this ring at a point , whose coordinates are , is Put , then the potential as the second integral vanishes between the limits .
Therefore or is a solution of LAPLACE'S equation .
Similarly is a solution .
Let V stand for either of these integrals .
Thon is also a solution of LAPLACE'S equation .
For different of and the solutions are not all independent : as it is easily seen that satisfies a linear partial differential equation of the second order in and But two independent sets of solutions are obtained by giving different values to in and .
only cases considered in this paper are when or .
That is the solutions of the forms ; ; ; and ; as thee cover all the cases to which t functions are applied in this paper .
It is easily seen that and , consequently , NR F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
are solutions of the equation For pubting , this equation becomes that is , is a solution of LAPLACE'S equation .
S2 .
Expansion of the Functions.\mdash ; Let the plane through the axis of the ring and a point , cut the ring in the two circles whose centres are and Let ; ; OC ; and the angle OCP Also , for convenience , put and When is less than the above integrals may be expanded in ascending powers of or [ CAYLEY , 'Ell .
Func p. 54 .
] .
[ CAYLEY , 'Ell .
Func p. 54 .
] Now Therefore \mdash ; \amp ; c. \mdash ; MR. .
P. W. , DYSON ON THE OF AN ANCHOR RING .
Substituting in the above expansions .
\mdash ; Now .
Therefore And MDOCCXCIII .
\mdash ; A. S 3 .
To obtain the expansion of in ascending powers of , the corresponding expansion of must be differentiated with respect to and being considered as functions of , and Now Therefore Solving these equations \mdash ; siu A.gain and } .
Solving these equations ; From these formulae it follows that and and that and Let us write MR. F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
5 ] been expanded as a function of The expansion of may therefore be found by differentiating this b.y the rule It is rather simpler to use the formulae for proved above .
Take , for example , the term This In performing the partial differentiationls with respect to and , it must be remembered that , and is a function of and Let .
\mdash ; \amp ; c. From this might be obtained , and then \amp ; c. , but in the question of an attracting ring there is a special advantage in using functions of the form Call this .
Thus Also denote by The values of the functions are collected bear for the sake of reference .
( A ) . . .
( B ) MR. F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING . . . . .
( C ) \mdash ; \mdash ; \mdash ; MR. F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
These five sets of formulae will be referred to as ( ) , ( B ) , ( C ) , ( D ) , ( E ) .
.\mdash ; The Potential .
an an External Point .
S4 .
The potential of an anchor ring at a point on its axis may be easily found in several ways .
One simpIe method is to divide bhe ring into elements by spheres , having the given point as centre .
Let QAR be a circle which by revolution round OP generates an anchor ring .
Let be its centre , and let OC be perpendicular to OP .
With centre describe circles , dividing the circle QAR into elements : let QR and be two of these circles .
By revolution of the figure round OP we obtain an anchor ring into elemenls .
Let .
OC .
PQ Then Therefore The formed by the revolution of QRR'Q ' is The potential of Therefore the potential of the , whole ring where is the mass of the rin Leb be two anchor rings of different radii , but of equal generating circles , having the same axis and centre .
Let and be the centres of the generating circles .
Let and be points on the axis such that If the densities of the rings be inversely proportional to the distance of the centres of their generating circles from the axis of revolution , that is , if the densities be made such that the of the rings are equal , then the above formula shows that the otential of the ring at is equal to the potential of the ring at MR. F. W. DYSON ON THE POTBNTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
S5 .
The integral may be reduced to elliptic functions .
Let it be called I. Therefore Writing for These integrals may be transformed by putting This gives Also Therefore or Therefore or cos2 * This method of reduction was given by one of the Referees .
Therefore .
Therefore Therefore Thus and giving .
Therefore Therefore the potential Now and Substituting , we find V \mdash ; \amp ; c. \amp ; c. This series is le.ss { han the series whose general term is and is therefore convergent if or R. S6 .
To DYSON OOTENTIAL ONCHORfind tntial onchor rxternal point .
RING .
59 When , that is when the generating circle of the rmg is infinitesimal , the potential at the point is When , and , i.e. , for a point on the axis , the expression reduces to , i.e. , to LAPLACE'S equation , and at a point on the axis of the becomes 5 . .
Now at any point on the axis of the ring Therefore , at any external point For this series is finite at all external points , satisfies LAPLACE'S equation , vanishes at infinity , and agrees with the value of V on the axis .
The series is very convergent , as is seen by the next paragraph .
S7 .
integral takes a simple form at points in the plane of the central circle .
For , it becomes Now when , and when Therefore at points in the plane of , further from the axis than the ring , \mdash ; \amp ; c. And at a point in the plane of between the axis and the ring \mdash ; \amp ; .
The series in its general form must converge at about the same rate at which these two particular cases do .
Their convergency is easily discussed .
For and is Thus Hence at all points in the plane of the central circle , beyond the ring , the series is more convergent than the whose general term is i.e. , than the series whose term is Similarly at points within the ring , in the plane of the central circle , the series is more convergent than the series whose general term is *This consideration of the convergency was inserted at the suggestion of ono of tho Referees , August , 1892 .
F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
S8 .
For the purposes of calculation , it is convenient to transform the integrals of S6 by LANDEN'S theorem .
; where and and being the least and greatest distances of the point , from the circular axis of the ring .
Now , and [ CAYLEY , ' Ell .
Func p. 48 .
] But Therefore Similarly Therefore , \mdash ; ; where is the angle between and Hence Differentiating again we shall find Therefore , at any extelnal point , \mdash ; \mdash ; where is the angle between and , and the ) odulus of the elliptic functions is I have c.alculated the value of V , retaining only the terms for the values MR. F. W. DYSON ON THE NTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
63 and the equipotential surfaces .
The method consisted in drawing circles of known radii , with centres , and ; and finding the value of at their points of .
intersection .
In the most unfavourable case , where , the value of the potential is not more than three per cent. in error at any point , the introduction of the terms in reduces the error to less than one and a halfper cent. When , the approximation is considerably earer .
Equipotential surfaces of ring formed by the revolution of the point about Oz .
Mand O Then is taken Fig. 2 .
Section of Equipotential surfaces of the ring formed by revolution of shaded round Mass .
OC and is taken .
F. W. DYSON ON THE NTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
ffib .
771 9S NDCCCXCIII .
\mdash ; A. Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .
MR. F. W. ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
Section III.\mdash ; Electric Potential of an Anchor S9 .
The potential at any external point may be taken to be For this is a solution of LAPLACE'S equation , finite at all points outside the rin and vanishing at infinity .
The constants are to be determined by the condition that at the surface of the ring the potential is the constant Using the expansions of S3 , we have that at any external point ae All terms have been retained which will , when is put or put , , be of the order being put , after differentiation .
Therefore : .
F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
When The numbers are given which arise from each term , as they serve to indicate roughly the convergency of the series .
They give for for which agree with some figures given by .
HICKS in the ' Phil. Trans 1881 .
Aug. , 1892 .
] Section IV.\mdash ; Motion of Anchor Ring in an Infinite fluid .
S10 .
cases of motion of an anchor ring in a fluid may be found by compounding Linear mot , ion parallel to the axis of the ring .
Linear motion perpendicular to the axis of the ring .
( iii .
) Rotation round a diameter of the central circle .
( iv .
) Cyclic motion through the ring .
Let be the velocity potential in cases , ( ii .
) , or ( ui .
) , and STOKES ' streamline function in cases or ( iv .
) .
Then ( a ) and are single-valued functions ; ( b ) They and their differential coefficients are finite and continuous at all points of the fluid , and vanish at infinity ; ( c ) satisfies the equation , and satisfies the equation ; MR. F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
( d ) has a definite value at the surface of the ring ; has a definite value at the surface of the ring .
The different cases must be considered separately .
Let the figure represent a section of the anchor ring .
through the axis Oz , at an azimuth Let be a point on the surface and let When the ring moves parallel to with velocity ; When it moves parallel to Ox with velocity ( iii .
) When it rotates round Oy with angular velocity The stream function for motion parallel to Oz .
with velocity , satisfies at the surface the equation For the cyclic motion , ( iv .
) at the surface of the ring .
The formulae of Section I. show that we may take in case in case ( ii .
) in case , MR. F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING . .
and that we may also take in cases and .
\amp ; c. , are constants which must be found separately in each case .
S11 .
Motion to the Axis of the Ring .
Let the ring move with velocity parallel to its axis .
The value of the normal velocity is at the surface of the rin At the surface of the ring Let value of or at the surface of the ring .
Let value of or at the surface of the ring .
Let us assume that Then \amp ; c. , are to be chosen , so that Differentiating the formulae ( B ) of S3 , we find ain \mdash ; \mdash ; These equations give Thus The kinetic energy is given by the equation where is the mass of the fluid displaced .
MR. F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
S 12 .
Velocity for Ring moving Right Angles to its \mdash ; The velocity potential is of the form The constants are to be determined from the condition that the normal velocity at the surface of the ring Thus N.ow the formulae ( C ) of S3 give on differentiation .
\mdash ; .
\mdash ; oos \mdash ; . .
\mdash ; . .
XCIII .
' .
P. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
This is evaluated by picking out the coefficients of \amp ; c. , in the expansions of \amp ; c. , given in S3 ( C ) , and S13 .
Ring rotating about a Line through its Centre in the Plane of its Central Circle.\mdash ; The velocity potential may be taken to be of the form The constants \amp ; c. , are determined by the boundary condition or Differentiating the formulae ( D ) of S3 , \mdash ; \mdash ; \mdash ; \mdash ; . . .
The equations to determine \amp ; c. , therefore , - \mdash ; These equations give ; ; ; ; The kinetic energy is..given by the -quation . .
F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR S14.\mdash ; Stream Lrine Function for a Ring moving paratlel to its Axis , and for the Cyctie Motion through the Ring.\mdash ; Let the velocity of the ring be , and the circulation be Let be the stream-line function .
Then at all points of the flnid .
At the surface of the ring const .
or .
We may therefore assume to be of the form Using the values of \amp ; c. , given in S4 ( E ) , The equations giving the constants \amp ; c. , are Another equation is found by using the fact that the circulation is Integrating round a circle concentric with the crosss-ection ( radius ) , we have : Differentiating the equations of S3 ( E ) , \mdash ; \mdash ; \mdash ; Also Therefore Similarly Therefore Solving the equations Substituting these values we obtain The kinetic energy is given by the equation a DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR Again , the part of the velocity of the fluid arising from the term in the .
stream function along an arc of a very.great whose centre is at the origin , is the limit limit of \mdash ; Therefore , the part of the circulation rising from the term of the stream function is Now the part arising from ) or , is obtained by differentiation with respect to , and Therefore , the circulation is given by agreeing with the result obtained We also see that the velocity of the fluid at the centre of the ring is .
The kinetic energy of the cyclic motion may be obtained simply in the following way\mdash ; the integral being taken over a barrier .
This , \mdash ; \mdash ; .
COS CO83 \mdash ; COS \mdash ; COS COS COS Expanding in ascending powers of , and multiplying , is easily expressed in cosines of multiples of On integration , we obtain The term independent of is MR. F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
If the cross-section of the is very small and const .
, But in this case is proportional to the solid angle subtended by the ring at any point .
Hence the solid angle subtended by a circular ring at a point near it is S17 .
The kinetic energy of the fluid has been calculated for the different motions of the ring .
To find the kinetic energy of the solid ring , its moments of inertia round the axis , and round a perpendicular to the axis through its centre must be found Let be the density of the ring , and be the mass of the ring .
The moment of inertia round the axis is .
The moment of inertia round a perpendicular axis is S18 .
Therefore , being the density of the fluid , and the masses of the fluid displaced by the ring , and of the ring , respectively , the kinetic energy is given by .
P. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
Substituting , we see that the motion be stable for any value of if Therefore the motion is stable for all positive values of , and for all negative values numerically less than or numerically greater than The motion is stable for values of between these values if The greatest value the right-hand side can have is i ) Therefore the motion is always stable if : Another possible steady motion of the ring is for it to move round in a circle , as if it were a rigid body attached to an axis in the plane of the ring .
Mr. BASSET shows that if be the time of a complete oscillation , and the radius of the circle described by the centre of the ring , then .
When the ring is very fine this becomes Section V.\mdash ; Annutar of Rotating Fluid .
S20 .
In order that a sufface may be a possible figure of equilibrium of rotating fluid , it is necessary that should be constant over the boundary .
Let us assume that is the equation to the cross-section of the annulus , and that \amp ; c. , are small quantities .
* .
F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
since such integrals as vanish .
Therefore \mdash ; \mdash ; . . .
the integrals being found at once by using the expansions of , \amp ; c. , in cosines of multiples of Substituting now for for for : we find for the value of the potential Similarly , the surface density gives .
and the density gives To find the ) of the potential involving The potential of the ring at is given by V .
1 Now .
therefore .
\amp ; c. Therefore , the terms which wil ] give to terms of highest order in at surface of ring are these results , the potential of the ring at is given by MR. F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
S22 .
The potential at any point external to the ring whose polar coordinates are , is found by writing \amp ; .
, instead of \amp ; c. , as in Section II .
, S5 .
Instead of \amp ; c. , we write ' ' 3 ' 3 .
' 3 .
Therefore , the potential at any point outside the ring is given by where Using the expansions given in S3 ( A ) , the potential at a point near the surface of the ring is given by where as before , stands for for , and for S 23 .
At the surface of the rin is constant .
Therefore is constant at the surface of the ring , or is constant , when .
Let be called .
Then Now and Therefore , : .
F. W. DYSON ON THE POTENTIAL OF AN ANCHOR RING .
and All terms which are of order higher than have been negJected ; and throughout , it been assumed that is of zero order in of the second order , of the third , and so on\mdash ; an assumption which will be justified by the result .
The value 0$ at the surface of the ring is Equating the coefficients of to zero , we obtain four equations to find , and where and The result is given by MME .
KOWALEWSKI in a paper on Saturn 's rings iri the 'Astronomische hten ' for 1885 .
She finds M. POINCARE also gives , and finds .
Both papers are given in TISSERAND'S 'Mecanique Celeste , ' vol. 2 .
The value found above has been kindly verified for me by Mr. HERMAN , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
The numerical values of \amp ; c. , are given below when A figure is given for the case of The cross-section is roughly an ellipse whose major axis is perpendicular to the axis of the ring .
The eccentricity of this ipse increases with the angular velocity .
bove maper DYSON OOTENTIAL ONCHOR Rnumerical results wiven farger values ocannot , however , mployed iases .
eccentricity of the cross-section increases , the expression given for the potential at external points will become diverge\amp ; ncheck ; t at the extremity of the minor axis of the cross- section .
A similar result will occur if the potential of an elliptic cylinder be found at external points , considering it as an approximation to a circular cylinder .
In this case it is easy to show that the eccentricity must be .
Assuming the same result for the case of a ring , it will be seen that , the value the above .
method gives for , gives the cross-section of too great eccentricity for the series to be convergent .
That the series were divergent for large values of was also suggested by one of the Referees .
Aug. , 1892 .
]

