]\gt ; S94 Note on Horizontal Receivers nsmitters iWireless By Prof. H. M. MACDONALD , ( Rcgistered July 18 , having been received by the Secretary at Cambridge , May 12 , \mdash ; Read November 19 , 1908 .
) In a communication published in the ' Proceedings , '* Mr. Marconi given the results observed when a straight horizontal conductor is sub .
stituted for the usual vertical conductor employed as a transmitter 01 receiver at a wireless telegraph station .
object of the following note is to consider the theory of such an arrangement , or at any rate one aspect of it .
The receiver , as being the more important , will be considered first .
earth Let AL ' represent the horizontal receiver , of a end A connected to a spark-gap or other wave detector .
The osciilations in AB can be represented by a distribu tion of oscillators along AB , and , if denotes the current strengtl ] at any point of AB , it must satisfy the conditions at , the free end and at , since the electric force perpendicular to AB at A must vanish .
If the dislance of AB from the earth is not too small , the effect 04 the oscillations belonging to the in the earth of AB on those in AH may be ected , the radiation from the free end will be approximately sylnmetlical with respect to AB , and the oscillations in AB are then approxilnately tlJe same if formed part of a sclli-infinite conductol in a system of oscillations is being free and first node from the free end ; che -length of these oscillations is very ) oximately five times the length of AB , ctnd therefore the receiver is of cienC ) is one-fifth of the of nsmitted w , a result observed ) When the distance of AB fi earth is snlall that the effcet of the oscillations in the of in the earth on the oscillations in ) is not ible , the ladiatio1 ] -f , Malch , lncdonald , ' Electric aves , .
X. .
Soc. Proc. , , vol. 7 p. Horizontal Receivers Transmitters .
rom the free end will not be symmetrical with respect to AB , but may be ( aken as approximately symmetrical with respect to some through 3 an angle with BA ; the wave-length of the oscillations in AB is herefore equal to the wave-length of the oscillations in a bent conductor oiuing ; that is greater than five times the of AB , and , therefore , this case the receiving conductor has its maximum efficiency when its ength is what less than one-fifth of the length of tlje transmitted wave , result also obseryed by Marconi .
* To examine the effect of the orientation the receiver , consider a straight conductol BAB ' twice the of AB fig. 2 ) and its in the horizontal plane , A and their niddle points respectively .
earth FIG. 2 .
When electric oscillations are being maintained in BB ' with the correset in , A and are nodes , hence , if a wave-detector is placed effect will be observed in it due to its own oscillations , and herefore the potential difference at , due to the forced oscillations in the ceceiver when the receiver AB is in the position fig. 1 is equal and opposite any instant to the potential difference at when the receiver is in the position which results from turning it through two right-angles ound C Now , the total effect at is made up of two parts , one due to the action of the ancing waves , the other due to the oscillations in the receiver .
If in fig. 1 the advancing waves be supposed to be from left to right , the oscillations in the receiyer may be regarded as the resultant of two sets of progressive waves , one travelling from to A and the other from A to ; and , since the oscillations in the receiver are maintained by the advancing waves , the set of ressive waves in the receiyer travelling from to A must be in the snme phase as the advancing waves at A. Further , since the electric force perpendicular to AB at A vanishes , the electl'ic distribution on AC has at any instant the opposite sign to that on AB , and therefore the potential diffel'ence at due to the oscillations in the receiver is at each instant in the opposite phase to the potential difference due to the direct action of the advancing waves .
Hence , if denote the maximum potential difference at due to the direct action of the waves , and the maximum potential difference due to the oscillations in the Prof H. cdonald .
lIay 1 recciver , the diflercnce at at nny instant is AB is two ) , the es stil left to , the set of ) ssivec , ayes in elling to A ) in opposite to the wavCf , since the tions in the are , as waves , and therefore ) ntial difference at due to oscillations the receiver is in ] case the same as that to the action of the and instant Hence the total effect at is eater wheIl the free eIJd f is dire the tIlSInittcr L il is ) ctly t it .
In the ) ) the ) has ) ssumed to ) placed wave onts .
is in the plane of the fronts of the ions lvil be set up BB ' ; and , therefore , when ] an the tion of the waves , the of the in betweell and the alue ] ) ) ndinr ) to .
Hence , AB all angle with direction in waves dvaneing , the ential rencc at is ) where , and depends } .
If , then , a curve lepresent the potential iHeren in terms of the orientation the er , it will of the form ) , with uneqnal ) loop ] ) further fionl the txansnlilter , its radius ) eing When the horizontal conductol is usetl as \ldquo ; its effect is ma two sets of ations , one oscillations in condnctol eltlanating from the free end , other At a distance the eHect of the is as that oscillator its inlage in the ] ) ) ; hence , such that is vertical and is the tion oi AB , the vertical distance due to this set is The due to the secol ) is only face is from ) the lre und proximately the op posite on 1908 .
] Transmitters Wireless proceeding from .
Hence the square of the amplitude of the vertical force at a distance is where is the angle the direction of the receiver makes with AB , and for a given value of this gives a figure 8 curve , with unequal loops to represent the intensity of the transmitted waves .
[ A 31.\mdash ; The essential feature of the various systems of directed wireless rraphy is the ence of two sets of waves differing in phase and proceeding from sources at a distance apart .
ement consists of three vertical , each 20 metres , placed at the corners of an equilateral triangle whose side is 30 metres .
The waves from one of these differs in phase by from the waves from the other two .
For the best effect the perpendicular of the is a of a wave-length , as then the waves in one direction are in the same phase , while those proceeding in the opposite direction are in opposite phases .
For this , that is , or approximately five times the height of the antenna , , with theory .
Artom 's arrangement consists of two equal antennae , each inclined at an angle of to the horizontal , the oscillations in them in phase by .
The antennae are bent through an of at the ends above the horizontal , and led to conductors ; the waves that interfere are those radiated from the bends , and the wave-length for the freatest effect be greater than five times the length of the straight part of an antenI ) , the radiation from the bend not ; symmetrical with respect to the antenna .
For complete interference , that is , with the waves in one direction in the same phase , and the waves in the other direction in opposite , the distance between the two ends is a quarter of a wave-length ; hence , if is the of the straight part of each of them , , that is In arran ement the two sources are the and the free end of the horizontal conductor , whose distance apart is approximately onefifth of a ) , while oscillations differ in phase approximately , the waves at the bend differing in phase by .
It should be observed that in Braun 's and Artom 's arrangement the amplitudes of the two component sets of waves are for all distances in the same constant while in Marconi 's angement the atnplitudes are in a ratio distance .
] ' Drahtl .
Tele vol. 1 .
Lincei , , vol. 1 p. 692 , 1906 .
VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A.

