V. Description of at extraordinary Human Fcetus .
In a Letter from Mr. Benj .
Gibson , Surgeon , to H. Leigh Thomas , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 8 , 181o .
Manchester , June , 1809 .
DEAR SIR , I HAVE lately had an opportunity of inspecting a singular human foetus , at the full period of utero-gestation , and hope that a history of it will not be unacceptable to the learned Society , of which you are a member .
Some deviations , which it exhibits , from the usual form and structure of the human body , have not ( as far as my information extends ) been yet recorded ; and the consideration that they were all apparently compatible with life , gives additional interest to the subject ; fcr if the difficulty of parturition had not proved almost immediately fatal , the complex structure of the animal would have formed no impediment to its existence .
Instances of two entire human bodies united together , are by no means rare in the collections of anatomists .
Sometimes their conjunction takes place back to back ; sometines the reverse ; at other times side by side ; or in such a position as to form a kind of cross : the two heads lying in one direction , and the opposite extremities in another , and intersecting it at right angles .
Tihat species of monstrosity , however , in which two bodies are merely united together , does not display in a striking point of view , the resources of nature in accommodating her , means , or modifying her materials to any new situation .
All that is remarkable , is the conjunction of two bodies complete in themselves : the organs which compose them have their ordinary structure and arrangement ; the anatomist or physiologist anticipates nothing curious in their internal configuration .
It is principally in those instances of unnatural deviation , where some parts of the body are formed double , and others single , that the resources of nature become apparent ; in adjusting parts , which , in the natural state of the body , have no adaptation .
Of this kind is the singular foetus , of which I shall now proceed to offer the description .
This curious production was formed with two heads placed side by side , united apparently to one body , with two legs and two arms .
The one head expressed the character of a male , the other evidently that of a female .
This distinction of sex , conspicuous enough from mere inspection , was still corroborated by the conformation of the organs of generation .
From external examination it was plain , that there were two spines corresponding to the two heads ; these were found to terminate in a double os sacrum , tipped with two ossa coccygis .
The superior part of the spines diverged considerably , so that when the two faces were turned towards each other , the lips came in contact .
Above the first lumbar vertebra , they approached each other , still however forming two independent vertebral canals , for the passage of the spinal marrow from each head .
In consequence of the divergence of the spines at their superior part , the chest was formed much broader than natural .
The common number of ribs were placed on time outside of each spine ; and between the inner sides of the spines , occupying the space formed by their divergence , was interposed an equal number of somewhat angular ribs , of about an inch in length .
These were common to both spines , .
and possessed a considerable latitude of motion , but were unconnected with any bone similar to the sternum .
These short ribs , by occupying the situation of the spine in the natural state of the body , completed the posterior part of the chest .
The only remaihing peculiarities in the osseous system , was a third : scapula , small in size , and placed at the root of ' each neck , upon the small ribs ; and a third clavicle , inserted at one extremity into the glenoid cavity of this scapula , and ' attached by the other to the upper part of the sternum .
Before I proceed to describe the conformation of the vascular system , and the distribution of the nerves of the thoracic and abdominal viscera , it will be necessary , first to notice the arrangement , connection , and number of these viscera .
The chest was divided by the mediastinum into two cavities , containing , amongst other organs , the lungs , and two hearts , placed contiguous to each other .
It was ascertained by inflation , that the lungs on the right side were entirely independent of those on the left , each being supplied with air by a distinct trachea , from the corresponding head .
They were not divided into lobes in the usual way : on the right side there were only two lobes , on the left only one .
The only peculiarity with respect to the diaphragm was , that instead of being attached to the spine and lower ribs , on the right side of the body , it crossed over a considerable portion of the right lobe of the liver ; this muscle , therefore , assisted : hi forming a cavity , which was situated upon the two spines ) I ' s and descending aorta , and underneath the apex of each heart , and the large vessels , which entered the rigit heart from the liver .
In this cavity , which may be considered as a second abdomen , were deposited , a spleen , pancreas , omentum , and stomach , connected with the oesophagus of the right head .
It communicated with the usual cavity of the abdon en , by an opening similar to the foramen of WINsLow ; for a probe , introduced underneath the vessels of the liver , passed into it .
Little irregularity was observable in the viscera of the abdomen .
A second stomach occupied nearly its usual situation .
With this the duodenum was connected in the common way ; and at a short distance from the pylorus , was joined by the duodedum from the stomach placed in the cavity of the chest .
Close to this junction , the ductus communis choledochus , and ductus pancreaticus , entered the intestine .
The only circumstance of irregularity in the other intestine was , that the coecum and that part of the colon , which is , generally , closely bound down , by the peritoneum to the right side , was attached to it by a membrane of considerable length , which allowed them to be turned to the right or left side indifferently .
All the intestines , however , were more capacious than natural .
As I anticipated some remarkable deviations from nature in the formation and arrangement of the vascular system , I carefully i-njected the body by the umbilical vein .
On inspecting the chest , I found two hearts , formed of the usual number of auricles and ventricles , and enclosed in separate pericardia .
The heart situated towards the left side , and corresponding to the male head , was considerably the largest .
From its ventricles the aorta and pulmonary artery arose in the usual way , and communicated with each other by a dutctus artreriosus .
The blood conveyed by the pulmonary artery passed to the lungs situated on the left side of the chest .
From the arch of the aorta , the two carotid arteries were sent off in one trunk , which soon divided .
The vertebral and inferior thyroid arteries , with the left axillary artery , were detached from the aorta , after it had almost completed its arch , and had received the ductus arteriosus .
This aorta soon afterwards united with the aorta of the right heart , and descended as one trutnk , embedded in the hollow between the two spines , and restinhg upon the short ribs , which were connected with them .
With regard to the veins which entered this heart , those from the lungs terminated in the left auricle , in the usual way .
The vena cava superior terminated in the right auricle , and had this peculiarity , that it not only received the blood from the jugular veins of the left head , and from the left subclavian vein , but from the right subclavian vein also , and from the jugular veins of the right head .
There was also a large vessel , which will be noticed afterwards , forming a communication between the vena cava superior of this heart ( the left ) , and the vena cava inferior of the right heart .
The principal peculiarity , however , of this heart consisted in a partial defect of the vena cava inferior .
A large vein , which entered the lower part of the right auricle , was formed by the venae cavwe hepatica , and two ductus venosi , which were smaller than natural .
The heart situated towards the right side of the chest diffrbred in many respects from that on the left , both in the relative situation of the vessels which arose from it , and ia 197 Atree vessels which were deficient .
The position of its auricles and ventricles was peculiar , and the whole heart was in a great measure reversed .
The two auricles lay in contact , and were not separated by the origin of the large vessels .
The ventricle situated towards the right side of the body gave off the aorta ; whilst the pulmonary artery arose from the left ventricle , which was cortiguous to the heart of the left side .
These vessels were united by a ductus arteriosus .
The pulmonary artery , however , was not situated before the aorta at its origin ; it passed behind the superior part of the right ventricle , so as to get behind the origin of the aorta , where it was divided into bralnches , distributed to the lungs of the right side of the chest .
At this point also , the ductus arteriosus was detached from the pulmonary artery , and following the direction of the aorta upwards , appeared like a second arch , placed behind the arch of the aorta .
In fact , the arch formed by the ductus arteriosus very nearly resembled that of the aorta , by sending off a large vessel from its convex side .
From the arch of the aorta the carotid arteries were given off , as distinct branches , but no axillary artery for the arm of the right side .
This vessel , with the right vertebral , and the inferior thyroid arteries of the right head , were detached from the middle of the ductus arteriosus in one trunk , which soon divided into three branches .
This aorta then descended a little , and united to its fellow , from the heart of the left side .
I shall pass over the smaller vessels derived from the descending aorta , and only notice , that in the situation of the caeliac artery , three or four vessels were given off , crowded together : they appeared to be destined for the liver , and for the two stomachs , two spleens , and single pancreas .
, ; s , '8 The principal deviation from the natural structure in the venous system of this heart , consisted in the want of the vena cava superior .
The vena cava inferior might be said to be natural .
It received the veins from the lower extremities , from one kidney , &amp;c. and also the branches of the venue cavse hepaticae , which did not terminate in the opposite heart .
It received also a ductus venosus from the umbilical vein .
The only remaining circumstances with respect to the distribution of the blood vessels , were two very large anastomoses between the branches of the vena portarum ; and a remarkable branch of communication , between the lower part of the vena cava inferior of the right heart , and the vena cava superior of the left heart .
This communicating vessel was detached from the vena cava inferior , oposite to the right emulgent vein , and , having crossed over the anterior part of the aorta , below the origin of the caeliac artery , received the left enulgnt vein .
It then proceeded upwards , and terminated in the vena cava superior .
Although this vessel was situated on the left side of the aorta , it probably served the office of the vena azygos .
Although I have already noticed several instances of curious conformation , that of the organs of generation was in some respects the most remarkable .
F rom the features of the two heads I was led to expect both male and female parts , as the countenances clearly expressed the two sexes .
In these organs the male character was predominant ; the penis was of good size : the testes in the act of passing into the scrotum : the vesiculae seminales were perfect and well formed .
Still these parts partook in some measure , of the conformation of the female organs .
Th'e glans penis was formed precisely like thalt of the clitoris was covered by a similar prepuce , without M.DCCX .
S a frminum .
It was also imperforate , like that of the clitoris ; for although the urethra was continuous with the penis , it did not perforate the substance of the glans ; but , for a considerable extent , passed on the under surface of the penis , merely covered by the common integuments : nor was it surrounded by the corpus spongiosum , till it arrived nearly as far as the bulb of the urethra .
These were all the female characters I observed , till being induced to open the bladder , which felt uncommonly thick and muscular , I discovered a uterus placed in its cavity , in some measure incorporated with the substance , and forming a part of that viscus .
It was situated towards the most depending part of the bladder ; its fundus projected about half an inch , whilst the rest of its body and cervix , was incorporated with the posterior part of the bladder .
From its superior part , the fallopian tubes proceeded , beautifully convoluted ; they penetrated through the substance of the bladder , and , as far as I could ascertain , terminated in a cul de sac near the vesiculm seminales .
The uterus was hollow ; its cervix extended to the beginning of the urethra , where it terminated by an oval opening on the prostate gland , nearer to the neck of the bladder than the verumontanum .
I could not discover whether the ovaria were connected with the uterus , but it is extremely probable , that they were situated exterior to the bladder , near the termination of the fallopian tubes , and might have been removed accidentally , during the dissection of parts , where their existence was little expected .
As I had no reason to believe that there was any variety in the distribution of the nerves of the extremities , my attention was principally directed to those of the thoracic and abdominal viscera .
The eighth pair of nerves had its natural origin from each brain , and gave off the usual brancnhes in passing down the neck .
In the chest , the pair derived from the right head supplied the right heart , lungs , stomach , &amp;c. The pair from the left head , was distributed in a similar manner to the organs of the left side .
Branches were detached from each pair to the semilunar ganglion .
A pair of intercostal nerves proceeded also from each head .
In describing them , it will be convenient to distinguish those which passed on the inside of each spine , by the name of inner intercostals : those on the outside of each spine , by that of outer intercostals .
There was this peculiarity in the inner intercostal nerves , that they passed along , without giving off , or receiving communicating branches , or forming the usual ganglia , in consequence of the want of all the cervical , dorsal , and lumbar nerves , on the inner side of each spine , except the first cervicals .
In the chest , the two inner intercostals formed a junction , and accompanied the descending aorta downwards .
But before this joint nerve arrived at the semilunar ganglion , two considerable branches were detached , which continued to accompany the aorta , and were ultimately lost in the cavity of the pelvis .
The greatest part of the nerve , however , terminated in the semilunar ganglion .
The outer intercostals , or those passing on the outside of each spine , had , as far as I could investigate them , their usual distribution .
I have already had occasion to mention the deficiency of all the cervical , dorsal , and lumbar nerves , on the inside of each spine ; except the first cervicals , of course all the nerves , which are commonly derived from them , were wanting .
Thus So tsI there was only one pair of the phrenic nerves ; one nerve on the outside of each neck , which was distributed to the diaplhragm in the usual way .
The other nerves from the spinal marrow were in like manner distributed , as if the body had had but one spine .
Thus the nerves of the right arm and leg , were supplied by the right side of the right spinal marrow : those of the left arm and leg , by the left side of the left spinal marrow .
These are all the circumstances connected with this curious foetus , which I think worthy your notice ; and , having already sufficiently trespassed upon your patience , I subscribe myself Your obliged Servant , B. GIBSON .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE III .
Anterior View of the Hieart and Arteries , removed from the Body .
i. The right ventricle of the heart , connected with the left head .
2 .
The left ventricle .
3 .
The right auricle .
4 .
The left auricle .
5 .
The pulmonary artery at its origin .
6 .
The ductus arteriosus .
7 .
The aorta , 8 .
The trunk , from which the two external carotid arteries of the left head arose .
The trunk , from which the vertebral , the inferior thyroid arteries , and the left axillary artery , arose .
o1 .
The aorta after it has completed its arch , and is proceeding to unite with the aorta , from the heart of the right head .
11 .
The left ventricle of the heart , corresponding to the right head .
12 .
The right ventricle .
13 .
The aorta , arising from the right ventricle .
14 .
The right external carotid artery of the right Ilead .
15 .
The left external carotid artery .
i6 .
The left vertebral artery , arising from the arch of the aorta as a distinct vessel .
17 .
The pulmonary artery , where it detaches the ductus arteriosus .
18 .
Branches of the pulmonary artery .
9g .
A vessel detached from the ductus arteriosus , from which the right axillary , the right vertebral , and the inferior thyroid arteries , are derived .
co .
The point of junction between the aorta of the right and left heart .
el .
The descending aorta .
22 .
The umbilical vein .
23 .
Two ductus venosi detached to the left heart .
e4 .
A trunk formed by the venae cavae hepatice .
S5 .
Large anastomoses formed between the branches of the vena portarum .
26 .
The vena cava inferior , terminating in the left auricle of the right heart .
27 .
A large vessel , which forms a communication between 133 the vena cava inferior of the right heart , and the vena cava superior of the left heart e8 .
Vena cava superior , terminating in the right auricle of the left heart .
29 .
A trunk formed by the left subclavian vein , and the jugular veins of the left side of the left head .
so .
A trunk formed by the jugular veins of the right side of the left head .
31 .
A trunk formed by the jugular veins of the left side of the right head .
32 .
A trunk formed by the right subclavian vein , and the jugular veins of the right side of the right head .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV .
Posterior View of the Hearts azd Arteries .
1 .
Left heart .
2 .
Right heart .
g. Ductus arteriosus of the left heart .
4 .
Ductus arteriosus of the right heart .
5 .
The arch of the aorta of the right heart , where it receives the ductus arteriosus .
6 .
A trunk , from which the vertebral and inferior thyroid arteries , with the left axillary artery , arose from the aorta .
7 .
The left vertebral artery of the right head , arising from the arch of the aorta , just as it receives the ductus arteriosus .
S. A trunk arising from the ductus arteriosus , which supplied the right vertebral , the right axillary , and the inferior thyroid arteries .
9 .
The pulmonary arteries .
10 .
The descending aorta .
1 .
Vena cava inferior , terminating in the right heart .
12 .
Vena cava superior , terminating in the left heart .
13 .
A considerable vessel of communication , passing between the vena cava superior of the left heart , and the vena cava inferior of the right heart .
14 .
The umbilical vein .
I5 .
Ductus venosi .

