]\gt ; and nions and ' By J. F.T.C.D. , Iioyal Astrollonlr of Ireland .
micated by cceived I 1 , 190 The object of this ) is to include colnetry vithi the scope of oIlS .
The calculus , as est ) milton , solely to the treatment of metricallelatious , ) when laternion as representing a weighted point , projective properties bc .
with faoility .
the reprcseltted ) the ( ternion , ( 1 , is the trcmity of the vector , from arbitrnry the veight ttribtliied to the point is and this ctation lcquires uo modification in the ) of the calcnlnh .
In this the theor , of the qnaternion metion is to a -tent , this is of CCftlse the most homographic nsformntion in is exprcssil ) means of a quaternion fimction .
One section of the paper is devoted to the consideration of the of liuealnion functions , thd among these the of systcms of drics which correspond to the case -hich the lctions self-conj , in this scction and mole fully in the section on ( \ldquo ; it is pointed out that the in the of the fumctions is wider th in the of metions .
In fact , in the the ulctions mtlst remain ftcr tnsformation .
It is shown that there in eight distinct types of covnriance .
The decomposition of line transformations is also much use is made of the -root of a quatcrnion metion .
A scction is occnpied with the of the trans- tions lvhich fignres othel given ( with t couditions lvhich cases mnst be ) cyed in order a transformation may be possible .
The , the priuciple of reciprocity , dised c tnre and geodesics , snbsequent section , and the chief propertics oper to ited the tely following .
scctious occupied the theory of the ) qn , aterAt the end of cvions p it WttS stated that the bility of when pcar-shapod could not bc definitely without furthel approximation .
After some correspondencc with during the course of luy vork ou that paper , I lttompted to out the second ) foumd my self foiled ccrtaiIl stage of the work .
hile he had ttlrned his tteIltio to the subject , and he has shown how the difficnlty hich stopped me may be overcome .
He not , howcvor , uIsued the rdnous t of onverting his into ltlmll ) , so hc the question of stability unI .
so kind to mc to his manuscript on its to the Sociely for a felv , thus assisted I able to resume my attempt under favourable conditions , and this paper is the resnlt .
The snbstance of the dysis of this paper is , of course , essentially the same as his , but the two present but little superficial resemblance .
It is well that the two investigations of so complicated a subjcct ) nearly independent of ons another .
If a of liquid be rotating like a rigid body with uniform angular , the ation of the ( of cqnilibrinm may ) * .
R. Acad. , , pp. 17\mdash ; 30 .
'Phil .
Tlans .
, vol. 198 , pp. 301\mdash ; 331 .
' Phil. rans .
, vol. 198 , pp. 333\mdash ; 373 .

