Experiments on the Refrangibility of the invisible Rays of the Sun .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read April 24 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 284 .
] In a paper read to the Society at a former meeting , the Doctor announced some observations which seemed to indicate that there are two sorts of rays proceeding from the sun ; the one the calorific rays , which are luminous and refrangible into a variegated spectrum ; and the other the invisible rays , which produce no illumination , but create a sensible degree of heat , and appear to have a greater range of refrangibility than the colorific rays .
To the latter he assigns the name of radiant heat .
Having lately had some favourable opportunities to prosecute this investigation , he here delivers an account of the series of experiments he made on the subject , which seem to him to confirm the above conjecture .
The mode of conducting these experiments was simply this : On a horizontal tablet covered with white paper , and divided into squares , for the convenience of measurement , a part of the extreme colour of a prismatic spectrum was suffered to fall , the remainder of the coloured rays passing by the edge of the tablet , so as not to interfere with the experiment .
Three thermometers were placed on the tablet , at different distances from the termination of coloured rays .
The general results of the ten experiments here described were as follows : From the four first it appears , that there actually are rays coming from the sun which are less refrangible than any of those which affect the sight ; that they are invested with a high power of heating bodies , but with none of illuminating objects , which probably is the reason why they have hitherto escaped unnoticed .
The fifth and sixth experiments showed that the power of heating is extended , though in a feeble degree , to the utmost limits of the most refrangible or visible purple rays , but not beyond them ; and that it is gradually increased as the coloured rays grow less refrangible .
And from the four last experiments we gather that the maximum of the heating power resides among the invisible rays without the prismatic spectrum , and is probably about half an inch beyond the last visible one , or from the confines of the red ray .
These likewise show that the sun 's invisible rays , in their less refrangible state , still exert a heating power , considerably beyond this maximum , fully equal to that of the red-coloured light ; and that consequently , if we may infer the quantity of the efficient from the effect produced , these invisible rays of the sun probably far exceed the visible ones in number .
The inferences deduced from these results are , that the range of refrangibility of radiant heat , or colorific rays , when dispersed by a prism , begins at the purple-coloured light , where they are most refracted , and have the least efficacy ; and that their refrangibility lessens and their power increases as they approach the confines of the red-coloured light .
, but that these confines are not the limits of their decreasing refrangibility and increasing power , these having been traced far beyond the prismatic spectrum in an invisible state ; that as their density gradually decreases , their energy at last vanishes , till at length the thermometrical spectrum , as the Doctor is willing to call it , becomes wholly imperceptible .
Hitherto the effects of these heating rays have been observed as far as one inch and a half from the confines of the red ray .
If this be a true account of solar heat , ( says our author at the close of his paper , ) it remains only for us to admit , that such of the rays of the sun as have the refrangibility of those which are contained in .
the prismatic spectrum , by the construction of the organs of sight , are admitted under the appearance of light and colours ; and that the rest , being stopped in the coats and humours of the eye , act upon them , as they are known to do upon all the parts of our body , by occasioning a sensation of heat .

