1894.1 On the Liquation of Silver-Copper Alloys .
the midst of which there was no regular effect to be seen ; but as the experiment went on , and the medium improved , the expected effect came out distinctly : a quick downward jump of the fringes at or immediately after the instant of the spark .
Under good optical conditions , and at potentials high and low , the effect was perfectly regular , and was distinct and pure as that in oil of colza , though apparently not quite so large .
( 2 .
) Plane of polarisation of the pencil BP horizontal : Rise of fringes indicates relative retardation of BP .
The disturbance of the fringes was greatly reduced as the experiment went on , till at last there was nothing left but a set of slow movements , very irregular and very small , sometimes invisible .
In the midst of these , as in their absence , and in a long set of observations , taken at different potentials , from low to highest , there was no trace ever seen of a jump of the fringes at the instant of the spark .
It appears , therefore , that in this negative dielectric , as in oil of colza , the total optical effect of electric strain is an acceleration of the vibration which is directed along the line of force .
The conclusion to be drawn from the preceding experiments has been stated already by anticipation ; but I repeat it finally in other terms as follows:\#151 ; If light pass through an electrostatically-strained medium at right angles to the lines of force , and be represented by two component lights whose planes of polarisation are respectively parallel to the lines of force and perpendicular , then the proper and immediate optical effect of the electric strain is a change of velocity of the latter component.* The use of the words proper and immediate in this statement may be thought objectionable ; but some such words are required for the purpose here chiefly intended , which is to exclude those undoubtedly remote effects of electric action that appeared as disturbances in all the experiments .
TV .
" On the Liquation of Silver-Copper Alloys .
" By Edward Matthey , F.C.S. , Assoc. Roy .
Sch .
Mines .
Communicated by Sir G. G. Stokes , F.R.S. Received February 16,1894 .
It is a well-known fact that during the solidification of certain alloys groups of the constituent metals fall out of solution , giving rise to the phenomenon called " liquation .
" The molecular arrangement which results from this behaviour of alloys has been investigated by many experimenters , notably by Devol , Roberts-Austen , and Guthrie .
The author has also studied the behaviour of a large * The change of velocity in the ca3e of any positive dielectric is of course a | decrease .
Mr. E. Matthey .
[ Mar. 15 , series of the alloys of the precious metals and metals of the platinum group , and the results have been published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1892 , and in other papers to which reference may be made.* It is , however , in the case of alloys of silver and copper that liquation is most marked , and gives rise to results of much interest and industrial importance .
It is , for instance , often a matter of great importance to obtain a plate of standard silver ( 925 parts of silver in 1000 ) of uniform standard .
The great difficulty of effecting this has been shown by Roberts-Austenf , and , as the results of an elaborate series of experiments , he was led to the conclusion that slow and uniform cooling of the mass was most effective in obtaining uniformity of standard .
He informs me of a fact of which I was not aware until the present experiments were concluded , viz. , that he also tried the effect of the rapid cooling of a thin casting in a large mould which was no less than 45 ' 7 cm .
long .
He found , however , that castings made in this mould were comparative failures as regards uniformity of standard , and that , as in the case of other published results given by castings in thicker moulds , it was not possible , either by rapid or by slow cooling , to obtain masses of alloys which did not giye points of local richness .
During the last few years I have returned to the investigation of the silver-copper alloys , and as the results of a series of some hundreds of experiments , only the final ones of which must be referred to here , I find that it is preferable to cast the alloy very thin , and to promote the uniformity of cooling .
* A bar of this alloy was cast into a " skillet " mould to produce a casting 30 cm .
in length , 13 cm .
in width , and 6 mm. in thickness , weighing 5 kilos .
Punchings wrere taken through its thickness at the points marked , and the assays which were made of these punchings showed the composition at the respective points to be as follows:\#151 ; * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1892 , A , pp. 629\#151 ; 652 , and 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 47 , 1890 , pp. 180\#151 ; 186 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 23 , 1875 , p. 481 , and ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 27 , 18/ 4\gt ; p. 197 .
1894 .
] On the Liquation of SilverAlloys .
267 Result A. \#166 ; ^924-4 924 4 ' \lt ; b \lt ; 5 9251 925-1 \lt ; 5 925-1 \lt ; 6 925-1 9251 ; ^24-4 9244 , Average , 924*78 .
Maximum Variation , 0'7 per mill .
Showing a very slight tendency to liquation of silver to the centre here .
And another bar cast at a higher temperature in the same mould showed the qualities indicated at the points given .
Result B. '^25-4 92 6 -1 ^ \lt ; 5 925-4 \lt ; b 925-4 924*7 \lt ; 5 925-2 \lt ; 5 925 4 ; ^25-4 925-4/ Average , 925 37 .
268 On the Liquation of Silver-Copper Alloys .
[ Mar. 15 , No liquation of silver to the centre .
I ultimately reduced the thickness of the mould to 4 mm. , and cast a bar into this , with the results shown in diagrams C and C ' .
Result C. 925*2 Average , 925*14 .
Maximum variation , 0*1 per mille .
Result C ' .
( 0 rolled laterally to one mm. thickness .
) Average , 925*02 .
1894 .
] Degenerations in the Brain and Spinal Cord , fyc .
269 .
These results will , I think , be considered Sufficiently remarkable by metallurgists who have been accustomed to deal with castings of standard silver .
It must not be supposed , however , that liquation has been entirely prevented ; it has , however , practically disappeared .
The excellent results now submitted to the Society have been obtained by limiting the possibilities of re-arrangement as much as may be , and by ensuring that the conditions of cooling shall be as uniform as possible .
The need of obtaining uniform alloys is met with in other branches of industry than those which involve the use of silver-copper alloys , so that the conclusions to which the present experiments point are somewhat far-reaching .
Y. " A Contribution to the Study of Descending Degenerations in the Brain and Spinal Cord , and of the Seat of Origin and Paths of Conduction of the Fits in Absinthe Epilepsy .
" By Rubert Boyoe , M.B. , Assistant Professor of Pathology , University College , London .
Communicated by Professor V. Horsley , F.R.S. Received February 8 , 1894 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory of University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) For the purposes of this research , the following are the experiments which have been performed in the cat:\#151 ; I. Lesions after which Animal was Kept A live . .
1 .
Removal of one complete cerebral hemisphere in 40 cats .
2 .
Removal of motor area only in 4 cats .
3 .
Division of the crus cerebri in 2 cats .
4 .
Removal of a lobe of the cerebellum in 10 cats .
5 .
Hemisection of the spinal cord in 4 cats .
6 .
Complete section of the spinal cord in 2 cats .
II .
Lesions after which Animals were not Kept Alive for any Length of Time .
1 .
The preceding operations .
2 .
Removal of both cerebral hemispheres .
3 .
Removal of the cerebellum .
4 .
Removal of one cerebral hemisphere and opposite lobe of cerebellum and vice versa .
5 .
Removal of one hemisphere and division of opposite half of the spinal cord .

