1878.1 Dr. Klein .
Etiology of Infectious Diseases .
III .
" Experimental Contribution to the Etiology of Infectious Diseases with special reference to the Doctrine of Contagium vivum .
" By E. Klein , M.D. , F.R S. Received February 4 , 1878 .
The present communication has for its object to bring before the Royal Society the results of an experimental inquiry * into the etiology of an infectious disease of the pig , known as Hog Plague , My Rouge , Red Soldier , Malignant Erysipelas , or also Typhoid Fever of the Pig .
There are English and continental writers who describe the disease as Anthrax or Splenic Fever of the Pig .
I shall show , however , conclusively , in my Report to the Medical Officer of the Local Government Board , that it is neither typhoid fever nor anthrax , but is an infectious disease of its own kind , which I propose to call " Infectious Pneumo-Enteritis of the Pig " ( Pneumo-enteritis contagiosa ' ) .
Like other infectious diseases , the " Pneumo-Enteritis " possesses an incubation period , followed by constitutional disturbance and certain anatomical changes .
These latter are invariably affections of the lung , of the intestine , and of the lymphatic glands , not only of those of the organs of respiration and alimentation , but also those of the inguinal and lumbar regions .
In the lung the changes are those known to pathologists as lobular pneumonia .
In the alimentary canal the mucous membrane of the large intestine is chiefly affected , being the seat of smaller or larger ulcerations .
There is generally also inflammation of the serous membranes , especially the peritoneum , leading to an exudation of lymph into the serous cavity .
The skin is occasionally affected with greater or smaller red patches .
There are haemorrhagic patches to be found in the lung and serous membranes , the endocardium , and the muscle of the heart , the mucous membrane of the intestine ( especially duodenum and large intestine ) , the tongue , and occasionally also the liver and spleen , only seldom in the skin and kidney .
In anatomical respects , therefore , the Pneumo-Enteritis bears undoubtedly a great resemblance to anthrax or splenic fever .
There exists , however , a marked difference between the two diseases in the incubation period , the general pathology , f and especially in the anatomical character of the spleen and blood .
In splenic fever we find the spleen invariably enlarged , being the principal organ of the affection , * This being part of a larger research carried out for the medical officer of the Local Government Board .
+ In splenic fever the period of incubation ranges from between a few hours to several days , in pneumo-enteritis it varies from two to five days and more .
Splenic fever is easily transmissible to man and the domestic animals , whereas the transmissi-bility of the pneumo-enteritis is much more limited .
Hitherto I have succeeded in communicating it to rabbits , guinea-pigs and mice , although only with difficulty .
102 Dr. Klein on the [ Feb. 14 , whereas in pneumo-enteritis it is only occasionally changed .
And , likewise , the blood presents entirely different characters in the* two diseases ; in pneumo-enteritis it is not different in any marked degree from normal blood , whereas in splenic fever it is of dark colour\#151 ; laky , ^nd does not coagulate at all , or only imperfectly so .
Besides , the blood in splenic fever contains the now famous Bacillus anthracis , and hence its conspicuous infectious property , whereas in pneumo-enteritis the fresh blood does not , as a rule , contain any foreign matter , and in most instances does not possess any infectious property .
Another disease with which pneumo-enteritis bears a great resemblance on account of certain anatomical characters , viz. , inflammation of serous membranes , lung , intestine , and lymphatic glands , hsemor-rhage in lung , serous membranes , endocardium muscle of heart , intestinal mucous membrane , and other organs\#151 ; is specific septicaemia.* The resemblance , however , is not greater than to splenic fever , although the differences are not less well marked .
Besides others , there is this great distinction , that in pneumo-enteritis the contagion spreads by simple cohabitation , and through the air , which it never does in septicaemia , as in this the virus always requires a broken surface through which to enter a healthy individual .
Pneumo-enteritis is occasionally described as malignant erysipelas ( mal rouge , red soldier ) , but this is in so far inadmissible , as the affection of the skin in the former is a very inconstant symptom , and in milder forms of the disease is invariably absent .
More recently the pneumo-enteritis has been regarded as typhoid fever of the pig .
From a purely anatomical point of view , the resemblance between real , i.e. , human , typhoid fever and pneumo-enteritis is very slight indeed , so slight , in fact , that to mention it requires a total oversight of some of the most prominent symptoms , e.g. , inflammation of lung and serous membranes , enlargement of inguinal , lumbar , and bronchial lymphatic glands , haemorrhages in the endocardium and muscle of the heart in pneftmo-enteritis on the one hand , swelling and ulceration of the lymphatic glands of the small intestine , swelling and inflammation of spleen in real typhoid fever on the other hand .
The resemblance seems to be limited solely to the fact that in both diseases ulceration occurs in the intestine .
But the distribution , the nature , and the development of these ulcerations is totally different in the two diseases .
Having said thus much as a prefatory explanation , I proceed to state the results of the experiments.* !
" * Specific septicaemia as distinct from septic infection .
See Dr. Burdon-Saunder-son 's lectures at the University of London , 1877 .
t I*1 my experiments of inoculation the materies morbi was used in minimal doses , i.e.y a drop of fluid matter , or in the case of solids a particle of less than the size of a pins head .
In both cases the materies morbi was diluted or suspended respectively in a few minims of boiled saline solution of f per cent , in order to in- 1878.1 Etiology of Infectious Diseases .
The experiments refer to the following series : 1 .
Experiments showing that the fresh blood of diseased animals does not,.as a rnle , contain the virus , as it fails to produce the disease when introduced into a healthy animal .
Four animals were inoculated ( at different times ) with fresh blood of diseased animals .
They remained healthy .
When subsequently inoculated with virus-containing matter , they became smitten with In a fifth instance , however , fresh blood did produce infection .
[ And this same blood proved active after having been kept sealed up in a capillary tube for several weeks .
] This blood was obtained from a very severe case with copious peritoneal exudation , in which were found peculiar abnormally large coarsely granular cells ; the same cells were also present in the blood ; so that it appears probable that the blood became charged , by absorption during life , with matter from the peritoneal exudation .
This latter always contains the virus in an active state .
2 .
Experiments showing that fluid as well as solid lymph of the diseased peritoneum contains the virus in a very active state .
Six successful inoculations with fluid peritoneal exudation .
There is no difference of activity to be noticed between fresh exudation and one that had been kept sealed up in a capillary tube for several weeks .
Solid lymph obtained from the peritoneal cavity of diseased animals , having been dried at a temperature of about 38 C. , proves very active .
3 .
Experiments showing that parts of the diseased lung , ulcerated intestine , and also diseased spleen , contain the virus in an active state .
Diseased parts of lung or intestine , that were dried at a temperature of about 38 ' C. , retain their virulence unaltered .
In all cases of pneumo-enteritis the trachea as well as the bronchi contain frothy blood-containing mucous matter , possessed of infectious , property .
It must be , therefore , supposed that the breath of a diseased animal is charged with the poison .
On account of the diseased state of the intestine also , the dung is to be regarded as infectious .
4 .
Experiments showing that infection is prodticed by cohabitation crease its bulk and thus to facilitate its introduction .
The inoculation w as invariably carried out by injection into the subcutaneous tissue by means of a fine canula of a hypodermic syringe , necessary care being taken that this had been previously thoroughly cleaned and disinfected .
After and before inoculation the animals have always been kept isolated and in clean and disinfected places .
In order to insure reliable results ( viz. , that the disease in a particular case was really a consequence of the inoculation and not of infection through other sources ) care was taken that those who attended the isolated animals were not the carriers of infection .
Dr. .Klein on the [ Feb. 14 , with a diseased animal , or by keeping healthy animals in a place whence a diseased animal had been removed .
5 .
Several experiments were made to see whether feeding healthy animals on matter obtained from the diseased organs ( intestinal ulcers especially ) produces the disease .
The experiment was always attended with success , if an abrasion existed in the mucous membrane of the mouth or pharynx ; this was usually the case when the matter had to be introduced into the mouth while the animal was being held by assistants .
There were , however , two cases which appear to prove that the disease cannot be produced by simple feeding .
This was , unfortunately , at a time when I was not acquainted , yet , with the fact that in many animals the disease is of so mild a form that it can hardly be recognized in the living .
I did not make any post-mortem examination of those two animals .
But since then I have made two other experiments , in which the virus was brought directly into the stomach , by means of an india-rubber tube introduced per fauces et cesophagum .
In both these instances the animals became diseased and their intestines were most conspicuously affected .
From the last three series of experiments we may conclude that the principal mode by which contagion of pneumo-enteritis is carried out , is through the instrumentality of the air and the food .
6 .
This series comprises experiments to prove that the virus can be cultivated artificially , i.e. , outside the body of an animal ; in the case of splenic fever it has been successfully done by Dr. Koch .
The experiments are seven in number , ( ) , two refer to cultivations started with fluid peritoneal exudation ; ( 6 ) , in the five others the virus had been obtained by cultivation of dried lymph of the peritoneum of an animal suffering from the disease .
( a. ) The cultivation of the virus for the first two cases was carried out thus : Fluid peritoneal exudation of a diseased animal had been collected and sealed up on November 6 , in a capillary glass tube .
On the following day there was present a small clot due to coagulation .
A minute speck of this clot was removed with the point of a clean needle , and with it was inoculated a drop of fresh aqueous humour of a healthy rabbit .
This drop had been placed on a thin covering-glass , which , after the inoculation , is inverted over a small " cell , " made by fixing a glass-ring* on an ordinary glass-slide .
The covering-glass is fastened on the glass-ring by means of a thin layer of pure olive-oil .
* The glass ring I used is 0'5 to 2 millimetres high , about 2 mm. thick , and about ] 8 mm. wide .
If the preparation is to be observed on the hot-stage of the microscope , instead of the ordinary glass-slide , one of only O'5 mm. thickness is chosen in order to bring the preparation more rapidly up to the desired temperature .
1878 .
] Etiology of Infectious Diseases .
The preparation was then kept in the incubator for twenty-four hours at a temperature of 32-33 ' C. After this time it was used to inoculate a new drop of humor aqueous in a similar manner as the one just described .
We will call this the second generation .
This new specimen was placed in the incubator and kept there at a temperature of 32-33 ' C. , for further twenty-four hours .
In the same manner a third generation was started by inoculating a fresh drop of humor aqueous .
After having been kept in the incubator for several days it was used to inoculate two animals at different times .
Both animals became smitten with the disease .
( 6 .
) The other five experiments were carried out with virus cultivated from solid lymph of the peritoneum of a diseased animal .
The lymph had been dried at 38 ' C ( See Series 2 ) .
A small particle of dried lymph is crushed into fine powder .
With a granule of this a drop of fresh humor aqueous is inoculated in the same manner as above described.\#151 ; First generation .
After having been kept in the incubator for two or three days at a temperature of 32-33 ' C. , it is used to inoculate a second generation , care being taken to use a trace only of the fluid part and not to come in direct contact with the original granule , which may be still discerned in the preparation .
The specimen representing the second generation is kept in the incubator for a day or two .
It is then used to inoculate a fresh preparation.\#151 ; Third generation .
And , finally , this is used for establishing a fourth generation .
After having been kept in the incubator , a part of it is used for inoculating two animals , the inoculation being carried out at different times .
Both these animals become smitten with the disease .
Another portion of this fourth generation was used to start a fifth generation , then a sixth , a seventh , and an eighth generation .
With this three animals were inoculated at different times .
All three animals became diseased in due time .
In order to correctly interpret the results of this last ( 6th ) series of experiments , it is important to mention that inoculation with dried lymph , diluted far less than would correspond to the third generation in the last-named experiments , is followed by a negative result .
The microscopic examination of the cultivated liquids proves that these are the seat of the growth and development of a kind of bacterium , which has all the characters of bacillus subtilis ( Cohn ) .
The bacillus in our case is a very fine and delicate rod , thinner than both that described by Professor Cohn in hay-infusion , and the bacillus anthracis so thoroughly investigated by Dr. Koch .
Our bacillus differs also in other respects from that of bacillus anthracis , inasmuch as it possesses a moving stage , the bacillus anthracis described by Dr. Koch is non-moving .
Like bacillus subtilis of hay Dr. Klein .
On Infectious Diseases .
[ Feb. 14 , and bacillus anthracis , our bacillus grows under favourable conditions into long leptothrix-like filaments , which occasionally form more or less complex convolutions .
In these filaments highly refractive spores make their appearance .
These become free after the disintegration of the original filamentous matrix .
The fully developed spores of our bacillus differ from those of hay-bacillus and anthrax-bacillus by being more distinctly cylindrical and much smaller.* According to Professor Cohn ( Beitrage zur Biologie der Pflanzen II , 2 , 1876 , p. 264 ) the long diameter of the spores of bacillus of hay and also of anthrax\#151 ; for both are identical in morphological respects ( l.c. , p. 275)\#151 ; amounts to 0'0015\#151 ; 0*0022 mm. or of an inch , whereas the spores of our bacillus are little less than 0*0005 mm. or an inch in their long diameter.f At first I misinterpreted the spores , regarding them as a kind of micrococci , and only after repeated observations have I succeeded in tracing them through their different stages of development .
After many failures\#151 ; owing to the introduction and development of bacterium termo\#151 ; I succeeded at last in obtaining , already in the second generation of original virus , a pure crop of bacillus and its spores .
With these I started several separate cultivations , in which the germination of the spores into delicate bacillus , the swarming stage , the rapid multiplication by division , their growth into long apparently smooth filaments , and , under sufficient access of air , the formation of the bright cylindrical spores in them could be distinctly traced.* !
# In the figures accompanying Dr. Koch 's paper on bacillus anthracis ( Beitr .
z. Biologie d. Pflanzen ii , 2 , 1876 ) the spores are represented in many places as more or less spherical in shape .
+ In convolutions of filaments the outlines of these latter become gradually lost after the spores are formed .
The spores appear now to be embedded in a transparent gelatinous matrix .
At the edges of such masses or where they are in a sufficiently thin layer , the linear arrangement of the spores can be still recognised .
But there is undoubtedly a transparent jelly present in these masses forming the ground substance for the spores and fibres .
Professor Cohn mentions ( 1 .
c. , p. 263 ) a similar jelly in convolutions of hay-bacillus .
I entirely differ from Dr. Koch with regard to the mode of germination of the spores of bacillus .
Koch states ( 1 .
c. , p. 289 , and also in his latest paper on Bacterieeo in Biol. d. Pfl .
2 Bd .
3 Heft .
) that it is not the highly refractive spore which directly produces the bacillus , but that the hyaline gelatinous envelope surrounding each spore elongates so as to form the bacillus , while the bright spore-matter itself gradually diminishes in size and finally disappears .
From \amp ; priori reasons it is impossible to assume that this can be so , viz. , that the gelatinous envelope should grow into the bacillus ; for Cohn proved beyond doubt that in the case of hay-bacillus the spores germinate even after having been exposed to boiling heat .
Surely this gelatinous envelope , if living protoplasm , must become , under these conditions , deprived of its germinating power .
Direct observation proves that in my case the spores possess another membrane within that gelatinous envelope , and during germination this inner membrane is broken at one pole and the contents of the spore protrude and grow out as the bacillus .
This 1878 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
Use of Reflection Grating .
107 ( No other organisms appeared in these cultivations .
) These were again used to inoculate other preparations of aqueous humour , and so on , until 1 succeeded in obtaining considerable quantities of liquid , containing only bacillus and its spores .
The last-named animals were infected with liquid of this kind .
Seeing that splenic fever , pneumo-enteritis , and specific septicaemia possess a great affinity in anatomical respects , and seeing that in splenic fever and pneumo-enteritis the materies morbi is a definite species of bacillus\#151 ; the difference of species being sufficiently great to account for the differences in the two diseases\#151 ; we may with some probability expect that also the- third of the group , viz. , specific septicaemia , is due to a bacillus .
This , however , remains to be demonstrated .
It seems , finally , justifiable to speculate whether or not we have in these three varieties of disease " a variation of species " in the sense of the evolution theory .
IY .
" On the Use of the Reflection Grating in Eclipse Photography .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received February 8 , 1878 .
The results obtained by the Eclipse Expedition to Siam have lead me to think that , possibly , the method of using the Coronal atmosphere as a circular slit , suggested by Professor Young and myself for the Indian Eclipse of 1871 , might be applied under very favourable conditions , if the prism , or train of prisms , hitherto employed , were replaced by one of those reflection gratings with which the generosity of Mr. Rutherfurd has endowed so many of our observers .
To test this notion I have made some experiments with a grating , which I Owe to Mr. Rutherfurd 's kindness , containing 17,280 lines to the inch .
The results of these observations I have now the honour of laying before the Royal Society .
In front of the lens of an ordinary electric lamp , which lens was adjusted to throw a parallel beam , I introduced a circular aperture , cut in cardboard , forming an almost complete ring , some 2 inches in interior diameter , the breadth of the ring being about ^ inch .
This was my artificial eclipse .
At a distance from the lamp of about 13 yards , I mounted a 3f inch Cooke telescope , of 54 inches focal length .
Some distance short of this focus I placed Mr. Rutherfurd 's grating , and , where the first order spectrum fell , I placed a focussing screen .
To adjust for sharp focus , in the first instance , the grating was so inclined to the axis of is also in accordance with the observations of Professor Cohn , for this authority states ( 1 .
c. , p. 265 ) " Die Sporen schwollen etwas an und trieben an einem End einen kurzen Keimschlauch .
"

