236 Messrs. W. E. Bullock and W. Cramer .
getting strictly comparable sets of birds .
The laboratory conditions with strict control of diet and proper collection of excrement are not very suitable for keeping birds in health for a prolonged period .
One of us is , however , extending his observations to the study of growing rats , which can be much more suitably reared and controlled , and hopes shortly to be able to publish an account of his experiments .
The results given in this paper , however , taken in conjunction with the fact that , in the differentiation of the ovum into the complex aggregate of cells constituting the chicken , no formation of cholesterol takes place , appear to support the view formerly expressed that cholesterol is not readily synthesised in the organism .
We take this opportunity of expressing our thanks to the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society for assistance in carrying out this work .
Contributions to the Biochemistry of Growth*\#151 ; On the Lipoids of Transplantable Tumours of the Mouse and the Rat .
By W. E. Bullock and W. Cramer .
( Communicated by Sir John Bradford , Sec. R.S. Received October 1 , \#151 ; Read November 20 , 1913 .
) ( From the Chemical Laboratory of the Physiology Department , Edinburgh University , and the Imperial Cancer Research Fund , London .
) The following observations were carried out with the object of obtaining information concerning the presence of lipoid substances in rapidly growing cells .
Our observations were made on transplantable tumours of mice and rats , which , as we have pointed out in previous papers of this series , are especially suitable for the study of the biochemical problems of growth .
So far as we are aware , neither qualitative nor quantitative observations on the presence of lipoids in these tumours have as yet been made .
The analytical method employed w'as the same as the one used in our observations on normal and degenerating nerves.f The fact that by means of this method 99 to 101 per cent , of the total lipoids present in normal * This research is in continuation of papers in ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1908 , vol. 80 , p. 263 ; 1910 , vol. 82 , pp. 307 and 316 ; 1913 , vol. 86 , p. 302 .
t Cramer , Feiss and Bullock , ' Proc. Physiol. Soc. , ' 1913 , p. li , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 46 .
Contributions to the Biochemistry of Growth .
23 nervous tissue\#151 ; which is free from ordinary non-phosphorised fat\#151 ; can be accounted for is an indication of the accuracy of the method .
Details of the method will be published in a separate paper .
Here it may be sufficient to indicate the principle of the method , which consists in extracting the total lipoids by chloroform , and estimating in aliquot portions of the extracts : ( 1 ) the cholesterin and cholesterin esters by Windaus ' method , using certain precautions which are essential for the accuracy of the results ; ( 2 ) the phosphatides by a phosphorus estimation ; ( 3 ) the cerebrosides by estimating the galactose liberated after prolonged acid hydrolysis ; ( 4 ) the ordinary non-phosphorised fats ( glycerides of fatty acids ) by difference .
In calculating the phosphatides and cerebrosides from the data obtained by this method , it is assumed that the average phosphorus percentage of the phosphatides and the galactose content of the cerebrosides present in the tumour cells do not differ essentially from the figures known for the phosphatides and cerebrosides of nervous tissue .
It is , of course , possible that this assumption is not correct .
In that case a recalculation of the figures given in this paper for the phosphatides and cerebrosides would be necessary .
But since our arguments are based on a. comparison between the figures obtained for different strains of tumours , such a correction would not materially affect our conclusions .
In fact , in the case of the cerebrosides , for which the differences between different tumour-strains are\#151 ; as will be seen\#151 ; so great as to become qualitative , this possible source of error can be disregarded .
The observations refer to a rapidly growing rat sarcoma , and to two different strains of a mammary carcinoma of the mouse , of which one always grows rapidly ( 63/ 73b ) , while the other always grows slowly ( 72/ 21a and 72/ 22a ) .
Since the rapidly growing mouse carcinoma showed marked necrosis , the macroscopically necrotic parts were separated from the less necrotic portion of the tumour and analysed separately .
These two parts are described in the following table as " necrotic part " and " healthy part '* respectively ; but it must be understood that even in the macroscopically healthy parts there was still a good deal of necrotic tissue .
The rat sarcoma showed little necrosis .
The material subjected to analysis was obtained in the case of each strain from several tumours belonging to the same subtransplantation .
The figures given in the following table represent therefore the composition of the lipoids of a number of sister tumours at one particular period of their growth , for the three tumour strains ; they do not merely indicate the composition of one individual tumour .
VOL. lxxxvii.\#151 ; B. s Messrs. W. E. Bullock and W. Cramer .
Analysis of Lipoids of Transplantable Tumours .
Carcinoma of mouse .
Slow growth .
No necrosis .
Carcinoma of mouse .
Rapid growth .
Sarcoma of rat .
Rapid growth .
No necrosis .
Healthy part .
Necrotic part .
Dry tissue .
Total Lipoids .
Dry tissue .
Total Lipoids .
Dry tissue .
Total Lipoids .
Dry tissue .
Total Lipoids .
per cent. per cent. per cent. per cent. per cent. per cent. per cent. per cent. Total lipoids 13-3 \#151 ; 13*1 \#151 ; 41 *1 \#151 ; 18 5 \#151 ; Cholesterin 1 -1 8'8 Trace 0 Trace 0 1-4 7*8 Cholesterin esters 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Phosphatides 0-88 6*6 1-8 9*7 2*54 6 -2 7*2 38 -8 Cerebrosides 0 0 0 0 Trace ?
0 1-9 10 1 Ordinary fats 11 -32 84-6 11 *8 90 *3 38 *56 93 8 8-0 43 -3 A comparison of the slowly growing mouse tumour with the healthy parts of the rapidly growing mouse tumour shows that ( 1 ) the percentage of total lipoids is practically the same ; ( 2 ) cholesterin forms 1 per cent , of the total solids of the slowly growing tumour , while it is present only in traces in the rapidly growing tumour ; ( 3 ) phosphatides form only a small proportion of both tumours , though they are more abundant in the rapidly growing tumour ; ( 4 ) both tumours are devoid of cerebrosides and cholesterin esters ; and ( 5 ) , that the bulk of the total lipoids of these two tumours consists of ordinary fats .
The change in composition brought about by necrosis is shown by a comparison of the figures for the healthy and necrotic parts of the rapidly growing tumour .
The most conspicuous feature of the change is the increase in total lipoids , which are trebled in amount , the increase consisting to a great extent of ordinary fat , and to a less extent of phosphatides .
A trace of a reducing substance is liberated by acid hydrolysis from the lipoids of the necrotic parts , but whether this can be taken as an indication of the formation of small amounts of cerebrosides during necrosis must for the present remain doubtful .
It is of particular interest to note that different strains of mammary mouse carcinoma may show such wide variations in chemical composition , as is shown here between the relative proportion of different lipoids , and more especially of cholesterin .
It has been pointed out in numerous papers from the Imperial Cancer Eesearch Fund that marked biological differences exist between the cells of different tumour-strains , even although these cells may originally be derived from the same tissue ( mamma ) .
It is interesting to note that there exist also chemical differences between cells derived from the same tissue .
Contributions to the Biochemistry of Growth .
239 It is , of course , tempting to refer these differences to differences in the rate of growth .
But such a conclusion can only be based on a systematic series of analyses carried out with different strains , and with the same strain at different periods of its growth .
Such observations are now being carried out by one of us ( W. E. B. ) .
When we compare the lipoids of tumours derived from different tissues\#151 ; namely , a rat sarcoma with a mouse carcinoma\#151 ; we find very marked differences , both quantitatively and qualitatively .
The amount of total lipoids present in the sarcoma does not differ very markedly from that present in the carcinomata , especially when we take into account that the analyses refer to two different species .
But there is a complete change in the proportion in which the various lipoids are present .
While in the two carcinomata the bulk of the total lipoids is made up of ordinary non-phosphorised fats , and phosphorised fats are present only in relatively small amounts ( from 7 to 10 per cent , of total lipoids ) , the phosphorised fats of the sarcoma represent almost 40 per cent , of the total lipoids and equal in amount the ordinary non-phosphorised fats .
Cholesterin is present in quantities similar to those found in the slowly growing carcinoma , while cholesterin esters are absent both in the sarcoma and in the carcinomata .
Perhaps the most interesting feature is the presence in the sarcoma cells of definite amounts of cerebrosides ( 2 per cent , of dry tissue ) .
These lipoid substances are completely absent from the two mammary carcinomata which we have analysed , and the question arises , whether this qualitative chemical difference is typical for carcinoma and sarcoma , or whether it is exhibited merely by individual tumour-strains .
This problem , again , must remain a subject for further inquiry .
Summary .
The cells of different strains of transplantable tumours show quantitative and qualitative differences in the various groups of lipoid substances present .
Such differences exist not only between tumour-cells derived from different tissues\#151 ; namely , a sarcoma and a carcinoma , but also , although not to the same extent , between two different strains of tumour-cells derived from the same tissue\#151 ; namely , a slowly growing and a rapidly growing mammary carcinoma .
Necrotic tumour-cells show a great increase in the amount of total lipoids present , the increase being due mainly to an increase in ordinary non-phosphorised fats .
The expenses of this research were defrayed by grants from the Moray Fund of the University of Edinburgh .

