]\gt ; As to the i ons obtnined rnlH ( osifion llnifonl .
, is accoml ) ) by the ) .
of ods .
.316 Prof. O. Reynolds on certain Dimensional When the condition of the gas varies from point to point , molecules are considered as consisting of two groups , one from the positive and the other the negative side of the Considered in opposite directions , the mean characterishcs number , mass , momentum , or energy ) of these two groups are ncccssal.ily equal .
They may differ in consequence of the motion the gas , the motion of the plane ough the gas , or a varying dition of gas , and the determination of the effect of these particularly the last , on the mass , momentum and energy that may carried cross by either or both groups constitutes the extension dynamical theory of gases .
In order to take account of the lifference in the two groups assumed , and so far there is nothin new in the assumption that the group of molecules crosses the surface from either will partake of the characteristics of the gas in the region from the ] nolcculcs which constif tlto the group have come .
The first step in vestigation is the deduction from the tion of ( I anLl II ) , supposing that there are no forces .
be the .
value of on the that the is in the mean which holds the point , the theorems I and admit of exprettsion : \mdash ; Where represents a certain distance , measured from the plane This distance , , ellters as a quantity of primary importance all the results of the investigation .
It is proposed to call the mean range of the quantity , so as distinguish it from the lllcan path of a molecule .
is a function of the mean path , but it also depends on the nature of the impacts between the molccules .
It is ) sequent ] shown from it appears that The dynamical conditions of btendy density , steady momentum , stcady energy are then considered .
ting ( Q ) for the value of in a unit of volume , in ordel .
may be steady , have\mdash ; whencc , ) .
to the valuc , the of a molecule , ttel ' the Gaseon .
State .
condition of steady density , for steady momentum ally values for stcady .
The eqnatious of motion hell applied to the cases it is tho ob , icct of this fation to .
Two cases are The first case is that of a ature and pressure only along particnlar direction , so that the isothermal snrfaces the surfnces of prcssurc ; is case trchlip ' The second case is in which the of cqual pressure are curved ( whether of ' or double ; this is the case of As regards first case , the colldiio]t of proved to of no importance , but from the conditions of momcntu1n and density , tion is obtnined between the of the the ltttc at which telnperafure vnrics , and the pressure , the coelhcicnt bein of bsolute of the gas , of the ) , and the of these to are limitidiio]s of the the cnsity is very or ] The most .
this which is the mcaYl velocity iVltsp .
} Llbc , which in of is the lnolccnlc , of ncro tubo. .
In which ) on the of , scction of tubc .
of the is initc , and is ) is Prof. O. ] on certain Dimensional and are zero when is zero , and unity when is All functions varying continuously between the limits ascribed .
Also \mdash ; on tlJe nature of the surface of the tube , but not the nature of the gas , while and may depend both upon the gas and the surface .
From this equation , which ] is general equation of the experimental results , both ] to thermal nspiration under pressure , are deduced .
doaling with second case , that in which the surfaces curved , the three conditions\mdash ; steady density , itnd energy\mdash ; are all of important .
These conditions to an equation between motions of gas variation in the absolute temperature and the variation in pressure , with which involve the ratio of the mean to the dimensions of the radii of ature of the surfaces .
equation corresponds to the equation of transpiration , and to the case in which heat is .
conducted constrained to remain at rest , the equation becomes\mdash ; , or , .
the excess of pressure in the direction of , and due to , tion of temperature .
the abstract of a paper in last , Professor Maxwell gives an equation which , transformed into symbols is\mdash ; , which only differs from mine in coefficient \mdash ; 3 .
As that hc obtained his hout of the strcsses , this differellcc is not a Bcsides the broad lines of ntion Wvc been ioned in this , thore are many minor of

