]\gt ; 470 Prof. G. G. Stokes .
On a Simple [ Feb. Cristobal were observed at the time of the earthquake to be covered by clouds of , to all appearance , gaseous vapour ; and the Padre Bravo , Curate of Lilio , asserts , that the movement of Banajoa wae awfuI to behold that residents of that village , situated at the of the mountain , feared that it would over and bury them beneath it .
The two sheets containing diagrams of the five principal shocks were lithographed at Manila , under the careful supervision of Father Faura , and I thought it better to send them as received rather than attempt a tracing , the lines being so complicated .
I have not .
appended a translation of the few descriptive notes on the sheets , a\amp ; the terms used are almost identical with their signification . .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered them .
The following Papers were read : \mdash ; I. " " On a Simple Mode of Eliminating Errors of Adjustment in Delicate Observations of Compared Spectra By Professor G. G. STOKES , Sec. B.S. Received February 12 , 1881 .
Whem the identity or difference of position of two lines , bright or dark , in the spectra of two lights from different sources has to be compared with the utmost degree of accuracy , they are admitted simultaneously into different but adjacent parts of the slit of a spectroscope and viewed together .
It was thus , .
instance , that Dr. Huggins proceeded in determining the radial component of the velocity of the heavenly bodies relatively to the earth .
It is requisite that the two lights that are to be compared should fall in a perfectly similar manner on the slit : and it will be seen , from a perusal of his how careful .
Huggins was in this respect .
In a paper read before the Royal Society on the 3rd instant , Mr. Stone has proposed to make the observation independent of a posslble .
error in the exact coincidence of the lights compared by constructing a reversible spectroscope , by which the light should be refracted alternately right and left , supposing for facility of explanation slit to be vertical .
1881.Mode of Errors of stment , The idea is an elegant one , but I apprehend that there would be considerable difficulty in carrying it out .
For a spectroscope giving large dispersion is of considerable weight , and the reversal of so heavy an apparatus would be liable to introduce possible errors arising from : flexure .
* It would be difficult to make sure that such did not exist , at any rate , unless the instrument were constructed with great nicety and firmness , which would add considerably to the cost ; and even then the care and time required for the reversal would help to obliterate the observer 's memory of what he had seen in the first position of the instrument .
A method has occurred to me of effecting the reversal without reversing the spectroscope , but merely a lateral push to a little apparatus which need not weigh more than a few grains .
If the base of an isosceles prism be polished as well as the sides , and a ray of light parallel to the base and in a plane perpendicular to the edge fall on one of the equal sides of the prism so as to from the other , after suffering an -intermediate reflection ( which will necessarily be total ) at the base , its course after refraction will be parallel to its course before incidence ; and there will , moreover , be no lateral displacement , provided the lateral distance of the base from the incident ray be such that the point of reflection is at the middle of the base .
If the slit of the spectroscope be covered by such a prism , placed close to the slit and facing the collimating lens , to the axis of which its base is paralle ] , it will not disturb the general course of the light incident on the spectroscope , nor even produce a lateral displacement provided the lateral position be that mentioned above ; but in consequence of the reflection there will be a reversal as regards right and left , and any error in the placing of the lights to be compared will thus be detected and eliminated , by comparing the spectra seen with the light from the slit direct or reflected .
If the prism be placed quite close to the slit it may be made very minute in section , though it should be long to cover the slit , and then the change of focus which it will be insignificant .
There will be no need , however , to make the prism so very minute , nor to place it so cIose to the slit , provided it be associated with a plate to take its place in the direct observation , and compensate for the change of focus which is produced by its introduction .
Let ABCD be a section of the prism , let be the middle point of the base AB , KLMNO the course of a ray passing as above described .
which is supposed to be the axis of the pencil coming through the * After the present paper was sent in to the Society , I was informed by Mr. Sfone that the spectroscope he had in his mind was a one , tvhicJl could bs turned in its socket , the slit and ical lens remnining fixed .
such an trument the objection as to flexure would not pply .
V0L .
472 On Eliminating Errors of Adjustment , .
[ Feb. middle of the slit .
Let be the angle of incidence , which will be half the angle of the prism , and the complement of either angle A or the angle of refraction , the index of refraction , the base AB , the length of path , , of the ray within the glass , .
In spectroscopic work it is the focus of rays in the primary plane that we have to deal with ; and we get for the shortening ( s ) of the focus , or , in other words , the distance by which the slit is virtually brought nearer to the collimating lens , But since MBL and MLC we have ; also ; whence where is the thickness of a compensating plate which shall produce the same shortening of focus .
In the figure , the part of the prism which is out of use is represented as cut away , to make the instrument more compact , and EFGH represents the compensating plate .
The faces CD of the truncated prism , and ] ] , HG , of the plate , of course need not be polished , and had better perhaps be blackened .
In the figure I have taken for the angle of the prism , and supposed to be , which data give , nearly .
A blunter angle would have made the instrument a little more compact in the direction AB , but I wished to avoid needless loss of light by the two reflections that accompany the refractions .
The size of the plism and compensating plate must depend upon its distance from the slit , and 1881 .
] Notes on Physixal .
473 the augle ubtended at the slit by the objective of the collimabor .
It should be a little ]arger than what is just sufficient to take the largest pencil that is to be observed , but not beyond that .
The ob.iect in keeping it as small as conveniently may be , is that only a trifling change of focus may be required when the instrument is pushed aside altogether , and the slit viewed directly through spectroscope , without ths loss of due to the two reflections .
The ting plate is represented as placed at the narrow end of the prism , which permits of the two being cemented t , oge .
there , cilitating the support .
I do not think that the mlnue of light which is reflected at , and scattered at the surface ( even though blackened ) FC in such a direction as to mingle with direct light would be any inconvenience , being too faint to be visible at all .
If it were wished to avoid this , or to get more easy access to the surfaces AD , BC , for cleaning if requisite , the plate be laced at the other side ; but in that case it must not be cemented to AB , as that surface is wanted for-total refiection .
The little instrument I have suggested may convenient ] be called a slit-reverser , to distinguish it from other arrangements which been proposed , and in which the spectrum itself is reversed .
P.S. Feb. 21.\mdash ; The method proposed above is more directly applicable to such an object as the comparison of really or apparently coincident lines in the spectra of two elements than to astronomical measurements , because in the latter case a part of the difficulty arises from a want of pel .
fact accuracy in the clockwork movement of the equatoreal .
Yet I cannot help thinking that even for astronomical work the method will be found useful ; for we can pass in a moment from the direct to the reflected image of the slit , vice taking the measures alternately in the two modes , and them exactly as in with , balance that is still error progressive with the time would tend to be ] iminated .
II .
' Notes on Physical Geology .
No. .
On the Secular Inequalities in Terrestrial Climates depending 011 the Perihelion Longitude and Eccentricity of the ) 's Orbit By the Rev. HAUGHTON , Professor of Geology 111 the University of Dublin .
Beceived February 19 , 1881 .
The attention of geologists was first called by M. , and afterwards more fully by Mr. James Croll , to the ible importance of these long inequalities in climate , in .
the climates of geological periods , which differ considerably from those of the present

