]\gt ; of the " " The stitution of the Electric Spark By .S .
, and eceived January lary 2 , 1899 .
electric passes ) ctween m electrodcs , the spectrnm of the , not only io with the electrodcs , ) etches often cross , from pole to pole .
It follows the short time of the ttion of the , the metal to nces .
The tion uldcrtaken primarily to sure this velueit , with the view of ring different lines of the metal .
blished , in the 1862 , tcrcsting r , in which ) poles Hcction from .
Ife could from his some COllc c on the ject , it lccc the light should be .
sent th oscope , so to the hnnnnous ticles of those of the meted poles .
The method of the mirrol tried .
the coursc ome of us , did not sllcccssful .
On results vere obtained once on the method ixon , in his rehes o-plosive } This ethod ( in phic film the of is ' its snceess to } so essio of its spccon the filnl .
the ] ] eons , the on with those on is not to be .
The lines fonlt( to ) ( their tiou s to of of ticlcs .
The , on tho htly icned .
To of the to fly hcel fixed 1 onnd it in of the disc 1st by the ) tific I Conl .
The fihn ] } the disc , ( is kcpt } place by disc , ) htly to the .
Tho of ) , in tho lcft cred the disc .
An clcctIic moto ] .
dves the disc , cities of 170 tnrl)iments the lnnl ) of Messrs. A. chustcl .
and G. Hemsalech .
revolutions was gener about ) , giving a velocity of about 100 metrcs , second for that of the film on which the photograph was The rges were obtained from a ) ttery of six Leyden jars , it microfarad , and being charged from in( constructed for us ) .
H. C. )yinlshurst .
This twelve plates of 62 cm .
diameter , and gives sparks which iuchcs long .
The electrodes were , as , placed 1 an image of the was projected on the slit of the oscope , the distance of the slit from the electrodes being to four times the focal length of the projcctin lens , so that the equad in size to the spark .
The prism nsed made by Steinheil , and ] a refracting angle of We may now pass to the of the results )tained when the spectrum of single spark is taken on a film .
A preliminary Vith various metallic electrodes had shown us that the sharpest rosnJts were )tained with } we therefore chose that for our first tion .
The principal lines of zinc as appear on our photographs the line , the least ngible of the two having a wave-length , and the triplet , the wavelength of the leading line being .
All the lines are cnrved on the raphs taken with the spinning disc , but the displacements , especially the poles , are )ject to considorable tions .
This is due to the that the path of the rticles is not straight , and , if , its image does llot nccessarily coincidc with the slit .
A very shght error in rement ill also affect the when bhe tot displaccment sured is small .
Our results do not for this reason ns at prescnt to give any opinion as to the maximtun velocity of the particles near the but if these are considcral ) , they drop down very quickly speeds which , in the of zinc , are far off metre We adopted two methods of trison betwcen different the place measul.ed the displ ccments at a nlmlbcr of , and from these ments we deduced the time ) for metadlic molecule to pass from the pole to point 2 mm. from it .
If this method be applied in every case , it wonld form rational istcnl 1 of .
But the curved lines which are to be snred a often very liflnse lleal the pole ; this , and the continnous render i6 possible to ctory m that point .
In order not to have to reject unnecessarily a large ltnlber of the spectrum the pole was distinct , lve nother method , which , though less than the first , is to give consistent results .
rom all our measurcments we may deducc figures for the molecular velocities dificrent and Tlnj Consti tution ' Spar points 011 the tphs , and may take the of these the mean velocity of the particlc .
In the in the refers to the velocity the a point lllm .
from it , while refers to the vclocity taken nces , .
as just The of chonge 11 the length of the in the C of zinc , the its the esnlts .
As the aro near the pole , the of hods of rement could be applied .
in of Zinc first striking resnlt to be lced f the the lmilornly dednced the ) line comwith } one of the lines of the triplct snred ; { or we the first lines of the triplet by the third is so much nlixed lines in its onrhood t it cannot ) .
It of the ) .
of possil ) this cccmtted f ) the of the spect ] nn ] not tho crtheless to ) the cloc ity c'l to this .
This Ii has ) one of line , is not ) the the movi Iilm .
the tho , the of mponcnt of the the I ngii the the of the light is } the lines , to the motion of the out .
The nlost i of tho will here ] ) where the two lines osed , ttIld vishing to set the .
on the e of the line , we bhould ) .
A. Schustel and .
Hemsalech .
tempted to set it on the edge of the componcnt .
There tson to beliove that this is the cause of the deflectiol of the donl ) line , and the photographs show some si that if this source of error is elimmated , the molecule giving the double line moves more quickly than that rise to the triplet .
We reserve the of this point lmtil we have been to apply greater dispersion .
Compring the sparks obtained with difierent pacities , it is that when the spark gap is small , there seems a very cnrious of velocity the capacity increases ; this is not what should have ) expected at first sight , as with the large ntlmber of jars we expect higher tnres , and therefore greater velocity of When the spark gap cm .
, the experiments do not reveal any marked change dne to capacity .
When the gap is increased still further the sparks become very and umsteady , and no collchs]ons can be drawn from our .
the numbers with a query are .
]yhen six jars nsed ctically idcntical nnml ) obtained for all rking d with small pacity the centimetre spark seems to give lower result th in the } other casos .
yhile we should not like at present to consider this an estllished result , the table serves to show that centimetre spark the highest pacity used .
the most C011sistent nnml ) , and experiments other mndc under these conditions , except in the of ismnth , where were ined with only two ring difierent metals with , we find in the that those having tively low weights , and magnesium , highcr velocities .
the metal ponr is scattered ) Ollt to such an extent that no mcasurcments could ) , but the velocity of the minium molccule to be over three times as that of , the not ving to zinc and cadmium with each other , we ) most i ) for the corrcsponding doublet and triplcts .
Bismnth resnlts .
In spite of its tomic eight some of the lines are but littlc displaced , culal vclocity of 14 ] .
For othel lines the falls ) to of hile one line ) a still velocity .
1Vc not ) results with hosc in which poles lsed wcro of zinc or , which COVCl'ed with .
Differences in moleculal velocitics ined flificl .
lines , ) the xesnlt is not so with .
There is ) viously no these with tho tomic eight .
stitntion of the Electric Sparl Dr. Fedderselt led his rehes to the sion that the , allic ticlcs fter being o1lce torn off from the electrodes by took no fnrther part in it , but were thrown regularly into th undingc the electrodes independently of the electric .
Althongh in some cases , and espeoially with magnesium poles , there is some evidcncc that this is trne , we are led to take modified vie of the matter .
The dischnrge of the jar takes place throngh the air ; it must .
there is at no met llic vapour present .
The intense hcat the electric rrent vtilises the metal , then to from the poles ; the stlscque1l oscillations of the take place through the metallic vapours and not through the find tion of this view in a striking experiment is epcated .
If a coil of wire ) inserted in the spark c.il'cnit of Lcyden hich charged either ) a imshurst indnctio1t roil , the ] ines d almost completely , metallic .
According to our view we should the erinlCllt 1 ) saying that the coil which adds self-indnclcngthe1ls the ' of the , and time for the molcculcs to diflnse properly into the .
A great of the may then do work ) ting the molecules tead of those of an .
Mr. in investigating the changes the the tion of self-induction .
The first sp ) tbsing through the air will ve sound hich , the complete time of the will only travel fe nlillimct ] es .
therefore consider the of metalset force is by its into the the heated air .
It would re c.orrect to to of under into a to of pure diffusion .
not much may iake it oxperiinlatcly msured the velocity of sound in the .
This es tion betwcen .
If { tliffcrences in the of specific } clnl ) the donsit cfcl red .
Thus the fonnd hich .
Hcncc ) th the of is mllch s tho ) of the 1 some PrococdincJs of was directly ssed on the sensitive film without the interposition of the prism .
The photographs show a straight image of the slit followed by a number of curved bands extending from both poles into the spark gap .
The straight image we consider to be the initial through air creating sufficient heat to fill the space with vapour through which the oscillati]ug discharges may then pass .
Our experiments point to the fact that the periodic time was rather too small in onr experiments to give the best results .
The metallic molecule Jefore it has had time to reach ough a sufficient distance was possibly affected in its motion by the subsequent .
We hope to remedy this defect introducing still higher capacities than those used .
Our experiments allow us to give the following approximate numerical data .
The air rendered luminous by the firbt discharge remains luminons a time of about second , the metallic xponrs then begin to diffuse and reach the centre of the spark ( the bein .
long ) in a time which in the case of dminm was second .
The periodic time of the oscillations onr six jars a circuit possessing as little uion as possible was ) second .
The metallic remain lumin-ous in the centre of the spark for longer period than near the poles , the of the time which some luminosity can be traced arge from six Lcyden jars ) second . .
The ORD LISTER , F.R.C. , D.C.L. , ident , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents rece-ved was on the table , and ordered for them .
The following pers were read : I. ' On the licflection of thodc F\ldquo ; A. A. C. , F.R.S. II .
" " the of \ldquo ; B.Sc. , F.R.S. III .
" " A Soil of the .
C. .
'

