70 The Hon. It .
J. Strutt .
Note on the [ July 7 , The fourth , and last , part deals with the expansion of functions of positive and negative type in a series of products of normal functions .
It is eventually proved that , if ^i(s ) , i|r2(s ) , ... , in(s ) , ... are a complete system of normal functions relating to a function / c ( s , t ) of either type , and Xi , \2 , Xn , ... are the corresponding singular values , then the series y jrn ( S ) yfrn ( t ) n= 1 ^\#187 ; converges both absolutely and uniformly , and its sum function is k ( s , t ) .
Note on the Spontaneous Luminosity of a Uranium Mineral .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , M.A. , F.B.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received July 7 , 1909 .
) Rumours of luminosity having been observed in Cornish minerals , in the dark , are not infrequent .
I have myself been told of such phenomena by rustics in the mining district , and more than one correspondent has mentioned something similar .
None of the accounts have , however , been sufficiently precise to carry conviction , or to afford much clue for further investigation .
They have in many cases been obviously exaggerated .
Mr. P. W. Rudler* has quoted a remark by the late Mr. Garby that specimens of uranite " when first discovered by the miners in Huel Buller and Huel Basset were very phosphorescent , so much so that after the lights were extinguished many of the crystals might be discovered in situ , " f and he has suggested that this may be in some way connected with the self luminosity of radio-active bodies .
The observation would seem to have been made by the miners , not by a scientific observer , and it is implied that the luminosity was of the nature of ordinary phosphorescence , and due to previous exposure to light .
Recently examining a specimen of uranite ( autunite ) , I was struck by its resemblance to the artificially prepared uranium salts , and it occurred to me that in all probability it would be found to exhibit the spontaneous * ' Handbook to Minerals of the British Islands/ published by the Geological Survey .
t 4 Trans. Koy .
Geol .
Soc. Cornwall/ vol. 7 ( 1865 ) , p. 86 .
Nothing more that is relevant will be found in this .
1909 .
] Spontaneous Luminosity of a Uranium Mineral .
71 luminosity observed in these by H. Becquerel , * which is attributable to fluorescence of the substance under the action of* its own radio-activity .
Experiment confirmed this anticipation .
The mineral is easily perceived in a perfectly dark room by a well rested eye .
There is no difficulty in walking up to it from a distance and touching it , without any other guidance than the luminosity .
Autunite is more luminous than uranium nitrate , but less so than potassium uranyl sulphate .
This effect is quite independent of previous exposure to light .
Such exposure only leaves an after glow in uranium salts of very short duration .
It cannot be detected without the phosphoroscope .
The specimens in which I have observed the luminosity are some recently raised in Portugal , which I owe to the kindness of Mr. A. de Vere Hunt .
Old specimens from Cornwall and from Autun do not exhibit it .
The loss of luminosity is connected with a loss of water of crystallisation .
This was established experimentally by sealing up a specimen in an exhausted glass tube with phosphoric anhydride .
In a few hours the latter had deliquesced considerably , while the autunite had lost both its luminosity in the dark , and also the green fluorescent shimmer which it had previously exhibited in daylight .
Some uranium salts are known to be much more fluorescent than others , and there is nothing specially surprising in the fact that a loss of water is accompanied by a loss of brilliancy .
It has been thought worth while to publish this note as affording an explanation of the somewhat mysterious stories referred to .
The luminosity of autunite has , moreover , a certain natural history interest , as a radio-active effect which can be observed without any materials or instruments other than those which nature has provided .
It is curious to reflect by what a circuitous route this simple observation has been reached .
* 'Comptes Eendus/ vol. 138 ( 1904 ) , p. 184 .

