VI .
A few facts relative to the colouring matters of some vegetables .
By James Smithson , Esq. F. R. S. Read December 18 , 1817 .
1 BEGAN , a great many years ago , some researches on the colouring matters of vegetables .
From the enquiry being to be prosecuted only at a particular season of the year , the great delicacy of the experiments , and the great care required in them , and consequently the trouble with which they were attended , very little was done .
I have now no idea of pursuing the subject .
In destroying lately the memorandums of the experiments which had been made , a few scattered facts were met with which seemed deserving of being preserved .
They are here offered , in hopes that they will induce som-e other person to give extension to an investigation interesting to chemistry and to the art of dying .
Turnsol .
M. FouRCROY has advanced , somewhere , that turnsol is essentially of a red colour ; and that it is made blue by an addition of carbonate of soda to it ; and he says that he has extracted this salt from the turnsol of the shops .
If turnsol contained carbonate of soda , its infusions should precipitate earths and metals from acids .
I did not find an infusion of turnsol in water to have the least effect on solutions of muriate of lime , nitrate of lead , muriate of platina , or oxalate of potash .
Its tinctures , or infusions , consequently , contain neither any alkali , nor any lime ; nor probably any acid , either loose or combined .
This is unfavourable to the opinion of urine being employed in the preparation of turnsol .
I put a little sulphuric acid into a tincture of turnsol , then added chalk , and heated ; and the blue colour was restored .
It appears , therefore , that the natural colour of turnsol is not red , but blue , since it is such when neither disengaged acid or alkali is present .
No addition of chalk brought the cold liquor back to a blue colour ; the carbonic acid absorbed by it , during the effervescence of the carbonate of lime , being sufficient to keep it red .
Some turnsol was put into distilled vinegar .
An effervescence arose ; and after some time the acid was become neutralized .
On examining the mixture with a glass , there were seen , at the bottom of the vessel , a multitude of grains like sand .
It was found on trial that these grains were carbonate of lime ; probably of slightly calcined Carrara marble .
When turnsol is treated with water till this no longer acquires any colour whatever , the remaining insoluble matter is nearly as blue as at first .
Acids made this blue insoluble matter red , but did not extract any red tincture .
Carbonate of soda did not affect it .
If the vegetable part of this blue residuum is burned away , or it is washed off with water , a portion of smalt is obtained .
On exhaling , on a water bath , a tincture of turnsol9 the L ; olouring matter is left in a dry state .
11I This matter heated in a platina spoon over a candle , tumefied considerably , as much as starch does , became black and smoked , but did not readily inflame , nor did it burn away till the blowpipe was applied .
It then burned pretty readily , leaving a large quantity of a white saline matter .
This saline matter saturated by nitric acid afforded crystals of nitrate of potash , and some minute crystals like hydrous sulphate of lime .
Is this potash merely that portion of this matter which exists in all vegetable substances ?
or is the colouring matter of turnsol a compound , analogous to ulmin , of a vegetable principle and potash ?
Its low combustibility gives some sanction to this idea .
Of the colouring matter of the violet .
The violet is well known to be coloured by a blue matter which acids change to red ; and alkalies and their carbonates first to green and then to yellow .
This same matter is the tinging principle of many other vegetables : of some , in its blue state ; of others , made red by an acid .
If the petals of the red rose are triturated with a little water and carbonate of lime , a blue liquor is obtained .
Alkalis , and soluble carbonates of alkalis , render this blue liquor green ; and acids restore its red colour .
The colouring matter of the violet exists in the petals of red clover , the red tips of those of the common daisy of the fields , of the blue hyacinth , the holly hock , lavender , in the inner leaves of the artichoke , and in numerous other flowers .
It likewise , made red by an acid , colours the skin of several 11q plumbs , and , I think , of the scarlet geranium , and of the pomegranate tree .
The red cabbage , and the rind of the long radish are also coloured by this principle .
It is remarkable that these , on being merely bruised , become blue ; and give a blue infusion with water .
It is probable that the reddening acid in these cases is the carbonic ; and which , on the rupture of the vessels which enclose it , escapes into the atmosphere , Of sugar-loaf paper .
This paper has been employed by BERGMAN as a chemical instrument .
I.am ignorant of what it is coloured with .
Sulphuric , muriatic , nitric , phosphoric , and oxalic acids make it red .
Tartaric and citric acids , made rather yellow spots than red ones .
Distilled vinegar , and acid of amber , had no effect on it .
Carbonate of soda and caustic potash did not alter the blue colour of this paper .
Water boiled on this paper acquired a vinous red colour ; carboinate of lime put into this red liquor , did not affect its colour : nor did carbonate of soda or caustic potash change it to blue or green .
Cold dilute sulphuric acid extracted a strong yellow tincture from this boiled paper : carbonate of lime put to this yellow tincture made it blue ; but on filtering , the liquor which passed was of a dirty greenish colour ; and sulphuric acid did rot make it red : a blue matter was left on the filter , which was not made red by acetous acid ; but was so by sulphuric , DCCCXVIII .
Q 113 After this treatment the paper remained brown ; seemingly such as it was before being dyed blue .
It should seem that there are at least two colouring matters in this paper ; one red , which is extricable from it by water ; the other blue , which requires the agency of an acid to extract it .
Its insolubility in water , and low degree of sensibility to acids , distinguish the blue matter from turnsol ; to which its not being affected by alkalis otherwise much approximate it .
Its easy solubility in dilute sulphuric acid , and being reddened by it and several other acids , show it not to be indigo .
Of the black mulberry .
The expressed juice of this fruit is of a fine red colour .
Caustic potash made it green , which gradually became yellow .
Carbonate of soda did not make it green , but only blue .
Carbonate of ammonia changed it to a vinous red , rather than to blue ; and this redness increased on standing .
Caustic ammonia made it bluer than its carbonate ; but , on standing , the mixture became of the same vinous red .
The mulberry juice mixed with carbonate of lime became purple .
On filtering , a red liquor passed ; and the carbonate of lime left on the filter was blue .
An addition of whitening to the red filtered liquor did not alter its colour ; nor did this second portion of whitening become blue .
Heating did not affect the red colour of this liquor ; so that it was not owing to carbonic acid , disengaged from the carbonate of lime .
Caustic potash instantly made this red liquor a fine green , and gradually yellow .
114 Sulphurei acid rendered all the above mixtures florid red .
It is remarkable that the mixtures with ammonia , and carbonate of ammonia , which were become quite vinous red by standing , were made a perfect blue by the sulphuric acid before they were reddened by it .
It would hence seem that the red colour , caused by these alkalis , was owing to an excess of them ; and that in a less quantity they would have produced a blue .
The filter , into which the mixture of mulberry juice and chalk had been thrown , was become tinged blue .
Water did not remove this colour .
Sulphuric acid made this paper florid red .
Caustic potash did not alter its blue colour ; but put on the places ihade red by sulphuric acid , it restored the blue colour , but did not produce green .
Future experiments must decide whether this blue matter is the same as that of turnsol ; or as the blue matter which the expiriments above have indicated in sugar-loaf paper .
The juices of many other fruits , as black cherries , red currants , the skin of the berries of the buckthorn , elder berries , privet berries &amp;c. , seem to be made only blue by mild fixed alkalis , but green by caustic .
Puzzling anomalies , however , occasionally present themselves , which seem to show a near relation between the several blue colouring matters of vegetables , and their easy transition into no another .
The corn poppy .
The petals of the common red poppy of the fields rubbed on paper stain it of a reddish purple colour .
Solution of carbonate of soda put to this stain occasioned but little change in it .
I '15 Caustic potash made it green .
Caustic ammonia seemed not to have more effect on it tlian carbonate of soda .
Some poppy petals being bruised in a mixture of water and marine acid , formed a florid red solution : a superabundance of chalk added to this red liquor , did not make it blue ; but turned it to a dark red colour exactly like port wine .
Some poppy petals bruised in a weak solution of carbonate of soda , and the mixture filtered , the liquor which came through was not at all blue , but of a dark red colour like port wine .
Caustic potash made this red liquor green , which finally became yellow .
Some dried poppy petals of the shops , gave a strong obscure vinous tincture to cold water .
This red tincture heated with whitening , did not alter to blue , but preserved its red colour .
These very imperfect experiments may perhaps suggest the idea , that the colouring matter of this flower is the same as the red colouring matter of the mulberry .
Of sap green .
The inspissated juice of the ripe , or semi-ripe , berries of the buckthorn , constitute the pigment called sap green ; by the French , vert de vessie .
This species of green matter is entirely different from the common green matter of vegetables .
It is soluble in water .
Carbonate of soda and caustic potash changed the solution of sap green to yellow .
Paper tinged by sap green is a sensible test of alkalis .
Sulphuric , nitric , and marine acid , made it red .
Carbonate of lime added to a reddened solution , restored the green colour , which therefore appears to be the proper colour of the substance .
The green colour , which the last infusions of galls present , appears to be different , both from the usual green of vegetables , and from sap green .
Some animal greens .
A green puceron , or aphis , being crushed on white paper , emitted a green juice , which was immediately made yellow by carbonate of potash ( wrongly called sub-carbonate .
) There are small gnats of a green colour : crushed on paper , they make a green stain , which is permanent .
Neither muriatic acid nor carbonate of soda altered this green colour .
It is consequently of a different ' nature from the foregoing .
117

