140 Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , I wish to thank Mr. G. Winfield for the trouble he has taken in making himself familiar with the use of my spectroscopes .
I am also most grateful to Prof. Gotch for the kind suggestions he made to me early in the present research as to the best line of attack ; these have been of the greatest assistance .
The Phenomenon of " Narcosis Progression " in By T. Graham Brown ( Carnegie Fellow ) .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received November 12,1912 , \#151 ; Read January 23 , 1913 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of Liverpool .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE I. Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
140 II .
Methods Employed ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 142 III .
Narcosis Progression in Guinea-pigs ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
142 IY .
Narcosis Progression in Cats : Intact Hind Limbs , Bilateral Progression ... 143 V. Narcosis Progression in Cats : Intact Hind Limbs , Unilateral Progression ... 146 VI .
Narcosis Progression in Cats : The Effect of some Lesions of the Nervous System ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
148 VII .
Narcosis Progression in Cats : In Individual Muscles ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
150 VIII .
Narcosis Progression in Cats : The Effect of Asphyxia ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
151 IX .
Conclusions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 158 X. Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
162 I. Introdvxti .
At present the subject of " reflex walking " is one almost entirely neglected by physiologists , yet it is of fundamental importance in the physiology of the nervous system .
For this reason it is desired to lay stress upon it by means of the present paper , which is to be regarded as a preliminary account of a phenomenon which will later be described in greater detail .
The present author has already described certain movements of progression * * The expenses of this research have been defrayed by a grant from the Carnegie Trust .
The results here described were embodied in a thesis presented to the University of Edinburgh on March 31 , 1912 .
" Narcosis Progression " Mammals .
1912 .
] which occur in rabbits while subjected to the state of ether or chloroform narcosis.* These movements are of interest in that they exactly resemble the peculiar form of locomotion in that animal\#151 ; simultaneous movements of the hind limbs ( " hopping " ) and alternate movements of the fore limbs .
An additional point of interest is that scratching movements may occur also in narcosis , and the phenomena of narcosis movements may slide , as it were , from the one type into the other .
In previous papers read before the Society , mention has been made of the fact that similar movements ( that is , of progression ) may be induced under narcosis in the guinea-pigf and in the cat + The movements in the guinea-pig are of interest because they do not occur under normal conditions of ether or chloroform narcosis\#151 ; at any rate , they have not been observed in a long series of experiments , although sometimes after an operation and when the animal is recovering from the narcotic it may make such movements .
Under normal conditions the movements which occur in the guinea-pig under narcosis are those of scratching\#151 ; the " narcosis scratch."^ In the cat scratching has not been seen by me to occur in narcosis amongst about 200-300 individuals which I have observed in this state .
On the other hand , movements of progression occur with great frequence , probably in about 50-75 per cent , of cats subjected to general chemical narcosis induced by ether or chloroform or by a mixture of the two .
In the cat the progression movements are best seen in the hind limbs , where they may appear when the fore limbs exhibit no movement .
They exactly resemble the movements of progression in the normal animal .
Sometimes the two hind limbs move simultaneously ( or nearly simultaneously ) in the same direction , but more usually the narcosis progression is alternate .
It may rarely be confined to one of the hind limbs .
The rhythmic phenomenon may be transient , when it appears then lasting but a few seconds .
In other cases it may last for long periods of time .
Records in which the movements have continued unchanged for several minutes have been obtained .
In such cases the narcosis must be kept at a constant level .
If the depth be increased the movements decline in extent and finally die out .
If the depth of narcosis be decreased the movements cease somewhat suddenly when in full strength .
* 'Quart .
Journ. Exper .
Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 151 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , B , vol. 84 , p. 555 .
X ibid. , 1912 , B , vol. 85 , p. 278 .
S 'Journ .
Physiol. ' ( 'Proc .
Phys. Soc. ' ) , 1909 , vol. 38 , p. 86 ; 'Quart .
Journ. Expor .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 21 ; ibid. , 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 19 ; ibid. , 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 151 .
M 2 Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , Of the three chief joints of the hind limbs the ankle joint is that at which the movements of narcosis progression in the cat are best seen .
Where the phenomenon is well marked it may appear at all three joints ; intermediate grades may be characterised by movement at knee and ankle ; where slight , movement only at the ankle may be observed .
Even where there is no obvious movement there it is sometimes possible to feel rhythmic " beats " of tibialis anticus by palpation of its tendon of insertion in front of the ankle .
Although these movements of narcosis progression must have been observed in the cat by many previous investigators , to the best of my knowledge they have not before been minutely examined and described .
They are of interest on account of the light which they throw upon the phenomenon of progression in comparison with the various other rhythmic phenomena which may be observed .
Such rhythmic phenomena may be seen*in the scratch reflex , in simple reflexes , in compounded reflexes , as reflex rebound , in response to central stimulation of the cut surface of the spinal cord , in the progression phenomenon which may follow a rapid division of the spinal cord , and in the narcosis movements here described .
In some experiments several of these forms of rhythmic phenomena have been 'obtained .
II .
Methods Employed .
In the guinea-pig the movements of the intact hind limbs have been registered upon the moving surface of the kymograph through the mediation of a pair of levers , which were connected to the hind limbs by means of threads .
During the taking of a record the animal was laid upon its back , being sustained with its long axis parallel to the table upon \gt ; which it rested .
When the movements of narcosis progression in the intact hind limbs of the cat were registered , the animal was placed prone upon the table .
A hot-water bottle was placed under the lower part of the abdomen and had the effect of raising the pelvis .
A steel bar ( parallel to the table at a distance of about 5 cm .
and at right angles to the threads connecting the toes to the recording levers ) was placed under the ankles .
The movements then Registered were almost only those at the two ankle joints .
The movements at the ankles have been observed after various operative procedures .
Thus they have been examined after decerebration of the animal by rapid division of the brain stem through the anterior colliculi ; after rapid division of the spinal cord in the region of the lower thoracic segments ; after de-afferentation of one hind limb by the division of the posterior spinal roots proper to it ; after motor paralysis of groups of muscles hi the two hind limbs ; and , finally , in two individual muscles { gastrocnemius and tibialis anticus\#151 ; antagonists at the ankle joint ) after motor paralysis of all the other muscles of both hind limbs .
III .
Narcosis Progression in Guinea-Pigs .
In the normal condition under narcosis the rhythmic movements which occur are those of the scratch .
On an attempt being made to induce these after local anaesthesia of the receptive skin fields for the scratch-reflex " Narcosis Progression " Mammals .
1912 .
] by means of the subcutaneous injection of " novocain " ( O'l-O^ grm. ) , it was found that movements of progression occurred , and that scratching could not be obtained .
This accidental discovery was confirmed in other cases , and it must appear that the application of this drug causes the narcosis movements of the guinea-pig to change from those of the scratch to those of progression .
This result is not conditioned by the site of the application of the drug , for it is obtained after intra-peritoneal injection .
In cats in which narcosis progression has not occurred , an injection of " novocain " may sometimes be followed by their appearance .
When these movements occur in the guinea-pig they are bilaterally alternate in the two hind limbs .
Their amplitude may be greatly increased during the application of a peripheral stimulus .
Such an augmentation , for instance , occurs if mechanical pressure be applied to the fold of skin which passes from the abdomen to the front of the thigh .
In this case , the amplitude of the " beats " is increased in the limb of the same side and diminished in that of the opposite side .
The usual rate of rhythm of the movements is about 2 0 beats .
per second in each hind limb ( two complete cycles of progression per second ) .
This has been remarkably regular .
In one and the same individual variations of rate of rhythm between the extremes of 1'75 and 3 0 beats per second have , however , been observed .
In this same individual the movements of the narcosis scratch were recorded on another occasion .
The rate of rhythm of the beats of the scratch varied between 7-0 and 8*0 beats per second .
This rate corresponds very closely with the average rate of 7*5 beats per second obtained from a large number of different individuals.* It seems to bear the simple relationship of 4 :1 to the rate of the movements of progression in the same individual .
If this is the case it is of interest that the relationship should be 2 :1 in the case of the rabbitf ( where the progression is that of hopping ) , and of 4 :1 in the guinea-pig ( where the progression is that of running ) .
IY .
Narcosis Progression in Cats : Intact Hind , Bilateral Progression .
The movements in the intact hind limbs , as studied at the ankle , are of flexion followed by extension\#151 ; rhythmically repeated .
Perhaps it would be more correct to say that the movements are of flexion followed by relaxation of flexion\#151 ; because palpation of the extensors usually fails to detect any movement .
There is probably a reciprocal relaxation during * 'Quart .
Journ. Exper .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 21 .
t Ibid. , 1911 , vol. 2 , p. 151 .
Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , the flexor contraction , and a restitution of maintained tonus during flexor relaxation , but there is no evident contraction in this phase .
The movements occur in the two limbs .
They are then related in such a manner that flexion at one ankle occurs during relaxation of flexion at the other ; and when the second limb exhibits flexion the first relaxes .
It happens ( although rarely ) that sometimes the movements in the two hind limbs are nearly synchronous , in the sense of being in the same direction at the same time .
Graphic records of the movements of the two ankles during this narcosis progression demonstrate the relations of the movements in the two hind limbs , and also the variations of their rates of rhythm .
In a typical instance the curve traced by each foot is rhythmically discontinuous ( fig. 1 ) .
Each remains for intervals parallel with the abscissa\#151 ; corresponding with a posture of extension .
Between these intervals each curve describes a sharp rise and fall ( -+- and \#151 ; flexion ) .
This movement may be termed a " beat " ; and there is usually no pause at the top of a beat .
The movement of relaxation of flexion ( or of extension ) immediately succeeds that of flexion contraction .
Occasionally there is a slight pause at the top , and the curve then remains parallel with the abscissa in a posture of maintained flexion .
The fall of a beat is usually a more rapid movement than the rise .
When the tracings of the two ankle movements are compared it is found that the beat of one falls within the pause of the other .
The exact relationship depends upon the rate of rhythm of the movements .
Where the movements are slow the intervals may be of greater duration than the beats .
In such a case the top of a beat in one foot corresponds in time to the mid-point of an interval in the other .
The end of an interval in one foot then overlaps the beginning of one in the other .
Immediately after each beat there is a short period during which both feet are in a state of maintained extension .
This is then terminated by the appearance of the following beat at the other ankle .
If the rate of rhythm is faster and the duration of the pauses exactly equal to the duration of the beats then the termination of a beat at one ankle is immediately followed by the commencement of a beat at the other ; the termination of that by the commencement of a beat at the first\#151 ; and so on .
With still faster rates the interval between beats at either ankle becomes shortened .
The apex of a beat at one ankle then falls mid-way in this pause , but the commencement of the beat occurs at a point during the relaxation phase of a beat at the other ankle .
The relaxation phase of the " Narcosis Progression " in Mammals .
1912 .
] first beat then synchronises at a certain point with the point of commencement of a beat at the second\#151 ; and so on .
Increase in the rate of rhythm is then accompanied by a disappearance of Fig. 1.\#151 ; Experiment C , XXXIV , record 60 ; 11.4.11.\#151 ; Normal cat , record of narcosis progression obtained by registration of the movements at the ankles of the intact hind limbs .
The movements are here slow .
It will be observed that there are distinct pauses in flexion relaxation between the beats , and that there are slight pauses at the top of the beats .
The pauses in relaxation are of greater duration than are the beats .
The beats are alternate in the two hind limbs .
The corresponding ordinates marked 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 demonstrate that the commencement of a beat at the left ankle occurs after the commencement of a pause between beats at the right , and that the termination of that beat occurs before the termination of the same pause .
Thus , for instance , immediately after ordinates 4 both limbs for a short time are in flexion relaxation .
In this and in all the other figures , except figs. 7 and 8 , the upper tracing is that obtained from the movements of the light foot and the lower that from the left .
The rise of the curve denotes flexion , and the fall extension at the ankle .
Corresponding ordinates on the two tracings ( usually numbered 1 , 2 , 3 , etc. ) demonstrate the time relations of different points .
A millimetre scale has been drawn before the record was varnished , and is thus reduced in proportion with the rest of the record .
The lowest line registers time in seconds .
the pause between the beats of either foot .
At each ankle the commencement of a beat follows immediately upon the termination of the preceding Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , beat .
The apex of a beat at one ankle is then found to correspond in time with the point of transition from beat to beat at the other .
Where the movements of narcosis progression are fast it may happen that they are no longer bilaterally alternate at the two ankles , but are more or less exactly synchronous .
The progression is then that of the gallop .
The rate of rhythm in different experiments has been found to vary between comparatively wide limits .
Thus a rate as slow as 0'6 cycle per second has been registered .
( A cycle may be measured by taking the average duration of time between successive apices of the beats at one ankle .
) Rates as fast as 2*5 cycles per second have been registered under normal conditions ; while under asphyxia in addition to the narcosis the rate has been found to rise as high as 3'3 beats per second\#151 ; or even higher .
Even in one and the same individual the rate may vary considerably .
Thus on two successive days in one individual rates of 06 and 2 cycles per second have been registered .
Nine days later the rhythm was 1 cycle per second .
The movements are not always regular .
Sometimes " grouping " may occur .
The beats may then occur in pairs with shorter pauses between the elements of a pair than between successive pairs .
Other variations may occur , and sometimes there may be a dropping out of the movements of a limb for short intervals of time during the registration of a long record .
V. Narcosis Progression in Cats : Intact Hind Limbs , Unilateral Progression .
Unilateral progression as regards the pair of hind ( or of fore ) limbs is of course a phenomenon often seen in the case of the mammal which uses quadrupedal progression .
Three-leg progression in the dog after injury to one limb is a common sight .
It occasionally happens that the phenomena of narcosis progression are entirely confined to one hind limb ; while it more often happens that for short periods of time a bilateral progression in the hind limbs becomes unilateral .
In the forms of unilateral progression in which the phenomenon is entirely confined to one of the pair of hind limbs there is little to describe .
The rate of the movements is almost always very fast , and corresponds to that which obtains in bilateral progression when the movements are synchronous in the two limbs ( galloping ) .
Temporary abolition of the movements of progression in one .limb of the pair may take place during long records of bilaterally alternate movements ( fig- 2 ) .
This abolition occurs suddenly .
The beats in one limb fail , and there ensues a shorter or a longer pause during which the beats occur alone in the Fig. 2.\#151 ; Experiment C , XXXIV , record 69 ; 21.4.11.\#151 ; Normal cat ( the same one from which tig .
1 was obtained 10 days before ) , record of narcosis progression .
This figure gives the last part of a tracing in which the movements were recorded for a period of 100 seconds .
The movements were at the commencement of 0-5 of the extent of the last ones here reproduced .
As the depth of narcosis was decreased they gradually became larger until they suddenly stopped .
This tracing is typical of the sudden cessation of the phenomenon under these circumstances .
It will also be observed that towards the end of * the tracing the beats tend for short intervals to become unilateral .
When this occurs here , the beats in the limb which continues to move are quicker than before .
This may be seen in the case of the right limb at ordinates 39 , 40 , 41 ; the distance between ordinates 39 and 41 ( = 2 cycles ) is shorter than that between ordinates 35 , 37 ( where both hind limbs are moving ) .
The same phenomenon is more marked in the left hind limb at ordinates D , E , F ( unilateral , = 2 cycles ) as compared with ordinates B , C , D ( bilateral , the two cycles immediately preceding the unilateral phenomenon ) .
h-1 to vrcosis Progression " in Mammals .
147 Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , other limb .
Beappearance of the beats in the first limb then terminates this pause ; but these beats are at first smaller than usual .
The common extent of the beats is soon attained .
The duration of the long pause is approximately equivalent to that of so many cycles .
That is , it is approximately equal in duration to a simple multiple of the duration of a single cycle when the two limbs are acting together alternately .
This correspondence is , however , only approximate ; for minuter examination of the records reveals the fact that the pause is in duration smaller than would be this simple multiple .
The beats which continue in being in the other limb become more rapid in rate of rhythm than before .
The change of rate of rhythm in such temporary unilateral progression may be slight .
It may change from 075 to 09 cycle per second only .
In other cases it may change from 1*5 to 2-5 cycles per second .
The beats of a limb in which the movements occur during the temporary abolition of the beats in the other are often increased in extent as well as in rate of rhythm .
This increased extent may persist for a short time after the resumption of movement by the other limb .
It then gradually disappears synchronously with the attainment by these beats of their normal extent .
VI .
Narcosis Progression in Cats : the Effect of some Lesions of the Nervous System , The movements of progression in the intact hind limbs may be recorded \#151 ; as they occur at the ankles\#151 ; after certain lesions of the central and peripheral nervous systems .
Of these , the first which we may mention is that of decerebration by rapid division of the brain stem through the anterior colliculi .
In one experiment the movements of narcosis progression were recorded before decerebration , and also 15 seconds after the infliction of the lesion .
Before decerebration the movements were very well marked , and were alternate in the two hind limbs .
After decerebration they were very much reduced in extent , the reduction being greater in one limb than in the other .
The movements were synchronous in the two limbs at the beginning of the record , but later they became alternate .
The rate of rhythm also changed after decerebration .
Before it had been about 1*2 cycles per second .
Afterwards it became about 2"6 cycles per second .
The movements entirely disappeared 40 seconds after decerebration .
The movements of narcosis progression in the hind limbs may persist after local injury to the lumbar region of the spinal cord .
Thus , after the movements of normal narcosis progression have been recorded , the lumbar spinal cord may be transected at the level of the entry " Narcosis Progression " in Mammals .
1912 .
] of the most caudal fibres of the Vlth post-thoracic posterior spinal root without abolishing the narcosis progression .
This lesion , if accompanied by the destruction of the lower part of the cut cord , removes from the body the centres for the extensors of the ankle joint , and leaves that for the flexors ( or part of it ) .
Yet the movements at the two ankles may still persist .
Again , in the same experiment , the remaining portion of the lumbar spinal cord has been split in the middle line of the body in the YIth , Yth , and lower part of the I Yth post-thoracic segments , and the left part of the cord in these segments has been removed .
Movements of narcosis progression persisted in the right hind limb at the right ankle .
They were very slight , and it was almost impossible to register them , but palpation of the tendon of tibialis anticus revealed the fact that that muscle continued rhythmically to contract , and it appeared that the rate of the movements was about twice as fast as before .
The movements of progression in this experiment before the first lesion ( in the normal condition ) had been of good extent and of a rate of about 095 cycle per second .
After the first lesion the extent of the beats was reduced , but their rate remained at about 1 cycle per second .
After the second lesion the extent of the beats was very markedly reduced , and the rate of rhythm appeared to be about 2 cycles per second .
At the time of registration the beats appeared to be of a rate of about 1 cycle per second\#151 ; but possibly of about 1*3 cycles per second .
Division of the posterior spinal roots of one of the two limbs in another experiment was followed by abolition of the narcosis movements as they occurred in that hind limb .
The movements in the other limb continued , but were slower than before .
Only one experiment of this sort has been successful .
It is not usual for the movements of narcosis progression to last as long after the commencement of narcosis as is necessary for the preparation of the spinal cord and roots before they are cut .
It is , perhaps , remarkable that the movements should survive the procedure in any case .
It is but fair to add that in this successful experiment the narcosis progression had at the commencement of narcosis showed a marked tendency to be unilateral in either hind limb , and especially in that the posterior roots of which were not cut .
In another case motor paralysis of one hind limb was produced by division of all its spinal roots\#151 ; both motor and afferent .
In this instance the movements of narcosis progression persisted in the other hind limb , but were then more slow than before .
In yet another experiment the movements of narcosis progression at one ankle survived not only the motor paralysis of all the muscles save the knee Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , extensors of the other hind limb , but also the motor paralysis of all the muscles ( save the knee extensors ) acting upon its own hip and knee joints .
The movements at this ankle still survived after transection of the lumbar spinal cord at the level of the lower border of the Yllth post-thoracic segment , and also after division at the lower border of the Vltli segment .
Finally , I have lately divided the spinal cord in the lower thoracic region very rapidly while the narcosis progression ( in deep anaesthesia ) was in being .
In this instance the movements were not recorded , but there appeared to be little change in them .
They ceased about seconds after the lesion.* VII .
Narcosis Progression in in Individual Muscles .
When the individual antagonists at the ankle ( tibialis anticus and gastrocnemius ) are prepared for the registration of their movements all the muscles of the other hind limb are put out of action by motor paralysis , while all the other muscles of the same hind limb are similarly paralysed .
After this drastic procedure it is not strange that the movements of progression narcosis are difficult to obtain\#151 ; especially as they soon tend to disappear in the normal cat as the narcosis is continued for any great length of time .
The movements of progression narcosis have , however , been recorded in the individual muscles , and in an experiment in which they were also recorded in the intact hind limbs .
In the intact hind limbs the movements were of good extent , regular , and of a rate of about 1*6 cycles per second .
They were recorded for a period of about 90 seconds .
After preparation of the individual muscles at the ankle the movements persisted and were very well marked .
The extensor\#151 ; gastrocnemius\#151 ; throughout exhibited no trace of movement ; but the flexor\#151 ; tibialis anticus\#151 ; presented a record composed of well marked beats , regular in extent and rate of rhythm .
These were composed of contraction phases immediately succeeded at the summit of contraction by relaxation .
The termination of the phase of relaxation was succeeded by a pause in which the muscle remained in relaxation , and then contraction again appeared ( fig. 7 ) .
The rate of rhythm of these beats was about 1*5 cycles per second , so that here the motor paralysis of one hind limb and the motor paralysis of all the * Note ( added January 23 , 1913).\#151 ; I have lately repeated this result , with graphic registration .
The narcosis progression was occurring at a depth of anaesthesia so great that rapid division of the lower thoracic spinal cord evoked scarce a movement .
Again , I have found narcosis progression to occur at a depth of anaesthesia at which reflex movement at the ankle could hardly be elicited .
To these recent observations I would like to add a third : narcosis progression may persist through the procedure of decapitation , and thereafter may suddenly merge , in one hind limb , into the scratch-reflex .
" Narcosis Progression Mammals .
1912 .
] muscles of the other save only the two retained had no apparent effect upon the rate of rhythm of the movements .
The general appearance of this tracing was such that to inspection it might easily be mistaken for one in which the movements of the intact hind limb were recorded .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Experiment C , LXII , record 110 ; 19.7.11.\#151 ; Normal cat , narcosis progression under the influence of chloroform-ether narcosis reinforced by the application of 0'2 grm. " novocain .
" Effect of asphyxia\#151 ; trachea closed 1-2 seconds before ordinates 1 .
In the left limb the beats are seen for a time to continue to relax to the same level , but to become of increased extent and rate of rhythm .
Then the relaxation becomes less complete , and as this becomes still less the beats decrease in extent , although their height does not fall .
In the left limb the beats do not disappear , but in the right they disappear and a state of maintained flexion is left .
In the left limb the pauses between the beats are seen to disappear .
The beats in the two limbs are at first alternate ( as at ordinates 1 , 2 , 3 ) , but when they are of maximum extent in the left limb they are very nearly synchronous .
Later they are again alternate .
VIII .
Narcosis Progression in Cats : the Effect of Asphyxia .
In the cat under narcosis the effect of asphyxia may easily be studied by completely closing the elastic trachea ( or by closing a tracheal cannula when that has been inserted ) .
In these experiments this complete closure was applied for short periods\#151 ; about 15 seconds to about 50 seconds ( maximum ) .
An asphyxia of about 30 seconds is sufficient to give the effects to be described .
These have been examined both in the intact hind limbs and in the individual antagonists at the ankle .
The records demonstrate many minor variations in the phenomenon .
The description here is that of the typical effect .
Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , A short period of complete asphyxia produces three kinds of effect upon movements of narcosis progression then in being .
These are : Change in the rate of rhythm of the beats ; change in the extent of the beats ; and change in the mutual relations of the beats in the two limbs .
Change in Rate of Rhythm.\#151 ; Two main phases occur between the commencement of asphyxia and the attainment of its complete effect .
The first of these is a slowing of the rate of rhythm .
This may be absent , or it may be so great as to cause complete cessation of the beats .
It seems to be conditioned by an increase in the pauses between the beats .
In extent of duration it is usually slight ; a rate of rhythm before closure of the trachea of about 13 cycles per second may become one of about 1 cycle .
This phase lasts for about 9-12 seconds , at the end of which time the rate of rhythm again increases ( or the beats reappear if they have been suppressed ) .
The phase of the increase of rate of rhythm is the second .
It is never absent unless the beats at the commencement of asphyxia are already very fast .
The rate of rhythm becomes progressively more fast , at first by a reduction of the pauses between beats , but later ( when the pauses have disappeared ) by a reduction of the duration of the beats .
This phase may last for as long as 20 seconds , and the rate of rhythm may become thrice that which obtained before the application of asphyxia .
Thus a rate before asphyxia of 1*3 cycles per second has been observed to change to one of 3 cycles per second 25 seconds after closure of the trachea ; and one of 1 cycle has changed to 2*75 .
The beats themselves may shrink in duration to 075 of the duration before asphyxia .
Change in Extent.\#151 ; Synchronously with these changes in rate of rhythm , changes in the extent of the beats may appear .
This change may be measured either by the examination of the heights of the beats ( that is , of the heights of the apices of maximum flexion ) ; or by an examination of their lengths ( that is , of the distances between the apices and the lowest points in the beats ) .
If the apices of the beats in an asphyxia record be joined by an imaginary line , and if the lowest points be joined all together by another , the beats will appear as conditioned in height at any one point by the distance between the two curves there .
The first curve\#151 ; which is that of maximum flexion\#151 ; is parallel with the abscissa at the time of the application of the asphyxia .
It then sometimes slightly falls ( the fall may , of course , be great\#151 ; as when the beats disappear in the first phase ) .
This fall is soon succeeded by a gradual rise of the curve , and it is most common for this gradual rise to commence at once and without preceding fall .
Throughout the phase in which the rhythm slows the curve of maximum flexion gradually rises , and it continues to rise throughout the whole phenomenon until the complete Fig. 4.\#151 ; Experiment C , LXXVIII , record 133 ; 4.11.11.\#151 ; Normal cat , narcosis progression under chloroform-ether anaesthesia .
Asphyxia ( by complete closure of the trachea ) was commenced at x of the signal line ( ordinates x ' ) and stopped at ) .
^ ' !
ie other ordinates , numbered 1-42 , mark on both tracings the point of commencement of the right beats .
It will be noticed that here the latency of the asphyxia effect is comparatively long ; the beats markedly increase in extent and rate ; but the pauses do not disappear , the beats do not become bilaterally synchronous , the state of maintained flexion is badly marked , and the beats do not disappear entirely in the right hind limb .
Here the time marker failed : 1 second = 6 mm. ( reduced scale ) in length along the abscissa .
" Narcosis Progression " in Mammals .
153 Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , asphyxia effect is obtained .
Towards the end of the second phase the rise becomes much less rapid than at its commencement , and the curve finally becomes again parallel to the abscissa as the maximum effect is reached .
The curve of minimum flexion\#151 ; that joining the lowest points in the beats\#151 ; may also fall in the first phase .
If it does so its fall is less than that of the curve of maximum flexion , and more usually it remains parallel with the abscissa throughout the first phase .
At the end of that phase , and when the beats are again increasing in rate of rhythm , this curve commences to rise more rapidly than that of maximum flexion .
This rise continues to be more rapid until the maximum asphyxia effect is attained .
In fact , both curves continue to rise throughout the phenomenon .
That of maximum flexion has a shorter latency and a more gradual rise than the curve of minimum flexion , which has a longer latency and a more rapid rise .
In consequence of this the beats are of greatest relative extent ( that is , from apex to their lowest point ) at the end of the first phase when the curve of minimum flexion is just about to rise , and thenceforward they progressively diminish in extent\#151 ; at the same time becoming increasingly more rapid .
The maximum effect is attained when the curve of minimum flexion coincides with that of maximum flexion .
Just before this is attained the beats are very small in extent and very fast .
When it is attained they disappear and there is left in their place a state of maintained flexion .
This maintained flexion may continue to increase for a short time after this .
Change in Bilateral Relations.\#151 ; The temporal relations of the movements in the two hind limbs are of interest during this phenomenon of asphyxia .
At the commencement of the condition it may be supposed that the beats in the two hind limbs are accurately alternate .
In the first phase of the asphyxia phenomenon , when the beats slow in rate and increase in extent , this relationship persists .
Thereafter a change makes its appearance in the relationship of the beats on the two sides of the body .
The apex of the beat on one side at this point fells midway between the apices of two beats on the other .
In successive beats the apex then leaves the mid-point and either advances or retires towards the first of the two apices of the other limb between which it falls ( fig. 5 ) .
This process is continued until the apex of a beat of one limb actually coincides with that of a beat in the other .
The movement is then that of the gallop\#151 ; synchronous beats in the two hind limbs .
This state often persists for the remainder of the period of asphyxia , but sometimes the beats become again less completely synchronous .
This phenomenon of progression in asphyxia , if it is induced in one of the rare cases in which the progression is already synchronous , may not interfere with that synchronism .
The beats may become slightly more fast .
VOL. LXXXV T W Fig. 5 .
Experiment C , LXXXIV , record !
140 ; 16.11.11.\#151 ; Normal cat .
narcosis progression .
[ The paper was torn in varnishing in a diagonal line between ordinates 6-7 below and 8-9 above : it has been carefully fitted together .
] Asphyxia was applied between X-Y .
A curious reduplication of the beats in the left hind limb is seen before the commencement of the asphyxia .
This record demonstrates ( 1 ) the increase in the extent of the beats in both limbs ; ( 2 ) increase in their rate of rhythm ; ( 3 ) disappearance of the pauses between beats ; ( 4 ) late decrease in the extent of the beats , merging in ( 5 ) a state of maintained flexion ( not so great or so well marked as in some cases ) ; and ( 6 ) change from bilateral alternation of the beats in the two limbs to bilateral synchronism .
The last phenomenon is most clearly marked , and is demonstrated by the relations of the numbered ordinates , which all correspond with t e commencement of beats in the right limb .
At the time of the disappearance of pauses from between the beats of the right limb { cir .
ordinates 19 ) the beats are alternate .
Thereafter the relationship gradually changes until at about ordinates 33 the beats are synchronous in the two hind limbs , as is shown by their synchronous commencement and termination .
1912 .
] " Narcosis Progression " Mammals .
155 Fig. 6.\#151 ; Experiment C , XCVII , record 158 ; 15.12.11.\#151 ; Normal cat , narcosis progression .
Here the movements are decreasing in extent when asphyxia is induced .
The beats are rapid in rate of rhythm and nearly synchronous even before the application of the asphyxia .
The state of maintained flexion is marked in both muscles , and just before the full effect is attained the beats are small and rapid .
This tracing demonstrates the recovery from asphyxia .
There are first short series of small and fast abortive beats .
Then real recovery commences and the beats become larger and slower as the process continues .
At the end of the record the beats are much slower and larger than at the beginning before asphyxia .
This in part may be due to a lessening of the depth of narcosis .
156 Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , " Narcosis Progression " in Mammals .
1912 .
] It sometimes occurs that , if the movements of narcosis progression have occurred in a cat but have then ceased , the production of a state of asphyxia may induce them again .
They then appear some time after the commencement of asphyxia at that point at which it might be expected that the beats-would be reaching their maximum extent .
Recovery.\#151 ; The asphyxia effect ends in the production of a state of maintained flexion .
If the asphyxia be continued there may then be no recovery of the movements of progression .
But if the asphyxia be terminated whenever the complete effect is attained\#151 ; or , better still , a few seconds before it is attained\#151 ; the movements of progression again make their appearance ( fig. 6 ) .
Even when the asphyxia is stopped before the attainment of the complete effect ( that is , when the beats are still present ) the full effect is attained .
The state of maintained flexion then persists for a few seconds ; the beats reappear\#151 ; being then of small extent and rapid rate of rhythm ; become of greater extent and of slower rate ; and finally again attain their normal appearance .
The maintained flexion Fig. 7.\#151 ; Experiment C , LX , record 107 ; 14.7.11.\#151 ; Normal cat , narcosis progression registered in the isolated tibialis anticus and gastrocnemius muscles after motor paralysis of all the other muscles of both hind limbs .
The upper tracing is that of the flexor ( tibialis anticus ) , while the lower is that of the extensor ( gastrocnemius ) .
Rise of the curve denotes contraction and fall denotes relaxation of a muscle .
It will be observed that here the flexor beats are very well marked , but at this period of the experiment are somewhat irregular in extent and in rate of rhythm .
No movement of gastrocnemius is registered .
N 2 Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , may , however , persist for long periods , as long as 20 seconds .
The beats may then reappear and again become suppressed , again to appear and persist .
The beats at first may be more rapid than before the attainment of maintained flexion .
At first they are synchronous in the two hind limbs , but as they slow in rate of rhythm they again become alternate .
In records obtained from the individual muscles at the ankle the effects of asphyxia have also been studied ( fig. 8 ) .
Here the synchronism between the two hind limbs was not investigated , but with this exception the flexor showed the phenomena of asphyxia seen in the case of the intact hind limb .
After the commencement of asphyxia there was little or no slowing of the rate of rhythm .
The beats at once commenced to increase in height .
The maximum was attained just before they began to increase in rate of rhythm .
Thereafter the curve of minimum contraction of the flexor muscle began to rise ( that is , the point of minimum contraction occurred at an ever greater level of maintained contraction ) .
At the same time pauses disappeared from between the beats , their rate of rhythm progressively increased , and their extent progressively diminished .
Their rate increased from about 1 cycle per second just before asphyxia , to about 34 cycles per second just before the complete effect appeared .
The beats absolutely disappeared and left behind a state of maintained contraction of the flexor , which gradually increased .
Recovery from the effects of asphyxia has also been observed in the individual flexor muscle ( fig. 8 ) .
The state of maintained contraction was then broken by groups of abortive beats which were of very small extent .
Soon undoubted beats appeared .
These were irregular , of slower rate than before , and of smaller extent .
The extensor played no part in the phenomena of asphyxia , or of recovery therefrom .
Throughout it remained inactive .
IX .
Conclusions .
That these movements of narcosis progression are strictly equivalent to the normal act of progression there can be no doubt .
In the rabbit the progression is almost invariably that of hopping\#151 ; where the two hind limbs move synchronously in the same directions .
In the phenomenon of narcosis progression of the rabbit the movements of the two hind limbs are also synchronous .
In the guinea-pig the progression is almost invariably that of bilateral alternation of movement in the two hind limbs .
In the narcosis progression of that animal the movements of the two hind limbs have always been alternate .
In the cat the movement may either be that of bilateral alternation\#151 ; as Fig. 8\#151 ; Experiment C , LX , record 107 ; 14.7.11.\#151 ; Normal cat , from the same experiment as fig. 7\#151 ; record of narcosis progression in the individual antagonists at the ankle .
The effect of asphyxia ( " X X " approximate ) .
At the time of the commencement of asphyxia the flexor beats were very irregular .
They then became more r egular and very much more rapid .
The pauses in flexor relaxation between the beats disappeared , the level of relaxation rose , and the complete effect was obtained when the beats disappeared and there ensued a state of maintained flexor contraction .
This persisted and recovery gradually appeared .
There were first some abortive beats , but when the beats really reappeared they were of extreme irregularity of extent .
" Narcosis Progression " in Mammals .
159 Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , in walking ; or of very nearly perfect bilateral synchronism\#151 ; as in the gallop .
Its narcosis progression may take either form .
The great part played by the flexor muscle is a point of interest .
It must be remembered that the movements of extension are much more affected by chemical narcosis than are those of flexion .
It is perhaps because of this that when the individual muscles are examined the flexor alone appears to take part in the movements .
It is probable that the extensor does take part in the better marked types of narcosis progression , although it is difficult to show that it does .
That muscle certainly takes part in the phenomena of progression which follow mechanical stimulation of the spinal cord and are extremely like the movements of narcosis progression .
It also takes part in many instances of the rhythmic rebound phenomenon , which again is very similar to these two types of movement .
But it is equally clear that the phenomenon of narcosis progression may appear when there is no evident contraction of the extensor at the ankle .
Again , the independence of the flexor centre is a point of great interest .
The movements of narcosis progression may be present after decerebration .
They may persist even after the isolation of the aboral part of the spinal cord by division in the lower thoracic region .
The phenomenon of narcosis progression may therefore be conditioned by the lumbar centres alone , although it is probable that the higher centres in the cord and upper parts of the cerebro-spinal axis play an important secondary part in its conditioning .
The movements may also occur after the destruction of the lower part of the spinal cord which contains the centres for the extensors of the ankle .
But this does not necessarily mean that they would continue if all the extensor centres could be removed from the lumbar spinal cord .
In this experiment there yet remained the extensor centres for the thigh .
The movements- may finally occur after the removal of a great part of one lateral half of the lumbar spinal cord .
This all speaks for the independence of the lumbar centres .
It is true that in these experiments the movements were not observed after the de-afferentation of a hind limb in that limb .
It must , however , be remembered that the movements of progression after division of the spinal cord have appeared in these circumstances , and so have the similar movements of rhythmic rebound .
Perhaps the afferent proprioceptive impulses , which are almost certainly reinforcing impulses and not essential to the act in the phenomenon of narcosis progression , play a greater part in the depressed state of the lumbar centres which is conditioned by the chemical narcotic .
If so , it is of interest that the motor paralysis of a limb ( accompanied by its de-afferentation , either actual or virtual ) has little effect upon the movements of progression narcosis which occur in the other .
" Narcosis Progression " 1912 .
] There is no space here to discuss all the points of interest raised by these phenomena , but I should like to mention one .
The rhythmic act of progression resembles that of respiration in so complete a degree that it is difficult , if not impossible , to resist the idea that in all essentials they are the same , and conditioned in similar manners by similar mechanisms and by stimuli of similar sources .
There is a phenomenon of " voluntary breathing " just as there is one of " voluntary progression .
" But the former act * tends soon to become involuntary ; and although progression seems to be more under the influence of the higher centres , yet it , too , tends to become an involuntary act once started .
The rhythmic movements of respiration seem essentially to be central ; they appear to continue after the abolition of self-engendered impulses .
In a similar manner it appears that the movements of progression in the lumbar centres may appear when self-generated proprioceptive impulses are excluded .
Yet both respiration and progression are reinforced by a peripheral self-regulative mechanism .
The effects of asphyxia upon the two centres are again very similar ; for in its effects upon the respiratory centre it first produces an increase in the amplitude of the respiratory movements .
A state of maintained inspiration underlies this , the diaphragm may continue contracted to a certain extent even at the end of expiration .
With an increase of the expiratory movements the inspiratory movements become small .
It looks as if there were here , and up to this stage in the asphyxia phenomena of respiration , a resemblance between the behaviour of the inspiratory centre and the flexor centre in progression .
Is it possible that the flexor centre is strictly comparable to the inspiratory centre ?
That flexion = inspiration , and extension = expiration ?
In the case of progression it is again of interest that asphyxia should produce an increase in extent and rate of rhythm of the movements .
The act of progression if of sufficient speed itself may cause a certain degree of asphyxia .
If this be not too great it will assist rapid movement through the environment .
When carried to too great an extent the movements will be retarded , and the state of asphyxia will therefore be lessened .
There is thus here possible a nice internal regulation of the speed of progression , and an optimum speed may be set for each resultant of the balance between the local peripheral and central factors , and the higher central and peripheral factors , which all influence the final centres which condition the act .
Mr. Graham Brown .
[ Nov. 12 , X. Summary .
1 .
Movements which seem exactly to resemble those of progression occur in some animals when subjected to general chemical narcosis .
2 .
In the rabbit these movements are synchronous in sense of direction in the two hind limbs .
This corresponds with the normal hopping type of progression in these animals .
3 .
In the guinea-pig the movements which normally occur in narcosis are those of the scratch .
If , however , the chemical narcosis be combined with novocain the resultant movements are those of progression .
They are alternate in the two hind limbs , and thus resemble the movements of ordinary progression in the guinea-pig .
4 .
In the cat the movements which occur in narcosis are those of progression .
5 .
If the movements be examined in the two hind limbs they are found usually to be alternate .
Rarely they are synchronous under normal circumstances\#151 ; narcosis gallop .
6 .
If the depth of narcosis be gradually increased the movements of narcosis progression gradually fade out .
If the depth of narcosis be decreased the movements progressively increase and then suddenly cease .
7 .
In either hind limb the movements\#151 ; as examined at the ankle joint\#151 ; consist of flexion succeeded by relaxation of flexion ( extension ) , and with a pause in the posture of minimum flexion .
Palpation of the tendons at the ankle shows that the flexors are active in this movement .
It fails to demonstrate any extensor movement in the intervals of flexor contraction .
This may , however , perhaps be present in the phenomenon .
8 .
The pauses may be long\#151 ; of greater duration than the flexor beats\#151 ; or they may be absent .
In the latter case beat succeeds beat without intermission .
9 .
Occasionally in a record the movements may fail in one hind limb .
It is then found that there is usually an exaggeration of the movements in the other .
The beats become of greater extent and quicker than before .
This augmentation gradually disappears if the beats in the other hind limb reappear .
These , then , are at first smaller than usual , but soon attain their normal extent .
10 .
The phenomenon when present has been observed to continue after decerebration .
In the lumbar centres it may also outlast rapid division of the spinal cord in the lower thoracic region .
In the lumbar flexor centres it may also outlast a removal of the spinal cord aboral from them\#151 ; in which the ankle extensor centres are cut off .
The progression at one ankle may " Narcosis Progression in Mammals .
1912 .
] also outlast removal of the lumbar cord of the opposite side of the body .
The movements of narcosis progression have also been observed in a pair of antagonistic muscles at the ankle-joint after the motor paralysis of all the other muscles of both hind limbs .
Immediately after the de-afferentation of one hind limb ( by rapid division of the posterior spinal roots ) the movements of narcosis progression have been found to be present in the normal hind limb , but have not then been present in the de-afferented limb .
11 .
When examined in a pair of individual antagonists at the ankle joint the movements of narcosis progression are found to be confined to the flexor , and then exactly to resemble the movements at the ankle examined in the intact limb .
12 .
Asphyxia produced by the complete closure of the trachea for a short period of time ( 15-40 seconds ) produces a change in the movements .
This is the same when examined either in the intact hind limb or in the individual flexor at the ankle .
The flexor beats at first increase in extent and at the same time slow in rate of rhythm .
They may sometimes be decreased in extent for a short time , and may even completely disappear .
This phenomenon forms the first phase .
When the beats have attained a maximum ( after reappearance if they have previously disappeared ) they commence to become quicker , and although they still continue to increase in height their relaxation is less complete than before , and their extent decreases .
In this second phase of the asphyxia phenomenon there appears to be an increasing factor of maintained flexion .
The beats become still more rapid and still smaller until they finally disappear .
There is then left a state of marked maintained flexion ( flexor contraction as seen in the flexor muscle ) .
13 .
If the movement in the two hind limbs is alternate at the point of commencement of asphyxia this alternation may change to synchronism as the beats become more rapid .
This change is a gradual one .
The apices of the beats in one hind limb gradually advance in temporal relationship to the apices of the beats in the other from the mid-point between these apices .
This advance proceeds gradually until the apex of a beat in one limb synchronises with that of a beat in the other .
14 .
If the asphyxia be terminated at the point at which the beats disappear and a state of maintained flexion is left that state of maintained flexion may persist for a few or for many seconds , and may then be broken by the reappearance of beats .
These then are fast and small , but become slower and larger in the reverse order to that which obtained during thS establishment of the full asphyxia effect .
15 .
In narcosis progression the rate of rhythm is usually one of between Dr. F. W. Edridge-Green .
[ Nov. 15 , 1 and 2 cycles per second .
It may be as slow as 06 cycle per second ; or as fast as 2'5 .
In asphyxia the rate which obtained at the point of commencement may be triplicated before the attainment of the complete effect .
Thus a rate of 1 cycle per second may become one of 3'4 .
In normal narcosis progression the rate of rhythm may vary considerably in the same individual on different occasions .
Trichromic Vision and Anomalous Trichromatism .
By F. W. Edkidge-Green , M.D. , F.R.C.S. , Beit Memorial Research Fellow .
( Communicated by Prof. E. H. Starling , F.R.S. Received November 15 , 1912 , \#151 ; Read January 23 , 1913 .
) ( From the Institute of Physiology , University College , London .
) Definitions .
A. Trichromic Vision .
The trichromie in my classification of degrees of colour-perception are those who have only three colour sensations\#151 ; red , green , and violet .
They see only three colours in the bright spectrum and describe it as consisting of red , red-green , green , green-violet and violet .
They apply the designation red-green to the orange and yellow regions of the spectrum and green-violet to the blue region .
There are many degrees and varieties of trichromic vision ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ) .
I have classified the colour-perception of individuals as dichromic , trichromic , tetrachromie , pentachromic , hexachromic , and heptachromic .
This classification is made by estimating the number of definite colours seen in a bright spectrum , and the persons belonging to each class behave in every way as if they possessed the number of colour sensations indicated .
On my theory of colour-vision each colour sensation is separate and distinct and not compounded of two or more fundamental colour sensations .
For instance , there is the strongest evidence that yellow is a simple sensation ( 18 , 24 , 25 , 26 ) and that spectral yellow light does not excite the red and green sensations .
B. Anomalous Trichromatism .
The term anomalous trichromatism is used in the sense of the Young-Helmholtz theory in which all colour sensations are supposed to be made up of different proportions of three fundamental sensations .
A trichromat on this theory is therefore a person with normal colour-perception .
An

