431 1871 .
] On a New Group of Colloid Bodies .
aware that the action of sodium amalgam upon alkali nitrites had been recently investigated by M. Fremy* and M. Maumenef , neither of whom , however , have anticipated me in the discovery of the new class of salts here described .
The latter chemist finds that in one set of circumstances this action gives rise to a body allied in composition and properties to oxyam-monia , and in another only to ammonia .
M. Fremy finds that it produces oxyammonia , nitrogen which escapes , and nitrous oxide which remains in solution .
So far as I have since been able to experiment , I have found that , by proceeding in different ways , a very small and variable amount of oxyammonia , or a substance resembling it , is often obtained along with the sodium hyponitrite , which is always formed in material quantity ; and , further , that , under the circumstances which favour the formation of oxyammonia , there are also obtained , together with nitrous oxide , the products of the decomposition of oxyammonia by alkalies\#151 ; nitrogen and ammonia ( Lossen ) .
The presence of oxyammonia in the product of the action of sodium on sodium nitrate affords a more satisfactory explanation than that I have given of the darkening of the silver-salt after precipitation which I have sometimes observed to occur .
M. Fremy states that alkali nitrites do not decompose potassium permanganate ; and I now find that my assumption to the contrary is an error , based on an observation of considerable interest , which is that some good commercial nitrite in my possession slowly reduces the permanganate .
I have since ascertained that other samples of sodium nitrite have no action on the permanganate , and that the one which does react with it behaves also with copper- and lead-salts in such a way as to render very probable the presence in it of a minute quantity of my new salt .
This formation of hyponitrite , by heating sodium nitrate , if it does really take place , is in accordance with Hess 's observations of the action of heat on barium nitrate , and with mine on silver nitrite.\#151 ; E. D. III .
" Research on a New Group of Colloid Bodies containing Mercury , and certain Members of the series of Fatty Ketones By J. Emerson Reynolds , Member of the Royal College of Physicians , Edinburgh , Keeper of the Mineral Department , and Analyst to the Royal Dublin Society .
Communicated by Robert H. Scott , F.R.S. Received January 19 , 1871 .
Introduction.\#151 ; About ten years ago , when engaged in the examination of some of the constituents of the rectified wood-naphtha of commerce , I observed that moist and freshly precipitated mercuric oxide was dissolved by the naphtha in the presence of potassium hydrate , and that the resulting alkaline solution possessed highly characteristic properties .
It was ascer* Comptes Rendus ( 1870 ) , vol. lxx .
pp. 66 \amp ; 1208 .
+ Ibid. p. 149 .
Dr , J. E. Reynolds on a Group of [ Apr. 20 , tained that the solution of mercuric oxide under the conditions mentioned depended wholly on the presence of acetone in the crude wood-spirit ; since pure acetone , when treated in the same way with diluted alkali and mercuric oxide , afforded the same result , while the remaining constituents of wood-naphtha failed to produce the reaction .
Though obliged at the time to rest content with recording * the observations above referred to , I have since been able to resume the inquiry .
As the result , I now venture to lay before the Society the following account of some members of a series of ketone compounds containing mercury , and presenting all the characters of strongly marked colloid bodies , though chemically intermediate between the two groups of colloids previously made known by the researches of the late Professor Graham .
Acetone , being the most important member of the fatty ketone group , is the body whose compound with mercury I have studied with chief attention , and I may therefore describe in detail the results obtained with it .
1 .
Colloid body obtained by uniting Acetone with Mercuric Oxide.\#151 ; When solution of mercuric chloride is slowly added to a mixture of acetone with dilute aqueous solution of potassium hydrate , the mercuric oxide first precipitated is dissolved , with the production of a clear colourless liquid .
The addition of the mercurial solution can be continued until a white precipitate makes its appearance , the alkali being still in excess f. If the solution be filtered at this point , an apparently opalescent , yellowish-coloured liquid is obtained \#163 ; .
If one portion of this alkaline solution be boiled for a few minutes , a thick gelatinous mass suddenly separates , and further ebullition is rendered difficult , if not impossible .
Another portion of the liquid , when treated with an acid in slight excess , gelatinizes ; and if the original solution be moderately strong , the vessel in which the experiment is made may be inverted without risk of spilling its contents .
Finally , if some of the mercuric solution be exposed over sulphuric acid in vacuo , it leaves on partial evaporation a gelatinous mass , on the surface of which latter crystals of potassium chloride soon make their appearance .
When the desiccation is complete , a yellowish resinoid body is obtained , together with a large quantity of very beautiful acicular crystals of the chloride and a certain amount of potassic carbonate .
The solution of mercuric oxide in potassium hydrate in presence of acetone takes place as easily in alcoholic as in aqueous liquids .
Preliminary experiments similar to the foregoing were sufficient to in* Journal of the Koyal Dublin Society , vol. iv .
p. 114 .
f The same result can be obtained when mercuric oxide is precipitated from any of its salts , rapidly washed , and then digested with excess of acetone and potassium hydrate .
The best mode of operating , however , is that stated in the text .
J The different solutions exhibit a slight opalescence , not completely removable by ordinary filtration .
This opalescence appears to be due to the very gradual separation , at ordinary temperatures , of traces of the same anhydrous substance which is very rapidly thrown down at a boiling heat .
In composition the latter body is identical with the anhydride obtained by other methods and described further on .
1871.1 Mercurial Colloids and certain Fatty Ketones .
433 dicate that the chief compound produced in the reaction above referred to might be regarded as a colloid body .
I therefore took advantage of the late Professor Graham 's beautiful dialytic method * for effecting its purification from crystalloids , and have met with complete success .
a. Preparation of Colloid Liquid.\#151 ; As the preparation of a strong solution of the pure acetone mercuric compound suitable for dialysis is attended with some difficulty , I may now describe in detail the mode of operating proved by experience to afford the most satisfactory results .
Forty grammes of pure mercuric chloride are to be dissolved in about 500 cub. centims. of hot water and the solution then allowed to cool , even though crystals of the salt separate .
Twenty-nine grammes of potassium hydrate are next dissolved in about 300 cub. centims. of water : 15-20 cub. centims. of acetone should now be placed in a capacious glass balloon , and diluted with 250 cub. centims. of water .
The reaction is then to be managed as follows:\#151 ; About 150 cub. centims. of the alkaline solution should be added to the aqueous acetone , and then 250 cub. centims. of the mercuric chloride gradually poured in .
Re-solution of the mercuric oxide first thrown down proceeds slowly at the outset , if the mixture be not warmed .
After a time the oxide quickly redissolves , if the contents of the balloon are briskly agitated .
When the first half of the mercuric solution has been added , the remaining 150 cub. centims. of potassium hydrate are to be cautiously poured in and the residual mercuric chloride then mixed , with the precautions already stated .
The solution prepared in the manner described is usually turbid , but can be easily filtered clear from the small amount of mechanically suspended matter .
The filtrate should next be placed on a large hoop dialyzer , covered as usual with carefully prepared parchment-paper , and the vessel floated on a considerable volume of distilled water .
After two days ' action the diffusate will be found to contain a large quantity of potassium chloride , some potassium hydrate , and but a very small amount of mercury .
The process of diffusion is to be continued , the diffusate being replaced by pure water twice each day , until the liquid on which the dialyzer floats no longer affords a cloud when treated with a solution of silver nitrate .
The process may then be considered terminated , and the pure colloidal liquid obtained .
The contents of the dialyzer can be now removed , and should be free from all odour of acetone .
A few drops , when evaporated to dryness on platinum-foil and the residue ignited , should volatilize completely .
The mode of operating just described affords the strongest colloidal liquid that can be conveniently prepared directly in a pure state ; but where degree of concentration is of no importance , I find that it is better to dilute the alkaline mercurial solution with its own volume of pure water just before dialyzing .
The properties of the colloidal liquid will be described most conveniently * " Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis , " Philosophical Transactions , 1861 .
434 Dr. J. E. Reynolds on a New Group of [ Apr. 20 , after the results of the analyses of the anhydrous mercuric compound separable from it in the pure condition shall have been stated .
b. Analyses of the Anhydrous Compound.\#151 ; I took a considerable volume of the very carefully prepared colloid liquid and divided it in two parts .
One portion was very cautiously evaporated to dryness , and the resinoid residue very finely powdered and carefully dried .
The second portion was precipitated by the addition of dilute acetic acid , and the gelatinous precipitate washed rapidly and completely with the aid of Bunsen 's filter-pump , and the residue dried .
The desiccation in each case was effected at first in vacuo over sulphuric acid , and finally on the water-bath .
The compound easily bears a temperature of 100 ' C. On analyzing both products , I found that they were practically identical in composition .
The residue of the evaporation of the colloid liquid contained , as might be anticipated , a slightly greater proportion of mercury than the precipitate by dilute acid .
The circumstances under which the precipitate was produced , however , were such as to give most confidence in the purity of the product ; I have therefore employed this latter or similar preparations in many of the determinations , the results of which will be presently stated .
The compound was found to contain carbon , hydrogen , mercury , and oxygen , and to be free from chlorine .
As the presence of the volatile metal introduced some difficulty in the determinations , it is necessary to describe the plan of analysis adopted .
The mercury was in some cases obtained in the metallic state by distillation with quicklime ; but I much prefer to digest a weighed quantity of the compound in a sealed tube with dilute hydrochloric acid , and , after complete solution has taken place , to break the tube , precipitate the metal from the contents by sulphuretted hydrogen , and weigh the mercury in the usual way as sulphide .
The results are very satisfactory .
The presence of a large proportion of mercury in the compound rendered the accurate determination of carbon and hydrogen somewhat difficult .
At the outset of this investigation I arranged a very troublesome process of analysis , similar to that employed by Messrs. Frankland and Duppa in their analysis of mercuric ethide and its analogues .
In all later combustions I have adopted the very simple and satisfactory plan of placing in the anterior part of the combustion-tube a layer of fifteen centimetres of any metal capable of easily amalgamating with mercury .
Gold- and silver-foil answer the purpose well : no doubt tin-foil might be used in the same way .
It is scarcely necessary to add that the temperature of the anterior part of the combustion-tube containing the gold or silver was in each instance very carefully regulated .
The following results were obtained :\#151 ; I. '997 grm. of substance gave *9037 grm. of Hg S. II .
*8618 grm. of substance gave *3077 grm. of C03 and . !
158 grm. of HaO .
1871 .
] Mercurial Colloids and certain Fatty Ketones .
III .
*4940 grin , of another preparation gave *4485 grm. of Hg S. IV .
*6640 grm. afforded *2344 grm. of C02 and *0870 grm. of Ha O. V. 1-2148 grm. of residue of evaporation of colloid liquid gave 9*562 grm. of Hg .
VI .
*8156 grm. of another preparation gave *6425 grm. of Hg .
Experiment .
Calculated .
S __ _ .
1 " \#166 ; TI"S ... 72 9-43 I. II .
III .
IV .
V. VI .
Carbon ... 9-73 ... 9-62 ... ... Hydrogen ... ... 12 1-57 ... 1-49 ... 1-45 ... Mercury ... 600 78-53 78-10 ... 78-26 ... 78-71 78-77 Oxygen ... 80 10-47 764 10000 ... ... | The composition of the body is therefore well represented by the formula ( ( CH3)2C0)2Hg303 .
c. Properties of the Colloid Body , Hydrated and Anhydrous.\#151 ; Analogy would lead us to conclude that the colloidal liquid obtained by dialysis is a hydrate of the body represented by the above formula ; but since evaporation in vacuo is sufficient to remove the water completely , the hydrate can possess but little stability .
Properly speaking , this hydrate is no doubt a true liquid , and as such is miscible with other liquids .
The reaction of this hydrate is neutral to test-papers .
When the aceto-mercuric hydrate contains five per cent , of the anhydrous compound , it will , if quite pure , remain liquid for twelve or fourteen days , toward the end of this time becoming gradually less fluid , until the whole " sets " to a firm jelly .
The same result may be brought about in a few seconds by the addition to the perfectly neutral liquid of very minute quantities of any of the following substances:\#151 ; Hydrochloric , acetic , nitric , sulphuric ( incompletely ) , chromic , oxalic , tartaric , or citric acids ; by potassium , sodium , ammonium , barium , and calcium hydrates ; by calcium chloride , mercuric chloride , sodium acetate , and other neutral salts .
Contact with certain insoluble powders , such as calcium carbonate , and even alumina , induces pectization* .
Elevation of temperature quickly determines the gelatination of the liquid .
If containing five per cent , of the ketone compound , a very firm jelly is produced on heating to 50 ' C. In one experiment , a quantity of the liquid was taken and some bright , carefully cleaned copper-gauze introduced .
The liquid did not pectize , nor did any trace of mercury deposit on the copper , after standing for a day .
The temperature of the whole was then raised to 50 ' C. ; a transparent jelly was at once produced , of such strength that the vessel in which it was contained could * In accordance with the nomenclature of Prof. Graham , we must call the liquid colloid hydrate the " hydrosol " of the new compound , the gelatinous hydrate the " hydrogel , " and the change from the former to the latter " pectization .
" 436 J)r , J. E. Reynolds on a New Group of [ Apr. 20 , be inverted without any risk of loss .
This jelly , inclosing the bright copper-gauze , has remained in my possession for eight months without giving the slightest indications of a disposition to change .
Small zoological specimens , when inclosed in the same way in a jelly of the mercuric ketone compound , were found to keep well when carefully cleansed before they were sealed up in the gelatinous envelope .
By evaporation , a liquid containing eight per cent , of the ketone compound was obtained , but it pectized in a few jhours .
A two per cent , hydrate retained its liquidity for several months .
Once a jelly formed in any of these liquids , I have not succeeded completely in reconverting it to the liquid state by very cautious treatment with potassium hydrate , even when aided by diffusion .
The alcosol of .
the mercuric ketone compound was obtained by the method adopted by Prof. Graham in preparing the corresponding silicic alcoholate , \#151 ; that is to say , by adding to a one per cent , hydrate an equal volume of alcohol , and exposing the mixture over quicklime until most of the water was removed : the alcosol remained .
This liquid could be boiled without pectizing ; but if the ebullition continued for some time , a jelly was suddenly obtained .
This insoluble jelly corresponded to that produced on heating the hydrate , or adding to it any of the bodies capable of pectizing it ; in the former case alcohol , and in the latter water , being associated or united with the mercuric ketone compound .
It has now been shown that the new body is capable of affording a hydrosol and hydrogel , an alcosol and it must therefore be regarded as a very strongly marked member of Prof. Graham 's group of these colloids , though chemically differing wridely from previously described compounds of this class , " When the colloid hydrate was treated with sulphuretted hydrogen , mercuric sulphide was produced .
The liquid filtered from the sulphide yielded acetone on distillation .
Digestion with dilute hydrochloric acid likewise effected the decomposition of the colloid body , mercuric chloride being produced and acetone liberated .
Nitric and sulphuric acids , when dilute , did not decompose the compound with the same facility as hydrochloric acid .
Treatment of the hydrosol with copper , zinc , or iron at ordinary temperatures , failed to effect the substitution of either metal for the mercury in the compound .
Prolonged contact with each of the two last-mentioned metals caused pectization , the metal subsequently becoming encrusted with a white substance .
Heat produced the same result more rapidly .
When the anhydrous compound was cautiously heated , a quantity of acetone distilled over , and , as the temperature rose , empyreumatic products and mercury were evolved .
When the heat was suddenly applied , much metallic mercury distilled over , and a minute quantity of a liquid , having the odour of mercuric methide , was produced , together with carbonic anhydride and other gaseous bodies not particularly examined .
If 1871.1 Mercurial Colloids and certain Fatty , Ketones .
437 mercuric methide be formed during the rapid decomposition of the mercuric compound , the first step in the reaction by which it is produced may be explained by the following equation : [ 2CO(CH3)2 , 3HgO]=2^g*| Hg)+Hg+2C0a+0 .
The mercuric methide produced in the first instance , probably at another stage suffers nearly complete decomposition in presence of the oxygen liberated at the outset of the reaction .
d. Chemical nature of the Diaceto-mercuric In the preceding section the properties of the colloid liquid and other bodies obtained by dialysis from the potass solution have been described ; but the potassium hydrate used in the first instance may be replaced by solution of sodium , barium , or even calcium hydrate , and yet the same ultimate result arrived at .
When sodium hydrate is employed , no material difference is observed at any stage of the operations , but when barium hydrate is substituted , re-solution of mercuric oxide in presence of acetone is quickly effected with the aid of heatj but this alkaline solution slowly decomposes , yielding a white precipitate of the mercuric ketone compound , mixed with a little barium carbonate .
This decomposition takes place in closed vessels , and most rapidly when the solution has been boiled in course of preparation , and when no excess of barium hydrate has been employed beyond the amount absolutely required to secure the retention of the mercuric compound in solution .
Keeping in view the peculiar mode of generation of the mercuric ketone compound , its solubility in alkaline liquids at the time of its format tion , and insolubility without decomposition in acid solutions , its power of uniting with water to form both liquid and gelatinous hydrates , and the extremely close analogy of these in properties and relations to the " co-silicic acids " of Prof. Graham , we are compelled to attribute to the new hydrates very feeble acid functions .
The alkaline solutions above referred to may therefore be regarded as containing metallic salts of a peculiar acid , derived from the compound ( ( CH3)aCO)2Hg303 , already described .
That these salts are , however , even more easily decomposed than alkaline silicates is shown :\#151 ; 1st .
By the easy decomposition of the potassium salt by the process of liquid diffusion .
The osmotic force alone is sufficient for this purpose , the high diffusive energy of potassium hydrate enabling it to rapidly pass through the dialytic septum , leaving behind the colloid acid in the liquid state .
The analogous decomposition occurs somewhat less readily in the case of potassium silicate .
2nd .
By the facility with which the new acid may be displaced from the aqueous solutions of its potassium , sodium , or barium salts by so feeble an agent as carbonic acid .
Solutions of alkaline silicates are well known to decompose in the same manner , but less rapidly .
438 Dr. J. E. Reynolds on a New Group of [ Apr. 20 , 3rd .
By the fact that heat alone is able to effect the decomposition of the potassium salt , a solution of the latter giving a yellowish-white precipitate of the anhydrous mercuric ketone compound on violent ebullition , the alkali remaining dissolved* .
Re-solution does not take place on cooling , or on digestion with an excess of the metallic hydrate at the ordinary temperature .
It is , however , worthy of note here that the gelatinous precipitate produced by acetic acid in a solution of the potassium salt is soluble in excess of potassium hydrate immediately after its formation ; but it soon loses this property and alters somewhat in appearance , becoming more dense .
With a view to obtain , if possible , some evidence of the basicity of the acid , a quantity of mercuric chloride was dissolved in water , the theoretical proportion of pure acetone added , and excess of potassium hydrate .
Complete re-solution of the mercuric oxide was obtained as usual .
To the alkaline liquid dilute hydrochloric acid was added , until a moderate quantity of the white mercuric-acetone compound had been precipitated .
The whole was then filtered as clear as possible .
The filtrate now contained , in addition to potassium chloride resulting from the reaction , a certain amount of the mercuric-acetone compound , held in solution by a minimum of alkali .
In order to determine the ratio between the anhydride or acid and potassium present in combination , 100 cub. centims. of this solution were now taken , treated with excess of hydrochloric acid , and the mercury precipitated as sulphide by means of sulphuretted hydrogen .
The pure mercuric sulphide obtained in this manner weighed ] *056 gramme : this amount represents ri591 gramme of the anhydrous mercuric-acetone compound , as calculated from the formula already found for that body .
Another 100 cub. centims. of the same solution were taken , and dilute sulphuric acid of known strength very cautiously added , until a drop of the liquid faintly reddened blue litmus-paper : 5*4 cub. centims. of acid were required ; this amount of acid represented *2106 gramme of potassium .
100 cub. centims. of the solution , completely free from excess of alkali , therefore contained of grm. ( CO(CH , UHg,0 , ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1-1591 K ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
-2106 These numbers , when divided in the usual way by the respective atomic weights , gave the proportion of 1 : 3*6 .
The foregoing experiment is but one of many performed with a similar result , the main ratio found for different solutions being 1 : 3*7 .
When the conditions under which the determinations were made are considered , the ratio 1 : 4 may be admitted as the true result .
* In this , as in many other respects , a strong solution closely resembles in deportment a liquid containing white of egg .
1871 .
] Mercurial Colloids and certain Fatty .439 A solution of the barium salt was now prepared with great care , the presence of excess of barium hydrate being guarded against by very cautious manipulation in the first instance , and subsequent treatment with acetone and mercuric chloride , until the liquid ceased to dissolve more mercuric oxide .
The acid treatment resorted to in the case of the potassium salt was found to be unsuitable in the present instance : 100 cub. centims. of the clear filtered liquid were taken , immediately after preparation of the solution , and treated with excess of hydrochloric acid until complete decomposition was effected ; the mercury was then precipitated as sulphide : .5062 gramme was obtained ; this amount represents *5555 gramme of the anhydrous mercuric-acetone compound . .
100 cub. centims. were treated with a standard acid : 3 3 cub. centims. were required before an acid reaction was developed ; this corresponds to *2244 gramme of barium .
We therefore find in 100 cub. centims. of the solution of ( CO(CH , )1)1Hg,0 , ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . . .
-5555 Ba " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..*2244 When these numbers are treated as before , we find that the ratio of anhydrous ketone compound to barium is 1 : 1*84 .
As in the case of the potassium salt , the chances of error are altogether in the direction of under-estimating the barium and over-estimating the remaining constituent of the salt ; the ratio 1:2 may therefore fairly be taken as the practical result of these determinations .
Potassium being monovalent and barium divalent , it would appear that the solutions above mentioned contained respectively the normal potassium and barium salts of an extremely feeble but yet distinctly marked fetrabasic acid .
When any one of these liquids was evaporated to dryness in vacuo over sulphuric acid , a resinoid mass was in each case obtained , from which metallic chloride was removable by water ; but since partial decomposition appeared to take place during the process of evaporation in each case , the now insoluble resinoid body , containing potassium , sodium , or barium , could not be regarded as a pure salt ; nor have I succeeded in obtaining any other solid compound of this acid in a condition Suitable for analysis .
When to a liquid containing the potassium salt of the acid a solution of potassium hydrate , saturated with zinc hydrate , was added , a semitransparent gelatinous precipitate was obtained .
On washing with water this substance quickly became basic .
Other attempts with various metals did not afford better results , precipitates of variable composition being obtained in each case .
It would appear , then , that only the most powerful soluble metallic hydrates are capable of forcing the new acid to remain in combination , and that even these alkaline salts are so feebly held together , that decomposition attends the attempt to obtain tbem in the Solid state. .
' TOL XIX .
44a Dr. J. E. Reynolds on a New Group of [ Ajjr .
20 , If we admit the existence of these salts in the solutions examined , they might be named di-aceto-mercuratesy or probably , the latter name being used as a general term .
e. Detection of Acetone in the *fMethylated Spirit *.*\#166 ; of .\#151 ; Since acetone is , according to my experience , invariably present in the wood-gpirit of commerce , the reaction with mercuric oxide in presence of potassium hydrate , already described , becomes virtually a test for the presence of pyroxilic spirit in any mixture .
The ordinary " methylated spirit " of .
commerce is such a mixture , and the acetone present in it can be detected with great facility in the following way :\#166 ; \#151 ; Take 200 cub. centims. of the-spirit and rapidly distil off 50 cub. centims. ; dilute the distillate with an equal volume of water , and slightly warm with addition of a few cub. centims. of solution of potassium hydrate .
On cautious addition of mercuric chloride , the oxide first thrown down is speedily redissolved : excess of the mercuric ; salt must he carefully avoided .
The alkaline liquid should be filtered clear , much of the alcohol allowed to evaporate slowly , and the residue then divided in two portions .
One part is to be'violently boiled for a few minutes ; a yellowish-white gelatinous precipitate will " suddenly make its appearance , if the acetone compound he present .
In the second portion , dilute acetic acid , when added in slight excess , should produce a bulky , white , gela- , tinous precipitate containing , when washed and completely dried , between 78 and 79 per cent , of mercury .
: Ul Finally , by means of the above test the admixture of " methylated spirit " with alcoholic solutions may be detected with facility .
In all , such cases , however , a specimen of a pure alcoholic solution should be tested at the same time as the suspected sample , distillation of considerable quantities of the liquids being resorted to in every instance .
2 .
Bodies containing Mercury and higher members of series.\#151 ; Experience has proved that several ketones of the fatty series are capable of uniting with mercuric oxide in the presence of alkali to form % compounds analogous to that obtained with acetone .
The higher ketone^ being insoluble in water though soluble in alcohol , it was found to be ex* tremely difficult to prepare the colloidal hydrates or hydrosols of the mer\#171 ; curie compound .
# ^ In the case of butyrone , however , I have succeeded completely in obtaining a hydrosol .
The general reactions of the several solutions leave no doubt thatt compound contained in each belongs to the group of colloid bodies and not* to that of crystalloids .
The following results have been obtained(a ) With Propione.\#151 ; The rectified product of the careful destructive distillation of barium propionate was dissolved in alcohol and mercuric chloride added ; excess of strong aqueous solution of potassium hydrate ?
was then poured in ; on gently warming the mixture the mercuric oxi \#174 ; dissolved in great part .
The liquid , filtered as clear as possible , was foun\lt ; | 1871 .
] ' Mercurial Colloids and certain Fatty .
441 to be rich in mercury , and when treated with excess of dilute acetic acid , gave a white gelatinous precipitate precisely analogous to that obtained under similar circumstances from the potassium di-aceto-mercurate .
The precipitate was found on analysis to contain 72*26 per cent , of mercury ; the formula requires 73*17 percent .
On treatment with hydrochloric acid , the precipitate afforded mercuric chloride and an oily liquid , insoluble in water , possessing the odour of and characters attributed to propione .
( b ) With Butyrone.\#151 ; The rectified product of the destructive distillation of calcium butyrate , when dissolved in alcohol and treated with mercuric chloride and potassium hydrate , gave , on warming , a liquid similar to that obtained with propione .
Like the latter , it afforded a white precipitate on treatment with excess of dilute acetic acid .
The precipitate , when carefully washed and dried , contained 69*1 and 69*27 per cent , of mercury , the formula ( ( C3H7)2C0)Hg303 requiring 68*49 per cent. The freshly prepared precipitate , when digested with excess of hydrochloric acid , afforded mercuric chloride and a small quantity of a liquid insoluble in water and recognizable as butyrone .
The alkaline alcoholic solution of the butyrone mercuric compound was diluted with its own volume of water , then filtered and carefully warmed in order to slowly evaporate the alcohol as much as possible .
When a considerable portion of the latter had been removed in this way , the clear residual liquid was placed on a dialyzer , and the attempt made to diffuse away the crystalloids from the liquid .
After treatment for five days , most of the chloride had diffused away , and a liquid was obtained which pec-tized on heating to near the boiling-point and on the addition of a small quantity of a mineral acid .
The precipitate first formed by hydrochloric acid was easily redissolved on heating with excess of the reagent , and the odour of the ketone developed .
The attempt to convert the alcosol of the mercuric compound into the hydrosol had therefore been attended With success .
( c ) With Valerone , obtained by purifying the product of the distillation of calcium valerate previously mixed with one-sixth of its weight of quicklime .
When this was dissolved in alcohol and the solution was rendered alkaline by potassium hydrate and mercuric chloride dropped in , the mercuric oxide first precipitated was speedily redissolved ; but from the solution no precipitate was thrown down on addition of an acid previously mixed with alcohol .
I have not obtained any compound from this alkaline liquid possessing distinctive properties .
It is not improbable that the valerone mercuric compound , if formed , is more easily decomposed by acids than the corresponding bodies obtained with other ketones ; hence the difficulty of isolating it .
3 .
Deportment of certain Aldehydes in presence of Mercuric Oxide and Alkaline Metallic Hydrate.\#151 ; The close similarity in chemical relations be2 m 2 On a New Group of Mercurial Colloids [ Apr. 20 , tween the members of the groups of ketones and of aldehydes suggested the attempt to combine the latter bodies with mercuric oxide .
Though the experiments in this direction cannot properly be detailed in this communication , I may be permitted to state that when the aldehyde of the ethyl series was warmed with freshly precipitated mercuric oxide in presence of potassium hydrate , solution of the oxide did not take place , but the latter gradually united with the aldehyde to form a white non-crystalline compound .
I have not obtained any colloid liquid in the course of my experiments with this body .
Certain other aldehydes of the same series were found to unite with mercuric oxide , yielding soluble compounds easily decomposed by weak acids .
The investigation of the bodies produced in these reactions has been attended with peculiar difficulty , owing , on the one hand , to the facility with which several aldehydes are converted into resinoid products of variable composition by contact with caustic alkali ; and , on the other , to the circumstance that an aldehyde can react either as the oxide of a divalent group ( CnH2\#171 ; " 0 ) , or as the hydride of a monovalent acid radical ( CwH2m_iO , H , or , for terms of the series above metbylic aldehyde , we may write the formula CO(CnH2\#171 ; _i ) H ) .
It may be added , that the well-known tendency of the aldehyde to yield polymeric compounds has in no degree lessened the uncertainty attending the examination of the products of the action of mercuric oxide and alkali upon the members of the group .
Leaving the statements contained in the last section out of consideration for obvious reasons , I may now be allowed to summarize the results of the investigation detailed in the foregoing pages .
It has been shown :\#151 ; 1st .
That certain fatty ketones can be made to unite directly with mercuric oxide .
2nd .
That the resulting compounds afford a new group of colloid hydrates , analogous in properties to the silicic , albuminic , and other hydrates already made known by the researches of Professor Graham .
3rd .
That the new hydrates may best be regarded as extremely feeble conjugate acids , the chief member of the group ( that derivable from acetone ) being probably tetrabasic and capable of affording very unstable salts .
J 4th .
That the generating reaction for the di-keto-mercurates may , when carefully controlled , be employed as a test for the presence of a ketone ( especially for acetone ) in certain organic mixtures .

