100 Messrs. Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford .
number of bands concerned is about 96 per atmosphere of air , or about 62 over the range actually used .
It is wise always to include a match with pressures about midway between the extremes .
If the results harmonise , an error of a single band is excluded , and it is hardly possible to make a mistake of two bands .
As regards accuracy , independent final results usually agree to one-thousandth part .
" On Nagana , or Tsetse Fly Disease .
( Deport , made to the Tsetse Fly Committee of the Eoyal Society , of Observations and Experiments carried out from November , 1896 , to August , 1898 .
) " By A. A. Kanthack , H. E. Durham , and W. F. H. Blandford .
Deceived October 27 , 1898 .
At the request of the Colonial Office , the Eoyal Society of London appointed a Committee to co-operate with Surgeon-Major Bruce in his research upon Nagana or the Tsetse Fly disease .
This Committee entrusted us with the actual experimental work .
The object was to study Nagana systematically in ordinary laboratory animals , to investigate the life-history of the hsematozoon discovered by Bruce , and , if possible , to discover methods of prevention , cure , or immunisation .
The material for our observations was obtained in the first instance from the blood of a dog infected by the disease on the voyage from Africa , and brought to England in November , 1896 , by Dr. Waghorn .
The investigation was begun at once at the pathological laboratory of St. Bartholomew 's Hospital , but in February , 1897 , was transferred to the pathological laboratory of the University of Cambridge .
The Hcematozoonof nagana has already been described by Bruce , and in a horse in Algeria is also similar .
In English sewer rats mcmus ) a Trypanosoma ( T. sanguinis ) is occasionally found , but this is quite distinct from the hgematozoon of nagana , both in its morphological appearance and in its pathogenic effects ( vide infra ) .
closely allied to the Trypanosoma of Surra .
We have had no oppor-nity of studying the latter disease , the relation of which to nagana is Eerred to later .
The parasite discovered and described by Eouget* I. Susceptibility .
Cats , dogs , mice , rabbits , rats , both sewer rats decumanus ) and white and piebald rats ( Mus rattus ) , are highly susceptible , and in these animals the disease has proved fatal in every case of infection which has been allowed to run to a close .
* \lt ; Annals de l'Institut Pasteur , ' 1896 , p. 716 .
On Nagana , or Tsetse Fly Disease .
A single hedgehog inoculated was readily infected and died in seventeen days , so that this animal probably possesses a high susceptibility .
A single donkey was inoculated and was killed twelve weeks later , being then in a weak condition and near dying .
Two horses have been inoculated , one a strong and well-fed cart horse ( " Russian " ) , which survived seven weeks , the other a rather old animal ( see under zebra hybrids ) which survived only eight days .
A bosch-bokhas also been inoculated it died seven months afterwards without showing any lesions .
All the inoculations made from it proved negative .
Two hybrids of zebra and horse ( $ zebra and $ horse , and $ horse and $ zebra ) and one hybrid of zebra and ass ( ass \#163 ; and $ zebra ) have also been inoculated .
These were kindly put at the disposal of the Royal Society by Professor Cossar Ewart , of Edinburgh , in order to see whether such hybrids are refractory to nagana .
The two former were infected by plunging a needle wetted with nagana blood beneath the skin ; the latter received a dose of 1 cubic centimetre of the same blood .
All of them died in about eight weeks .
During the course of the disease they showed irregular rises of temperature , sometimes up to 41-6 ' C. Variations in the number of haematozoa were ascertained in the case of the hnrse hybrids ; on some occasions they were abundant ( 66,000 per cubic millimetre ) .
Whenever the donkey hybrid was examined at the earlier stage of the illness the hsematozoa were found to be either scanty or absent .
A horse which was inoculated as a control died in eight days , with very abundant hsematozoa in its blood ; this animal must have been peculiarly susceptible to nagana , as no other cause for death could be found at post-mortem examination .
There is no reason for supposing that the hybrids exhibited any more refractoriness than other horses or asses .
Koch* reports on attempts which he made to infect two Masai donkeys , and two crosses from Muscat and Masai donkeys .
None of these showed any symptoms of the disease up to three and a half months , nor were hsematozoa discovered in their blood at any time , although repeated examinations were made .
Consequently there is no proof that these animals were really infected .
In our experience scratch inoculations sometimes , though rarely , fail : on the other hand , inoculations by puncture with a needle or by actual injection do not fail j Kochs animals were inoculated by the scratch method .
It should be added that all his control infections were successful .
He did not find that ordinary mules showed any immunity .
With regard to guinea-pigs , at first we thought that they were refractory under normal conditions , and that it was possible to infect them only after their resistance had been reduced by bleeding or other interferences .
I 2 * ' Reiseberickte , ' pp. 69 and 88 .
102 Messrs. Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford .
We found , however , that guinea-pigs are susceptible to nagana under ordinary conditions , hut that , as a rule , the disease in them is more protracted than in rabbits , rats , mice , cats or dogs , and even horses ; so that they are distinctly more resistant than these animals .
In no instance , however , has recovery ensued after haematozoa have once appeared in the blood .
According to unpublished observations by Bruce upon the Tsetse Fly Disease in South Africa , it appears that native goats and are to some extent refractory , the disease , as a rule , running a chronic course ( five months ) .
A monkey ( Macacusrhesus ) was also tried .
It died in about two weeks in an advanced condition of pulmonary tuberculosis , but the presence of abundant haematozoa had been determined in the blood during life up to the time of death .
A weasel was injected .
It showed hsematozoa in its blood , and died a few days later , but death almost certainly was hastened by the effects of captivity . . .
Pigeons are the only birds which have yet been tried .
The pigeons after inoculation did not show signs of the disease , nor was their blood infective .
It may be mentioned that Bruce tried South African hens without success .
Further experiments with birds are in hand .
Young animals , if susceptible ( kittens and puppies ) , as a rule have died earlier than adults , and while suckling they are still more highly predisposed ; young guinea-pigs , however , are comparable to older ones in their resistance .
The foetus in utero of infected rabbits , guinea-pigs or rats , is not infected , although the mother 's blood may contain a large number of haematozoa .
The latter are to be found in the placenta , but not m the foetal blood .
Similar observations have also been made by Lewis , Lingard , !
and RougetJ in their investigations on allied haematozoa .
II .
Duration of Disease in the different Animals .
As will be seen from the figures given below , the lethal period varies somewhat in each species of susceptible animal .
The duration of the disease appears to depend principally upon the individual susceptibility rather than on the mode of inoculation or the quantity ol infective material introduced .
Thus , of four rabbits inoculated m the same manner with the same material , three died on the 12th , -1st , ant 24th days respectively , whilst the fourth was killed on the 41st day , many similar instances could be cited .
Nor does a larger quantity necessarily determine a more rapid death ; thus a rabbit which has * * ' Physiol , and Pathol .
Researches , ' p. 630 .
t ' Summary of Further Report on Surra , ' 1895 .
+ \lt ; Annals de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' 1896 , p. 716 .
On Nagana , or Tsetse Disease .
received the whole blood of another rabbit containing numerous haematozoa may survive longer than the minimal lethal period for rabbits .
We have not been able to define the conditions which determine these variations in susceptibility .
Rouget has noted similar variations in the lethal period .
The ratio of the minimal to the maximal lethal periods is about 1 to 5 or 1 to 6 in rabbits and rats , and 1 to 9 in guinea-pigs .
The number of other animals inoculated has not been sufficiently great to determine a satisfactory ratio .
In our experiments dogs survived an infection 14\#151 ; 26 days , cats 22\#151 ; 26 days , rats 6\#151 ; 26 days , mice 8\#151 ; 25 days , rabbits 13\#151 ; 58 days , and guinea-pigs 20\#151 ; 183 days ; the average duration being for dogs 18 days , for cats 24 days , for rats 12 days , for mice 13 days , for rabbits 30 days , and for guinea-pigs 50 days .
Since the commencement of these experiments , a large number of animals have been dealt with , and thus an extensive series of cross-inoculations has been carried out ; but we have found that the duration of the disease is not dependent on the kind of animal from which the haematozoa are derived .
No constant modification is , therefore , effected by passages , either in the direction of attenuation or of increased virulence .
This statement is completely borne out by Bruce 's observations on wild animals , as well as African sheep and goats , for he found that the hsematozoa of these animals were as infective as those obtained from highly susceptible animals , such as dogs .
III .
Mode of Inoculation .
Inoculations have been made with the blood of an infected animal , subcutaneously , intravenously , or intraperitoneally , or by applying a minute and often minimal quantity of infected blood to a superficial scratch .
Rabbits have also been inoculated in the anterior chamber of the eye , and rats directly into a lymphatic gland .
Blood taken from diseased animals , although showing no hsematozoa when examined microscopically , has frequently been proved to be fully infective , so that it appears that a single hsematozoon , or at any rate a very small number of them , successfully introduced , are capable of producing the disease .
At present no method of graduating the dose appears possible , since a minute quantity is as effective as much larger quantities , though the lethal period may be somewhat prolonged .
It is also possible that unrecognised forms are present in these cases , though it should be added that in some instances where no hamiatozoa are found in simple films , we were able to detect them by means of centrifugalising the blood .
Successful inoculations have also been made with lymphatic gland , spleen , bone-marrow , aqueous humour , serous fluid , oedema transudation , and testicular juice .
104 Messrs. Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford .
The incubation period and the duration of the disease , as already-pointed out , are not entirely dependent upon the number of hsematozoa in the material injected , or the source of the infective material .
Thus the hgematozoa of lymphatic glands , \amp ; e. , are as infective as those of the blood .
The duration of the disease is not materially affected by the mode of inoculation adopted , and is about the same , whether the infection was brought about by subcutaneous , intravenous , or intra-peritoneal injection , or by a superficial scratch .
Material taken from the bodies of animals twenty-four hours , or sometimes less , after death , is hardly ever infective , even when several cubic centimetres are injected , so that we have no evidence of a resisting or sporing form which survives in the tissues or blood of the dead animal , and is inoculable into other mammals .
It must be added that putrefactive changes often set in with great rapidity in the bodies of animals dead of nagana .
Blood drawn from the living infected animal and kept vitro in an aseptic condition , retains its infective power at most for three or four days , but this period is generally less .
Complete drying also renders blood non-infective .
Blood heated to 50 ' for thirty minutes invariably becomes non-infective , even in large doses ( such as 4 c.c. ) , while when heated to 46 ' C. for half an hour it proved infective in one out of two cases , although apparently the hsematozoa had become non-motile\#151 ; at least no motile forms were detected under the microscope .
But even in this case the lethal period was not prolonged .
Infection by feeding has been attempted by means of a number of experiments .
Sometimes it was successful , in most cases unsuccessful , so that it has seemed to us that the possibility of infection by the mouth depends on accidental lesions about the mouth , nose , ears ( in rats ) , or alimentary tract .
Of a number of rats fed on organs of nagana animals , only a few acquired the disease , and these invariably showed superficial lesions of the snout and ears , due to lice .
When fed upon infective material , they bury their snouts in it as well as scratch their ears with their blood-stained forepaws .
Furthermore , in the rats which acquired the disease through feeding , the cervical glands were always enlarged most , which proves that the hsematozoal infection must have taken place in the head , for , as we shall show , the primary infection travels by the lymphatics .
A cat fed repeatedly on soft tissues of the bodies of infected dogs and cats , and subsequently on the bodies of dead rats , died at a time corresponding by lethal period to an infection at the first meal on lats .
We regard it as probable that some splinter of bone caused a superficial lesion through which the hsematozoa w ove enabled to enter .
One rabbit , fed carefully by means of a pipette with large quantities On Nagana , or Tsetse , Disease .
of infected blood , never showed the slightest sign of the disease .
Rouget ( op.cit .
) also failed to infect animals by the mouth .
Two rabbits , into whose conjunctival sacs several drops of blood containing very abundant hsematozoa , and a third rabbit whose eye was brought into contact with one of these , did not become infected .
We presume that Rouget 's positive results by this method were due to some accidental lesion .
A dog suffering from the disease did not infect her puppies during the last fourteen days of her life , nor did these puppies infect their foster mother ( she-cat ) after they had been inoculated .
Nor have we observed transmission of the disease through the mother 's milk in guinea-pigs .
Rouget alludes to a doubtful instance of infection by coitus in rabbits by means of the spermatic fluid .
We have not detected haematozoa in spermatic fluid obtained from the vesiculse seminales , and believe that in Rouget 's single positive case there may have been direct infection from the penis , which suffers considerably in rabbits and may become excoriated , so that it easily bleeds .
We therefore do not believe that it is possible to infect an animal by feeding in the absence of superficial lesions , and in this respect we differ from Bruce , who seems to imply that the hsematozoa can pass through the unbroken surface of the alimentary tract .
IV .
Symptoms and Coarse of the Disease .
These vary somewhat according to the nature of the animal , but there are certain striking symptoms which commonly occur in different groups of animals .
These may therefore be regarded as the most characteristic .
1 .
Muscular wasting and loss of power are evident in all but the small animals .
In rats , mice , and guinea-pigs they are but little marked or absent altogether .
In the horse , dog , cat , and rabbit the wasting is very conspicuous .
In the cat , dog , rabbit , and hedgehog there is marked loss of weight , amounting to 20\#151 ; 30 per cent. 2 .
Fever.\#151 ; In most animals which have been examined , there is a smart rise of temperature about the time of appearance of hsematozoa in the blood .
( Horse , 41'5 ' C. ; dog , 40 ' C. ; rabbit , 41 ' C. ; guinea-pig , not constant .
) Paroxysms of fever are common in the horse , as has already been shown by Bruce .
The temperature may rise to a considerable height ( 41'6 ' C. ) ; the same is true of the zebra-horse hybrids .
In a horse upon which daily observations were made , quick and sudden rises of temperature immediately followed an increase of the hsematozoa in the blood .
At the time of death there was marked pyrexia .
In the single donkey which we examined the temperature was generally raised throughout the course of the disease .
106 Messrs. Kanthaek , Durham , and Blandford .
In dogs there is also fever , the temperature becoming subnormal on approach of death .
In rabbits pyrexia is common , and generally the temperature is elevated throughout the disease , but it may fall suddenly to normal .
The temperature curve is always irregular , and no relation between the temperature curve and the hsematozoal curve could be established .
In cats also the fever is well marked , the temperature falling quickly towards the end .
It is difficult to speak with certainty of the temperature in such small animals as rats and mice .
* In guinea-pigs , representing less susceptible animals , fever as a rule is not a special feature .
The temperature is as irregular as it is in the normal animal , but the animal shows paroxysmal rises from time to time , sometimes above 41 ' ; these may be accompanied by an accession of hsematozoa into the circulation , but this is not a constant feature .
3 .
( Edema is common in certain animals , such as the horse , rabbit , cat , and dog , and is most marked about the head , legs , belly , or genitals .
In smaller animals , such as rats and mice , it is not usual , and in guinea-pigs it has not been observed .
In dense tissues , as the rabbit 's ear , there may be a local oedema at the site of inoculation .
Rabbits exhibit a special tendency to oedema of the external genital organs .
There is often great and progressive swelling of the prepuce or labia , as the case may be .
The swollen parts often excoriate and become sore and covered by crusts , so that the animal is in a sorry condition .
4 .
Changes in the Eyes and Nose.\#151 ; In cats , dogs , rats and rabbits turbidity of the aqueous humour , fibrinous plaques in the anterior chamber , and corneal opacities are occasionally observed .
In rabbits a muco-purulent conjunctivitis is common , and this may be followed by an opacity of the cornea and a turbidity of the aqueous humour , which under such conditions shows hsematozoa microscopically as well as leucocytes .
Hsematozoa have also been discovered in the conjunctival discharge in the earlier stages of the disease .
Vascular corneal ulcers sometimes occur in dogs , and the conjunctivitis of cats , dogs , rats and rabbits is frequently associated with oedema of the eyelids and face .
In rabbits the eyelids and nose frequently become almost entirely closed up by the drying of the secretion ; in the latter case they breathe with great difficulty , keeping their mouths open .
This condition has been described by Rouget ( op .
5 .
Anaemia.\#151 ; Some degree of anaemia is always present , but it does not seem to be so extreme as to lie the sole attributable cause of death , and points rather to a disturbance in the haematopoietic or the haema-tolytic mechanisms .
The number of red blood corpuscles steadily diminishes and nu- On Nagana , or Tsetse Disease .
cleated red corpuscles ( normoblasts ) often appear , especially in rats .
According to observations on rabbits the diminution of hemoglobin is roughly proportional to that of the blood coipuscles .
Leucocytosis is not a constant feature and when present is apparently due to the febrile temperature .
An excessive leucocytosis , such as occurs in leukemia , was never observed ; 15,000\#151 ; 34,000 leucocytes being the highest numbers recorded per cubic millimetre .
Blood drawn from an animal seriously ill , when clotted , generally exhibits a marked huffy coat ; the serum is often turbid and may undergo secondary clotting .
Instead of forming rouleaux , the red corpuscles tend to clump into masses and to lose their outlines , especially when the anaemia is pronounced ( rabbit , ass , and horse ) .
The serum of such blood , when mixed with normal blood of the same species of animal , causes the red corpuscles to clump together also .
The urine of infected dogs spectroscopically examined often shows an intense urobilin band .
6 .
Wounds do not heal well , and tend to break down and become septic , even though the operation has been performed with strict aseptic and antiseptic precautions .
The hsematozoa may be abundant in the discharge from the wounds .
Many animals , especially dogs , are apt to become infected with pyococci and other bacteria in the later stages of the disease , even when the inoculated material has been proved to be free from bacteria .
We conclude that a spontaneous terminal bacterial infection may occur when the marasmus has reached a certain degree .
This may accelerate death and is probably fairly often the case in the naturally acquired disease .
But we have often proved by cultures that bacteria are absent in uncomplicated cases of experimental inoculation .
7 .
A voracious appetite has not been observed in the infected laboratory animals ; some animals refuse their food and the stomach is not seldom empty after death .
8 .
Rats and guinea-pigs often exhibit convulsive or eclamptic seizures shortly before death , but otherwise guinea-pigs , rats , and mice show no symptoms of disease , except dullness in the later stages .
9 .
Transmission from one animal to another , without direct inoculation , has never been observed .
Nor have we come across instances of infection by coitus or through suckling , although we have dealt with large numbers of animals .
Y. Morbid Anatomy .
In rats and mice exactly the same conditions may be observed .
The most striking changes are :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Enlargement of the lymphatic glands , the glands corresponding Messrs. Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford .
to the seat of inoculation being always largest .
This observation is important , because from the relative size of the glands it is possible to determine the seat of infection .
To this allusion has already been made , when the effects of feeding were discussed .
The glands are generally red , congested , juicy , and oedematous ; in a few instances haemorrhagic extravasation has been observed .
In some cases all lymphatic glands in the body are enlarged , in others a particular series only .
If a rat be inoculated in the right thigh , the glands in the left axilla and left groin suffer last .
( 2 ) The spleen is much enlarged , with but few exceptions , and it is generally firm , friable , and dark coloured .
( 3 ) The liver generally shows some enlargement and may be fatty .
( 4 ) Wasting of the muscles and atrophy of the fat is , as a rule , not well marked .
( 5 ) Sub-pleural ecchymoses are sometimes present in the lungs , accompanied by a small amount of pleural fluid .
In rabbits the general enlargement of lymphatic glands is less noticeable .
The spleen is generally enlarged .
Petechial ecchymoses are rare .
Fatty degeneration of the liver is always present , and muscular wasting is often extreme .
Enlargement of testes has been observed .
In dogs muscular wasting is well marked , the animal being often reduced to a skeleton , but the fatty tissues are generally not much affected , except at the base of the heart , where the fat may undergo oedematous degeneration .
The general enlargement of the lymphatic gland is well marked , and , as in the rat , the glands are oedematous and congested , yellowish , or even show haemorrhagic extravasations .
The spleen is also greatly enlarged , granular , firm and friable .
Pericardial effusion is common , pleural effusion may be present .
Sub-pericardial petechiae and haemorrhages occur frequently , sub-peritoneal occasionally , and sometimes also sub-mucous in the intestines and stomach .
In cats wasting is pronounced , the glands are greatly enlarged , the spleen is also enlarged , the liver is slightly enlarged .
Haemorrhages beneath the pleura and pericardium have been noticed .
In guinea-pigs , which clinically often show no changes or symptoms at all , the morbid changes after death are not very well marked .
The spleen is generally moderately enlarged , and occasionally even considerably ; it is often very soft and rather pale .
The lymphatic glands are distinctly , but as a rule only slightly , enlarged , those corresponding to the seat of inoculation being always the most affected .
Haemorrhages have been observed in the lungs and in the stomach ; serous effusions and oedema have not been noted .
In all these animals the bone-marrow is sometimes dark red in colour , at other times natural , or paler than it should be .
In the shafts of the long bones the fat disappears and becomes replaced by " red " marrow .
OnNagorna , or Tsetse Fly Disease .
In many cases an iron reaction has been obtained with the liver , spleen , and kidney ( ammonium sulphide ; and K4FeCy6 +HC1 ) .
VI .
Distribution A. Blood .
After a latent period of some days , haematozoa are invariably found in the blood at some time or other during the course of the illness .
1 .
fiats.\#151 ; When the animal is inoculated with small quantities of infective blood , the latent period averages 3\#151 ; 4 days .
When , however , a large number of haematozoa is inoculated into the peritoneal cavity , the parasites may be found in the blood even after a few hours .
When the haematozoa have once appeared in the blood , they are generally found therein to the end , gradually increasing in number till the blood literally teems with them .
During the early stages of the disease , however , variations are frequently noted , inasmuch as an increase on one day may be followed by a marked decrease on the next .
In a few cases they have even temporarily disappeared from the circulation for a day or two , but this is distinctly rare in rats and mice , although common in other animals .
At the later stages the haematozoa may amount to 2,000,000\#151 ; 3,000,000 per cubic millimetre .
2 .
Mice.\#151 ; What has been said of rats applies also to mice .
3 .
Rabbits.\#151 ; In these animals , after inoculations with minute quantities of blood , the parasites first appear in the blood in about eight days , about the same time as the pyrexial attack .
They remain in the general circulation for a day or two in small numbers ; this is followed by a disappearance and reappearance for a variable number of days at irregular intervals .
In the animals which have been systematically examined the haematozoa do not appear abundantly until towards the close of the disease ; the largest number which has been estimated near the time of death has been 60,000 per cubic millimetre ( compare rats and mice ) , but even at that time they may be scanty and difficult to find .
They are also to be found in the fluid of the local oedema and discharge from wounds , conjunctiva , or genitals .
Although haematozoa may be so scanty that they cannot be discovered by the microscope ( sometimes even after centrifugalising ) , the animals show marked clinical symptoms .
Their blood has often been proved to be infective .
4 .
Dogs.\#151 ; Early in the disease , from 4\#151 ; 6 days , the haematozoa may be absent from the blood , but observations on their presence during life in the lymphatic glands have not been made .
Towards the end they become very numerous ( 100,000\#151 ; 300,000 per cubic millimetre ) .
Varia tions in the number of haematozoa are common , but as a rule haematozoa are numerous throughout the disease .
5 .
Cats.\#151 ; The latent period is about five days ; then the haematozoa 110 Messrs. Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford .
appear in the blood , and , with daily variations , quickly increase in number .
The variations are sometimes remarkable ; thus on one day the hsematozoa may be extremely numerous , while on the next day they will have become scanty .
6 .
Horse.\#151 ; Systematic observations on this animal , as well as on the donkey , have been made by Bruce .
In our first horse the latent period was seven days .
The first appearance of hsematozoa in the blood was followed by a sharp rise of the temperature .
After the hsematozoa once showed themselves they were generally scanty and often absent ( the centrifuge was not used ) , but an appearance of the hsematozoa in the blood was generally followed immediately by a paroxysm of fever .
A few days before death , however , the number increased greatly , falling again to zero two days before death and being low at the time of death .
7 .
Guinea-pigs.\#151 ; After a subcutaneous inoculation , a few hsematozoa will generally be found in the blood about the fifth to seventh day .
They may then again disappear and reappear from time to time , to disappear again after a few days .
This alternation may go on for weeks .
Then suddenly the hsematozoa become numerous and gradually increase , sometimes with irregular variations , till the blood is almost crowded , 200,000\#151 ; 500,000 per cubic millimetre being present .
The guinea-pigs die , generally without showing any symptoms , except perhaps convulsive attacks a day or two before death .
In some cases no hsematozoa have been found in the blood for over six weeks , although it has been examined daily .
They then appeared in small numbers , and after remaining scarce for a week or so , suddenly and rapidly increased as the disease approached its fatal termination .
It is , however , more common to find a few hsematozoa about a week after inoculation , this being followed by a more or less prolonged period of absence .
In cases where the disease runs a less protracted course , the hsema-tozoa become numerous about four weeks after the inoculation , when they are often present in large numbers ; but , as in the case of other animals , the number of haematozoa may be very variable , being almost enormous one day and very considerably less , or even very small , the next .
In a case where the guinea-pig had been bled before inoculation the disease ran a rather short course ; hsematozoa appeared nine days after the infection , rapidly rising in number to over 128,000 per cubic millimetre , the animal dying after twenty-two days .
In a few cases where the lymphatic gland corresponding to the seat of inoculation was examined , hsematozoa were found in the gland whilst they were absent in the blood .
Ill On Nay ana , or Tsetse Disease .
B. Lymphatic Glands .
In the rat the superficial lymphatic glands may he readily examined by piercing them with fine capillaries or sharp needles ; they may also be excised and examined more thoroughly .
Although a considerable number of observations have been made by these means , and also after killing the animals at various periods after inoculation , we wish to speak somewhat guardedly , since the appearances are not quite constant .
Moreover , we are at present unable to be certain that unrecognised developmental forms have not been overlooked .
By the study of the right inguinal glands after subcutaneous inoculation in the right thigh , we find that the hsematozoa are present from one to three days before they are discoverable in the blood ( taken from the ear or right leg ) .
Again , they may be very abundant in the gland when they are still scanty in the blood .
Moreover , the number in the blood may increase , whilst that in the gland decreases .
In these earlier stages the hsematozoa may be extremely numerous , forming tangles and clusters in the lymph gland , whilst only a few scattered ones are to be found in the blood .
The first appearance of hsematozoa in the gland of the other side is apparently associated with their appearance in the blood .
The observations , fewer in number , which have been made upon guinea-pigs , also point to a multiplication in or about the nearest chain of lymphatic glands in the first instance .
We have not yet determined whether these hsematozoa pass directly into the blood through the local blood vessels , or whether they are distributed by means of lymphatic paths into the main circulation .
The animals may appear comparatively well whilst large numbers of parasites are present in their blood and glands , this is especially the case with rats and guinea-pigs .
On the other hand they may be seriously ill whilst the hsematozoa are scanty in their blood ; this obtains usually in rabbits , in which animals , as already stated , the glands do not become so much enlarged , and it is possible that the main effect of the parasites is borne by other organs .
For instance , at times the bone-marrow has shown the presence of hsematozoa , although search in other organs and in the blood proved negative .
After death in the various animals , hsematozoa are to be found in most cases in the bone-marrow and spleen .
The adidt hsematozoa may be common in these situations when but few are present in the blood ; but this is not constant , for the reverse may be the case .
Multiplication of the parasites certainly takes place in the lymphatic glands ( rat ) as well as in the infected area of connective tissue ; it may also occur in the above-mentioned organs as well , and perhaps too in the blood , but of this we have no certain evidence .
112 Messrs. Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford .
The hsematozoa are also found in the fluids of the serous cavities , at any rate when they are present also in the blood .
They have not been found in the intestinal contents , nor have they been seen in the urine , except in one case in which haematuria and submucous petechise of the bladder were present ( rat ) .
It is evident from these observations that , in order to investigate the development of the haematozoa in the rat , \amp ; c. , special attention must be paid to the seat of inoculation and the nearest lymphatic glands .
Dead and non-motile forms may frequently be found in the circulation and in the lymphatic glands , when the disease is advanced .
These are less defined and are ghost-like , being somewhat swollen in appearance ; they are also generally in an extended condition .
VII .
Toxic Power of the Blood .
The fact that animals may appear to be well for days while hsematozoa are abundant in their blood , suggests that the hsematozoa do not secrete much , if any , specific toxin , and indeed so far no direct evidence has been obtained of a potent poison manufactured by the hsematozoa , either by secretion or by chemical changes induced in the blood .
Fresh serum after filtration through Berkefeld filters , and blood or serum which had been kept for days in a sterile condition till the hsematozoa had died , have had no specific toxic effects , even when large quantities have been injected into dogs , rats , or rabbits .
Blood in which the hsematozoa have been killed by exposure to 50 ' C. has had no more effect .
The extracts of organs obtained from diseased animals have also shown no poisonous properties .
The whole available blood of highly diseased rabbits has been injected immediately after removal into healthy rabbits , without producing immediate symptoms of acute intoxication .
The bile of diseased animals does not appear to be more toxic than that of healthy animals .
A cat , into the peritoneal cavity of which a collodion sac full of fresh infected blood had been inserted , showed no signs of illness .
It was fully susceptible on subsequent inoculation .
Dogs , when injected with large quantities of filtered serum from an infected dog , showed no symptoms of a profound toxaemia .
Our experiments do not point to the presence of any intense specific toxin or poison in the blood .
VIII .
Immunisation and Cure .
The endeavours to produce immunity , or to cure the disease after its establishment , are shortly summed up as follows:\#151 ; On Nagana , or Tsetse Fly Disease .
1 .
Animals which have been repeatedly injected with blood or serum of nagana animals , such blood or serum having been previously freed from living hsematozoa , either by filtration , heat or by allowing it to stand for a week or longer , have not shown the slightest degree of an acquired immunity .
Rats , rabbits , and dogs have been tested in this manner , but none of these animals have shown any diminution in susceptibility .
2 .
Animals repeatedly injected with extracts of the organs of diseased animals have acquired no resistance .
3 .
The blood of almost full-term foetuses , prematurely born of highly diseased rabbits , has been tried , but without the slightest success in prevention or cure .
4 .
The guinea-pig being a comparatively resistant animal , its serum has been used , but it also has no immunising action .
5 .
Repeated inoculations of bile of diseased animals have been without preventive or curative effects , although in vitro bile , which is always free from hsematozoa , rapidly destroys the hsematozoa .
Infective blood mixed with sufficient bile becomes non-infective , but confers no immunity .
6 .
Previous inoculations with the hsematozoon of the ordinary rat ( T. sanguinis ) have also been valueless .
7 .
Sewer rats and white rats which have been repeatedly , but unsuccessfully , inoculated with the ordinary rat-hsematozoon ( T. ) , and have been proved to be refractory to further inoculations with this hsematozoon , have all contracted nagana when subsequently inoculated , and have died in the same time as control animals treated with an equal dose of infective blood .
8 .
The young born of infected mothers ( dog , guinea-pigs ) , are no more resistant than those born of normal animals .
9 .
As already stated , by constant transmission through different species , the nagana hsematozoon has shown no definite loss or gain in the .
intensity of virulence .
10 .
Of immunising sera the diphtheria antitoxin and antistreptococcus serum have been used , but , as we expected , without the slightest effect : they neither protect nor cure .
11 .
Dieting.\#151 ; Rats have been fed , on the one hand , exclusively with meat , and on the other , with green vegetables ; in neither case has any increased resistance or prolongation of life resulted from this alteration in diet .
12 .
Excision of the lymphatic glands immediately after inoculation or after they have begun to show enlargement has been of no avail .
13 .
Feeding with hsematozoa also conveys no immunity .
114 Messrs. Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford .
IX .
Allied Hmnatozoa .
1 .
Trypanosoma Sanguinis .
As already mentioned , in sewer rats ( Mas a trypanosoma may be found in a -certain percentage of individuals .
This hsematozoon is distinct from that of nagana morphologically^ and also as regards its pathogenic effects .
Thus ( 1 ) the T. sanguinis has not been communicated to the dog , cat , rabbit , or mouse , even when large quantities of blood were used for inoculation .
( 2 ) In some guinea-pigs it has been found in very small numbers in the blood for two or three consecutive days , usually from about the fifth day after injection ; but there has been no persistence .
( 3 ) In white rats many unsuccessful inoculations have been made with the T. sanguinis , even with considerable doses , and it appears that the minimal infective dose is larger than with the nagana Trypanosoma .
( 4 ) White rats may lose the hsematozoon after they have been proved to have bfeen successfully inoculated with the T. sanguinis .
( 5 ) Some of those which had had , and then lost , the parasite proved refractory on re-inoculation .
Black and white ( piebald ) rats have never been successfully inoculated in our experience .
( 6 ) No rat has been successfully inoculated with the T. , except at the first attempt .
( 7 ) We have not been able to recognise any illness after successful inoculations with T. sanguinis .
Any pathogenic effect it may have must be slight .
Infected rats remained alive for months ; we have not observed any instance where death was to be ascribed to the hsematozoon .
R. Koch* examined rats in Dar-es-salam , and also recognised differences between the hsematozoon of the local rats and the Trypanosoma of the Tsetse disease .
Whether the Trypanosoma occurring in the African rats examined by him is identical with that occurring in our English rats we cannot decide , although from the brief description given by Koch they certainly closely resemble each other .
Nor did Koch succeed in infecting animals other than rats with the African rat Trypanosoma .
He therefore showed that the parasites which occur in the blood of rats ( in Dar-es-salam ) do not stand in any relation whatever to the Tsetse disease of horses and cattle .
In this connexion the observations of Bruce are of great value , because they prove that in big game the Tsetse parasite certainly does occur without apparently causing acute , fatal , or even obvious disease , in the same manner , this parasite maj sojourn in the body of the guinea-pig for weeks and months without interfering with the health and development of the animal for a long time Eurthermore , Bruce ( m an unpublished lepoit ) has made similar observations on the South African goat and sheep , he show s that in these animals the disease runs an extremely protracted course , and lasts for months .
* ' Reiseberickte , ' 1898 , pp. 70 and 71 .
On Nag ana , or Tsetse Fly Disease .
2 .
Trypanosoma of Surra ( Trypanosoma Evansi ) .
Koch announces that the disease known as Surra in India and the Tsetse disease of Africa are produced by the same parasite .
His reasons for this assumption are apparently not based on extensive personal comparative observation.* Lingard , working in areas naturally infected with surra , has not clearly distinguished between the Trypanosoma of surra and that occurring in rats in India .
His account of surra as it occurs in rabbits , and guinea-pigs , and rats is suggestive of this disease being closely similar to nagana , but it is impossible for us to pretend to give any final decision in the matter .
To illustrate the confusion in Which Lingard has placed the matter , it may be pointed out that he writes that cows , horses , monkeys , and field rats are susceptible to inoculation with the ordinary Indian rat hsematozoon , but that rabbits , guinea-pigs , dogs , cats , and donkeys are insusceptible , but he adds that the latter animals are susceptible after this rat hsematozoon has been passed through the horse .
He also asserts that surra can be produced in horses by feeding on the excrement of rats .
These observations are calculated to create a certain amount of suspicion , particularly when it is remembered that Vandyke Carter failed to infect horses with the Indian rat Trypanosoma , f For the present therefore the question must be left open till an opportunity arises of studying the various parasites at the same time side by side , both in their morphology and pathogeny .
3 .
Trypanosoma of \#163 ; Rouget describes Trypanosoma disease in Algeria , which apparently is identical with the disease described by Bruce .
Judging from the drawings and descriptions , his parasite agrees with that of nagana .
He will not commit himself as to the identity of his parasite with that of surra .
White rats and mice , rabbits , and dogs exhibited a considerable susceptibility , while guinea-pigs , he says , were refractory ( possibly because he did not recognise the chronicitypf the disease ) .
Sewer rats Were not always susceptible , while some showed a relative immunity .
It seems , however , that he did not re-inoculate them so as to test their immunity again .
His description of the symptoms and anatomical appearances in mice , rats , rabbits , and dogs agrees almost exactly with our own observations .
He claims to have succeeded in immunising a number of mice by injecting them with the serum of an infected rabbit previous to inoculating the Trypanosoma ; six mice survived altogether , S * ' Reiseberiehte- , ' p. 66 .
+ ' Scientific Memoirs of Med. Officers of the Army of India , ' 1887 , Part III , p. 66 .
$ ' Annals de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' 1896 , vol. 10 , p.,716 .
S It does not appear whether they were again tested .
VOL. LXIV .
K 116 Messrs. Kanthack , Durham , and Blandford .
while others lived for 17\#151 ; 23 days .
As a curative agent this serum was useless ; guinea-pigs serum also had no preventive action .
X. Biology of the Nag ana Hcematozoon .
So far our knowledge of the nagana parasite , as that of other Trypanosomas , is very incomplete .
Rouget* has failed to find forms corresponding to those described by Danilevsky in birds and by Shala-shnikov in rats , and Lewis and others have been equally unsuccessful , while it is difficult to follow Lingard in his description of young forms .
We have not succeeded in tracing a life history , and we are still in search of developmental forms , a task which at present occupies our special attention .
1 .
Most commonly in blood , \amp ; e. , drawn from infected animals the forms described by Bruce are found .
They are generally in active movement , and can sometimes be observed in locomotion with their flagellated end forwards , as Lewis described in the case of other hsema-tozoa ; in many cases they do not change their position by free swimming , but tend to fix themselves by one or other end to the coverslip or to corpuscles or cells in the specimen ; they then exhibit more or less rapid oscillations , and may change their position by apparently drawing or pushing themselves in one direction or the other .
Meanwhile the vibratile membrane waves rapidly and the protoplasmic body alters in shape , becoming thicker and shorter or thinner and longer ; in the case of the English rat hsematozoon free swimming is the rule ; changes in the shape of the body like those of the nagana organism are not observed .
2 .
The nagana parasites vary considerably both in size and form ; they may be long and pointed or blunt-ended and somewhat stouter ; some individuals are short and thick with a short flagellum , their protoplasm being crowded with rounded granules .
Still larger forms possessing more than one vibratile membrane are sometimes , though rarely , met with .
3 .
Especially in specimens taken from lymphatic glands , but also in specimens obtained from the blood , \amp ; c. , there is a clear vacuole at the thick end ; this does not become stained with staining reagents ) it varies much in size in the different individuals , but we have watched in vain for evidence that it is of a contractile nature .
4 .
By means of hsemalum or hematoxylin a nuclear body can be demonstrated in the middle of the parasite ; it is usually oval , but maj be more saddle-shaped .
The protoplasm also contains a number of granules which stain with basophil reaction ( methylene-blue , thionin , \amp ; c. ) ; these are somewhat variable in number , being fewer in specimens in which the protoplasm is more refractive , e.g. , from lymphatic gland .
# hoc .
citpp .
722 and 723 .
On Nagana , or Tsetse Fly Disease .
These granules are distributed irregularly throughout the body of the parasite ; they do not occur in the membrane or the flagellum .
The chromatin spot situated close to the non-flagellated end in the T. sanguinis is not defined in the Nagana Trypanosoma .
The T. sanguinis also does not stain at all readily even by basic aniline dyes ( dahlia , fuchsin , \amp ; c. ) , whilst that of Tsetse disease is more readily coloured by these reagents .
5 .
Examples joined by the poles opposite the flagellum are common at times , but although they suggest perhaps conjugation , we hafb no evidence that this process does really occur .
After prolonged observation no further changes have been noticed in these joined individuals .
In freshly drawn blood , or in the lymph of lymphatic glands , or in pleural and peritoneal fluid , when the haematozoa are common , tangles made up of numerous haematozoa have been observed ; this has been already described by Lewis .
The haematozoa often converge with their non-flagellated ends towards one common point .
In lymphatic glands , before the haematozoa are found in the blood , such tangles may be present in great numbers .
6 .
Forms consisting apparently of two individuals joined side by side by their bodies , the flagella being free , have been observed on rare occasions ; from prolonged observation in the living state we have no reason to suppose that these are undergoing longitudinal fission .
Especially in kept blood , \amp ; c. , many of the haematozoa may present a rhomboid outline whilst still motile .
In drawn blood or serous fluids the haematozoa eventually become motionless ; this may occur rapidly , for instance in twenty minutes , but generally some motile specimens can be found after two to three days\#151 ; sometimes , indeed , after as long as five or six .
When they are abundant , the tangles above noted are formed .
Then the bodies of the organisms become rounded , the nuclear bodies becoming more distinct and readily stainable ( haematoxylin or basic aniline dyes ) .
At the same time the vibratile membrane or fin and the flagellum separate , forming a rather rigid filament .
Eventually ( generally after three to four days ) masses of spherules alone remain ; these apparently correspond to the nuclear bodies .
In numerous experiments these structures have uniformly proved to be non-infective , and it must therefore be inferred that if they are not simply degeneration products , they require other conditions for their further development than those that are found in warmblooded animals .
All individuals , however , do not pass through these changes ; some , or even all , may simply become non-motile , stiff , and pale , at the same time retaining their form .
In numerous attempts at cultivation in normal blood , similar phenomena are observed without any evidence of multiplication .
Within a corpse , the blood and organs become non-infective in about twenty-four hours , the changes in the haematozoa being similar to those just described .
On Nagana , or Tsetse Fly Disease .
Exposure for several hours in an atmosphere of hydrogen or C02 has no appreciable effect on the motility of hsematozoa in blood-free serous fluids .
The hsematozoa are also fully active in hosts killed by ether , chloroform , or coal-gas .
7 .
Oval forms , smaller than the ordinary hsematozoa , with ( or without ) a short flagellum , and often with a " beak " at the opposite pole , have been observed in the Organs , but rarely in circulating blood .
8 .
Small rounded or ovoid bodies , about 1\#151 ; 2/ * in diameter , hyaline , sometimes with a refringent chromatin spot or bipolar spots , or irregular ( 1 amoeba-like ) bodies , also sometimes with a chromatin spot and of the same size or rather larger , hate been observed , especially in the lymphatic glands and bone-marrQW , or spleen .
It is possible that these are early stages in the developme'nt of the hsematozoon .
]No forms have been seen at any time within the red blood corpuscles .
9 .
Neither sporocystic nor larger distinctly amoeboid forms have been observed .
As our observations on the developiflent of the parasites are still in an incomplete condition , this short statement must suffice , and a more detailed description must be left for a future occasion , when we submit a full report upon our work .

