Relations between Marine Animal and Vegetable Life .
155 was , however , at first disappointed in failing to obtain the results iticipated .
But this failure , I subsequently found , was due to the -neral opacity of the wood which was freshly cut , and which , iough apparently dry , contained large quantities of sap m the terior .
I then carefully dried some of the specimens , when the resses present became quite apparent by numerous cracks starting l radial directions .
The results obtained with these dried specimens ere quite satisfactory .
^ , I now tried to devise some experiments strictly analogous to the ptical experiments with chilled glass .
For this purpose I cast a ylinder of paraffin wax in a metallic mould surrounded by a freezing iixture .
Owing to the great contraction produced by solidification , hollow depression was formed in the centre , and this produced a listortion of symmetry .
It would , therefore , be better to build up a ylinder by successive dippings , the deposited molten layer contract-ng on the solid core .
I obtained , however , extremely good results with a cylinder of cast ebonite , in which the stresses present are ixactly similar to those in a circular piece of unannealed glass .
The next series of experiments were undertaken with mineral ipecimens .
I here acknowledge with thanks , the kind help I received crom Mr. Hayden , B.A. , and Mr. Blithe , of the Geological Depar -ment , in obtaining suitable specimens for my experiments .
no ?
ery interesting specimen obtained from Egypt was formed by ringed concretion of flint round a central nodule .
This specimen exhibited the cross with great distinctness .
I also obtained faiily satisfactory results with stalactite .
The concretion of calcium carbonate formed inside a pipe by deposits from temporarily hard water flowing through it , would also be found to exhibit this phenomenon .
" The Relations between Marine Animal and Vegetable Life .
" By 11 .
M. Vernon , M.A. , M.B. Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received December 8,1897 , Read January 24 , 1898 .
( From the Zoological Station , Naples .
) ( Abstract.)* The object of this research was to determine how the nitrogenous matter excreted by marine animals into the water is removed , and what parts the various forms of vegetable life play in the process .
Thus this subject is of interest from its practical bearing on questions relating to the efficient maintenance of marine aquaria , as well * The full paper will be published in the ' Mittheilungen aus der Zoologisclien Station zu Neapel .
' Mr. H. M. Vernon .
The Relations between as from the theoretical standpoint of the changes taking place ui natural conditions in the open sea .
The method of investigation was a triple one , viz. , chemical , physio logical , and bacteriological .
The chemical procedure consisted ii carefully determining the free and albuminoid ammonia present h the various specimens of water by means of the well-known method o : Wanklyn , Chapman and Smith .
In certain cases also the nitrites were determined by the metaphenylenediamine reaction .
The watei was tested physiologically by allowing the fertilised ova of the sea-urchin , Strongylocentrotus lividus , to develop in it , and by determining the change produced in the size of the larvae after eight days ' growth under various conditions .
The larvae were in each cm measured under the microscope in groups of fifty .
In addition also the proportion of ova arriving at the eight days ' larval stage was always determined .
The bacterial quality of the water was tested by ''wu ?
g ^6 number of coloDies obtained by gelatin plate culture , f With reference to the purifying effects of vegetable life on the water , it was found that green weeds such as Viva , will , when placed in Aquarium tank water , rapidly remove the free ammonia present , though they slowly increase the albuminoid ammonia .
Thus in one case 62 per cent , of the free ammonia was removed after two days , and 95 per cent , after ten days , whilst the albuminoid ammonia was increased by respectively 22 per cent , and 27 per cent. If the water be in addition exposed to sunlight , the free ammonia is removed less Qan bef1 're ' but the aibuminoid ammonia increased more increased .6a .UrC , ^ *arV8e gr'wn in water thus purified are , as a rule , allowed''lln , S1Ze'this grease being in one case 14'4 per cent. Larv\#174 ; .
found tn'v\gt ; e^f 111 lrec* contact with the alga were , as a rule , water m\#171 ; dbef1+1f y/ 1J !
minisbed in size ' although analyses of the ZmL ^ d v* 'f tte exPeriments showed that the albuminoid ammonia harf hee^ apPreciab1^ diminished , as well as the free the^hn .
7 se.em ' before , that the alga is able to absorb the albummo^ ammonia when it is present in considerable amount !
I I !
S w fertilised ova developing to the full larval stag !
been ad^ dT^if greatei\gt ; ln these experiments than when no alga had : tCwh W urt6r ' h6nCe the effect of the weed would seem on i the whole to have been a favourable one .
a consiXer^l^ln^reas^i^ thT5 fdbuD 7 ?
^ in water , cause with small 6 m \#174 ; .lz.e ' nt when allowed to develop in direct contact TuatiHe fqUar T 'f the W6ed ' ma* be increased in size .
Small number* f " re aU Sreen weeds combined cause an increased increase in the sta of thTw.1"\#153 ; 1 S'"ge ' a"d alS0 Ca"Se " ' Marine Animal and Vegetable 157 On filtration of water through sand which had been taken from ie of the tanks in the Aquarium , it was found that 94 per cent , of the ee , and 18 per cent , of the albuminoid , ammonia had been removed , his great purification was due to the thin layer of alga ) and diatoms ith which the grains of sand were covered , for on heating some of iis sand to 70 ' C. , and subsequently washing it to remove the vege-ible debris , the ammonia in the water filtered through it was con-tderably increased in amount .
Also on filtering water continuously or some weeks through a layer of sand 16 cm .
deep , which contained mall quantities of vegetable matter , a half the free and an eighth f the albuminoid ammonia were at first removed .
After a week , lowever , 58 per cent , of the fred and 21 per cent , of the albuminoid .mmonia were absorbed , and after a fortnight respectively 96 per cent , md 51 per cent. This marked increase of purification was due to the leposition in the sand of the small quantities of alga ?
and diatoms in suspension in the water , and to their subsequent multiplication .
This vegetable filter was found to act most eflhciently with the water flowing through at its maximum rate .
This , in the present experiment , was at 1 litre in three minutes through a superficial irea of sand of 177 sq .
cm .
When , by clamping the exit tube , the rate of flow was diminished to a litre in fifty minutes or more , there was no longer any purification , but the amount of free ammonia in the water was increased some threefold , whilst the albuminoid ammonia remained practically unaltered .
Also , on discontinuing the current of water through the filter for twenty-four hours and then renewing it , its purifying efficiency was greatly diminished in respect of the albuminoid ammonia , only 9 per cent , of this being now absorbed .
In the course of a few days , however , the purifying power began to increase again .
The filter was then covered up so as to totally exclude the light , and thereby kill off the chlorophyll-containing organisms .
About 90 per cent , of the free ammonia was still absorbed , but never more than 20 per cent , of the albuminoid ammonia , even after twenty-five days more of continuous filtration .
This purification must have been due to bacterial agency .
Such a " bacterial " sand filter reacts to changes in the rate of flow of the water quite differently to the chlorophyll-containing oue .
Thus the purification remained practically as great on diminishing the rate of flow to 1 litre in two hours fifty minutes , and the water flowing through immediately after the current had been entirely stopped for ten hours had 93 per cent , of its free ammonia removed .
In another experiment , sand which at first contained no vegetable matter at all was found to have practically no purifying power .
On allowing a current of water to flow through it continuously , however , this gradually developed and increased in amount as in the above experiment .
158 Mr. H. M. Vernon .
between Larvse grown in water purified by this filtration through sand a increased in size some 4 2 per cent. , whilst as a rule the percentas of ova reaching the full larval stage is considerably increased .
On keeping sea water in diffuse light the free ammonia soon begin to disappear , owing to the multiplication of the small quantities t algae and diatoms in suspension in the water .
Thus , in one instanct after ten days 40 per cent , of the free ammonia had disappeared an after twenty-five days 92 per cent. ; the albuminoid ammonia had on the other hand , increased by respectively 28 and 101 per cent Larvae grown in water thus purified were on an average increased ii size by 13-4 per cent. On keeping water in direct sunlight for some days , the free ammonia is somewhat diminished , and the albuminoid ammonia considerably increased , probably owing to the formation of vegetable growth .
Larvae grown in water which had been exposed four or more days to the sun and air in a covered glass Jar were on an average unaffected in size , though only 11 per oent .
of the fertilised ova employed reached the larval stage .
On the other hand , with water exposed four or five days to the son in a flask , whereby very little surface was open to the air , nearly the normal number ( 66-6 per cent. ) of ova developed to larvae , and these larvte were no less than 16 7 per cent , larger than the normal .
.Bacteriological examination failed to establish any constant differences in the number of germs in these two different kinds of water , but they confirmed the germicidal action of sunlight on the water .
It was found , however , that water in which most of the germs had been killed y several days exposure to sunlight , contained very many more germs^ than were originally present , if it were subsequently kept m diffuse light .
Thus in the subjoined experiment , the water was exposed ten and a half days to direct sunlight , the number of colonies developing after forty-eight hours ' incubation eing re uced to 70 per c.c. After two days ' exposure to diffuse ^ ' o^ever\gt ; the number had enormously increased .
It will be noticed that the number also increased between the first and fourth rj* eX^\gt ; 'SUre* This was owing to the fact that there was very little direct sunlight at the time .
Original water .
/ 3,500 A4 !
, ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 2,700 Alter j hour 2 260 " 3 ^h ours ... ... ... ... ... 1,360 \#187 ; * fa " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1,450 " 3| days ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
5,500 " \gt ; * 150 \#187 ; 12\#163 ; \#187 ; 320,000 Marine Animal and Vegetable 150 .In keeping Aquarium water in darkness for three or more weeks , undergoes great purification .
Thus in one case after twenty-five is there remained only 2 per cent , of the free and 48 per cent , of ) albuminoid ammonia originally present .
There was no further rification on keeping an additional twenty-nine days .
This purified , is due to bacterial action , as it is greatly delayed if the water previously heated to 100 ' , and is stopped by adding corrosive blimate to the water .
The amounts of free and albuminoid amonia present after this purification are in some cases no greater an those found in pure open sea water .
The physiological purity is )t so great , however , as larvae grown in open sea water are increased size by 16'0 per cent. , and those grown in water kept in darkness y , on an average , 7'5 per cent. Also with this latter water the ercentage of ova reaching the full larval stage is slightly smaller rnn the normal .
Water kept in darkness contains considerably \#166 ; were germs than normal water , and the longer the water is kept the nailer is the number .
A very considerable purification of the Aquarium water is effected by the layer of bacterial slime coating the inside of the pipes which con-uct the water from the reservoir 's to the rooms .
Thus water drawn ff at the rate of a litre in ten seconds contained 26 per cent , less ree , and 25 per cent , less albuminoid , ammonia than the reservoir \#171 ; Tater , and that drawn off at a litre in two hours and forty minutes espectively 82 per cent , and 16 per cent. less .
Larvae grown in such vater were , moreover , some 7'8 per cent , larger than the normal .
On filtering water through asbestos , the albuminoid ammonia is iomewhat increased , but larvae grown in the filtered water are some L2'6 per cent , larger than the normal .
Larvae grown in water previously heated t.0 50 ' , 76 ' , or 100 ' are ncreased in size by some 6'2 per cent. , and the proportion of ova " caching the larval stage is also increased .
This is probably due to the removal of bacteria and other forms of life from the water , though after the first day or two the water contains more bacteria than unheated water .
Ordinary tank water gave about 1500 colonies per c.c. after twenty-four hours ' incubation at 25 ' , and about 11000 after forty-eight hours .
Filtration through sand at first diminished the numoer of germs , but when this became impregnated with vegetable growth they were largely increased .
Through sand kept in darkness , very slow filtration increases the number of germs , but a fairly fast one diminishes them .
The addition of algae to the -water increases the number of germs .
Larvae grown in water previously fouled by fish , crabs , molluscs , and Holothurians are increased in size on an average by 4'1 per cent. , but with water fouled by sea-anemones and medusae are slightly 160 Relations between Marine Animal and Vegetable Rife 1 diminished in size .
The increase in size appears to depend rnnAi on the amount of contamination of the water .
Fish and crabs ap\#163 ; | to effect about ten times as much contamination as molluscs* .
Holothurians .
On the other hand , if the water be previously fouled by the let urchins Stronglyocentrotus , Sphcerechinus , and , a decrees amounting on an average to 6'9 per cent , is effected ; but with Arbaciaand DorocicLar'is there is on an average an increase of 3 pp cent. There is indeed considerable evidence to show* that an organist exerts a special adverse influence on the members of its own species The fouling products do not seem to be of the nature of ptomaines as larvae grown in water fouled by dead sea-urchins were in cases increased in size , though on an .
average they were slighth diminished .
These dead sea-urchins were found to effect about ter times as much contamination of the water as did the various living animals examined .
In connection with these results , reference maj be made to some previous experiments* in which it was found that the addition of small quantities of uric acid and urea to the water caused an increase in the size of the larvae , this increase amounting in one instance to 12'2 per cent. Also it was found that the addition of considerable quantities of C02 to the water excited a positive rather than a negative effect on the size of the larvse .
Larvae grown in water in which another batch of larvae had already developed were on an average diminished by 6'9 per cent. The evidence as to whether a plutens reacts more to its own products of metabolism than to those of other species of plutei was too variable to afford a definite conclusion either way .
With water fouled animals about the same , and with that fouled by dead Echinoids it is greater than the normal .
Ammonium chloride exerts a very fatal action on larval growth , thus with water containing 1 part in 25,400 of the salt , the larv\#174 ; were diminished 190 per cent , in size , and only 28 per cent , of the ova reac ed the larval stage .
Potassium nitrite , if kept below about 0-3 gram per litre , and potassium nitrate , if kept below 1 gram , have practically no action .
Larvae grown in sea water which had been aerated by prolonged agitation were on an average increased by 0-65 per cent. The bac- na .
quality of the water seemed practically unaffected by the aeration .
keeping water several weeks in darkness the nitrites origin-a y present are much diminished , or disappear altogether .
After * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' B ( 1895 ) , p. 595 .
Report of the Kew Observatory Committee .
161 iltration through sand impregnated with vegetable growth , and after dding alg\#174 ; to the water , the nitrites are increased .
The growth of arvse^in a water is as a rule accompanied by an increase of nitrites , hough the nitrification does not seem to be increased on the addition , f either ammonium salts or nitrates to the water , or on fouling the rater by animal excretions .
The arm-lengths of the larvae are not specially affected by vege-able growth , though by water filtered through sand impregnated with algae and diatoms they are somewhat diminished .
They are eonsidei-ably increased on development of the larvae in water purified by being kept in darkness , and in aerated water .
They are greatly diminished in water previously heated to 100 ' , but not in that heated to from 50 ' to 77 ' .
In water exposed to sunlight they are also diminished .
They are increased in water fouled by most animals and by dead Echinoids , but in that fouled by living Echinoids are diminished .
During a period of seven months the specific gravity of the Aquarium water was found to vai-y from T028o9 to 1 0-964 at 15-56 ' C. The specific gravity was on an average about^ 000040 greater than that of the open sea water .
The free ammonia varied from 0T85 to 0'350 milligram per litre , and the albuminoid from 0-111 to 0182 milligram .
Report of the Kew Observatory Committee for the 1 ear ending December 31 , 1897 .
The operations of The Kew Observatory , in the Old Deci Pa-l ?
Richmond , Surrey , are controlled by the Kew Observatory Committee , which is constituted as follows :\#151 ; Mr. F. Galton , Chairman .
Prof. A. W.Rucker .
Captain W. de W. Abney , C.B. , R.E. Prof. W.G. Adams .
Captain E. W. Creak , R.N. Prof. G. C. Foster .
Prof. J. Perry .
The Earl of Rosse , K.P. Mr. R. H. Scott .
Mr. W. FT .
Shaw .
Lieut.-General Sir R. Stracliey , G.C.S.I. Rear Admiral Sir W. J- E. Wharton , K.C.B. VOL. IAl IT .
N

