I. " Observations on several Mineral Substances , including their Analysis , &amp;c. " By Dr. T. L. PHIPSON , F.C.S. Communicated by Dr. STENHOUSE .
Received November 3 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author gives an account of a series of mineral substances more or less recently discovered , and several of which have been lately imported into England to be utilized in various arts and manufactures .
Fourteen of these substances have been submitted to careful analysis by the author , and their chemical composition and properties determined .
The minerals described include1 .
Sonibrerite , a phosphate of alumina and lime from the Antilles .
2 .
A fossil phosphate from the Isle of Wight , a most perfect description of wood fossilized by apatite and fluorine .
3 .
A phosphate from the West Indies , derived from the decomposition of guano .
4 .
Bicarbonate of ammonia from the Chinca Isles , off the coast of Peru , for specimens of which the author is indebted to Capt. Marcus Lowther , R.N. , and which appears never to have been completely analysed before .
5 .
Tinkalzite , a hydrous borate of lime and soda from Peru , already utilized in the arts as a substitute for borax .
6 .
Stibiconise , from Borneo , a hydrated antimonious acid , which has been lately imported into England in notable quantities .
7 .
A modern limestone rock , forming on the coast of Flanders .
8 .
The Limon de la Hesboye , a loam which covers a large portion of Belgium and part of France , and which is extremely remarkable for its fertility : although it contains upwards of 90 per cent. of sand , its analysis shows that it possesses all the chemical ingredients necessary to form a fertile soil .
9 .
Vitriolite , or natural sulphate of iron , recently discovered in Turkey , and which has been analysed by M. Pisani and the author ; it is remarkable from the fact that part of the iron is replaced by copper , without changing the crystalline form or the percentage of water .
10 .
An oolitic hematite from Namur ( Belgium ) , remarkable for its peculiar structure , which may have been caused by the incrustation of insects ' eggs ( Notonecta ) , as we see is the case with the oolitic limestone of the Mexican lakes .
11 .
The argentiferous quartz or gossan of Cornwall , in which the author finds that the silver is contained as Fahlerz ( grey copper ) : when the grey copper is freely disseminated through the rock , the percentage of silver ( metallic ) averages about 0'2 per cent. ; but in the ordinary yellow and brown gossan , where the grey copper is not visible , the silver averages about 0'04 per cent. , or 14oz .
to the ton .
12 .
The iserine sands of Australia and Bourbon Isle .
13 .
A bituminous conglomerate from Australia , remarkable as containing nearly 40 per cent. of petroleum and bitumen , with carbonate of lime , sand , and mica , &amp;c. ; it exudes from a tertiary limestone on the river Murray .
14 .
The arseniferous sulphur of Naples , which , according to the author 's analysis , contains , besides 11'162 per cent. of arsenic , about 0*264 of selenium , which can be easily extracted from it in a pure state .
Of each of these substances the author gives in the present paper a detailed description and a complete analysis , believing that such researches are not devoid of utility .
As most of the substances alluded to are applicable in some way or other to the wants of man , the author is continuing these investigations as opportunity offers , by submitting to careful analysis the different new or little-known minerals which happen to come under his notice .

