]\gt ; Mr. C. Godfrey .
On the Application of No iodine or bromine could be detected in the small quantity of ater available for examination .
Spectroscopic examination revealed the presence of a trace of bal'ium .
The quantity present would have been quite unweighable , and although estimated with the calcium could n.ot have vitiated the results .
The results givsn mder the heading are regarded as those which most nearly represent the true condition of the lake , and consequently no attempt has been made to strike an average between the two series of results .
The A results are given in extenso in order to demonstrate the degree of reliability of the results , a matter which be of importance in the future , when , after an interval of some years , another investigation of the water of Lake Urmi is made .
" " On the Application of Fourier 's Double Integrals to Optical Problems By CHARLES GODFREY , B.A. , Scholar of Trinity College , Isaac Newton Student in the University of Camridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. THOMSON , F.R.S. eceived June 12 , \mdash ; Read June 15 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The propagation of plane planc-polarised light in the direction of is governed by the equation where is the velocity of light .
The most simple solution of this equation is\mdash ; This may be interpreted as a train of waves of amplitude period , and phase , travelling with velocity .
This train of waves is without beginning or end .
Most of the results of physical optics have direct application to a disturbance of the above form .
No radiation is found in nature which has the properties of the above function .
The fact alone that all natural radiations have beginning and end would suffice to render ( 1 ) an inadequate representation .
It is required to solve the problem how to represent any natural radiation faithfully without losing the conveniences connected with the form ( 1 ) .
The problem recalls the familiar process of harmonic analysis .
This process is applicable only to periodic functions , whereas such a motion of the aether as constitutes white light is non-periodic .
In this connection it has been pointed out by Gouy Fourier 's Double Integrals to Problems .
that Fourier 's theorem of double integrals enables us to express a wide class of functions in terms of circular funotions .
In faot , subject to certain limitations , where . .
It is proved in the course of the present paper that this process is always legitimaGe when is such a function of time as can occur a physical problem .
The above theorem reduces to the limit of a sum of simple circular function of time , the element being .
If we write , a simple vibration of amplitude Rdu , period and phase is suggested .
To connect this analysis with the physical analysis of light into a continuous spectrum is tsmpting .
The present essay is an attempt to prove that , in certain very general cases , such a connection exists .
The proof depends upon the two principles ( i ) that we can have no cognisance of of time , but can observe only the contents of small intervals of time ( ii ) that , in spectrum analysis , we do not deal with definite wave-lengths , but rather with small ranges of wave-length .
The fruitfulness of this calculus is illustrated by several applications .
The radiation of an incandescent gas is discussed .
The trains of aves emitted by molecules are continually being terminated by collisions .
It is held that , in dealing with the limiting widths of spectrum lines , this effect must be included in the same investigation with the Doppler effect first pointed out by Lippich and Lord Rayleigh .
Other problems shown to be within the grasp of this method are : the connection between Rontgen rays as explained by Professor Thomson , and ordinary light ; and the effect of radiative damping of the molecular vibrations in widening the lines of the spectrum .
All these investigations are based upon a theorem for dealing with a radiation composed of a vast aggregate of similar pulses distributed at random .
The theorem is due to Lord Rayleigh .
It is usual to examine the theory of dispersion by considering the action of a simple periodic force upon a simple vibrator .
Since no light is simply periodic , it is necessary to extend the examination .
This is done below .
We have also inquired whether fluorescence can be due to natural vibrations of the molecules aroused by the nonperiodic quality of light .
It is shown that so long as the equation of motion is linear , no such explanation is possible .

