449 Note on the Spectrum of I. " Note on the Spectrum of Silicium .
" By Sir J. Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.RS .
II .
" Preliminary Table of Wave-lengths of Enhanced Lines .
" By Sir J. Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.RS .
III .
" The Colour-Physiology of Hippolyte varians " By F. W. Keeble , and F. W. Gamble .
Communicated by Professor S. J. Hickson , F.R.S. IY .
" The Medusae of Millepora " By Professor S. J. Hickson , F.R.S. .
'\#163 ; 1 ?
\#166 ; .
" Note on the Spectrum of Silicium .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.RS .
Received November 9\#151 ; Read November 23 , 1899 .
In 1895 , during the course of an investigation of the spectra of gases distilled from the mineral .
Eliasite , a double line at AA.4128'3 and 4131*4 was found in one of the photographs , which could not at the time be traced to any terrestrial substance .
It was thought that it might belong to some new gas , especially as there was a well-marked double in the corresponding region of a , Cygni .
Some time later , shortly after the discovery by Professor Pickering of a new series of probable hydrogen lines in the spectrum of ( Puppis , an attempt was made to produce this series of lines in the laboratory , and the spectrum of hydrogen was examined under different electrical conditions .
During this research it was found that with the use of the spark in vacuum tubes of very narrow bore , with large jars in circuit , the same double line noted in the eliasite photograph made its appearance , and as in these experiments the glass on the inside of the capillary of the vacuum tube had become partially fused , silicium suggested itself as being the origin of this so-called " unknown " double .
That this was correct was proved directly afterwards by photographing the spectrum of a spark over SiC\gt ; 2 in a retort , the double in question being the most prominent feature of the spectrum.* In addition to this double , a wider one at A. A. 3856*1 and 3862*7 was noticed , and as the two components also agreed very closely in position with lines in the spectrum of a Cygni , it was concluded that silicium was the true origin of the lines , t * A list of the spark lines of silicium was published by Eder and Yalenta in 1893 , and the identity of the strange double would probably have been established before by a reference to that list , had it not been for a large error in the wavelength of one of the components of the double as recorded by them .
+ The* probable explanation of the appearance of the silicium double in one of the photographs of the spectrum of the eliasite gases is that , one of the .platinum Sir J. Norman Lockyer .
Very few records of work on the silicium spectrum have been published by later spectroscopists , but Eder and Valenta* give lines agreeing in wave-length with those mentioned , as shown in the accompanying table .
A. ( Lockyer ) .
Int. A. ( Eder and Yalenta ) .
| Int. Remarks .
1 3856-1 6 3855-7 3 3862-7 4 3862-5 3 4128-1 !
3 4126 -5 4 Probably a misprint for 4128 *5 .
j 4131 -1 i 4 4131-5 4 ... V-Jl Later experiments on the spark spectrum of silicium with the aid of the large Spottiswoode coil , and on the spectra of silicium compounds in vacuum tubes , reveal other lines of that element no less interesting from a stellar point of view than those previously mentioned .
We learn from these recent observations that the lines of silicium may be divided into three sets , no two of which behave alike under varying electrical conditions .
The wave-lengths of the lines composing the different sets are:\#151 ; 3856-l-'| 3862-7 I .
4128-1 [ 4131-1J There is a line at A. 3905-8 which is associated in the spark spectrum of silicium with the lines in set A , but while these are entirely absent from the arc spectrum of silicium , 3905*8 is a strong line in the arc spectrum .
This line differs from the others , therefore , in not being enhanced in intensity in passing from the conditions of the arc to those of the spark .
So far as is known , the lines in sets B and C have not been recorded by any other observers of the silicium spectrum .
The behaviour of the three sets of lines in terrestrial spectra is shown in the following figure .
It is found , on investigating the occurrence of these silicium lines in stellar spectra , that the three sets of lines respectively attain a maximum intensity at the three different levels of stellar temperature represented by f3 , y , and ( Orionis .
poles of the " steeple " used in hat particular case had broken off close to the glass , and the latter was fused by the heat from the spark .
This is the more likely as the double line only appeared on ode edge of the spectrum .
* ' Denkschr .
Kais .
Akad .
Wissensch .
, Wien .
, ' vol. 60 , 1893 .
4552-8'i 4089-14568-0 \gt ; C. 4116-4 J 4575-3J A T0teon the Spectrum of Silicium .
451 \amp ; C A B mm izzzn i L 1 1 1 .
SiP4 vacuum tube ( capillary ) .
2 .
Si02 spark with Spottiswoode coil .
3 .
Vacuum tube ( bulb ) Si02 spark with small coil .
The accompanying figure shows the behaviour of the different sets A , B , and C in the spectra of ft , y , \#163 ; Orionis .
A B C i. ?
2 .
* 1 3 .
1 1 .
\#163 ; Orionis .
2 .
7 Orionis .
3 .
Orionis .
We find that set A is most prominent in the spectrum of Orionis , that set C predominates in the spectrum of y Orionis , and that set B is by far the strongest in that of \#163 ; Orionis .
That the stars named represent three different grades of temperature , \#163 ; Orionis being the hottest , and ft Orionis the coolest , has been previously deduced by the discussion of other lines in their spectra .
This result was embodied in a paper " On the Order of Appearance of Chemical Substances at different Stellar Temperatures , which 1 read to the Society in February of the present year .
In that paper aCrucis was given as a typical star representing a stage of temperature between those of ft Orionis and \#163 ; Orionis .
That star can be very well replaced for the purpose of the present discussion by y Orionis , the two spectra being nearly identical .
_ _* The line at X 3905*8 previously mentioned as occurring in both arc and spark spectra , is not represented in the spectra of any of these stars .
It is possibly present in the spectra of stars like the sun , as Howland records it in his " Preliminary Table of Solar Spectrum Wavelengths , " as being coincident with the well-marked Fraunhofer line at X 3905*660 .
This coincidence , however , is open to doubt ; from a comparison of the Howland grating photographs of the silicium spark 452 Sir J. Norman Lockyer .
spectrum and the solar spectrum taken at Kensington , the silieium line apparently agrees better in position with the less refrangible edge of the solar line than with the middle .
Before this point can be definitely settled , still larger dispersion will have to be employed .
In the paper mentioned , it was shown that silicium made its appearance first at the temperature represented by a TJrsse Minoris , and strengthened at the higher temperature of a Cygni and ( 3 Orionis , , afterwards weakening as we pass through the still higher temperatures-of \#163 ; Tauri and 7 Orionis , until at the \#163 ; Orionis stage it is bordering on extinction .
In the same paper the behaviour of a line at A 4089*2 was plotted , , and at the same time it was quoted as an " unknown " line .
It is interesting to note that this line is now traced to silicium , and is the strongest line in set B. It is apparently a short-lived line in stellar spectra , as it only occurs between the stages of temperature represented by 7 Orionis and \#163 ; Orionis , being one of the weakest lines in the spectrum of the former star , and one of the strongest in that of the latter .
Most of the photographs of the silicium spectrum under varying , conditions were taken by Mr. Butler .
The wave-lengths of the lines , have been reduced by Mr. Baxandall , and he is also responsible for establishing the identity of the terrestrial and the stellar lines .
My thanks are due to him also for help in the preparation of the present communication .
Preliminary Table of Wave-lengths of Enhanced Lines .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received November 9 , , \#151 ; Read November 23 , 1899 .
Introduction .
In the year 1881 I communicated a paper* to the Royal Society in which I described some experiments relating to the brightening of some lines in the spectrum of iron on passing from the arc to the spark .
It was found that in the case of iron , the two lines in the visible spectrum at A 4924*1 and A 5018*6 , on Rowland 's scale , were greatly enhanced in brightness , and were very important in solar phenomena .
The work was subsequently carried into the photographic region of the spectrum with very interesting results , since it was found that several other lines were enhanced at the highest temperature I could then obtain .
In a later paper f I described the results obtained in further photo* * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * 1881 , vol. 32 , p. 204 .
f 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * vol. 61 , p. 158 .

