1885.J " Transfer-Resistance " in Electrolytic .20^ If the assumption in question is valid , there follows the relation 1__H(l + \#187 ; sin3amp)=\#151 ; j A1 cos ^ + 2Ascos ?
^+ . . .
j , n l ix j or , in other words , the elliptic functions of the third kind , sin amp , \amp ; c.r tcan be expressed by harmonic series involving multiples of -|L .
March19 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the .
table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On 'Transfer-resistance ' in Electrolytic and Yoltaic Cells .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received March 2 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The existence of this phenomenon has been a matter of doubt ever since the year 1831 , and the question has been examined by many investigators .
In the present paper are described a series of methods by means of which its reality has been determined .
Other methods are given for measuring the amounts of such " resistance , " either collectively at the two electrodes of an electrolytic cell , or separately at each electrode .
Modes of obviating the interference of polarisation , and of securing success in the measurements , are also described .
The influence of various circumstances upon the phenomenon were investigated , viz. , strength and density of current ; total resistance ; density of current and size of electrode ; composition of the electrolyte ; strength of ditto ; combined electrolytic cells ; temperature ; and chemical corrosion .
The relations of the phenomenon to size of plate in voltaic cells , to the positive and negative plates respectively , and to strength of current in those cells , were also examined , and the results are given .
The following are the chief facts established by this research:\#151 ; That a species of electric " resistance , " distinct from that of polarisation and of ordinary conduction-resistance , varying greatly in amount in different cases , exists at the surfaces of mutual contact of metals and liquids in electrolytic and voltaic cells .
That this " resistance " 210 " Transfer-Resistance " Electrolytic Cells .
[ Mar. 19 , varies largely in amount with different metals in the same solution , and with the same metals in different solutions ; in dilute solutions of mineral acids of different strengths , or of different temperatures , and is usually small with easily corrodible metals which form quickly soluble salts , and large with those which are not corroded ; and is dis- .
guised in the case of those which by corrosion form insoluble salts .
The results of the experiments also show that the same voltaic current was " resisted " in different degrees by every different metal when employed as an anode , and when used as a cathode ; also by the same metal when used as an anode and cathode respectively ; and that the proportions of such " resistance " at an anode and cathode of the same metal , varied with every different metal in every different electrolyte ( and strength of electrolyte ) , and at every different temperature ; and that the resistance at the anode was usually smaller than that at the cathode ; in some cases , however , where a film was formed upon the anode , an apparently reverse effect occurred ; that a current from a given positive plate of a voltaic cell was differently resisted by every different metal used as a negative plate in that cell ; and that by rise of temperature " transfer-resistance " was usually and considerably reduced .
They further show that this species of " resistance " was largely reduced by increasing the strength of current ; and was thus conspicuously distinguished from ordinary conduction-resistance of the electrolyte .
In consequence of this effect , " transfer-resistance " was greatly influenced by every circumstance which altered the ordinary resistance , and thereby the strength of current .
The usual effect of diminishing the density of current alone , by enlarging both the electrodes and keeping the strength constant , was to diminish the " transfer-resistanceand of enlarging one only , was to diminish it at that electrode and increase it at the other , the effect being greatest at the altered electrode ; but the influence of density was very much smaller than that of strength of current .
The current was usually less " resisted , " and larger with a small positive plate and a large negative one , than with those sizes reversed .
Alterations of size or kind of metal at one plate of an electrolytic or voltaic cell affected the " transfer-resistance " at the other , by altering the strength and density of the current .
" Transfer-resistance , " therefore , appears to vary , not only with every physical and chemical change in the metals and liquids , but also with every alteration in the current .
Such " resistance " throws light upon the relative functions of the positive and negative plates of voltaic cells , and illustrates the comparatively small influence of the negative one in producing strength of current .
Nearly all these conclusions are based upon results represented by average numbers obtained by series of experiments .

