]\gt ; .
Volcanic Energy : an attempt to develop its true Origin and Cosmical Relations .
ROBERT MALLET , A.M. , C.E. , M.R.I.A. , F.R. Received May 13 , \mdash ; Read June 20 , 1872 .
1 .
PLUTONIC action has long been loosely applied by as a term for forces of some sort , of whose nature little was known , acting deep beneath the surface of our globe , and either not directly manifesting themselves at all at the surface , or , if so , chiefly in the form of ealthquakes , thermal springs , \amp ; c. ; while volcanic action , showing itself at the surface in the phenomena of extinct , dormant , or active volcanoes , has been vely generally regarded as something different in nature as well as in degree of activity .
Some relations have always , more or less vaguely , been admitted between these ; but each has in turn been placed in the lelation of cause and effect to the other .
A third class of actions , those of ' ' forces of elevation though assumed to have some relations with the , have very commonly been legarded by ists as differing in nature from both , in degree as well as in kind .
It is true that all these phenomena have been linked together by such wide and vague phrases as that oft BOLDT , who speaks of them as " " the reaction of the intelior of a planet upon its exterior ; \ldquo ; but I am not aware of any attempt having previously been made to colligate them all as effects originating in one common cause , and that referable to the admitted cosmical facts and mechanism of our globe .
Sir THOMSON , regarding all these phenomena from the lofty point of thermodynamics ( which the writer also is about to view them in this paper ) , has distinctly colligated them as referable to dissipation of energy in our planet in the form of terrestrial heat , and has given to all its play of phenomena the title of ' ' tonic action which he defines as " " any transformation of energy going on within the earth\ldquo ; Tralls .
Geolog .
Soc. of Glasgow , vol. iii .
pt .
ii 2 .
The writer accepts Sir WILLIAM THOIISON'S above , so far as he is yet acquainted with them publication , as the broad basis for future physical geology .
Sir WULLIAM THOIISON , however , has not attempted , so as the wliter knows , to his general , that volcanoes , hquakes , \amp ; c. lcsult from transformations of terrestrial heat , so to bear upon the facts known these as to explain in ally way the immediate mechanism from the play of which within globe these rand phenomena of nature are produced ; nor to connect these with the " " eleyatio theories\ldquo ; of geologists , so as to substitute a precise and one for the lent and elroneous notions as to the nature of those forces which have elevated mountain-ranges and generally produced the inequalities of our lobc , apart from the subsequent actions of water and other surface agencies .
CCLXXIII . .
ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
The attempt to do this , in outline at least , which is all , perhaps , that existing admits of , is the object of the present paper .
The term " " Plutonic action\ldquo ; is objectionable , as ah'eady and long used by geologists in a loose and different sense .
Vulcanicity is preferable , as proposed by the writer Report on Earthquakes , Brit. Assoc. Rep. 1858 ) , as comprehending all energy resulting either in volcanoes ( Vulcanology ) or in earthquakes ( Seismology ) .
In the former of these , forces of elevation generally may be compl.ehended , and in the latter thermal springs , though , will appear when the intimate relations of the mechanism of all of these are better understood , the boundaries of these divisions at some points grow indistinct .
3 .
The phenomena seen at volcanic vents , and those experienced in earthquakes , have been tolerably well observed ; and the immediate mechanism of the latter may be considered as understood , though the cause or causes of commotion , and it may be very different at different times and places , are still somewhat obscure .
The deeper mechanism of volcanic vents , all nearly except what is visible and tangible , is so far quite obscure ; and this mainly because no rational origin has ever yet been assigned for the production of the high temperature manifested at volcanic vents .
To assign a true for this is to possess the key of the whole ; for given a veritable cosmical mechanism for the production of the heat that shall square with its local distlibution , and with the capricious , non-periodic phenomena of eruptive vents , and all the other observed phenomena of volcanoes , from the largest to the most minute of these , become explicable and fall into place upon a .
terraqueous globe .
As respects a presumed connexion , if not identity , save as to degree of intensity , between volcanic and seismic mechanism , however vaguely referred to some common force of ination , it can scarcely be said hitherto to have advanced beyond this .
Volcanoes , notwithstanding Von BUCH'S unsound distinction into linear and central groups , have long been observed to follow the lines of sulface-elevations , .
mountainchains , the exceptions being only apparent .
( 4th Report on Earthquakes , Brit. Assoc. .
the writer has shown ( Earthquake Catalogue , Brit. Assoc. and Seismic Map of the world thereof ) that earthquakes on the whole are to 0CCU within the area of reat seismic bands which follow and extend at either side of the mountain-chains of the world .
Again , thermal springs occul .
everywhere ( just as earthquakes may occur anywhere ) , yet on the whole they are chiefly manifested in regions which have been are greatly by mountain clevation or by volcanic and seismic activity .
Thus we find this local relationship binding together the 11-holc , .
that volcanoes , ealthquakes , and hot follow the lines of mountain elevation or dislocation .
And this is alrnost all that we can cel.tainly affirm connects them as having some common beneath .
4 Any ranean impulse may procluce an ealthquake ; and for those impulses thele must be more than one nature of ol.igin , for the ulse P. a shock like that of Riobamba cannot be the same as those .
the tremors of Pignerol or of Comrie , lasting for ycars .
ROBERT lfAlLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
Close to the volcanic vent the eruptive throes may produce earthquake-impulse before or after these have broken through the earth 's surface ; but we cannot connect most earthquakes with volcanic action at all , inasmuch as there is , even in the very greatest , no local change of terrestrial surface-tempelature .
We can only refer them to a common origin , if we can discover and describe some play of cosmical mechanism set in motion by terrestrial heat , that shall be sufficient in energy to account for all the phenomena , that shall bear examination when brought into contact with each particular class of well-ascertained facts , either of volcanoes or of earthquakes or of mountain-chain elevation , that shall leave none of these facts inexplicable , and that shall so link itself on to cosmical physics generally as to be applicable to like phenomena in other planets than our satellites , so far as we have facts ascertainable in relation to these .
5 .
Within the limits of this paper it is impossible to enter upon any large discussion of the theories that have been adyanced as to the nature and origin ofvolcanic activity and elevatory action ; a few lemarks upon the notions commonly curlent on these subjects amongst geologists are necessary , however , to point out their more salient defects and to contrast the views about to be heal advanced with those which are current .
6 .
Volcanic theories have been always of two classes , the chemical and the mechanical .
omitting all earlier , notion that volcanic heat was due to oxidation of the metals of the alkalies or earths by contact with water , supported by and in part by DE LA BECHE , is that which has mainly engaged attention .
Had it not been for the splendour of genius and the announcement of this view at the moment of his reat discovery of the bases of the alkalies , it would probably never have had even a momentary acceptance .
DAVY himself abandoned it at a later period .
AVhen we remenlber that the minelal constituents in the rocks known in the earth 's crust do not contain on the average more than about 4 or 5 per cent. of the alkaline metals taken together , and compare the natule of the total of volcanic vents , more especially those of gas 01 vapour as ascertained by many labourers , amongst whom must be distinguished DAUBENY himself , ABlCH , BUNSEN , ST.-CLAIRE DEVILLE , and FOUQUE , with such as , must lesult from hypothesis , can only wonder that one so absolutely ratuitous should ever ve had a moment 's acceptance .
There is no other ' chemical theol.y\ldquo ; to put in its place .
All great or violent chemical energies , powerful as these must have been in past time , when the materials of planet were in vapour and dissociated by temperature , have long since been as a whole satisfied .
7 .
As the thermal energy of the shrinking mass was ssipated , and it passed from vapour to liquid , and from that in chief part to solidity , the chemical of the sixty more elements we know of became satisfied by the and conditions of which chemistry may yet hope to trace , though it cannot do so at present* .
* STERRY HUNT and SIONEY ve , however , made nttcmpt .
8 .
That there now exist in the interior of the earth large masses of uncombined metals of great specific gravity and high fusing-point , and strongly electronegative in the chemical scale , as gold and platinum , to which we may add iron if its vapour existed in large excess in the original nebula , is highly probable , both on such speculations as we can so far as to the order of the play of chemical forces during the globe 's formation by condensation , and as perhaps the only way in which the earth 's mean density can be l.econciled with that of its known superficial crust .
But the chemical elements composing that crust are on the whole in a state of combination ; and hence no chemical energy remains stored up for conversion either into heat or into work .
9 .
For we may obviously , in relation to vulcanicity , pass by those minute chemical changes at present going on within the crust , mainly through the action of air and water and matter dissolved therein on some of its various constituents .
We may even omit as insufficient whatever of chemical action took place during the period ( probably yet not quite ended ) when the mineral veins were formed .
In a word , the chemical elements of the crust and interior ofour globe , so far as we know any thing about them , have long assumed a state of chemical equilibrium , and one generally of the most stable character .
So that we are compelled to conclude that whatever evidences of chemical decomposition or combination may be presented to us by the ejecta of volcanoes , the chemical action has been brought about by elevation of temperature at the seat of action deep below .
10 .
That thermal energy has been in part transformed into chemical work and not chemical energy into heat .
There is therefore no room longer for any " " chemical theory\ldquo ; of volcanoes ; and we leduced to that commoxlly , though not quite accurately , called the mechanical one .
This has passed current at different times in several forms , but all resting upon the assumption that our planet now and for long past consists of a liquid nucleus of fused matter at a very high temperature , covered by a solidified crust of matter chemically much the same , but the materials of the uppermost strata of which at least have been dislocated , oken up , redeposited , and variously arranged into surface formations by the long-continued action of those superficial agencies with which the geologist deals .
1 ] .
The hypothesis of the existence of aliquid nucleus intensely hot rests mainly upon two grounds : , the nebular origin ofour globe in common with all others , as ested by LAPLACE , by which the interior of a cooling globe must be hotter than the exterior ; 2nd , the observation of tempel.atul.e , which proves to increase with the depth , though in a vely dant sort of way .
12 .
That our globe is hotter within than on or near its surface is a fact , but that it possesses a liquid nucleus in a state of fusion is only an hypothesis , though a very probable one .
The rate of increment of temperatul.e with depth , far too hastily assumed to follow where one simple arithmetic law , and the facts of terrestrial conductivity , so as these are known , induced the belief that the solid crust is comparatively thin .
MR. ROBERT IIALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
An unlimited supply of liquid lava was thus provided ; the question was , what brought it up through this thin crust , and ejected it and other mattels at the surface .
By some , amongst whom Signor BELLI may be distinguished for the ability of his writings , the crust was assumed so thin as to merely float upon the liquid globe beneath ; and a mechanism being conceived for fracturing the crust into separate fragments , and their density being rather greater than that of the supporting fluid , these sunk more or less in the latter and forced up the liquid lava in the spaces between .
13 .
This , which may be called the hydrostatic theory , has had several modifications .
Another school of ists , and the more numerous one , assumes that infiltrated water reaches the liquid and incandescent nucleus at certain points , and that by the elastic force of the stream formed the lava and other ejecta are forced up ; and this , too , has had several modifications .
These latter views are no doubt true so far as the general notion of ejection by steam pressure is concerned ; but insuperable difficulties appear to arise against the origin of the incandescent matter coming from one great reservoir , common , therefore , to all the volcanoes on the earth .
14 .
There is no evidence of universal connexion with such a common source of liquid rock beneath .
On the contrary , volcanic vents even closely adjacent show no proofs of direct intercommunication .
Their efforts are not synchronous ; their paroxysms are isolated and subject to no recognizable periodicity ; their ejecta , solid , liquid , or gaseous , though showing a great genelal similarity in all parts of the world , are far from being identical in chemical constitution or in temperature ; these valy at different times , and show signs of secular change in geologic time .
The liquid or solid ejecta show no such uniformity at all volcanic vents as should arise from their coming all ready fused from one universal reservoir , the contents of which , at the same depth , it has been supposed there is no ground for assuming to differ in composition ; while they show very distinct indications of having some relation to the rocks directly through which the vents pierce , 01 over which they are posited .
None of these difficulties , to which others of a not unimportant character might be added , have ever been explained away . .
A further difficulty was placed in the way when the investigations taken from astronomical considerations were supposed to prove that the earth 's crust , instead of being very thin , must be vel.y thick .
It was not inconceivable that the liquid rock of the nucleus in some way reach the surface rough ducts or Qsures in a shell of 20 or 60 miles thick ; but it was at least more difficult to conceive , if not quite inconceivable , by what force and how it should be propelled through ducts of 800 1000 miles 01 even more in depth .
It is quite a separate question what degree of weight should be attached to the celeblated paper by the late .
HOPKINS , F.R.S. , on ccession and Nutation , as proving a thickness of solid crust exceeding 800 miles or so .
difficulties to his reasoning , arising from his neglect of viscosity and hold between the solid crust and the liquid nucleus at the surfaces of contact , have been forcibly stated by UNAY ( and have certainly been underrated generally , and , indeed , have only been met by the mathematicians who have been the partisans of Mr. HOPKINS'S views ) , by showing that if the physical difficultyof such viscosity\amp ; c. be admitted , other mathematical difficulties must arise if we cling to the method of Mr. HOPKINS as capable at all of giving any answer to the question of thickness of the earth 's crust , which the writer believes it is not .
That that thickness is not small , however , the writer believes to be the fact upon considerations wholly different from those of Mr. HOPKINS ; and that view receives support from the investigation of Sir VILLIAM THOMSON as to the rigidity of the earth , at least with those who admit the sufficiency of the physical data upon which his mathematical .
there is founded .
The effect , however , of this conjunction of the reasonings of the physical astronomer and of the has been to raise a new difficulty for both .
16 .
The geologist , chaineddown under 800miles or more ofsolid rock , the real thickness of which he is in no condition to disprove , cannot get his liquid lava sea beneath to the surface ; and he has no other source for volcanic heat and ejecta to suggest .
The mathematician has the fact before him ; volcanoes exist .
He admits the difficulty of the geologist , and meets it by the most lame and gratuitous hypothesis of lakes or isolated masses of liquid fused lock existing at different points and at different depths ( which depths , howevel , must , on the whole , be shallow within the solid crust of the earth ) , and assumes that from these the volcanic vents are supplied .
17 .
Nothing can be morefeeble and than the attemptmadebyMr .
HOPKINS to give a rational explanation orsupport to this gratuitous and most improbable hypothesis , which , so far as the writer knows , that gentleman was the first to bring forward in his " " Researches in Physical Gcology 2nd selies , Phil. .
for 1842 , Part lI .
:\mdash ; ' ' We are necessarily led he says , " " therefore to the conclusion that the fluid matter of actual volcanoes exists in subterraneous reservoirs limited extent , forming subterraneous lakes and not a subterlaneous ocean\ldquo ; ( p. 51 ) .
He adds ( same page ) , ' If we find that the hypothesis of the existence of these lakes , at no great depth beneath the surface , does enable us to account distinctly and by aCCUl.ate inyestigations founded on mechanical principles for the phenomenon of elevation . . . . .
then we have all the proof of the truth of hypothesis which the nature of the case will admit of That is to say , if we admit Mr. 's physical notion of elevatory force , viz. that it consists of pressure vertically upwards of a fluid against the superincumbent solid crust , we may also admit his lakes .
If , however , as we shall presently see , Mr. HOPKINS'S fundamental conception of the nature of eleYatory forces is erroneous and then the lake-hypothesis must stand alone and upon its inherent improbabilities .
At p. 52 the only attempt made to produce a rational origin for these supposed fiery lakes is thus givcn It would seem , I think , that .
origin may be ascribed to the greater fusibility of the matter composing them ; and their continuance in a state of fluidity may , I conccive , be accounted for partly by the same and partly by another , which I will to explain MR ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
This other cause , which occupies pages 52 and 53 , is simply another hypothesis , that if the pressure of the superincumbent dome over the liquid lake be removed , partially or wholly , by its becoming a self-supporting dome or arch , then the relief from pressure thus arising must lowel the fusing-point of the liquid material of the lake , and so keep it longer liquid . .
There is nothing absolutely in any of the known facts as to the materials of earth 's crust to warrant our supposing isolated masses therein of far greater fusibility than the remainder , to say nothing of that material being ex necessitate penetrated by water from the surface , to which it is admittedly near ; for without the water we can have no volcano .
Other serious difficulties occur as we attempt to follow out this notion by a comparison with observed facts of volcanic action at the vents , for which space cannot here be afforded .
We pass on to some remarks on the theories of elevation .
19 .
The words " " elevation " " upheaval " " Aushebung " " soulevement\ldquo ; have been continually employed by the geologists of all countries , but especially of our own , in the loosest way , so far as the forming of any definite conception of the play of forces or mechanism of the movements is concerned .
A wide survey of the writings of geologists , however , that the notion generally formed of a movement of elevation\ldquo ; is that it is produced somehow by a force acting beneath a limited area and in a vertical line , or nearly so , and in a direction from below upwards .
Commonly it is assumed or inferred that the pressure upwards , beneath the area elevated has been that of a fluid , gaseous , as by Von BUCH \amp ; c. , or more or less perfectly liquid , as by most others .
20 .
It is true that some geologists ( whom was the late .
JUKES ) had some not very clearly defined notions that such machinely of elevation would not account for the facts as to elevated masses observable in nature , especially the frequent smallness of area in relation to the abruptness and height of the masses elevated .
But that this notion , that elevation is produced somehow by nearly parallel forces acting radially to the spheroid , is even yet the one commonly maintained we need no proof beyond turning ovel the pages of the latest writers on geology .
If we look at the figure on page 285 ( 2nd edit .
, 1862 ) of SCROPE'S ' Volcanoes , ' we shall see evidently that such is the notion he formed ; and , without citing further examples , it is that which lIoPKINS distinctly enunciates as his fundamental conception of the matter in his papel on " " Researches in Physical Geology\ldquo ; ( Trans. Cambridgc Phil. Soc. vol. .
part where he says ( p. 10 ) The hypotheses from which I set out , with respect to the of the elevatory force , are , I conceive , as simple as the natule of the subject can admit of .
I assume this force to act under portions of the earth 's crust of considerable evtcnt at any assignable depth , either with uniform intensity at every point , or , in some cases , with a somewhat greater intensity at particular points\mdash ; as , for instance , at points the line of maximum elevation of an elevated , or at other points where the actual phenomena seem to indicate a mol.e than ol.dinary of this subtcrrancan action : I suppose this elevatory force , whatcver be its , to ttyon lowe ' ce of the uplifted mass through the medium some fluid , which may be conceived to be an elastic vapour , or , in other cases , a mass of matter in a state of fusion from heat .
Every geologist , I conceive , who admits the action of elevatory forces at all will be disposed to admit the legitimacy of these assumptions The first effort of our elevatory force will of course be to raise the mass under which it acts , and to place it in a state of extension , and consequently of tension .
21 .
If this fundamental notion be ( as the writer believes it is ) erroneous and opposed to all the facts observable in the great regions of elevation , .
in the mountain-chains of the world , then it must be admitted that the speculations which follow as to the forma- tion of fissures \amp ; c. ( in a word , the substance of the doctrines of this paper , however ingenious as a mathematical exel.cise ) have no true leference to the facts as occurring in nature , and , promulgated with the authority of the author and with that sort of oracular sanction which mathematical symbols possess for those who are devoid of mathematical knowledge , have tended materially to retard the progress of a truer interpretation of elevatory forces .
22 .
If we were to assume ( as has been done ) that the appearance of the masses of the great continents above the sea-level was a work of elevation at all , it might be a case to which notion could perhaps apply .
But that the great continents have not been the wolk of such forces at all , but have resulted from the deformation of a cooling and contracting globe covered only by a thin and yet flexible solidified crust , sinking over great al.eas and relatively or absolutely l.ising over others , has been so convincingly urged by DANA and other American geologists that it is probably admitted . .
DE LA BECHE'S notions as to elevation approached nearer to exactness than those of most of his contemporaries* ; but to one man alone , CONSTANT PREVOST , the honoul of having clearly enunciated a true theory of elevatory forces , followed out by comparison with facts in nature , and by that these were inexplicable upon the notion of direct upheaval by a radial force from beneath .
* : [ To cite even by name all the authors whose works contain scattcred passages from which notices may be gleaned always more less vague , even inconsecutive ) as to the relation between terrestrial refrigeration and the formation of contincnts , mountains , \amp ; c. , is here impossible .
DE BECIIE , in his ' Researches in Theoretic Geology , ' 1834 .
pp. \mdash ; ) et passim , writes far more clearly and connectedly than others of that period .
His views , however , were anticipated by PRLVOST .
hosc who desire to trace more fully the history of this branch of will find somewhat ample references to past authors in an able paper by .
DANA , " " On the esults of the 's Contraction in Amcr .
Journ. of Science , 1847 , vol. The leading idea of present Pilper ( namely , tho showing that the deformations roducin continents and producing contlnen sca-beds , he elevation of mountains and depression of vadleys , and the ination of volcanic hcat and all duc to a unique cause at different stages of its long-continued action ) could not have be anticipated any of the many cminent men above referred to , by or by the writer .
becauseo fect state of the scicnce of Thermo-Dynamics down to a latcr period rendered the leading idea itsclf impossible to them .
] lmper N.B. Passages in the text or footnotes which , like the present footnote are enclosed in brackets lnscrted in March or April .
ROBERT IsLALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
24 .
The nature of the conception of this force , as mole or less clearly shadowed forth by geologists , admits of no doubt , as ards French geologists at least , when we considel the force of their adopted term ( presumably sublevare , veJnenf , a lift by a folce from beneath ) , and , indeed , is pretty evident in the German Aushebung ; but the ' ' upheaval\ldquo ; and " " elevation\ldquo ; admit of any cloudiness of conception or latitude of interpretation .
25 .
PREVOST'S ideas are scattered numerous papels , .
over nearly twenty years , but are to be found in their most systematic and manner in vol. xxxi .
part ii .
of the ' Comptes Rendus ' for September 1850 , p. 461 et seq. , and , at an eallil peliod , in the ' Bulletin de la Societe ique de France , ' vol. xi .
p. et seq. His view is this , apart from the great deformations which hollowed out the ocean-beds , as to which he is not quite so clear , all elevations of the earth 's surface of the natulc of hills or mountains ( in genelal the rugose contour of its surface ) have been not by veltical forces directly coming from some unknown deep-scated sourcc , but by vertical forces , the resultants of , acting against each other in zontal or nearly horizontal directions , and transvelsely to the ridges or lines of elevation , these tangential pressures originating in the contraction of the earth 's crust by seculal refi.igeration .
This view , which the writer believes to be true , has been followed out by DANA , the two ROGERS in America , by ELIE DE and some other continental geologists , by showing how completely the observed facts fall into place and are accountable for by it , but oppose themselves to the notion of a vertical folce .
26 .
The Rev. O. FISHER also , in an important paper " " On the Elevation of lIountainchains , and Speculation on the Cause of Volcanic Heat\ldquo ; Trans. vol. xi . .
iii , 1868 ) , which the writer had no knowledge ofuntil after the paper had beenwritten , has given support to PREVOST'S view , by proving the mechanical adequacy of the pressure due to lefiigelation to the elevation of the highest mountains of our Mr. FISHER'S views in the above paper as to the origin of volcanic heat are entirely different from those of the wlitel as here developed .
27 .
Upon 's view , all elevated parts must have convex sulfaces , and , whether continents or ridges steep as the high Alps , must be or dome-like in contour ; must all present the evidences of tension .
elevation and in orthogonal directions .
But the careful geological surveys and sections made since PREVOST'S day show that , on the whole , the sectional contour of large al.eas , much less those of continents , not bombci , and that the transverse sections mountain-ranges their curvatules on opposite flanks to be not convex , but concave\mdash ; a form which is generally the case in the fall of the land from all mountain-crests to the sea-level , as is evident by the 'concave form ( approaching to something of a curve of the pal.abolic ol.der ) shown by the section of all large river-courses .
28 .
The " " fan-like\ldquo ; structure of the Alps ( structure en eventail ) , so well elucidated by FAVRE and STUDER , Von LINTH , and other Alpine geologists , becomes a conclusive alone that the forces of elevation have been lateral compressions resolved into the IDCCCLXXIII .
MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
fissuring in nature do , to a certain extent in one set of directions only , viz. in those orthogonal to the lines of horizontal pressure , coincide with those assigned by Mr. But it furthel follows , admitting the relative plasticity of the less cohelent formations of our earth 's crust and the sufficient power of these tangential pressures up the others , that not only elevation may result from their vertical resolution , but that conditions must arise where these pressures act through considerable depths of ials d in nature or in resistance , or in both , so that , by other analogous lcsolutions into the vertical or more or less towald it but in the opposite vnwards ) , Jressions and hollows of any sort of form are producible .
35 .
Also that when these tangential and complessive forces , taken in a plane , make an angle in meeti atel O less ( as may also happen in a plane ) , then latelal displacements and all the phenomena of shifted stlata 01 interrupted veins or faults can be produced .
36 .
can also see that this view of the ination of forces which have raised up our vast mountain-chains at once a true and adequate cause for a limitation to their possible as soon as the mass forced presscs by gravity downwards upon the lesolved veltical force to such an extent as to equal the resistance to crushing of the rocks beneath in the directions and further effect of the tangential pressures in those directions must be expended in the rock between them to powder , whele in some direction the solid can yield unequally , or in forcing off the material in some other direction than in the vertical .
It is difficult to see how any limit is assignable to mountain altitude upon Mr. HOPKINS'S hypothesis , unless by calling in other hypotheses for limiting the .
force itself , the intensity of ich we cannot estimate in his case , inasmuch as its very nature is left unknown .
37 .
If , then , in PBEVOST'S notion we find an adequate and consistent theory of elevatoly forces , it is the writer 's belief that in it also ( when followed to its legitimate consequences in one direction ) we possess the clue that shall ultimately lead us to an equally simple , adequate , and consistent theory of Vulcanicity as here about being unfolded .
38 .
That the globe is hotter as we descend into it may be accepted as a fact , even from the very limited number of trustworthy experiments we yet possess ; for altesian wells and small are alone to be l.elied upon , mines and coal-pits .
( for leasons not necessary heal to upon ) unreliable results .
39 .
And as we are certain that the geothermal of annual is everywhere above the .
temperature of the celestial spaces , so our planet must be a cooling globe ; and if so , in accordance with know of the materials of which it consists , a contracting globe .
40 .
The rates of increment of with depth , howevel , present gleat discordance even after we have excluded cases ( such as mines or coal-pits at work ) likely to contain accidental sources of error .
Not only does the rate vary 1o Fahr. in 15 feet of depth to 1o in mole than 200 MALLET , arthquake Repol .
, but in places within a mile or two of each other , and in same formation , it much as from 208 to 83 feet for .
cit in the same vertical line of .
the rate of increment has been found to vary at different parts of the descent .
proportion of the observed temperatures certainly fall within the limits of Fahr. in 30 feet and in 60 or 70 feet of descent .
The most complete and valuable collection and discussion of all the observations on l.ecol.d up to June 1836 which the writer has met with is to be found in a rare and scarcely known Inau Dissertation for the degree of Doctor of the Rheno-Trajectine Academy Amsterdam , , entitled ' ' Disputatio Physica Inaugularis de Calore Telluris infra superficiem augescente by A. .
The careful and laborious author places the following amongst his general conclusions:\mdash ; " " Variarum observationum autem eventus , adeo inter se discrepare ut certam incrementi legem pro unaquaque regione nondum statuel.e possimus He believes it proved that in eneral the rate of increment is greater in plains and valleys than in mountains .
41 .
These conclusions have been sustained by the later observations made since 1836 .
DE Brcnr , HERSCHEL , and BABBAGE enunciated more less clearly a connexion between the increment of ' heat and the conductivity of the superposed strata .
That afterwards examined carefully by HOPKINS in one of his most valuable , that " " On the Conductive Powers of various Substances , \amp ; c ( Phil. Trans. vol. cxlvii .
, 1857 ) .
Towalds the conclusion he lemarks , " " On the whole , then , I cannot avoid the conclusion that the existence of a central heat is not sufficient in itself to account for all the phenomena which terlestrial tempelattlres present to us\ldquo ; ; that is to say , that a cooling globe , togethel with such effects as his experiments on conductivity of its materials warlant , are still insufficient to account for the observed discrepancies in hypogeal increment of heat .
42 .
One great source ( if not the only one ) for the unknown residual phenomena thus distinctly indicated by HOPXINS we hope presently to point out , and to its intimate connexion with existing volcanic phenomena .
43 .
Our present knowledge of hypogeal temperatul.e , while thus and so far insufficient to sustain any very minute conclusions based upon annual absolute loss of heat by ealth , seems surely to support the fact that our earth is a cooling globe ; while astlonomical and considerations of its figure seem equally to warrant the presumption that it has been a cooling globe at all times from a state of fusion ; and if so , that that pel.iod and up to the present it has been on the whole a contracting globe .
These are all the conditions we l.equire to admit for the conclusions to be obtained by considering the sequence of the phenomena that have followed on refrigeration .
44 .
It may be l.emarked , in , that the gcnel.al cl.edence of geologists in the at all of our globe has been or less disturbed by the celebl.ated memoir of Iccanique " " On the ' of the Earth as the of the ) \ldquo ; in which it been taken for , by most at leust , that the grcat mathcmatician has in.efutably that our globc has not oled sensibly for the last 2000 yeal.s .
45 .
With due reverence .
the intcllectual of , the writer Yentures .
ROBERT bfALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
to that his calculation leally proves nothing as to what may be the actual facts in nature , because the physical data which he has employed are not such as actually 0CCU1 in nature .
The law of compression with depth adopted was objected to by Dr. YOUNG ; and the assumption that the coefficient of contraction is the same for the entire globe , whether liquid or solid , hotter or colder , seems to vitiate the results .
If a colder and consolidated crust possesses a greater density and a smaller coefficient of action than the liquid or solid but hotter matter beneath , by accretion and solidification from which the crust is gradually thickened , it is easy to see that such a relation may subsist between these quantities that the distance of the centre of gyration of the globe from its centre of figure may remain constant , either for very long periods , although the diameter of the earth as a whole may have din1inished by contraction ; and thus , since the moment of momentum must have remained unchanged , the angular velocity , upon which the length of the day depends , may have lemained constant ( or so nearly so that its variation may have been absolutely insensible ) for 2000 years , perhaps for a much longer period , notwithstanding that the world , as a whole , may have been losing heat all the time at a very sensible rate per annum , as seems to be the undeniable fact .
46 .
Let us take up the train of phenomena of refrigelation from the peliod when we may suppose the whole globe a liquid spheroid in fusion , lotating upon an axis inclined to its olbit as now , losing heat by radiation , and receiving that of the sun .
the late of refrigeration generally , it must have been greatest towards the poles ; so that any solidified crust must have first formed about the poles and spread thence in two hemispherical sheets , getting thinner as they neared the equator , where they ultimately joined .
From what we know by our meal furnace or laboratory experiencc of the effects of hest tempelatures on metals and on the matelials that we must presume constitute the mass of our globe , it is certain that , at tempelatules exceeding their fusing-points , they become more and mole liquid up to some not yet known , amd that at points a good deal above those of fusion they are reduced to mobile liquids of extremely small viscosity .
47 .
On the hand , it is equally certain that all metals , and such mixed matelials as constitute rocks ( acid and basic silicates ) , pass through a rapidly increasing phase of viscosity as they pass below the fusing-point on their way to solidity .
It is this interval of rapidly increasing viscosity below the -point and above that of complete solidification that enables and iron \amp ; c. to be welded .
This of viscosity in metals is very brief ; but in earthy mixtures compounds , such as the acid or basic silicates , it is much more , and increase of viscosity towards the limits of temperature much greater than in metals .
48 .
Vith the extreme fiuidity of the molten spheroid the exalted tempelaturc that we must infer for it at the time of its first condensation apoul , and after the great chemical equilibrium of its elements ( then entered into colnbinations to these we now find in the globe so far as we know it ) , it is not conceivable but that great currents of circulation must have arisen within .
the spheroid , by reason of the rapid at the poles than in equatorial regions , warmer currents proceeding superficially the equator towalds the poles , and colder currents returning about the axis of l.otation , and .
and ascending about the plane of the equator .
But the effect of these in equalizing the temperature of the superficial and deep parts of the spheroid would be small ; it would , notwithstanding their influence , be always greatly hotter at the centre than at any palt of the surface or near it .
The extel.ior couches becoming mole and more viscous as lefi.igelation proceeded , a thin solid crust would at length be formed over the whole spheroid , thickest at the poles .
This crust , while thin , though solid through a certain thickness , would be very nearly at the same high temperature as the viscous and the fluid matter beneath it .
It would therefore still continue to palt with heat by radiation at a late not very far different from what the sulface of the liquid spheloid did prior to formation of any crust .
49 .
But it is certain ( as will be hereafter shown ) that the coefficient of contraction per degree is less , for such materials as locks are formed of , when in the solid than in the viscous or liquid state , and decleases as a function of the temperature down to the mean temperature of our It would depend upon the rate of surface-cooling , compal'ed with that of the viscous matter below , and upon conditions of radiation \amp ; c. , for which we have no sufficient data , whether the relations between the rate of cooling and of the contraction of the exterior and intelior not give lise to tensions within the thin ; but upon the whole the effect would appear to be to pressures also within the crust .
To the compressions producible by these the thin crust would readily give way by folding over , or equally give way to tension by breaking to pieces .
density of the solidified mattel in this thin crust was no doubt greater than that of the viscous layer beneath it , and the density of the last greater than that of the liquid matter still deeper ; but the diffel'ence in density must have been small ( as we shall hereafter see ) , the diffel.ence of between such layel.s being so .
Nor can we attribute any jl.eat difference in density to any abrupt molecular change in volume known to accompany the passage from the viscous to the solid state in the matel.ials of rocks .
[ The differcllces in density in the of mineral from the vitreous to the ystalline state , and , are not great , and in those cases the cooling has been compalatively sudden .
In the production of polcelain , change by slow heating is preceded by abrupt cooling as glass .
In our crust there was not abrupt 50 .
The thin crust , even if more or less dislocated , would therefore probably still l.emain upon the bUrface , sustailled by the viscous bed beneath and that by the liquid spheroid , and would not piecemeal sink into the lattel. .
But should we assume it to do so , there appears the utmost improbability in the , which inated with POISSO , , and secms to be adopted by THOMSON , the sheets broken such thin crust and constantly renewed would MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
sink to the centre of theliquid spheroid , and remain there still solid , and so gradually , of such fiery debris , build up a honeycombed but solid nucleus , with liquid mattel above it and a solid crust above all .
YVhen we take into account the excessive relative thinness of the original solid a very few miles , perhaps only a few fathoms , and the small volume of its mass in comparison with the enormous volume of the liquid nucleus , through which the fragments of crust have to descend some 4000 miles , together with the enormous excess in temperature of the liquid approaching nearer the centre , it seems impossible to arrive at any rational conclusion , except that such sunken sheets of solid crust must be reduced to liquid fusion again by heat conducted into them from the heated liquid , the local temperature of which would be increased by heat genelated by their fall through the liquid a distance nearly equal the earth 's radius before they ever reached the centre ; and assuming that the laws of glavitation within a spheroid , and the density of the crust and relative rate of compression with depth of the crust and of the liquid , would ever permit them to reach that centre , hypothesis , which has been a stumbling-block in the way of more lational interpretation of these difficult questions of primaeval geognosy , should , the writer submits , be set aside .
51 .
In cooling bodies , as the loss of heat in equal times is .
the ' the difference in temperature between the hotter and colder bodies , the rate of cooling of the globe , when its general tempelature must have exceeded that of hottest naces , and when , as we must presume , that of the celestial spaces was the same as now , must have been very lapid .
The amount of contraction also ( aided as the cooling rate was by the circulatory currents within the liquid referled to ) must have been pp.tionally rapid .
52 .
The viscous crust must be supposed greatly thicker than the solid sheet above it .
The enormous amount of rapid contraction at this period was , in the 's opinion , met by that deformation of the spheroid which hollowed out the ocean-bed to very much the general outlines that we now see , and so the general to the continents .
This cannot be viewed at present as much than a conj e ; still it is one not without support both authority and from facts .
It seems impossible to assign any other machinery or one adequate in force to a soulevement or subsidence so , extending unbroken ovel such areas , and which ] give to the sections of both land and ocean-bed thei actual , which ( without ( to mountain and yalley ) arc but vast flat , raised-up plains , dipping more or less abruptly down to equally } , flat , saucer-like plains of occan concavity .
Lateral thust or ladial pressure at centles seems here equally inapplicable .
It is for the physical Stronomer to the causes of this very striking and obviously not ation of this mation on the surface of our .
[ It should also be remarked that a cel.tain ordel in the form of the land ( coast-lines ) and sea indicates that these not the esult of superficial actions , such as deposition , denudation , and lccal oscillations of level , but must be ascribed to forces which acted ( along with these or before them ) upon a vast if not universal scale , and at far greater depths beneath the existing surface .
] 53 .
It is a remarkable fact that the western coasts of nearly all the great masses of land are the steepest , and that even without reference to anges of mountain , such the Andes or those of the Malabar coast* .
Now this is just what we should expect if the ocean-bed were the result of the depression of the surface of the spheloid by the deformation supposed ; for the matter in the crust that descended , having a velocity of rotation due to its higher l.adius ( that prior to depression ) , } old , in descending to the level of the ocean-bed , tcnd to fall ( and by so much of the energy of its whole mass of matter to push ) to the eastward of the true veltical , just as a weight let drop from a height falls to the of the vertical .
This effect would be greater as the deformation was more l.npid , but would disappear while it occupied some finite time .
[ The rapidity of elevation has at all times depended upon the late of eration ; and the lattel , hateYer its actual rate al any given epoch , must have been greater as the temperature of the carth 's sulface was higher as compaled with space .
Thus , when the tempelature of the surface , lct us suppose , the annual late of elevation of great mountain-chains may have been considerable .
] If , on the contraly , the continents were up by some inconceiyable of elevation , no such phenomenon would present itself ; and seems impossible to see how this could have occul.red without the of vast cavities beneath .
54 .
These sudden flexules at the junctions of the continents and sea-basins initiated lines of fracture and of weakness in the early st , along which find ranges of mountains and volcanic action now .
55 .
The ocean-bed mation took place most probably long before the surfacetemperature was such as to admit of its being filled with a permanent ocean water , though probably for a long period depositions of boiling vater , at an enolmously high boiling-point , took place locally and in basins here and thel.e , beginning towards the poles , alternately and bein .
redeposited , and being thus attended with torrential rains and with great sul.face-curl.ents and deluges of hot water .
56 .
To the solvent power of these and to their violent cal'rying and ding action and prodigious powers of breaking up the rocky mass of the crust , by comparatively sudden , by the continued conduction from below ( in onism with the sudden locally ) , by precipitation of comparatively cold water , must be ascribed powers of comminution and alternate denudation and deposition such as later geologic time , much less historic time , presents us with nothing .
the faintest resemblance of .
And to this early machinery may be ascribed the production , as by a mighty mill , ( Amcrican Journ. Sci. 1847 ) has , however , shown a different possible cause for the greater prevalent stecpness of on one of their flanks , viz. the greater intensity of the tangential pressure at the less stccp flank , or smaller resistance of the matcrials of tho opposite one .
This however no solution of the very general fact of western flanks being the steepest.\mdash ; Narch glve MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCAVIC ENERGT .
of the vast mass of comminuted material which has formed the assumed azoic and yet more or less stratified rocks , or of others of like character that may have preceded them .
57 .
At length the crust became further indurated , and with its viscous bed beneath greatly thickened and convection cut off by it , as well as its coefficient of contraction diminished , arrived at that state in which it was thick enough to tangential stresses within its own sheet .
When the balance of contraction in a given time between the crust and nucleus beneath was such ( the latter still in part liquid , contracting fastest because of its large coefficient of contraction ) that the crust began to transmit compressive tangential strains within its thickness , these were of great energy and acted through great ranges .
And now the crust , thick and stiff enough to these strains through great distances , began to corrugate and double up upon itself , and thus to elevate the greater and lesser mountain-chains , many of these ovelthrown and again elevated , whose united volume , could we obtain it , would be in some degree a measure of the total contraction of the spheroid , from the epoch of the crust having become thick enough to transmit powerful tangential thrusts down to a comparatively late period ; for whatever small changes in height may have occurred and are even now taking place ( as in Sweden , \amp ; c no great elevations of mountain-ranges seem to have taken place in posttertiary or pleistocene periods .
58 .
In this state of thickness of the clust of the cooling globe , on principles already alluded to in treating of the nature of elevatory forces , the gleat elevation produced by transmitted tangential thrusts must have been acccompanied by induced or secondary olthogonal , or extensions due to difference of thrust , and thus by great fissurings and by most of the great phenomena of faults and dykes and crystalline-rock usions which we observe .
59 .
Lastly , as refrigeration still proceeded and the crust became far thicker and more rigid , approaching in both respects the state in which it most probably now exists , began that balance and play of forces the effects of which are now recognized as volcanic , with their attendant phenomena of earthquake , thermal springs , \amp ; c. , and upon the precise mechanism of which we must now entel more largely .
This , which we may call the period of volcanic regimen of our globe , in comparison with the brief span of human history , appears.at the first glance one of Yet it is one of decreasing energy , as has been the case with each of the epochs of refrigeration preceding it ; they could not have been otherwise if resulting from the thermal energies of a cooling globe .
60 .
We thus recognize four great stages of the operation of refrigelation , each less in energy than the preceding , but all due to the one all-pervading motive cause , loss ofheat .
1st .
The formation and the deformation of a thin and flexible crust , and with it of the superficial parts of the viscous or liquid couch beneath , shaping out the land and sea boundaries .
2nd .
The splitting and breaking up of that crust and the more rapid ( but irregular ) cooling \amp ; c. produced by the first partial deposit of water upon the I[DCCCLXXIII .
MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
globe , while a large portion ( of its surface even ) may have been still red-hot , and communications partially open with the viscous interior ; this accompanied by sevel.e local tensions and compressions .
3rd .
The increase of rigidity in the thickened crust , when it became able to transmit tangential thrusts due to contraction ; and these ( resolved as has been explained ) elevated the mountain-ranges and originated the hypsometric configuration of the land , the establishment in regimen of the ocean and of the water- courses of the world , and with these the beginnings of climates fitted for successive forms of life . . . . . .
greater than that of the material of the latter .
If the shell covering the nucleus were still thin and flexible it would give way , as formerly : by plication , and fall downwards by gravity as the diameter of the nucleus gradually diminishes by contraction .
But the crust is now a thick rigid covering dome ; its dimensions , owing to its existent small coefficient of , are diminishing slowl compared with those of the nucleus , coefficient , owing to its higher temperature , is much greater .
Hence in ) .
, taking the nucleus as the thickness of the crust being A .
the integral of all the cl.ust , whether absolutely solid .
ROBERT lfALLET ON VOLCANIC ERGY .
or solid enough to resist as an equilibrated dome ) , the more rapid contraction of the nucleus causes it to tend to shrink away from the interior surface of the crust-shell , and to leave the latter partially unsupported ; or , if we assume adhesion between the two at the surface of contact , then the contracting nucleus as it shrinks tends to pull all parts of the spherical crust-shell along with it , radially towards the centre .
In either case the direct result is to produce mutual pressures by tangential strain in all parts of the crust-shell , which , as being sufficiently thick and rigid , resists these forces as a dome .
62 .
If the dome be incapable of resisting the tangential pressures thus produced , it must crush by the mutual compression of its parts ; and if not everywhere homogeneous , or if the pressure be greater in some places than in others , it will crush partially along the weakest places or those most strained .
But as the material of the rigid dome or shell is , like all other matter , compressible as well as amenable to shealing-strain , so these tangential pressm.es must be attended with compressions , and therefore with motion in the particles of the material .
63 .
The " " work\ldquo ; produced by these mutual pressures and motion is transformed into heat , which either heats the whole spherical shell uniformly , if the compressions or work be uniformly diffused through its volume , or heats certain points or lines or planes within it more intensely if the work due to intervening volumes be more or less transferred to those places .
Let us fix this in the mind by an illustration .
Suppose we have an with hard covering shell and softer interior , and that by some means we could cause the soft interior to diminish uniformly in volume so as to shrink away ( or tend to do so ) from the interior of the shell , and thus to leave the latter exposed to the pressure of the atmosphere .
As soon as this takes place tangential pressures are produced within the shell , so that ( if we imagine it a form of equilibrium ) its particles mutually approach each other .
The temperature of the whole shell will therefore necessarily rise , by the internal work thus produced ; and , for illustration , we may suppose the increase of temperature the same in all parts of the shell .
But let us now assume that the shell had been previously cracked , along various ular lines upon its surface ( as we see in boiling often are ) , or had like lines of weakness in it .
As the compression will be greatest along those lines where the resistance to it is least , so the chief amount of the work of compression will be transferred to those lines of fracture or of weakness , and the increase of temperature produced by the greater part of the internal work will cause the parts of the shell about these places to become much hotter than the intervening parts of the oken shell .
What the of the atmosphere upon the unsupported egg-shell here does , .
is done by gravitation of the clust-shell itself , and attraction of the nucleus in the case of 64 .
Another and nearer illustration , indeed an almost parallel case , is presented by the phenomena that actually attend the cooling of large spherical or cylindrical masses of iron .
A moderately sized sphere of cast iron which has been cast in an iron mould so that the exterior becomes rapidly cooled to a rigid state , leaves a central cavity when cold , the last consolidating particles having parted company towards the centre under the constraint of the rigid shell , whose diameter does not diminish so as to accommodate the total contraction .
All very l cylindrical forgings of wrought iron , say of 2 or 3 feet diameter , become " " flawed\ldquo ; as they cool , tearing asunder in greater or less regular diametral and axial planes , as in section , fig. 3 .
The whole mass was at first , say , Fig. 3 .
at a yellow heat and plastic ; the outer coats cool first and most rapidly , and form a rigid arch ( whose thickness we may suppose coveling the still hot , and whose dimensions al.e determined by the volume of the latter which is grasped by the arched shell .
The cooling of the interior proceeds , the heat beinglost through the rigid shell ; and as the shell cannot yield to the radial pull of the contracting nucleus , the diminution in volume of the nucleus is met by its tearing asunder in some one diameter , , and by deformation of the cylinder itself in the orthogonal direction as soon as this rent has been formed .
The exact play and interdependence of these forces , here imperfectly stated , have been fully developed by the wliter in a paper " " On the Coefficients of Elasticity and of Ruptule of Wrought Iron , \amp ; c printed in the 18th volume of the Minutes of Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers , pp. 307-312 , to which he would refer .
The case of a cylinder is ( as regards illustration ) the same as a sphere , as the material of the nucleus is there too viscid to escape endways .
65 .
In the case of a small cylinder or sphere with a relatively very thick and rigid shell , the final contraction of the nucleus is met .
as we see ; by tearing asunder of the nucleus by radial tension , and not by crushing of the material of the covering dome by tangential compression .
But it is obvious that the one the other must result , as the sum of the tensile resistances of the nucleus or that of the compressive resistance of the dome is the greater .
And in a very large globe such as ours , where the active force is gravitative in all its parts , and where transverse section in the plane of any great circle enormously exceeds that of the shell , even if we suppose that some hundreds of miles in thickness , it is obvious that it is the shell that must yield by crushing up , and not the still heated nucleus by pulling asunder , though it is quite possible that in some remote future stage of final refrigeration a diametral rent might occur , or some central cavity be left in the then cold and rigid nucleus itself of our globe .
66 .
The contraction now going on in our globe by its secular refrigeration is met therefore by the complcssion of the colder and more rigid covering shell and crust , and by the crushing of its material along lines or at places or planes of their mutual .
ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
pressures , produced by the gravitating of the shell itself towards the contracting and attracting nucleus beneath it .
The work thus developed is transformed into heat ; that heat is gleatest along those lines or planes or places where the movement and pressure together constituting the work are greatest .
Along or about such places of concentlated compressive and crushing work the temperature may locally rise to a led heat , or even to that of fusion of the rocky materials crushed , and of the pressing together walls themselves adjacent to the - .
This , then , is the writer 's view of the real nature and of volcanic heat as now produced in our globe ; it comes not frorp a free communication with a primordially and still fluid interior ocean , nor from such communication with isolated lakes of liquid rock , which have no probable existence , but is produced below the places where it appears in volcanic vents , or beneath and adjacent to them , by the mechanical energy of the compressed-together shell , as that falls down by gravity upon the contracting nucleus ; and the heat so produced locally is again consumed locally and disposed of by the origination of chemical work and by reconversion into mechanical work , chiefly of ejection .
And thus though volcanic energy as we -see it on our globe is not the direct product of primordial heat of fusion , it is indirectly due to the loss of that heat , being simply one result of the cooling of our globe and of the acknowledged laws of gravitation .
Volcanic energy ( or vulcanicity in general , as comprehending in it earthquakes and other of the so-called plutonic phenomena of geologists ) may therefore be defined , according to the writer 's view , as follows:\mdash ; Definition .
67 .
The heat from which terrestrial volcanic energy is at present derived is produced localy within the solid shell of our globe by mation of th work of compression or of crushing of portions of that shell , which and are themselves produced the more rapid contraction , by cooling , of th hotter material of the nucleus beneath that shell , and the consequent more or less free descent of the shell by gravitation , the vertical work of which is resotved into tangential and motion within the thickness of the shel 68 .
It has been pointed out that in the earlier stage of secular cooling , when the immense contraction was met by deformation of the exterior portions at least of the spheroid , great lines of weakness through sharp curved bendings and fractures were .
All subsequent action has tended to increase the number and extent of these ; and it will proproduction of heat as a consequence of the condensation of gascs or vapours in progress towards hquefaction or solidification has been noticed by Nr .
HBRBERT SPENCEB in his ' Essay on the Ncbular IIypothesis\ldquo ; ( Westminster Review , July 1858 ) .
It need scarcely be remarked that this is ethcr different from the source of volcanic heat here pointed out , nor has the writer 's view been in any way anticipnted by Nr .
NCER .
MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
nstancebal ) denied beologists tvery thing woints txistence ofround thores oacific Ocean .
Beneath adjacent t great sweeping lines of weakness and of broken continuity in the crust of our globe , as , lines we must suppose the rocky materials fractured and broken up , and over large areas and to great depths reduced to discontinuous fragments closely pressed together and gripped in contact .
It is just along and over such places that we find volcanic vents .
Along such planes of weakness , extending to great but unknown depths , the temperature should be highest by the concentration thereabouts of the movements of the compressed crust , as already 72 .
Thirdly , let us suppose the mass to consist of sevel.al beds or Iayers of various MR. ROBERT MALLET ON ENERGY .
169 compressibilities and submitted to the forces and as before ; and , further , suppose .
The greatest amount of work may not be always in the least compressible rock ; for as work is the product of pressure and motion , a soft easily yielding with a range of compressibility may , by the application of a given amount of pressure , the greater amount of work .
74 .
The extent to ich a bed of rock may thus be heated by compression without crushing , .
by pressure far within its elastic limits , may be illustrated by an example .
In the writer 's own experiments on the compressibility of the rocks at Holyhead ( Appendix to Account of the Earthquake Wave-Experiments made there , Phil. Trans. 1862 , vol. clii .
pp. 663-676 ) , he found that certain quartz rocks and certain slate rocks both bore about 12 , .
per square inch before their elastic limits were passed , the total compression at this pressure being for the quartz and only for the slate upon the unit length .
The foot-pounds of work in compressing each to this amount ( from which the rock would recover when released ) , divided by ( JOULE'S equivalent ) , shows that a prism of a foot square and 100 feet long of each rock would develop the following British units of heat : Quartz Slate If consisting of these rocks , therefore , and both compressed by precisely the same force , 12 , .
per square inch , the bed ( fig. 6 ) of quartz would be nearly three times as hot as that , , of slate beneath it , and the former would communicate its heat to the beds both above and below .
75 .
In this we see , then , one very sufficient cause for great inequalities in the rate of increments of hypogeal temperature , which , so far as the writer knows , has escaped notice , and which did not occur to Mr. HOPXINS when ( see his paper , Phil. Trans. vol. cxlvii .
, 1857 , allud.ed to in a previous part of this paper ) he discovered that central heat and difference of conductivity alone were not sufficient to account for the phenomena of increase of heat with depth .
Indeed , as we shall see before concluding , the pertur .
bations of the hypogeal temperature arising thus from intestine pressures and motions within the earth 's solid shell must be far greater than has hitherto been suspected , and may amount to a very large fraction of the hcat received from the nucleus .
The heat thus produced by such intestine work is , so to say , actually generated within that shell , and in amount is dependent not so on how much is received from below as on the amount of contraction of the material of the nucleus , which is , of course , a function of its total loss of heat in all ways .
As the heat thus developed unequally by compression at different depths may vary , we at once obtain an explanation of what has been observed at Dukenfield shaft and elsewhere ( namely , discontinuity in the series of heat increment ) , and perceive how a warmer or a colder couch may be interpolated .
In fact we have a l.eal source of perturbation distinct from difference of conductivity and presence of percolated water , which alone engaged Mr. HOPKINS'S attention .
76 .
But the evolution of heat within the solid shell by the variable compressibility of the superposed formations theleof does not end with the compressions of the material of each or all the beds .
Any two superposed beds , such as and in fig. 6 , exposed to the same compressing force , as they have unequal coefficients of compressibility , must slide upon each other , and so produce frictional and disintegrative work between the sliding surfaces ; this also becomes transformed into heat , and further tends to raise their own temperature and those of adjacent beds .
77 .
Lastly , we must take into account that the tangential forces cannot be always , as we have assumed in ( figs. 4 , 5 , 6 ) , uniform all depths ; for independent of any general law connecting the gravitation of the shell with those tangential forces ( to which we shall presently refer ) , the mere inequality of resistance at various depths , which we have shown , must derange that equality of pressure , and even within certain limits change its direction locally from being strictly tangential into directions more or less oblique , both vertically and horizontally .
Although we know nothing of the constitution or order of the matelials constituting even the solid shell of the globe deeper anywhere than perhaps 70 miles at most , and to perhaps 25 miles by observation and inference , still the discussions of DUROCHER and others warrant our assuming it , to a far greater depth than above , as not differing greatly from the harder crystalline locks of the surface , and indicate that below the stratified deposits , say below 25 miles or so in depth , the material may be presumed , with high probability , to be much more uniform , less shattered , and denser than near the surface .
78 .
If we have thus discovered a true and a sufficient cause for great local elevation of temperature within the solid crust of our globe , it is submitted that we have really discovered the origin and nature of volcanic action , and proved it to be only pal.t of the acknowledged cosmical machinery of our globe , independently of any question as to how hot it was originally , or what length of time may have since elapsed , or what may be its internal temperature now ( save that the interior of the globe is still hotter than the exterior , and that the whole is cooling ) , or whether the nucleus be liquid or solid , or the shell be thicker or thinner .
For , a sufficient source for the high local temperature at some depth below volcanic vents being discoveled , the presence at their foci of water , fresh or salt , completes MR. BOBERT LLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
the whole machinery by which these huge heat-engines work ; and with the two together , all their ascertained phenomena as to ejecta and other products admit of easy explanation .
We shall recur to these and -compare the chief of these phenomena and of plutonic action generally with our cause for the local production of the heat itself , though necessarily briefly .
For volcanic phenomena such as have always been known to us in historic time or by traces left before that , and which are charactelized by a general uniformity of products and mode of action all over the globe , as well as in all time , differing only or mainly in intensity merely , the necessary coexistence of some soulce of high local temperature and of water to form steam is .
It is obyious , therefore , that no such volcanic action as we are now acquainted with can have existed on our globe prior to the deposition upon it of the great masses of superficial watcls its solid materials by capillality and infiltration to vast depths\mdash ; that is to say , not until after the external surface of the globe had permanently fallen to the temperature at which liquid water could deposit and penetlate the earth 's crust ; and this fixes an antel.ior limit in time earlier than which vulcanicity , as we now know it , cannot have existed upon our globe .
79 .
We have no very precise data for fixing this commencement of existing volcanic action in the geologic ] of succession , but it probably does not go back much beyond the end of the Secondary period , if so far .
Prior to that vulcanicity seems chiefly to have been developed in the welling up of huge volumes of liquid rock between seveled masses , or masses of heated dust or so-called ash , and probably in other ways , but without ejecta due to elastic steam , possibly to such occasionally due to gases , but in any case to have been different in its action from the present system , and to have formed but a part of the machinery of folding over and ridge elevation of the earlier stages of cooling and contraction .
[ It is not impossible that volcanic vents , or othel .
sufficient evidences of true volcanic action of the explosive character now in play , may hereaftel .
be discoveled in the older sedimentary formations .
The so-called deposits of ' volcanic ash the trap-dykes and porphyry-bosses of the Silurian rocks of the south of Ireland and of Wales , \amp ; c. , are evidences of igneous action indeed , but of that hydrostatic character which preceded the explosive volcanic action of the present epoch .
Some of the phenomena of explosive action are occasionally observable in igneous formations undoubtedly not volcanic , as the grecnstone or trap-boulders and pebbles found by the writer imbedded in the great eenstone or trap-dyke of Galway Roy .
Irish Acad. , 1834 ) ; but no sufficient evidence exists , so as goes , of any volcano , properly so called , existing in Silurian times , for .
after .
Nor , if the existence sporadically of such were proved , would that contlovclt the writer 's view , that the great system of explosive volcanic vents as now established on our globe does not date back in the nain further t.han aboye stated .
No boundary in time can be assigned .
the passage from the ostatic to the explosive system .
The change was gradual ; and just as the epochs ofland and sea forming by deformation overlapped that of mountain building by crumpling , and that again has overlapped in time our existing epoch of volcanic crushing and explosive action , so did the great epoch of hydrostatic igneous action overlap more or less the commencement of the existing volcanic era .
The more ancient form of igneous action , by which the enormous trap protrusions \amp ; c. were poured forth upon a scale , as lately observed in California , wholly inconsistent with existing volcanic forces , continued in force down to comparatively l.ecent periods , as of the Chalk , and may even yet be going on possibly under the sea .
But two main characCelistic facts remain\mdash ; namely , that the most ancient igneous wolkings were hydrostatic and not explosive , while the existing or volcanic activity ( properly so called ) is explosive and is not hydrostatic ; and , secondly , that upon the whole this last or existing form of neous action ( the explosive ) does not , when viewed largely , date back further than to some part of the Secondary period , and .
that a preponderant amount of it is of still more recent date .
] 80 .
It follows , therefore , that a like machinely of volcanic action to that now existing in our globe cannot have existed in any other planet anterior to its surface having assumed such thermometric conditions as enabled water or some equivalent fluid to become permanent upon its surface .
That temperature be very different from ours as now existing , and was once no doubt far above 21 upon our globe .
But it does not follow indeed , been suggested ) that in a planet or satellite constituted differently from globe volcanic action may not be maintained , for a or shorter time , by actions , or by these and mechanical ones together , of a far different nature from the vulcanicity seen upon our globe\mdash ; such as the evolution of gases from liquid or solid matter at one tempelature and their absorption at othels , as in the case of melted silvel and coppel oxygen , or of the numerous cases of such chemical ctions in compounds discovered by TESSIE DuMoTAy , or in many other imaginable ways .
81 .
The writer is now called upon to show that , assuming the origin for the heat thus produced , which is the moving of the volcano , the conditions such as to prove it to follow from forces real and adequate to the result .
He to do so , and for this it is necessary to show : 1st .
That the of the unsupported or but partially supported solid shell is adequate to crush into powder all the matelials of which it consists , and that no matter how thick the shell may be unless equal to the whole radius .
2nd .
is the total amount of contraction of nlaterials analogous to the rocks of the solid shell , between their tempelatre of fusion or one above it and that of our atmosphere now .
3rd .
What is the mean work unit of Weight and volume necessal.ily expended in .
to powder the rocks of which the solid shell consists , and what is the amount of heat due to the transformation of such work . .
ROBERT UALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
Lastly , we have to compare these results and apply them to the actual phenomena of volcanic action on our globe .
The first of these involves a mathematical investigation only , the last two rest upon two extensive series of experiments which have been made by the writer and are here to be detailed .
82 .
First , then , the unsupported solid shell must crush by its own gravitation and that of the nucleus , if of any solid material known as part of globe .
LAGRANGE , in his ' Traite de Mecanique Analytique , ' cap. iii .
sec. ii .
( statique ) , " " Sir l'equilibre d'une surface flexible \amp ; c. 's edition , , has given , though in an involved form and without proof , a theorem which is applicable to this question .
This theorem has been reduced to simpler form by Professor S. HAUGHTON , F.T.C.D. * , who has applied it to a widely different subject from ours , and to whom the writer is indebted for having had his attention directed to its applicability to the present one .
A proof of the theorem has been since produced by Professor B. S. BALL , of Dublin ( Phil. Mag. vol. xxxix .
pp. 107\amp ; 108 , Feb. 1870 ) .
The theorem may be thus stated:\mdash ; If a cul.ved surface ( of the nature of a hollow shell or membrane ) be in equilibrium when exposed to forces acting normally to the surface everywhere , then the normal pressure at any point is equal to the force in the direction of the face ( or shell ) at that point , multiplied into the sum of the reciprocals of the principal radii of curvature .
The pressure may be internal ( as in a blown bubble ) , producing tensions , 01 may be external ( as in the case before us ) , .
pressures or thrusts in the direction of the surface or to it ; and the surface may be extensible or inextensible , but it is one into the consideration of which cross or shearing strains do not enter .
be and , then , explessed in the theorem , , . . .
the same value .
As ards the prcscnt application of the theol.cm , as the diffcrenccs of and , for our lobe arc very small ( comparable with the erence byeell the polar and * And by Professor NILLER in his -drostatics ' radii ) and scarcely sensibly affect the curvature of the surface within limited areas , we may consider our globe as spherical and , whence equation I. becomes , II .
and .
III .
If the curved surface be very largely elliptical , then the value of given this equation is not quite exact , as may happen in cases of local elevation or depression from local causes ; but we are not here concerned with this further , as we shall view the globe as spherical without sensible error .
Now , to apply this to our case , let us suppose that we have a spherical shell of only one mile thick forming the surface of our globe , that it preserves its form by equilibrium , and that it is wholly unsupported by the nucleus below it , by the attraction of which , in its own weight , it is urged towards the centre of the sphere .
84 .
Let the shell be of the most resistant rocky material which we know of , viz. granite 01 porphyry , crushing at 14 tons per square inch , or a little above 2000 tons per square foot , and of specific gravity , or weighing from 175 to 180 lbs. per cubic foot .
Our results , which only lequire , as for illustration here , to be approximate , will not be materially affected by our assuming the diametel of the globe 8000 miles each of 6000 feet or 1000 fathoms , which will save a mass of figures .
The result will be quite comparable with those we should obtain by taking the sphere at 7920 British statute miles .
Now in equation III .
, the radius above taken our globe , and therefore ; but in the case of the shell of 1 mile thickness , weight in tons of 1 cubic mile of its material , .
of glanite porphyry , which , as a cubic fathom of water weighs vely nearly tons , will be tons per cubic fathom , or tons per cubic mile .
Then tons , the horizontal thrust per squal.e mile , which , divided by the number of square feet in a square mile , , gives as the value of for the square foot tons , which is more than 472 times than the load given for granite or porphyry .
This imple investigation will sufficiently apply to any cubic mile in a like shell , cn if 100 miles ( even more ) in , the val.iation in the force of gravity at that ) the assumed adius of the olobe , being so small that we may here neglect it .
subject may be viewed more intelligibly pel.haps in following .
As is MR. ROBERT ALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
proportionate to , whatever value we take for , a cubic mile of rock in any portion of the self-sustaining shell is exposed to a horizontal thrust upon each of its vertical faces times its own weight .
That on our previous data will be 2000 times its own weight ; but on the same data the clushing load for granite or porphyry being about 2000 tons per square foot , and the of the material .
per cube foot , the modulus of cohesion , or the length of the column in feet of the material that shall crush by its own weight , is miles of feet .
But column of the same material representing the horizontal thrust is 2000 miles , or nearly 480 times the height of the crushing column .
In fact while the materials of the hardest and most coherent lock are crushed at 14 tons square inch , the crushing force is here upwards of 6000 tons per square inch , if the equilibrated shell be , as assumed , wholly unsupported .
It follows , therefore , that if of its total weight from attraction by the nucleus supported by the lattel , or that it were only free to descend by of the total gravitation , the matelials of the shell must still crush .
85 .
If the thickness of such a terrestrial shell be considerable ( as supposed by Mr. HOPKINS ) , the question alises at what depth from the outer surface will the of maximum tangential pressule be found .
[ Let and be the horizontal thrust and the pressure , as well as being now referred to a unit of surface , and the weight of a unit of volume , estimated at the depth at which it is situated , not as brought up to the surface of the globe , the pquation for vertical forces in a sectorial element is being the radius of the globe , and the radius vector from the centre drawn through the unit volume ; whence the condition of equilibrium between and P. Two extreme suppositions as to the sical state of the globe ( or its sectorial ement ) present themselves:\mdash ; lst , that it consists of successive thin dome-like couch es supelposed , each and self-supporting , so as to transmit no pressul.e to those below ; or , 2nd , that no dome-like support exists , but that each transmits to those beneath , as in the case of a liquid .
On the first supposition and ; on the second supposition and and If ( a function of r ) be the density , being the force of gravity at the surface , then gravity at the depth is ' and Thus , for example , let 9 be constant as to depth , then Upon our first supposition and upon the second In the first case at the surface of the globe , decleases with increasing depth , and becomes at the centre .
In the second case at the surface and equals at the centre .
For the above expressions I am indebted to Professor STOICES , Sec , R.S. ] .
Mathematical considelations only would thus indicate that in a thick terrestrial crust , assumed rigid and composed of dome-shaped laminar of superposed rock all of equal density and cohesion , the thrusts tending to produce clushing will be a maximum at the supGlior surface and a minimum at the inferior surface ; but that if composed of loose discontinuous material , or of any material such , in relation to the vast volume of the clust and to the immense , that it can transmit interior pressures in all directions , as a quasi liquid or plastic body , the maximum deforming thrusts will be ' at the inferior SUl.face and nothing at the superiol .
surface .
87 .
So far mathematical investigation serves us ; but it but little ful .
there light upon the question that most interests us here\mdash ; namely , at what fraction of the entire depth of such a thick crust will be found the couch of maximum vulcanicity , that is to say , of greatest wol.k in ushing or deformation .
This depends not only on the depth at which is a but on that at which the couch of maximum resistance t is to be found ; and this lattel .
depends upon the nature of the matel.ials at all depths , as well as ) their state as , the shell of a globe such as ours .
Viewed upon great scale , .
earth 's crust is neither quite ) and dome-likc nor .
ROBERT bIALLET ON ERGY .
yet quite plas , like a viscous liquid , to the movements of which , however , it may much approximate .
The superior surface is the most rigid as to conditions due to temperature , but it is for miles in depth shattered , heterogeneous , and more or less discontinuous ; the resistance , therefore , at the surface is smaller than some considerable depth beneath .
Again , as we must suppose ( to accord with almost any conception we can form of the change produced by hypogeal heat ) that the lower surface of the shell is softer and more viscous than its upper surface , inasmuch as the it passes into a much hotter and liquid nucleus below it , so the thrust ( whatevel its effect may be to sgueeze and distort a more or less compressible viscous mass at the lower surface of the shell and just below it ) must produce its greatest mechanical effect in dislocation and crushing at some point above .
The meal squeeze of a viscous mass , producing compression or distoltion or both , must transformation of work into heat , and so may reduce to a fused liquid state matter before viscous only ; and in so far as this can act in the way of cause , volcanic activity must not be excluded from the local compressive actions , paramount amongst which is their effect in crushing , as being all manifestations of the tangential pressures within the crust to which volcanic action is here ascribed .
88 .
[ It will be lower down from the earth 's sulface as the uppelmost formations are less resistant , and higher above the lower surface where the matelials pass from the solid to the liquid condition as the depth occupied by viscous matter is gleater .
It will also vary with the depth , in so far as the coefficients of density , ridigity , and ultimate cohesion arc themselves affected by depth and pressure .
With a given thickness of solid shell the problem of the depth at which the volcanic couche should be found is at present , therefore , not detellninable , we may make many more or less probable hypotheses as to the constitution of the crust , from which depths for it may be inferred\mdash ; as , for instance , if we assume a celtain depth below the surface at which the material is homogeneous and , and that the coefficient of viscosity decreases to some assigned law a liquid inferior surface until we ascend to the above level .
] In these considerations ( which the writer is quite conscious are vely far from a mathematical investigation of an exact character , or embracing any like the whole of the complicated lelations that are presented in natule ) it is assumed each element of the entire thickness of the shell supports itself , and that value of is not largely affected by the diminution of force of gravity in descending , no attempt being made to follow out the complex conditions that may the crushing has taken place in various conceivable ways . .
The writer 's immediate object heal is limited to that the resolved forces of gravitation are sufficient to produce of the solid terrestlial shell , whethel that be thick or thin , if left partially unsupported by the of a cooling and contlacting nucleus from beneath it ; and this he belieycs he has now done .
90 .
He may be permitted , in corroboration of the general truth of what has been just advanced , to refel .
to an extremely able mcmoir ( which scarcely , if at all , seems to be known to the physical geologists of Great Britain ) by Signor Prof. GIUSEPPE BELLT , of the University of Pavia , entitled " " Pensieli sulla consistenza ecc .
della crosta solida terrestre published in vol. ii .
New Series , of the Journals of the Institute of Lombardy , in 1850 .
In note 1 to p. 6 of the memoir , pp. 3-14 , entitled ' ' Sulla tenza della cl.osta terrestl.e alla compressione Prof. BELLI has given a long and able investigation of very much the same question as we have here considered , and arl.ived at results completely confirmatory , thou by an entirely different path of investigation .
He assumes , on certain o , the solid shell to be lather more than 30 Italian co.eographical miles ( 60,000 metres ) in thickness , that it is subject to its own weight , its density .
taken at to as compaled to water , arising from the attraction of the nucleus , whose density he takes about , which he furthel supposes , though in contact with the intelior of the shell , to offer no lesistance to the descent of the latter through a very small distance ; .
he supposes , as has been done here , the nucleus to away by cooling from the crust above it .
Supposing the whole globe cut by a plane passing through the equator , he investigates the pressure by which glavitation will urge the annular surfaces of the two opposed hemispheres against each other , and arriyes at the conclusion that it would be equal to the of a towel ( tor ) or hollow cylindel of equal in density to the crust and standing upon the annular surface of 30 miles ' width , of 1716 Italian geographical miles in height\mdash ; that is to say , in height equal to about half the radius of the earth .
Whence he shows that no known material could sustain such a ; that were the crust of cast iron it could only support of the .
force to which the gravitation of the whole system exposes it , if of porphyry , if of wrought iron , if of granite , and if of ( marmor ) primary limestone of the whole .
He concludes , , that the solid shell does not support itself as an equilibrated dome , but that , in , it is almost holly supported by the fluid nucleus upon which it floats ; and he then attempts to show that the l.ising of lava in volcanic vents is a consequence of the paltial or unequal sinking of the discontinuous fragments of the shell into the liquid of the nucleus .
It is to be l.egretted that BELLI , after having made so good a commencement , should have been misled by his supposition of a very thin crust and a liquid nucleus into an entirely wrong track , and so come to adopt a view of the mechanism of olcanic action often proposed before him , and which the writer belieyes to be untenable .
It may be desirable to show , howevel .
, that by method we can treat the question of the crushing of the crust from the same point of view as BELLI done , and at substantially a result .
We have shown that , the unit of length of a section of the shell , ; .
ROBERT MALLET VOLCANIC therefore , for the entire equatorial annulus or section of the shell , or ; but as is the weight of the cubic unit of the shell , , the weight of the hemispherical shell , is ; hence ; that is to say , the mutual pressure by gravitation ( under the condition of shell and nucleus ) of two hemispheric shells taken in an equatorial plane is equal to one half the weight of one hemisphere .
91 .
Signor BELLI enters into several subordinate discussions as to the probable modifications of resistance to crushing that may arise in rigid materials when exposed to great compression in all directions , and whether the tendency to crushing will be increased or diminished by the simultaneous action of two orthogonal pressures .
These refinements are not required for our purpose , as we may conclude that no modification of condition of application can ellable a rigid solid to remain coherent under pressures several hundred times greater than will crush between two opposite surfaces a cube of the same material .
92 .
The cube in this case is exposed to pressures on two faces , and is free to yield in four directions at right angles to the pressure and opposite to each other respectively ; but a cube such as the unit-cube of our shell , exposed to pressures simultaneously on four of its faces , is only free to yield in two directions parallel to each other and at right angles to the pressures .
Direct experiments on this point have not , to the writer 's , ever been made ; but certain facts well known to en ineers appear to warrant the conclusion that rigid bodies , such as cast or wrought iron , steel , or bronze , are weakened ( .
the tendency to become broken up is increased ) by the simultaneous application of orthogonal pressures or tensions .
93 .
Thus , for example , the metal of the interior of a discharged cannon is exposed at any point at once to compression radially to the bore and to two orthogonal tensions , longitudinal and circumferential , and it is known that the lesistance of the material thus is less per unit of section than of the same exposed to tension or compression in a single direction only .
94 .
Another question may arise .
If the earth 's solid shell be of very considerable thickness ( as it almost certainly is ) , and if we conceive a cubic unit of it at a depth exposed necessarily to pressures upon all its sides , how is the cube to suffer such deformation as shall admit of .
at all ?
The pressures on the two pairs of opposite and vertical faces are equal and opposite and The lower face of the cube may be free more or less to descend , by further compression of the material far below , whether solid , plastic , or liquid , but the uppermost face of the cube is free to ascend by merely compressing and the column of material above it ; and as we have shown that the value of or must always and enormously exceed that of , which is the vertical pressure , it follows that if varies at different places in the shell , crushing will take place by vertical deformations and very readily .
95 .
Were the shell absolutely homogeneous and isotropic as to its material , still crushing must somewhel.e occur as soon there had leached the limit of cohesion .
But we must , as it appears to the writer , suppose the solid earth shell , however thick , to be eneous , and discontinuous or fissured more or less at every depth , until the commencement of the plastic or viscous couches that intervene between its intelior and the nucleus ( whether that be liquid or only hot and soft lelatively by heat ) shall have been leached .
For the fissuring and shattering of the solidified crust , which began when it was very thin and was far more extensive and intense as it became thicker , and at a certain thickness ( when the thermal equilibrium of the whole system had got more nearly to what it now is ) to decline , must have gone on , reaching continually further in depth as the thickness of the solid crust was increased by accretion to itself of more solidified matter at its infelior surface .
If , then , we admit the highly probable view that the solid crust of the earth at the present time is in all its parts more less eneous , if not in the nature of its materials , at least in the physical or molecular state of these at diffel.ent points , there is no difficulty in admitting any amount of crushing and to be on within it , and such crushing and iissuring must be local and irregular .
96 .
We have thus proved that localized crushing of the rocky material of our earth 's crust must take place ; and it will not be denied that heat must be produced by transformation of the work expended in crushing .
97 .
But two great questions now require to be answered\mdash ; namely , how heat is produced by the crushing of a given weight or volume of rock , and whether the total amount of crushed rock , or of heat due to it , that we can estimate on admissible data as occurin a given time ( a year or 1000 years ) be adequate to account for the volcanic phenomena we witness on our earth 's surface , or estimate as necessary thereto .
The answers to these must be based on expel.iment .
98 .
The work expended in the deformation or disintegration of a solid must all heat or as external work of some sort .
In the case of very inelastic and easily deformed bodies , such as lead , .
HIRN has orie lcanique Chaleur , edit .
part that the heat MR. ROBERT lfALLET ON VOLCANIC .
ENERGY : evolved almost precisely the equivalent of the work expended in deformation .
No experiments ( except those now to be detailed ) have been made , however , so far as the writer knows , upon rigid bodies , such as rocks \amp ; c. , to determine whether this is likewise true of them , although a priori the fact could scarcely be doubted .
99 .
A few experiments were made to ascertain if this was the fact .
A short cylinder of thin iron was lined with hard wood , an iron plunger ( b ) was fitted to the interior , the diameter of which just admitted , without touching at the arrises , a cube of 1 inch on the side .
The cylinder placed on a plate of iron ( f ) had a circularpiece ofmoderatelythick paper gun-wadding dropped into it ; upon this the cube to be crushed was placed ; upon the top of the cube another piece ofgun-wadding , and then , the plunger ( b ) being inserted and made to bear firmly on the matters below it , a known weight was dropped from a known and constant height upon the plunger so as to crush the cube to powder .
The height necessary was fixed by trial , so that very little more work should be employed than was just necessary to crush the cube .
The material operated on was statuary marble , whose specific gravity was and its specific heat .
The apparatus , it will be seen , admitted of rapidly shaking out the powder of the crushed marble into a smalll known weight of water at a known temperatule , from the rise in temperature of which the heat developed in the cl.ushed material was inferred .
The wood to the cylinder and the paper above and below prevented any very sensible loss of heat by conduction .
Eight good experiments were obtained with this little apparatus , the details of which it is needless here to give , as they do not pretend to any great exactness , the papor gunwadding having in cvery instance to be into the watel with the crushed lock , and there being some little loss by conduction to the cylinder , and , indeed , the being on too small a scale .
results , however , showed that , on a mean of the whole , the heat produced was the equivalent of the work expended about of the whole .
100 .
Priol to making these few experiments , the wliter consulted his friend the late Professol , and found that the views of that competent authority reed with his \mdash ; that in the of rigid matelial , such as rock , almost the mechanical work as heat , the extremely small residue of work employed in vibrations of sound ( or analogous to those of sound , perhaps not affecting the ear ) in the apparatus used for in the air around .
Thus , in the most bodies , crushing begins by complession and deformation , howevel small ; the mass then cracks , and then the discontinuous and ular plisms and es soon suddenly and iinally crush to powder .
We hear when it cracks , and work is consumed in the little impulse that oliginates the sound ; but its amount , as compal'ed to the totality MR. ROBEItT bfALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
of the work consumed in the crushing of a solid mass of hard rock to powder , is almost infinitesimally small .
101 .
We may therefore admit that , subject to the inevitable errors of experiment , the whole of the work consumed in crushing matter like rocks reappears as heat , or that in an experimental cube of the rock crushed to powder by a weight , in pounds , descending from a height , in feet , is the number of units of heat developed , being JOULE'S equivalent .
[ The volume and weight of the cube crushed being known , we can deduce the work l.equired to crush a unit in weight ( 1 pound ) and in volume ( 1 cubic foot ) of each rock thus experimented on .
102 .
If , then , ( 1 ) units of heat produced by the work of crushingl cubic foot of rock ( which , assuming the specific heat of water constant with respect to temperature , lepresents the number of degrees Fahr. in a pound of water , or the number of pounds of water raised 1 degree by the work of crushing ) , the weight of 1 cubic foot of water point of maximum density lbs. , and that of ice pounds , ( 2 ) temperature to which 1 cubic foot of water is raised by ; and , taking the heat of liquefaction of ice as 14 Fahr. , ( 3 ) number of cubic feet of ice at melted to water at by H. Also , the total heat of steam of 1 atmosphere being 1146o ( 4 ) number of cubic feet of water at evaporated into steam at ; also ( 5 ) number of cubic feet of water at raised to the boiling-poin Further , if be the weight in pounds per cubic foot , and be the specific heat , temperature or number of rees of heat by which 1 cubic foot of such lock is raised by ; so that , if be the temperature of fusion of any rock , ( 7 ) number of cubic feet of l.ock capable of being melted from temperature by assuming that the specific heat of the rock is constant as respects temperature , and neglecting ( as small and ) its heat of liquefaction* .
] This and the last two colcmns Table I. are modified from what was originally presented to the Society .
] .
ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
103 .
Great numbers of experiments have been made by engineers and architects upon the resistance to crushing forces of various rocks employed in building \amp ; c. , some of which , such as those of GAUTHEY and RONDELET , are of great exactness ; but unfortunately these are nearly all inapplicable to our purpose : because those experiments being made with a view to structural purposes , the recorded crushing-pressure is very commonly taken as that at which the specimen of rock first begins to crack or give way ; ( 2 ) because no reliable record is found of the height which the surface producing the crushing-pressure has descended between its level of first application and that of the mass of powder produced , so that we have an unreliable and always too small value for , and none at all for ; ( 3 ) the experiments recorded have been generally made on very small specimens ( cubes of 1 centimetre or of 1 inch on the edge ) , and of rocks the characters of which are imperfectly handed down .
104 .
It was therefore necessary to institute a completely new and independent series of experiments , and upon as large a scale as that for which competent apparatus could be procured .
The rocks to be experimented upon being reduced by the marble mason or lapidary 's tools to exact cubes , or parallelopipeds as nearly cubes as possible , it is obvious that experiments for determining the work of clushing may be conducted either , as in the writer 's preliminary ones , by the free descent of a weight just enough to crush , or by the steady increase of a load until the crushing in each case has occurred .
The latter is greatly to be preferred , not only as avoiding some conceivable sources of error in crushing by impact , but for the convenience afforded by the increase of a steady pressure up to crushing when operating upon a large variety of different rocks .
105 .
Through the obliging kindness and zeal for science of JOHN , Esq. , Engineer , and by permission of the Directors of the London and North-Western Railway , the writer had fitted for his purpose , and placed with a staff of men at his disposal , magnificent machine constructed from Mr. RAMSBOTTOM'S design for the locomotive works at Crewe ; and not only to those gentlemen , but to W. M. MOORSOM , C.E. , of the same works , are his best thanks due for the very efficient assistance in every way afforded him .
106 .
The testing-machine at Crewe thus employed consists of a large iron balanced lever , as seen in Plate IX .
, so constlucted that it can be applied to com- pression , tension , or torsion , the load being produced by the flow of watel into an iron cylindric vessel suspended to the long of the lever , the weight of hich at known npel atures is interred by an index at each instant .
This simple form of testingmachine possesses great advantages in accuracy and certainty , as to the load actually visited upon the object , over any of the complex machines in which the of the load or its registration is conducted through a series of connected levers .
By shifting the fulcrum the lever could be altered in power at pleasure from 10 : 1 to 20 : 1 , and its own could be balanced so as , if desired , to form no part of the load visited on the specimen .
The strength of the parts is sufficient to admit of a crushing-strain of SO or 90 tons with safety .
The largest size was chosen the cubes of stones to be crushed that this limit would with safety allow .
A cast-iron or frame , shown in Plate IX .
fig. 2 , was prepared to leceive each cube when exposed to pressure , which was applied by a cylindrical steel plunger moving freely in a deep cylindrical hole bored in the upper part .
The lower part of the cage consisted of a flat steel plate upon which the cube of stone was placed , when the lower end or opposite face of the applied itself to the top of the cube .
Thus the pressure upon the cube was preserved rigidly in the one vertical direction , whatever might be the motion ( through a small arc ) of the bearing edge of the lever itself upon the summit of the plunger .
A small hydraulic press fixed between the fulcrum of the lever and this cage enabled the lever ( and load if required ) to be raised off from the head of the plunger at any time , and also enabled the cube about to be crushed to be conveniently placed between the faces of the crushing-cage without shock or any pressure acting upon it , except the small weight of the plunger itself ; after which , by letting the water slowly out of the hydraulic-press cylinder , the bearing edge of the lever was ought gently and without jar or shock upon the head of the plunge .er , and the successive inclements of load thereon then proceeded with .
The crushing-cage admitted of very precise measurements of the vertical distance between the clushing faces .
that of the plunger and of the plate on which the cube was placed ) at any instant .
Those distances from the commencement to the conclusion of each experiment were measured with great exactness by means of ' ' distance callipers with multiplying arms ( on the same principle as " " proportional compasses increasing the indication tenfold , and provided with graduated arcs and verniers made by BECK :R ( now ELLIOTT Brothers ) , the indications being controlled by ordinary beam-calliper measurements read off from .
a steel diagonal scale .
These measurements admitted of being made within less than of an inch .
107 .
The following selection of rocks was made as tolerably well representing lithoically the whole selies in depth of the earth 's known crust from the least to the most rigid and cohercllt formations , viz. :\mdash ; iRocfis eimented on .
1 .
Oolite.\mdash ; Caen and Normandy .
2 .
Oolite.\mdash ; Portland stone .
3 .
Dolomite .
nesian limestone , kshire .
4 .
Sandstone.\mdash ; Bradford , Yorkshire .
5 .
Sandstone.\mdash ; Ayre JIill , Yorkshire fine .
6 .
Sandstone.\mdash ; Bramley Fall ( hard millstone-grit ) .
7 .
Carboniferous stone.\mdash ; Devon marble .
8 .
Cambro-Silurian.\mdash ; Conway slate ( North tVales ) .
9 .
Cambro-Silurian.\mdash ; Bangor slate ( North Wales ) .
10 .
Basalt oreenstone ) owley P , Staffordshire .
11 .
Red granite.\mdash ; Daltmoor , Devon .
12 .
Grey nite .
Guernsey .
1IB .
EOBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
13 .
Syenite.\mdash ; Mount Sorrel , Leicestershire .
14 .
Blue granite.\mdash ; Aberdeenshire .
15 .
Grey granite.\mdash ; Aberdeenshire .
16 .
Porphyry.\mdash ; Furnace Quarry , Inverary , Scotland .
108 .
Of each of these sixteen species of rock , half a dozen cubes , each as neally as possible inch on the edge , were prepared .
Each set of cubes was roughed out from the same selected block of stone , and brought to the exact cubic form and size by grinding by Messrs. FIELD and Co. , of YVestminster , by whose care , with the help of their fine stoncworking machinery , the work was done in a very excellent manner .
A larger-sized cube than inch on the edge could scarcely have been employed , as respects the harder rocks , with safety to the testing-machine ; , it is belieYed that no series of experiments on rocks has previously been conducted on cubes so large .
109 .
The cubes could not be produced of the same dimensions ; but all were accurately measured before crushing by the instruments described , and the results reduced to a common standard .
110 .
The most scrupulous care , however , was taken to secure two opposite faces in each cube rigidly palallel to each other , so as to avoid unequal bealing when .
crushed ; and this result was fully attained by the whole of the cubes down upon a flat metallic plate , and grinding off the uppermost faces simultaneously by another like plate , and then reversing the cubes and cementing them down again by the last ground face , repeating the process .
The iments were conducted at Crewe works in 1870 , .
MOOBSOXr , C.E. , assisting at all of them .
Three good experiments were obtained for each description of rock , in some instances more .
111 .
Each experiment was conducted in the following manner:\mdash ; The -lever raised by the hydraulic press , , -ph.mger was ised , by a small hand lever of wood , from the base-plate of the sufficiently to admit of placing the cube .
The cube was then placed on the base-plate ally , or with its centre of thy under the axis of the plunger .
A square piece of the thinnest and most pressed letter-paper placed upon the top and bottom faces of the cube , the size of the squares of less than the edge of the cube , so as to allow a free margin of inch all round cac11 of these faces , the object being by this very thin film of more compressible to neutralize any residual departure from absolute parallelism between the lowel .
faces , and so secure perfect uniformity of bearing , a method which was found to succeed perfectly .
112 .
The cube being in place , the plunger was gently and without shock l upon it ; and in like manner the lever itself , by aid of the hydraulic prcss , } cd so as to bear upon the head of the plunger .
The of the uuloaded eycr 1 then ) mitted to bear as a load upon the plunger , and through that upon the cube .
This gave an initial pressure ( which was varied according as the species of stone was harder or softer ) of a few hundred pounds , usually about at the rate of .
per square inch , by which all parts of the testing-lever and the crushing faces with the cube were brought into perfect contact and bearing .
113 .
The dimensions of the cube having been accurately measured and noted before putting it into the crushing-cage , the altitude of the cube , or rather the exact distance between the crushing faces , was then taken .
From the thinness of the papers on the top and bottom faces and the compression of these , this distance did not differ from the true vertical height of the cube by of an inch .
114 .
Water was now admitted in a small stream to the load bucket ; and as each 1000 pounds of load was attained , the flow was stopped and the amount of compression of the cube taken by measurement between the crushing faces , as already described .
The loading was thus continued until the first symptoms of disintegration were noticed in the cube , almost always showing itself by one or more extremely minute cracks in nearly veltical planes , or by a few fragments of powder detaching themselves from the sides .
At this stage the loading was stopped and the compression noted .
The loading was then continued slowlyuntil the cube finally gaveway , down before the descending plunger into absolute powder , which remained impacted together as a flat cake beneath the plunger , hindering its there descent .
115 .
The vertical distance between the face of the plunger and that of the base-plate which , deducted from inch , would have given the descent of the plunger .
117 .
But the cubes were not all quite equal in volume , and the whole of the powder produced did not always remain impacted under the plunger , but some was thrown to a little distance .
Hence it was necessary to measure in each case , to obtain the actual descent .
In a few cases , with the more and elastic rocks , just the final crush down , the cube split off one or mole comparatively lal.ge undisintegrated fragments , which were thrown out laterally and escaped further action .
Whenevel .
any such ents occurred means wel.e adopted for their collection and preservation ; and in such cases a correction has been applied to the result of the crushing based on this allowable assumption , that the expended upon crushing that portion of the entire cube which was .
ROBFRT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
reduced to powder is to that which would have been necessary to reduce the entire cube to powder as the weight of the crushed part to the weight of the entire ; so that the weight of those large uncrushed fragments having been ascertained subsequently , this correction was applied .
118 .
As the total descent of the plunger is in all cases small , less than inch , the acceleration of its descent is not considerable , the rather as by the construction of the testing-machine a celtain proportion of the crushing-pressure was relieved from the lever as soon as the plunger began to descend considerably , so that for the remaindcr of the descent the plunger was ulged principally by the of the heayy end of the large lever above it .
Moleover , as each cube broke up at first int ' irlegulal prisms and wedge-shaped pieces closely adjacent to each other , which aftelwards down rapidly to powder , so the resistance to the was not far from constant its descent .
In this man.ner the entire series was gone through , only varied by very caleful off of the weight of the lever itself in the case of the vely fi.iable locks , such as the Oolites .
119 .
The final pressure at the moment of clushing gives the value , and the descent the plunger , subject to the correction described , that of in preceding equation .
120 .
In all the harder rocks , notwithstanding the close contact of the large mass ofmetal in the plunger and base-plate , the heat produced by the crushing down was easily ceptible by the hand , and was so great in the case of some of the and porphyries as to heat the plunger and base so much as to oblige a delay to let them cool to the same temperature as , and as they were at in all the experiments , .
about Had it been acticable to exclude the daylight , there can be little doubt but that a flash of light would have been found to attend each such 121 .
The results , both immediate 01 , and those deduced from this labolious train of experiments , are comprised in the Table , No. I. The specific vities , column 3 in this Table , were obtained by the writer by weighing one of the spale cubes of each rock , first in air and then in water contained in a thin cylindrical glass jar with a ground circular glass covel .
, the weight of which , as also of its contcnts of distilled water at Fahr. , was known .
This method , which is very much apid than the usually prescribed methods , is to be commended for all specific gravitics of solids heavier than vater .
122 .
The specific heats of these several rocks ( column ) obtained by the method of mixtures operating also upon these cubes , which vere heated in boiling water , and then immersed in distilled water at temperaturcs of to Fahr. , applying the usual Tections for the glass vessel containing the fluid , the thermometer , \amp ; c. So few specific heats ve previously been determined for rocks that these may be found to possess some general interest .
123 .
In column 8 and column 10 are given the mean loads per square inch hich the first signs of disintegration and at which the final crushing to occurred , erences abtainableMR ROBERT MALLET OOLCANIC EERGYThese v different classes of rock .
If , however , we take a mean of the pressures at which first disintegration occurred , and of the differences between those and the pressures of complete crushing , we shall find that , or about added to the pressure of first disintegration , gives that of final crushing to powder\mdash ; a result of some interest to the engineer and architect , and one which enables us in some degree to compare our results with the largest and most accul.ate series of experiments that the writer believes had previously been made on the resistance to crushing of rocks .
124 .
He refers to those of Mr. GEORGE VILKINSON , Architect , given in his work ' On the Practical Geology and Ancient Architecture of Ireland ' ( Murray , 1845 ) , which were conducted by that gentleman upon almost the entire series of the rocks of Ireland from the highest to the lowest .
The reliability of these experiments is known to the writer , as he himself devised and constructed the lever-apparatus by which they were performed ; and the experiments were made in the works of the writer 's late firm by .
As Mr. WILKINSON'S object was to obtain constructive data only , the crushing-pressules recorded are seldom those at which the specimen ( which in every case was 1 cubic inch in size ) was reduced to powder , but that at which it was disintegrated only , and hence the results , as regards our point of view , here too low .
If , however , we add to the mean of each class one-fourth part , we shall approximate to results more nearly comparable with those we have here obtained .
The ving Table gives highest , lowest , and average esults , together with the number of different quarries and total number of experiments from which each average was ascertained .
This summary has been made by the writer , and is not to be found in work .
The granites of genel.ally are very friable .
125 .
It may be interesting to add the .
volcanic rocks on the authority of Course de uction '):\mdash ; Ancicnt luv-a stone of 28,446 lbs. per squal.c inch .
( date not given ) 8,392 Granitoid ( oche ) 21,072 B. ROBERT IIALLEI -OLCANIC ENERGY .
126 .
Cast steel in small blocks ( according to FAIRBAIRN ) may stand without crushing 120 , , or above 120 tons per square inch , or about four or five times the crushingweight of the hardest known rocks .
127 .
In column 24 of our Table the mean total work infoot-pounds expended in crushing each sort of rock is given , and in column 25 the ounds of work needed to crush 1 pound cubic foot of each sort of rock are given .
Then in column 26 this is , by our formula , reduced to units of heat for the pound and for the cubic foot of rock ; and dividing these by the specific heats riven in column 27 and by the per cubic foot in column 4 , we find the tempelatul in equal volume of rock ; and in column 29 we obtain the number of cubic feet of water at Fahr. that can be converted into steam ofl atmosphere , or Fahr. , by the heat evolved by the crushing of 1 cubic foot of each class of rock .
Lastly , in column 30 we have the cubic feet of ice at melted to water at by the heat due to the crushing of 1 cubic foot of each of the sixtcen typical classes of rock .
128 .
These coefficients of heat and CruS n-wol for each class of rock may be together in various ways , so as to obtain coefficients groups of rock or forma- tions each other in depth .
Let us endeavour to obtain such a mean coefficient for the entire depth of the solid crust of the ' of 100 miles in thickness .
129 .
The following Table of the probable depths of the formations of our earth 's cl.ust has been given by Professor S. Geological Manual , Neozoic Palaeozoic Older aeozoic .
milcs .
Tertiaryto Triassic Pelmtoian Devoninn and Lowel Upper S2 4 Total depth miles , or lather more than 20 miles .
130 .
Assume the first 100 miles in depth of the earth 's crust to consist of 20 miles of the above ( which are all of about equal respective depth ) and of 80 miles beneath of crystalline l.ocks , and of unknown acid and basic magmas , crystalline or not , of a nature analogous to our most rigid crystalline rocks .
We may group the rocks of our Table I. into the newer , or Nos. 1 to 9 .
from the Oolites to the Silurian slates ) , and the older , from Nos. 10 to 16 ( or from metamorphic to granites \amp ; c The mean coefficient from the first is 2449o , and from the second ; and the last may be taken to represent all below the azoic rocks ; we therefore have 20 miles in depth at 2449o and 80 miles in depth at 5650o , which gives a mean coefficient for the entire depth of 131 .
This is , however , certainly below the truth ; the Devonian limestone and NorthWales slates ( Nos. 7 , 8 , and 9 have coefficients almost or quite as high as several of the granites and quartz rock of Holyhead , as deduced from my experiments on its crushing , Philosophical Transactions , 1862 ) have a coefficient exceeding 5316o , or equal to granite ( see Appendix ) , and constitute much of the deepest 5 miles of our entire 20 miles of known rock ; and there is to be found no doubt a large increase of metamorphic rocks of the Rowley Rag ( No. 10 ) class at the lower part of the known series .
It ill be a better approximation to group together all the rocks in our Table I. except Nos. 10 , 12 , and 16 , which have the largest coefficients , and take the mean of these for the coefficient of the known or stlatified rocks , and the mean of , 12 , and 16 for that of all the crystalline other ocks beneath .
shall then have the mean for Nos. 10 , 12 , and , and for Nos. 10 , 12 , and , or for the whole depth 20 miles at 4110o , 80 miles at giving a mean for the entire depth of per cubic foot of l.ock .
132 .
mean specific heat obtained in the same way from those given in column 27 gives for the average of the whole 100 miles depth of shell ; and from the specific gravities given in column 3 we deduce a mean for all the rocks experimented on of 2627 .
Taking that as the mean for 20 miles in depth , and assuming 2900 specific gl.avity for the 80 miles of denser rocks beneath , we obtain a mean specific gravity for the whole 100 miles of crust of 2842 .
133 .
Whence we have the numerical results : ( 1 ) British units cubic foot of crushed mean rock .
( 2 ) temperature to which 1 cubic foot of vater at zero is raised by H. ( 3 ) cubic feet of ice at melted to watel at MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
( 4 ) cubic feet of water at evaporated into steam at ; or if the water be already at cubic feet evaporated into steam of 1 atmosphere .
( 5 ) deglees of temperature by which 1 cubic foot of mean rock is raised by H. Taking Fahr. as the fusing temperature of such rock , ( 6 ) number of cubic feet of mean rock at zero fused by H. If the rock be previously at Fahr. , then cubic feet of rock so fused ; and if the rock at 30 be only heated to Fahr. , or to a bright red heat ( the melting-point of silver ) , cubic feet of lock so heated by H. 134 .
From ( 3 ) it follows that the heat ofliquefaction ofl cubic mile of ice at melted is equivalent to the work of cubic mile of mean lock when transformed into heat .
135 .
We have now to describe the second series of experiments , .
those for the determination of the total amount of contraction of mineral masses analogous to those hich we may suppose constitute the solid shell and probably the greater portion of our globe , upon cooling from their temperatures of fusion , or above that by known amounts , down to that of the mean of our atmosphere .
The experiments or observations that have heretofore been made on the subject are of the most unsatisfactory character , and contain such elements of as to bc tyholly unreliable . .
on the total action of fused basalt , trachyte , and ranite , \amp ; c. ( originallylecorded in LEONIIARD and Neucs buch f vol. for 1841 , p. \amp ; c. , and vol. for 1843 , pp. 1-54 , the last containing the details of expeliments by himself ) have been accepted merely on authol.ity , and quoted by authors in book after book appal.ently without the details of the methods of experiment having been consulted in the original ofessor 1 ( THOIISON and TATE , Not .
Phil. p. 725 ) says , experiments , upon the validity of which , so far as I am aware , no doubt has ever been thrown , show that mclted slate , and trachyte all contract by something like 20 per cent. \ldquo ; proceeds to base on this erroneous coefficient a probable cause for volcanoes and eal.thquakes ( pp. 725-727 ) .
He can scarcely have looked at own statements , or their insecure foundations would not have escaped his acute mind .
BISCHOFF'S experiments were conducted by two methods .
In one he fused the l.ock in clay crucibles holding only a few pounds , determined the capacity of the empty crucible by the weight of its contents in mercury , and the volume of the unfused rock by its specific gravity and weighing .
He then fused the rock , and to obtain its volume when liquid he dipped the depth of the surface below the brim of the crucible by means of a graduated iron wire , and then permitted the whole to cool .
He then filled up over the surface of the solidified rock with mercury until the iron dipping-wire touched the liquid ; the weight of this mercury he infers the volume of the contraction ; and filling now the whole vacuity of the clucible with mercury , he obtains , by weighing and deduction of these latter volumes of mercury from that which the empty crucible ] contained , the volumes of the rock when fused and when cold .
Substantially this is BISCHOFF'S method ; though for all his steps and apparent precautions his original lengthy memoir must be consulted .
Now it scalcely needs to be shown at any length that reliable results by this complex and indirect method are perfectly impossible , even were not one condition which really vitiates the whole found to be entirely disregarded .
He was obliged to use mercury because his crucibles absorbed water ; but the strong capillarity of merculy and its high specific gl.avity could not fail to introduce great errols in the deduction from its weight in such very limited volumes .
The supposed expansion of the crucible and argement of its capacity when heated was taken by endeavouring to measure the internal diameter of its brim when cold and when containing the liquid rock , and it is assumed the expansion affected all parts of the crucible alike , so that its capacity , in fact , was proportionate to the cube of this one imperfectly measured dimension .
But this cannot be true , from what we know of the changes of form of pottery in baking , even were all parts of the crucible heated alike .
But what of the contraction of the crucible , in common with all other earthenware , by , which depends not only on the temperature to which it is raised , but on the time of its exposure to the heat ?
Of this which is celtain to have largely affected had reached quite across it was assumed ( upon the most manifestly insufficient .
ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
grolmds ) that a solidified shell equal in thickness to half the diameter of the neck , or to ' had formed all round the interior of the globe , so that at that moment was the diameter of the still liquid ball of fused rock within this crust .
Cavities were formed within this by the final cooling and consolidation of the whole , which BISCHOFF supposes l.epresent its total contraction .
If , he says , the of the liquid rock running into the sphere were exactly known , with the weight of the whole ball and that of a l ) and the specific gravity of the whole , we should have enough to determine the total contraction .
As it is he applies to his assumed ball the unreliable coefficient of contraction deduced his clucible experiments , and so arrives at a result .
In one instance , at least , even this result is further vitiated by an extl'aordinaly oversight .
His calculation is thus : Diameter of the sphele inches .
Thickness of the crust or or 2 inches .
Diameter of the liquid ball inches inches ; average inches .
Cubic content of this ball cubic inches .
Contraction ( the coefficient of the crucibleexpel.iment ) cubic inches .
Now on own data the calculation is as follows:\mdash ; Diameter , as , 21 inches .
Diameter of liquid ball a ( or 2 inches ) or 4 inches , avelage 1 or 18 inches , or mean inches .
Cubic content of ball of that diameter cubic inches .
Contraction cubic inches .
136 .
Mr. DAVID FORBES ( ' Chemical News ' for October ) has noticed , not in any detail , the general unreliability of BISCIIOFF'S results .
Hc , , endeavours to substitute for these deductions of his own from expeliments still more fallacious , in suppolt of his notion that the acid or basic silicates of which our earth 's rocks consist scarcely contract at all in passing from the liquid to the solid state .
137 .
His facts are derived from the supposed dimensions of fused Rowley stone ( basalt ) in the liquid state , and when solidified after been cast into moulds at Messrs. CHANCE'S glass-works to thin patcnt artificial stonc , and from melted cast by himself into cast-iron ingot moulds of moderate capacity .
As regards the first , the moulds into which the fused rock was cast wele folmed of what founders call ' ' dry sand .
loamy sand , in which the impression of a wood " " pattern\ldquo ; or model is made , the moulds being then and heated to likc a red heat , at which temperature the liquid rock is into them to fill the cayity .
Measurements of the wood ' ' patteln , \ldquo ; " " often of some feet in length and of the solidified counterpart in fused rock cast from it , according to Messrs. CHANCE'S statement , proved them to be precisely the same size , from which it is inferred that there was no contraction at all in the rock by cooling .
Now this is exactly the same mistake that has been made by Dr. in his ' Metallurgy of Iron , ' where he infers the coefficient of total contlaction of cast iron from the difference between the size of the wood pattern which the casting is made and the casting itself .
In both these cases the pattern , in order to be extracted from the damp\ldquo ; rammed up\ldquo ; sand , has to be\ldquo ; l.apped\ldquo ; by the xvorkman\mdash ; that is to say , he strikes the pattern in all dil.ections so as to make the cavity in the sand bigger than the size of the pattern , the difference for clearance to enable the withdrawal of the pattern .
If the sand mould be then dried and heated to something like ledness , it will by expansion ( on the whole , for thel.e may be some little contraction at first on drying ) cause the cavity of the mould to become still larger , and it is at this temperatule that it receives the liquid Hence the equality in size between the wood pattern and the again solidified rock , even if the fact , does not prove that there was contraction , but that the amount of contraction was equal to the enlargement of the cavity of the mould , equal to the bulk of the pattern by the " " clearance\ldquo ; iven to the latter by\ldquo ; rapping\ldquo ; and by the further enlaygement of the mould itself by heating ; and as neither the volume of the earance ( which is never the same in any two cases ) nor the enlargement by sion ( which may vary with the quality of the materials of the mould at different times , as well as with the temperature ) arc known , so no conclusion whatever can be drawn from those data as quoted from Messrs. CHANCE .
138 .
Then as to Mr. FORBES'S own results , we surely cannot lely upon measurements made upon blocks of slag cast into iron ingot moulds of only 10 inches long , 6 inches vide , and 6 inches deep cubic inches .
The contractions stated to be thus deduced at Eidfors Iron Works , Norway , of the slag ( blast-furnace no doubt ) , which were from to 3 per cent. ( wide limits , the largest of which must yet be within the of these experiments ) , cannot be relied upon when we are left in the dark as to the tempel.atul.e of the moulds , and therefore their actual size at the moment of consolidation , or whether any and what final cavities formed inside the solidified mass , and take into account the impossibility of measuring with any great exactness the true dimensions of such a small and even not l.ectangular block of slag with necessarily always a more or less rough and uneven sul.face .
139 .
Mr. FORBLS'S further expeliments on basic slags from dshire blast-furnaces , " " cast into sand moulds are vitiated through just the same reasons as those on the Rowley Rag .
140 .
Lastly , Ir .
FORBES adduces some measurements made at Birmingham on blocks of cast lass cast in iron moulds , which eithel .
showed almost no contraction or ( according MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
to Dr. LLOYD , of the Park Glass-Works ) one of only lineal , on blocks the largest of which was but 40 lbs. weight , and not rectangular in form , being lenses in fact .
We shall see further on what reliability there is in these last .
141 .
A few experiments on the expansion of rocks at high temperatures , but far below the fusing-points , by B. W. Fox , recorded } the Philosophical Magazine for 1832 ( 3rd ser. vol. .
p. 338 ) .
Granite increased in bulk at a dull red heat by from to porphyritic felspar ( from an " " elvan course the same ; clay-slate mented in size , in the direction of the cleavage , to , by redness scarcely visible in the dark , and stone .
The whole of these statements look unleliable , and it is not clear whether hc means cubic or lineal dilatation .
142 .
BISCHOFF'S final results have been summarized by Mr. FORBES as follows:\mdash ; Volume wheninfusion .
Basalt Trachyte .
1000 Granite Volume Volume when when cooled cooled in the as glass .
crystallized state .
so that the last is taken to suffer a contraction of about one of its liquid volume !
The distinction made between the glassy and the crystalline states is , in this case at least , to a great extent arbitrary ; for all mixed silicates which crystallize sejregate in cooling into crystallized bodies which float in a surrounding glassy that neyel crystallizes ( unless perhaps when itrified by long heating ) , and it depends upon the relative proportions of the two , and upon the rate and other conditions of cooling , whether the intermingled clystals shall cver coalesce or the entire mass ever assume a clystalline state .
Beyond the experiments now noticed , the writel is not awale of auy others high temperatures , although we possess some good and reliable data as to the expansion of some stony bodies at temperatures not much .
the -point of watel 143 .
The writer therefore found it necessary to institute experiments himself as to the total contraction between liquid fusion above it and solidification of such bodics as might replesent tolerably closely in chemical and physical qualities the basic ttnd the acid silicates of the natural rocks we are acquainted with .
The blast-furnace slags of the Barl.ow seemed to approach pretty nearly the former , and British plate-glass the latter .
144 .
The writer has to thank Mr. T. F. IITH , the enabling to conduct his experiments at the Barrow Vorks near ness Abbcy , Cumberland ) , and Mr. MURDOCK , of the same lVorks , for aid in calrying them out .
145 .
At those Works red haematite only is smelted by coke fuel , with a pure limestone as the sole flux , in blast-furnaces of the V0l.y largest class , urged by blast at a temperature of to 90 Fahr. The slag when the furnaccs are making fine grey pig iron ( for the production of Bessemer stcel ) was that chosen for experiment .
It is usually of a light fawn coIour , or of various shades of yellowish or bluish light grey .
The following are typical analyses of those slags:\mdash ; A. B. C. Silica : Alumina Lime nesia . . . . .
anese protoxide trace Iron protoxide Potash .
Soda . . . .
Sulphide calcium Phosphoric acid .
, , All these analyses show an excess from oxidation of the iron and manganese in the process .
The limestone used as flux contains about 97 cent. carbonate oflime , with about 2 per cent. of silica , alumina , magnesia , and protoxide of iron , so that the greater proportion of these last found in the slag were contained in the haematite ores .
146 .
If we compale these analyses with the following of basalts \amp ; c. , it will be seen that these in composition approach them closely:\mdash ; Basalts . .
B. Silica Alumina Ilon oxide fagnesia Lime Soda . . .
Potash A and are the extremes of 11 analyses of val.ious basalts , and is the normal basalt of BUNSEN , from a mean of many analyses ( Blum 's Handbuch der \amp ; c. , pp. .
147 .
The difficulties in the way of obtaining any l.eliable measure of tot al contraction of fused rocks are undoubtedly great .
Consideration , to .
nature , and some preliminary expeliments , caused the writer to conclude that the only method for approach to exactness was to operate upon very large volumes so as to uish m errors of experiment , in such a manner that the volume of the fused l.ock could be directly jasured , as well as its volume after solidification .
148 .
Three very large and thick hollow cast-iron cones , open at both ends ( used at .
BOBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
'197 Barrow for Bessemer steel ingot-moulds ) , were employed as receptacles and measures for the liquid slag .
The form of these and their dimensions are shown in Plate IX .
fig. 4 .
Flat cast-iron base-plates wele provided for these , so that when standing thereon with the wider end of the cone downwards it formed a close vessel , with its mouth or top free .
In the same veltical line one side of one of these cones were bored partly its thickness the holes , at toP , mid height , and bottom , sloping downwards , to contain mercury or water , in which to inselt a thermometer to ascertain the temperature of the mass of iron in the cone itself , the thickness of which , as seen by Plate IX .
fig. 4 , is great .
The content of any one of these cones exceeds 8000 cubic inches , or above cubic feet .
149 .
At successive periods each of these cones was fixed pelfectly upright upon its baseplate , the latter being upon a secure and level foundation , and placed close to one of the blast-furnaces , and conyeniently posited so that the could be run ectly from tho furnace into the cone , with arrangements whereby the of slag could be instantly stopped upon the cone being filled .
The cone being at the temperature of the atmosphere at the place , about was then run up full ofliquid slag , the run being stopped without difficulty precisely as the slag reached the level of the top or brim of the cone .
The slag in every case ran as liquid as very hot cast iron , and a pure unbroken and flat sulface on the top of the cone , with a slight rounded edge due to capillarity all round the ircle .
Means were taken that the stream of slag should come pure and unmixed with scoriae \amp ; c. from the centre of the volume at the time contained in the furnace , which was for a short time previously " " dammed up \ldquo ; to admit of its accumulation .
150 .
The so filled in continued for some time liquid ; its top surface rapidly commenced to descend below the brim of the cone as the liquid to lose heat by conduction to the mass of iron in the cone , and so to contract and the cone itself to Very soon , however , a solidified crust began to form over the top , the thickness of which was judged of by its resistance to penetration with a pointed steel rod , and vely soon after the before flat and level crust commenced to get hollow concave towalds the centre .
This announced .
a self-supporting clust had then formed also all round the cone , whose , however , was still liquid .
This therefore marked the moment at which the true dimensions of the cone itself must be known , as giving the true volume of the .
when at its surfaces .
The dimensions of the cast-iron cones having been taken with accuracy when cold , .
at , and Fahr. respectively , we only need the temperature of the cone of cast iron to fix its capacity at the instant of incipient consolidation of the slag within it .
151 .
The cones run up full of slag as rapidly as possible , time of complete , being from 4 to 8 minutes from commencement .
By separate experiments it was ascertained that water boiled in all three of the holes in the cone in 7 minutes after the commencement of filling , which may be taken as the time in which the mass of iron in the cone had reached 21 Fahr. It was also found that the firm surrounding solid crust had formed in 22 minutes ( average ) , and that consolidation commenced in about 20 minutes from commencement of filling .
As the difference between the temperature of the iron cone and of the slag was very great during the whole of this time , we may admit that the increments of heat imparted to the cone were equal for equal intervals of time , and the cone gained ( or from to 212 in these experiments ) in 7 minutes .
152 .
Hence , as 7 : the temperature of the cone at the period of consolidation of the firm crust may be taken at Fahr. But as the interior of the cone was hotter than the outside , and so exercised an .
effect upon the outer portions , we must increase that number somewhat , and may estimate it at 45 Fahr. .
The coefficient of expansion of cast iron , as given by LAVOISIER and RAY ( mean of both ) is for 1o Fahr. , or for 45 ; and this is the coefficient of expansion which , applied to the dimensions of the cold cones , give those at , as in col .
3 , able II .
, which are those that fix the volume of the at the time of its first consolidation .
154 .
The temperature of the liquid slag on entering the cone ( sensibly the same as in the blast-furnace ) was considerably above its fusing-point .
It has been stated that the level of the top of the slag in the cone sunk rapidly , parallel to itself , and then , directly after a thin crust had formed , began to become concave .
At this moment the mean depth of the top of the below the brim of the cone was taken by measurement .
As the altitude of these cones is between four and five times the diameter of the brim , these measulements in dejpth afford very accurate detelminations of volume , and it was found to average for the three experiments 130 cubic inches ; and as 8160 is the mean capacity of the cones as taken cold , corrected for temperature , it follows that , taking the volume of the liquid slag as filled into the cones at some temperatule above its fusing-point at 1000 , the volume at its inceptiye setting-point or fusing tempelature is 983 .
approximate to what these tempelatures really were , it was necessary to obtain that of the nace itself , which may be admitted as that of the slag it .
The difficulties attending the use here of any form of pyrometer , to say nothing of the mcertaintics of the indications of those instruments , finally determined the writer to employ method , or that of mixtules , by running out directly from the furnace a certain quantity of liquid iron into water of known weight contained in a wooden vessel , and afterwards to obtain the weight of the ilon entered .
The weight of Water and of iron being known , with their specific heats , and MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
the temperatures of the water before and after mixture with the liquid iron , the temperature of the latter is obtained .
The weight of water employed was always Three good experiments were obtained as follows:\mdash ; tempe.ratureof water Temperatureofwaftermixture.ater liquidironWeightof .
1 .
2 .
3 .
No steam was given off by running the iron into the water , and the loss of heat to the wooden vessel was very small on so lalge a volume of water .
The specific heat of cast iron at the highest temperature giyen by in his work on the blast-furnace ( pp. 47-51 ) is If be the temperature lost by the liquid iron , the increase of temperature of the water after mixture , the weight of water lbs. , that of the liquid iron , the specific heat of water being taken without sensible erlor as within the above range of temperatul.es , and being the specific heat of the liquid iron , we have ; to which we must add the initial temperatul.e of the water before mixture to obtain the temperature of the hquid iron .
Applying this , we have No. No. No. No. 1 .
Fahr. No. 2 No. 3 .
And adding to these the initial temperature of the water , we have for the actual temperature of the liquid iron\mdash ; No. 1 Fahr. No. 2 No. 3 the mean of which is 3677o Fahr. , or 201 Cent. 156 .
This determination coincides nearly enough with SCHURER'S results , who fixes the temperature of the zone of fusion in blast-furnaces at between 2650o Centigrade .
It is , however , below the truth , because at its intensely some heat must have been lost by the liquid iron on its way to the of water , some to the bottom of the wood vessel , with which it into ncal contact .
We may therefore estimate the actual tempel.ature of the furnace about 4000o Fahr. , and the above or , in round numbers , as the tempel.aturc of the liquid slag as it entered the cones . .
The solid conical blocks oooling within tOBERT bALLET OERGY reached the atmospheric tempelature 12 hours from filling , parting with 3680o in that time ; but consolidation commenced in 20 minutes ( or of 12 hours ) from running into the cones .
If , therefore , we admit that the rate of cooling in the first 20 minutes was six times as great as the mean rate ( which the laws of cooling would seem to justify ) , then the heat at the stage of incipient consolidation was , or say 3000o . .
After each cone of slag was sufficiently solidified , the cone of iron ( with the slag within ) and the base-plate were lifted together , and in the vertical position , by a crane on to a wag , and carried off on the furnace tramway and deposited vertically upon alevel iron platform within of another crane , and so left to cool .
After 24 hours the iron cone gently lifted off the cone of slag it contained ; and owing to the contraction of the slag and to the taper form , widest at bottom , the parting took very readily and without matelially .
the cones of slag , which were found sufficiently in form and smooth in surface to admit of acculate measurement .
159 .
The admeasurements wele then made by means of steel callipers and scales for diameters and , the former being controlled by circumferential measurements a raduated steel flexible stlip or tape* .
160 .
On breaking up these cones no large regated central core of matter from the general mass was found , nor any large cavities .
The exterior , where it had come into direct contact with the iron base or cone , was vitreous , and of a mole or less bluish tint ; but all the remainder showed itself , on examination with the naked cye or lens , as a tolerably mixture of ash-grey crystals , or less distinct , enveloped in a light greenish-yellow or pale-brown glass , the proportion of the crystalline to the glassy matter vely great , and greatest as ws approached the centre , whele in some places the grey clystals ( Wollastonite ) were very clearly developed .
The material operated on thus shows itself as a crystallized rock , and not a mere vitreous mass .
Since the .
of this paper it has been asked why the writer did not determine the volume of these cones of slag by bing in air and in water , or , more directly , by king w the base of the iron cone with the cone of slag within it , and ascertaining the volume of water requisite to ] up the vacancy between them .
Both these methods.occurred to mc , and , indeed , were those employed ( with mercury ) by BISCIIOFF , but were abandoned by the writcr , on the grounds of many practical difficulties , in favour of the method of direct measurement .
The cones of slag being intersected by closed cracks in various directions could not be disturbed or in air , still less in water , without much hazard , and the apparatus necded must have been powerful and expensive to makc .
The making the cast-iron cones at the of their bases would have been extremely difficult , as the iron cone , as sooll as it was raised a few inches , could not be lowered by reason of numerous minute fragments of detached having fallen ) betwccn ; some water under so a head would have penetrated these cracks ; and for either method so many sources of error would have arisen , so many corrcctions would have had to be applied , that simple measurement appeared to promise ths better results .
MR. ROBERT MALLET VOLCANIC ENERGY .
TABLE II.\mdash ; Results of Experiments on Slag Contraction , Barrow -Works .
Mean coefficient of total contraction , original volume , from to , as 1000 : Mean coefficient of contraction from fluidity to solidification , or ( by estimaticn ) from 3680o to 3000o , as 1000 : 983 .
Or if volume at , at or near above the fusing-point it will be 1072 nearly .
Or if volume at , at the temperature of solidification it will be nearly .
161 .
On .
Table II .
we arrive at the following esults : The coefficient of cubic contlaction for the slag between the temperature of its issue from the furnace and that of its incipient consolidation , or between and the original is to the contracted volume as 1000 : 983 ; and the coefficient of total cubic contraction , or that and , is nearly , or the oliginal is to the contracted volume as 1000 : 933 , which is scarcely 6 per cent. in place of 20 to 25 per cent. , as given by 162 .
We thus at once see that the difference in specific gravity , less than that between ice and water , between red-hot but solidified or even cold slag ( or analogous fused rocks ) and the same in liquid fusion is so slight that , coupled with the viscous or pasty condition which intervenes between the two states , it would readily admit a thin or a thick telrestrial solidified crust being supported by and upon the surface of the liquid globe beneath , and lends no stlppol.t to the view of strial c tion at the centle first , by continual subsidence of such cl.usts , as ined by POISSO nor to the notions as to the nature of volcanic action which has based on that assumption ( THOMSON and TATE , Not .
Phil. p. \amp ; c 163 .
A few experiments were made by the writer on the rate of cubic expansion of fragments ( of a few pounds weight ) at between and 60 Fahr. , by them immersed in mercury in a glass vessel with a grnduated stem , climinating by calculation the expansion of the glass and the mercury , whose cocfficients a G knov These seemed to indicate that within these low the expansion of the .
docs * The columns 3 are deduced from the coefficient of dilatation of cast iron , for not much differ from that of glass itself ; but we cannot attach much value to experiments thus made .
164 .
Admitting them for what they wolth , however , the curve ( Plate X. ) would seem to represent something like the increments of the coefficients of expansion of these at various temperatures , through the range from to 165 .
We now pass from the basic to the acid or silicates , of which British platelass may be taken as a type , as in chemical constitution not widely differing from the acid silicates in natural rocks , as a comparison of the following analyses shows:\mdash ; Plate-glass ( DUMAS , 'Chim .
appl .
aux Arts Silica Alumina Magnesia , , Lime Oxide iron , , Oxide manganese .
, , Potash . . . .
Soda .
Gneiss ( extlemes of 4 analyses ) .
Silica . . .
Alumina Oxide iron . . . .
Lime . . .
nesia Potash Soda Water Granites and Syenites . .
B. D. Silica . . .
Oxide iron Lime . . . . .
A and 13 are extremes of five analyses of ranites , and the extremes of foul .
analyses of syenites .
MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
Trachytes .
A. B. Silica Alumina Oxide iron Lime Magnesia .
Potash Soda A and are the extremes of five analyses , B BUXSEN'S normal trachyte of Iceland .
Porphyry , Pitchstones , Obsidian , \amp ; c. give closely allied results .
The preceding analyses of rocks are all taken from BLUM'S fine work , oder Gesteinlehre ' of 1860 .
166 .
The writer has been enabled to obtain , from measulements made daily and habitually in the progress of itish plate-glass manufacture , certain returns , from which the coefficient of contraction in that material , between a temperature not far below perfect fusion and that of the atmosphere , may be obtained , though not with pelfect accuracy , yet with an approximation to truth as great as , or possibly gleater than , by means of any small number of direct experiments .
167 .
In the manufacture ofplate-glass the molten is suddenly pouled out from the melting-pot upon the surface of a large cast-iron table .
In breadth the mass is restrained from spreading laterally beyond two parallel stlips of iron , fixed upon the table , the thickness of which determines that of the glass plate itself , which is produced by rapidly rolling over the heap of viscous glass a very heavy iron roller , by the of which the heap is evenly spread out , and a neally rectangular plate produced , two of the sides quite rectilinear and parallel , while the two other sides or ends are a little irregular .
The moment after the loller has thus acted , a supelintendent applies to the sheet a pair of graduated beam-callipers ( specially prepaled ) , and measules from a mean point chosen in the upper and lowel ends of the plate ( which he marks at once on the glass ) the mean length of the plate ( the breadth always the same ) , and the glass plate is as soon as possible slid off the table and removed to the " " leer\ldquo ; to be slowly cooled .
After it has become quite cold and is removed from the " " leer\ldquo ; , it is measured by the same callipers applied to the same marked places ; the width of the plate ( known while hot by the space between the parallel rulel.s ) is now also measured .
The surface of the plate is then calculated from those two dimensions , and the dimension and surface in a book , so of evely plate and of every day 's work in the year .
168 .
Whether this be the universal of the tla.de or not , it has been so at the Works of the Thames Plate-Glass Company at Blackwall ; and the writer is indebted to the intelligent Manager , Mr. F. M. WALLER , ) extracts his books for the manufacture of the year 1861 , giving those measrementS taken from about 40,000 superficial feet of plate-glass .
169 .
From a reduction of these it appears that the total surface of the hot glass being 36172 square feet , that of the same at atmospheric temperatule was 35692 .
Therefore the lineal .
dimensions were as the square roots of those numbers , or as 190 : 189 , or 100 : whence the lineal contraction of British plate-glass , between its very soft viscous condition , or very near to but below its temperature of perfect fusion , down to that of the atmosphere , say as the mean of the year , is per cent. 170 .
But three times this is quam its cubic contraction , or per cent. Hence1000 in volume of glass very near its fusing-point became at , or the contraction in volume is thus , which is somewhat ( probably not much ) below the truth , were to take the glass at the higher temperature of actual fusion .
171 .
The total contraction of the Barrow slag to that of the plate-glass is thus as 1000 : 933 : 984 , or the total contraction of the glass in passing through its whole range of temperature from somewhat below fusion is about equal to that of the slag in passing through about .
The writer places much reliance on this result , based as it is upon so large an area of observation , and obtained by the repetition of the same sort of measurements by the same person for long peliods , and being altogether of a character to cause minute errols to disappear from the final result* .
172 .
We therefore may be permitted to conclude that locks consisting of acid silicates contract still less than those of basic silicates , and that a terrestrial crust of the former is still more capable of floating upon the same in fusion beneath .
173 .
As applied to our globe , it is highly probable that any inferences that may be drawn from either of these coefficients must be subject to the changes in volume that may arise in the mass cooled from changes in its molecular arrangement , such as that from the vitreous to the crystallized condition , data .
which are unknown .
Nor , in our ignorance of the proportions in which basic and acid silicates or other bodies constitute our globe , are we able to fix any mean coefficient for the whole .
We have now , however , to attempt such applications of the numerical results arrived at as in the present state of our knowledge may enable us to illustrate the theory ofvolcanic action heye propounded , and in some to test its feasibility , if not its true th .
174 .
Sir W. THOMSON has shown that in the agglomeration the nebulous state ofits particles from infinite distance there has been expended nearly 14 millions of foot-tons * It may bo mentioned that the lfanngcr of tho Thamcs Plate-Glass Works has ncver been given by the writer any information as to the objcct of his in as to contraction , nor has he to the prcsent day knowledge of the cocfficients for slag obtained by the writer .
MR. ROBEBT lfALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
of work upon every ton weight of our existing globe ; and as that glomeration was gradual , the greater part of this enormous energy was dissipated in space as heat , and is the first and most enormous dissipation of energy in the formation of our planet .
The liquid globe became radually a partially ( for any thing we can affirm to the contrary ) now a wholly solid one , with a still heated nucleus .
175 .
The earth 's diameter being at present 7916 British miles ( adopting the coefficient of expansion as 933 : 1000 ) , it was when liquid a globe 8105 miles in diameter , or at the temperature of incipient consolidation ( supposing the whole globe ever was in that condition ) 7957 miles in diameter ; and if when liquid its mean temperature exceeded Fahr. , the diameter would have been still greater .
The earth , therefore , between its period of liquidity and its present state has shrunk in diameter by 189 miles at the least .
If we take as a measure of the energy involved in this , that it is equal to more than the work of the entire mass of the spherical shell of miles thick dropping through 47 miles , we derive some idea of the prodigious energy dissipated or transformed in this second stage of our world .
If we assume the heat of the liquid spheroid to have been dissipated before the solid crust acquired such thickness as to transmit powerfully and to great distances tangential compressive strains due to contraction from that to something .
its present state , that contraction represents work equivalent to 186,120 foot-tons for every ton of matter in the spherical shell comprehended between the radius of liquid fusion and the existing radius of our earth .
176 .
That portion of this immense energy not dissipated as radiant heat was , as we have seen , consumed as work in the deformation of the spheroid , in the plication of the thinner , and in the elevations by tangential of the mountain-chains .
177 .
At length we arrive at the present condition of our globe , with its primitive energy almost exhausted , yet with enough remaining ( in what comparatively is but the dregs or ashes ) to carry on what seems to us the work of vulcanicity .
178 .
The earth is still a cooling and whether we adopt DE figules , or , or J. D. FORBES'S ( millimetres ) for the thickness of the plate of ice which , covering the whole earth 's surface , if melted to water at Fahr. would equal the heat lost annually by our globe , the result will be that from 575 to 777 cubic miles of ice liquefied to water at represents the annual loss of heat at present from globe .
179 .
On the assumption that our globe has cooled from a much higher temperature and is still cooling , it is not delliable that at the remote geological epoch when the existing form of volcanic action begall , no matter whether that was anterior to the Secondary epoch or when , the annual loss of heat must have been greater the further we go back in time , and must have exceeded 777 cubic miles per annum .
We shall , however , adopt , as probably the nearest the truth .
As the latent heat of fusion of ice is Fahr. , and taking the cubic foot of ice to weigh we have of heat in the cube foot of liquefied ice .
206 ut we have lOBERT MALLET OOLCANIO ERGYushing to powder of But we have already found that the heat developed by the crushing to powder of 1 cubic foot of mean rock is British units of heat .
Hence a cubic foot ( or cubic mile ) of ice requires cubic foot or mile of crushed rock to liquefy it .
] Therefore , if the total amount of all the heat annually lost by the earth were produced from crushed rock in the contracting crust ( which it certainly is not ) , it would only require cubic miles of such crushed rock to produce it .
180 .
This seems a large amount ; but it is as nothing compared with the mass of the globe .
If , for example , we suppose it all crushed within a shell of solid crust whose volume is but one fourth that of the entire globe , it is less than the one 65 millionth part of the volume of that spherical shell , and if spread over the earth 's surface would form a mere film .
There would therefore be nothing incredible were we to suppose that nearly the whole of the heat annually lost by the entire globe was equalled by that produced by the crushing of its crust by the contraction of the entire globe .
Nor , as it appears to the writer , would the annual amount of contraction necessary to account for that amount of heat be inadmissible .
It is certain , howevel , that the whole of the heat lost annually by the globe cannot come from such a source , but only a very small proportion of it , because the lost heat is the soulce of the contraction .
181 .
We appear obliged by the phenomena of hypogeal increase of temperature ( perplexing as they are ) to conclude that by far the largest proportion of the heat annually lost reaches the surface from a cooling nucleus , which surface , though in various degrees , it eYerywhere reaches ; whereas volcanic activity is confined to narrow lines spread widely apart over the surface and parting with very little heat by lateral conduction .
The spheroidal wave of heat constantly passing upwards from the nucleus to the surface evelywhere must be dissipated from the dry land by radiation , consumed in heating the water of the ocean and helping in the production of its cul.rents , and is partly brought up by thermal waters which have iltrated cold from the surface ( see Appendix A ) .
182 .
Contraction due to this constant cooling ( and that greatest in the nucleus , which is hotter and contracts most for given amount of cooling ) is the necessary result , and with it crushing together of the crust as it follows down after the shrinking nucleus , and through the wolk expended in that the production of a distinct source of heat , the amount of which must be demonstrably sufficient if it be the true source of vulcanicity .
Let us then attempt to estimate , so far as our knowledge of the amount of volcanic ction going on upon our globe may enable us , whether it be sufficient or not .
183 .
Volcanic energy as witnessed on our globe is mainly expended in three ways : 1 .
Heat converted into work of elevation and ejection . .
Heat employed in fusing or heating solid ejecta .
3 .
Heat wasted and dissipated in steam \amp ; c. at volcanic vents .
MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENEIiGY .
184 .
Had the writer been fortunate enough to have completed his projected pyrometric determination of the actual temperature deep in the Vesuvian crater ( which the Royal Society aided some years back , but which the sudden alteration of the state of that volcano prevented ) , we should have been better prepared to make the following estimation .
185 .
All the volcanic cones upon our globe may be averaged as each equal in volume to a solid cone of one mile in height above the base Fig. 11 .
of five miles in diameter ; for while many are far below this height , and the majority of those measured do not reach this elevation , all the loftiest cones above sea.level ) , such as Cotopaxi , \amp ; c. , stand upon elevated tablelands or plateaux not volcanic or but covered skin deep with volcanic mattel , and so have only a real elevation as volcanic cones of about 5000 feet .
Thus Cotopaxi stands on plain of Quito , 9000 feet above the sea .
Antisana and two or three others only upon the whole globe appear to be exceptions ; but it is very doubtful whether any of these cones really rise from sea-level ; and the number is so small of these cones reaching 10,000 feet and upwards as not materially to affect the result .
186 .
The volume of one such.cone ( 5 miles base mile ) is cubic miles .
As all volcanic cones are mere " " cinder tips masses of dust , lapilli , and scoriae , to which the volume of solid lava beds bears a very small proportion , so we cannot take the average specific glavity of their materials at probably more than of a ton per cubic foot ; so that in one such cone we have 48,133,730,304 tons , to elevate which to the height of the centre of gravity of the cone mile above its base requires 63,536,524,001 foot-tons ; and as are or neally 3 British heat units in a footton , dividing the above we obtain 21,178,841,333,760 British units of heat equivalent to the work .
But we have found that one cubic foot of crushed ( mean ) rock evolves 6472 such units , diyiding by which we obtain 3,272,370,686 cubic feet of such clushed rock to perform the work , which is , or less than of a cubic mile of crushed rock to perform the lifting work from base of the cone ; or if we suppose it lifted from 10 miles deep below the base of the cone , then , or less than 1 cubic mile of crushed rock .
1.87 .
As respects the heating and fusing work , the observations made everywhere on volcanic cones indicate that but a very small proportion of their total mass has been fused , the rest having been merely heated. .
It is probably below the truth to assume that there is twenty volumes of such heated matter ( dust , lapilli , scoriae , \amp ; c. ) to one of fused lava .
The whole of this material , before being exposed to volcanic , exists at the hypogeal tempelature due to its depth .
1Ve may assume this temperature as above 30 Fahr. , or that due to from fifteen to twenty thousand feet depth , that the heated material is raised to Fahr. ( the melting-point of silver ) and the fused material to Fahr. ( that of liquid cast iron ) from the initial temperature .
188 .
It follows from equation ( 6 ) that 1 cubic mile of crushed mean rock will thus heat cubic mile of the heated material , or will fuse cubic mile of the fused material , the specific heat of all being taken as the same .
And from the relative proportions of the dust and scoriae to lava above assigned , we obtain as the result that 1 cubic mile of crushed mean rock will supply the quantity of heat necessary for cubic mile of the mixed heated and fused material constituting a volcanic cone , or that cubic miles of crushed mean rock is required for each cubic mile of volcanic cone .
Hence each such cone of the volume previously assigned requires cubic miles of crushed rock for its heating work .
We have to add to this the lifting work as previously found cubic mile , in total cubic miles of crushed rock .
189 .
We have further to estimate the waste .
From the Iow average conductivity of rock materials ( perhaps not that of silver ) the loss of heat by conduction to the walls of the volcanic focus and tubes to surface may be taken as insensible .
The main source of waste is in heat units expended in producing steam , that yields no effective action in lifting or is spent in aerial ejection above the crater .
190 .
We have no data for more than a probable conjecture as to what may be the average amount of this .
It may be remarked , however , that the sources ofloss of effective action of the steam here do not resemble those in the steam-engine , in which , as HIBN has shown , about nine units of heat are wasted to one utilized , but rather lesemble those of the gunpowder-gases in a cannon through windage and powder blown out unconsumed , \amp ; c. , the losses from which ballistic experiments prove to be much smaller .
We shall allow , therefore , here that double the units of heat utilized in lifting are wasted , or that three times the lifting work is that actually expended , or cubic miles of crushed mean rock .
191 .
Thus the lifting , heating , or fusing , and wasted work together , for one volcanic cone of the mean volume above assigned , demand a total of cubic miles of crushed mean rock , or 18 cubic miles in lound numbers .
192 .
Now there are about 400 volcanic cones known or stated to exist on the globe number sanctioned by HUMBOLDT and othel .
good authorities ) , and averaging them all at the dimensions above , we find that cubic miles of crushed rock would have sufficed for their production .
193 .
[ It thus appeals that were the entire of the 987 cubic miles of crushed rock representing the annual loss of heat of our globe all consumed in volcanic energy , it would suffice to form all the volcanic cones upon our earth in less than eight years .
Tens of thousands of years have been actually spent on the operation , from which we may see how excessively small must be the amount annually expended in vulcanicity .
] MR. ROBERT WALLET ON VOLCANIC NEBGY .
209 .
194 .
Taking now the earth 's mean diameter at 7912 Fig. 12 .
miles , two spherical lunes at right angles to each other , and , fig. 12 , each of chord , having a radial depth of 10 miles , and having no thickness at the extremities and , would at a width of only 255 feet at the equator and pole respectively be equal in volume to the 7200 miles ; so that a circumferential contraction on the surface of the earth , if all in two orthogonal great circles not exceeding 255 feet on about 25,000 miles , is all we need to supply the volume of crushed rock within the first 10 miles of the surface , or vastly less if the contraction be extended down to a crust of 100 miles or 800 miles deep ; and this crushed rock is not subtracted from the earth 's volume , but simply transposed from beneath to its surface .
These 400 volcanic cones probably do not very inadequately l'eplesent the totality of volcanic action that has taken place since the Tertiary or even a more remote epoch ; we know not how long that is ; but if we spread the volcanic action ovel even a few thousands of years , we see what an almost infinitesimally small amount of annual crushing by contraction is sufficient to account for the phenomena .
It is not likely that future exploration will greatly add to the number of known volcanic cones , extinct , dormant , or active .
Africa , the only continent not yet tolerably known , seems to contain very few and probably none in the interior ; New Guinea , and the Antarctic continent may have a few ; but it is improbable that 10 per cent. remain altogether to add to those already known .
Again , it is highly improbable ( on grounds which it is impossible here to enlarge upon ) that there are many submarine volcanoes , most probably none at all over the vast area of the bed of the deep ocean .
One area alone has been discovered beneath the Atlantic Ocean , traversed as that has been for centuries now by ships continually .
Some no doubt there are in shallow water , here and there , and more especially off the Pacific coasts of the American continent .
However , let us grant ' scope and verge enough and assume that one hnlf as many more volcanoes as those we know of remain to be added , or that their total is 600 in place of 400 ; the result will be that in place of 7200 cubic miles of mean clushed rock we shall require 10,800 cubic miles\mdash ; a volume still perfectly insignificant when spread over the vast volume of the earth 's crust at 800 milcs or even 100 miles thickness , and diffused in time over the unknown ages that have psed since the commcncement of the existing forms of volcanic action .
195 .
We may illustrate the matter in another .
basis the best observed volcano in the world , Vesuvius , and the annual vulcanicity of the wholc globe by the scale afforded by its very numerous eruptions .
Let it be assumed that the whole cone of Vesuvius ave the level of mitage , @ or below the Atrio del Cavallo , , taken at 2000 feet above the sea-level , has been Fig. 13 .
removed and replaced since the year .
This is certainly above the truth , and exceeds Professor PHILLIPS'S estimate Vesuvius , ; for it takes no account of the mass of Somma , , and the remains of the old mountain at the sea side , ( Pedamentina ) , still lemaining , and lets these go against all the lava-streams since and the wind-diffused dust , the united volume of which cannot but be much less than that of Somma alone from the Punto del Naso down to the level of the Hermitage .
The base-angle of the imagined cone we take from SCROPE , and the writer 's own observation of the angle of Somma at the level of the Atrio , at , the total height of the Vesuvian summit at 4250 feet , which gives for the altitude of the cone ( lemoved more than once ) 2250 feet and the diameter of base 10,400 feet , or for simplicity let us call it mile of melted or heated and elevated material ---z represents the useful work expended on the vol- cano for the above peliod .
196 .
that work not to be paroxysmal ( as it really is in every volcano ) but spl.ead uniformly over the 18 centuries , we have cubic mile annum , or 109 , cubic feet annum , laised 2000 feet from sea-level to the base of the cone and of 2250 feet further to its centre of gravity .
Taking , as before , the weight of the material at of a ton per cubic foot , we have for the lifting yolk 14,010,053,610 foot-tons , equivalent to 4,831,052,974 British units of heat .
Dividing this by the units of heat in a cubic foot of mean clushed lock as , we obtain 746,481 cubic feet , or less than of a cubic mile of clushed rock as necessary to do the annual lifting work of the cone itself .
Allowing , as before , that double the number of units of heat are wasted of those usefully employed in lifting wolk , we have for the lifting work and waste together000015 cubic mile of mean MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
ushed rock ; but , as before , we assume the lift to be 10 miles ( and not from sea-level to centre of gravity of the cone ) , or 21 times nearly the above .
Hence we have for the total work of the cone building\ldquo ; in elevation , heating , and fusing ( taken , as in the previous case , at cubic miles of mean crushed rock to each cubic mile of volcanic cone material ) as follows:\mdash ; Total lifting work and waste . . . . .
000315 and fusing work on cubic miles of cone material 00291 Total in mean crushed rock in cubic miles per annum .
000606 197 .
Now the total number of active volcanic foci known on our globe , as iven by HUMBOLDT and others , is 270 ; let us take them at 300 , and that all , small and great , when active are as active as Vesuvius , and produce the same average annual amount of equally heated or fused ejecta while in a state of activity .
Both assumptions are greatly above the tluth , probably , when we consider how many very small volcanoes there are ( such as Stromboli ) always active , but whose ejecta in a year ( at present and for all history ) have been insignificant in proportion to the few very great ones and the immense periods of dormancy of the majority .
How many of the active volcanoes are on the erage in eruption every year we know not ; it will be admitted as probably above the truth if we assume that one in every the of them is so ; that amounts to 100 cones always at work , at the rate of activity which we have taken for Vesuvius , which is notoriously one of the most frequently active on the globe* .
The final result , then , is that cubic mile , represents in clushed rock per annum a considerable excess above the total existing annual vulcanicity expended on our earth .
198 .
[ Another form of estimate may be employed .
The the greatest single flows of lava of which any attempt has been made to ximate to theil volume : \mdash ; Graveneire . . .
57 million cubic metres .
Pariou . . . . .
33 million cubic metres .
Mont Sinuire . . . . .
172 million cubic metres .
Come . . . . .
344 million cubic metres .
These are all in Auvergne , as given by M. LE ( Epoques .
d'Auvergne , .
iv who states the great uncertainty attending the cubation of every , and deems that of Come as very doubtful .
Skaptar Jokul , 1783 : 164 millions millions of cubic metles .
en Islande , \amp ; c I omit another from the same , affirmed , on uttcrly fallacious data , to hav exceeded the volume of the entire mass of Mont Blanc .
* The catalogucs that exist of hc periods of activity of rest of .
Etna , and appear to contain the fact that in those cases at least the years of activity to thosc of dormancy do not reach ollO in ( see DAUBENY'S 'Volcanoes ' and Etna , 1669 : 600 millions cubic metres , according to BORELLI , but on very unsatisfactory data .
M. CORDIER ( Essai sir la Temperature de l'Interieure de la Terre , \amp ; c after discussing several of the greatest lava-streams on lecord , including the above , and admitting their uncertainty , comes to the conclusion that 1000 millions of cubic metres exceeds the volunie of any lava-stream of which we have any evidence whatever .
This .
applies to lava-streams from volcanic action proper , and excludes those enor- mous wellings forth of basalt , trachytes , or other ancient lavas antecedent to the existing epoch of true or explosive volcanic action , such as have been observed in California , the magnitude of which often wholly dwarfs that of the very greatest volcanic outpourings .
The writer believes all the greater figures preceding , including .
CORDIER'S estimate , to be greatly in excess of the truth ; but let us adopt .
CORDIER'S volume .
Let us further assume that , in addition to this 1000 million cubic metres of material all fused , we have the same portion as present supposed of heated but not fused incoherent material , viz. twenty times the volume of lava ; and , lastly , that the entire is lifted from ten miles depth , and , in addition , to the summit of a cone higher than Hecla , or 5280 feet ( mile ) more , and that , as before , we have double as much lifting work wasted as is usefully employed , .
three units of heat to do the work of one .
We then obtain the following results : there is cubic yard in 1 cubic metre , 1000 millions of cubic metres millions of cubic yards fused from Fahr. , requiring cubic yalds , or nearly 10 cubic yards , of crushed rock for each cubic yard fused , millions of cubic yards of crushed rock .
Then for heated material laised from to , we have millions of cubic yards , requiring cubic yards of crushed rock for each cubic yard heated , ) millions of cubic yards of crushed rock .
Then for the lifting work , taking the density at ton per cubic yald , ton ( millions13070 millions ) millions of tons lifted ; and as foot-ton , million units ofheat to lift itl foot high ; and dividing by 6472 units of heat in 1 unit of volume of crushed , we require !
cubic yards of crushed lock to lift 1 foot high , or million cubic }-ards to lift 1 mile high , or 11 times this for 11 miles , in all million cubic yalds of rock Cl.ushed .
Then for wasted heat have double this , or millions of cubic yalds of crushed rock .
Summing up results , we have : Fusing work million cubic yards .
work . . . . .
Lifting work . . . .
Wasted work Total in cubic yards of clushed rock .
ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
which , divided by the cubic yards in one cubic mile , , or cubic miles of crushed rock to produce the whole .
The lost heat ( in crushed rock ) of our globe could produce this amount in less than two years .
But such an eruption as the above does not occur probably in a hundred years , if such an eruption ever occurred at all .
But that is only the part of the equivalent in mean crushed lock of the heat at present lost annually by our earth , which , as we have seen , is equal to 777 cubic miles of ice melted , or to 987 cubic miles of mean rock if crushed ( 992 cubic miles if we take the weight of a cubic foot of ice at ponnds The volume of rock necessary to be crushed annually as thus found is ( as in the estimate ) perfectly insignificant , when compared with that of a solid crust of 800 miles thick or even of 100 miles in thickness .
199 .
Finally , it is apparent that even were our estimates of past 01 of volcanic energy of our globe below the truth to such an extent that ten the estimated amount of crushed rock would be needed to supply it , we should still have an ample storehouse of energy for it in the heat now annually lost by our globe , .
still the greater part of that to be wasted by radiation into space .
200 .
The rock thus crushed transfers a portion of its own mass from a greater or less depth to the sulface , and the cavities from which it is ejected of so much bulk , permitting them thus to close in and accommodate the dimensions of the shell to those of the .
nucleus beneath ; but the mass is tlansferred , it is not lost ; and the transfer might hay no effect whatevel on the length of the day , even were its mass greater .
Nor is the volume of rock crushed ( to perform the volcanic vork ) necessarily all ejected ; any one point , on the contraly , much of it may cool sitn 11-ith extreme slowness , and get lecompacted into solid lock .
201 .
The writer believes , vever , that a considerable pption is ejccted , and that this is , in fact , the function or final cause in the cosmos of vulcanicity .
It is the means whereby a .
solid crust radually , smally , on the harmlessly , adjusts itself to the dimensions of the nucleus shrinkin away beneath it ; and were it not for this provision in the grand machine , or were the solid crust so rigid and constituted that its parts could not locally crush up , and the crushed matter be cleared out and up to the surface , paroxysmal convulsions must result , with perhaps ages between them , which would overturn the whole economy of the surface upon which the existence of nized life is now dependent .
Admitting fully within what wide limits of error estimat as these alone admit of made , the writer yet submits that he proved to a of probability that Ml .
ROBERT MALLET ON CANIC ENERGY .
1st .
The crushing of the earth 's solid crust affords a suPply of energy sufficient to account for terrestrial vulcanicity* ; 2nd .
That the necessary amount of crushing falls within the limits may be admitted as due to terrestrial contraction by secular refrigeration ; and if so , that the cause thus assigned is probably true cause of existing volcanic action , will there appear on comparing the conditions , or some of them , that we can predicate must follow from such crushing action going on locally within the earth 's solid crust , with some of the best known facts of observation of volcanoes themselves , to which we now proceed .
202 .
A primary characteristic of the view of volcanic action here proposed is , that it is only one phase of a tmique force which has always been in action , though always decreasing in energy , since our planet was nebulous .
It introduces no hazy hypotheses of ' ' reaction of the interior against the exterior of internal distension by unknown gases , of chemical actions in the interior unsupported by of their existence .
It simply postulates an always cooling globe subjected to gravitation , and through these two undeniable premises it links together as the successive products of two forces only , lefiigelation and gravitation , the formation of the land and ocean-beds , the elevatiou of mountain-chains , and volcanic action as now existing .
Simplicity is the charac- telistic of every hypothesis upon which any true theory of the operations of has ever been 203 .
The long prevalent view of geologists , that volcanic heat and steam explosive powel alose from making its way from the surface through an exceedingly thin solid crust to a universally liquid and fiery nucleus , is only tenable on the admission of such thinness of clust ( probably 30 to 50 miles at most ) as is quite incompatible with observed thermal conditions both on the surface and beneath it .
But if we admit a very much thicker solid cl.ust ( from 300 to 800 miles ) , it is incledible that surface-water should ever find its way through such a depth of dense matelial to the liquid nucleus ; yet without ater we can have no volcano , steam being admitted on all sides to be the ejective .
The wholly gratuitous hypotheses of SCHALER , of Boston ( Proc. Bost .
Not .
Hist. Soc. 1866 ) , of a liquid spherical shell between a solid nucleus and a solid crust , and of HOPXINS , of isolated liquid subterl.aneous lakes of lava within an othel.wise solid globe , do not remove the difficulties as to their connexion with the surface-waters , and are exposed to insupel.able objections to their existing at all .
204 .
SCHALER'S nucleus must be in unstable equilibrium as to position .
Objections * As this paper cannot bc extended so as to includc any special considerations of the effects as to fusion , chemical combination , or decomposition producible by a givcn amount of thermal energy acting on the substances within our earth 's crust , it is herc only possible to remark that in such considerations the effects of substances under pressure , as pointed to in reccnt experiments of DEYILLE and GEBNEZ and of kLAND , all tcnding to show that the same amount of heat is effoctive chcmically as the pressure ulldcr which it acts is greater , must not be ccted ; nor , on the other hand , those of M. ( Lcs Mondcs , on { he limits to chcmical tiou sct by its taking placc under pressure .
MR. ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
have been already urged to HOPKINS'S lakes .
Eithel the lakes or the liquid zone lie far too deep to be in communication with the surface-waters ; and if once such a communication be supposed established , no reason can be assigned why the volcanic eruption thus brought about should ever end before either the limitless supply of water were ended or the reservoir ofliquid lava completely pumped out .
205 .
Whether coming from liquid spherical shell or lake of lava , it is hard to see why the lava of the same volcanic vent drawn from the same reservoir should not always be the same .
Every thing indicates that the actual focus , where fire and water contend and produce volcanic action , is at no great depth below the volcanic vent .
The directions of the shocks felt during eruptions by observers not far removed from the axes of volcanic vents conclusively establish this .
The centre of impulse of these shocks is coincident ( on the whole ) with the volcanic focus .
Now , were this at a great depth , the emergent wave-paths around the base of the volcanic cone , and for considelable distances from it , must be almost vertical ; houses\amp ; c. shaken down must show that they were so by forces suddenly throwing them upwards and letting them fall in lines not very far from vertical .
But such are not the facts even in the close neighboulhood of the great South-American and Oriental volcanoes ; the shocks near the base felt to approach nealel to horizontality than verticality , as is also the case with the best observed European eruptions .
206 .
But the writer is enabled to produce direct proof of this in the case of the greatest of European cones .
In 1864 , while exploring Etna , he noted and measuled the directions of the cracks produced in a large number of more or less ancient church-towels and other buildings by the shocks of successive eruptions at various periods .
These observations were made at different towns or places , lound a very large of the total circumference of the mountain .
In every instance the masonry fractures pointed to a wave-path coming near about the axis of the conc , and from a centre of impulse situated not very many miles below the level of the sea .
This is conclusive as to the focus being not very deep ; were it 800 miles deep , or half that , the injury done to towers and buildings must present a xvholly diffelent chalacter , and the verticality of the shocks could not escape universal notice .
207 .
But if the volcanic foci lie in lakes or perennial spheric sheets of liquid lava , then they must be , ex ypothesi , below the thick crust , and at an immense depth , and nearly the same everywhere .
But water must reach that depth , reat as it may be ; and the possibility of its access , it is difficult to see how , unless ture ) it is compressed to a greater density than the liquid lake of solid , it so get beneath or mixed with the latter as to be able to blow it up in a , and enable it to reach the surface through ducts or fissures of 500 the walls of which are comparatively cold .
208 .
Recognized phenomena of rent volcanoes indicate they do not all come from even nearly the same depth ; but the depth must be nearly the same for all if the foci be in a spherical couch of liquid lakes left by refrigeration of the rest of the globe , as ined by HOPKINS .
209 .
These difficulties disappear on our theory .
The focus of heat may be at any depth , because hing of the solid crust may occur at any depth , dependent on thickness of crust , couch of maximum tangential pressure or of greatest crushing resistance , \amp ; c. ; and in general the tendency must be for the crushing simply to occur at no great depths the surface .
210 .
The crushing is local , both as to surface and depth ; where it occurs , being in the weakest parts of the crust , the fissules for admission of water are the most likely to be present .
211 .
The result of the crushing is to produce irregular masses , on the whole tending to verticality , of ized rock , heated more or less highly , that may extend to any depth within the solid crust ; but it is only to such depth as water can percolate or infiltrate by capillal.ity that the deepest focus of volcanic activity can be found .
Below that the clushed and heated rock may exist , but it remains quiescent unless water leaches it or gases be evolved by chemical action increased by the heat .
When water does reach such a heated mass of clumbled rock , it leadily finds its way through the whole mass , which absorbs it as red-hot sand does water poured into it .
Steam is if the temperatul'e due to crushing be sufficient to raise both the crushed rock and the watel ( under the pressure of its superincumbent column and the lesistances of the water-ducts ) to the fusing-point , boursoufle lava results , and at sufficient elastic steam pressure is ejected , perhaps enlarging its own vent of issue by some fissure , by fusion as it rises , and subsequently by abrasion .
212 .
The researches of later years , and especially of JAMIN and DAUBBEE , have shown that infiltrating water through the capillary pores of permeable rock may continue to pass through such ainst a heavy steam pressure ; so that whilst the water continues to enter thus a heated cavity full of hot crushed rock , by an insistent head and by capillality in the rock , no steam can escape back through the porous rock preoccupied by the watel , just as a porous stone under a head of water would continue to pass water into a fire , though the latter contained steam or gases under pressure which could not pass out through the stone .
We have thus all the conditions in our focus needed for the of such variations of lava as we actually witness .
Analyses have shown that while there is a great general similarity of constitution in lavas all oYel the globe , they yet do differ in constitution considerably to affect their of fusibility .
We are also able to observe that some volcanic vents produce mole fusible lavas than othels , that some volcanoes produce little lava and much heated and ized material , and some nothing but the latter , no lava at all .
213 .
can also see ( in a good many cases at least ) that the fusibility of the laya , and the proportion of its supply to that of unfused heated matter , dust , and lapilli , is referable to ( coexistent or not ) elements of cause\mdash ; the more or less fusible chemical MR. ROBERT MALLET ON ENERGY .
constitution of the lava , and the.higher or lower temperature of the focus ; and we can further see that the constitution of the lava has some relation to the successive lithologic formations in which the focus and vent are situated or through which they pass .
Siliceous crystalline rock and aluminous rocks alone , pulverised and fused , produce , for example , highly infusible lavas ; siliceous and calcareous , still more those with certain portions of aluminous or ferruginous rock , much more fusible ones .
The old but valuable experiments of KIRWAN worthy of being still consulted on these points ( KIRWAN'S ' Mineralogy the fusibility in all cases also being largely influenced by the alkaline contents of the water , sea or fresh , that finds its way to the focus .
214 .
Now all these conditions are accountable for on the supposition of local and often more or less distinct foci of heated and pulverised rocks , differing in composition at different depths of the heated column .
We have also an adequate cause for the great differences of temperature at different and even closely adjacent vents , in that the heat at the focus is not delived from any invariable source at a nearly constant and uniform temperature , as in HOPKINS'S notion , but is directly proportionate to the local tangential pressure which produces the crushing and the resistance thereto , and may vary to any extent at different points or at the same point at different times .
215 .
In this , too , we find an adequate and easy explanation of the absolutely nonperiodic activity of volcanoes and their occasional sudden and violently paroxysmal action , as well as for periods of repose , and the absolute extillction of some and the out of new ones at points where none previously existed .
216 .
The secular cooling of the globe is always going on , though in a very slowly descending ratio .
Contraction is therefore constantly providing a store of energy to be expended in pal.ts of the crust , and through that providing for the volcanic heat .
But the crushing itself does not take place with uniformity , it necessarily acts per saltum after accumulated pressure has l.eached the necessary amount a riven point , where some of the pressed mass , ?
pressed as we must assume it , gives , and is succeeded perhaps by a time of lepose or by the tlansfcr of the action elsewhere to some weaker point .
217 .
Hence , the azine of volcanic is being constantly and adily replenished by secular cooling , the effects are intermittent , and just provide from to year the amount of force which is consumed in vulcanicity .
It is one of the many cases in nature in which the uniform devclopment of a force results in variable and intermittent action as the effect of the force ; it is produced and accumulated , but unequally or paroxysmally expcnded .
such slowly accumulating pressure on local points of rigid solids does tyay by crushing paroxysmally may be illustrated to the senses by slowly and steadily a lump of sugar held by the fingers against a table ; some of .
surfaces in contact crush to powder , there is a momentary repose ; we continue the prcssure , or slowly or slightly increase it , more crushing , and another repose follows .
218 .
One cause for the extinction or long repose of volcanoes has been more or less perhaps recognized , they may get drowned out the activity is dependent upon a certain balance between the supply of heat and the supply of water ; if the latter become excessive , action dwindles to the solfatara or ceases altogether or for a time .
But no prior theory assigns any cause for variability in the supply of heat : if that came from an immense liquid nucleus , it must be always the same and inexhaustible practically ; if from the ry lakes , it might be slowly exhausted , but could not rapidly decline nor suddenly vanish , unless by the draining dry of its contents or of the heat of the whole lake .
On our hypothesis , howevel , we find an adequate explanation for the sudden production at a given spot and for the rapid exhaustion of the source of heat , and for its possible again at the same spot or its production at another , adjacent or emotc ; in other words , for the long observed shifting of the position of volcanic vents in the course of time , as '-ell as for the secular enlargement of the superficial areas within which their action occurs , as remarked by HUMBOLDT ( Cosmos ) .
219 .
Lastly , it presents a complete solution to the question , Why should volcanoes present the linear arrangement they do on our globe , and why should they on the whole follow the lines of mountain-chains ?
As manifestations of a common cause , contraction by secular cooling , but different in degree , the mountain-langes heaped up by tangential pressule ( as has been eady stated ) have been formed along lines of contrary flexure and of great fissuring and weakness in the earth 's clust .
But it is along such lines of weakness that the crushing by tangential pressure of the cooler and more rigid clust must principally occur ; so that we may admit that at present the entire , or neally so , of the tangential pressures produced by secular cooling are balanced by to those great lines .
Hence the line of volcanic vents follows the mountain-chain:\mdash ; lst , because there the fissures and vents of a shattered crust are chiefly found ; 2nd , because it is in such lines that the chief crushing goes on as the weakest places , so that there the heat for the volcano is provided .
Here the " " lake theory\ldquo ; signally fails .
On what conceivable grounds shall we imagine these inary lakes arranged beneath great curved ] ines on the surface , as beneath the immense line of volcanoes that girdles the Pacific ?
Why , if produced as residues of a frozen liquid nucleus , should they not rather be scattered pretty evenly in a couch beneath the whole surface of the earth ?
But if they be so , then the greater part of them must be hermetically sealed up from water , , by hypothesis , we should have volcanoes dotted all over the earth ; and this last is equally truc as applicable to ScIIALER'S ] iquid zone or a umiversal liquid nucleus .
220 .
such lines of volcanoes one vent or another may stal.t into activity , accol d as the crushing energy beneath supplies more heat and pulverised material than another ; and we find an explanation for the observed ( or supposed to be ) fact without in the very crude notion that one volcanic vent relieves another , all drawing from a common fiery ocean or from lakes beneath . .
ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
221 .
also see that it is but a partial view to say the volcano is a safety-valve to the earthquake ; for the volcano is really the safety-valve for the lelief from time to time of the effects of contraction by cooling of our globe ; and there is perhaps no more convincing consideration , indicating that the motive cause here assigned for vulcanicity is the true one , than is found in the fact that the assigned mechanism is one of nature 's balancing adjustments , that the volcano 's work is exactly proportionate to the crushing energy of the contraction that brings it forth , and which is thus drained off , gradually on the whole , though intermittently , in place of accumulating , until by the crushing together of vast masses at once of the earth 's thick crust , cataclysm must arise destructive to the hving creation .
The action resembles that of the escapement of a clock , which lets the weight drop not uniformly , but slowly and gently , which if permitted to descend suddenly through a large space , must destroy the machine .
222 .
If , then , this be the true nature of volcanic activity upon globe , it must be so for other planets , so far as their construction is analogous to that of our own .
And should future improvements of the telescope ever enable us to examine the faces of the other bodies of our solar system with sufficient exactitude , we shall be able in some degree to test this .
At present , however , we can only apply it to our own satellite , and ask does it give us any information as to the peculiarities that its surface reveals to us in lespect to bygone vulcanicity therein .
223 .
lVithout ocean or atmosphere , volcanic action such as we have upon globe is impossible ; it is possible , however , that the former vulcanicity of the moon was maintained until her whole ocean ( which , in that case , must have been a very limited one ) and her atmosphere had been wholly If that be so , as a precise balance is not probable , then it is likely there is still more or less unoxidized or otherwise chemically uncombined material in the moon .
But whethel the vulcanicity of the moon be a completely spent energy or not , find upon its surface elevations , and what appear to be craters , vastly exceeding in altitude and in width any thing upon our globe , and which seem perfectly abnormal as compared with the relative small size of the moon to our earth .
224 .
If vulcanicity be dependent merely upon communication , ough the crust , with the liquid nucleus , partial or universal , and water-access to the same , there is no imaginable connexion between the intensity of volcanic action and the size of the planet on which it occurs ; if any , it is this , that the smallel planet cooling fastest my have a thicker crust , and so volcanic intensity should show itself less the smallel planet is .
But if it be , as here contended , a consequence of secular , then the will bc greater as the progress of cooling is more rapid .
Now the cooling of any globe of likc constitution and at the same distance from the sun must be directly as its surface and inversely as its mass\mdash ; that is to say , as the mean diameter .
Hence the rate of refrigeration of the moon from this cause alone must have been greatly more rapid than that of our globe , and hence the intensity of vulNDCCCLXXIII .
2 .
ROBERT MALLET ON canicity in a iven time far greater also , because contraction of the crust is proportionate to the l.ate of cooling , and the heat produced by crushing of the crust proportionate to that late .
We therefore see here a sufficient cause for the greater height of the mountain-ranges , as well as for that of the volcanic craters , in the moon than on our earth .
This greater height was no doubt further exalted by the diminished action of gravity in the smallel .
globe opposing elevation , as well as by the want of density though probable great of the material .
the moon . .
The density of the moon is stated by HERSCHEL ( ' Astronomy ' to be , our earth 's density being taken as unity ; and the mean density of our earth being about it follows that that of the moon is about , which is about that of corundum , sapphire , quartz , metallic silicates ; so that , with the exception probably of a small and possibly metallic nucleus of gleater density , the whole may consist of aluminates and silicates reat ridity , and therefore producing very great resistances to contractile , and hence reat elevation of temperature at local points during cooling .
And this appears supported by the Rillen of DLER , which to the writer 's eye , with best telescope , and also to that gentleman , appear as cracks or deep fissures in a surface .
The prevailing direction of these Rillen is about at angles to the lines of elevation , which is just what we should expect if the elevating force were such as here indicated , viz. a tangential compression , for in that lines of tension must be orthogonal to the lines of elevating sure , and therefore resulting cracks orthogonal to the lines of elevation .
226 .
It would be to our purpose , and lead too far , to go into the bable causes that have led to the great lelative diameters of the lunar cratels .
Thus far we discern that volcanic activity generally is dependent upon the solid and liquid materials ( elements ) constituting any planet , upon their conductivity ( rate at which they can part with heat ) , upon the mass of the planet , upon which both its original tempelatule ( when all in fusion ) and its rate of cooling are dependent , and upon its distance from the sun ; possibly also upon whether or not it traverses in spacc regions of riable tempcrature . .
In the sun itself we but behold vulcanicity in its eal.liest and most potent stage , that of the condensation and chemical exhaustion of a primordial world of vast dimensions , with its yulcanicity exhibited in to the ination)randeur .
In our own globc we see it developed by quite the like train of causation acting differently at succcssive epochs , extending over time that we cannot measure , and now dwindled down to its present point , it is but part of the beneficent machinery of our earth , to make it safe abode of plants , animals , and man himself .
In the moon we see it , aftel .
having assed t all its stages , died out and gone . .
If , then , in what has been here advanced , and , so far as the writer 's knowledge extends , for the first time , the cause assigned for volcanic heat , viz. the of the earth 's solid , accounts for alt the phenomena , leaves none unexplained or .
ROBERT ALLET O VOLCANIC ENERGY .
inexplicable , and introduces no consequences in themselves either inexplicable or contrary to observed facts , but all parts of the theory fit together with the facts so far as we observe them in nature , like the parts of a " " dissected map \ldquo ; which no one piece can be left out nor to it any new one added , then the writer submits that , on true principles of philosophy , the theory may be regarded as a true interpretation of Nature .
[ Note.\mdash ; The views of BABBAGE and of Sir T. as to the nature of volcanic heat have been alluded to at p. .
It would have been difficult , however , before the development of the principles contained in the preceding paper to have shown the insufficiency of those views .
As they still in the minds of some geologists it seems desirable to advert to them here .
views are found , as stated by himself in letters to Sir LyELL and Sir RODERICK MURCHISON , vol. .
of the of the Society of London .
Briefly they may be said to embrace two distinct heads : 1st , subversions of mechanical equilibrium by sedimentary deposits unequally laid upon an extremely thin solid crust on a liquid nucleus ; ndly , the consequences of such sedimentary deposits in causing a local rise in the geothermal couches .
The former we may pass , the existence of any such thin crust being inadmissible .
As regards the latter it is enough to say that it fails to afford any adequate supply of heat sufficient to account for terrestrial vfficanicit The gradual rise of an isothermal couche in the way gested by scHEL may possibly afford an adequate supply of heat to account for the phenomena of metamorphism , or more properly pyromorphism , but not for the play of any ejective volcano .
Space forbids any proof of this here ; but the nature of the objection may be illustrated by an example .
If we suppose , what certainly does not exist anywhere on our globe , that sedimentary deposits are continuously over some large area at the rate of 50 feet in depth per annum , it win require ave 105 to deposit a mile in depth ; if we further suppose the conductivity of the superfioial scdiment the as of that already deposited and deeply buried , the annual rise of any given geothermal couche beneath a given square milc of surface will be 50 feet , and the increase of temperature of the material just above the former lcvel of the couche win be about 1 .
The heat added , therefore , will be but one degree or thereabouts in a mass of sediment 50 feet in thickness and a square mile in arca .
This amount convcrted into units of heat is therefore the entire magazine of heat to supply the annual volcanic work per square mile , ttnd , even on this extreme supposition as to rate of deposit , would prove wholly inadequate for the fusing and work and wastc required for the phenomena of active vulcanicity as now existing .
On principles derived from the above it mtty further be shown that making the very admissible estimate as to the total amount of sedimentary matter deposited annually over the entire globe , that amount would be altogether inadequate , upon HERaeCIIEL'S views , to supply the heat required for the annual vulcanicity of our globe as estimated in the preceding HERSCIIEL'S views were apparently hastily struck off , and so far as they have been accepted by and other ists , have been so apparently on the credit due to the reputation of their author .
Had thermodynamics , however , been sufficiently advanced in HBRSCHEL'S lifetime to have enabled ] to test his views by their aid , there can be no doubt but that that illustrious mall would have imself discerned the untenability of his theory .
In conclusion it may be added that the notion of some ists that no supply of surface-water is ncccssary to existent volcanic action , but that the supply of water is derived from that liquid in cavities of the decp-seated rocky material , may be shown to present no for the volume of steam in relation to the solid and liquid ejecta as seen at volcanic vents.\mdash ; July lS73 .
] APPENDIX .
A. Thermal Springs .
Authors on Vulcanology generally view thermal springs as one of the manifestations of volcanic action .
That they are , in many instances , connected with volcanic vents , whose energies are neal .
lie or for a time exhausted , is evident from such instances as the great hot springs of Auvel.gne or of Iceland ; but that they are not related directly to volcanic agency in the vast majority of instances is equally obvious .
In no case can we consider the surface-waters of supply descending many miles under ground ; so that thermal waters , such as those of the British Islands and of a large portion of Europe , cannot be viewed as manifestations of volcanic activity , but as due to the surface-waters descending a certain moderate depth ( which can :ot be great , as no absolutely boiling spring is known except close to volcanoes ) , getting heated by the warmer beds below and l.eascending .
We must therefore view the vast majority of the thermal springs of the globe in the light , not of volcanic phenomena at all , but as simply one of the means by which hypogeal heat is carried to the surface to be dissipated by radiation .
It becomes an interesting inquiry in relation to our subject to estimate whether in this aspect the influence of thermal springs is great , or what proportion of the total heat lost annually by our globe is thus brought to the surfacc .
The writel has attempted this estimate in the following The thermal springs of Eulope are those best known ; next to these , perhaps , may be viewed those of India as catalogued by the Messrs. SCHLAGENTHWEIT .
Adopting DAUBENY'S catalogue ( ' Volcanoes , ' \amp ; c. ) for the former , there are in Europe 154 hot springs scattered over an area of , millions of square miles , evolving 6577353752 cubic fact of water per annum at a mean temperature of Fahr. above the mean annual temperature of the localities .
In India ( as comprehended in the above catalogue ) there are about 100 hot springs scattered over an alea of million of square miles , evolving 4345000000 cubic feet of water per annum at a mean temperature of Fahr. above the mean annual temperature ( taken for all India as Fahr These together , therefore , distributed over an area of 5 millions of square miles ( of tropical and temperate latitudes ) evolve about 10862353752 cubic feet of water per annum at a general mean ( quantity and temperature both taken into account ) of Fahr. If , now , we assume that all the remainder of the dry land of our globe like thermal springs in like abundance , then the total evolution annually from the 52 millions of square miles of dry land is 112968337520 cubic feet at Fahr. above the mean temperature of the loc lities .
That is equivalent to cubic feet of water yaised from to 21 Fahr. , or to cubic mile of water boiling under 1 atmosphere brought to the surface per annum .
If , now , from the insufficient character of our data , and especially as respects South America and Africa , we suppose that the above estimate does not comprise more than .
ROBERT MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENEBGY .
one half the volume of hot water really brought annually to the surface , or that the mean temperature of the hot water is below the truth , and if we double the result so to include these , we find that the totality of the thermal waters of our globe does not probably exceed half a cubic mile of boiling water per annum , the equivalent of which in melted ice at shows that the entire amount of hypogeal heat thus carried off is not the one thousandth part of the total a , nnual heat lost by globc , as taken at 777 cubic miles of ice melted to water at Whether , therefore , thermal springs be viewed as mere adjuvants to the dissipation at the surface of hypogeal heat , or as products of volcanic heat directly and instances , their influence is insignificant , and does not affect views contained in the text .
B. Heat and work from Derived from the work done in crushing quartz in Victoria Colony Goldfields .
Taken from R. B. ' Goldfields of Victoria , ' royal , 1869 , p. 54.3 .
of each stamp-head . .
to ( 1 ) Ballarat ( 2 ) Beechworth 448 , , ( 3 ) Sandhurst . . .
560 S96 ( 4 ) Marybois . . . .
448 , , S40 General average lbs. ( 5 ) Castlemaine . . .
, , 840 ( 6 ) Aralat 560 , , 784 ( i ) Gippsland 336 S96 Averae$ 424 to SCOJ Each stamp-hwad ( 1 ) to 50 to 80 strokes per minute .
( 2 ) , , 45 , , SO ( 3 ) , , 45 , , 72 ( 4 ) , , 60 , , SO ( 5 ) , , 35 , , 80 ( 6 ) , , CO , , SU , , , 70 SO Average to to , , General avelage ) nd strokes per minute .
MR. MALLET ON VOLCANIC ENERGY .
The specific heat of silicic anhydride , Si , is given by WATTS ( Chem. Dict .
" " Hcat vol. .
p. 32 as , water being unity ; by my detelmination of quartz from Wicklow , Ireland .
Specific heat of quartz ( HERMANN ) GMELIN'S Handbook , ( REGNAULT ) vol. .
p. 245 .
Now the average of the whole data results in these:\mdash ; .
falling foot times per minute for 24 houls , Produces .
of quartz in powder , meshes per square inch ; or feet per minute for 24 hours , or minutes ) feet .
That is , feet foot-pounds , being the work ?
to crush to powder .
of quartz , or foot-pounds per llb .
of qualtz , or foot-pounds foot-pounds per cubic foot of qualtz of specific Then , dividing by equivalent , we have rees Fahrenheit in .
of water as the cquivalent of the work per cubic foot of quartz ; or , as steam from water at of 1 atmosphere and therefore at ) contains units of heat , the of crushing 1 cubic foot of quartz would vaporize at 212 degrees .
of water , for : : gives Now let us take the results , not from general averages , but the and data given , to the fineness of the ized quartz that the finest powder is due to the largest expenditure of ) owel .
Then , first , we have from what precedes , that ( highest ) foot times per minute produces in 24 hours .
of quartz-powder of fineness to pass through parts of a square inch , or feet per minute , or feet per day of ours , which is feet foot-pounds , being the donc to .
of quartz , or foot-pounds expcnded lb. of or foot-pounds per cubic foot of quartz ; and dividing by degrees Fahrenheit in 1lb .
water as the equivalent of the crushing work of 1 cubic foot of quartz-powder of of a square inch of fineness .
Secondly , we have the lowest data , viz. that 424 lbs. falling foot times per minute produces .
of quartz-powder of a fineness of a square inch in 24 hours .
Assuming in both calculations that the greatest power is consumed in producing the smallest quantity in total of the finest powder , then .
falling fact feet per minute , or feet per 24 hours , which is 424 lbs. foot-pounds , being the work to crush .
of quartz , or foot-pounds expended per pound of quartz , or foot-pounds per cubic foot of quartz ; and dividing by Fahr. in .
of water as the equivalent of the crushing work of one cubic foot of quartz-powder of of a square inch fineness .
We thus come to this : of a square inch , allowing say inch for the diameter of the of the gauze or screen , was about inch average diameter of the fragments ; of a square inch , same allowance , was about inch average diameter of fi.agments ; of a square inch , same allowance , was about average diameter of ments .
Then the proportionate foot-pounds to sizes of fragments and equivalent of heat are ( omitting decimals):\mdash ; Size . . . . .
Foot-pounds .
Heat , degrees Fahr. 9065o 2325o These results are valuable , from the general corroboration they afford of the correctness of the results as to crushing experimentally given in the body of this paper .
The friction of the -machinery is , as may be seen , excluded from our calculation ; and except what small amount of power due to the fall of the ' stamp-head\ldquo ; may be consumed in splashing about the water constantly flowing over the crushing quartz , there is almost no power consumed except directly in the pulverization of the quartz .
C. Work of crushing , derived experiments ( Phil. Trans. 1862 ) on Holyhead The hardest quartz rock .
Across lamination crushed with .
on the square inch .
Parallel with lamination 20,000 Mean of quartz both ways 28,500 lbs. Then , on a cubic foot , .
to crush ; and supposing the cube all cl.ushed to powder and dissipated laterally , then this pressure would have descended 1 foot ; we thel.efore have the work of crushing the 1 foot cubc1 and Fahr. in 1 lb. of water .
This result , however , is below the truth , as the qualtz rock was not crllshed absolutely to powder .
llDCCCLxxur .

