438 Messrs. B. Moore and D. P. Rockwood .
On \lt ; 'On the Condition in which Fats are absorbed from the Intestine .
" By B. Moore and D. P. Rockwood .
Communicated by Professor E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received December 24 , 1896 , \#151 ; Read February 4 , 1897 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of University College , London .
) In 1858 Dr. W. Marcel* announced to this Society the discovery that bile possesses the remarkable property of dissolving to a clear solution large amounts of fatty acids , and mixtures of these , when heated above their melting points , and that , on cooling , these bodies are again thrown out as a fine precipitate or emulsion .
We have repeated these experiments , and are able to confirm the accuracy of Marcet 's observation .
Thus we found that 6 c.c. of dog 's bile at 62 ' C. dissolved completely 1*5 grams of the mixed fatty acidsf of beef suet , and similar solubilities were found in other cases .
Ho other observations than these have , so far as we are aware , been made on the effect of temperature on the solubility of fatty acids in bile ; although different writers have mentioned that fatty acids are soluble in bile , no measurements have been made of the extent of their solubility .
AltmannJ has recently surmised that fats are absorbed from the intestine as fatty acids , dissolved in the intestine by the agency of the bile , but has made no quantitative experiments on the solubilities of the fatty acids in bile .
The forgotten experiments of Marcet , mentioned above , led us to think that the fatty acids might possess , at the temperature of the , a fair \#166 ; amount of solubility in bile , and as the solubility at this temperature is that of most physiological interest , we have made a series of determinations of the solubilities of oleic , palmitic , and stearic acids , and of natural mixtures of these in the proportions in which they occur in lard , beef suet , and mutton suet , in the bile of the ox , pig , and dog .
Different methods were used in the determination of these solubilities :\#151 ; 1 .
To a measured amount of the bile under experiment , kept at a temperature of 39 ' C. , small weighed quantities of the fatty acid cinder experiment were added , until no more dissolved .
2 .
A quantity of bile was saturated at 39 ' C. , with excess of the fatty acid , and filtered from the excess of undissolved acid through a * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1858 , vol. 9 , p. 306 .
f Throughout this communication the expression " fatty acids " means the fatty acids present in fats , oleic , palmitic , and stearic acids .
% ' Arch. f. Anat .
u. Physiol. , ' 1889 , Anat.-Abth .
, Suppl. Band , p. 86 .
Condition in which Fats are absorbed from the Intestine .
439 hot funnel , at this temperature ; the filtrate was cooled to about 0 ' C. } and the precipitate collected , dissolved in ether , recovered therefrom , and weighed ; the weight , compared with the volume of the filtrate , gave a measure of the solubility .
3 .
To a series of equal volumes ( 10 c.c. ) of bile in test-tubes , a rising series of weights of fatty acids was added ( 005 , O'l , 0-15 , 0'2 , \amp ; e. , grams ) , and those tubes noted , in which , after the lapse of a sufficient time at 39 ' C. , complete solution did not take place .
The following is a summary of our results .
Lard fatty acids.* Beef suet acids .
Mutton suet acids .
Oleic acid .
Palmitic and stearic acids .
1 .
Ox bile ... .
2 '5\#151 ; 4 p. c. 2 '5\#151 ; 3 p. c. 1\#151 ; 2 -5 p. c 4\#151 ; 5 p. c. Less than 0 *5 p. c. 2 .
Pig 's bile . .
4 5-6 " 1-2*5 " \#151 ; \#151 ; 3 .
Bog 's bile . .
6*25 " - 4-7 " 1 2 \#151 ; \#151 ; The fatty acids are not dissolved as soaps , but probably as fatty acids , for the solution becomes strongly acid ; moreover , the material thrown out on cooling dissolves easily in ether , and , when recovered , saponifies at once with sodium carbonate .
The solution is not entirely due to the bile salts , for mere removal of the " bile mucin " greatly diminishes the solvent power , although the " mucin " redissolved in sodium.carbonate solution has no solvent power , and , again , a solution of mixed bile saltsf stronger than bile has not nearly so much solvent power as the bile itself .
Palmitic and stearic acids are very feebly soluble in bile at 39 ' C. , and in mixtures are probably dissolved by the aid of the admixed oleic acid .
Action of Filtered Intestinal Contents on Fats .
The filtered intestinal contents contain both pancreatic juice and bile , and hence should both decompose and dissolve fats at body temperature if these are absorbed as dissolved fatty acids ; this was experimentally found to be the case with filtered intestinal contents of the dog , which in different cases possessed a very variable * Ihe numbers given are the minimum and maximum of a number of determinations in different samples of bile .
t The solution used was a 9 per cent , solution of the bile salts of a sample of ox bile which dissolved 2'5 per cent , of the fatty acids of beef suet ; this solution oi bile salts only dissolved 1 per cent. VOL. LX .
2 L 440 Messrs. B. Moore and D. P. Rockwood .
On the power , dissolving 1 to 5 per cent , of the fat of beef suet at 39 ' C. The solution becomes viscid , semi-fluid , or completely solid on cooling , and redissolves on warming again .
With the filtered contents of the intestine of the pig and rabbit similar results were not obtained , but the fat became altered , being in part converted into fatty acids , and in part giving rise to a voluminous precipitate .
Simultaneous Action of Pancreas and Bile on Fats .
Finely minced , fresh dog 's pancreas ( 1 gram ) was added to bile ( 10 c.c. ) , and then the fat of beef suet ( 0'25 gram ) ; the fat completely dissolved in three hours at 40 ' C. ; on cooling , the solution became turbid , and finally semi-solid .
In a control experiment , pancreas alone decomposed fat into fatty acids , but did not dissolve it .
The solubilities stated above are quite sufficient to account for the removal of all the fat of the food from the intestine as dissolved fatty acid , since they exceed the concentrations found in the intestine of other materials , such as sugars and albumoses , which are removed in solution .
Other experiments , however , on the reaction of the intestine during fat absorption , lead us to think that all the fat is not removed as dissolved fatty acids , but that these are replaced to a variable extent ( in some animals , to a very large extent or completely ' ) by dissolved soaps .
Reaction of Intestinal Contents during Fat Absorption .
We have determined the reaction of the contents of the dog 's small intestine during fat absorption , from pylorus to caecum , to various indicators , litmus , methyl-orange , and phenolphthale in , and cannot agree with the statement of some other experimenters , that it is acid throughout.* In sixteen experiments on this animal we only once found the reaction acid to litmus up to the caecum , and this was an obviously poor experiment , in which the intestine was almost empty .
The reaction to litmus at the pylorus is neutral , faintly acid , or faintly alkaline ; from here onwards the acidity increases , reaches a maximum about the middle of the small intestine , and then becomes less acid , to change to alkaline at a point situate two-thirds to three-fourths of the way along the intestine ; from this point on to the caecum the alkalinity increases . !
" The reaction to methjl-orange and phenolphthale in explains this ; the intestine is alkaline to methyl-orange all the way from pylorus to caecum , and equally com* Cash , ' Arch. f. Anat .
a. Physiol. , ' 1881 , p. 386 j Munk , 'Zeitsch .
f. Physiol. Chem. , ' vol. 9 , 1885 , pp. 572 , 574 .
+ There is usually a reversion to an acid reaction in the large intestine , in v luc i case the contents of the ca ?
cum are almost neutral .
Condition in which Fats are absorbed from the .441 pletely acid to plienolphthalein , showing that the acid reaction to litmus in the upper part is due to wealc organic , while the alkaline reaction in the lower is due to fixed alkali , accompanied by dissolved carbonic acid .
The alkaline reaction to methyl-orange in the upper pai't , where it is acid to litmus and phenolphthalem , shows that in that part there is an excess of bases , above that quantity necessary to combine with all the inorganic acids , which are combined with very weak organic acids ( probably fatty acids ) , for methyl-orange is a stable indicator , and does not react to such acids , while litmus , and , still more so , phenolphthalein , are indicators which are affected by these acids .
In the lower third or thereabouts , where the reaction is alkaline to litmus , there cannot be any fatty acids present in solution .
Any fat absorbed as free fatty acid in solution must , therefore , be taken up from the upper two-thirds or three-fourths of the intestine where the reaction is acid to litmus , but even here a considerable part is probably being absorbed in solution as soaps , as is shown by the reaction being at the same time alkaline to methyl-orange .
In the lower part all the fat absorbed must be taken up as soaps .
During fat absorption in the white rat , * the reaction of the contents of the small intestine is commonly alkaline to litmus from pylorus to caecum , and is never acid for a greater distance than 2 or 3 in .
below the pylorus ; in this animal , therefore , nearly all the fat must be absorbed in solution as soaps .
We have not investigated the reaction of the intestinal contents in other animals during fat absorption , but in the rabbit , during carbohydrate absorption , it is strongly alkaline all the way , from pylorus to ceecurn , and in the pig the mixed contents during the absorption of a mixed meal ( meal and oats ) had a strong alkaline reaction .
As already stated , the filtered contents in these animals do not perfectly dissolve fat , and the portion dissolved must be in the form of soap , because the reaction remains alkaline to litmus after solution .
In such animals it is probable that the greater part of the fat must be absorbed as soaps .
The main objections which have been urged ' against absorption of fats as soaps are , first , absorption in presence of an acid reaction in the dog , in which case it was supposed impossible that soaps could be present simultaneously in solution , f and , secondly , that the * In this* animal the intestinal contents are usually semi-solid .
Care was taken to mix them so as not to obtain the alkaline surface reaction sometimes described .
On thorough mixing an alkaline reaction was obtained .
f The acid reaction is also commonly supposed to preclude the possibility of the formation of an emulsion , and Cash ( 'Arch .
f. Anat .
u. Physiol. , ' 1881 , p. 386 ) , in experiments chiefly made to determine this point , failed to find any emulsion within the dog s intestine .
In ten out of sixteen experiments we obtained more or less emulsion , and in five of these , in almost the entire length , a perfect emulsion , containing immense numbers of minutest fat globules , possessing a marked acid l 2 442 Prof. Ramsay and Mr. Travers .
Gaseous amount of alkali required in the intestine for the absorption of all the fats of a fatty meal , as soaps , is out of all proportion to the amount actually present , being about twice the total alkalinity of the body.* The first objection has already been discussed ; it has been shown that the acid reaction is due to weak organic acids , and that an alkaline reaction can be obtained by the use of a proper indicator , due to a compound of these weak acids with bases ; in other words , to soaps .
The second objection may be met by the supposition that the same quantity of alkali acts cyclically as a carrier in conveying quantity after quantity of fatty radicle , as soap , from the intestine .
The soaps are , it is known , broken up in the intestinal cells , and formed into fats by the action of the cell ; in such a reaction alkali is set free , and there is no obvious reason why it should not be returned to the intestine and serve to carry a fresh portion of fatty radicle dissolved as soap into the epithelial cells .
Such an action takes place in the acid secreting cell of the gastric gland , where sodium chloride is taken up from the blood , split into acid and alkali , and the alkali returned to the blood while the acid passes into the gland lumen ; it is not , therefore , unreasonable to suppose that a similar action can take place in the intestinal absorbing cell .
We conclude that in certain animalssuch as the dog , fats are absorbed partially as dissolved fatty acids , and partially as dissolved while in other animals , such as the white rat , fats are chiefly , if not entirely , absorbed as dissolved soaps .
" The Gaseous Constituents of certain Mineral Substances and Natural Waters .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , and Morris W. Travers , B.Sc. Received December 30,1896 , \#151 ; Read February 4 , 1897 .
It is still uncertain whether helium is a single elementary gas or a mixture of two or more gases .
If a mixture , it is probable that they should occur independently , and that the proportion of the constituent gases should vary in samples from different sources .
During the past year the gases obtained from a large number of minerals and natural waters have been examined with a view to investigate this point , and , also , to determine whether any new gaseous element could be discovered .
In every instance the results have been negative ; no reaction to litmus .
Although fats are not absorbed in the form of an emulsion , it is evident that the formation of an emulsion in the intestine must enormously increase the surface exposed to the action of the intestinal fluids , and proportionately increase the rate at which the fats are decomposed and dissolved .
* Munk , ( Yircliow 's Archiv , ' vol. 95 , 1884 , p. 408 .

