The Blood-corpuscle considered in its different Phases of Development in the Animal Series .
Memoir II.-Invertebrata .
By T. WHARTON JONES , F.R.S. , Lecturer on Anatomy , Physiology and Pathology , at the Charing-Cross Hospital , 5'c .
Received May 8 , -Read June 19 , 1845 .
THE invertebrate animals , of which I am here about to consider the blood-corpuscle in its different phases of development , are some of the more readily procurable examples of the divisions Annulosa and Mollusca .
The order in which I purpose to proceed is from the higher to the lower classes of each division , an order the contrary of that adopted in the case of the Vertebrata .
ANNULOSA .
1 .
My examples of Annulosa are from the classes of Crustacea , Arachnida , Insecta , and Annelida .
Examination of the Blood-corpuscles of Crustacea .
2 .
As examples of Crustacea I have taken Crabs and Lobsters .
Blood-corpuscles of Crabs .
3 .
By snipping off the end of one of the legs of a Crab , the blood flows fr'eely out from the stump , and is thus readily obtained* .
A small quantity of the blood being received on a plate of glass direct from the animal , and forthwith examined under the mnicroscope , it is seen to contain a very considerable number of corpuscles .
4 .
Kinds of Corpuscles.-Both granule-cells and nucleated cells , the latter the more numerous , -may be distinctly recognised .
5 .
Shape of the Cells.-If very great expedition has been ermployed in receiving the blood as it florws from the animal on the plate of glass , spreading it out and transferring it to the microscope for examination , the granule-cells may be seen to be of an elongated oval shape , the nucleated cells spindle-shaped ( figs. 1 and 6 .
) .
These shapes however are speedily changed .
6 .
As regards the granule-cell , it tends to become ciitcular ( figs. 2 and 3 .
) , btt it is also soon observed that its cell-wall bulges out here and therie into round processes which again subside , whilst another part of the cell-wall bulges out in the saime way .
This change of shape , it will be perceived , is simnilar to that which I particularly described in the case of the granule-cell of the blood of the Skate , only it is to be remarked , that it is not accompanied by such a well-marked movement of the contained granules .
Besides bulging out into round processes , the cell-wall may be seen to shoot out into cilia-like processes also ( fig. 4 .
) .
7 .
As regards the nucleated cell , it also first tends to become circular , and then shoots out its wall into processes which are usually more cilia-like than in the case of the granule-cell ; and being in all directions like radii , the cell comes to present a stellate appearance ( figs. 7 , 8 , 9 .
) .
Sometimes a cell is seen to shoot out into processes in two principal directions only , these processes again shooting out into smaller , so that the cell acquires a caudate form .
Between this shape and the former there is every intermediate degree .
8 .
Size of the Cells.-When first examined , and before their shape has become changed , the granule-cells are about 1-s 8th of an inch long by about s-o-th of an inch broad .
The nucleated cell is rather less in size , or perhaps with about the same length ; it is not quite so broad .
9 .
Structure of the Granule-cell.--There are both coarsely and finely granular stages of the granule-cell .
The granules appear more or less fused together , and are of a slightly greenish yellow colour when the micrioscopical examination is tmade by day-light .
10 .
By the addition of water the cell-wall is brought out very distinctly .
Imbibing the water , the cell becomes distended and acquires a circular shape , and this as well after it has shot out into processes as when the water is added to the blood just drawn , and before the cell has lost its original shape .
Fig. 5 a. represents a granulecell as acted on by water .
11 .
In consequence of acetic acid prloducing a copious white curdy precipitate on its addition to the blood , some difficulty was at first experienced in studying the action of that acid on the blood-cells , but by previously diluting thie blood with much water , the precipitate was not considerable enotgh to prevent the observation of the action of the acetic acid on the blood-cells .
12 .
When the acid comes into contact with the granule-cell , the granulous mass is dissolved , the granules disappearing one after the other , as already described in regard to the granule-cell of the Skate , &amp;c. After the solution of the granulous mass , there is discovered in the interior of the cell , a cellaeformn nucleus about -oo -oth of an inch in diameter ( fig. 5 b. ) .
13 .
A clear spot which may be observed on the side of the granule-cell in blood just drawn ( figs. 1 , 2 , 3 .
) , and which is simnilar to that presented by the granule-cell of the blood of the Skate , appears to be , as in the Skate , prodiuced by the nucleus peeting through a pore in the granulous mass .
Structure of the Nucleated Cell.-By the action of water , the nucleated cell is distended and rendered circular even after it has shot out processes and acquired a stellate appearance .
During this action of the water , the processes of the cell-wall may be observed to become broader and shorter , and to run into each other until the outline of the whole cell is circular , as in fig. 10 .
Within the cell thus distended , the cellaeform nucleus is seen circular , and about g-5---th of an inch in diameter .
15 .
By the addition of dilute acetic acid , the nucleated cell is not further materially affected .
16 .
Although a decided colouired stage of nucleated cell does not exist in the blood of the Crab , it is proper to observe that many of the nucleated cells transmit the light through their interior of a very slight ied tint .
The circumferential doubling of the cell-wall transmitting the light quite colourless , forms with the interlior a well-marked contrast .
Though the red tint is more marked by lamp-light , it is sufficiently distinct by day-light .
It has been above mentioned , that when the corpuscles collected in a mass are viewed by reflected light , they also appear slightly pink .
17 .
Besides granule-cells and nucleated cells such as have now been described , cells occur in which the cellaeforil nucleus is already visible , but still-surrounded by some granulous matter ( fig. 11 .
) .
These may be viewed as cells in a state of transition from granule to nucleated cell .
18 .
It may thus be concluded , that in Crabs the blood-corpuscle presents itself in two different phases of development , as in the oviparous Vertebrata , viz. the phases of granule-cell and of nucleated cell , the granule-cell being the first phase of development , the nucleated cell the second phase .
19 .
Floating about amongst the blood-corpuscles , there are seen a few elementary granules , the larger of which , from --l-ooth to i2 tl0 of an inch in diameter , have the form of biconcave circular discs .
Blood-corpuscles of the Lobster .
20 .
The description which has now been given of the blood-corpuscles of the Crab , is in all respects applicable to those of the Lobster* .
Examination of the Blood-corpuscles of Arachnida .
21 .
It was the common Spider the blood of which I examtined ; and the inode in which I obtained the blood was the same as that already stated in regard to the Crab and Lobster , viz. by snipping off one of the legs and receiving on a plate of glass the minute drop of blood which oozed out .
22 .
The blood-corpuscles of the Spider are almost identical with those of the Crab and Lobster .
There are both granule-cells and nucleated cells , the latter the more numerous , -which when examined immediately on the blood being drawn from the itnimal , present , the former an oval , the latter an elliptical shape ( figs. 1 , 2 and 7 .
) .
These shapes , however , are in general soon lost .
The cells become roundish , their cell-wall at the same time shooting out into processes .
This shooting-out of the cellwall into processes is more especially presented by the gtanule-cells ( fig. 3 .
) , for in the case of the nucleated cell , it might be said that the cell-wall in general rather becomes shrivelled and collapsed than shoots into cilia-like processes ( fig. 8 .
) .
23 .
The size of the corpuscles is much the same as in the Crab .
24 .
There are both coarsely and finely granular stages of the granule-cell ( figs. I and 2 .
) , and also cells in transition from the granule to the nucleated phase .
25 .
By the action of water , the cell-wall of both granule and nucleated cell is distended and brought out in the same way as in the case of the blood-cells of the Crab ( fis .
4 , 5 and 9 .
) , and by the action of acetic acid the granules of the granule-cells are broken up and dissolved , leaving the nucleus exposed ( fig. 6 .
) .
26 .
In regard to a coloured stage of nucleated cell , what was above said in the case of the Crab ( par .
16 .
) , is applicable here .
27 .
As in the blood of the Crab also , a few elementary granules are seen floating about .
Examination of the Blood-corpuscles of Insecta .
28 .
In entering on the examrrination of the blood-corpuscles of insects , the advantage of having first examined those of Crabs and Spiders is st.rongly felt ; for the blood of these animals being readily and certainly obtainable free from admixture with foreign particles , which might be confounded with blood-corpuscles , the chtaracters of their blood-corpuscles will serve as a guide by which to recognise their analogues in the blood of insects and other invettebrate animals , the conformation and structure of the bodies of which are such that we cannot be sure that the blood obtained from them is quite free from foreign admixture .
29 .
As examples of perfect insects I have taken Beetles , and as examples of chrysalises I have taken those of the Cabbage Butterfly* .
Blood-corpuscles of Beetles .
30 .
The matter examined as the blood of these insects was the clear greenish I have also examined the blood-corpuscles of the Caterpillar , and found them in essential particulars the same .
Having , however , as yet obtained but one specimen of a caterpillar of the Cabbage Butterfly , I am not able to give here a description and delineation of the blood-corpuscles .
This , however , I shall be able to do on another occasion .
yellow fluid which exuded when a small wound was made in the body of the animal .
31 .
In this fluid there were recognised , amidst a number of other corpuscles the nature of which will be inquired into below , corpuscles corresponding in essential characters to the granule and nucleated blood-cells of the Crab and Spider .
32 .
Granule Blood-cells.-These were .
when seen immediately on the blood being drawn , of an elliptical or oval shape ( fig. 1 .
) , but they soon became round .
In this state some might be seen with the cell-wall shot out into small cilia-like processes ( fig. 2 .
) .
By the action of water , the cell becoming distended , these processes disappeared ( fig. 3 .
) .
33 .
The size of the cells under consideration was on an average --6l-oth of an inch long by m-oLath broad .
34 .
The cells were most of them pale-looking , but some presented coarser and more refracting granules than others .
35 .
Nucleated Blood-cells.-These were much more numeirous than the granule blood-cells .
When the blood was first examined on being drawn , the cellaefolr nucleus , of an oval shape , measuring 35oth by about o , th of an inch , and reddish in its interior , was the part most distinctly seen .
The cell-wall , which might sometimes be seen of an elliptical shape ( fig. 4 .
) , was in general already found shrivelled and collapsed around the cellaeform nucleus , or shot out into processes ( fig. 5 .
) .
It was extremely pale and not always very readily distinguished .
On the addition of water , however , it becarme distended and was then pretty distinctly seen ( fig. 6 .
) .
In this state it was circular and measured about -2ooth of an inch in diameter .
36 .
In regard to the other kinds of corpuscles contained in the blood of the Beetle , they were , lst , -a few corpuscles resembling the cellaeformr nuclei of the nucleated cells , but around which no cell-wall could be detected ; 2nd , some oil-globules ; 3rd , a great number of elementary granules in size from about -~~ooth of an inch in diameter downwards , the larger being biconcave , circular , and of a yellowish or reddish colour .
Blood-corpuscles of the Chrysalis of the Cabbage Butterly .
37 .
The matter examined as blood was the clear green fluid which flowed out on slight pressure , when a small point of the anterior end of the chrysalis was snipped off .
38 .
In this fluid there were both granule-cells and nucleated cells ( figs. 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 .
) , together with elementary granules .
Examination ( f the Blood-corpuscles of Annelida .
39 .
As examples of Annelida , I have taken the common Earth-worm and the medicinal Leech , 93 WHARlTON JONES ON THE BLOOD-CORPUSCLE CONSIDERED IN Blood-corpuscles of the Earth-worm .
40 .
The blood was most readily obtained for examination from the abdominal vessel , but in abstracting it , care was required to guard against its becoming mixed with the secretion poured out from the skin in great abundance whten the animal was wounded .
41 .
The corpuscles of the blood of the Earth-worm are remarkable for their great size , being on an average 7wth or -W-th of an inch in diatmeter .
There are both granule and nucleated cells .
42 .
Granule Bood-cells.-Of these there are both coarsely and finely granular stages .
I have not observed the cell-wall of the granule-cell in the coarsely granular stageto shoot out into more than perhaps a single bud-like process ( fig. 1 .
) , but in the finely granular stage , the cell-wall shoots out into so many cilia-like processes , that the cell soon after the blood is drawn preserts a stellate form ( fig. 2 .
) , the granulous mass about J t---oh of an inch in diameter occupying the centre .
43 .
By the action of water the granule-cells become uniformily distended ( figs. 3 and 4 .
) , the stellate form into which the cell in the finely granular stage had fallen disappearing .
In this state of distention the cells measure 0lo othl or J , oth of an inch in diameter , but their granulous contents do not fill tteir whole interior .
44 .
Acetic acid causes the granules of the cell in the coarsely granular stage to break up , but does not dissolve their substance .
The granulous contents of the cell in the finely granular stage it renders more transparent .
45 .
Nucleated Blood-cells.--Instead of perfect nucleated cells , the cells about to be described under this hlead mxight , perhaps , rather be said to be cells in transition from the granule-cell phase , inasmuch as the nucleus , though quite evident , is still surrounded by granular matter .
46 .
The cells under consideration have always been collapsed when first seen , though the blood was examined as quickly as possible after being drawn ; but I have observed them in the act of shooting out their cell-wall into processes ( fig. 5 .
) , like the granule-cell in the finely granular stage .
47 .
By the action of water , the processes are made to disappear by the cell becoming uniformly distended .
In this state the cell mreasures about -juth of an inch in diameter , and in its interior is seen the cellveform nucleus about a-oLth of an inch in diameter , with a finely granulous mass surrounding it ( fig. 6 .
) .
This granulous mass is not dissolved entirely by acetic acid , but it is rendered more transparent .
48 .
The red colour of the blood of the Earth-worm is , as is known , seated in the plasma , but it is to be remarked that some of the nucleated cells appear very slightly tinged , as also the nuclei , in their interior .
49 .
Besides the nucleated cells now described , corpuscles are met with altogether like their nucleus and its surrounding granulous mass , both in form and size .
50 .
Lastly , there are a few corpuscles like perfectly free nuclei , and a considerable numtber of elementary granules , the larger , of the form of biconcave circular discs .
Blood-corpuscles of the Medicinal Leech .
51 .
The blood examined was obtained by making incisions on the back or side of the animal after having carefully wiped the surface of the skin .
In making these incisions care was taken not to cut into the stomach , or its caecal appendages , in order to obviate the possibility of foreign blood which might have been taken in as food , becoming mixed with the real blood of the animal itself .
52 .
In the first place it is worthy of remark , that whilst the corpuscles of the blood of the Earth-worm are the largest which I have yet found in any invertebrate animal , the corpuscles of the blood of the Leech are the smallest .
53 .
When the blood of the Leech is examined under the microscope as soon after its abstraction from the animal as possible , numerous corpuscles are seen having the appearance of very pale , shining , colourless , fusiform filaments , about 2 0-0th of an inch in length , and about 7o0-th of an inch in breadth , less or more ( fig. 9 .
) , suspended in the red-coloured plasma .
Very soon , however , the corpuscles are seen gradually to become shorter and somewhat broader , until at last they acquire an irregular circular form ( fig. 10 .
) .
54 .
In this state the majority of the corpuscles appear to be composed of a nucleus surrounded by a collapsed and shrivelled cell-wall .
And that this is so , is reduced to a certainty by the addition of water , ' which causes the cell to become distended and to acquire a circular form , whilst the outline of the cellaeform nucleus appears more distinctly defined ( figs. 11 and 12 .
) .
55 .
Thus distended , the cell is from so3oth to o0th of an inch in diameter , and the nucleus 7--Toth , or more .
56 .
Many of the cells transmit the light slightly tinged red , as if there was some colouring matter lining their interior ( fig. 12 .
) .
57 .
The corpuscles of the blood of the Leech now described , it will have been observed , are nucleated cells .
58 .
Granule-cells.-Corpuscles in the blood of the Leech referrible to this head are few in number .
Examples of them are delineated in figs. 7 and 8* .
My examples of Mollusca are confined to the classes of Gasteropoda and Acephala , -from the former I have taken the Whelk ( Buccinum magnum ) , -from the latter the Mussel ( Mytilus edulis ) , in which to examine the blood-corpuscles .
Blood-corpuscles of the lYhelk .
60 .
The shell having been broken to pieces from around the animal , the blood was readily obtained from the great vessels of the heart , or from the heart itself ; but notwithstanding every care in abstracting it , the blood was not always quite free from admixture with foreign particles , such as ciliated epithelium-cells and the like .
61 .
Kinds of Corpuscles.-There were granule-cells and nucleated cells essentially similar to those of the blood of Annulosa .
62 .
Granule-cells.-By the time the blood could be examined , the granule-cells had , for the most part , become agglomerated together in groups , and their cell-wall was seen already shot out into processes ( fig. 1 .
) .
63 .
Both coarsely and finely granular stages of the granule-cell were to be recognised .
64 .
The size of the granule-cell was on an average from --o00th to 2-oooth of an inch .
65 .
By the action of water the cell became uniformly distended ( fig. 2 .
) , to the size of about as much as 1 Looth of an inch in diameter and then burst , the cell-wall disappearing and leaving the granulous contents in a mass with the nucleus visible in the centre ( fig. 3 .
) .
66 .
Nucleated cells.-Some of these were seen with the cell-wall shot out into processes ( fig. 4 .
) ; some not ( figs. 5 , 6 and 7 .
) .
67 .
Those cells of which the cell-wall did not shoot out into processes , were for the most part circular ( figs. 5 and 6 .
) ; but some also occurred which appeared to be elliptical ( fig. 7 .
) , though these might have been circular cells seen somewhat raised up on edge .
The cells under consideration often presented a finely granulous matter in their interior , and some were slightly tinged of a red colour .
Their size was about 25 00th of an inch in diameter .
68 .
Those cells of which the cell-wall shot out into processes , when uniformly distended by water , were larger , measuring about o6-oth of an inch in diameter ( fig. 4 a. ) .
69 .
The nucleus , oval or circular , and reddish in the interior , measured on an average from l0ooth to 3 50th of an inch , these being the means when the nucleus was oval .
70 .
Besides the corpuscles now described , there were a few like free nuclei , and a great quantity of elementary granules of different sizes , the larger biconcave and circular .
Blood-corpuscles of the Mussel .
71 .
The way in which I obtained the blood of the Mussel was this:-I first removed one valve of the shell with as little injury to the animal as possible , and allowed the contained fluid to drain away ; I then opened the great vessel proceeding from .
the heart to the anterior part of the body , and introducing the microscopical forceps towards the heart , took up enough of the blood for one examination .
Notwithstanding this careful procedure , the blood was often mixed with foreign corpuscles , such as the spermatozoa and ova of the animal .
72 .
Kinds of Blood-corpuscles.---There were in the first place granule-cells , which , like those of the blood of the Whelk , were found by the time the blood could be examined , already for the most part agglomerated together , and presenting their cell-wall shot out into processes ( figs. 1 and 2 .
) .
The granulous contents appeared as if fused , forming a clear , more or less strongly refracting mass .
73 .
By the action of water this mass was broken up into separate granules , and at the same time the cell was observed to become gradually distended and rendered uniformly circular by the undoing of the processes into which its wall had shot , This undoing of the plocesses I have often , as in the case of the blood-cells of other animals , watched step by step .
74 .
When the cell had become fully distended , the granulous contents were usually next seen to escape by the bursting of the cell-wall , and to accumulate around its outside , whilst a nucleus from about ---oN-th to -o-oth of an inch in diameter , and now for the first time seen , remained in the interior ; the cell-wall , different from that of the granule-cell of the Whelk , continuing quite visible and otherwise entire ( fig. 3 .
) .
75 .
Such .
was the condition in which the glanule-cells presented themselves in the blood of fresh mussels .
In the blood of mussels which had been kept for some days in the house without food or change of water , but still alive though weak , the granulecells were found , for the most part , to continue niformnly distended after the blood was drawn , their cell-wall not shooting out into processes ( figs. 4 and 5 .
) .
The contents appeared at the same time more broken up into granules .
In this state the size of the cells was from -jL9-th to 2-o1th of an inch in diameter .
They appeared in both coarsely and finely granular stages .
76 .
Cells in which the , nucleus is already distinctly visible without the application of any reagent , were few in number in the blood of perfectly fresh mussels , but in the blood of 'mussels which had been kept some days , they presented themselves in considerable numbers ( figs. 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 .
) .
77 .
The corpuscles in which a nucleus had thus become distinctly visible were , as they occulred in the blood of fresh mussels , distinguished by the following charac$ters:--Circular but sometimes ovoid , somewhat proninent in the middle , with a ulniform and stron.gly marked contour , of an opaline ; aspect , and measuring on ai average about 24100th of an inch in diameter , many being both smaller and larger ( figs. 6 and 7 .
) .
o2 97 By the action of water the contents of these corpuscles , previously homogeneous looking , adherent to the cell-wall , and concealing the nucleus , became broken up into granules , so that the cell-wall and a nucleus came more.or less distinctly into view , with characters similar to those presented by them after the animals had been kept some time as above mentioned , and which I now proceed to describe ( fig. 8 , ) , 79 .
The cell was generally circular but sometimes oval , and its wall did not shoot out into processes .
It measured on an average 4o00th of an inch , some more , some less .
80 .
The nucleus was circular or oval .
In the former case it measured about 3Ith of an inch in diameter , in the latter , the mean of the two diameters was on an average the same as this .
Some were much elongated but narrow , others short but broad .
81 .
The circular cells had the nucleus either circular or oval , but when the cell was oval the nucleus was oval also , and usually elongated and narrow .
Sometimes the oval nucleus appeared almost free , the cell-wall very much contracted , being attached to one side only .
82 .
In addition to the corpuscles now described , there were observed corpuscles very pale and few in number , apparently the nuclei of the nucleated cells become free and in process of disappearing .
83 .
Lastly , there was a great number of elementary granules ; the larger , of the form of biconcave circular discs , measuring on an average -6Jooth or -'oth of an inch in diameter , less or more .
84 .
It thus results that in all the invertebrate animals in which the blood has now been examined , the blood-corpuscle presents itself in the phases of granule-cell and of nucleated cell ; that in the phase of granule-cell it occurs in more or less wellmaked coars and finely granular stages ; that in the phase of nucleated cell it occurs in the uncoloured stage ; but that as regards a coloured stage , though such cannot be said to be altogether wanting in some of the animals , the coloration of the cell is in a very slight degree .
The cellseform nucleus is found more frequently and more decidedly coloured .
85 .
It also results that corpuscles exist in transition from the phase of granulecell to that of nucleated cell .
86 .
It farther results that corpuscles occur in the blood of some of the animals , which appear to be the nuclei of the nucleated cells become free .
Such , however , are to be viewed as abortions rather than as examples of a third phase , or phase of free cellaeformn nucleus .
87 .
Lastly , it results that corpuscles are met with in greater or less numbers belonging to the category of the lowest forms of organic elements , viz , elementary granules .
J4.ZTe7Z-ars .
AI2IDCCCXL5LIK ?
HZat _T .
c~ Jll7 Rzo61 64 0272666 ` ?
2 &amp; bz/ I VI-ls -h~en 2h , e-r eo9 .
/ &amp; 7zd62/ z.422)1 b22 e4eb 11/ P16Z22j/ U9569 .
6 ?
i-~nze ( ~D7h~ .
2 .
I'%iatsel -A &amp; da ed h. %ih-ee Ceail/ 7217Ka , Vla4~c 7K i !
L1 0 Ir ?
l 8 ; a 5a~3 '~ ... ... --.:i:A7 , I. Id~,3 A.A -4 ; ~ ~~~~~ )4 7~~~~~~3 8~ , , , ; ? ?
7 ~~-7 74 4i ? ?
58 !
0 ?
) ) fl.9 20 Ji7 12 2~L 0 ; ? ? ? ?
: ~ " ~ : : : ?
~,3 ~:~~- : : : i 8~~~1 , d 7 7-7 , 4-M Ai8 . ?
-A1 the objets here de cad are mraytfized 550 d6vmreters .
Y7ze microscope al co pom0u0or y Ross , _ te obJect gaZss '/ Ivzch7. .
iI0I Ad natu..de 4C.atr First Phase.-Granule-cell .
Fig. 1 .
Granule-cell as it appears when the blood is examined immediately on being drawn .
Figs. 2 and 3 .
Granule-cells changed in shape as they appear very soon after the blood has been drawn .
Fig. 4 .
Granule-cell , with the cell-wall in view at the circumference , and shooting out bud-like processes here and there .
Fig. 5 a. Granule-cell after being acted on by water .
Fig. 5 b. Granule-cell after being acted on by acetic acid , The granules have all disappeared by solution , and a small celleeform nucleus has thus come into view .
Second Phase.-Nucleated Cell .
Fig. 6 .
Nucleated cell as it appears when the blood is examined immediately on being drawn .
Figs. 7 , 8 , 9 .
The nucleated cell in different degrees of change of shape .
Fig. 10 .
Nucleated cell after being acted on by water , Fig. 11 .
Another , after being treated in the same way , but still presenting some remains of the granules of the first phase , and a smaller cellaeform nucleus than the preceding .
ARACHNIDA .
SPIDER .
First Phase .
Fig. 1 .
Granule-cell , coarsely granular stage .
Fig. 2 .
Granule-cell , finely granular stage ; both as seen when the blood was examined immediately on being drawn , Fig. 3 .
Granule-cell changed in shape , and with the cell-wall shot out into processes .
Figs. 4 and 5 .
Granule-cells in coarsely and finely granular stages distended by water .
Fig. 6 .
Granule-cell after the granules have been dissolved by acetic acid .
Second Phase .
Fig. 7 .
Nucleated cell as it appeared when the blood was examined immediately on being drawn .
Fig. 8 .
The same , changed in shape , as it appeared soon after the blood was drawn , Fig. 9 .
The same , distended by water .
First Phase .
Fig. 1 .
Granule-cell as it appeared when the blood was examined as soon as possible after being drawn .
Fig. 2 .
The same , changed in shape the cell-wall shot out into processes-as it appeared soon after the blood was drawn , Fig. 3 .
The same , after the action of water .
Second Phase .
Fig. 4 .
Nucleated cell , as it may sometimes be seen when the blood is examined immediately on being drawn .
Fig. 5 .
The same cell , changed in shape .
The cell-wall extremely pale , shrivelled , and shot out here and there into processes .
Fig. 6 .
The same , distended by water .
INSECTA.-CHRYSALIS OF CABBAGE-BUTTERFLY .
First Phase .
Figs. 7 and 8 .
Granule-cells in coarsely and finely granular stages .
Fig. 9 .
Granule-cell , with the cell-wall shot out into processes .
Second Phase .
Fig. 10 .
Nucleated cell of its original shape .
Fig. 11 .
The same , with the cell-wall shrivelled and shot out into processes .
Fig. 12 .
The same , distended by water .
ANNELIDA.-EARTH-WORM .
First Phase .
Fig. 1 .
Granule-cell , coarsely granular stage .
The cell-wall shot out into a single bud-like process .
Fig. 2 .
Granule-cell , finely granular stage .
The cell-wall shot out into cilia-like processes .
Figs. 3 and 4 .
The same cells distended by water .
Second Phase .
Fig. 5 .
Nucleated cell with its cell-wall shot out into processes .
Fig. 6 .
The same , distended by water .
ANNELIDA.-MEDICINAL LEECH .
First Phase .
Figs. 7 and 8 .
Granule-cells .
Second Phase .
Fig. 9 .
Nucleated cell as seen when the blood is examined immediately on being drawn .
Fig. 10 .
The same , changed in shape , as it appeared soon after the blood is drawn .
Figs. 1 and 12 .
Nucleated cells distended by water .
Blood vomited by Medicinal Leech .
Figs. 13 and 14 .
Granule-cells , coarsely and finely granular stages .
Fig. 15 .
A transition cell .
Figs. 16 , 17 and 18 .
Nucleated cells .
MOLLUSCA .
GASTEROPODA .
WHELK .
First Phase .
Fig. 1 .
Granule-cell , with the cell-wall shot out into processes .
Fig. 2 .
The same , distended by water .
Fig. 3 .
The contents and nucleus of the same , set free by the bursting of the cellwall .
Second Phase .
Fig. 4 .
Nucleated cell , with the cell-wall shot out into processes .
Fig. 4 a. The same , distended by water .
Figs. 5 , 6 and 7 .
Nucleated cells , the cell-wall of which did not shoot out into processes .
ACEPHALA.-MUSSEL .
First Phase .
Figs. 1 and 2 .
Granule-cells , coarsely and finely granular stages , with the cell-wall shot out into processes .
Fig. 3 .
Granule cell after the action of water .
Figs. 4 and 5 .
Granule-cells from a mussel which had been kept some time in the house .
Second Phase .
Figs. 6 and 7 .
Cells from the blood of fresh mussels , by the action of water on which a nucleus has been rendered visible , as in fig. 8 .
Figs. 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 .
Nucleated cells found in considerable number in the blood of mussels kept some time , but few in number in fresh mussels .
101

