434 Negative After-Images and Successive Contrast with Pure Spectral Colours .
By A. W. Porter , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , Fellow of University of London , University College , and F. W. Edridge-Green , M.D. , F.R.C.S. , Beit Memorial Research Fellow .
( Received May 28 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) The object of the research was to ascertain the appearance of pure spectral colours after the eye had been fatigued by light of a known wavelength or situated in a portion of the spectrum between two known wavelengths .
The method adopted was as follows:\#151 ; In a dark room , in which , however , there was a certain amount of stray light , a horizontal spectrum as pure as possible was projected upon a screen .
A portion of the retina of one eye was then fatigued by rigidly gazing at a portion of another horizontal spectrum which was isolated in the Edridge-Green colour-perception spectrometer.* The eyes were kept in a vertical position , that is , one over the other , so that the long axis of the after-image would be at right angles to theiindividual colours of the spectrum when the eye resumed its normal position .
After the fatiguing light had been viewed for a period of about 20 seconds the eye was turned to the screen so that the after-image formed a baud'running right across the spectrum on the screen and occupying its centre .
By this means any change either in colour or luminosity in the portion occupied by the after-image could be readily detected on account of the*comparison with the colours of the unaltered spectrum seen above and below ( see Diagram ) .
V B G Y O R The dotted line shows the projected after-image on the screen spectrum .
The fatiguing night was much stronger than the reacting light .
1 .
The eye was first fatigued with pure red light occupying the region \ 654-X 675 .
When the eye was turned to the spectrum on the screen the following changes were noted in the regioh occupied by the after-image : the extreme|red was slightly diminished ; there was no perceptible action on the * 'Roy , Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , B , vol. 82 , p. 458 .
Negative After-Images and Successive .
435 orange , yellow , or green .
There was strong action on the blue and violet , these became much darker and bluer along the line of the after-image .
2 .
The fatiguing light was X 654-X 675 as before , but a filter was interposed in the path of the rays forming the screen spectrum so that only red and orange appeared upon the screen .
After the fatigue the red disappeared but the orange remained .
This was tried with a screen spectrum fairly strong and also very weak , with the same result .
3 .
After exposure to X654-X 675 ( orange-red ) a sodium flame was viewed and found to be very little affected in the region of the after-image ( no effect , A. W. P. ) ( slightly greener , E.-G .
) , though the green-blue after-image was very strongly marked on either side of the sodium flame .
4 .
The fatiguing range was X 619-X 631 ( orange ) .
The dark blue afterimage was seen right across the spectrum except in the region of the orange , which appeared unaffected .
5 .
The fatiguing range of X 619-X 631 was also used with a screen spectrum showing only orange and red .
The same result was obtained as with the red , namely , the red disappeared , being replaced by the green-blue after-image , whilst the orange appeared unaffected .
6 .
Fatiguing range , X 585-X 595 ( orange-yellow ) .
Purple after-image seen right across spectrum .
The red was affected most .
The general impression was that the band appeared as if painted over the spectrum .
7 .
Fatiguing range , X 545-X 550 ( yellow-green ) .
Purple after-image similar .
to above and effects similar to X 585-X 595 , least effect in orange .
8 .
Fatiguing light , X 496-X 500 ( blue-green ) .
Exactly the same effect as before , with X 545-X 550 .
Orange least affected ; purple not red afterimage .
When an after-image was projected on a sodium flame , no effect ( A. W. P. ) , ( slightly redder , E.-G .
) .
9 .
Fatiguing light , X 475-X 480 ( blue ) .
After-image reddish-purple , no action on red and orange , the after-image seen over the rest of the spectrum .
10 .
Fatiguing light , X 445-X455 ( blue ) .
After-image yellow-green ( A. W. P. ) or orange ( E.-G .
) ; violet and blue cut off , green and red made yellower .
When a filter was used so that only green and red were seen on the screen , the green was cut out by the after-image , but the red was unaffected .
11 .
Fatiguing light , X 425-X436 ( violet ) .
The after-image was green , which made the violet and blue appear green , and made the green appear slightly a yellower green , and did little or nothing to red or orange .
12 .
Another method was now adopted , so that a definite and sudden reduction of luminosity in the spectrum on the screen could be obtained when required .
This was accomplished by the interposition of Nicol prisms in the path of the light forming the spectrum on the screen .
The eyes 436 Mr. A. W. Porter and Dr. F. W. Edridge-Green .
[ May 28 , being vertically over one another , the horizontal spectrum on the screen was viewed through the Wratten and Wainwright red filter , so that only red and orange were visible .
The spectrum being at its greatest luminosity was viewed for about 20 seconds , and then , at the same time as the filter was removed and the eye was turned to its normal position , the Nicol was rotated and the intensity of the spectrum much reduced .
The blue band under these conditions stretched right across the spectrum , whereas when the spectrum was not reduced so much ( though still much reduced ) the orange and yellow were predominant , and showed no change .
| 13 .
The same process was tried by fatiguing the eye with light through a Wratten and Wainwright blue filter ( blue-green ) .
There was no effect unless the spectrum on the screen was very much enfeebled ; in that case a practically black after-image , but if a stronger fatiguing source were used a feeble red after-image , was seen .
14 .
A Wratten and Wainwright green filter was now used in the same way , and the screen spectrum was afterwards much reduced .
A purple band , having least effect on the brightest parts , yellow and orange , was seen stretching across the spectrum .
15 .
A yellow band was formed on screen of about \ 570 , obtained by use of a second slit placed in the focal plane where the spectrum was first formed ; the light let through being then projected on screen .
It was not quite pure , but contained a little yellow-green and orange mixed with the yellow ; it , however , appeared as pure yellow on the screen .
When the eye was fatigued by light through the red filter , the after-image on the yellow band was grey or black ; no tinge of colour was seen unless fatiguing light was very bright ( direct arc seen through red filter ) , when the yellow image on screen became green .
The eye was now fatigued by light from a separate spectroscope , and the effects noted on the subsequent appearance of the after-image after the spectrum on the screen had been viewed .
The process adopted was as follows :\#151 ; The eye was fatigued by light of a definite wave-length for 20 seconds and the appearance of the after-image on the spectrum on the screen noted .
The eye was then moved so that the after-image was visible on a dark part of the screen .
16 .
Fatiguing light of the region of the D lines was first selected .
After the eye had been fatigued with this , on looking at the spectrum on the screen a blue band appeared except on the brightest region ( green , yellow , and orange ) .
On then looking at another portion of the screen the blue band appeared continuous , i.e. without any change of tint or intensity , while the after-image of the screen spectrum appeared above and below it .
1912 .
] Negative After-Images and Successive Contrast .
437 17 .
When the same was done after fatiguing with blue light the green of the spectrum also changed , becoming a yellower green , and the image seen afterwards on a fresh part of the screen was an orange band with the afterimage of the spectrum above and below it .
18 .
On fatiguing with red light X 640 the blue-green after-image was seen over all the spectrum with the exception of the yellow , orange , and brightest red ; the after-image on a fresh part of the screen appeared as a blue-green band which was cut into two by the after-image of the spectrum corresponding to the yellow region .
When this experiment was repeated , the spectrum being viewed for a little longer than before , it was found that the blue-green band was cut through by the whole of the spectrum after-image , but it was noticed that the after-image of the spectrum faded away the faster of the two , and then the blue-green band ran continuously across .
19 .
The eye was then fatigued by red on the screen , using the red filter ; the eye was then removed to the eyepiece of the spectroscope , the green-blue image ran across superimposed upon the image whatever part of the spectrum was selected .
20 .
The eye was then fatigued by different regions in the Edridge-Green spectrometer .
A monochromatic region was selected and the eye fatigued in a vertical position ( i.e. one eye over the other ) for 20 seconds .
On assuming the normal position the after-image was seen to cross the region .
No matter what portion of the spectrum was selected the after-image where it crossed the spectral band was seen as a grey square .
Conclusions .
The first point which was evident was the very great importance of the intensity of the light which was used , especially in relation to the reacting light .
In this respect the results are different from those in which the whole eye is fatigued by a very intense light , as in the experiments of Burch , * or by comparatively weak light acting for a prolonged period upon the whole eye , as in the experiments of Edridge-Green and Devereux Marshall . !
As the eye was kept rigidly fixed during the fatiguing process , a very clear cut negative after-image was produced which , when thrown on the screen spectrum , enabled close comparison to be made with adjacent parts .
The stability of the after-image was remarkable ; it did not change colour , and was not influenced by subsequent light falling on the retina when this was not of too great intensity .
The after-image was in every case darker than any dark object on which it was projected .
If the portion of brain having the function of * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1899 , B , p. 1 .
t 'Trans .
Ophth .
Soc. , ' 1909 , p. 211 .
438 Negative After-Images and Successive Contrast , the perception of colour be continually receiving impulses which , affecting it and the visual centre , cause the sensation of light ( Eigenlicht ) which is seen in the absence of all light stimulation , and the whole retino-cerebral apparatus be fatigued by light of a certain wave-length , a negative afterimage will appear through simultaneous contrast .
If one portion of the visual area be less sensitive for impulses caused by light of a certain wavelength ( for instance , red ) , and the adjoining areas be stimulated by impulses corresponding to light of all wave-lengths , the image corresponding to the fatigued area will be relatively blue-green to the images corresponding to surrounding areas .
This explanation on the Edridge-Green theory of colour-vision is in accordance with the other facts of simultaneous contrast.* It would appear as if an inhibitory process took place which prevented light , unless it reached a certain intensity , from being perceived .
In the present state of our knowledge it is impossible to say at what point in the nervous track the inhibitory process takes place , whether there be obstruction to the impulse at any point of the nervous track , or whether the effect be chiefly central .
It is to be noted that when an effect is produced there is very little change in most cases , except when the intensity of the reacting light is the same or less than that of the fatiguing light .
The negative after-image is much darker , more difficult to produce , and more evanescent in the absence of all external light as when black velvet and the hands are placed over the eyes .
It is obvious , therefore , that external light has an influence on negative after-images .
It is impossible to explain these facts on the Hearing and Young-Helmholtz theories of colour-vision:\#151 ; L Hearing .\#151 ; The complementary to the exciting light is never strengthened in the spectrum on the screen by the after-image , and the after-image is not surrounded by the primary colour as it should be according to this theory .
II .
Young-Helmholtz\#151 ; 1 .
The effect of fatiguing the eye with a monochromatic region produces a uniform grey band across this region .
On the Young-Helmholtz theory this should vary in colour and luminosity across its breadth .
2 .
There is no alteration of the after-image by observation of the second spectrum .
3 .
On the Young-Helmholtz theory the after-image should change colour on fading , because of the varying amount of fatigue of the hypothetical colour sensations .
This is not the case .
4 .
Regions like violet , after fatigue to red , should be very little affected , but they are the most affected .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , B. vol. 84 , p. 546 .
Relation between Capillary Pressure and .
, 439 5 .
The fatiguing light should chiefly affect the region used for the fatigue .
This is not the case .
6 .
An after-image should not be seen in the absence of all external light , except such as would arise from the Eigenlicht if this subsidiary hypothesis of Helmholtz be allowed .
In the latter case the after-image should change colour as in all other cases according to this theory .
7 .
On the Young-Helmholtz theory yellow should change to green after fatigue to red , or to red after fatigue to green .
This is not the case .
The Relation between Capillary Pressure and Secretion .
II.\#151 ; The Secretion of the Aqueous and the Intraocular Pressure .
By Leonard Hill , F.R.S. , and Martin Flack ( Eliza Ann Alston Research Scholar ) .
( Received May 29 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory , London Hospital Medical College , London Hospital Research Fund .
) Many observations have been recorded of the- aqueous or intraocular pressure .
The method generally used has been to pass a hollow needle through the cornea and connect this with a manometer .
J. Herbert Parsons* says : " The first essential is . . .
that no fluid shall enter or leave the eye whilst the needle is being inserted .
" It is no less essential that the aqueous shall not escape along the track of the needle or into the manometer .
Although expressing the opinion cited above , Parsons gives the figure of a needle employed by him , which not only has an open end , but also two side holes , one nearer to , one farther from , the open end ; so contrived , he says , to give free admission to the aqueous fluid .
Such a needle seems to us especially liable to allow the escape of the aqueous during insertion .
Starling and E. E. Hendersonf used a needle with an open eyehole , from which fluid was allowed to escape at a pressure conjectured to be greater than the pressure of the aqueous .
By this means they believed to prevent the escape of aqueous during insertion .
It is not certain that this means is effectual , since pressure on the eyeball raises the * The Pathology of the Eye , ' vol. 3 , p. 1049 .
Hodder and Stoughton , London ( undated ) .
t * Journ. Physiol. , ' 1904 , vol. 31 , p. 305 .

