i880 .
] Prof. Gamgee .
A Note on Ill The offspring ( soboles ) are derived from Norwegian statistics of the number of children born to married and unmarried women of the several ages , such facts for England not being available .
As the Life Table represents a population , continuing the same m constitution from year to year , the columns sy , and s"y , show the annual number of children born to women of the several ages and classes ; and the total births of live-bom children in a year are 1,450,910 , of which 55,381 are of illegitimate children .
' By means of simple formulae , the number of children bom in or out of wedlock , to any given number of women at a specified age , can be deduced .
1,000 wives aged 20 bear 401 children , while 1,000 unmarried women of this age bear 11 children ; at age 30 , 1,000 women of each class bear 337 and 29 children ; at age 40 , 210 and 10 children respectively are bom of married and unmarried women .
II .
" A Note on Protagon .
" By Arthur Gamgee , M.D. , F.R.S. , Brackenbury Professor of Physiology in Owens College , Manchester .
Received January 19 , 1880 .
In 1879 , in conjunction with Dr. Ernst Blankenhom , I communicated to the Royal Society a paper entitled " On the Existence of Liebreich 's Protagon in the Brain .
" * In that paper we songht to establish the existence of the body which had been described by Dr. Liebreich , but which had by several writers been considered to be a mixture of lecithin and cerebrin .
We gave many analyses of several samples of protagon , and pointed out the constancy in the composition of the body when subjected to repeated crystallization from alcohol .
I have since the date of the above paper , in conjunction with Herr Adolf Spiegel and Mr. Leopold Larmuth , continued my examination of protagon , and of certain bodies which accompany it .
Our researches , which are not yet in a sufficiently advanced state for publication , have in the fullest degree confirmed the conclusions arrived at by the research of which the results have already been submitted to the Society .
The object of the present communication is to notice certain of the statements which have lately been published by J. L. W\ Thudichum , M.D. , + to the effect that protagon is an impure body consisting of a mixture of many organic substances , and containing in particular considerable quantities of potassium .
44 These inquiries , " says Dr. Thudichum , referring to his own re* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxix , p. 151 .
f " Not\#169 ; and Experiments on the Alleged Existence in the Brain of a Body termed c Protagon ci Annals of Chemical Medicine.'* By J. L. W. Thudichum , M.D. London , 1879 .
Page 254 .
Prof. Gamgee .
A Note on Proiagon .
[ Jan. 29 1 searches , " were already-several years ago extended to the product termed 'protagon ' ; and this , too , was found to contain inorganS constituents irremovable by reerystallization from alcohol , however frequently repeated .
It was found more particularly that 'protagon ' and the bodies into which it can be separated , according to my re searches , always retain considerable quantities of potassium in com. bination .
As the quantity of inorganic ingredients in \#171 ; protagon ' lad never been estimated , I prepared a specimen of this matter and on analysis found it to contain the better part of 1 per cent , of in .
organic incombustible matter , phosphoric acid not included , and in this no less than 076 per cent , of the 'protagon ' of potassium .
" * Having described various experiments in which the above impurj body is supposed to have been resolved into bodies which Dr Thudichum has elsewhere described as proximate principles of the ram ' 116 Proceeds : " The foregoing data enable us to attribute their proper value to the series of operations by which the advocates of protagon have brought about the concordance of their analyses .
The Potassium , which , though present in such quantity that if ' pro- 1 tagon ' were a unitary body its atomic weight would thereby be fixed I they have not found , is calculated as oxygen ; the phosphate of lime j w ich they have not extracted , is made to increase the protagonal \ phosphorus ; the mixture of the myelins , which they have not extracted , I and which they are unable to diagnose , is adjusted by solvents to a \#166 ; convenient quantity , and made to represent the constituent phosphorus i of protagon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..The uniform chemical composition i of the brain greatly favours the obtaining from it , by the aid of processes nearly akin to trimming , of extracts of uniform composi- 1 tion ; this uniformity can be greatly aided by limitations of the 1 quantities of materials operated upon , and of the quantities and I strengths of the solvents ; and by careful observance of these limita- \ tions , preparations are obtained which present a delusive appearance j of definiteness .
But this delusion could only be persevered in by persons who are not in the habit of subjecting their products to tests of purity , and who are not acquainted with the necessity , which is imposed upon every conscientious inquirer , of questioning his products and conclusions in a sense adverse to his hypotheses .
" After reading the above remarks , I determined upon placing in the * The words printed in italics leave some doubt as to the author 's meaning .
It might be supposed that by " 076 per cent , of the 'protagon ' of potassium " he did not mean 076 per cent , of potassium , but much smaller quantities .
Lest there should be any doubt on this point it is necessary to quote the following passage , in which the statement is repeated in plainer terms :\#151 ; " The remaining 30 grms. of protagon once recrystallised ( product N 1*2 ) contained 1-057 per cent , of phosphorus and 076 per cent , of potassium .
" It therefore appears that in the sentence quoted in the text the author means that the potassium amounted to 076 per cent , of the protagon .
1880 .
] Induction of Electric Currents in Infinite , fyc .
113 hands of my friend and colleague , Professor Roscoe , F.R.S. , the only sample available of the protagon of which the analyses had been communicated to the Royal Society ; this was a twice re-crystallized sample of protagon from ox-brain , which had been employed for analyses 3 and 4 .
The remaining specimens had been used in experiments on the products of decomposition of protagon .
I requested Dr. Roscoe , to whom I communicated Dr. Thudichum 's criticism , to determine the amount of mineral impurities , and especially of potassium present in protagon .
He has kindly furnished me with the ensuing report , with which I shall close this communication , as I am convinced that no one will expect me to enter into a polemical discussion with the author of the previously quoted matter .
The Owens College , Manchester , December , 1879 .
I have examined spectroscopically for potash a sample of protagon furnished me by Dr. Gamgee , and labelled " Protagon twice recrystallized .
Blankenhorn .
' ' ' I could not detect any potash by the spectroscope in the incinerated mass from O'l grm. of substance .
With the carbonized mass obtained from l'O grm. of substance I obtained the potassium line ( a ) very faintly , and from comparative experiments with a dilute solution of a potassium salt , I estimate the quantity of potash in 1 grm. of the substance not to exceed mgrm .
The carbonized residue of 1 grm. of protagon was carefully oxidized with pure nitric acid , when a small quantity of fused metaphosphoric acid remained after ignition .
This residue weighed 0'0278 grm. , corresponding to 1'08 per cent , of phosphorus.* ( Signed ) H. E. Roscoe .
III .
" On the Induction of Electric Currents in Infinite Plates and Spherical Shells .
" By C. Niven , M.A. , Professor of Mathematics in Queen 's College , Cork .
Communicated by J. W. L. Glaisher , M.A. , F.R.S. Received January 21 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present paper is to determine the currents which are induced in an infinite plate of uniform conductivity and finite thickness , and in a sphere or spherical shell of any thickness when in the presence of a varying magnetic system : and in any of these bodies when rotating near a constant magnetic system , round an axis which is normal to the faces of the plate or passes through the centre * The mean quantity of phosphorus found by Gamgee and Blankenhorn was T068 per cent.\#151 ; A. G. VOL. XXX .
I

