1872 .
] Dr. H. Y. Carter on the Composition of Urinary Calculi .
81 The occurrence of colourless corpuscles in Leptocephcilus identical in form and character with the Haemoglobin-bearing corpuscles of the blood of other fish , and the apparently capricious distribution of Haemoglobin among Invertebrata , together with the existence of the green oxygen-carrier Chlorocruorin and the pink colouring-matter of the corpuscles of Sipunculus nuclus , suggest the hypothesis of the existence of various bodies not necessarily red , possibly colourless , which act the same physiological part in relation to oxygen as does Haemoglobin .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE I. Fig. 1 .
Glycerct .
Red corpuscles acted on by acetic acid .
Fig. 2 .
Glycera .
Red corpuscles acted on by magenta .
Fig. 3 .
Glycera .
a to / , normal red corpuscles ; g , seen laterally ; h , i , testicular cell-masses ; Ic , leucocyte ; j , l , ova .
Fig. 4 .
Solen legumen .
a , b , c , normal red corpuscles ; d , e , leucocytes of Solen ensis identical with leucocytes of S. legumen , with nucleus stained by magenta .
Fig. 5 .
Solen legumen .
a , c , red corpuscles acted on by dilute acetic acid ; d , e , f g ditto acted on by magenta .
Fig. 6 .
Phoronis hippocrepia .
Red corpuscles acted on by dilute acetic acid .
Fig. 7 .
Sipunculus nudus .
a to g , normal pink-coloured corpuscles of the perivisceral fluid ; b contains a crystal ; h , leucocyte from the same fluid ; i , j\gt ; pink corpuscles ( pneumocytes ) acted on by dilute acetic acid .
II .
" On the Structural Composition of Urinary Calculi .
" By H. Vandyke Carter , M.D. Loud .
Communicated by L. S. Beale , M.D. , F.R.S. Received October 11 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) Having occasion during bis late residence in Western India to remove numerous urinary calculi from persons belonging to the indigenous population , the author was enabled to pursue an inquiry into the character of these concretions which he had begun in the year 1859 by the chemical analysis of a large number of such calculi ; it remained then to make use of the microscope as a means of investigation ; and since no record of a similar systematic inquiry to that now undertaken has been published , so far as known to the author , it was thought desirable that this hiatus in medical bterature should , however imperfectly , be forthwith filled up .
The plan adopted was to submit minute fragments taken from the real or apparent nuclei , and from succeeding layers and crust , of the calculi examined to the scrutiny of average optical powers , the highest available magnifying about 300 diameters .
Distilled water was the ordinary medium employed ; and in all cases chemical tests were conjointly used for the purposes of detection or confirmation .
After sufficient practice , it became apparent that the microscopic analysis of calculi , thus carried 82 Dr. H. V. Carter on the Composition of Urinary Calculi .
[ Dec. 12 , out , is not only valuable , but that it is even more delicate than the simply chemical method ; by it will be seen more clearly than before that no urinary deposit long retains an unmixed character , and besides will be gained a more accurate conception of the true character and structure of these hurtful concretions .
Particular attention has been given to the nature of their nuclei or first-formed ingredients , for it was obviously desirable to ascertain the material and mode of commencement of calculi ; and the author regards it as not the least interesting of his results to have determined the very frequent presence of urates in a globular form at their very earliest beginnings .
Stones removed from adults as well as from children may possess a nucleus thus formed , and to such origin may succeed all varieties of calculous deposit .
The next most common ingredient of the nucleus is the oxalate of lime , and this , too , in a form not generally recognized , viz. as large rhombic crystals ; frequently , however , octahedral , oval , and dumb-bell forms are seen , as well as spheroidal bodies originating from the latter ; these last-named structures are very characteristic .
The nucleus of a calculus was comparatively seldom found to consist of uric-acid crystals .
Next in importance to the observation that globular and granular urates very frequently compose the nucleus of all varieties of calculi , and have commonly associated with them the oxalate of lime , is the evidence elicited of the operation of known physical influences in determining the form which these salts assume in connexion with stone .
Eeference is made to the modifying influence of a colloid medium upon the process of crystallization ( as so admirably illustrated in Mr. Rainey 's well-known researches ) ; and it is here found that both urates and oxalates may present the various stages of globular particles , complex globules , or spheroids , either separate or blended , and laminse of varying thickness : there are evident signs , too , that these structures undergo , at times , more or less disintegration , which may be followed by a rearrangement of their molecules ; and more especially does the calcic oxalate seem disposed to undergo these changes , the resulting forms being highly characteristic .
Neither uric acid nor the phosphates were found otherwise than in a simpler crystalline form ; the former , however , when liquor potassse is added , may in combination be noticed to pass into minute globular particles , the urate of potash being seen in the field of the microscope to assume some of the characters of ordinary urates ; and phosphate of lime artificially produced was also observed in the shape of dumb-bells and spheres .
The author refers to the structure of Raphides , agates , some shells , \amp ; c. , and concludes that urinary calculi should not be classed with ordinary concretions or mere mineral masses ; it is not , however , evident that the animal basis of calculous matter , essential ingredient though it be , presents or retains a strictly cellular character .
Some details respecting the source and other characters of the calculi 1872 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer on Spectrum-Analysis .
83 submitted to examination are added , with a Table specifying the sex , age , \amp ; c. of patients , weight and composition of the specimens , \amp ; c. A second Table shows an arrangement of the ascertained ingredients in a form which , if not complete , may yet be useful ; in it the rarer substances belonging to urinary calculi are not included .
Next follows a description of each well-known ingredient as it was observed to occur:\#151 ; Uric acid is here crystalline , but not in the shapes prevalent in urinary deposits ; free crystals ( 1 ) are comparatively rare , and open columns ( 2 ) , or else compact laminae ( 3 ) , are most frequent ; amidst these the very general occurrence of simple oxalate-of-lime forms is mentioned .
The Urates are present in calculi , as ( 1 ) granules , ( 2 ) acicular crystals , ( 3 ) globules , ( 4 ) laminae : the relation of the two latter forms is described , and the apparent character of their animal basis .
Oxalate of lime would seem to be the most prevalent of all ingredients , and it exists as ( 1 ) granules , if the particles were really shapeless , as they appeared to be ; ( 2 ) crystals\#151 ; octahedral ( often of enormous size ) , ovoid , and dumbbell shaped ; ( 3 ) spheroids , or large composite globular particles of very characteristic appearance , and originating from the last-named form ; ( 4 ) laminae , also characteristic .
Some remarks are added on crystals of the oxalate artificially produced .
Certain crystals , styled peculiar , are described ; they are frequently admixed with the urates , and , upon grounds specified in detail , are judged to be a form of the calcic oxalate .
Phosphate of lime : free crystals of this salt have not been seen in calculi ; and compact layers , authoritatively recognized , have varied in appearance either as the result of disintegration , or possibly in consequence of some difference in chemical composition\#151 ; a point amongst others needing further investigation .
Respecting the triple phosphate and the fusible calculus , details of their microscopic appearance are submitted in the communication under notice .
In conclusion , figures arranged in four Plates , with descriptions , are appended .
III .
" Researches in Spectrum-Analysis in connexion with the Spectrum of the Sun."\#151 ; No. I. By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received November 6 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The author , after referring to the researches in which he has been engaged since January 1869 in conjunction with Dr. Irankland , refers to the evidence obtained by them as to the thickening and thinning of spectral lines by variations of pressure , and to the disappearance of certain lines when the method employed by them since 1869 is used .
This method consists of throwing an image of the light-source to be examined on to the slit of the spectroscope .

