III .
Letter from JAMES P. JOULE , Esq. F.R.S. to Prof. STOKES , in reference to the Paper of Dr. WOODS read on the 10th of January 1856 .
Received February 22 , 1856 .
Manchester , February 21st , 1856 .
In the abstract of Dr. Woods ' paper printed in the ' Proceedings ' for January 10th , the following remark occurs : " Mr. Joule published in the Philosophical Magazine for June 1852 , a memoir proving exactly the same proposition , but giving me the merit of priority in a preliminary remark .
" In justice to myself I must state that my actual words were- " I observe with pleasure that Dr. Woods has recently arrived at one of the results of the paper , viz. ' that the decomposition of a compound body occasions as much cold as the combination of its elements originally produced heat , ' by the use of an elegant experimental process described in this Magazine for October 1851 .
I ought , however , to remark , that previous to the year 1843 I had demonstrated 'that the heat rendered latent in the electrolysis of water is at the expense of the heat which would otherwise have been evolved in a free state by the circuit .
' " The memoir referred to by Dr. Woods was acknowledged by the French Academy in its 'Comptes Rendus ' for Feb. 9 , 1846 , and according to established rule dates from that period .
I may however observe that the law he claims was published by me in the Philosophical Magazine for October 1841 , where I pointed out that the heat evolved by the combination of oxygen and hydrogen is equal to that due to the electrical intensity required to separate water into its elements .
The same fact was reiterated in various subsequent papers , in which it is also proved that " the quantities of heat which are evolved by the combustion of the chemical equivalents of bodies are proportional to the intensities of their affinities for oxygen " ( Phil. Mag. xx .
p. 111 ) , a proposition which is given as his own by Dr. Woods , and considered by him as " an original idea .
" JAMES P. JOULE .

