" On the Geometrical Forms of Turbinated and Discoid Shells .
" By the Rev. H. Moseley , Professor of Natural Philosophy and As ?
tronomy in King 's College , London .
Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , F.R.S. This paper is occupied by an investigation of certain mathemati ?
cal principles which the author considers as governing the formation of turbinated and discoid shells .
According to these views , all such shells may be conceived to be generated by the revolution about a fixed axis of the perimeter of a geometrical figure , which , remaining always similar to itself , increases continually its dimensions .
The spiral lines which are observable on the opercula of certain classes of shells , taken in connexion with the well-known properties of the logarithmic or equiangular spiral , appear to have suggested the idea , that not only the boundary of the operculum , which measures the sectional expansion of a shell , but also the spiral lines , which in general are well marked both externally and internally in the shell itself , are curves of this nature .
From an examination of the spirals marked on opercula , it appears that the increase of their substance takes place on one margin only ; the other margin still retaining the spiral form , and acquiring an in ?
crease of length by successive additions in the direction of the curve .
As in the logarithmic spiral the distances of successive spires , mea ?
sured on the same radius vector produced from the pole , from each other , are respectively in geometrical progression , if similar distances between the successive whorls on the opercula of shells be found to observe the same law , it will follow that these whorls must have a similar form ; and that such is the case , the author shows by a variety of numerical results obtained by careful measurements on three different opercula of shells of the order Turbo .
That such is the law of nature in the formation of this class of shells is rendered probable by the instances adduced by the author , in which a conformity to this law is found to exist .
From the known properties of the logarithmic spiral the author concludes that the law of the geometrical description of turbinated shells is , that they are generated by the revolution about a fixed axis , ( namely , the axis of the shell , ) of a curve , which continually varies its dimensions according to the law , that each linear increment shall vary as the existing dimensions of the line of which it is the increment .
If such be the law of nature , the whorls of the shell , as well as the spires on the operculum , must have the form of the logarithmic spiral ; and that this is likewise the case is shown by the almost perfect accordance of numerical results , deduced from the property of that curve , with those deduced from a great variety of careful measurements made of the distances between successive whorls on radii vectores drawn on shells of the Turbo duplicatus , Turbo phasianus , Buccinum subulatum , and in a fine section of a Nautilus pompilius .
The author further states that , besides the results given in the paper , a great number of measurements were similarly made upon other shells of the genera Trochus , Strombus , and Murex , all confirmatory of the law in question .
One of the interesting deductions which the author has derived from the prevalence of this law in the generation of the shells of a large class of mollusca , is that a distinction may be expected to arise with regard to the growth of land and of aquatic shells , the latter serving both as a habitation and as a float to the animal which forms it ; and that , although the facility of varying its position at every period of its growth may remain the same , it is necessary that the enlargement of the capacity of the float should bear a constant ratio to the corresponding increment of its body ; a ratio which always assigns a greater amount to the increment of the capacity of the shell than to the corresponding increment of the bulk of the animal .
Another conclusion deducible from the law of formation here considered is , that the growth of the animal , corresponding to a given increment in the angle of the generating curve , will always be proportional to the bulk it has then attained : and if the physical vital energies of the animal be proportional to its actual bulk , its growth , in any given time , will be proportional to its growth upto that time .
Hence the whole angle of revolution of the curve generating the shell will be proportional to the whole corresponding time of the animal 's growth ; and therefore , the whole number of whorls and parts of whorls will , at any period , be proportional to its age .
The form of the molluscous animal remaining always similar to itself , the surface of the organ by which it deposits its shell will vary as the square of the linear dimensions ; but as the deposition of its shell must vary as the cube of the same dimensions , there must be an increased functional activity of the organ , varying as the sim ?
ple linear dimensions .
Since to each species of shell there must correspond a particular number expressing the ratio of the geometrical progression of the similar successive linear dimensions of the whorls ; and since the constant angle of the particular logarithmic spiral , which is affected by that species of shell , is deducible from this number , the author considers that , connected as the form of the shell is with the circumstances of the animal 's growth and the manner of its existence , this number , or the angle of the particular spiral , determinable as it is in each case by actual measurement , may be available for the purposes of classification , and may suggest relations by which , eventually , they may become linked with characteristic forms , and modes of molluscous existence .
The concluding portion of the paper contains a mathematical dis ?
cussion of certain geometrical and mechanical elements of a conchoidal surface .
These are , the extent of the surface itself ; the vo ?
lume contained by it ; the centre of gravity of the surface , and also of the volume , in each case , when the generating figure revolves about a fixed axis without any other motion , and also when it has , besides this , a motion of translation in the direction of that axis ; and , lastly , the angle of the spiral .
The author states that his object in this inquiry is the application of these elements to a discussion of the hydraulic theory of shells .
The constant angle of the spiral , which each particular species affects , being connected by a necessary relation with the economy of the material of the habitation of each , with its stability , and the condition of its buoyancy , it is therefore necessary to determine the value of this angle .

