4 .
" On the existence of alternating diurnal Currents of Electricity at the Terrestrial Surface , &amp;c. , and their connection with the Diurnal Variation of the Horizontal Miagnetic Needle .
" By W. H. Barlow , Esq. , M.I.C.E. Communicated by Peter Barlow , Esq. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The observations recorded in this paper were undertaken in consequence of certain spontaneous deflections having been noticed in the needles of the Electric Telegraph on the Midland Railway .
The telegraph is constructed on the principle patented by Messrs. Wheatstonee and Cooke , and the signals are made by deflecting a magnetic needle placed in a coil , to the right or left , by means of a galvanic battery .
It was observed that when no signals were passing , and when the wires of the telegraph had simply connexion with the earth at the two termini , spontaneous deflections , differing in amount and direction , occasionally occurred .
It was also observed in the four principal lines of telegraph which unite at Derby as a centre , two of which proceed in a northerly direction to Leeds and to Lincoln , and two in a southerly direction to Birmingham and to Rugby , that the relative deflections of the four instruments were such as to indicate that when the current of electricity , which produced the deflection , flowed from Rugby northwards towards Derby , it was also flowing northwards in all the other three ; and likewise , that when it flowed southwards in one , it flowed southwards in all ; the times of the deflections being simultaneous or nearly so .
There appeared to be no regularity as to the hours , either during the day or night , at which these deflections occurred .
Atmospheric electricity also affected the instruments , but in general only by sudden and violent effects during thunder storms , sometimes reversing the poles of the needles contained in the coils , and sometimes fusing the wire of the coil itself .
But the effects first mentioned appeared to arise from a different cause ; and from the great extent of line affected simultaneously by currents in the same direction , it appeared impossible they could arise from local atmospheric influences .
On the night of Friday the 19th of March , there appeared a brilliant aurora , and during the whole time of its remaining visible , rapidly alternating deflections were exhibited in the telegraph instruments .
The occurrence of these phenomena induced the author , with deflectometers of very delicate construction , to make a series of experiments , from which the following results were deduced .
Wires insulated throughout , and wires hliaving only one connexion with the earth , produced no deflection ; and a complete circuit made by uniting both extremities of two wires , each forty-one miles long , but insulated throughout , produced no deflection .
In every case , however , a deflection was obtained on a wire having both ends connected with the earth , which deflection was continually varying in amount.and sometimes in direction .
On making a series of observations every five minutes for twentyfour hours , at both extremities of a wire , from Derby to Birmingham , it was found that the changes , both of amount and direction , occurred simultaneously at the two ends , and that the current flowed from one end communicating with the earth to the other .
The examination of this series of observations showed a general direction of the needle to the right from noon till near midnight , and then to the left until between nine and ten A.M. , when it again changed to the right .
In consequence of this apparent regularity , the experiments were carefully followed up at Derby for a fortnight on the two telegraphic wires proceeding from Derby to IRugby and Birmingham .
These experiments showed that the electric current was subject to a regular ( diurnal alternation , the times of'zero agreeing nearly with the known times of zero of ' the variation of the magnetic needle ; and also that the deflection to the left corresponded with easterly variation , and the deflection to the right with westerly variation ; the path described by the needle of the deflectometer 684being by no means steady and uniform , but subject to alternating changes of greater or less amount .
The effects exhibited on these wires , and which , from the experiments , were found to occur on the north of Derby as well as on the south , would be accounted for by supposing that they were caused by alternating currents of electricity on the earth 's surface in a northerly and southerly direction , proceeding towards the north until 9 A.M. , and towards the south until from 7 to 12 P.M. , and then again turning northwards ; agreeing , therefore , nearly in point of time with the usual times of daily change in the direction of the magnetic needle .
The experiments , as has been stated , were continued during a fortnight , and the deflection noted every five minutes , day and night .
The paper contains the tabular records of these observations ; and also diagrams are given exhibiting the daily path of the needle .
The author concludes his paper by expressing his regret that his avocations do not allow him sufficient leisure to prosecute this inquiry .
but that he will be happy to place in the hands of any person desirous of pursuing the subject all the tables and results which he has collected .

