III .
" On the Fossil Mammals of Australia.--Part III .
Diprotodon australis , Owen .
" By Prof. OWEN , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received December 10 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author communicates descriptions , with figures of the fossil remains at his command , of Diprotodon australis , which have been received from various localities in Australia , since the first announcement of the genus , founded on a fragment of the lower jaw and tusk , described and figured in the 'Appendix ' to Sir Those .
Mitchell 's ' Three Expeditions into the Interior of Eastern Australia , ' 8vo , 1838 .
The fossils in question include the entire cranium and lower jaw with most of the teeth , showing the dental formula of:-i .
3-a , c. o-0 m. 5-5 = 28 ; portions of jaws and teeth exemplifying characteristics of age and sex ; many bones of the trunk and extremities .
After some introductory remarks , the author proceeds to the description of the skull and teeth , which are illustrated by many figures , those of the teeth being of the natural size .
The result of the comparisons detailed establishes the marsupial character of Diprotodon , and the combination of characters of Macropus and Phascolomys with special modifications of its own .
These latter are more fully and strongly manifested in the bones of the trunk and limbs , subsequently described .
The pelvis and femora present resemblances to those in Proboscidea , not hitherto observed in any other remains of large extinct quadrupeds of Australia .
But in all the bones described essentially marsupial characteristics are more or less determinable .
The paper concludes with a summary of the characters of Diprotodon , throwing light upon the conditions of its extinction , its analogies with the Megatheriunm , its affinities to existing forms of Marsupialia , and the more generalized condition which it manifests of that mammalian type .
A table of the localities in Australia from which remains of Diprotodon have been obtained , and a table of the principal admeasurements of the skeleton , are appended to the text .

