268 Voltaic Energy of Electrolytes .
[ Jan. 17 , II .
" Relative Amounts of Voltaic Energy of Electrolytes .
" By Gr .
Gore , F.R.S. Received November 24 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) In this research the author has determined by means of the voltaic balance " the relative amounts of voltaic energy of upwards of 100 aqueous solutions of elementary substances , acids , salts , bases , organic substances , \amp ; c. , exerted by them upon a simple voltaic couple at ordinary atmospheric temperature .
The method of measuring the amount of energy of a substance was as follows : Take two small glass cups containing known volumes of distilled water .
Form two voltaic cells of them by means of strips or stout wires of unamalgamated zinc cut from the same piece , and two small sheets of platinum , also cut from the same piece .
Connect them together in series to a sufficiently sensitive galvanometer ( say , one of from 100 to 1000 ohms resistance ) , so that the currents from the two cells oppose each other , and produce no visible deflection of the needles .
This arrangement constitutes a " voltaic balance , " and is extremely sensitive to change of chemical composition of the liquid in one of the vessels .
Make an aqueous solution of known strength of the substance , and add it in sufficiently small quantities at a time to the water in one of the cups until the needle of the galvanometer visibly commences to move , and note the proportion of the substance and of water then contained in that vessel .
As the amount of energy required to move the needle is the same in all cases , the different numbers thus obtained with different substances represent the relative amounts of voltaic energy of those substances .
And as each substance or mixture of substances gives a different number , it is possible by this method to detect substances , to ascertain the degrees of strength or concentration of liquids , to ascertain whether a substance contains a soluble impurity , \amp ; c. The method also is in many cases an extremely sensitive one .
The names or formulae of the substances , together with their amounts of energy , are arranged in the form of a table as a volta-tension series of electrolytes , commencing with chlorine , which gives a plus number of +1,282,000,000 , and ending with caustic potash , which gives a minus one of \#151 ; 270,985 , and a certain mixture of salts which gives \#151 ; 959,817 .

