]\gt ; Conditions for Discontinuous Motion in .
371 from which and are deducible , values which with those found by Prof. Pearson .
5 .
It does not seem to me that 's catalogue of double stars can be used as a basis for a discussion of the departure of the actual distribution of the stars from a random distribution .
As far as magnitude , Hussy and Aitken have made systematic search for all double stars .
Beyond this tYnitude no systematic search has been made .
Further , the definition of a double star is a very elastic one .
Thus on page 1 of Burnham 's catalogue , Andromedae with a companion of magnitude at a distance of is counted as a double star .
Two faint stars of magnitude or at this distance would not be classified as double , and the raphs taken for the Astrogra } ) contain many such stars .
The in By G. I. TAYLOR , B.A. , Trinity College , ( Communicated by Prof. Sir Joseph Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received July 11 , 1910 .
) The possibility of the propagation of a surface of discontinuity in a was first considered by Stohes*in his paper " " On a Difficulty in the Theory of Sound This paper begins with a physical interpretation of Poisson 's integral of the equation of motion of a in one dimension .
The in question is ; and it represents a disturbance of finite amplitude moving in a gas for which the velocity of propagation of an infinitesimal disturbance is is the velocity of the in the direction of the axis .
It is shown that the parts of the waves in which the velocity of the gas is travel forward with a velocity , and that there is in consequence a tendency for the crests to catch up the troughs .
After a certain time , and at a certain point in space , the value of will become negatively infinite ; a discontinuity will then occur , and Poisson 's will cease to apply .
Stokes then leaves the subject of oscillatory waves and proceeds to consider whether it is possible to maintain a sharp discontinuity in a gas which obeys Boyle 's law .
His meant , slightly modified by Lord Rayleigh , is as follows:\mdash ; Suppose that a travelling discontinuity can exist .
Give the whole gas 'Phil .
Mag 1848 , vol. 33 , p. 349 ; 'Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 .
uniformly at this speed .
Let and be the corresponding densities , and the corresponding pressures .
The equation of continuity of mass is .
( 1 ) !
The equation of conservation of momentum is .
( 2 ) If and be given , these two equations determine and Against this theory , however , Lord Rayleigh* raised the objection that the equation of energy , , cannot , in general , be satisfied simultaneously with ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) .
In a recent note he adds a remark that it is possible that energy might be lost at the discontinuity , but it cannot be supposed that energy is gained .
Lord ayleigh further points out that the energy lost must be converted into heat , and that this complication must be taken into account .
This has been done by C. and by Hugoniot , S but their equations have the same as those of Stokes , in that they contain no indication that the motion represented by them is irreversible .
In the case considered by Stokes it is evident that the motion is in fact , it is only the front of a compression that can possibly travel unchanged .
For , if for an instant the sharp discontinuity were to disappear , leaving a small transition layer in which the elocity might vary continuously from to , then the back part of the layer would travel forward relatively to the front part with a velocity .
Hence if exceeds any such transition layer will become obliterated owing to the greater velocity behind , and the discontinuity will thus be maintained .
This is the case of the front of a wave of condensation .
If , however , the wave is wave of rarefaction , that is , if is less than , then the layer of transition will get wider , and the sharp discontinuity will not be re-established .
The object of this paper is to discuss in detail what actually does occur at a discontinuity , and to determine , in the general case of a gas whose chal'acteristics are known , whether a discontinuity obtained by the method Stokes is a physically possible feature .
'Theory of Sound , ' vol. 2 , p. 41 . .
Soc. Proc , 1908 , vol. 81 , p. 449 .
' Phil. Mag 1893 , vol. 35 , p. 317 .
S See ' Hydrodynamics , ' note on p. 466 , 3rd edition $ 1910 .
] for It is evident that a plane of absolutely sharp or nlathematical discontinuity cannot occur in any real When , owing type , there sudden compression or rarefaction of the material in any boundary , modified physical laws must come into operation whose effect is to prevenlt abrupt discontinuity from being formed .
Some clue to the nature of the processes involved in this case is afforded by the kinetic theory of gases ; for when the in velocity is very sudden , the molecules which are moving faster will penetrate anJong those which are moving more slowly , and an irreversible ledistribution of velocities will ensue .
This ests that heat conduction and viscosity are , in the case of a real gas , the causes of the production of dissipative heat ; it will be shown that under certain conditions they are also sufficient to produce permanence of type in the layer of transition .
Consider a continuous disturbance of permanent type in a cras whose characteristic equations are known .
Give the whole such a velocity that the disturbance is to rest ; the motion is then steady .
Let A and be two planes which move with the gas , let and , be the pressure , density , velocity , and internal of mass of the gas at A and respectively .
Since , the temperature , is a function of and , and is a known function of , and , therefore may be regarded as a function of } ) tjndent variables and The equation of continuity of matter is The rate of gain of momentum between and is The equation of momentum for the gas between A and is therefore where X and X ' are the viscous normal forces which act over the planes and A respectively .
The work done on the between A and in a small interval of time is The increase of its kinetic energy in time is The increase in internal energy in the same time is ( E-E ' ) The amount of heat conducted away from the mass of between A and in time is , where and are the rates which heat , measured in mechanical units , is conducted across the planes and A. The equation of energy for the gas between A and is therefore abscissa .
If and are the points which represent the state of the gas at the two ends of the transition layer in which the velocity changes from to , then the state of the .
that layer are represented by the points on some curved line joining and D. It will be possible by means of equations ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) to determine of X and so that any given lin joining and may represent the state of the in the transition layer ; but the motion so represented will not be thermodynamically possible unless the coefficients of conduction and viscosity are both positive .
If represents distance in the direction in which the gas is , these conditions become X and must have opposite and must have opposite Hence at the front of a condensation X is positive and is negative while for a rarefaction X is ative and is positive .
Construct curves NI and to represent the relations obtaining between and when and when respectively .
Lt , and represent the pressures at points on , and corresponding to a particular value of the density .
The equation to is obtained by dropping X from ( 4 ) , and is and since ( 4 ) yives therefore Similarly it can be shown that 1910 .
for Discontinuous in Gases .
375 In a condensation therefore and , and in a rarefaction and Also where is the specific heat at constant volume ; and must be of the same as ; hence in a condensation , and in a rarefaction Now the equations to the lines and depend only on the relations which exist between pressure , density , temperature , and internal , that is on the characteristic equations of the gas , and not at all on its viscosity or its conductivity ; for if either X or is small the other can be eliminated .
Hence if a discontinuity is specified by the equations two uniform states between which it lies , and it is desired to find out whether it is thermodynamically possible , the lines and joining and , which are the points representing the states of the on the two sides of the discontinuity .
If the line lies above the line ( see diagram ) so that is greater than then a condensation is possible .
If the line lies below the line a rarefaction is possible .
If the line cuts the line at any point between and , neither is possible .
The only special case of any importance is that of a perfect whose characteristic equations are , where is the ratio of the specific heats .
The general criterion is as above ; but if we also assume constant conductivity and viscosity , the circumstances can be followed out in detail .
In this case it ma } be shown that X and Substituting these values in equations ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , and * See Rayleigh 's ' Theory of Sound , ' vol. 2 , p. 315 .
376 Conditions ecessary for tinuous Motion in From these two equations , together with the equations , the quantities and may be eliminated .
The resulting equation is where and It may be written in the form where If either or may be solved in the form , whele and are the roots of If , however , neither nor vanish , ( 6 ) cannot be solved in finite but if be small compared with an approximate solution can be obtained .
If be the greater of the two roots of , the solution is By substituting and their values and remembering that is small compared with , it may be shown that ( ) which is positive .
Hence ( 7 ) represents a condensation ; for when approaches approaches , and when approaches approaohea .
From ( 7 ) it possible to calculate approximately the thickness of the transition layer .
It is evident that the distance between the planes where the velocities are and , is infinite ; but to obtain some idea of the extent of the transition layer consider the thickness of the layer in which On the Radium Content the velocity changes from to these vahles for in ( 7 ) and the values of , and for air , there is obtained and oximately .
In the case of waves of percussion it is known that the differs appreciably from that of sound .
In that case would be considerable and its reciprocal would be small , so the motion would closely approximate to an abrupt discontinuous one .
In the case of ordinary sounds , however , the relative velocities of air in different parts of a wave are small , so that would be compared with a nothing in the nature of a sharp discontinuity would ever be established .
the Radium Content of By the Hon. B. J. STRUTT , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial of Science , South Kensington .
( Received July 16 , 1910 .
) In a fonner paper measurements of the amount of radium in ) sentatiye fneous rocks .
In the reduction of these measurements value of the equilibrium ratio between radium and uranium iven by utherford and Boltwood was used , which has subsequently been corrected by those authors .
My results were reprinted with the necessary amendment by Eve and McIntosh .
Subsequent to the publication of my first paper other experimenters have made similar measurements , with results in most cases substantially the same .
S Prof. J. Joly , however , has arrived at values considerably .
His results are most conveniently referred to in his book " " ndioactivit ) and * O. E. Meyer , ' Kinetic Theory of Gases , ' English edition , p. 292 .
' Boy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 77 , p. 472 .
Phil. Mag August , 190 p. 231 .
S See Eve and McIntosh , .
cit. Far and orance , ' Phil. } ' November , 1909 , p. 812 .
Schlundt and Moore , ' U.S. Geol .
Survey Bull vol. .
Fletcher , ' Phil. Mag July , 1910 , p. 36 .

