XX .
" On the Vine-Disease in the Port-wine Districts of the Alto-Douro , in April 1854 .
With a Supplementary Note on the Proposed Remedies for its Eradication .
" By Jos .
JAMES FORESTER , Esq. , F.R.G.S. Communicated by J. P. GASSIoT , Esq. , F.R.S. Received May 17 , 1854 .
In Portugal , where the vine-disease committed great ravages last year , no measures have as yet been adopted for ascertaining whether the disease is radical , or only superficial ; or whether any practical remedy may be adopted in order to arrest the progress of the evil .
At Oporto , and in the north of Portugal , an opinion prevails " That the Oidium is the effect , and not the cause of the epidemic .
" That the roots and the wood of the vines are diseased .
" That sporules of the Oidium exist in the interior of the vine , and about its roots .
" That the obstruction to the ascent of the sap through the various ducts , originates in the roots .
" ' That black spots appear in the joints of the branches , indicating that disease exists throughout the body of the vine .
" That a new fungus has appeared on the vines , in the shape of small globules , containing carbonic acid .
And " that , although vegetation may continue for a while , the fruit will not ripen , and the vines will die in a couple of years from this date .
" Considering that it would be of some importance to determine whether the disease has its origin in the roots or from external causes , and with a hope that some practical cure for the diseased vines grown in the open air may be discovered , I record the results of my own observations of the progress of the vine-malady in the Alto-Douro .
The Port-wine District extends eight leagues west and east from the Serra do Marao ( an elevation of 4400 feet* from the level of the sea ) to the Quinta do Baleira , near Sam Joao da Pesqueira , and four leagues north and south , between Villa Real and the city of Lamego t. The winter streams , tributaries to the Douro , on the right bank , are the Sermenha , Corgo , Ceira , Pinhao , and Tua ; and , on the left , the Varoza , Temilobos , Tedo , Tavora , and Torto .
At Baleira , the Douro runs at an elevation of not more than 250 feet ; whence some opinion may be formed of the nature and inequality of the country , and of the numerous abrupt mountain ridges , on the inclines of which the vines are grown .
The Wine-Districts of the Alto-Douro form a long irregular basin , girt by the granite chains of the Tras-os-Montes and Beira ; and this being for the most part of schist formation , and protected from the bleak winds , is particularly adapted for the cultivation of the vine .
The strata of the margins of the Douro differ from the higher and middle grounds in character , " being composed of strong clays , more or less micaceous .
" The extreme northern and southern boundaries-from the Serra do Marao to Favaios , and from the Serra do Monte Muro ( near Lamego ) to Sam Joao da Pesqueira-are undulating mountain plains of still heavier soil , and more suitable for the growth of firs than vines .
In former years , this fact was clearly defined by the Royal Wine Company , who divided the districts into two , one being termed Feitoria ( where the most superior wines were produced and classified for exportation ) , the other Ramo , where only very inferior wines , for the consumption of the country and for distillation , were produced to a small extent .
Now , the two districts have become one ; the plantations of pines on the heights and the comproducing valleys having alike been converted into vineyards ; the quantity , and not the quality , of the produce being the results sought by the wine-grower within this privileged demarcation .
One thousand vines generally produce a pipe of wine , and the total number of vines in the Port-wine Districts above described may be estimated at 90,000,000 .
In the summer time , there is great scarcity of water throughout the district .
The vineyards are for the most part situated on abrupt mountain slopes , the vines being planted on terraces , which are not appropriate for the cultivation of anything else .
The vines are grown not higher than three feet from the ground , and are planted about six feet apart , supported with canes or stakes .
The labour in the vineyards is performed by the natives of Gallicia , who visit the district three or four times a year in search of employment .
In July 1850 , I first observed a blight on three or four vines , at a considerable distance from each other , in the Wine Districts .
The general appearance of this blight to the naked eye greatly resembled that which appears on the peach-tree and the rose .
T'he Douro farmers had often previously noticed a similar po ' branco ( white powder ) on the vines .
In 1851 the season was favourable , and the vines ( on which we had observed the blight in the previous year ) were vigorous , and produced perfect fruit .
The vintage of 1851 , throughout the Alto .
Douro , was excellent .
In 1852 there was much wet and cold ; the blight again appeared , and the vines were attacked to the extent of about one in fifteen hundred .
The vintage of 1852 was of inferior quality ; but no one ascribed the failure to any disease in the vine .
From the autumn of 1852 until midsummer 1853 , continued rain , sleet , hail , and bleak winds prevailed , and in 1853 there was no spring .
In March of the same year the navigation of the Douro was impeded , and the bar rendered impassable on account of the floods ; and in April and May of the same year , prayers were offered up in the churches throughout the Wine Districts for fine weather .
In March 1854 , only half-cargoes could be brought down the river Douro , on account of the want of water , and rain was prayed for .
Early in June 1853 , the heat became suddenly intense , and the vines had already burst forth with great vigour ; whilst , in the middle of the same month , the nights became as cold as in winter .
In the most exposed situations the vines received the greatest shock ; the circulation of the sap was evidently deranged , and their fruit withered as soon as it appeared .
In some neighbouring vineyards , less exposed , the grapes grew no larger than peas ; they were then suddenly covered with the blight ( now designated the Oidium ) , and in about three days became rotten .
On the inclines of the mountains on either bank of the river Douro , the waters had run off , and but little blight appeared .
In the low and heavy grounds , the most sheltered from the winds , the waters remained stagnant ; yet the fruit grew to its full size , and had come to maturity , when the new wood , leaves , and fruit were all , to a greater or less degree , covered with the Oidium .
The blight sometimes attacked entire vineyards , and at other times only partially affected one property , and then showed itself in others at a distance-intermediate estates being for the time wholly untouched .
It was in July 1853 that the existence of the disease in the vineyards of the Douro first attracted particular attention ; but many vines betrayed no unhealthy symptoms until the fruit was nearly ripe .
The upper part of the branches was first attacked .
In some instances the woody part of the young branches was speckled with the Oidium , while the bunches of fruit were apparently altogether free from it .
In other instances , the grapes became touched with the disease immediately before the vintage , but the woody part of the branches betrayed no such symptoms .
In some vines , which I supposed had altogether escaped the disease ( and long after the fruit was gathered and the leaves had fallen off ) , blotches or stains , evidently the mycelium of the Oidium , appeared on the wood .
The usual number of seeds in a black grape is two or three ; but in the year 1853 , in all instances the grapes , which at first promised abundance of wine , were found each to contain from three to five seeds .
Twenty-one baskets of grapes usually produce one pipe of wine ; but in the year 1853 , a pipe of wine was rarely obtained even from thirty baskets of grapes .
From seven to nine pipes of ordinary wine generally give a pipe of brandy , 20 per cent. above British proof ; but in the year 1853 , from ten to twelve pipes of ordinary wine were required to give one pipe of brandy of that strength .
Wines , when properly made , should be trodden continuously for 36 hours in the lagar ( an open stone vat ) , and remain there for 36 to 48 hours more , until the tumultuous fermentation be completed , when they should be run off into larger tonels ( wooden vats , not tightly bunged ) , where the second fermentation will be completed about Christmas .
In 1853 , in situations where the disease most prevailed , the grapes fermented before they had been trodden more than twelve hours , when the wines were drawn off and passed into tonels , where brandy , as a precautionary measure , was given to them .
The fermentation of these wines ceased altogether before the 15th October .
In other situations , where the disease had not made progress , the grapes were sound ; and , where they were properly crushed and fermented , they produced excellent wine , without the addition of brandy .
Wines , during their second fermentation , deposit a thick coating of argol on the sides of the tonels .
In 1853 there was very little argol deposited ; but the gross lees of the wine were in great demand , and sold for about 15s .
per basket , --a sum which in former years might almost have purchased double the quantity of grapes .
In the same manner as the form and colour of the wood , leaves , and fruit of vines differ , so does their pith vary in appearance , according to the age of the wood or the quality of the vine .
The pith in an old vine , when the sap is rising , graduates from a deep vandyke-brown colour to a pale yellow , the shade being always darker near the joints .
In April 1854 , I rooted up many vines of different qualities , and in various situations , and I was unable then to detect any remarkable appearance in the interior of the vine different from what I had seen in other years after continued wet and cold weather ; but the exterior of all the last year 's branches bore palpable evidence of having been violently attacked with the Oidium .
Some vines had suffered more than others , and many of their vessels were evidently choked ; but , in most instances , in cutting the vine longitudinally , this obstruction was found to have arisen either from wounds , bad pruning , or natural decay .
I found no black spots at the joints of the branches ; and , with the exception of the stains left by the disease of last year , the vines looked healthy and vigorous , throwing out strong shoots and promising an abundance of fruit .
Towards the end of April 1854 , much rain fell in the district ; the easterly winds destroyed the young branches ; and in the most exposed situations and heavy soils the Oidium again made its appearance .
In 1853 , the disease attacked the vines bodily , and almost simultaneously : whereas , in 1854 , the Oidium appears to be creeping out of the skin of the last year 's wood , and insidiously to extend itself over the branches .
The globules ( to which allusion has been made above ) cover the young shoots .
I have been familiar with these for twenty-three years past , and the Douro farmers call them the " ( perspiration " of the vine .
They do not indicate disease , whereas the smallest possible quantity of thepo ' branco , or white powder , being transferred to a perfectly healthy vine , immediately infected it .
In the Alto-Douro the oranges , lemons , citrons and limes have all been blighted , and every kind of vegetable appears to be suffering from sickness .
The vines which suffered most in the Alto-Douro , in 1853 , were the Muscatel , Malvazia , Alvarilhao , Ferral , Agadanho and Senzao .
Since my arrival in this country I have noticed that the vines grown on walls in the open air , vines grown in greenhouses , vines grown in hot-houses , vines forced , all show identically the same effects of the Oidium of last year , as exist on the vines in the AltoDouro .
Taking into consideration all the circumstances above narrated , I have come to the conclusion , That the Oidium is the cause , and not the effect of the disease ; that the inclemency of the season in 1853 , by checking the circulation of the sap in the vines , produced a predisposition for disease ; that if the Oidium continues to appear on the branches of the vines , it is only too probable that it may in a very few years be destroyed ; that the globules are a sign of health and not of disease , and have no connexion whatever with the fungus called Oidium ; and that if the germ of the Oidium , probably still lurking on the old branches , can be destroyed in the open air as effectually as it appears to have been destroyed under glass , then I feel persuaded that all the vines in the Port-wine districts of the Alto-Douro may be saved .
" Supplementary Note on the proposed Remedies for the Eradication of the Vine-Malady .
" Received June 1 1854 .
1st .
I will take the annual production of wines in the Port-wine districts of the Alto-Douro at 80,000 pipes instead of 90,000 , and the number of vines to be treated as diseased at 80,000,000 .
2nd .
The value of freehold land in that district , for the growth of 1000 vines , or one pipe of wine , may be estimated at 501 .
, yielding an interest or rental of 31 .
per annum .
3rd .
The total freehold value of the vineyards in those districts may be estimated at 4,000,0001 .
sterling , giving an annual revenue of 240,0001 .
4th .
In the event of the disease not being checked in its progress , and the grapes being destroyed this year in the Alto-Douro , a minimum loss of 240,0001 , will be sustained , and should the vines perish , the loss may be 4,000,0001 .
5th .
Portugal is said to produce annually 1,000,000 pipes of wine of all sorts and qualities , but I will estimate the total production at 800,000 pipes , and the total number of vines in the country at 800,000,000 .
If Flour of Sulphur be used , the leaves , branches and shoots are first moistened as equally as possible with a syringe ; then the whole is dusted with sulphur , which adheres to the moistened surface .
This operation would have to be repeated thrice , and would consume two ounces of sulphur for every vine , in each of the operations , making a total of 480,000,000 ounces , or about 13,392 tons for the treatment of the 80,000,000 vines in the Alto-Douro , and 133,920 tons for the vines of the whole country .
Sulphur would not cost less than 101 .
per ton , delivered in the centre of the Alto-Douro districts , or in any other part of the interior of Portugal .
The expense of sulphur required for the Douro would be 133,9201 .
, and for the whole country 1,339,2001 .
One man could moisten one vine in one minute , and another man could dust it with sulphur in the same time , so that two men could perform the complete operation on about 700 vines daily , at a cost of Is .
3d .
each man for labour , making a total of 14,2851 .
in the Alto-Douro , and 142,8501 .
for all Portugal .
I will suppose that there are 4000 vineyards in the Alto-Douro , planted each with 20,000 vines .
The first cost of syringes and fumigators would amount to not less than 101 .
for each vineyard , or a total of 40,0001 .
for the Alto .
Douro .
One quart of water would be reqiired for every vine in each operation , making a total of about 90,000 pipes , the cartage of which , and the labour of distributing it over the mountain vineyards , in tubs , on men 's heads , would cost a minimum of 10s .
per pipe , or a total of 45,0001 .
for the Alto-Douro , and 450,0001 .
for the whole country .
Recapitulation .
In the Douro .
In the whole country .
For sulphur , say ... ... ... ... ... . .
135,000 ?
1,350,000 For labour , at ?
15,000 for each of the three operations 45,000 450,000 three operations ... ... ... ... j For water , at ?
45,000 for each of the three operations , or as much as the 135,000 1,350,000 sulphur ... ... ... ... ... . .
For instruments ... ... ... ... ... ... 40,000 400,000 ?
355,000 ?
3,550,000 This is independent of any charge for factors or superintendents , or for the extra expense in treating vines and vineyards which are so much further apart than are those in the Alto-Douro .
This expense to be incurred in the endeavour to save one year 's crop , would be equal to a charge of 41 .
10s .
per pipe , or to a year and a half 's rental of the vineyards , or to more than the whole revenue of Portugal for an entire year .
If a solution of lime and sulphur be employed instead of flour of sulphur , the operation would not be less expensive .
If , in conjunction with the sulphuring of the branches , the roots were to be exposed , and sulphur and lime thrown upon them , I could not estimate the total expense at less than l4d .
to lId .
per vine , which would entail a charge equal to another year and a half 's rental of the vineyards , or 18 per cent. on their freehold value for the chance of saving one year 's crop .
Again , if the trunks of the vines be bored and the sulphur inserted , this most delicate operation could only be performed by the factors themselves , and if the vines were to be cut down to the ground and grafted with cuttings from sound vines , the entire operation ( which could only be performed by the factors ) would cost I d. to lid .
for each vine , or as much as the sulphuring process ; and tbesides this , there would be a loss of four years ' produce at 31 .
per pipe per annum , making a total loss of 161 .
10s .
in every vineyard growing vines capable of yielding one pipe of wine , or about 33-_per cent. , or one-third of the freehold value of the estate .
Lastly , the dressing of the trunk and branches of 800,000,000 vines with mineral tar could not be carried into operation within any reasonable period , on account of the tediousness of the process and the scarcity of labourers .
The expense of the tar would also be a bar to its being used .

