The Elasmom 1903 .
] Note on the Specific Heat of Aluminium , added May 27 , 1903.\#151 ; A specimen of aluminium from the British Aluminium Company of an approximate purity of at least 99| per cent. , gave in three experiments 02194 , 0'2185 , 0'2194 , mean 02191 , as the specific heat between 20 ' and 100 ' .
" The Elasmometer , a New Interferential Eorm of Elasticity Apparatus .
" By A. E. H. Tutton , E.B.S. Received May 12 , \#151 ; Bead May 14 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) Being desirous of extending the investigation of the physical characters of the crystals of isomorphous salts to the subject of their elasticity , the question arose as to the best form of apparatus to employ for the determination of the coefficient of elasticity .
The most accurate form hitherto devised is that of Koch* .
The amount of flexure of a thin plate of the crystal was determined by the interference method , sodium light being employed .
The great convenience and high accuracy of the optical part of the interference dilatometer which the author has described to the Royal Society !
, suggested the advantage of utilising it as interferometer for the measurement of the amount of the flexure of the plate , and many other possible improvements on the apparatus of Koch also suggested themselves .
Eventually the instrument now described was devised .
It has been constructed by Messrs. Troughton and Simms .
The observing telescope , with its auto-collimator and attached hydrogen Geissler tube , is exactly as used for the dilatometer , and its pedestal is mounted on a detachable plinth in front of the elasmometer .
The rigid iron base on which the latter is mounted also accommodates , on its back portion , the pedestal of the vertical tube which carries the train of prisms to select the monochromatic :C\#151 ; or F\#151 ; hydrogen light employed , and direct it on the interference apparatus .
The interference chamber of the dilatometer is detached from the lower end of this tube , as the elasmometer carries its own interference tripod .
The elasmometer proper consists of the following seven essential parts:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) A pair of platinum-iridium wedges , arranged parallel to each other and with the knife-edges downwards , up against which the plate of the substance ( not necessarily a crystal ) is to be bent by a weight applied under its centre .
They are carried by a pair of gunmetal * ' Ann. der Pliys .
, ' N.F. , 1878 , vol. 5 , p. 251 .
t ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 191 , p. 313 .
194 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Th Ulasmometer , a New [ May 12 blocks , which are adjustable as to their distance apart , and are suitably recessed at their inner ends to accommodate the wedges and the platesupporting and weight-applying apparatus .
They slide on a very rigid larger block of steel , mounted to the front and left of the centre of the iron base , and one of them is provided with fine adjustments for altitude and azimuth , to enable the knife-edges to be set exactly parallel .
( 2 .
) A pair of mechanical " fingers , " for supporting the plate and adjusting it in the proper position under the knife-edges , and for eventually pressing it up into just full contact with the latter .
They are carried by a fitting to the left side of the steel block , and terminate in little spring tables each carrying a small gunmetal knife-edge above its inner side .
They are adjustable for separation , height , and their position in or out of the recess .
( 3 .
) A delicate balance , by Oertling , of special construction , at one end of whose beam the bending weight is applied through an upright agate point , the pressure-point , which is carried instead of a pan at this end .
The balance is mounted to the right of the steel block on a strong base , which is movable by rack and pinion so that the pressure-point can be exactly centred under the plate , and a fine adjustment for azimuth is also provided in the mounting of the balance to aid in this object .
A pan at the right-hand end of the beam receives the bending weight , which may amount to 500 grams .
, and a counterpoise for the weight of the pan is provided near the left end .
( 4 .
) A transmitter , for conveying the bending movement of the centre of the plate to the interference apparatus .
It takes the form of a T-piece , whose long stem is horizontal and is fitted with an agate wedge , by which it rests on an agate plate carried on the front block , .and a counterpoise ; the lower end of the vertical crosspiece rests with less than 1 gram , of pressure on the centre of the plate , while its upper end terminates in a black glass disc , which is adjustable above a metallic one so as to bring its polished surface truly horizontal .
This surface is the lower one of the two which reflect the interfering light .
( 5 .
) An interference tripod for supporting the large colourless glass disc whose under surface forms the upper of the two surfaces concerned in the interference .
One screw is mounted on the back block , and two screws are carried on the front block ; the stem of the transmitter passes between these latter , and the black glass surface is only separated from the colourless disc by a film of air of the necessary thickness to allow for its diminution , consequent on the bending of the plate , without contact of the surfaces .
( 6 .
) A measuring microscope , wherewith to determine the dimensions of the plate and to find its centre .
It is mounted to the left of the steel block , and its two rectangular measuring* movements read to -a thousandth of a millimetre by a novel direct method , involving the 1903 .
] Interferential Form of Elasticity 195 use of a single screw in each case fitted with a special device to eliminate back-lash .
( 7 .
) A control apparatus , to enable the observer to modify at will the rapidity with which the bending force is applied , so as to adequately retard the transit of the interference bands and permit of their easy counting .
It depends on an exceedingly fine vertical screw , which carries under a bracket at its head an agate plate arranged above a platinum-iridium control-point , similar to the pressure-point , carried on a saddle of the beam midway between the latter and the central fulcrum wedge .
The screw is rotated by a diminishing gear , so that a movement of the lever handle manipulated by the observer to the extent of 3 cm .
corresponds to the transit of a single band .
To prevent flickering of the bands when the control is removed and the whole weight allowed to play , due to earth tremors or other disturbances , an aluminium disc is attached below the balance pan by a short rod and immersed in cedar oil , a platinised counterpoise being added to that for the pan already on the other side .
The slight viscosity of this oil scarcely diminishes the sensibility of the balance , while its resistance to the vertical movement of the horizontal disc renders the bands absolutely steady for the determination of their position when the weight is fully operative .
VOL. LXXII .
P

