1880 .
] Note on some Fossil Wood from the Mackenzie River .
147 II " Note on the Microscopic Examination of some Fossil Wood from the Mackenzie River .
" By C._ Schroter , Assistant at the Botanical Laboratory of the Polytechnic Institution , Zurich .
Communicated by Robert H. Scott , F.R.S. Re ceived October 22 , 1880 .
In the summer of 1880 , Professor Oswald Heer transmitted to me seven specimens of fossilized wood from the Miocene beds of the Mackenzie River for microscopical examination , and , if possible , determination of the species , \amp ; c. Professor Heer 's determination of the leaves and other remains of the flora of the locality in question have already appeared in the " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 560 , having been communicated to the Society at the end of the last session .
The following are the species which I have been able to determine :\#151 ; 1 .
Sequoia Canadensis , Schroter n. sp. ( Specimens 1 and 2).* This wood is very well preserved .
( It belongs to the group of Kraus .
) Its anatomy shows , a great resemblance to that of Sequoia gigantea .
The principal differences are the following : ( a. ) In the cells of the medullary rays of S. , the radial pores are always arranged in one horizontal row , whilst S. gigantea has two rows of pores in the extreme ranges of cells .
( y3 .
) The number of superposed ranges of cells in the medullary rays in S. Canadensis is 76 .
In S. gigantea it is only 55 .
The differences between S. Canadensis and 8 .
are greater than those between the former and S\#166 ; , so that S..Canadensis cannot belong to S. Lang sdorJJH , which occurs at the same locality , and which is the Tertiary ancestor of S. sempervirens .
It is , therefore , probable that the wood which I have examined belongs to one of the other Tertiary species of Sequoia ( perhaps S. Sternbergii , which approaches very closely S. gig anted ) .
Until this identity is established I designate it provisionally as S. Canadensis .
2 .
Ginkgo spec .
( Specimens 4 to 7 .
) Although not so well preserved as the preceding instances of wood , these specimens are easily recognisable as belonging to the genus Ginkgo by their very characteristic medullary rays .
Perhaps they should be placed under the species G. adiantoides , Ung .
, which is the commonest of Tertiary Ginkgos , and has been found in Saghalien and in Greenland , between which two localities the Mackenzie River lies .
3 .
Platanus aceroides , Gp .
( Specimen No. 2 .
) A dicotyledonous * All the specimens referred to in this paper are to be deposited in the British Museum .
148 Dr. Hopkinson .
Electrostatic Capacity of Glass .
[ Dec. 9 , wood , which in the arrangement of its vessels and medullary rays resembles so closely the genus Platanus that it most probably i8 P. aceroides , which occurs at Mackenzie River in the leaf beds .
More complete details of my investigation will be found in my paper on the " Fossil Woods of the Arctic Regions , " in the forthcoming volume ( VI ) of the " Flora Fossilis Arctica , " by Professor Heer .
III .
" The Electrostatic Capacity of Glass .
" By J. Hopkinson , M.A. , D.Se .
, F.R.S. Received November 3 , 1880 .
( Abstract , ) In 1877 I had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society* the results of some determinations of specific inductive capacity of glasses , the results being obtained with comparatively low electromotive forces , and with periods of charge and discharge of sensible duration .
In 1878 Mr. Gordonf presented to the Royal Society results of experiments , some of them upon precisely similar glasses , by a quite different method with much greater electromotive forces , and with very short times of charge and discharge .
Mr. Gordon 's results and mine differ to an extent which mere errors of observation cannot account for .
Thus , for double extra dense flint glass I gave 10*1 , Mr. Gordon 3*1 , and subsequently 3*894 These results indicate one of three things , either my method is radically bad , Mr. Gordon 's method is bad , or there are some physical facts not yet investigated which would account for the difference .
Two possible explanations have been suggested : 1st , possibly for glass K is not a constant , but is \amp ; function of the electromotive force .
2nd .
When a glass condenser is discharged for any finite time , a part of the residual discharge will be included with the instantaneous discharge , and the greater the time the greater the error so caused .
To test the first I measured the capacity of thick glass plates with differences of potential ranging from 10 to 500 volts , and also of thin glass flasks between similar limits ; the result is that I cannot say that the capacity is either greater or less where the electromotive force is 5,000 volts per millimetre than where it is volt per millimetre .
The easiest way to test the second hypothesis is to ascertain how nearly a glass flask can be discharged in an exceedingly short time .
A flask of light flint glass was tested ; it was charged for some seconds , discharged for a time not greater than T7^00 second , and the residual charge observed so soon as the * " Phil. Trans. , " 1878 , p. 17 .
f " Phil. Trans. , " 1879 , p. 417 .
+ " Report of British Association , " 1879 .

