OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
TOL .
LXXXI1I.\#151 ; A. CONTENTS .
# Page EleuthJire !
Elie Nicolas Mascart ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
i William Edward Wilsqn ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
jii Francis Elgar ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... viii Georg von Neumayer ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xi Lord Boss ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xv Antoine Henri Becquerel ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xx S ELEUTHi : RE ELIE NICOLAS MASCART , 1837\#151 ; 1908 .
Eleuthere Mascart was born on February 20 , 1837 , at Quarouble ( Nord ) .
His early years were spent there , in modest circumstances , but were full of activity and boyish enterprise.* Later he went to Paris and studied at the Ecole Normale Superieure , entering in 1858 .
While yet but little more than a student he wrote a paper on determination of wave-length of light , the first of an extensive series of papers on optical subjects which he was enabled to continue publishing for many years to come .
He took his doctorate in 1864 and afterwards remained attached to the ficole Normale Superieure as curator of the science collections .
While holding this post he devoted himself with enthusiasm to experimental research ; and the next few years were occupied with a variety of questions on light\#151 ; wave-lengths , dispersion , ultra-violet light , the direction of the vibrations of polarised light , interference , diffraction .
More especially he conducted refined investigations on the Doppler effect in light , and on the influence of the earth 's motion on optical phenomena belonging to bodies moving with it , which long afterwards served as a principal foundation for modern theoretical developments relating to astronomical aberration and the relations of moving bodies to the aether .
On Regnault 's vacating the chair of Physics at the College de France in 1872 , Mascart , young though he was , had already attained for himself a position in science which made it felt that he wTould prove a worthy successor to that great experimentalist .
That hope was amply fulfilled during a long tenure of this important chair .
Six years later he was appointed Director of the Bureau Centrale Meteorologique , and he was enabled from this position to render important services to meteorology , especially on the physical side .
He became a Foreign Member of the Royal Society in 1892 .
He was a frequent visitor to this country both in relation to official congresses and in private visits to his many scientific friends : his quiet and sage scientific advice always carried great influence .
Mascart 's experimental work embraced many and diverse subjects , but his main researches were connected with light and electricity .
The series of electrical papers which he published from the time of his appointment to his professorship form quite an epitome of the many questions then ripening for solution , such as those connected with the theory of the dynamo-electric machine , and other applications of electricity at that time gradually coming to be of industrial importance .
It was not , however , given to Mascart to disclose epoch-making discoveries such as change the trend of scientific progress .
His work was mainly of the * The writer desires to express his acknowledgments to Madame Mascart for kindly sending personal details .
ii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
kind which elucidates , and welds into harmony with existing knowledge , the pioneer advances of the first discoverers .
His influence and guidance also were of inestimable benefit in shaping the direction adopted in the evolution of practical electrical education and measurements , from their early beginnings onwards for many years ; and in this connection he took an active interest in the development of the Nicole Superieure d'Electricite and in the Laboratoire Central d'Electricite .
Among the many other directions in which Mascart helped in the development of practical electricity may be mentioned his advice and work for the various congresses convened for discussion of an international system of electrical measurements ; and he may be considered as instrumental in no small degree in bringing about the adoption of our present electrical units .
He himself carried out for these purposes a determination of the ohm , as well as a determination of the electro-chemical equivalent of silver .
His connection with the Meteorological Department brought his scientific acumen into immediate contact with many meteorological problems ; from time to time he published papers on the investigations which he carried out in connection with these , such as on the registration of atmospheric electricity and of terrestrial magnetism .
But his chief interest ever remained in questions connected with light , which indeed had been his first attraction .
He made many determinations of important optical data , of which his measurements of the refractivity and dispersion of light in gases and vapours are perhaps the best known .
His work on the effect of pressure on the refractivity of water may also be recalled , Mascart exerted for many years a healthy influence on the scientific activities of his own country , and indeed abroad also , through his well-known books on physical subjects .
One of the earliest was ' A Treatise on Electrostatics , ' a standard book in its day .
His ' Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism ' ( 1892 ) , in two volumes , written in collaboration with Joubert , is perhaps the most widely known .
It contributed powerfully ( see the Preface ) to bring into the range of ordinary exposition , especially on the Continent , the methods of Kelvin and Maxwell , in development of the ideas of Faraday , which have since then transformed the science even more completely .
This treatise , in an English translation , has been extensively employed in this country as a basis for much electrical teaching .
His ' Treatise on Optics ' ( 1889\#151 ; 93 ) , in three large handsome volumes , is encyclopsedic in range .
It is characterised throughout by the blending of mathematical and experimental interests , which is the highest form of physical exposition .
Besides being a faithful account of the existing state of knowledge , in many respects the presentation has been simplified and improved by the author : thus its publication formed the stimulus for renewed research , for example , on phenomena of diffraction and the so-called achromatic fringes , on the part even of the highest authorities .
E. T. T. Ill WILLIAM EDWARD WILSON , 1851\#151 ; 1908 .
William Edward Wilson was the only son of John Wilson , whose name will be known and whose memory will be respected by those who have read a little volume entitled ' Thoughts on Science , Theology , and Ethics .
' It is evident from the contents of this book that John Wilson was no ordinary man .
The book appeared in 1885 , when its author was well advanced in years .
It reveals a thoughtful and original mind , and gifts of exposition which come as a surprise from a retired country gentleman .
Possibly because the book is too outspoken , possibly because its author was above making efforts to attract attention to it , the philosophical little work remains almost unknown .
William Edward was born in 1851 , his mother being Frances Patience , daughter of the Rev. Edward Nangle .
A delicate constitution as a boy debarred him from the advantages of school and college life , and his education was entrusted to private tuition .
The loss of the incentives which arise from the competition of school and university life was , probably , to a large extent made good by the influence of a parent who sought to implant in his son that same lofty ideal of excellency which everywhere appears in the pages of ' Thoughts on Science ' : " The greatest of all the virtues\#151 ; truthfulness .
" What better teaching for the growing intelligence of the boy ?
Here was not only the basis of science but science itself .
We cannot doubt that the mind of John Wilson , fearless in its search for truth , greatly influenced the mental development of the future investigator .
The encouragement given by John Wilson to his son 's scientific bent is apparent in the fact that an astronomical observatory was built at Daramona , co .
Westmeath ( the residence of the Wilsons ) , in the year 1871 .
William Edward had already felt the spell which the greatest and most imaginative of the sciences casts upon every thoughtful mind , but which has in most cases to be resisted because of the limitations imposed by worldly means .
Here this limitation , fortunately , did not exist , and young Wilson found himself , when but twenty years of age , equipped with a 12-inch equatorial by Grubb , a private observatory , and leisure to pursue his studies .
Ten years later a larger observatory with considerably increased resources was built .
A 24-inch silver-on-glass mirror of 101 feet focal length was installed ; and with these advantages to meet the drawbacks of climate , young Wilson 's career as a working scientific man began .
In 1882 he was observing the transit of Venus , and looking for traces of absorption of the solar spectrum in the atmosphere of the planet ( 'Proc .
Roy .
Dub .
So .
, ' December , 1882 ) .
Those who have seen the volume which Wilson issued in 1900 , entitled iv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
' Astronomical and Physical Researches made at Mr. Wilson 's Observatory , Daramona , Westmeath , ' will not think it any exaggeration to state that the photographic work effected by the 24-inch reflector has scarcely been excelled by any work of the kind done in this country .
Wilson was a gifted manipulator and possessed of the enthusiasm which carries the worker ever nearer to perfection : permitting no relaxation till the best is attained .
His photographs of the Nebula in Orion , the cluster of stars in Hercules , the annular nebula in Lyra , the spiral nebula in Canes Yenatici , can hardly be surpassed , and will be long remembered by those who saw these photographs at a time when as yet but little work of the kind had been accomplished .
In 1889 he built a physical laboratory in connection with the observatory , and in this he pursued the researches on solar heat by which his name is best known .
Solar physics had all along attracted Wilson .
In 1886 he describes to the British Association a new sunshine recorder .
In 1890 he communicates to the same Association an account of experiments showing in a very striking manner inequalities of radiation of the sun 's disc .
But even before this , in 1884 , he conceived the idea that a continuous comparative record of the radiation from centre and limb of the solar disc , if taken over an entire sun-spot cycle , might reveal a change in the depth of the solar atmosphere , supposing such a change took place .
This research he followed for some years , improving his apparatus as better instruments became available ; and in 1892 a full account of the method appeared from him and Prof. Rambaut , in ' Proc. Roy .
Irish Acad. ' ( 3rd Ser. , vol. 2 , p. 299 ) .
The problem of the nature of sun-spots also took up much of his thoughts .
He was led by temperature measurements to conclude that the sun-spot is not\#151 ; as generally believed\#151 ; a cool region and one of depression , but rather a more intensely heated one , raised above the photosphere .
He gives reasons for believing that the diminished brightness is due to the more completely gaseous nature of the materials which replace the incandescent photosphere , and which by their turmoil reflect back the light from beneath .
The papers containing and defending this interesting view are contained in ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. ' ( vol. 65 , p. 246 ) , and in the ' Monthly Notices Roy .
Astron. Soc. ' ( vol. 55 , p. 457 ; and vol. 65 , p. 224 ) .
Some part of these ideas originated in the course of experiments which he carried out at Daramona along with his friend , the late G. F. FitzGerald , on the effects of pressure on the electric arc ( ' Proc. Roy .
Soc./ 1895 , vol. 58 , p. 174 ; and vol. 60 , p. 377 ) .
The investigations on solar physics culminated in 1894 , when an account of his " Experimental Investigations on the Effective Temperature of the Sun " appeared in the 'Phil .
Trans. Roy .
Soc. ' ( vol. 185 , A , p. 361 ) .
This investigation was carried out jointly with Mr. P. L. Gray .
In a sense it is Wilson 's most important contribution to science .
The paper reveals not only ingenuity but much careful and conscientious work .
It is improbable , unless some quite new method presents itself , that the constant which it is sought to determine will in the future be more accurately evaluated .
We William Edward Wilson .
v here refer not only to the original communication , but also to the second paper on the subject which Wilson contributed to ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. ' ( vol. 69 , p. 312 ) .
In the first paper the standard of comparison with the solar radiation is a strip of incandescent platinum .
The second research improves on this by substituting a " perfect " radiator in the form of a hollow vessel , raised to a high temperature , which radiates through its aperture .
The artificial source of radiation warms one junction of a Boys radiomicrometer , and heat from the solar disc warms an opposed junction ; the arrangement being such that a differential form is given to the instrument .
Discussions on the law connecting radiation with temperature ; on the emissivity of platinum ; and on the correction for terrestrial atmospheric absorption , are included in the first paper .
A temperature of 5768 ' C. , on the lowest estimate of terrestrial atmospheric absorption , is arrived at in the second investigation .
A further correction for solar atmospheric absorption , made on the basis of Wilson 's and Rambaut 's paper , already referred to , is applied to this ; and the value finally reached for the solar temperature is 6590 ' C. Connected with the solar work , in 1905 a paper appears in the ' Trans. Roy .
Dub .
Soc. ' ( vol. 8 , p. 183 ) , " On the Temperature of Certain Stars .
" In this most interesting memoir Wilson advances the view that the brightness of certain stars\#151 ; e.g. , Sirius\#151 ; is not a result of higher temperature but rather of a deeper photosphere and the absence of absorptive gases above it .
The argument is very convincingly laid before us , and leaves us assured of the existence of grave doubts attending the temperature classification of stars based on relative brightness .
The subject is pursued and expanded in " The Evolution of the Spectrum of a Star during its Growth from a Nebula " ( ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 76 , A , p. 374 ) .
The fertility of resource and the originality which characterise much of Wilson 's work are well displayed in his interpretation of the remarkable phenomena attending the sudden appearance in 1902 of the star Nova Persei .
The apparent rapid expansion of the star into a nebula was explained by Wilson as possibly due , not to the outward movement of matter from the Nova , but to the spreading of its intense and sudden radiation : the outflowing light shining upon nebulous matter already situ .
Any other explanation of the facts observed involves translatory movements of matter of a quite incredible order of magnitude .
Assuming , then , that an outward flux of light is responsible , we have a known velocity to deal with ; and the actual radial dimensions attained by the illuminated region during the period of observation is known .
The angular measurements then afford a means of calculating the distance of the phenomena from the earth .
The result is a distance of 248 light years ( ' Proc. Roy .
Dub .
Soc. , ' January , 1902 , vol. 4 , p. 556 ) .
This bold and original idea was , indeed , first reached by Prof. Kapteyn , but of this Wilson was quite unaware .
Nor is this the only instance in which Wilson was among the first to grasp the significance of a new discovery .
In 'Nature ' of July 9 , 1903 , he drew vi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
attention to the probability that radium plays a part in sustaining solar heat .
Wilson gives a calculation which , when interpreted in the light of more recent knowledge , shows , indeed , that only a fractional part of the entire heat can be ascribed to this source ; unless we are prepared to believe that as much uranium exists in the sun as in the mineral pitchblende ( about 60 per cent. ) .
Eutherford had previously pointed out this possibility in connection with the difficulty of accounting for the sustentation of solar heat over the duration of geological time ; but Wilson was in ignorance of Butherford 's suggestion .
In 1900 Wilson accompanied the party of observers who were sent out by the Eoyal Dublin Society and by the Eoyal Irish Academy to observe the total solar eclipse of that year .
The place of observation selected was Plasencia , in Spain .
Here the party were fortunate in obtaining a good view of the eclipse and some good photographs .
Wilson 's own work was directed to photographic measurements of the extension of the corona .
The results obtained appear in ' Trans. Eoy .
Dub .
Soc. ' and ' Trans. Eoy .
Irish Acad/ of that year .
Wilson had been on a similar expedition to Algeria .
The science of radio-activity\#151 ; a new-born branch of science in the closing years of Wilson 's life\#151 ; excited in him the keenest interest ; and it is probable that had he lived his enthusiasm would have led him to work in this field .
His ingenious method of investigating the effects of pressure on radioactive substances might well be pursued further .
The active element is embedded in a little Canada balsam to render it waterproof .
With this a small screen carrying barium platino-cyanide is incorporated ; and the whole is exposed to hydraulic pressure while the luminosity is being observed -through a thick quartz window .
Wilson records that a suddenly applied pressure of 300 atmospheres failed to produce the slightest change ( f Proc. Eoy .
Dub .
Soc. , ' vol. 10 , p. 193 ) .
Shortly before his death he was again back at his work on solar physics , an ingenious integrating sunshine recorder , depending on the distillation in vacuo of a volatile liquid , occupying much of his attention .
Although Wilson 's life was not a long one , it was both successful and tranquil .
He married , in 1886 , Caroline Ada , third daughter of Captain E. C. Granville , of Grand Pr4 , Biarritz .
He leaves a son and two daughters .
His father 's decease preceded his own by only two years , and was a heavy blow to him .
William Edward Wilson 's personal claims on the esteem and affection of his friends require no words to emphasise or extol .
But they should not remain unrecorded here .
His was a most loveable character : earnest , sincere , and unassuming .
The charm of his manner was apparent even on the shortest acquaintance .
It revealed at once sympathy , thoughtfulness , and gentleness .
Older acquaintances learned that he was fertile in ideas , while always ready to listen with interest to those of others ; a combination rather unusual .
His grave , handsome face revealed the naive and beautiful character which won for him so many friends .
Those who have known the quiet charm of disWilliam Edward Wilson .
Vll cussing with Wilson the great topics he loved to dwell on , and who at each parting with him felt a deepened respect and regard , will enter into the feelings of sadness evoked by his too early death .
During his life , Daramona\#151 ; his beautiful place in Street , co .
Westmeath \#151 ; was a centre of intellect and culture .
With true Irish hospitality he delighted in entertaining his friends , and he was able to offer a degree of intellectual enjoyment , unfortunately too often absent from country life .
Wilson was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1896 ; and in 1901 he received the degree of Doctor of Science , honoris from the University of Dublin .
He held the office of High Sheriff for co .
Westmeath in 1894 .
By his will he bequeathed his large reflecting telescope to the Radcliffe Observatory , Oxford , and his physical apparatus to Trinity College , Dublin .
Among publications not referred to above are the following:\#151 ; " A New Photographic Photometer for Determining Stellar Magnitudes , " ' Monthly Notices of the E.A.S. , ' vol. 52 , p. 153 .
" On the Temperature of the Carbons of the Electric Arc ; with a Note on the Temperature of the Sun , " ' Proc. Roy .
Dub .
Soc. , ' vol. 58 , p. 24 .
" Peculiarities in Barograph Curves characteristic of Approaching Storms , " ' Proc. Roy .
Irish Acad. , ' vol. 25 , p. 1 .
" The Apparent Cometary Nature of the Spiral Nebula in Canes Venatici , " 'Proc .
Roy .
Dub .
Soc. , ' vol. 8 , p. 696 .
" On the Position of Encke 's Comet , " 'Proc .
Roy .
Irish Acad. , ' vol. 3 , p. 570 .
J. J. Vlll Obituary Notices of deceased .
FRANCIS ELGAR , 1845\#151 ; 1909 .
Francis Elgar , who died suddenly at Monte Carlo on January 16 , 1909 , was born at Portsmouth in 1845 , and came of a family which had long been connected with the Royal Dockyard at that port .
He was apprenticed to the master shipwright when about fourteen years of age , and served in the shipbuilding department for six years , his educational and practical training being advanced simultaneously under the excellent system of schools which the Admiralty established nearly seventy years ago and still maintain in all the home dockyards .
In the autumn of 1864 , the Royal School of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering was opened at South Kensington , in accordance with a scheme framed jointly by the Admiralty and the Science and Art Department .
The fundamental idea of this School was to afford to students an opportunity of acquiring a thorough knowledge of the science of shipbuilding and ship propulsion , and it was required that , previous to admission , students should obtain a good general education as well as a training in practical work by attendance in shipyards and engine factories .
The Admiralty sent sixteen students to the School in the first year : eight to be trained as naval architects and eight as marine engineers .
These young men were selected from a large number of apprentices in all the dockyards by means of a severe competitive examination .
They had been thoroughly prepared in the dockyard schools ; and , as a consequence , were better fitted than private or foreign students to undertake the courses of instruction given at South Kensington .
Amongst these young men Elgar took a high place , and ultimately secured ( in 1867 ) his Diploma as Fellow of the first class\#151 ; the highest possible distinction obtainable at the School of Naval Architecture .
From 1867 to 1871 he remained in the Admiralty service , performing the duties of a subordinate shipbuilding officer at various places\#151 ; including work as an assistant overseer of the ill-fated " Captain " while she was building at Birkenhead , and afterwards as a foreman of the dockyard at Portsmouth .
In this manner his practical experience was enlarged , while from time to time there was need for applications of scientific knowledge .
In connection with the inquiry into the loss of the " Captain , " Elgar gave valuable assistance to the master shipwright at Portsmouth , in placing before the court-martial evidence in relation to the special conditions of stability resulting from the low freeboard and considerable sail-power of that vessel .
In 1871 , Dr. Elgar quitted the Admiralty service and became chief assistant to Sir Edward Reed , with whom a professional connection was maintained up to 1879 .
From 1879 to 1886 his professional* work is best described as that of a consulting naval architect , and was of a varied and important character .
From 1874 to 1876 he undertook the responsible duty of General Manager to Earle 's Shipbuilding Company , at Hull ; from 1879 Francis Elgar .
IX to 1881 he acted as special naval adviser to the Japanese Government , and resided in Japan .
In 1883 , Dr. Elgar was appointed as Professor of Naval Architecture at Glasgow , and thus became the first University professor of that subject in Great Britain .
He occupied that post until the beginning of 1886 , when the Admiralty invited him to become Director of .the Royal Dockyards .
The duties of that important office were fulfilled admirably by him until 1892 , when he resigned , in order to become consulting naval architect and director of the Fairfield Shipbuilding Company , which was then engaged on the construction of the Cunard steamships " Campania " and " Lucania , " the largest and swiftest trans-Atlantic steamers built up to that date .
For fifteen years this connection was maintained , and under Dr. Elgar 's guidance many new and successful types of mercantile and warships were produced ; the reputation of the firm being enhanced , and commercial success attained .
Desiring to enjoy a well-earned leisure , Elgar resigned this position in 1906 , but before long he was asked to undertake an even greater responsibility , and acceded to the request chiefly for the purpose of protecting large interests which friends had in the great firm .of Cammell , Laird , and Co. The operations of that firm include all branches of steel manufacture , armour-plate making , shipbuilding , and engineering , and its position was not satisfactory when Elgar became Chairman .
Before long the Chairmanship of the Fairfield Company was added , and thus the closing year of his life became the most trying and responsible period of his whole career .
He was called upon to face and overcome serious difficulties not of his own making , and did so with an ability and courage which his friends knew would be forthcoming .
His efforts to effect improvement and to restore confidence and credit were to a large extent successful , but the resultant strain upon him was necessarily severe , and while he was taking a holiday at Monte Carlo the end came unexpectedly , the immediate cause of death being an embolism .
From the foregoing summary it will be seen that Dr. Elgar was closely connected throughout his professional career with the practical and commercial sides of shipbuilding , but his interest in scientific work never flagged .
During the period when he was in practice as a consulting naval architect he conducted many important investigations into the stability of merchant ships to which accidents had happened , the causes of which were obscure .
Amongst these were the foundering of the Orient liner " Austral " in Sydney harbour , which Elgar demonstrated to be due to want of proper precaution during coaling operations ; the ship having been heeled over to such an extent that water entered through openings which might have been secured or kept above water-level .
Another exceptional disaster investigated by him was that to a vessel named the " Daphne , " which capsized immediately after being launched on the Clyde .
Other investigations were made in connection with inquiries before the Wreck Commissioner , and the general conclusions reached by Dr. Elgar were embodied in valuable papers published in the * Transactions of the Institution of Naval Architects ' ; one x Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
dealt with " The Use of Stability Calculations in regulating the Loading of ' Steamers .
" In another paper entitled " Notes upon Losses at Sea , " a careful analysis was made of the more potent causes of disaster to ships of the mercantile marine .
A more theoretical view of calculations for stability was illustrated in papers appearing in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society/ viz. , " The Variation of Stability with Draught of Water in Ships , " ' Proc./ vol. 37 , No. 84 , p. 205 ; " Notes upon the Straining of Ships caused by Rolling , " ' Proc./ vol. 40 , No. 86 , p. 22 .
Dr. Elgar also devoted much attention to investigations into the structural strength of ships , and particularly that of fast passenger steamers : while questions relating to ship-propulsion at high speeds necessarily arose and had to be dealt with in connection with the work of which he had charge at Fairfield .
Warships also interested him , and papers on their Cost and Relative Power contributed to the ' Transactions of the Institution of Naval Architects 5 are of permanent value .
To those ' Transactions ' most of Elgar 's papers were contributed , and he served as a representative of that Institution on many Committees whose labours greatly influenced the safety and efficiency of the British mercantile marine .
Amongst these may be mentioned the Load Line Committee , appointed by the Board of Trade in 1883 , on whose report legislation was based which has proved to be a practical settlement of a difficult question ; the Consultative Committee on technical matters , appointed to assist the Marine Department of the Board of Trade in 1896 ; and the Advisory Committee on subjects relating to shipping , appointed by the President of the Board of Trade in 1906 .
Dr. Elgar also represented the Institution of Naval Architects for many years on Lloyd 's Technical Sub-Committee , and on the Engineering Standards Committee .
He served for some years on the Committee of the National Physical Laboratory , and was actively interested in the establishment of the Experimental Tank which the munificence of Mr. Yarrow has made possible .
For many years he acted as Treasurer to the Institution of Naval Architects , and occupied that position up to the time of his death ; he was also an Honorary Vice-President , having served on the Council for twenty-five years .
His interests in engineering and the allied sciences were far-reachiug and : active .
He was a member of many Technical Societies at home and abroad , and when he died was a member of the Councils of the Institution of Civil Engineers , the Institute of Metals , and the Royal Society of Arts .
He did good work as a Royal Commissioner at the international exhibitions at Chicago and in Paris ( 1900 ) , and was appointed Chevalier of the Legion of Honour .
He also organised the important shipbuilding section of the Franco-British Exhibition in 1908 .
It was natural that Dr. Elgar should have been much interested in technical education , and he gave many proofs of that feeling ; founding a scholarship in naval architecture at the Institution of Naval Architects , and making handsome bequests both to that Institution and to the Depart- XI Georg von N meant of Naval Architecture in the University of Glasgow .
Since the foundation of the Imperial College of Science and Technology Dr. Elgar served on the Governing Body as the representative of the Institution of Naval Architects .
As a manager of the Boyal Institution he helped forward the research work of Sir James Dewar into low temperatures , and in many other ways displayed great interest in scientific investigation .
Belonging to the generation of British shipbuilders which unites systematic and scientific education with a thoroughly practical training , Dr. Elgar was a notable example of the advantages resulting from that combination .
The high character of his achievement was appropriately recognised both by members of his own profession and by many scientific bodies .
He was given the Honorary Degree of LL. D. by the University of Glasgow , and elected a Fellow of the Boyal Society of Edinburgh during his tenure of the Professorship at Glasgow .
Dr. Elgar was elected a Fellow of the Boyal Society in 1895 , and was much interested in its work , although his professional engagements prevented him from taking an active part therein .
Dr. Elgar married , in 1889 , Ethel , daughter of Mr. John Howard Colls , of London , who survives him and commands the sympathy of the very large circle of friends which her husband had secured by his rare personal .qualities and high character .
W. H. W. GEOBG YON NEUMAYEB , 1826\#151 ; 1909 .
Georg Balthazar Neumayer\#151 ; more generally known as Georg von Neumayer\#151 ; was born at Kirchheim Bolanden , in the Bavarian Palatinate , on 21st June , 1826 : the son of the Mayor , who was a Boyal Notary of that place .
Commencing his preparatory education when seven years old at Frankenthal , in due time Neumayer entered the Boyal Lyceum of Spires , passing an excellent final examination on leaving .
In 1845 he passed on to the Technical High School at Munich , where his principal subjects of study were mathematics , physics , and astronomy .
Having completed his terms at the High School , he devoted a year to practical work , serving for a portion of that time as assistant to Prof. Beindl at the Physical Institute of the University , and the remainder at the Astronomical Observatory at Bogenhausen under that eminent astronomer and magnetician Yon Lamont .
xii Obituary Notices of Fellows .
It was during this year that he decided upon those branches of science which were to become the object of his life 's work .
At the same time , her was subject to other stirring influences , which caused him to decide that his work should be connected with the sea .
First of these were the writings of Friedrich List , the South German political economist and never-tiring advocate of a powerful navy for Germany .
Neumayer foresaw that science must have due prominence in the naval , as in other matters .
He became enthusiastic on the subject and , with the work and lead of Maury before him , saw that much could be done by observations made at sea if scientifically treated , and that they might lead to the attainment of results of great value to seamen .
As a landsman , the full possibilities of scientific work at sea were by no means clear to his mind , so with characteristic energy he determined to-learn at first hand what could be done there .
Thus at the age of twenty-four , when for most young men the passion for a sea life has considerably waned , he entered as an apprentice before the mast on board the Hamburg ship " Luise , " making a voyage to Brazil and back .
On his return he went through a theoretical course at the Hamburg Navigation School , and then became a teacher of navigation there .
Later on he was a teacher at the Trieste Marine Academy , but desiring to continue his practical career at sea , he , in 1852 , shipped as a seaman in the Hamburg barque " Reiherstieg , " bound for Melbourne , Australia .
Finding his surroundings on board that ship unfavourable to his object , .
Neumayer obtained his discharge at Melbourne , and went to the goldfields .
There he found numerous German seamen who had deserted their ships to seek their fortune , and these he got together for instruction in navigation with a view to their becoming better equipped for a return to their calling .
Leaving the goldfields in 1853 , he went to Hobart , in Tasmania , for a time , and conducted a series of magnetic observations at Sir James Ross 's old observatory , besides making scientific expeditions in that colony and Australia .
Being , however , desirous of more experience at sea , he returned to Europe in the " Sovereign of the Seas , " an English ship then famous for making remarkably quick passages .
Consequent on his experience in the Colonies , Neumayer conceived the-design of establishing an observatory at Melbourne , where terrestrial magnetism and meteorology should be the chief subjects of observation .
He was so strongly supported in this object by Airy in England , and Riimker , A. von Humboldt , and J. von Liebig in Germany , that King Maximilian of Bavaria provided the means for carrying out his plans .
Provided with the necessary instruments , Neumayer , in 1857 , went to Melbourne and there established the Flagstaff Observatory .
After a while the work there was found of sufficient importance to recommend it to the-Government of Yictoria , and the observatory was taken over by them in 1859 , Neumayer being appointed the Superintendent .
Desirous of again returning to his own country , he resigned his appointment Georg von Neumayer .
Xll in 1864 , and sailed for Europe in the British ship " Garawalt " with the rich store of observations he had made in Australia .
A special grant of money having been placed at his disposal by the Government of Victoria to defray the cost of reducing and publishing the results of those observations , Neumayer retired to his home in the Bavarian Palatinate , and for some years devoted his time to that purpose .
His labours resulted in the publication of four volumes printed in English .
The chief of these was that on the magnetic survey of Victoria during 1857\#151 ; 64 , a survey made at the cost of prolonged physical exertion in a new and sparsely populated country , often in mountainous districts , and with the cares of a newly established observatory on his shoulders .
Meteorology , another branch of science to which he devoted much time , formed the subject of another of these volumes .
It will be now seen that for twenty-two years Neumayer led somewhat of a chequered life , but , for one whose earlier years had been so well occupied , a life eminently suitable to the purpose , of which he never lost sight , that of being a sound adviser on navigational subjects to the growing navy of his country .
Thus , in 1872 his services were required at the newly established Imperial Hydrographic Department at Berlin , where a special post was created for him .
Here his work was directed to the interests of hydrography , maritime meteorology , terrestrial magnetism , and the magnetism of iron ships .
He was also largely instrumental in the despatch , in 1874 , of the " Gazelle " on her scientific voyage round the world .
After four years ' service at the Admiralty , Neumayer was appointed Director of the Naval Observatory at Hamburg , then in its infancy .
His powers of organisation and position in the scientific world , coupled with his experience at sea , found him well fitted for such a post , and he felt he had attained his full reward when the Naval Observatory , having considerably expanded in its work , was finally established in that fine building the " Deutsche Seewarte , " of Hamburg , and he became Director .
This excellent institution was opened by H.M. the Emperor William I , on its completion in 1881 .
The value of the work done at the " Deutsche Seewarte , " and of the publications coming therefrom , is too well known to require special notice here , and many pages of ' Nature ' have shown what has been done in the past under the Director 's able administration and guidance .
He paid several visits to London during his life , chiefly in connection with his work on Terrestrial Magnetism and Meteorology ; but , in 1898 , he went there specially in order to take part in a Meeting at the lloyal Society , to consider the question of the resumption of Antarctic exploration .
Eor some forty years Neumayer had been an ardent advocate of such exploration , both in Germany and England , and his speech on that occasion was thoughtful and favourably impressive towards early action .
In 1899 he was elected a Foreign Member of the Koyal Society .
Visitors to the Deutsche Seewarte , of whatever nationality , were always xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
sure of a most courteous reception from Neumayer , who spared neither time nor trouble to explain the nature and results of the work carried on there , or to discuss matters of interest in science .
A fellow citizen of Hamburg has written of him : " Whosoever had the opportunity of entering into personal intercourse with him found his cordial , free , and obliging disposition and lively temperament most charming .
His hearty eloquence on behalf of great objects was irresistible , his suggestions efficacious and fertile .
He was always ready with well-meant and useful advice to those in distress , and his warm heart vouchsafed substantial aid to many whose gratitude he well earned .
" It was the same in Australia , for when he was President of the German Club at Melbourne he was always ready to assist a fellow countryman in trouble .
In his seventy-seventh year , having served as Director of the Deutsche Seewarte for twenty-seven years , Neumayer retired and was honoured with the award of that Observatory 's gold medal .
He then went to reside at his old home , Neustadt on the Haardt .
A worker to the last , he there prepared for the press the results of a magnetic survey which he made of the Bavarian Palatinate during the years 1855\#151 ; 56 .
He also revised , for a third edition , his work " Anleitung zu wissenschaftlichen Beobachtungen auf Reisen , " and in 1901 published his book " Auf zum Siidpol .
" Neumayer never married , but his later years wrere much cheered by the society of his sister , who lived next door to him .
He enjoyed good health until the winter of 1907\#151 ; 8 , when he was afflicted with a dangerous bronchial catarrh , from which he only partially recovered .
The death of his sister , aged eighty , proved to be a crushing blow , as it left him thenceforth much alone , his other relations living at some distance .
After a few days of illness in bed , he died at his residence on 25th May , 1909 .
The Wirkliche Geheimer Rat Excellenz Professor Dr. von Neumayer\#151 ; an honourable title he had received a few years ago\#151 ; was a devoted son of his Fatherland , but not a chauvinist ; a philanthropist without ostentation , he devoted a long life to the promotion of scientific navigation in several of its branches , and succeeded right well .
E. W. C. XV LORD ROSSE , 1840\#151 ; 1908 .
Laukence , fourth Earl of Rosse , was the son of William Parsons , third Earl of Rosse ( 1800\#151 ; 1867 ) , who founded the scientific fame of his family by his work for instrumental and observational astronomy .
The education of Laurence , who was born in 1840 , was placed in the hands of private tutors , and was under the constant supervision of both his parents .
Later he entered Trinity College , Dublin , but saw little of college life , as not only was he non-resident , but his attendance at lectures was kept under supervision by parents and tutors .
A certain shyness , which remained with him throughout his life , probably originated in a boyhood and youth passed almost entirely in family seclusion .
His studies when in the University were chiefly directed to mathematics and physics ; classical scholarship had little attraction for him .
After taking his degree he remained at home , where he took an active part in the construction of telescopes and in the observational work .
The following note by Dr. Otto Boeddicker , who for nearly twenty-eight years was associated with the late Earl in the astronomical work carried on at the ' Birr Observatory , not only throws light upon the scientific methods pursued by Lord Rosse , but describes many interesting personal characteristics .
" His first astronomical work consisted in observations and sketches of nebulae , especially the outlying portions of the Orion Nebula , afterwards engraved by Basire , and published by the Royal Society ( the central portion being drawn by Mr. Samuel Hunter ) .
Physical experiments were also uninterruptedly carried on without leading to many publications .
Some of these were on the electric resistance of selenium and on the polarisation of the moon 's light .
Neither were ever taken up again after the first tentative experiments , because the attempt to measure the moon 's heat soon began to absorb all time and interest .
At first an ordinary pair of Melloni 's piles ( by Elliot ) connected in series , but in opposite directions ( so as to neutralise external disturbances ) , were used in the focus of the smaller ( 3 feet)rreflector ; but they were found to be too bulky for the extreme smallness of the heat effect .
Their reduction in size was therefore necessary , and this led to endless experiments in the making of thermopiles , until at last the single thermo-couple , with a small copper face , was evolved .
The metals used were at first bismuth and antimony , then iron and German silver .
The couples were cast in home-made moulds ; quite recently , however , the metals were used in the shape of wires , so as to reduce still further the mass to be heated .
These experiments were still carried on when I came to Birr Castle in 1880 , and were continued at intervals until a few years before his death .
The last apparatus\#151 ; a portable reflector of 2 feet aperture and 18 inches focus\#151 ; for lunar heat observation was not shown until two days after his VOL. lxxxiii.\#151 ; A. c xvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased death , at the Dublin meeting of the British Association .
I should add that attempts at observing the heat from Venus were also made on many occasions , but always without success .
I enumerate other subjects taken in hand by him , most of them , however , to be dropped after a comparatively short time .
" 1 .
Spectroscopic observations .
The instrument was a large and very heavy spectroscope by Browning , bought by his father .
It was found practically impossible to attach it to the 3-feet reflector and to keep the image on the slit .
Though the attempts continued off and on for very many years , no results of value were ever obtained .
" 2 .
The measurement of the lunar heat made it desirable to compare it with the moon 's light , particularly during the progress of an eclipse .
The apparatus consisted in a lens-combination , concentrating the moon into an artificial star , which was measured with a Pritchard ( wedge ) photometer .
The results were not satisfactory , as the wedge was not sufficiently sensitive to observe the finer gradations of light .
A Zollner photometer had been used similarly in Copeland 's time without result .
" 3 .
Solar photometry and heat-measurements made in order to compare the moon 's with the sun 's heat .
The solar radiation was reduced by the rapid revolution of a slotted screen in front of the thermopile .
" 4 .
In order to compare the lunar heat with a terrestrial source a copper vessel containing boiling water was used as radiator to which the thermopiles were exposed .
" 5 .
Astronomical photography was carried on with considerable success .
As the focal length of the 3-feet reflector is very considerable , a very long exposure was required .
This was most inconvenient , as the instrument is totally uncovered .
Lord Rosse introduced , therefore , into the focus of the telescope a lens-combination\#151 ; in fact , the objective of a fine old Browning opera-glass\#151 ; by which the image was considerably reduced with a corresponding increase in intensity .
Thus it became possible to photograph the Huygenian Region of the Orion Nebula in five minutes .
The images were very small\#151 ; less than 1 inch in diameter\#151 ; but capable of considerable enlargement .
The late Sir G. Stokes took a great interest in these experiments ; yet a detailed description of the arrangement with the results obtained\#151 ; though intended\#151 ; was never published .
" 6 .
Milky Way photography was carried on with a 10x8 camera and a large Dallmeyer lens , mounted in a thoroughly characteristic fashion .
The equatorial mounting was by Merz , bought second-hand in London ; the clock movement a turret-clock bought at an auction , the weight replaced by a self-made cup-wheel driven by water-power ( like a ' Thirlemere ' motor ) , and the pendulum by two electro-magnets alternately magnetised by a contactbreaking pendulum clock in the observatory ; the first control was done by a ball-governor connected with the turret-clock by means of part of an old grandfather 's clock movement ; the second by a friction lever , actuated by a bevelled gear arrangement and acting every second directly on the Lord R xvn cup-wheel .
The whole combination\#151 ; though very rough\#151 ; works most admirably .
" In fact , Lord Eosse 's chief gifts were mechanical , and endless were his ideas and designs of mechanical arrangements , all of a most ingenious character .
Thus , since the middle of the eighties , he , himself , gradually ceased to observe , and devoted himself exclusively to the mechanical part of the work .
He had added a clock movement to the 3-feet and 6-feet reflectors years before , but since '80 he completed the former by a very efficient electric control .
He attempted the same for the 6-foot , but without success , on account of its being mounted on a universal joint , being thus neither an equatorial nor an altazimuth .
Another ingenious idea should be mentioned , put into action during the transit of Yenus in 1882 , which we intended to photograph .
The difficulty was to operate the shutter sufficiently quickly .
After many experiments , he attached the shutter to a piston moving in a cylinder or barrel .
This he loaded with powder like a muzzle-loader , and , through a small hole , by means of a ' fuzee ' match , shot the shutter across the plate .
" That Lord Eosse possessed original mechanical genius and inventiveness admits of no doubt .
His laboratory and workshop were filled with ingenious contrivances of his own invention .
Those who were privileged to explore laboratory and foundry attended by him , whose life-long interest centred therein , will not forget the enthusiasm with which the various contrivances were shown , and the masterly way in which the subject of speculum casting , grinding , and polishing were explained .
One felt that the speaker was filled with his subject , and that one listened to a man who in this domain of science had " found himself .
" But while Lord Eosse 's gifts were mainly those of the inventor it would be quite erroneous to suppose that the observational results did not interest and inspire him .
Indeed , it is known that the inadequate attention with which his results on lunar temperature were received vras a matter of continued disappointment to him .
His devotion to the great science which he served only ceased with his life .
His publications are scattered in various periodicals .
Eeference to a few of his principal papers will serve to indicate , in addition to what has been already stated , the varied nature of his work .
One of the earliest ( 1868 ) , appearing in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' of the Eoyal Society , is occupied with an account of the famous observations made on the great nebula in Orion from the year 1848 to 1867 ; observations which perhaps more than any others contributed to the celebrity of the Birr Observatory .
A year later appeared , in the same publication , the first paper on the heat radiated from the moon .
At intervals in succeeding years papers appeared on the construction of thermopiles and on the lunar observations for which the thermopiles were required .
This brings his work up to the year 1873 .
About this time he delivered the Bakerian Lecture on the Eadiation of Heat xviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
from the Moon and on the Law of its Absorption .
Then follow observational notes on the markings of Jupiter , and on the satellites of Uranus , and , later , on the satellites of Mars .
These appeared in the Astronomical Society 's Monthly Notices or in 'Nature .
' Several papers were contributed to the Koyal Dublin Society 's journals , on nebulae and star-clusters .
There is also one on telescope mountings , contributed to the ' Philosophical Transactions .
' One of special interest appears in ' Copernicus ' on a determination of lunar heat made during an eclipse .
The remarkable phenomena attending the outbreak in Nova Persei were observed at Birr , and recorded in the Monthly Notices .
This was in 1901 .
In 1905 , Lord Rosse again writes upon the subject of lunar radiant heat ; during the last ten years of his life , however , there seems to have been little fresh work undertaken .
But his inventive gifts had not failed him .
The contrivance for arresting floating leaves in streams supplying turbines is marked by subtle ingenuity ( 'Brit .
Assoc. Rep. , ' 1901 ) .
This contrivance was installed at Birr and served to remove a source of difficulty which had continually interfered with the supply of electricity for the lighting of the castle .
The published work , it will be seen , is mainly observational .
In the development of the steam turbine , invented by Lord Rosse 's distinguished brother , the Hon. Charles Algernon Parsons , the late Earl took , as might be supposed , the keenest interest .
He served as Chairman not only of the first company formed to develop the invention , but of the existing Parsons ' Marine Steam Turbine Company , seldom missing a meeting , and often crossing from Ireland specially for the occasion .
He contributed many thoughtful and valuable suggestions towards the mechanical perfection of the new steam engine .
It remains to refer to the late Earl in his capacity of Chancellor of the University of Dublin .
The universal respect in which Lord Rosse was held did much to sustain and enhance the dignity of the office .
Towards the latter years of his life he took an active part in the movement for the scientific advancement of the University .
It had long been felt within the College\#151 ; which in a sense includes the University\#151 ; that the development of the experimental side of scientific teaching and research which began with the earlier years of George Francis FitzGerald 's tenure of the chair of Experimental Physics had been unduly arrested by lack of funds .
Development was indeed progressing all along the line of the sciences taught within Trinity College , and everywhere the same restrictions were in evidence .
The sciences of Botany , Geology , and Engineering more especially felt the want of accommodation and equipment .
The subjects of Chemistry , Pathology , etc. , had been already considerably developed in connection with the rejuvenation of the great Medical School , through the enlightened action of the Board of Trinity College and largely under the inspiration of the late Dr. Haughton .
But an undertaking of the magnitude now called for was beyond the financial capacity of the College , threatened as it was ( and is ) by the disastrous effects of successive Land Acts .
A Committee formed within / Lord R xix the College for the purpose of making recommendations to the governing body , after long and arduous labours , was reduced to helplessness in face of the financial situation .
At this juncture the late Chancellor communicated to the Committee a proposal to head a public subscription list with a generous gift ; and within a few weeks Lord Eosse was able to announce the munificent offer of Viscount Iveagh , the present Chancellor of the University , to undertake the whole cost of new building and equipment in the event of the friends of the University subscribing the sum requisite for upkeep .
The importance of the movement was at once brought home to the public and to the graduates of the University .
The scientific future of the University thus stands bound up with the names of the two Chancellors .
To the last days of his life the late Earl of Eosse was mindful of his old University .
A characteristically generous and delicate letter is in the possession of the present writer referring to financial arrangements with the Committee superintending the expenditure on the upkeep of the new laboratories .
The letter is filled with thoughtfulness for the welfare and \#166 ; progress of the work , and he deplores the extent to which his illness interferes with his duties as Chancellor .
He was then very weak and ill .
The letter is dated August 4th .
On the 30th he died .
In his will he bequeathed a sum of money to his University to be expended in advancement of the Science Schools .
Few men have had a greater hold upon the affection and respect of their contemporaries .
The reticence and shyness which seemed be}rond his power to control did not hide from his friends the delicacy of feeling , the perfect honour , and gentle nature of the man .
The late Earl was created a Knight of the Order of St. Patrick in 1890 .
He was elected a Fellow of the Eoyal Society in 1867 .
He served as High Sheriff of King 's County and as President both of the Eoyal Dublin Society and of the Eoyal Irish Academy .
He succeeded to the title in 1867 , and in 1870 married the Hon. Frances Cassandra Harvey-Hawke , daughter of the fourth Baron Hawke .
He died in 1908 , his eldest son , William Edward .Parsons , Lord Oxmantown , succeeding to the title .
J. J. XX Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
ANTOINE HENRI BECQUEREL , 1852\#151 ; 1908 .
Henri Becquerel was born in Paris , December 15 , 1852 , and received his early education at the Lycee Louis le Grand .
He entered l'Ecole Poly technique in 1872 .
Two years later he went as a pupil to l'^cole des Pouts et Chaussees , where he soon became one of their Engineers , and afterwards for ten years Chief Engineer .
In 1878 he was appointed Aide-Naturaliste to the Mus4e d'Histoire Naturelle under his father , Prof. Edmund Becquerel .
He succeeded his father in the Chair of Physics in l'TCcole Polytechnique , where he had been demonstrator since 1876 .
In 1892 the Directors of the Musee d'Histoire Naturelle appointed Henri Becquerel to the Professorship of Physics , a chair already rendered illustrious by his father and grandfather , and earlier , by Gay-Lussac .
In 1889 , at the early age of 36 , he was elected a Member of the Academy des Sciences in 1908 he became its President , and a few months later Perpetual Secretary .
There seems to be a fatality attaching to this office .
In a single year , 1908 , three Perpetual Secretaries died\#151 ; Berthelot , Laparent\#151 ; and now IT .
Becquerel , who filled the office only six short weeks .
The genius of Becquerel was widely recognised .
He was a Foreign Member of the Royal Society , an Honorary Member of the Academy of Berlin , of the R. Accad .
dei Lincei of Rome , and of the National Academy of Sciences of Washington .
He was D.C.L. Oxon , Sc. D. Camb .
, and Hon. F.C.S. , Officer of the Legion of Honour , and one of the most valued Honorary Members of the Royal Institution .
He received the Rumford Medal of the Royal Society in 1900 , the Helmholtz Medal at Berlin in 1901 , the Nobel Prize ( with Madame Curie ) in 1903 , and the Barnard Medal of the United States National Academy in 1905 .
In 1892 he delivered a Friday evening discourse at the Royal Institution , on " La Radio-activite de la Matiere , " describing the researches which led to his discovery of the " Becquerel rays .
" The Becquerel family furnishes to students of Heredity a most striking illustration of transmitted capacity .
Their scientific activity covers nearly the whole of the nineteenth century and overlaps the twentieth .
For three generations Beequerels , in lineal descent , have occupied an important professorship in the same Institution , and the family tradition is likely to prevail through a fourth generation .
Commencing with the grandfather of Henri , Antoine Cesar Becquerel , whose intellectual activity extended from 1819 to 1879 ; continuing through his father , Alexandre Edmund Becquerel , .
whose published works extend from 1839 to 1883 , we come to Henri Becquerel , whose first published paper appeared in the ' Comptes Rendus for 1875 , and whose last paper appeared shortly before his death in 1908 .
Henri Becquerel was acutely interested in the strange fact that three Antoine Ilenri xxi generations of liis family had worked successively in the same branch of physical enquiry .
This continuity of research held him in a charmed bondage , and irresistibly he was urged to follow the track disclosed by his kinsmen .
Working in the same restricted laboratory , with the self-same instruments used by his father and grandfather , he could not fail to be impressed by such strange environment , and by the consciousness of uninterrupted discoveries in electricity , phosphorescence and fluorescence , and radio-activity .
With ardour he devoted himself to speculations on the origin of ponderable matter , and on the disestablishment of the chemical atom as the immutable basis of all things .
He minimised his own vast share in the important work on radiations , saying , " these discoveries are only the lineal descendants of those of my father and grandfather on phosphorescence , and without them my own discoveries would have been impossible .
" To enumerate all his valuable contributions to science during his thirty-three years of active work would occupy too much space ; the details are , or will be , on record in the Koyal Society Catalogue of Scientific Papers .
He was the first to observe the phenomena of rotatory magnetic polarisation in gases ; his original paper on this subject was favourably reported by Fizeau .
Continuing the investigation he was able to increase the sensitiveness of his instrumental means , until , by availing himself of Faraday 's device of repeated reflection of the same luminous ray through the magnetic field , he reduced the length of his gas tubes from 30 to 3 metres .
He then could detect an appreciable rotation of the plane of atmospheric polarisation by the earth 's magnetism , 150 kiloms .
of air rotating the plane of polarisation about 20 ' .
He utilised his skill in these researches by constructing a very accurate secondary standard of the ampere , based on the rotation of the plane of polarisation in a given length of carbon disulphide , produced by a current of electricity flowing through a standard wire helix .
In 1888 he reduced the complicated phenomena accompanying the passage of light through coloured crystals , chiefly of didymium and its kindreds , to a scheme that would include the observed facts .
He thus initiated a new method of spectrum analysis , on which , by an examination of the transmitted rays , he was able to show whether the base was elementary or compound .
The significant variations consist in the difference in intensity of the bands of absorption , so that if several different substances are present , the absorption due to each base can be recognised .
In this way he showed that not only was didymium a compound , but that neodymium itself was not simple , and acting on this hint llemar^ay succeeded in splitting it into two other substances .
So delicate did this optical test becomo in the hands of its discoverer that he could distinguish the presence of impurities in crystals when the quantities present were too small to be detected chemically .
It has been the privilege of the writer on more than one occasion to visit Henri Becquerel 's laboratory and to assist at the research of the moment .
What struck one as remarkable was the facility with which experimental xxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
apparatus was extemporised .
Card , gummed paper , glass plates , sealing waxr copper wire , rapidly and almost spontaneously seemed to grow before one 's eyes into just the combination suitable to settle the point under investigation .
The answer once obtained , the materials were put aside or modified so as to constitute a second interrogation of nature .
The most alluring subject seemed to be that of phosphorescence .
When Lenard and Bontgen published their memorable papers on new radiations he attacked the subject with renewed vigour , and zealously followed up his father 's work of 1872 on the light emitted by phophorescent uranium compounds .
The writer visited Henri Becquerel 's laboratory one memorable morning when experiments were in progress which culminated in the discovery of the " Becquerel Bays , " and of " Spontaneous Badio-activity .
" Uranium salts of all kinds were seen in glass cells , inverted on photographic plates enclosed in black paper , and also the resulting images automatically impressed on the sensitive plates .
Becquerel was working on the phosphorescence of uranium compounds after insolation ; starting with the discovery that sun-excited uranium nitrate gave out rays capable of penetrating opaque paper and then acting photographically , he had devised another experiment in which , between the plate and the uranium salt , he interposed a sheet of black paper and a small cross of thin copper .
On bringing the apparatus into daylight the sun had gone in , so it was put back into the dark cupboard and there left for another opportunity of insolation .
But the sun persistently kept behind clouds for several days , and , tired of waiting ( or with the unconscious prevision of genius ) , Becquerel developed the plate .
To his astonishment , .
instead of a blank , as expected , the plate had darkened under the uranium as strongly as if the uranium had been previously exposed to sunlight , the image of the copper cross shining out white against the black background-This was the foundation of the long series of experiments which led to the-remarkable discoveries which have made " Becquerel Bays " a standard expression in Science .
This property of uranium compounds was found not to fade with lapse of time ; it does not require starting by exposure to the sun 's rays , is an inherent property of the atoms of uranium itself .
Faraday'\amp ; saying comes to mind\#151 ; " One good failure often teaches more than the most successful experiment .
" The discovery in 1898 of radium gave a powerful impetus to all radio-graphic work , and profoundly modified all previous ideas on that subject .
Henri Becquerel was one of the first to correlate the new facts brought forth by radium with his old discoveries in connection with uranium .
He was the first to obtain a small specimen of radium bromide from M. and Mdrne .
Curie , and one of the earliest experiments he tried with it was to expose the bundle of rays emitted by the radium salt to the influence of an electro-magnet .
By this means he separated them into three categories:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Bays which are positively electrified particles of the dimensions of a chemical atom ; these rays are scarcely at all deflected by the magnet ; ( 2 ) Bays ( now recognised as Antoine Henri xxiii electrons ) which are deflected considerably by a magnet in the opposite direction to the first-named rays ; and ( 3 ) Rays which are not at all deflected by a magnet and consist probably of ethereal vibrations , the same as Rontgen or X-rays .
Henri Becquerel 's own view as to the origin of the energy emitted by radio-active bodies was given in a Friday evening discourse at the Royal Institution on March 7 , 1892 .
" The origin of this energy , " he said , " is an enigma .
On the material hypothesis it does not seem improbable to liken the phenomenon to the emission of perfume by an odorous body ; to compare the emanation to a kind of gas , the particles of which are of the order of magnitude of those of the electrolytic ions ; and to identify the radiation with cathode rays produced by the dislocation of these ions , giving at the same time an emission of X-rays .
The dissipation of energy , therefore , can be associated with the disintegration of active matter .
" With true scientific caution he qualified this hypothesis by adding\#151 ; " However well it explains most of the facts , no accurate experiments exist which give sanction to the hypothesis .
" What will be the probable future of radio-activity ?
In reply to this question I give his own words:\#151 ; \#166 ; " To-day the phenomena are of transcendent interest , but in them almost infinitesimal amounts of energy are utilised .
Whether ultimately science will have so far advanced as to permit of the practical utilisation of the abundant store of energy locked up in every atom of matter is a problem which only the future can answer .
Remember , at the dawn of electricity this was looked on as a mere toy , suitable only to amuse children by attracting bits of paper with a stick of rubbed sealing-wax .
" Henri Becquerel died of heart failure on August 25 , 1908 .
His death was somewhat sudden .
Neither he nor his friends had any suspicion that his heart was weak ; and he was in the habit of taking somewhat strenuous exercise , such as swimming in the sea , mountain climbing , etc. He was twice married , and leaves one son by his first wife .
This son , Jean Becquerel , is a promising follower in the footsteps of his forefathers .
Already he occupies the post held by his father , that of Ingenieur des Fonts et Cliaussdes , and already he is widely known through very valuable papers on the absorption bands of light in crystals at low temperatures , the Zeeman effect therein , and other scientific subjects .
W. C. VOL. LXXXI1I.\#151 ; A. d

