Lunar Variations of Magnetic Declination at Bombay .
135 but against the relaxed diaphragm\#151 ; relaxed , that is , by the abdominal mn^les drawing down the lower ribs , and thus contracting the circumference of the lower part of the chest .
The intercostal muscles also contribute importantly to this result , as the effect of their contraction is reversed , by the lower ribs being relatively fixed during the action of the abdominal muscles .
In this way both the long diameter and circumference of the chest are abridged .
10 The upper and lower costal movements in both sexes , when entirely unfettered , are equal , in ordinary inspiration and in the uncontracted chest* The costal movements , both upper and lower , are much greater in forced inspiration in the male than in the female .
In both , the lower costal movements are much abridged by compression of the abdomen and lower part of the chest , while the upper costal movements are exaggerated .
The observed fact that women breathe more by the chest than by the abdomen is due to artificial compression , and to the altered form of the chest consequent on its early adoption .
February 1,1872 .
Sir JOHN LUBBOCK , Bart. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read i I. " On the Lunar Variations of Magnetic Declination at Bombay .
By Charles Chambers , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory .
Received December 4 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is in continuation of that " On the Solar Variations of Magnetic Declination at Bombay , " published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1869 ; but the discussion is confined to the observations of the years 1861 to 1863 , which alone have as yet been reduced .
The point of principal interest brought o , ut in the discussion is that whilst the mean lunar-diurnal variation is of the ordinary character , having as its principal feature a double oscillation in the lunar day , its range is very small as compared with the several ranges of the lunar-diurnal variations when the sun and moon have several specific varieties of relative position ; and moreover , although in those latter variations the double oscillation is generally preserved as a main feature , correspondence of phase in the representative curves is as generally absent ; and in some cases the curves are , whilst systematic , altogether different in character from the mean lunar-diurna variation curve .
The semiannual inequality in the lunar-diurnal variation , 136 On a possible Ultra-Solar Spectroscopic Phenomenon .
[ Feb. l whilst it is as definitely systematic , has twice the range of the mean lunar , diurnal variation ; and it is also subject to remarkable modifications which accompany changes of phase of the moon .
II .
" Note on a possible Ultra-Solar Spectroscopic Phenomenon .
" By C. Piazzi Smyth , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal for Scotland .
Received December 13 , 1871 .
One great object with the solar-eclipse expeditionists at work to-day in the far East is to trace spectroscopically the existence of any faint solar luminous appendage to a further distance from the sun than the brighter parts of the corona hitherto so identified .
But much further they cannot go , on account of the large amount of general atmospheric illumination during every lunar-solar eclipse .
The matter may , however , be taken up again during a terrestrial solar eclipse , i. e. an ordinary sunset below the horizon , if the sun be sufficiently far below to terminate all aerial twilight .
Under such circumstances , too , it is that the zodiacal light , historically called the sun 's atmosphere , is occasionally seen stretching away to distances of 60 , 90 , and even more degrees from the sun .
Now I have recently been trying to test in this manner an alleged foreign observation of the zodiacal light 's spectrum , but in vain .
Some sort of faint bluing of the dark night sky there certainly was over the north-western horizon when the sun was more than 18 ' vertically below , and its spectrum I noted at the time , but only as being that of the very last of the twilight .
Perhaps it was only that ; but perhaps , also , it may have been the direct light of some solar appendage approximating to the outer coronal region ; for , on making up the accompanying plate* of nine observed spectra , and comparing them with a tabular solar spectrum , a wide distance was manifested between the place of maximum light in the solar continuous spectrum , as given by Fraunhofer , or near wave-length 5620 , and in my so-called residual twilight spectrum , which was wave-length 5300 .
I tested , therefore , lately Fraunhofer 's value for the solar spectrum in my own night-apparatus , by darkening its objective to all but extinction with four thicknesses of linen cloth in the middle of a dull , grey day , and found for the last visible portion of continuous spectrum wave-length 5700 nearly ; that is , Fraunhofer 's value was confirmed , and my residual-twilight spectrum left anomalous as regards the ordinary solar spectrum , but remarkably agreeable with the corona spectrum , whose chief line has wavelength 5322 , and which spectrum has been shown by Mr. Lockyer to decrease its number of lines , and tend to form a faint continuous spectrum , as it thins out with increase of distance from the sun 's limb .
* See plate 54 , vol. xiii .
, " Astronomical Observations made at the Royal Observatory , Edinburgh .
"

