464 Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ Jan. 11 , January 11 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Further Observations on the Locomotor System of Medusje .
" By George J. Romanes , M.A. , F.L.S. , \amp ; c. Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. , \amp ; c. Received November 21 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) I. Fundamental Observations .
S 1 .
Fundamental Observations on the Naked-eyed .\#151 ; The observation which , in my last paper , I designated the " fundamental observation , " has been this year repeated numberless times , both on the old species of naked-eyed Medusae and also on some new ones .
The result has been in every case to confirm the rule previously enunciated , namely , that " excision of the extreme margin of a nectocalyx causes immediate , total , and permanent paralysis of the entire organ .
" S 2 .
Fundamental Observations on the Covered-eyed Medusae.\#151 ; Regarding the covered-eyed Medusae , it is necessary to say that I have this year confirmed all the observations which required confirmation from the fact of their having been at variance with those of Dr. Eimer .
I have continued to find that the lithocysts are the exclusive seats of sponta-neity , so far as the " primary movements " are concerned .
I have failed to detect the slightest evidence of spontaneity on the part of the " contractile zones " ; for , after allowing the animal to recover from the shock consequent upon removal of its lithocysts alone , and then observing the degree of spontaneity it manifested , I was in no case able to perceive that , by now removing all the " contractile zones , " this degree of spontaneity was in the smallest degree diminished .
Again , as regards the character of the " secondary contractions " which are manifested by the covered-eyed Medusae after excision of their lithocysts or margin , I have found all my previous statements substantially correct .
I am still unable to say that these secondary contractions appear to me either more " feeble " or " inefficient " than the primary ones , or that the former are any more of a " local " character than the latter .
Neither can I modify my previous statements as to the time after removal of the lithocysts during which the secondary movements persist .
So far have I found it from being true that these contractions " generally cease after a few moments , or , at any rate , after a few hours , " that I am now able fully to 1877 .
] Locomotor System of Medusae .
465 confirm my original statement to the effect that these contractions " usually last for several days .
" In most cases , indeed , they continue even after decomposition of some parts of the tissues has set in and proceeded to the extent of giving the latter a certain ragged appearance , which is due to certain portions disintegrating into shreds .
II .
Rhythm .
S 1 .
Relation between Size and Rhythm.\#151 ; I am able to endorse Dr. Eimer 's statement that in Aurelia aurita the rate of the natural rhythm has a tendency to bear an inverse proportion to the size of the individual .
Size , however , is far from being the only factor in determining the difference between the rate of rhythm of different specimens , though what the other factors are I am unable to suggest .
S 2 .
Relation betiveen the periods of Activity and the periods of Repose.\#151 ; Dr. Eimer affirms that the duration of the natural pauses , which in Aurelia alternate with bouts of swimming , bears a direct proportion to the number and strength of the contractions that occurred in the previous bout of swimming .
In my postscript I pointed out that Sarsice are much better adapted than Aurelia for determining whether any such precise relation obtains , and observed that here I was quite sure no such precise relation did obtain , although in a very general way it was true , as might be expected , that unusually prolonged bouts of swimming were sometimes followed by pauses of unusual duration .
These statements have now been amply confirmed .
S 3 .
Effects of Artificial Segmentation on the Rhythm.\#151 ; I have also this year investigated Dr. Eimer 's rule with regard to the half , quarter , and eighth-part segments of Aurelia , manifesting respectively a rhythm one half , one quarter , and one eighth part the rate of the rhythm which had previously been manifested by the unmutilated animal .
I am glad to observe that Dr. Eimer himself seems to regard this rule as a somewhat uncertain one , for I cannot say that my experiments have tended to confirm it .
As stated in my previous paper , there is a general tendency for the smaller segments of an Aurelia divided in this way to contract less frequently than the larger segments ; and more careful observations this year have not resulted in establishing any more precise relationship .
On the other hand , these observations have resulted iu confirming my previous opinion , that the potency of the lithocysts which happen to be left in any given segment has more to do with the rate of the rhythm than has the size of the segment ; for it is not difficult to obtain an eighth-part segment with a more rapid rhythm than a segment four times that size , provided that the Aurelia is divided so as to leave a decidedly prepotent lithocyst to animate the smaller segment .
In such cases , however , the endurance of the smaller segment will be less than that of the larger , notwithstanding the greater activity it displays during the first day or two after the operation .
I can only attribute this fact to the more 2l 2 Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ Jan. 11 , rapid starvation of the smaller segment , owing perhaps to the greater proportional area of the nutrient-tube section in it than in the larger segment .
It is interesting , however , to note that although a prepotent lithocyst thus situated shows less endurance than the other lithoeysts towards deprivation of nourishment , it shows more endurance towards deprivation of oxygen ; for in stale water the prepotent lithocyst will continue active after the others have ceased to discharge , or its action will continue rhythmical after that of the others has become irregular .
S 4 .
Effects of other forms of Mutilation on the Rhythm.\#151 ; Mutilation of a covered-eyed Medusa , in which the series of lithocysts is left intact_such as cutting off the manubrium or portions of the umbrella\#151 ; causes marked changes in the rate of the rhythm .
The first effect of the mutilation is usually to accelerate the rhythm ; but this temporary acceleration gradually declines , and eventually the rhythm becomes stationary at a rate slower than that which was manifested by the unmutilated animal .
Further mutilation will now be attended with a repetition of these effects .
To show the degree in which these effects occur , I here quote a series of observations .
An Aurelia manifested per minute a regular and sustained rhythm of ... ... ... ... ... V ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 26 Immediately after removal of manubrium rhythm rose to ... ... ... ... . .
36 Rate then gradually fell for 5 hour , and became stationary at ... ... .
20 Circular incision , just including ovaries , caused rhythm to rise to . .
26 Rate then gradually fell for ^ hour , and became stationary at ... .
17 Another circular incision , carried midway between the former one and the margin , caused rhythm to rise to ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
24 Rate again gradually declined , and became stationary at ... ... ... ... .
12 Another circular incision was then carried round as close to the margin as was compatible " with leaving the physiological continuity of all the lithocysts intact : rhythm rose to ... ... . .
14 Within a few minutes it fell to ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
g Besides producing such marked effects on the rate of the rhythm , mutilation also frequently produces an effect in impairing the regularity of the rhythm .
For instance , an Aurelia manifested a regular and sustained rhythm of 36 per minute .
Immediately after removal of the manubrium , the rate of the rhythm in successive minutes was as follows :_40 , 39 , 37 , 35 , 32 , 30 , 29j 26 , 24 , 18 , 14 ( 40 seconds ' pause ) , 16 , 15 , 14 , 15 , 16 ( 40 seconds ' pause ) , 22 , 20 , 19 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 14 , 13 , 13 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18,14,12 , 13 , 11 , 12 , 9,15 , 16 , 14 , 12 , 9 , \amp ; c. , the rhythm now continuing very irregular .
An hour after the operation the following were the numbers of contractions given in one-minute intervals , the observations being taken at intervals of 10 minutes:\#151 ; 15 , 15 , 12 , 22 , 14 , \amp ; c. These experiments are of interest because tending to show that an 1877 .
] Locomotor System of Medusa .
467 apparently automatic action on the part of ganglia* is really due to a constant stimulation supplied by other parts of the organism .
S 5 .
Effects of lessening the amount of Tissue adhering to a single Ganglion.\#151 ; The results of the following very similar experiment would seem ito point to a similar interpretation .
Excising an eighth-part segment of Aurelia containing a single lithocyst , I noted the rhythm manifested by this segment .
I then proceeded to pare down the contractile tissue from around the lithocyst , and observed the effect of so doing upon the rhythm .
I found that this process had no very marked effect on the rhythm until the paring reached within an inch or two of the ganglion .
Then , however , the effect began to show itself , and with every successive paring it became more marked .
This effect consisted in slowing the rate of the rhythm , though more especially in giving rise to exceedingly prolonged pauses ; but if during one of these pauses a stimulus of any kind were applied to the remainder of the contractile tissue , the rhythmic discharges of the ganglion at once recommenced , and continued for a short time at a slow rate .
S 6 .
Effects of Temperature on the Rhythm.\#151 ; The effects of temperature on the rhythm of Medusae are very decided .
Eor instance , a specimen of Sarsiawhich in successive minutes gave the following numbers of pulsations\#151 ; 16 , 26 , 0 , 0 , 26\#151 ; gave 60 pulsations during the next minute while a spirit-lamp was held under the water in which the Medusa was swimming .
Again , if hot water be added to that in which are contained until the whole is milk-w arm , the swimming-motions become frantic .
If the same experiment be performed after the margins of the Sarsice have been removed , the paralyzed bells remain quite passive , while the seArered margins exhibit the frantic motions just alluded to .
In the case of the covered-eyed Medusae , the greatest accelerating effect is produced by a more moderate temperature .
Eor example , an Aurelia contracted with the greatest regularity 33 times per minute in water kept at 34 ' Eahr .
, while in water kept at 49 ' the rate varied from 37 to 49 per minute .
On the other hand , an Aurelia whose rhythm in water at 40 ' was regular at 18 per minute , was suddenly transferred to water at 80 ' : in the immediately succeeding minutes the rhythm was 22 , 20 , 14 .
The latter rate continued for nearly half an hour , when the observation terminated .
The effect of moderately warm water ( oO \#151 ; 60 ) , therefore , is to cause permanent quickening and irregularity of the rhythm ; while the effect of still warmer water ( 70'-80 ' ) is temporarily to quicken and then permanently to slow the rhythm , as well , I may add , as greatly to enfeeble the contractions .
The slowing effect on the rhythm of a diminution of temperature is decided .
Eor instance , an Aurelia presenting a regular rhythm of 20 * Having now satisfied myself concerning the presence of ganglion-cells and nerve-fibres in the marginal bodies of the Medusae , I feel at liberty to discard the term " locomotor-centres , " which in my former paper I everywhere employed to designate these bodies , and to substitute for it the term " ganglia .
' 403 Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ Jan. 11 , per minute in water at 45 ' was placed in water at 19 ' : the rhythm almost immediately began to slow and the strength of the contractions to diminish , till the rate fell to 10 per minute ( quite regular ) and the contractions ceased to penetrate the muscular tissue further than an inch or two from the marginal ganglia ; pauses now became frequent , but stimulation always originated a fresh bout of swimming .
Next only single contractions were given at long and irregular intervals , and these contractions were so feeble that they were restricted to the immediate vicinity of the lithocyst in which they originated .
Soon after this stage irritability disappeared .
This process from first to last occupied rather less than five minutes .
On now leaving the animal for 10 minutes more , and then transferring it to water at the original temperature of 45 ' , all the above-mentioned stages were passed through in reverse order .
Some specimens of Amelia were frozen into a solid block of sea-water ice .
On being released all their gelatinous tissues were seen to be pierced through in every direction by an innumerable multitude of ice-crystals , which had been formed by the freezing in situ of the sea-water which enters so largely into the composition of these tissues .
Yet , on being thawed out , the animals recovered , although their original rate of rhythm did not fully return .
Their tissues then presented a ragged appearance , which was due to the disintegrating effect produced by the formation of the ice-crystals .
S 7 .
Effects of certain Gases on the Rhythm.\#151 ; Oxygen forced under pressure into sea-water containing Sarsice has the effect of accelerating the rate of their rhythm .
The following observation on a single specimen will serve to render this apparent , the numbers of pulsations being recorded in five-minute intervals/ .
' The progressive recovery from exhaustion during the last of the three observations deserves notice .
In ordinary water ... ... ... ... . . .
472 , 527 , 470 .
In oxygenated sea-water ... ... ... . .
800 .
In ordinary sea-water ... ... ... ... . .
268 , 350 , 430 .
Carbonic acid has the opposite effects to those of oxygen , and , if administered in too large doses , destroys both spontaneity and irritability .
Nitrous oxide at first accelerates the motions of , but eventually retards them .
I omitted , however , to push the experiment to the stage of complete anaesthesia .
Medusae are very sensitive to such slight carbonization of the water in which they are contained as results from their being confined in a limited body of it for a few hours .
The rhythm becomes slowed and the contractions feeble , while the pauses between the swimming-bouts become more and more frequent and prolonged .
If the water is not changed , all these symptoms become more marked , and , in addition , the rhythm becomes more irregular .
Eventually the swimming-motions entirely cease 1877 ' .
] Locomotor System of Medusa .
469 but almost immediately after the animals are restored to fresh sea-water they recover themselves completely .
III .
Stimulation .
S 1 .
Mechanical stimulation .
When the paralyzed swimming-organ of Aurelia aurita is stimulated with a single mechanical irritation , it often responds with two , and more rarely with three , contractions , which are separated from one another by an interval of about the same duration as the normal diastole of the unmutilated animal .
S 2 .
Chemical stimulation.\#151 ; Dilute spirit , or other irritant , dropped on the paralyzed swimming-organ of Amelia aurita , sometimes gives rise to a whole series of rhythmical pulsations , the systoles and diastoles Mowing one another at about the same rate as is observable in the normal swimming-motions of the unmutilated animal .
S3 .
Thermal stimulation.\#151 ; Response to thermal stimulation may be obtained by allowing a few drops of heated sea-water to run over the excitable surface while the latter is exposed to the air .
S 4 .
Luminous stimulation.\#151 ; Light acts as a powerful and unfailing stimulus in the cases of some species of naked-eyed Medusse .
Sarsice , for instance , almost invariably respond to a , single flash by giving one or more contractions . .
If the animal is vigorous , the effect of a momentary flash thrown upon it during one of the natural pauses is immediately to originate a bout of swimming ; but if the animal is non-vigorous , it usually gives only one contraction in response to every flash .
That it is light per se , and not the sudden transition from darkness to light , which here acts as the stimulus , is proved by the result of the converse experiment , \#151 ; viz. placing a vigorous specimen in sunlight , waiting till the middle of one of the natural pauses , and then suddenly darkening .
In no case did I thus obtain any response : indeed the effect of this converse experiment is rather that of inhibiting contractions ; for if the sunlight be suddenly shut off during the occurrence of a swimming-bout , it frequently happens that the quiescent stage immediately sets in .
Again , .
in a general way , it is observable that Sarsice are more active in the light than they are in the dark : it appears as though light acts towards these animals as a constant stimulus .
Nevertheless , when the flashing method of experimentation is employed , it is observable that the stimulating effect of the flashes progressively declines with their repetition .
The time during which the deleterious effect of one such stimulus on its successor lasts appears to be about a quarter of a minute .
The period of latent stimulation is , judging by the eye , as short in the case of luminous as in that of other stimulation ; but when the efficacy of luminous stimulation is being diminished by frequent repetition , the period of latency is very much prolonged .
In this case the first effect of the flash is to cause re traction of the tentacles and manubrium , as occurs with other modes o feeble stimulation or stimulation of feeble , specimens .
Lastly , that t e Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ Jan. 11 , stimulating influence of light is exerted solely through the sense-organs , is proved by the fact that when these are removed the swimming-bell , though still able to contract spontaneously , no longer responds to luminous stimulation ; but if only one marginal body be left in , or if the severed margin alone be experimented upon , unfailing response to this mode of stimulation may be obtained .
Tiaropsis polydiademata responds to luminous stimulation in the same peculiar manner as it responds to all other kinds of stimulation , viz. by performing the spasmodic movements described in my previous paper .
But the period of latency in this species is very much longer in the case of luminous than in that of other modes of stimulation ; for while this period is , so far as the eye can judge , quite as instantaneous as it is in the case of Sarsia when the stimulus supplied is other than luminous , in response to light the characteristic spasm does not take place till slightly more than a second has elapsed after the first occurrence of the stimulus .
Now , as my experiments on Sarsia proved that the only respect in which luminous stimulation differs from other modes of stimulation consists in its being exclusively a stimulation of central nervous matter , we have evidence , in the case of Tiaropsis , of an enormous difference between the rapidity of response to stimuli by the contractile and by the ganglionic tissues respectively .
The next question , therefore , is as to whether the enormous length of time occupied by the process of stimulation in the ganglia is due to any necessity on the part of the latter to accumulate the stimulating influence prior to originating a discharge , or to an immensely lengthened period of latent stimulation manifested by the ganglia under the influence of light .
To answer this question , I first allowed a continuous flood of light to fall on the Medusid , and then noted the time at which the responsive spasm first began .
This time , as already stated , was slightly more than one second .
I next threw in single flashes of light of measured duration , and found that , unless the flash was of slightly more than one second 's duration , no response was given .
That is to say , the minimal duration of a flash required to produce a responsive spasm was just the same as the time during which a continuous flood of light required to operate in order to produce a similar spasm .
From this , therefore , I conclude that the enormously long period of latent excitation in the case of luminous stimuli is not , properly speaking , a period of latent excitation at all , but that it represents the time during which a certain summation of stimulating influence is taking place in the ganglia , which requires somewhat more than a second to accumulate , and which then causes the ganglia to originate an abnormally powerful discharge * .
Responses to luminous stimulation occur in all cases equally well whether the light employed be direct sunlight , diffused daylight , light * This summation of stimulating influence in central nervous matter ( electrical stimuli employed ) has recently been described by Dr. Sterling , in the case of reflex action in the frog.\#151 ; [ Jan. 10 , 1877# ] 1877 .
] Locomotor System of Medusa .
471 reflected from a mirror inclined at the polarizing angle , or any of the separate luminous rays of the spectrum .
On the other hand , neither the non-luminous rays beyond the red , nor those beyond the violet , appear to exert the smallest degree of stimulating influence .
S 5 .
Electrical stimulation .
( A ) Latent period , and Characters of the Contractions.\#151 ; The period of latent stimulation in the case of is much longer than it is in the case of Sarsia .
I have determined it with accuracy in the former case , and find it to be greatly modified by various conditions .
To take , therefore , the simplest case first , suppose that the paralyzed Aurelia has been left quiet for several minutes in water at 45 ' , and that it is then stimulated by means of a single induction-shock : the responsive contraction will be comparatively feeble , with a very long period of latency , viz. ^of a second .
If another shock of the same intensity be thrown in as soon as the tissue has relaxed , a somewhat stronger contraction , with a somewhat shorter latent period , will be the result .
If the process is again repeated , the response will be still more powerful , with a still shorter period of latency ; and so on for perhaps eight or ten stages , when the maximum force of contraction of which the tissue is capable will have been attained , while the period of latency will have been.reduced to its minimum\#151 ; viz. f of a second , or , in some cases , slightly less .
The first of these effects is identical with that which has already been described by Dr. Bowditch as occurring , under similar circumstances , in the case of the heart-apex .
There are , however , one or two points of difference as regards this summation of stimuli in the case of the heart and in that of the Meduste ; for in the latter , after a " staircase " has been built up by means of a series of stimuli , if a pause of not less than one minute be allowed to elapse and the stimulation be then again commenced , I find that the first step is only of the same height as the first step of a standard staircase .
The tissue has , as it were , completely forgotten the occurrence of the previous series of stimuli .
Now Dr. Bow-ditch has found , in the case of the heart , that an interval of five minute must be allowed to intervene between two series of stimuli before the effect of the first on the second series is thus wholly abolished , or , in the words of the metaphor just employed , the memory of the cardiac tissue is about five times as long as that of the medusoid tissue .
But in the case of exhausted medusoid tissue the difference may be even greater than this ; for in this case I have observed all memory to fade in the course of half a minute .
Again , the medusoid tissue is more tolerant than is the cardiac tissue of rapidity in the succession of the stimuli ; for while Dr. Bowditch found that the maximum staircase effect could be produced in the latter by throwing in stimuli at about 6-second intervals , I find in the case of the former that the shorter the intervals between the successive shocks , the greater is the staircase effect .
And in this connexion I may also state that a staircase has more steps in it if caused by a weak than if caused by a strong current , and that if the Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ Jan. 11 , strength of the current be suddenly increased after the rrm-n'mnm level of a staircase has been attained by a feeble current , this level admits of being slightly raised .
Lastly , I find in Aurelia that the staircase action is so pronounced that a stimulus which at the bottom of a staircase is of less than minimal intensity , is able at the top of a staircase to give rise to a contraction of very nearly maximum intensity .
In such cases no response is given to the first three or four stimuli .
With regard to this interesting staircase action , two questions naturally present themselves .
In the first place , we are anxious to know whether the arousing effect , which is so conspicuous in a staircase series , is due to the occurrence of the former stimulations or to that of the former contractions ; and , in the next place , we should like to know whether , during the natural rhythm of the tissue , each contraction exerts a beneficial influence on its successor , analogous to that which may be so certainly shown to occur in the case of contractions due to artificial stimuli .
As regards the first of these questions , it is evident that the fact of invisible steps occurring at the bottom of a staircase ( as just described at the close of the last paragraph ) proves that the staircase effect , at any rate at its commencement , depends on the process of stimulation as distinguished from that of contraction ; for , as in this case the process of contraction does not occur at all , it clearly cannot have any part in the production of the effect .
Nevertheless , that the process of contraction does assist in producing the visible steps of the staircase , is perhaps suggested by Ihe result of the following experiment .
Having built up a staircase in the ordinary way , I suddenly transferred the electrodes to the opposite side of the disk from that on which they rested while constructing the staircase .
On now throwing in another shock at this part of the contractile tissue , so remote from the part previously irritated , the response corresponded in all respects with the one previously given , i. e. it was a maximum response .
This fact conclusively proves that the staircase effect is a general one , pervading the whole mass of the contractile tissue , and not confined to the immediate seat of irritation* .
The second of the above questions was answered by cutting an Aurelia into a spiral strip of small width and great length , and removing all the lithocysts save one .
It was then observed that after the occurrence of a natural pause of sufficient duration , the first discharge only penetrated a short way through the strip , the next a little further , the next further still , and so on , till finally the contractile waves passed from end to end .
On now removing the ganglion and stimulating with successive induc* Since this paper was sent in , Dr. Burdon-Sanderson has published some further and highly interesting observations on Dioncea ( see-latest issue of the Proceedings of the Royal Society ) .
His results , as regards summation of stimuli and several other points , are strikingly similar to my own ; but as I was not acquainted with them while writing the text , I can only allude to them in this footnote.\#151 ; [ Jan. 10 , 1877 .
] 1877 .
] Locomotor System of Medusae .
tion-shocks , the same progressive penetration was observed as that which had previously taken place with the ganglionic stimulation .
From these and other experiments ( particularly those in which natural and artificial stimuli were allowed to alternate in the same staircase ) there can be no doubt that during the natural rhythm of the Medusae every contraction exerts a beneficial influence on its successor , which is the same , both in kind and degree , as that which is exerted by a contraction due to an artificial stimulus .
Beturning now to the period of latent stimulation in Aurelia we have seen how profoundly this period is modified by the summation of stimuli .
" We have next to consider the other causes which modify this period .
Of these causes the first which claims our attention is exhaustion ; for , as it is evident that the effect of exhaustion on the latent period must be in direct antagonism with that of the summation of stimuli , it becomes interesting to observe what will be the total effect on the latent period when these antagonistic influences are both present together .
Now tracings show that when this is the case the effect of exhaustion eventually overcomes that of summation , and , further , that the supremacy of the former over the latter shows itself in lengthening the period of latent stimulation before it shows itself in diminishing the amplitude of the contraction .
With regard to the effects of temperature on this latent period , the following table , setting forth the results of one among several experiments , explains itself:\#151 ; Temperature of water ( Fahr. ) .
Period of latent stimulation .
sec. 70 \#163 ; 50 5 35 f 20 S In the case of each observation'several shocks were administered before the latent period was taken , in order to decrease this period to its minimum by the staircase action .
When this is not done , the latent period at 20 ' may be as long as 1| sec. ; but soon after this irritability disappears .
Moreover , by cold the duration of the contractions is enormously prolonged .
( B ) Tetanus.\#151 ; When Aurelia aurita , whether or not paralyzed , is submitted to tolerably strong faradaic stimulation , more or less well pronounced tenanus is the result .
That this tetanus is due to summation may be very prettily shown by the following experiment:\#151 ; An Aurelia is cut into a spiral strip , and all its lithocysts are removed .
Single induction-shocks are then thrown in at one end of the strip\#151 ; every shock , of course , giving rise to a contractile wave .
If these shocks are thrown in at a somewhat fast rate , two contractile waves may be made at the same time to course , one behind the other , along the spiral strip ; but if the shocks Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ Jan. 11 are thrown in at a still faster rate , so as to diminish the distance between any two successive waves , a point soon comes at which every wave overtakes its predecessor , and , if several waves be thus made to coalesce , the whole strip becomes thrown into a state of persistent spasm .
In such experiments it is interesting to observe that , no matter how long the strip may be , or how complicated the time-relations between the successive stimuli are made , whatever disturbances are set up at one end of the strip are faithfully transmitted to the other .
This of course shows that the rate of transmission is so identical in the case of all the stimuli originated , that the sum of the effects of any series of stimuli is delivered at the distal end of the strip , with all its constituent parts as distinct from one another as they were at starting from the proximal end of the strip .
( C ) Artificial rhythm.\#151 ; When the swimming-organ of Aurelia has been paralyzed by removal of its lithocysts , and is then subjected to faradaic stimulation of minimal intensity , the response it gives is not tetanic , but strictly rhythmic .
The rate of the rhythm varies in different specimens , but usually corresponds with that of rapid swimming .
The artificial rhythm may be obtained with a portion of any size of irritable tissue , and whether a small or a large piece of the latter be included between the electrodes .
Progressively intensifying the strength of the faradizing current ] has the effect of progressively increasing the rate of the artificial rhythm up to the point at which the rhythm begins to pass into tetanus due to summation of the successive contractions .
But between the slowest rhythm obtainable by minimal stimulation , and the most rapid rhythm obtainable before the appearance of tetanus , there are numerous degrees of rate to be observed .
The persistency of any given rate of rhythm under the same strength of current is wonderfully great ; for it generally requires more than an hour of continuous faradization before the rhythm begins to become irregular , owing to incipient exhaustion .
At first only one systole is omitted at long intervals ; but afterwards these omissions become frequent and all the contractions irregular .
Finally the contractions cease altogether ; but a prolonged rest of half an hour or an hour restores the irritability .
The hypothesis by which I explain this artificial rhythm ( a rhythm which in most cases is quite as regular as that of a heart ) is as follows .
Every time the tissue contracts it must , as a consequence , suffer a certain degree of exhaustion , and therefore must become slightly less sensitive to stimulation than it was before .
After a time , however , the exhaustion will pass away , and the original degree of sensitiveness will thereupon return .
Now the intensity of the faradaic stimulation , which is alone capable of producing rhythmic response , is either minimal or but slightly more than minimal in relation to the sensitiveness of the 1877 .
] Locomotor System of Medusa .
475 tissues when fresh : consequently , when the degree of this sensitiveness is somewhat lowered by temporary exhaustion , the intensity of the stimulation becomes somewhat less than minimal in relation to this lower degree of sensitiveness .
The tissue , therefore , fails to perceive the presence of the stimulus , and consequently fails to respond .
But so soon as the exhaustion is completely recovered from , so soon will the tissue again perceive the presence of the stimulation ; it will therefore again respond , again become temporarily exhausted , again fail to perceive the presence of the stimulation , and therefore again become temporarily quiescent .
Now it is obvious that if this process occurs once , it may occur an indefinite number of times ; and as the conditions of nutrition , as well as those of stimulation , remain constant , it is manifest that the responses may thus become periodic .
In order to test this hypothesis , I made the following experiments .
Having first noted the rate of the rhythm under faradaic stimulation of minimal intensity , without shifting the electrodes or altering the strength of the current , I discarded the faradaic stimulation , and substituted for it single induction-shocks thrown in with a key .
I found , as I had hoped , that the maximum number of these single shocks which I could thus throw in in a given time , so as to procure a response to every shock , corresponded exactly with the number of contractions which the tissue had previously given during a similar interval of time when under the influence of the faradaic current of similar intensity .
For instance , to take a specific case , it was found that under the faradaic current the rate of the rhythm was one in two seconds .
By now throwing in single shocks of the same intensity , it was found that the quickest rate at which these could be thrown in , so as to procure a response to every shock , was one in two seconds .
If thrown in at a slightly quicker rate , every now and then , at regular intervals , one of the shocks would fail to elicit a response .
The length of these intervals , of course , depended on the rate at which the successive shocks were thrown in ; so that , for instance , if they were thrown in at the rate of one a second , the tissue would only , but always , respond to every alternate shock .
The following , and somewhat similar , experiment is still more conclusive .
As already stated , the rate of the artificial rhythm under faradaic stimulation varies with the strength of the faradaic current .
Well , by choosing at random any strength of faradaic stimulation between the limits where rhythmic response occurred , and by noting the rate of the rhythm under that strength , I was generally able to predict the precise number of single induction-shocks I could afterwards afford to throw in with the same strength of current so as to procure a response to every shock\#151 ; this number , of course , corresponding exactly with the rate of the rhythm previously manifested under the faradaic stimulation .
Other experiments , which do not admit of being briefly detailed , have likewise confirmed the above hypothesisso I think the latter may be Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ Jan. 11 , considered almost as demonstrated .
Upon this hypothesis , therefore , I have constructed a theory concerning the rhythmic action of organic tissues in general .
The details of this theory cannot be rendered in the present abstract ; but in its main outlines it is very simple , viz. that all such rhythmic action is due to the alternate process of exhaustion and recovery of contractile tissues , which has just been explained .
Therefore the particular case of rhythmic action of ganglionated tissues is supposed by this theory to be due , not to any special resistance mechanism on the part of the ganglionic tissues , but to the primary qualities of the contractile tissues .
In other words , the function of the ganglia is supposed to be merely that of supplying a constant stimulation , the rhythm being supposed due to the same causes as is the artificial rhythm of Aurelia aurita .
From this it will be seen that the essential point of difference between the current theory of rhythm as due to ganglia and the theory now proposed consists in this\#151 ; that whereas both theories suppose the accumulation of energy by ganglia to be a continuous process , the resistance theory supposes the discharge of this accumulated energy to be intermittent , while the exhaustion theory supposes it to be constant .
According to the former theory , therefore , the rhythm results because the stimulation is periodic ; according to .
the latter theory , the rhythm results because the alternate process of exhaustion and recovery , or the fall and rise of excitability , is periodic .
" Without here waiting to discuss the a priori merits of these rival theories , I will proceed at once to mention some further experiments which were designed to test the new theory , and which have so far confirmed it as to show that the causes which modify the natural rhythm of Aurelia likewise modify , in the same ways and degrees , the artificial rhythm .
( ?
) Other modes of constant stimulation besides that supplied by faradaic electricity likewise cause rhythmic action on the part of the deganglio-nated tissues of Medusae .
As stated in my former paper , the voltaic current causes this action* ; and , as stated in an earlier part of this abstract , dilute chemical stimuli , and even mechanical irritation , tend to produce the same effect .
Again , the remarkably sustained rhythmic motion which is manifested by the paralyzed bells of Sarsia in acidulated water , which last year appeared so anomalous , is clearly to be referred to the same category .
( ?
) As regards the effect of temperature on the rate of the artificial rhythm , it is only necessary to state the following details .
With each increment of temperature the rate of the artificial rhythm increases suddenly , just as it does in the case of the natural rhythm .
Moreover , there seems to be a sort of rough correspondence between the amount of influence that any given degree of temperature exerts on the rate of the natural and of the * Thus far the results are strikingly similar to those obtained by Dr. Foster in the case of the apex of the heart .
1877 .
] Locomotor System of Medusa .
artificial rhythm respectively .
Further , it will be remembered that in warm water the natural rhythm , besides being quicker , is not so regular as it is in cold water : thus also it is with the artificial rhythm .
Lastly , water below 20 ' or above 85 ' suspends the natural rhythm ; and the artificial rhythm is suspended at about the same degrees .
( c ) Oxygen accelerates , while carbonic acid retards and eventually suspends the artificial rhythm , in just the same way as these gases act on the natural rhythm .
( d)-When the marginal ganglia of are removed , the manubrium shortly afterwards relaxes to five or six times its normal length .
There can be no doubt that this effect is due to the muscular fibres of the manubrium having been previously kept in a state of tonic contraction by means of a continuous ganglionic discharge from the margin .
Now physiologists are unanimous in regarding muscular tonus as a kind of gentle tetanus due to a persistent ganglionic stimulation , and against this opinion nothing can be said .
But , in accordance with the accepted theory of ganglionic action , physiologists further suppose that the only reason why some muscles are thrown into a state of tonus by ganglionic stimulation , while other muscles are thrown into a state of rhythmic action by the same means , is because the resistance to the passage of the stimulation from the ganglion to the muscle is less in the former than in the latter case .
On the other hand , the new theory of ganglionic action explains the difference by supposing a different degree of irritability on the part of the muscles in the two cases ; for it will be remembered that in my experiments on paralyzed , if the continuous stimulation were of somewhat more than minimal intensity , tetanus was the result , while if such stimulation were but of minimal intensity , the result was rhythmic action .
Now I find in the case of Sarsia that the muscular tissue of the manubrium is more excitable than the muscular tissue of the bell ; so that , for this and other reasons , the facts here accord more closely with the exhaustion than with the resistance theory of ganglionic action .
But , in conclusion , I should like to say that as yet I regard the former theory as of a merely provisional character , and that I have published it thus prematurely in order that if , as my experiments strongly suggest , it is the true theory of rhythm , other physiologists may be able to test it on rhythmically contracting tissues in general .
IV .
Section .
S 1 .
( A ) Reflex action.\#151 ; The occurrence of reflex action in the Medusas is of a very marked and unmistakable character .
For instance , if the manubrium of Sarsia or of Aurelia be irritated , the swimming-organ responds to the irritation by giving one or more contractions ; if the marginal ganglia be now removed , the swimming-organ no longer responds even to the most violent irritation of the manubrium .
Again , in Aurelia , if only one lithocyst be left in situ , and if , during a pause in the Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ Jari .
11 , activity of the latter , any part of the irritable surface of the swimming-organ be very gently touched , the resulting contractile wave does not start from the immediate seat of irritation , but from the ganglion which still remains in situ .
( B ) Nervous connexions in Sarsia.\#151 ; When one of the four tentacles of Sarsia is very gently irritated , it alone contracts .
If the irritation be slightly stronger , all the four tentacles , and likewise the manubrium , contract .
If one of the four tentacles be irritated still more strongly , the bell responds with one or more contractions .
In the latter case , if the specimen operated on be non-vigorous or partly anaesthesiated , it may be observed that a short interval elapses between the response of the tentacles and that of the bell .
Lastly , the manubrium is much more sensitive to a stimulus applied to a tentacle , or to one of the marginal bodies , than it is to a stimulus applied at any other part of the bell .
These facts clearly point to the inference that nervous connexions unite the tentacles with one another and also with the manubrium .
This inference agrees with the histological observations of Haeckel on Oery-onia , and with those of Schultz on S , as well as with the results of my own explorations by stimuli already published .
But , to place the matter beyond doubt , I tried the effect of introducing a minute radial cut between each pair of adjacent marginal bodies .
This operation , as a rule , completely destroyed the physiological connexions between the tentacles .
But between the tentacles and the manubrium no such definite nervous tracts can be demonstrated by section\#151 ; that is to say , severance of all the four nutrient tubes , in addition to the marginal incisions just mentioned , has no effect in destroying the physiological connexions between the tentacles and manubrium .
The nervous tracts in this case , therefore , appear to be more or less diffused in the form of t a plexus over the surface of the bell ; and that this is the case is further indicated by explorations with graduated stimuli : for during such explorations it may very frequently be observed that the manubrium is more sensitive than the bell to stimuli applied to the latter ; and in such cases there is evidence of the manubrium being more sensitive to irritation of certain tracts of bell-tissue than to that of other tracts .
These excitable tracts , however , are not constant as to their position in different individuals .
( C ) Character of the Excitable Tissues of Sarsia.\#151 ; In my former paper I employed the term " physiological continuity " to designate such a condition on the part of contractile tissues as admits of an uninterrupted passage along their substance of what I called " contractile waves .
" I must now introduce another term , viz. " physiological harmony , " by which I mean such a condition of contractile tissues as admits of one part responding to stimuli applied at another part , whether or not contractile waves are able to pass along the intervening parts .
It will be observed that the distinction between these terms has reference to the 1877 .
] Locomotor System of Medusa .
479 most fundamental quality wherein the function of nerve is distinguished from that of muscle\#151 ; viz. the power of setting up responsive contractions at a distance from the seat of irritation .
In my former paper I described a number of experiments in section , which were devised in order to test the tolerance towards section of physiological continuity : similar experiments , having reference to the tolerance towards section of physiological harmony , are described in the present paper .
The experiments just detailed in the foregoing paragraphs were really experiments of this kind ; but such experiments derive a special interest when conducted on the general contractile sheet of swimming-organs .
They do so , because it will be remembered that the most interesting questions with which my previous paper was concerned were , first as to the presence of a rudimentary nerve-plexus , and next as to the extent in which , if present , it was differentiated from the muscular element .
Now , as stated in my former paper , the contractile tissues of Sarsia will endure very severe forms of section without suffering loss of their physiological continuity ; but I find that , as a rule , their tolerance is not nearly so great as regards maintenance of their physiological harmony ; for in general , though not invariably , the manubrium fails to respond to a stimulus applied to the bell if a cut of a millimetre or two in length intervenes between the base of the manubrium and the seat of irritation .
S 2 .
Character of the Excitable Tissues of Aurelia.\#151 ; Widely different is the case of Aurelia .
As already stated , when a portion of the swimming-organ of this animal is very gently irritated , a contractile wave does not start from the point of irritation ; but the passage of a stimulus-wave from that point is proved by the invariable discharge of a ganglion situated at a distance from the latter .
It must now be added that the passage of the stimulus-wave admits , in many cases , of being actually seen ; for it is a peculiarity of the innumerable tentacles which fringe the margin of Aurelia , that they are more irritable than the neuro-mus-cular sheet of the swimming-organ .
Consequently a stimulus which is too gentle to cause the latter to respond even when applied directly to its own substance , nevertheless very often causes a response on the part of the former .
When this happens , the tentacles all the way along the margin contract in succession , while the swimming-organ remains perfectly motionless .
When this tentacular wave reaches a ganglion , it causes the latter to discharge ( after \#166 ; S sec. or more for the latent period ) , and so to give rise to a general contraction of the neuro-muscular sheet .
This most beautiful expression o\#163 ; the passage of a wave of stimulation does not occur in all , or even in most , specimens of Aurelia ; and even in those specimens where it does occur , it may be more readily started by stimulating some tracts of the neuro-muscular sheet than by stimulating other tracts , although there is no constancy as to the position of these tracts in different individuals .
Now the severity of section which is required to cause blocking of these VOL. XXV .
2 M Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ Jan. 11 , tentacular wares varies in different cases ; but very often the tolerance of tentacular waves towards section is quite as remarkable as is that of contractile waves described in my former paper .
Or , adopting our previous terminology , section proves that in Aurelia aurita physiological harmony is as difficult to destroy as is physiological continuity .
And this fact I regard as the most noteworthy of all the facts to which the present investigation has led\#151 ; if , indeed , it is not the most startling and significant that has yet been brought to light in the whole range of Invertebrate physiology .
That the fact before us cannot be explained by supposing , with Klei-nenberg , that the fimctions of nerve and muscle are blended in the same cells , would seem to be conclusively shown by the additional facts , that in some cases section blocks the stimulus-wave before it blocks the contractile wave , while in other cases the reverse is true .
The only other hypothesis open to us seems to be that of a rudimentary nervous plexus , the constituent elements of which must be supposed capable of vicarious action in almost any degree .
This , it will be remembered , was the hypothesis to which I inclined last year as an explanation of all the facts relating to the passage of contractile waves ; and the hypothesis is now greatly strengthened by the additional facts just stated with regard to the passage of stimulus-waves : for while the maintenance of physio-logical continuity is a function of muscle , the maintenance of physiological harmony is a function of nerve .
It therefore seems to me that at the stage the inquiry has now reached there is no conceivable alternative between accepting this hypothesis and abandoning the whole subject as inexplicable .
Moreover this hypothesis is supported by the fact , that explorations of the swimming-organ of Aurelia with graduated stimuli reveals the presence of excitable tracts pervading the tissues in all directions ; but I cannot here enter into particulars .
Lastly , it must be stated that we are led up to this hypothesis by degrees .
Sarsia is the most highly organized of the Medusae which I have examined ; and here I have found that the supposed plexus is so far differentiated , that vicarious action on the part of its constituent elements is usually possible in but a low degree .
On the other hand , Aurelia is the least highly organized species which I have examined ; and here the supposed plexus is so slightly differentiated , that vicarious action on the part of its constituent elements is possible in a very high degree .
Lastly , the discophorous species of naked-eyed Medusae stand midway between Sarsia and Aurelia in respect of the degree in which integration of their organs has proceeded ; and in them the vicarious action of the supposed nerve-plexus also occupies an intermediate position , as we shall see while considering an interesting series of facts to the discussion of which I will now pass .
S 3 .
Character of the Excitable Tissues of Tiaropsis indicans.\#151 ; Tiaropsis indicans is a bowl-shaped species pf naked-eyed Medusa , having a manu1877 .
] Locomotor System of Medusa .
brium of unusual proportional size .
I have given to this animal the specific name of ' ' indicans , " because of a highly interesting and important peculiarity of function that is manifested by its manubrium .
This function consists in the organ localizing , with the utmost precision , any point of irritation which is situated in the bell .
For instance , if any point in the irritable surface of the bell be pricked with a needle , the massive manubrium moves over towards that point , and applies its tapered extremity to the exact spot where the prick has been inflicted .
Now this apparent reflex action is independent of the only ganglia that can be shown to occur in the organism , \#151 ; i. e. the pointing action of the manubrium is not at all interfered with by removing the margin of the bell .
Accordingly I removed the manubrium at its base , and found that by now irritating any part of its own substance , the apex endeavoured to curve down towards the seat of irritation .
Similarly , if only a portion of the manubrium were removed , the pointing action of that portion resembled the pointing action of the entire organ , while the stump that remained in situ would continue to move over as far as it could towards any point of irritation situated in the bell .
Hence there can be no doubt that every part of the manubrium is independently endowed with the capacity of localizing a seat of irritation either in its own substance or in that of the bell .
And in this we have a very remarkable fact ; for the localizing function which is so very efficiently performed by the manubrium of this Medusa , and which if any thing resembling it occurred in the higher animals would certainly have definite ganglionic centres for its structural correlative , is here shared equally by every part of the exceedingly tenuous contractile tissue that forms the outer surface of the organ .
We have thus in this case a general diffusion of ganglionic function , which is coextensive with the contractile tissues of the organ .
The unerring precision with which the manubrium indicates a seat of irritation in the bell may be completely destroyed by introducing a short cut between the base of the manubrium and the seat of irritation in the bell .
The afferent connexions , therefore , on which this localizing function depends are thus shown to be exclusively , or almost exclusively , radial .
But although under these conditions the manubrium is no longer able to localize the seat of irritation , it nevertheless continues able to perceive , so to speak , that irritation is being applied somewhere \gt ; for every time the irritation is applied , the manubrium actively dodges about from one part of the bell to another , applying its extremity now at this place and now at that one , as if searching in vain for the offending body .
This fact shows that after physiological harmony of a higher order has been destroyed , physiological harmony of a lower order nevertheless persists ; or , to state the case in other words , the fact shows that after severance of the radial connexions between the bell and the manubrium by which the localizing function of the latter is rendered possible , other connexions between these organs remain which are in nowise 2m 2 482 Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ Jan. 11 , radial ; or , perhaps still more correctly , that the stimulus escapes from the severed to the unsevered radial connexions through the vicarious action of the latter .
I therefore next tested the degree in which these connexions might be cut without causing destruction of that physiological harmony of a lower order which it is their function to maintain .
I found that this degree varied considerably in different specimens , but that in no case did the physiological harmony continue after a spiral section had been carried more than once round the circumference of the nectocalyx .
In these experiments , moreover , I observed that the tracts occupied by the four radial tubes are tracts of comparatively high irritability as regards the manubrium ; for the certainty and vigour with which the random motions of the manubrium occur in response to irritation of the part of a nutrient tube contained in a spiral strip , contrast strongly with the uncertainty and feebleness with which these movements occur in response to irritation of any other part of such a strip .
Lastly , when a spiral section is carried only three fourths of the way round the nectocalyx , so as to leave one of the four radial tubes intact , I observed that , on irritating any part of the strip , the manubrium usually pointed to the single radial tube which still remained intact .
Now all these facts together , as well as others which cannot be detailed in this abstract , tend strongly in favour of the plexus theory\#151 ; the radial tubes being supposed here , as in the case of to coincide in their course with that of aggregations of nervous elements analogous to nerve-trunks * .
S 4 .
Character of the Excitable Tissues of Staurophora laciniata.\#151 ; In my former paper I described certain spasmodic movements which are performed by Staurophora laciniata .
The remarkable points concerning these movements are , that they never occur except in response to stimulation , and that , in this particular species at any rate , they usually occur only when either the margin of the nectocalyx or one of the four radial tubes are stimulated\#151 ; stimulation of the general contractile tissue being followed by an ordinary locomotor contraction .
Nevertheless stimulation of the general contractile tissue a couple of millimetres from the margin is followed by a local spasmodic contraction ; while if the stimulus be applied within a single millimetre of the margin , the effect is a general spasm .
Cutting the whole nectocalyx of Staurophora laciniata into a spiral strip does not in any degree prevent this spasmodic action ; for on irritating the marginal tissue at one end of the strip , a wave of spasmodic contraction passes along the entire strip .
Such a spasmodic wave has a much greater power of penetration than has an ordinary contractile wave ; for while the latter , in this species , may be very easily blocked by section , the former will continue to pass in spite of the severest forms of section which it is possible to make .
Now it * The plexus theory does not suppose any thing resembling nerve-fibres to be present , but merely tracts of functionally differentiated tissue .
1877- ] Locomotor System of Medusa .
483 is a remarkable thing that the contractile tissues , although themselves incapable of originating a spasm in response to irritation , are nevertheless so wonderfully capable of conducting a spasm when this has been originated by irritation of the slender tissue tracts above named .
It is as though every fibre or cell of the general contractile tissues is able to liberate energy in either of two very different ways ; and whenever one part of the general mass is made to liberate its energy in one of these two ways , all the other parts of the mass do the same , and this no matter how far through the mass the liberating process may have to extend .
Or , to employ a somewhat far-fetched but convenient metaphor , we may compare the general contractile tissues of this Medusa to a mass of gun-cotton , which responds to ignition ( direct stimulation ) by burning with a quiet flame , but to detonation ( marginal stimulation ) with an explosion .
Now to say that it is the ganglionic element of the margin or radial tubes which here acts as the detonator , is not to explain the facts .
Doubtless it would be an interesting thing to know that a ganglion-cell may be able to originate two very different kinds of impulse according as it liberates its energy spontaneously or in answer to direct stimulation ; but this knowledge would merely serve to transfer the questions which now apply to the marginal and radial tube tissues in general to the ganglionic tissues in particular .
Again , the supposition of the ganglia acting as detonators when themselves directly irritated , would in nowise tend to explain why it is that the contractile tissues are capable of two such very different kinds of response .
In conclusion , I may state that when a tonic spasm is being slowly recovered from , one may often observe rhythmic locomotor contractions superimposed on the general spasmodic contraction .
Again , anaesthetics block spasmodic waves ; but not till after they have suspended spontaneity , and even destroyed muscular irritability as regards direct stimulation .
Up to this stage the certainty and vigour of the spasm is not perceptibly impaired ; but soon after this stage the intensity of the spasm begins to become less , and , later still , it assumes a local character .
It is important also to notice that at this stage of ansesthe-siation the effect of marginal irritation is very often that of producing a general locomotor contraction , and sometimes a series of two or three such .
During recovery in normal sea-water all these phases occur in reverse order .
S 5 .
Hate of transmission of Stimuli in Aurelia aurita .
( A ) Contractile waves.\#151 ; The rate at which contractile waves traverse spiral strips of Aurelia is variable .
It is largely determined by the length and width of the strip .
In the unmutilated animal the rate is from 18 to 20 inches per second in water at 40 ' to 45 ' .
Temperature exerts a wonderful influence on the rate , as the following example will show :\#151 ; Mr. Gr .
J. Romanes on [ Jan. 11 , Temperature of water .
Time occupied in passage of contractile waves through a spiral strip measuring 28 in .
in length and 1^ in .
in width .
o secs .
If Blocked Interdigitating cuts interposed in the path of the contractile waves slow the rate of the latter considerably ; and submitting the uncut contractile tissue to slight strains has the same effect .
So likewise with anaesthetics and a great variety of substances which have no anaesthetic property , such , for instance , as strychnine , fresh water , \amp ; c. Lastly , it is observable in a long contractile strip that , after a rest of a minute or more , the first wave that traverses it has a very slightly slower rate than its successor , provided the latter follows the former after not too great an interval of time .
This fact is probably connected with the summation of stimuli before explained .
( B ) Stimulus-waves.\#151 ; The rate of transmission of tentacular waves is only one half that of contractile waves , if the stimulation which starts the former is so weak as not also to start the latter .
But if the stimulus is strong enough to start both waves , the tentacular wave always keeps an inch or two in advance of the contractile wave .
S 1 .
Covered-eyed Medusa ?
.\#151 ; From the fact that in the covered-eyed Medusse the passage of a stimulus-wave is not more rapid than that of a contractile wave , we may be prepared to expect that in these animals the action of the locomotor ganglia is not , in any proper sense of the term , a coordinated action ; and this I find to be the case .
For , as previously stated , it may usually be observed that one or more of the lithocvsts are either temporarily or permanently prepotent over the others\#151 ; e. that contractile waves emanate from the prepotent lithocysts , and then spread rapidly over the swimming-organ .
Nevertheless in many cases such prepotency cannot , even with the greatest care , be observed but upon every contraction all parts of the swimming-organ seem to contract at the same instant .
I am inclined , however , to account for these cases of perfectly synchronous action by supposing that all , or most , of the ganglia require exactly the same time for their nutrition , and are of exactly equal potency in relation to the resistance ( or excitability ) of the surrounding contractile tissues , and that , therefore , the balance of forces being exactly equal in the case of all , or most , of the ganglia , their rhythm , though perfectly identical , is really independent .
V. Coordination .
1877 .
] Locomotor System of Medusae .
485 S 2 .
Nciked-eyed Medusae.\#151 ; With the naked-eyed Medusae the case is more definite ; for the mere fact of Sabeing able to follow a moving beam of light is in itself sufficient to prove coordination on the part of the locomotor centres * .
From my previous observations on the physiological harmony subsisting between the tentacles of Sarsia , I was led to expect that the coordination of the locomotor ganglia is probably effected by means of the same tissue tracts through which the interten-tacular harmony is effected\#151 ; viz. those situated in the margin of the bell .
Accordingly I introduced four short radial cuts , one midway between each pair of adjacent marginal bodies .
The coordination , however , was not perceptibly impaired .
I therefore continued the radial cuts , and found that when these reached to one half or two thirds of the way up the sides of the inner bell , or contractile sheet , the coordination became visibly affected , and this for the first time .
These experiments , however , did not satisfy me that the coordination was not chiefly , or exclusively , due to the marginal nerves ; since , even if the coordination were destroyed by the short radial cuts , it might still appear to remain intact for the following reasons .
Supposing the four quadrants to have their physiological harmony destroyed , and one of the quadrants to be slightly prepotent over the others , every time this quadrant of the margin discharged , the other quadrants would immediately do the same + ; and as the bell of Sarsia is so small , and the passage of contractile waves in it so rapid , the mere presence of physiological continuity might , in the case where only very short radial cuts were introduced , give rise to the false appearance of coordinated or harmonious action .
Accordingly I tried the converse experiment of leaving the margin intact , and making four radial incisions from the apex towards the base of the cone .
I found that these incisions might be carried quite down to the marginal canal without the synchronous action of the four quadrants being impaired .
This proves that the marginal connexions are alone sufficient to maintain the coordinated action of the ganglia , and thus tends to substantiate the above view concerning the results of the converse experiment .
This view is still further confirmed by the results of the same experiment in the case of the Discophorous species of naked-eyed Medusae .
In these species the passage of contractile waves is not nearly^ so rapid as it is in the case of Sarsia ; and so in them it may be quite easily observed that the four short radial cuts in the margin have the effect of destroying the physiological harmony of the marginal ganglia + .
Great * Removing the manubrium does not interfere with this steering action ; hut if any considerable portion of the margin be excised , the animal seems no longer able to find the beam of light .
t Allusion is here made to the fact that when a contractile wave reaches^ ganglion it causes the latter to discharge .
See " Croonian Lecture , " Phil. Trans. 1876 , p. oil .
+ This operation , although so slight , has a very remarkable effect in enfeebling the animal\#151 ; a vigorous specimen being usually reduced by it , after a short time , to absolute quiescence .
486 On the Locomotor System of Medusa .
[ Jan. 11 , nervous shock ( such as that caused by a sudden jar on an anvil or violent shaking in a bottle of sea-water ) often has the effect of destroying coordination for some time after spontaneity returns .
VI .
Poisons .
As this abstract is already too long , I will here only enumerate the poisons I have tried , without entering into the details of their action .
I may say , however , in general terms , that in almost every minute particular the effects of the various poisons I have hitherto tried are precisely identical in the case of the Medusae and in that of the higher animals .
In my paper the effects of each of the following poisons are treated at length , viz.\#151 ; chloroform , nitrite of amyl , caffein , strychnia , veratrium , digitalin , atropia , nicotin , alcohol , and cyanide of potassium .
The details of this part of the inquiry are rendered particularly valuable from the fact that , in the case of Sarsia , we have the means of testing the comparative influence of any poison on the central , peripheral , and muscular systems respectively ; but it is needless on the present occasion to occupy space with a description of the methods\#151 ; it being enough to say that the effects of the various poisons on these respective systems are uniformly such as occur in the case of the higher animals .
In one important particular , however , the actions of nearly all the above poisons on the Medusae differ from their actions on the higher animals ; for there is no poison in the above list which has the property , when applied to the Medusae , of destroying life till long after it has destroyed all the signs of irritability .
I think this anomaly is to be explained by two considerations .
First , the Medusae present to the action of the central nerve-poisons no nerve-centres which are of vital importance to the organism ; and , consequently , such poisons are here at liberty , so to speak , to exert their full influence on all the excitable tissues , without having the course of their action interrupted by premature death of the organism .
Second , the method of administering the above-mentioned poisons to the Medusae was very different from that which we employ when administering them to other animals ; for , in the case of the Medusae , the neuro-muscular tissue is spread out in the form of an exceedingly tenuous sheet , so that when the animal is soaking in the poisoned water , every portion of the excitable tissue is equally exposed to its influence .
And that the action of a poison is greatly modified by such a difference in the mode of its administration , has recently been proved by Professor Gamgee , who found that when a frog 's muscle was allowed to soak in a solution of vanadium \amp ; c. it lost its irritability , while this was not the case when the poison was administered by means of the circulation .
Fresh water acts as a deadly poison to the Medusae .
The nakedeyed species usually cease their movements the instant they touch the fresh water , and are killed by it , not , indeed , instantaneously as Agassiz supposed , but in the course of a few minutes .
The covered-eyed species 1877 .
] On some Phenomena connected with Vision .
do not succumb quite so rapidly .
The cause of this deadly influence exerted by fresh water has been found to depend on the absence of the mineral constituents of sea-water , and not , as Agassiz also supposed , on the difference of density between the former and the latter .
Chloride of sodium alone , dissolved in appropriate amount in fresh water , deprives the latter , to a great extent , of its deleterious influence ; but this is not the case with any other substance I have tried .
Brine acts as an anaesthetic , and , in respect of depriving the tentacles and manubrium of their muscular tonus , exerts an influence the opposite of that which is exerted by fresh water .
XX .
\#171 ; On some Phenomena connected with Vision .
" By B. Thompson Lowne , F.R.C.S. , Arris and Gale Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology at the Royal College of Surgeons , Lecturer on Physiology at the Middlesex Hospital Medical School .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received September 25 , 1876 .
1 .
On the Physiological Effect of Ruled Surfaces .
2 .
On the Time required to Produce or Obliterate a Retinal Image .
3 .
On the Relation of the foregoing Observations to Eechner 's law .
1 .
On the Physiological Effect of Ruled Surfaces .
Some months ago it occurred to me that an investigation of the relation of the shades produced by ruled surfaces ( as in engravings ) with those produced by variations in the intensity of illumination ( shadows ) would afford useful data in connexion with the physiological action of light upon the retina .
On examining a number of woodcuts and line-engravings I found that there are usually about nine different shades , which may be expressed by the following fractions , which represent the ratio of black to white upon the surface:\#151 ; 0 1 2 3 4 5678 8 ' 8 ' 8 ' 8 ' 8 ' 8 ' 8 ' 8 ' 8* Such engravings , when seen at such a distance that every line makes a distinct picture and can be separately perceived , exhibits a sufficiently gradual series of tints or shades passing regularly from white to black .
In this case I assume that the intensity of the sensations produced by a given surface is directly as the number of retinal elements stimulated , so long as the nature and intensity of the illumination remain constant .
I next endeavoured to determine the effect of variations in the intensity of the stimulus in the following manner :\#151 ; I repeated Lambert 's well-known experiment , in which two candles are placed at distances D and Dx from a screen , an opaque body being interposed so that each candle casts a shadow upon the screen , the light

