A paper was read , entitled , " On the development and extinction of regular doubly refracting structures in the crystalline lenses of animals after death .
" By Sir David Brewster , K.H. , L.L.D. , F.R.S. Since the year 1816 , when the author communicated to the Royal Society an account of the doubly refracting structures which exist in the crystalline lenses of fishes and other animals , he has examined a great variety of recent lenses with the view of ascertaining the origin of these structures , the order of their succession in different lenses , and the purpose which they answer in the animal economy .
He had discovered in the lenses of many fishes the alternation of portions , exerting , the one a positive , and the other a negative refractive action ; but in his subsequent investigations he met with the greatest discrepancy as to the regularity of their arrangement .
He found that in quadrupeds the central structure is positive ; while in fishes , where there are three structures , it is always negative ; but their po ?
sitive structure in the former case sometimes exists alone , with faint traces of a negative structure , and sometimes it is followed by another positive structure separated from the first by a black neutral circle , in which the double refraction disappears ; at other times various other combinations of these structures are presented .
Occa ?
sionally , in the dark neutral line.which separated two positive structures , he perceived a trace of an intervening structure , which seemed to be either about to disappear or about to be developed .
This con ?
jecture was satisfactorily verified by a series of observations which he made on the lenses of the sheep , the ox , and the horse , at different ages , and also on the same lens , during the spontaneous changes it undergoes when kept in distilled water .
The negative structure was in these experiments gradually developed at the space inter ?
vening between the portions of the lens which had possessed the positive structure ; and thus the same parts assumed in succession doubly refractive actions of opposite kinds .
The author intimates his intention of pointing out , in a separate paper , the conclusions deducible from these facts respecting the eause and cure of cataract .

