VI .
" On some Compounds of Ethylene .
" By H. L. BUFF .
Communicated by A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received June 10 , 1856 .
Among the hydrocarbons which are capable of replacing hydrogen , the radicals of the general formula C , H(n-+1 ) , i. e. the homologues of ethyl , are best examined .
There is another class of hydrocarbons which may be represented by the general formula Cn H(n-_1 ) .
The only well-known term of this series is the radical allyl , C6 H , , to which the attention of chemists has been especially called of late by the researches of Messrs. Hofmann and Cahours ol allylic alcohol .
These researches have established the most perfect parallelism between the two classes of radicals and their derivatives .
Both the radicals Cn 11(+ ) and C , , H(_ ) are monatomic , i.e. molecules capable of replacing 1 equiv. of hydrogen .
These two classes stand in the closest relation to each other , and it is by no means improbable that one class may pass over into the other , for instance , that the radical propyl C6 117 , or a propyl-compound , may be converted into allyl or an allyl-compound .
There exist a third series of hydrocarbons , which , again , both by composition and origin , are closely allied to the former two .
They are represented by the general formula C , H , ; and methylene , C2 12 , ethylene , C4114 , and propylene , C61l6 , are well-known terms belonging to this series .
These hydrocarbons are also radicals ; they differ , however , in their nature essentially from those of the former groups , inasmuch as they are biatomnic molecules , i. e. molecules capable of replacing 2 equivs. of hydrogen .
There exist parallel with these three series of radicals which form alcohols , three other groups of radicals , which in acids play exactly the same part that in the alcohols is assigned to the hydrocarbons .
These acid-forming radicals contain , in addition to carbon and hydrogen , oxygen and other elements belonging to the oxygen group .
They are closely connected with the radicals of the alcohols , and this close connexion is particularly well established between the first series of alcohol-forming radicals and the corresponding series of acidforming radicals .
Methyl , C2 H3 -2H + 20 = Formyl , C , HO0 Ethyl , 4H -2H + 20== Acetyl , C4 H1 02 Propyl , C6 1172H + 20= Propionyl , C6 H , 02 .
Formic , acetic and propionic acids are formed by the imperfect oxidation of methyl- , ethyland propyl-alcohol , and we may consider them to be simple substitution-products of these alcohols .
By means of the electric current we are able to produce ethyl , methyl and hydrogen from propionic , acetic and formic acids , and these acids we may reproduce again by the action of hydrate of potassa on the cyanogen compounds of hydrogen , methyl and ethyl .
Both series of radicals are chained together by these reactions , and we may view acetyl and propionyl as formyl , the hydrogen of which is replaced by methyl and ethyl .
Formyl ... ... . .
-C ( H ) 02 Acetyl ... ... ... .
C , ( C , H3 ) 0 , Propionyl ... ... . .
=C2 ( C4 H , ) 02 .
There is no doubt that the same relation exists between the hydrocarbons of the other series of radicals and the radicals of the corresponding acids , between allyl , C6 H1 , and the radical of acrylic acid , acryl C6 15 0 , , and between methylene , C2 H2 , ethylene , C4 14 , propylene , &amp;c. , and the radicals of the bibasic acids , which are homologues of succinic acid , Cs H11 O. The biatomic radicals are in general far less studied than the monatomic radicals ; still they occur in many compounds , and are met with in different departments of chemistry .
In addition to the terms already mentioned , we find them in the phenyl , benzyl , naphthyl and other series .
In the hope of adding some facts to the history of the polyatomic radicals , I have made some experiments with chloride of ethylene , C4 H4 C12 .
This compound , as well as the bromide of ethylene , refused to act in many instances ; in others it underwent the same change which is induced by the action on it of a solution of potassa in alcohol , splitting into the compound C4 H , C1 and hydrochloric acid .
On boiling chloride or bromide of ethylene with an alcoholic solution of sulphocyanide of potassium , a very definite reaction takes place .
The change being completed , the alcohol is separated by distillation , and the residue treated with a small quantity of cold water in order to remove chloride or bromide of potassium , which is produced , and the excess of sulphocyanide of potassium .
The more or less coloured residue is then dissolved in boiling alcohol , and the solution , after digestion for some time with animal charcoal and a few drops of hydrochloric acid , filtered whilst hot .
This solution deposits on cooling fine white , very brilliant and large rhombic plates of a hard and brittle substance * .
The analysis of this substance leads to the formula C4 H4 Cy S4 , , and its formation may be represented by the equation C4 H4 C12 + 2K Cy S2=2K Cl+ C 1-14 Cy2 S4 .
Sulphocyanide of ethylene fuses at 90 ?
C. and solidifies at 83 ? .
It is but slightly soluble in cold water , more so in boiling water , from which it crystallizes in groups of needles .
It is decomposed at a higher temperature , and evolves a highly pungent vapour , the odour of which very much resembles that of burnt onions .
On boiling a solution of sulphocyanide of ethylene in water , a very acrid odour is observed , which produces lacrymation and violent sneezing .
Sulphocyanide of ethylene has a sharp taste , causing a burning sensation in the throat .
Solution of ammonia decomposes sulphocyanide of ethylene even at the common temperature .
A flocculent substance separates , and the solution contains several compounds which I have been unable to separate .
At the temperature of boiling water sulphocyanide of ethylene mixes with aniline in every proportion ; no reaction , however , is perceptible .
But on boiling the mixture decomposition sets in , and a volatile substance is evolved which restores the colour of reddened litmus papero When boiled with solution of hydrate of baryta and oxide of lead or mercury , sulphocyanide of ethylene loses its sulphur ; the substance left behind possesses very little power of crystallizing .
In the case of oxide of mercury , besides sulphide of mercury and carbonate of barium , a difficultly soluble body containing mercury is formed .
At the temperature of boiling water , sulphocyanide of ethylene dissolves readily in very dilute nitric acid ; on cooling of the solution the substance is deposited unchanged .
On treating it with stronger nitric acid a decomposition takes place , and a crystalline acid is formed .
This acid is best produced by heating sulphocyanide of ethylene on the water-bath with dilute nitric acid as long as red led to the discovery of this substance .
Sonnenschein 's results , which are published in the Journ. fur Prakt .
Chem. June 1855 , came to our knowledge only after a summary of the results had been sent to the editor of the Annalen der Chem. und Pharm.-A .
W. H. t fumes of nitrous acid are evolved .
The residue is a strongly acid syrup , which becomes finally crystalline .
It is repeatedly dissolved in water and evaporated on the water-bath in order to expel the nitric acid .
Thus purified , the new acid is dissolved in boiling water , neutralized with pure carbonate of barium and separated from sulphate of barium .
On cooling , the barium-salt of the new acid crystallizes .
It is soluble in boiling water , less so in cold water , and almost insoluble in alcohol , by means of which it may be precipitated from its solution in water .
On examining the appearance and deportment of this salt , Dr. Hofmann , in whose laboratory I performed these experiments , at once recognized the identity of this compound with the barium-salt of disulphetholic acid which he and Mr. Buckton have lately discovered .
This view was fully confirmed by the analysis which I made .
The composition of the barium-salt , dried at 160 ?
, is represented by the formula C4 ( E,4 Ba , ) S , 01 .
The potassium salt of this acid is readily soluble in water ; it crystallizes easily , and is likewise precipitated by alcohol from its solution in water .
Dried at 100 ?
C. , it contains C4 ( H4 K2 ) S4 O120 At 160 ?
it suffers no decomposition ; when exposed to a higher temperature , however , it blackens and intumesces , empyreumnatic substances being evolved .
It is obvious that this bibasic acid stands in the same relation to ethylene as the monobasic ethylsulphurous acid to ethyl .
The origin of the two acids is perfectly analogous , the latter acid , according to Mr. Muspratt , being obtainable also by the action of nitric acid upon sulphocyanide of ethyl .
Sulphocyanide of ethyl , C4 H , Cy St , produces ethylsulphurous acid , C4 H5,1 , ,S2 06 , Sulphocyanide of ethylene , C4 H4 Cy2 S4 , produces ethylensulphurous acid , C4114 , 21 , 2S2 06 .
This reaction appears to throw some light upon the constitution of polybasic compounds .
The compounds of monatomic molecules of the hydrogen-group with elements or compound radicals of the oxygen-group , are all remarkable for the simplicity of their construetion .
The union of biatomic radicals of the hydrogen-group with molecules of the oxygen-group gives rise to combinations of a far more complicated character .
Whilst one molecule of water , H2 O2 , most conveniently may be considered as the type of many compounds of the former class , the corresponding compounds of biatomic radicals frequently correspond to a double molecule of water , 2112 02 .
Sulphocyanide of potassium may be viewed as water , in which the oxygen is replaced by sulphur , one of the hydrogen molecules by cyanogen , the other by potassium .
Water } O2 Sulphocyanide of potassium C } S2 In the production of sulphocyanide of ethylene two equivalents of chlorine in chloride of ethylene ( C4 114 C12 ) have to be eliminated by two equivalents of potassium .
Thus the very reaction of the two factors , chloride of ethylene ( C4 HI4 C12 ) , and two equivalents of sulphocyanide of potassium 2(K Cy S2 ) , joins 4 equivs. of sulphur and 2 equivs. of cyanogen with one molecule of ethylene .
This reaction may be expressed by the following equation , which will illustrate at once my view in regard of the constitution of this substance : CK 82 K+ C4II4C,12 = C414 I4+ 2K Cl. CyI 2 Cy 2S The acid produced by the action of nitric acid upon sulphocyanide of ethylene obviously belongs to the same type .
In this compound , which in the conception of this view may be called ethylene-sulphurous acid , the cyanogen is replaced by hydrogen , whilst the sulphur has been oxidized into the compound radical S2 06 , which in sulphurous acid we assume united with hydrogen .
Two Hl Two equivs. HS 06 EthyleneH l 06 moleH 2 of bisulphite K sulphuC J cules of H1 of potasH IS rous 441 water .
H 02 sium .
K2 06 acid .
S2 06 .
Since we find that the hydrogen-molecules in polybasic acids are replaceable by two or more molecules of different metals or radicals , witness tartrate of potassium and sodium , oxalovinate of potassium , the idea naturally suggests itself that the biatomic alcohol-forming radicals may be capable of uniting two molecules of different elements or compounds of the oxygen-group .
It is probable , for instance , that the ethionic acid , discovered by M. Magnus , may be such a compound , namely ethylene-sulphuro-sulphurous acid .
Disulphetholic C4 } S2 06 acid .
414 oH JS2 0 Ethionic }H6 acid .
4 14 -H 2 s8 The following Table contains some of the known ethylene and succinyl compounds compared with the corresponding derivatives of the ethyl and propionyl series .
Compounds of the Alcohol-forming Radicals .
Ethyl-series .
Ethyl C4 Hs Ethy ... .
C4 j ... .
Chloride of ethyl C4 H5 C1 Sulphide of ethyl C4 5 } S~ T1 Mercaptan ... .
S Sulphocyanide of C4 1H 1S ethyl .
Cy J2 Bisulphide of C4 15 2 ethyl .
C4 H5 S2 Ethylsulphurous C4a5 S0 acid .
H26 Sulphovinic acid C4115 }Sn SO Ethylene-series .
Ethylene ... ... ... .
C4 Ha Chloride of ethylene. .
C4 114 CI2 Sulphide of ethylene. .
C4 B4 Sa H }S Ethylene-mercaptan. .
C4 H1 H }82 Cy s Sulphocyanide of ethyC I len .
C4 H4 Cy }2 Bisulphide of ethylene C4 H1 84 Ethylene-sulphurous2 acid .
C4 14 H S2 06 11 S2 06 Ethylene-sulphuro-sul } 2 06 phurous acid .
14 04 8 ?
g 3s8 Compounds of the Acid-forming Radicals .
Propionyl-series .
Succinyl-series .
Chloride of proC ( C2 1O 021 Chloride of sucpionyl .
( 4 cinyl .
C4 ( C 1-14 ) 04 , C Propionyl-series .
Succinyl-series .
H}O Propionic acid. .
C , ( C4,1 , )0I }0 Succinic acid. .
C4(C4H4 ) } 0O H}02 Anhydrous proC2 ( C4I15)02 Anhydrous sucC( ) , pionic acid .
C ( C4H ) 2f cinic acid .
( C44)4,2 1H SH N &gt; Ha Propionylamide N1 H Succinamide .
C 4(C4H4)04 C2 ( C4 H)0 ) , N JH

