]\gt ; giving rise to red dendritic .
The author considers these differences to be analogous to the differences observed in the experiments of Oliver Lodge upon the photo-electric loss of first by Hertz .
VII .
Theol.ems on the Attraction of ; for oertain Laws of Force other the Square By E. J. ROUTH , F.R.S. Received May 11 , tract .
The objcct of the author is to find finite for potentials of an ellipsoidal shell , and of a solid ellipsoid the law of force is the inversc power of the distance , ' positive llegative .
It is in the , inuiug of the paper that the cases in which is an even er and an odd integer different treatment .
After discussing some special cases , come to the first al theorem } ) osing t is even and that the shcll is a thin homogeneous homoeoid , the potential is found to assume very different forms according as is greater or less than 3 , so that the .
of the inverse square is just on one side of the When the potential can be completely integrated , and an is found containing terms , and involving only diffel'elltiation of an integral rational function ions .
The general form at an internal point is When is the } ) otential takes the form of a le where .
This reduces to the form when , i.e. , when the law is the inverse Proceeding next to a thin heterogelleous omoeoid , the dellsity being where is a function of dimensions , different cases \mdash ; .
on the Attraction of 'llipsoids .
[ June 13 , are found to arise according as is greater or less than 3 and greater or less than .
If and the potential can be completely integrated .
A finiGe expression is given containing not more than terms , and involving differential coefficients of an integral rational function of .
For an internal point the general form is where and are two differential operators , and implies summation from to .
The potential is also found for an external point .
If or the potential contains a single integral which rednces to a known form we can put .
There are two standard expressions , one of lvhich is of the form , .
is a differential operator and a quadratic function of , which are explained in the paper .
Examples are given throughout to illustrate mode in which these general formulae are to be used , ) full references to all other writings on the same subject as far as they are known to the author .
Passing on to a solid ellipsoid the potentials at an internal point for both a homogelleous and a heterogeneous ellipsoid are discussed both when and and finite expressions are found , which reduce to known forms when .
When the point is and the strata are similar ellipsoids with any law of density , expressions for the potential are found for tho cases , 6 , , and 10 .
These are reduced depend on a single integral .
Except when , these can be completely integrated when the solid is homogeneous and in some other cases .
When is an odd teger , there is a division of cases ding as is or .
In the first of these cases , finite expressions for the potential of a thin homoeoid are found ( 1 ) when homogeneous , and ( 2 ) when heterogeneous .
There are corresponding expressions for a solid ellipsoid .
As explained in the text , these results differ in form rather than in substan from some already known , but they are treate in a different manner .
In the second case , when , the integrations become very long .
Finite expressions for the potential of a homogeneous homoeoid are , however , found ( 1 ) when the force varies as the inverse cube , and ( 2 ) 1895 .
] Presents .
217 when the force varies as the inverse power , and the formulae for the inverse cube being much simpler than for any greater Lastly , the potential of a special elliptic disc is which has the property that level surfaces are confocals , the force varying as any odd invel'se power eater than the square .
this list only those properties have beellmentiolled which the author believes to be new .
Presents , , 1895 .
Transactions .
Berk-eley:\mdash ; University of California .
University of California Studies .
Vol. I. No. 2 . .
Berkeley 1894 ; Bulletin of the Department of Geology .
Vol. I. Nos. 5\mdash ; 9 .
Berheley 1894-95 ; Report of Work of the icultural E meant Stations .
1892-94 .
1894 ; A Brief of the Lick Observatory , by E. S. Holden .
1895 ; [ and 7 other University Publications ] .
The Univelsity .
Berlin :GeselIschafi fur Erdkunde .
Zeitschrift .
Bd .
XXX .
No. 2 .
1895 .
The Society .
K. Preuss .
Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Sitzungsberichte .
1895 .
Nos. 1\mdash ; 25 . .
Berlin .
The Academy .
Bremen :Naturwissenschaftlicber Verein .
Abhandlungen .
Bd .
XIII .
Heft 2 .
Bd . .
Heft 1 . .
Bremen The Society .
Cambridge , Mass .
lfuse of Comparative Zoology .
Bulletin .
Vol. .
No. 12 . .
Cambridge , The lIuseum .
Cracow :Acad des Sciences .
Bulletin ] .
1895 . .
Craconie .
The Academy .
:\mdash ; Royal Society of Edinburgh .
Proceedings .
Vol. Pp .
305\mdash ; 384 . .
The Society .
Leipsic:\mdash ; Konigl .
Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Abhandlungen ( Math.-phys .
Class ) .
Bd .
XXII .
No. 1 .
Leipzig 1895 ; Berichte uber die ngen ( fath.-phys Class ) .
1895 .
No. 1 . .
Leipzig .
Society .
London :Anthropological Institute .
Journal .
Vol. XXIV .
No. 4 . .
London 1895 .
The Society .
British Astronomical Association .
Journal .
Vol. .
London 1895 ; Memoirs .
Vol. .
Part 6 .
1895 .
The tion .
Society .
Proceedings .
1895 .
Part rl'he Society .

