56 Mr. E. C. Baber on the Minute Structure [ Jan. 31 , directions , the paramount influence of this " facility of production " should still he apparent as the one cause which determines the general aspect of the system .
The causes 1 have mentioned would obviously determine an unequal growth of the system and preclude a perfectly symmetrical arrangement , at any given time of observation , of the cluster of hydrocarbons around the axial line .
How far this inequality is due to accidental causes , and how far to the operation of permanent causes acting in one direction , is impossible , from the slender data we possess , to say , but the chemist should ever be alive to the detection of permanent deviations , in the form of the actual system , from the form indicated by theory , for in such observations lie our best means of detecting the existence of other causes affecting its growth , besides that predominant cause which has been here discussed .
January 31 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Further Researches on the Minute Structure of the Thyroid Gland .
" Preliminary Communication .
By E. Cresswell Baber , M.B. Lond. Communicated by Dr. Klein , F.R.S. Received November 21 , 1877 .
In a previous communication to the Society* I have described some observations made on the minute anatomy of the thyroid gland of the dog .
Since then I have extended these observations , under the direction of Dr. Klein , to the glands of other vertebrate animals .
The chief results as yet arrived at will be very shortly described in the present communication , a full account of them being reserved to a future paper .
Lymphatics.\#151 ; In the thyroid gland of the dog I have described a dense rounded network of lymphatics traversing the gland in all directions , and consisting of lymphatic vessels , tubes , and spaces .
A similar system of lymphatics has been observed in the glands of other mammalia , as kitten , rabbit , man , and horse ; the extent of distribution , however , as shown by the injection , appears to vary in different * " Philosophical Transactions , " 1876 , yol .
clxvi , pt .
ii , p. 557 .
1878 .
] 'f the Thyroid .
animals .
In the tortoise a network of lymphatics can he injected , of which the smaller ramifications run between almost all individual vesicles .
The homogeneous or granular material which I have described in the lymphatics of the dog 's thyroid , ' has been observed in the same vessels in other thyroid glands , e.g. , in those of horse , man , sheep .
It occurs in both injected and uninjected glands .
The quantity varies much in different glands of the same animal , it being sometimes present in large quantities , and at other times appearing to be entirely absent .
These observations so far merely confirm the results arrived at in the dog .
In the thyroid gland of birds , however , a different arrangement of parts takes place .
On injecting the thyroid gland of a pigeon by the method of puncture with Berlin blue , it becomes swollen , and the injection is seen running in the jugular vein , with which the gland is in close apposition.* Examination of sections of the gland shows that the injection has entered vessels containing blood-corpuscles .
The same vessels become filled on injecting in like manner with nitrate-of-silver solution .
To ascertain whether by the puncture method the blood-vessels really become injected , another gland was injected with Berlin blue from the lower part of the carotid artery , the artery at the same time being secured above the gland .
In this case , in which the injection had entered the capillaries and veins , it was evident that these were the same system of vessels which were injected by the method of puncture .
I may , therefore , state that on repeated injections of the thyroid gland of the pigeon , both with Berlin blue solution and with nitrate of silver by the method of puncture , I have been unable to inject any system of lymphatic vessels , but have always found the injection in the blood-vessels of the gland .
In the thyroid gland of this bird the blood-vessels present the following characters : The capillaries , as usual , form a network running between the individual gland-vesicles , but in proportion to the size of the vesicles ( which in this gland are as a rule small ) , they do not appear so minute , nor to have such complicated ramifications as in the case of mammalia , but resemble more the distribution of the lymphatics in some of those animals .
The veins frequently surround , either partially or entirely , the arteries which they accompany .
Immediately under the capsule of the gland numerous large veins are seen , and in the fibrous capsule itself , I have noticed layers of blood-corpuscles , which appear to be contained in blood-vessels communicating with the veins of the interior .
Once or twice I have noticed in the large veins on the surface of the gland ( under the capsule ) , in addition to blood-corpuscles , and perhaps coloured injection , a greater or less quantity of a material of homogeneous aspect , presenting an appearance similar to the material seen * It will be remembered that on injecting the dog 's thyroid gland in a similar manner , the injection was seen emerging from the gland lymphatic vessels which ran to neighbouring lymphatic glands .
58 Mr. E. C. Baber on t Minute Structure [ Jan. 31 , in the vesicles , and also to that described above in the lymphatics of the thyroid gland of the dog and other mammalia .
In the thyroid gland of the roolc no system of lymphatics is injected by the method of puncture , but the blood-vessels , presenting an appearance very similar to those in the pigeon , become filled .
Since the publication of my researches on the thyroid gland of the dog , I have become acquainted with P. A. Boechat 's thesis on the structure of the thyroid glaad ( published in 1873 ) , in which he describes the lymphatics of this organ .
I regret that I was not previously aware of his researches , but it is satisfactory to find that the results of our independent observations on this subject are very similar .
Epithelial Cells.\#151 ; In the thyroid gland of several animals I have observed in the epithelial cells numerous very fine parallel striae , running in the direction of the long axis of the cell , from the summit ( or free extremity ) of the cell down towards its base .
I can sometimes trace this striation running apparently the whole length of the cell from apex to base ; at other times it is only visible for a greater or less distance near the summit of the cell .
I have observed it most clearly in the thyroid glands of the skate , tortoise , pigeon , and kitten .
Between the epithelial cells of the thyroid gland a reticulum may often be observed .
I have noticed it more especially in the tortoise , skate , kitten , \amp ; c. Recently Otto Zeiss * has described a reticulum between the epithelial cells of the thyroid gland .
Parenchyma.\#151 ; The large round cells described in my previous paper in the thyroid gland of the adult dog , and there named " parenchymatous cells , " I have since observed in dogs aged five and nine weeks respectively .
In the thyroid gland of the cat parenchymatous cells are present in considerable numbers , although not nearly so numerous as in the dog .
Parenchymatous cells are also seen in the thyroid of the rabbit .
In the thyroid gland of the pigeon large groups are frequently seen consisting of cells , which are larger than the adjacent epithelial cells , round or oval in shape , and provided each with a single spherical or oval-shaped nucleus .
They resemble very much the parenchymatous cells seen in the dog .
, Undeveloped Portions.\#151 ; In the thyroid gland of the adult dog bodies of considerable size are frequently seen , which differ entirely in structure from the rest of the gland .
They are rounded or flattened in shape , usually situate on the surface of the organ , and possess the following structure .
They consist of a solid mass of more or less cylindrical rows of cells , which are much convoluted and interlace in all directions .
Between them run capillary blood-vessels , and also probably some lymphatics .
These " cylinders " are composed of cells resembling epithelial cells , columnar or cubical in shape , those on the surface of the * " Mikroskopische Untersuchungen uber den Bau der Scbilddriise .
" Strassburg , 1878 .
] 'f the Thyroid Gland .
cylinder , next to the capillaries , being arranged at right angles to the long axis of those vessels .
Each cell is provided with a nucleus , usually oval in shape .
In very few , if in any , of these cylinders have I been able to detect any central canal .
In the dog I have always observed these " undeveloped portions " as distinct bodies , not continuous with the normal gland tissue , but separated from it by layers of connective tissue , and frequently lying in depressions on the surface of the gland .
They appear to be portions of gland , whose development has become arrested at an early stage , and there is no evidence to show that they undergo any further development subsequently .
In the kitten similar undeveloped portions are seen , but in this animal they may sometimes be observed to be continuous with the ordinary gland tissue .
In this case a formation of vesicles from the cylinders of cells appears to be taking place by the growth into them laterally of processes of connective tissue with blood vessels , and by their excavation into vesicles .
In the kitten the cylinders are less convoluted than in the dog , and throughout the gland the fully formed vesicles frequently appear grouped in rows , which have a more or less parallel arrangement .
Somewhat similar , but shorter , cylinders of cells are seen in the thyroid of the pigeon , scattered throughout the gland .
I may mention that in the thyroid glands of foetal pigs ( measuring about 2 j inches in length ) before the formation of vesicles has taken place , I have seen cylinders presenting an appearance similar to those above described .
In sections of the glands of young dogs ( aged about five weeks and three months respectively ) I have observed that the vesicles are very much branched , and present numerous hollow ramifications .
In the thyroid glands of numerous other dogs of different ages , I have with equal certainty ascertained that the vesicles presented very few , if any , of these hollow branches .
These much*branched vesicles are doubtless the hollow branched cavities ( tubes ) of Zeiss , which he obtains by floating them out from portions of the fresh gland of young animals .
In glands in which the vesicles present this appearance , the walls of the vesicles are frequently inflexed so as to form numerous projections into the interior , as already described by Verson and myself .
Zeiss has repeatedly endeavoured to inject these hollow-branched cavities by the method of puncture , but without success .
Neither have I , in all my injections , ever succeeded in filling any such structures , which must surely have been the case if the hollow-branched cavities were in communication with one another to any extent , for it seems almost impossible to suppose , as Zeiss does , that the contents of these cavities can prevent the injection from running into them , whilst we know that the viscid contents of the lymphatics have no such effect .
I am of opinion that these hollow branched cavities do not communicate with one another to any extent , and that , in the dog at least , they merely 60 Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Stratified Discharges .
[ Jan. 31 , form a stage in the growth of the gland .
In the mature state of the organ in this animal I consider that the vesicles , as usually supposed , consist of cavities more or less spherical in shape , which are not in communication with one another .
The points mentioned in this note , together with others connected with the subject , will be fully discussed in a future paper .
II .
" On Stratified Discharges .
V. Discharge from a Condenser of Large Capacity .
" By William Spottiswoode , M.A. , LL. D. , Treas .
and V.P.R.S. Received November 22 , 1877 . .
' The principal object of the following communication is to describe an instrumental arrangement which has proved very convenient for the production of steady striae .
The first attempt which was made nearly two years ago ( February , 1876 ) , consisted in charging a Leyden battery of nine large jars by means of an induction coil , and discharging it gradually through a vacuum tube .
This was effected by connecting One terminal of the tube with the outside of the battery , and presenting the other terminal , made pointed , to a knob connected with the inside , at suitable distances .
The following effects were then observed : ( 1 .
) When the interval between the terminal and the knob was considerably greater than striking distance , the appearance in the tube was cloudy and apparently unstratified , or showed only faint indications of stratification .
It was , in fact , very similar to that produced by attaching one terminal of the tube to one of an induction coil , and carrying the other to the earth .
( 2 .
) When the interval was within striking distance , the usual jar-discharge without stratification or dark space took place .
( 3 .
) When the interval was slightly greater than striking distance , but not so great as in the first case , a bright stratified discharge was observed .
The proper motion due to a decline in tension was shown by a revolving mirror , and by a careful but rapid alteration in the distance during discharge , the motion could be arrested or even reversed .
The duration of the whole , although long compared with a single flash from an ordinary coil , did not exceed half a second .
This experiment gave reason to hope that if a condenser of sufficient capacity were constructed , the discharge might be prolonged , and even varied , so as to allow an actual study of its various phases to be made .
The next attempt was made during last summer with some condensing plates , constructed for cable purposes , and kindly lent to me by Messrs. Latimer Clark , Muirhead , and Co. The results were in every way calculated to encourage further steps .
At the suggestion of Mr. De la Rue , and with the assistance of his

