460 Commander W. B. Pauli .
[ Feb. 17 It would appear as if the mechanical properties of a gas at ordinary pressures and up to extreme exhaustions ( setting aside the minute deviations from Boyle 's law , \amp ; c. ) , were completely defined by two con-stants , suppose the density at a given pressure and the coefficient of viscosity , but at the high exhaustions at which phenomena of " ultragas " begin to appear , specific differences came in , to include which an additional constant , or perhaps more than one , requires to be known .
II .
" Notes on the Earthquakes of July , 1880 , at Manila .
" By Commander W. B. Pauli , R.N. , Her Britannic Majesty 's Consul at Manila .
Received January 18 , 1881 .
The following " Notes " have been communicated from the Foreign Office , by direction of Earl , K.G. , I was unfortunately obliged to leave Manila last June on sick leave , and the news of the late disastrous earthquakes reached Europe shortly after my arrival .
My knowledge of the locality enabled me to realise the extent of the calamity even with the bare details given by the telegrams .
I have collected the fullest information obtainable at this distance , chiefly from local papers and letters from friends , but by far the most important data I have received are contained in the scientific observations sent me by Father Faura , the Director of the Municipal Observatory at Manila , who being a pupil of the late Father Secchi , of Rome , and himself taking keen interest in science , chiefly in relation to storms and earthquakes , is a particularly fit person for his present post .
The Manila Observatory is now furnished with seismographical instruments , by which the accompanying diagrams of the chief shocks were obtained .
These , with the translation of Father Faura 's observations on them , I trust may be of interest , especially as this is the first scientific account of earthquakes in the Philippine Islands , where they are so frequent and so violent .
To this account I have appended further information derived from other sources respecting the course and extent of the disturbances , but have purposely omitted the details of the personal experiences of individuals and the loss sustained in life and property , confining my remarks to such accounts as bear directly on the phenomena in a scientific point of view .
A short preliminary account of the volcanic systems of Luzon , the seat of the late earthquakes , may prove a useful introduction .
Don Jose Centeno y Garcia , Inspector-General of Mines to the j881 .
] Notes on the Earthquakes of ,1880 , at Manila .
461 Philippine Government , in a work called " Memoria Geologico Minera de los Islas Filipinas , " observes:\#151 ; " That the volcanic action in the Philippine Archipelago is not displayed in an arbitrary or irregular manner , but , on the contrary , is exercised by defined lines almost parallel to each other , whose direction maybe fixed as from N.N.W. to S.S.E. , thus showing two parallel systems , which to distinguish from each other we will call the system of Taal , and that of Mayon , being the names of the two volcanoes of the greatest and most frequent activity in the two systems .
" The first , viz. , the system of Taal , commences in the north of Luzon , and after traversing the greater part of the island , including in its course the active volcano of Taal , is lost in the sea of Mindoro , to reappear in other islands of the Archipelago .
The second system , " of Mayon , " is situated to the eastward of the first , and is represented by the magnificent active volcano of Mayon of 8,000 feet altitude , and although parallel to the first , does not extend farther to the north than the extinct volcano of Isero , in the province of South Camerines , in Luzon , but traverses the southern portion of the island , and includes the active volcano of Bulasan , at the extreme southern point of Luzon ; it appears again in other islands , especially in the large island of Mindanoa .
Senor Centeno observes that these two distinctly parallel lines in Luzon , with a distance of about 120 miles between them , after leaving that island , approach each other so as to be only 64 miles apart in Mindanoa , and in his opinion join each other in the southern group of the Mollucas .
The present earthquakes extended from Vigan , in the north , to Tayabas in the south , being in the line of the system of Taal , which volcano showed considerable and unusual activity during the disturbance .
The volcano of Mayon , on the contrary , is reported as being in its normal state , emitting no more than its usual amount of smoke , although the volcano of Bulusan ( in the system of Mayon , and far to the southward of that mountain ) , which seldom shows signs of activity , had recommenced to throw up smoke .
This would appear to corroborate Senor Centeno 's theory , that the two systems are distinct in Luzon , but join each other far to the southward ; and that the effects of the earthquakes on volcanoes was confined to the system of Taal on this occasion in Luzon , extending to the point where the two systems united in the south , and penetrating on its return to the north , along the system of Mayon , as far only as Bulusan , but not reaching so far north as Mayon .
The extent of these earthquakes is said to have been from Vigan to Tayabas , a distance of about 220 nautical miles in length , with an average width of about 75 miles .
No shocks are reported from the extreme north or south of Luzon .
Commander W. B. Pauli .
[ Feb. 17 , Summary of the Seismo metrical Observations taken at the Municipal Observatory of Manila , during the various earthquakes which took place from the \4\lt ; th to the 25th July , 1880 .
The observations commence by a description of the instruments employed to trace the figures representing the undulations ; Father Faura continues " The object of both apparatuses is first to discover the direction of the first horizontal undulation , which is obtained by " 2nd .
To ascertain the general direction of the horizontal undulations , and their amplitude by means of the fines which the same pendulum leaves in the powder .
3rd .
To obtain the greatest amplitude of the greatest vertical undulation by means of the vertical seismometer .
" 4th .
To obtain by a combination of the above results the magnitude and direction of the oblique undulations .
" From the indications of these two apparatuses the observations of the terrible phenomena which plunged Manila into the greatest affliction were deduced and given each day .
We do not place absolute reliance in them , because the apparatuses can only offer certainty in their indications in cases where the complications and violence of the present movements are absent ; but we believe they have a relative and not inconsiderable value , and that they give a sufficiently exact idea of the occurrence , for which we consider them very useful in a comparative point of view , particularly to those who have experienced the terrible " After these preliminary remarks , we will give the different observations collected each day , which will prove more intelligible by consulting the various figures traced by the pendulum , and these in their turn will prove a complement to those observations .
" In the months of April and May , commotions began to be felt in the northern provinces of Luzon ; the centre of the seismic oscillation , according to different indications received at this station , seemed to coincide with a volcano extinct for some time , and situated between Lepanto and Abra , in the central range of Luzon , in lat. 16 ' 22 ' H. and long .
127 ' E. of the Observatory of San Fernando .
" In the beginning these disturbances were weak and infrequent ; but in the month of June their intensity sensibly increased , extending to the north and south in a much larger -zone .
The direction never changed ; and if in some telegrams certain contradictions were observed , these appear to have been the effect of the haste with which the observations were taken , which can never be relied on where there are no special instruments nsed to mark a change in the direction of a seismic oscillation .
In the beginning of July shocks were also felt ; but by it .
phenomena .
1881 .
] Notes on the Earthquakes of July , 1880 , at Manila .
463 from the 5th to the 14th no notices of earthquakes in any part of the island were received in Manila .
" On the 14th , at 12 h. 33 m. p.m. , being threatened with a storm from the north-east , indicated by an extraordinary fall of the barometer , we experienced here the first shock , in which we observed that two centres of oscillation were combined ( see fig. No. 1 ) , one on the second quadrant , from whence the pendulum of the horizontal seismoFig .
1 .
meter began to oscillate ; and the other from the third , where the oscillation of this first movement terminated , and which was chiefly horizontal ; the amplitude of total oscillation reached 5 25 .
The horizontal pendulum inscribed a cross with arms almost at right angles , the first bearing from S.E. 10 ' E. to N.W. 10 ' W. ; the second from S.W. 5 ' W. to N.E. 5 ' E. " The first impulse was in the direction from south-east to north-west .
The amplitude of this oscillation described an arc of 5 ' 25 ' , and appeared to be formed by the first shock , because the pendulum almost at once oscillated in a direction almost perpendicular to the first .
The amplitude of this second oscillation was somewhat less than that from the first impulse .
" The index of the vertical seismometer departed 4 millims. from its position .
After this first movement , we experienced two more shocks in the space of an hour and a-half ; on the 15th and 16th there were no perceptible movements ; on the 17th , two slight shocks were felt .
" It was on the 18th , at 12 h. 40 m. p.m. , when the great earthquake of oscillation , trepidation , and what is commonly called rotatory movement , occurred simultaneously .
Its duration was 1 m. 10 s. " It is impossible to describe all the movements of the pendulum on account of their number and variety .
We shall therefore confine ourCommander W. B. Pauli .
[ Feb. 17 , selves to the principal directions with their amplitudes .
All the movements are , however , to be seen in fig. No. 2 .
Fig. 2 .
" It is to be noted that , from our point of view , only the great oscillation from east to west ( which was the most measured and free from violent shocks ) , indicates the true inclination of the buildings towards the west .
" 1 .
The greatest oscillation from E. 5 ' S. to W. 5 ' N. ; the amplitude of the greatest oscillation 22 ' , or by seismic wave motion 11 ' to east and 11 ' to west .
" 2 .
Greatest oscillation from south-west to north-east , true , amplitude 19 ' , but with the difference of more inclination towards the south-west , which reached to 10 ' lO ' , against 8 ' 50* only towards the north-east .
" 3rd .
Greatest oscillation from N. 4 ' W. to S. 4 ' E. , amplitude of this oscillation 16 ' , in which also is observed that the inclination is greater towards the south , being 9 ' south a*nd only 7 ' north , the impulse consequently appears to be from north to south .
" The index of the vertical seismometer departed 34 millims. from its position .
Erom the time of this earthquake until the 20th at three in the afternoon , at which time we experienced a very strong repetition , an uninterrupted series of small shocks were felt , which indicated that 1881 .
] Notes on the Earthquakes , 1880 , at Manila .
465 we continued to be under the influence of the phenomenon .
In this first repetition the oscillation and trepidation movements only were experienced , but with extraordinary violence .
The oscillation of the pendulum was directed from S.E. 15 ' E. to N.W. 15 ' W. The amplitude described an arc of 12 ' 30 ' , but with the following peculiarity , that this did not consist of a perfect oscillation , but of three semioscillations , which show plainly the violence of the shocks ( see in fig. 3 the lines marked with the letters aa ' , rr " ) .
The pendulum in Fig. 3 .
the first impulse from south-east to north-west reached the altitude indicated by the line aa ' ; on returning to its point of departure it received a new impulse which not only destroyed the velocity which it had acquired in its descent , but obliged it to ascend a second and third time almost to the same height it had attained by its first impulse .
" It is true that the inclination of the buildings was not equal to the deviation of the pendulum , but who is competent to understand the terrible convulsions which the former underwent during such repeated and violent shocks ?
The three above-mentioned convulsions , joined to the vertical undulation which reached 24 millims. , being taken into account , the dnly thing to be astonished at is , that many more buildings were not thrown down .
The pendulum continued oscillating during the whole of the evening from north-east to south-west .
466 Commander W. B. Pauli .
[ Feb. 17 , " At 10 b. 40 m. p.m. , the second , and very severe repetition took place , which , although of great violence , presented peculiarities distinct from the others ; in those preceding , it was observed that the strongest focus of seismic radiation was in the second quadrant ; in this latter it began , it is true , in the east , but with much less intensity than before .
and the focus observed in the first quadrant continued with the same and even greater violence ( see fig. 4 ) .
In this we perceive that the Fig. 4 .
1 Kpi ss oscillation from east to west , true , has an amplitude of 10 ' 5 ' to the east , and 5 ' to the west ; whereas , in the direction from north-east to south-west it comprises an arc of 17 ' : 9 ' to south-west , and 8 ' to north-east .
" The vertical seismometer marked 28 millims. Vibrations continued , but decreasing in frequency and above all in force .
" The pendulum , which had never been at rest since the 18th until 3 p.m. of the 21st , in three succeeding days had long intervals of .complete immobility .
On the 25th , at 4 h. 2 m. A.M. , another slight shock was felt ; this , although of small intensity , we have faithfully transmitted to paper , because , in our opinion , it is important to show the gradual change of focus of seismic radiation during the whole time .
The direction of the undulation was from E. 26 ' N. to W. 26 ' S. , and only reached a total amplitude of 3 ' 45 ' .
The movement of trepidation was inappreciable , as the index of the vertical pendulum departed only 0*7 millim. from its normal position .
1881 .
] Notes on the Earthquakes of July , 1880 , at Manila .
46T \#171 ; ^re will now recapitulate briefly what we understand by the figures .
" On the 14th , which is that represented in fig. 1 , we notice two foci of seismic radiation , the first situated in the second quadrant , where it began , and the second situated in the first quadrant , where-it terminated .
In the earthquakes of the 18th we also discover the same two foci ; but two others also appear which impelled the pendulum in every imaginable direction , as may be seen in fig. 2 .
\#171 ; Proceeding to that of 3 p.m. on the 20th , we find that the focus of the second quadrant acted with astounding violence , and the others disappeared ( fig. 3 ) .
We turn now to fig. 4 , which represents to us the violent repetition of 10 p.m. on the 20th , and we observe a great variation with regard to the foci of seismic radiation .
In it we see that the oscillations from east to west , and which correspond to the focus , which before had acted with so much violence , were gradual and of much less intensity .
On the contrary , that from north-east to-south-west showed a great degree 'of undulation from these points .
Fig. 5 .
" Finally , in fig. No. 5 , which represents the last important oscillation on the morning of the 25th , we only note the focus of seismic radiation of the first quadrant operating with very little intensity , the other foci having entirely disappeared .
We do not care at present to form deductions from the above observations , we have preferred to present them to general notice in order that scientific persons might form their own conclusions without being biased by our opinions .
" Note 1st .
Observe , that in speaking of the swing of seismic undulation from both sides of the centre of reference ( place of instrument ) , we do not mean to say that the buildings moved from one side to the other like the pendulum , because it is very clear that the latter was only moved in one of the semi-undulations by the effect of the 468 Commander W. B. Pauli .
[ Feb. 17 , impulse , or inclination , of the building , the other being the effect of the velocity acquired in the first semi-oscillation .
The object of alluding to the double motion on either side of the centre of reference was to give freedom to the opinion which some people held , that earth-waves are similar to waves of sound in the air ; while others aver that they are caused by the rising and sinking of the ground in localities more or less distant from the post of observation .
" Note 2nd .
A great number of lines will be observed in the figures which appear not to be connected with the rest ; we can only explain the fact as being caused by frequent vertical shocks , jerking the pendulum violently and causing it to leave one curve to follow another commenced by the new impulse .
" We can assure our readers that the curves as they are represented in the different figures were transferred from the lycopodium to the paper with the greatest fidelity .
" This ends Father Faura 's observations on the earthquakes , and in forwarding these he informs me that he will later on publish a more complete account .
He is also engaged in establishing stations for meteorological observation in various parts of Luzon\#151 ; which will be in telegraphic communication with Manila\#151 ; and thence with Hong Kong ; the chief object being to announce the advent of typhoons .
As these storms invariably travel from about east by south , or east-south-east to west by north , or west-north-west , the Philippine islands , especially Luzon , are well situated for the object of giving storm warnings to the coast of China .
No doubt these stations will also be supplied with instruments , and receive instructions to observe the direction and force of earth-waves .
If such stations had existed in July , the accounts would have been more complete and useful , and although reports from many places are recorded , they are in most cases unreliable and contradictory , and deal chiefly with the destruction caused to buildings , loss of life , and injury to persons .
The captain of the British steam-ship " Esmeralda , " then at anchor in the Bay , states that in the earthquake at 6 p.m. , on the 20th July , " the water bubbled and boiled up noisily all around the ship and the vessel tossed as if in a heavy gale ; " that the wreck of a ship ( which had been sunk for some years ) " was thrown right up out of the water and one of her iron masts was seen to give way .
" He describes the sensation on board ship as well as on shore as that " of being suddenly connected with a galvanic battery strongly charged , " and as being a " tremendous strain on the nerves .
" Accounts are also given of fissures in the ground in various places , from which sand and water were emitted , especially in the neighbourhood of the Laguna de Bay , where hot sulphur springs have always existed .
1881 .
] Notes on the Earthquakes of July , 1880 , at Manila .
469 I will now give a translation of a letter to a local paper from a resident near the spot , giving an account of the behaviour of the Volcano of Taal before and during the earthquakes of July .
This letter was written in consequence of exaggerated reports of great eruptions of that volcano , and professes to give a true relation of the facts .
" The crater of the Volcano of Taal ceased to send up smoke as usual on Monday , 12th July .
At nightfall on Wednesday the 14th , subterranean noises were heard , and a heavy swell was observed in the lake " ( the volcano is on an island in the Lake of Taal ) , " which ceased after the earthquake of the same night ; louder subterranean noises were heard during the earthquake .
" On Thursday the 15th , two columns of smoke continued to issue , with intervals , until the 16th , when they almost disappeared , and the volcano subsided to its usual state .
" On Sunday the 18th , in the neighbouring villages of Tanauan , Sto .
Tomas , and Talisay , and nearly as far .
as Lipa , a fog of smoke , wdth smell of sulphur , was observed , which disappeared suddenly at noon ; a short time after occurred the violent earthquake of Sunday , at 12 h. 40 m. p.m. In the afternoon of the same day , the 18th , the volcano again threw up the two columns of smoke , at intervals , until Tuesday the 20th , at 10 h. a.m. , when it ceased smoking entirely .
In the afternoon , at 3 h. and some minutes , the violent earthquake , felt at Manila , which was also most intense at Batangas and towards the Laguna , occurred .
From eight to ten on Tuesday night , a brightness was seen over the volcano , as if reflecting the light of fire from the crater on the vapours which arose from it .
This brightness ceased suddenly and the atmosphere cleared entirely , and at ten began the strong shocks of earthquakes , the first being the violent shock felt in Manila .
These continued in the Province of Batangas " ( in which Taal is situated ) " during the night and were sensible for several days .
" On Wednesday the 21st , in the morning , the volcano threw up a great quantity of smoke , to a considerable height , in one column , the whole size of the crater , and continues to do so up to the time of writing this notice .
" In the evening , the Volcano of Maquiling , which had been considered extinct , gave forth much smoke , which caused terror in the province , because the people feared the crater there would break out again , and they called to mind the terrible eruption of the Volcano of Taal , on 12th December , 1754 , when the lava destroyed the villages of Tanauay , Sapa , Lipa , and Taal , which villages were afterwards rebuilt in a position more remote from the volcano .
" Among other strange phenomena recorded , it is stated from other sources that the great mountains of Banajoa , Maquiling , and San 470 Prof. G. G. Stokes .
On a Simple [ Feb. 24 , Cristobal were observed at the time of the earthquake to be covered by clouds of , to all appearance , gaseous vapour ; and the Padre Bravo , Curate of Lilio , asserts , that the movement of Banajoa was so awful to behold that residents of that village , situated at the base of the mountain , feared that it would fall over and bury them beneath it .
The two sheets containing diagrams of the five principal shocks were lithographed at Manila , under the careful supervision of Father Faura , and I thought it better to send them as received rather than attempt a tracing , the lines being so complicated .
I have not appended a translation of the few descriptive notes on the sheets , as the terms used are almost identical with their English signification .
February 24 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On a Simple Mode of Eliminating Errors of Adjustment in Delicate Observations of Compared Spectra .
" By Professor G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received February 12 , 1881 .
When the identity or difference of position of two lines , bright or dark , in the spectra of two lights from different sources has to be compared with the utmost degree of accuracy , they are admitted simultaneously into different but adjacent parts of the slit of a spectroscope and viewed together .
It was thus , for instance , that Dr. Huggins proceeded in determining the radial component of the velocity of the heavenly bodies relatively to the earth .
It is requisite that the two lights that are to be compared should fall in a perfectly similar manner on the slit : and it will be seen , from a perusal of his paper , , how careful Dr. Huggins was in this respect .
In a paper read before the Royal Society on the 3rd instant , Mr. Stone has proposed to make the observation independent of a possible* error in the exact coincidence of the lights compared by constructing a reversible spectroscope , by which the light should he refracted alternately right and left , supposing for facility of explanation the-slit to be vertical .

