6 .
" On Clairaut 's Theorem and Subjects connected with it .
" By Matthew Collins , Esq. , B.A. , Senior Moderator in Mathematics and Physics of Trin .
Coll. Dublin .
Communicated by S. Hunter Christie , Esq. , M.A. , Sec. R.S. &amp;c. Received May 2 , 1853 .
The author begins his investigations by proving the existence of principal axes for any point of a body , which he makes to depend on the existence of principal axes of an auxiliary ellipsoid ( Poinsot 's central one ) having its centre at the given point , and such that any semidiameter of it is reciprocally proportional to the radius of gyration of the body about that semidiatmeter .
He afterwards employs another ellipsoid ( called McCullagh 's ellipsoid of inertia ) concentric to the former and reciprocal to it , which admirably suits and facilitates the remainder of his investigations , and whose characteristic property is this , that it gives the radius of gyration itself ( and not its reciprocal , as in Poinsot 's ) about any semidiameter of it , the radius of gyration being in fact equal to the portion of that semidiameter between the centre and a tangent plane perpendicular to it .
He then proves that the attraction of a body of any shape , whose centre of gravity is and mass is p , on a very remote point P along PO=d , is.+ +-(A B+ C--3M ) , A , B , C being the three principal d &amp; 2d4 moments of inertia of the body , and M its moment about OP .
And if McCullagh 's ellipsoid of inertia be taken having 0 its centre , and its principal axes coinciding in direction with the principal axes of the body at O ; and if a tangent plane to this ellipsoid perpendicular to OP at P ' touch it in R , it is shown that the component of the attraction of the body p on P in a direction perpendicular to OP is parallel to RP ' , and equal to x OP ' x P'R .
Next comes the proposition , " if two confo'cal ellipsoids attract an external point , their two resultants are coincident in direction and proportional to their masses , " the truth of which is very easily inferred from Ivory 's theorem .
This proposition is then employed in proving that the expressions already found for the attractions of a body of any shape on a very remote point hold true likewise for the attractions of an ellipsoid ( whether it be homogeneous , or only composed of concentric ellipsoidal strata having the same principal axes , and any variable but small excentricities ) on any external point , whether near or remote .
To apply these reasonings to the case of the earth , the ellipsoid is then supposed to become a spheroid , and the attracted point P is supposed on its surface ; then C=B and M=B cos2 X-i A sin2 X , X being the angle OP(= d ) makes with the equator ; and so the central at3 traction along PO , viz. ?
+ --(A+B+ C-3M ) , then becomes 0 2d4 d +T( -3 sin2 X ) , where T= 4(A-B ) : the attraction of the spheroid on P perpendicular to PO and urging P towards the equator is also easily shown to become T sin 2X .
Now that the point P may be at rest , it is necessary that the tangential component of the central force acting along PO should be equal to the sum of the tangential components of the centrifugal force ( acting on P perpendicular to the ear ; th 's axis ) , and of the force perpendicular to PO ; this condition gives an equation from which Clairaut 's theorem follows instanter , due regard being had to the difference of the polar and equatorial gravities as determined by the general expression +T(1-3 sin AX ) , and the ellipticity of the exterior surface being supposed so small that its square and higher powers may be rejected .

