]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
AND PEYSICAL BNCiES .
Beams .
By JAIIES J. , University College , London .
( Communicated by Prof. W. E. Dalby , F.R.S. Received November 30 , 1917 .
) The problem of the state of stress in a curved beam under load has been attacked by Winkler , and , later , by Mr. Andrews and Prof. Karl Pearson , * whose paper contains an of the prior work on the subject .
BernoulliEulerian methods were used in both these investigations .
While the conclusions arrived at indicate that the curvature , when considerable , cannot be neglected without serious error\mdash ; a matter which is borne out by experin ) ents \mdash ; the values of the stresses arrived at do not satisfy the conditions of the problem in a satisfactory manner .
Now consider the effect of a pure bending moment applied to a ) curved narrow beam hose central plane is ABCDE and whose axis of curvature is , as is shown in fig. 1 .
The strained beam will also , by symmetry , be of uniform curvature : suppose it adjusted so that the axis of curvature , the plane ABCDE , and the line ABC are in their original positions .
Let CA and be the inner and outer radii of the If CFG be a radius of the unstrained beam in its central plane , it will strain into a radius as is clear from symmetry .
Thus the will strain into HKNL and a point , whose co-ordinates referred to CAB are , will strain to , whose co-ordinates are the radial displacement and consequently radial strain .
The ' ' On a Theory of Stresses in Crane and Coupling Hooks by E. S. Karl Pearson , ' Drapers ' Co. Research Memoirs , ' Technical Series , I , pp. 1-27 .
VOL. XCV.\mdash ; A. Mr. J. J. Guest .
circumferential strain will be which is , and since is constant vervwhere , this may be written Let the circumfel.ential stress be and the radial .
By the symmetrv of the bending there can be no shear stress over planes and hence and are principal stresses .
By the of a polar element ( shown shaded ) , ( 1 ) and if be 's Modulus , and Poisson 's ratio and which , and which substitution in ( 1 ) .
( 4 ) Putting coulplete is Curved which , .
and altering the constants , ives ( 5 ) where and are to be detenmined the Substituting in ( 2 ) , the value of the radial stress is give by The values of the constant and are now to be determined from the fact that is zero at the boundaries and , so that , ( 6 ) and Hence Substituting in Hence ' So that in ( 4 ) the radial displacement is The stresses can uo found .
From ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) , or And from ( 3 ) obtained the circumfelential stress \ldquo ; , or .
( 9 ) The value of is to be obtained the lloment of the esbes 1 ' Mr. J. J. Guest .
over any cross-section to the applied bending moment .
Thus , if width of the section , therefore ( 10 ) By this value for in equations ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , and ( S ) the complete expressions for the radial ] acenlent and stresses are obtained .
In a curved beam , therefore , in addition to the circumferential stress there is a radial stress , which\mdash ; as is shown by the curves given ] ) ears a considerable ratio to circumferential stress .
The value of this stress , which is zero at the inner and outer surfaces of the beam , a naximum value at the iven by in which is negative .
Hence the sign of is always the same , ) eing dependent only upon the sign of , which depends upon the sense of If the beam is of such material as mild steel it will yield upon the occurrence of a particular shear stress .
* The maximum hear Gress at any point is iven by , ( 12 ) and its value changes gradually as varies from to .
its greatest alues at the inner and outer surfaces of the beam , where they are and opposite being zero when ' ' On Iaterials under Combined css J. J. lest , ' Phil. } , 1900 ; " " On Guest 's Law of Combined Stresses by Prof. .
H. 1 08 , etc. Curved Beams .
that is , at the point at which is a maximum .
Hence the shear stress at is.negative and at positive ( regarded as positive ) , and the former is the greater .
This may be seen from the stless curves or by putting , when the algebraic sum of these values of is , the value of which is zero is unity and negative .
Since at these surfaces is zero , the shear stress and the circumferential stress reach a maximum together .
With regard to the perpendicular shear stress due to the radial stress , it to be that , since the maximum value of the radial stress occurs simultaneously with zero shear stress in the planes , this } of radial stress is equal to the value of the circumferential stress at the point , and hence is less than the maximm value of the circumferential stress .
Hence a curved beam of ductile material yields when the circumferential stress at the inner radius reaches the tensional yield point as determined in the customary manner .
It is clearly seen , by considering the equilibrium of an element , or of a thin half hoop , at the inner radius , that the radial stress is of the same nature tension compression ) as the circumferential stress there , and the existence of the radial stress , together with some idea as to its tude , can be leaned by this elementary consideration .
the stlength of a curved beam may be taken as being governed by the circumerential stress at the inner radius , though in the case of materials such as cast iron , which particularly weak in tension , the stress at the outer radius is to be considered if that be in tension without alternation .
If the curvature is considerable , however , even cast iron will fail by compression\mdash ; or by the implicated shear stress\mdash ; at the inner radius , as the stress is there so considerably greater than at the outer radius .
Since at the inner radius the stress is oiven by the value of the unferential stress then is ( 13 ) So that the quantity in a curved beam which corresponds to the modulus , of a straight beam is .
J. J. Guest .
It convenient for purposes of calculation to write } and putting this expression al the same time into terms of the depth 1 ) of the bealJl , the equation for the maximum stress becomes Thus the effect of the curvature upon the strength of the beam is expressed by the value of the coefficient The lilnibing value , , corresponds to the case of a straight beam , and the evaluation of the value of which is then indeterminate , is suggestive of the necessit ) .
for carrying ical calculations neighbouring of to a considerable numl ) of figures .
] the numerator by and the denominator by the differentiations and Hence in the limit , which is the well known formula for a Taking the other extreme , a very small inner adius for which , the stress is rajn indeterminate , so that the effect of an indefinite]y small radius is to cause the stress there to be indefinitely great .
The numerical values of the coefficient for a number of values of are oiven i I ( plotted into a curve in .
From these the Table 1 .
Curved Beams .
strength of a beam such as is under consideration can be readily ascertained , as the maximum stress may be calculated by the stress which Mr. J. J. Guest .
would be produced by the moment if the beam were straight by one-sixth of the coefficient .
The value of the expression , termed , and other functionq of are also given , as being useful in later calculations .
Both and are actually ative .
In fig. 2 a functional scale is added whereby the value of the coefficients can be read off when the ratio of inner radius to depth of beam is given .
For tize purpose of ascertaining the stress distribution in the it fnrther convenient to express .
as a fraction of : and ' as thih value equation ( 9 ) becomes .
( 15 ) And in like manner .
( 16 ) Thus the two quantities and alone are necessary to find the stresses at any point of the beam .
Taking as an illustration , the value of is , and the values of and for a series of on the cross-section are as follows : Table II.\mdash ; Stresses in Curved Beam .
In fig. given the curves for these circumferential and radial stresses arranged as percentages of the maximum circumferential stress occurring .
The value of the main shear stress is also shown to the same scale .
The greatest shear stress at the various radii is indicated by the broken curve , which is composed of three pieces corresponding to different nlodes of the shear and so has two angular points .
In this case , the circumferential stress at the outer radius is Curved 26 per cent. and the maximum radial stress nearly 30 per cent. of the greatest stress .
The radius at which the main shear stress vanishes and at which the radial stress is a maxinrum is given by a result which might well be compared with optical experiments , which would afford an indication of the effect of rate of change of curvature stress distribution .
This value of .
diminishes to zero as diminishes , ential and radial stresses then infinite .
The ular distortion of the beam ( i.e. , the change of the ubtended by the beam at its centre of curvature ) is given directly by the value of as .
obtained from equation ( 10 ) , and the radial of shape by the substitution of the values of and in equation ( 7 ) .
In terms of and this equation becomes on reduction ( 17 ) The value of the radius of the unstretched fibre , which corresponds to the " " neutral axis\ldquo ; of a straight beam , is obtained by equating so that if , it is given by Mr. J. J. Guest .
It llay be that the circumferential stress does not vanish at this point .
When is very nall , so that is , the unstretched fibre is at nearesl to the of curvature , the value of then iven by so that The numerical of in general is most easily obtained by the radial stress curve in fig. 3 , in the ratio , the intersection of this reduced curve with the } nferential stress curve the solution required .
The equired part of the reduced curve is shown dotted in the figure .
In view of the reat increase of the maximum stress with the decrease of ratio of internal to external radius , it may be enquired whether increase of outer radius always reduces the stres , the innel radius and the applied moment maintained constant .
If made equal to unity and be written for in the equation it so that for a ininlUlJ value The expression 01 ] the left-hand side vanishes when , and for values of is ahvays negative and of increasing nitude .
Hence inued increase of the external radius reduces the stress at the inn cansed by an unvarying moment .
of in a narrow beam of considerable curyature thus differs that in a beam of similar section in the distribution of the circumfelential stress , in its maximum value , and in the existence adial stress which becomes rapidly gl.eater as the curvature the thickness is increased other differences arise .
The case ha been given in detail , as its results are enerally of use and simplicity affords an introduction to the ects added by the widenin , of the beam .
the case of a beam bounded by planes , and consider the conditions under which there is parallel to which case will be none ovel the planes .
By symnletly , there be no shear stress over any plane through , and , since is zero , if be the shear stress across planes normal to and Curved so that is constant as regards ?
: Since it must van ish at the boundary , it is zero throughout the material , so that no such shear stress exists in beam , and , and are principal stresses .
If be the circumferentialt displacement , will ) constant before , and both the radial displacement and the displacement parallel to will be independent of The complete stress-strain relations will be , ( 18 ) , ( 19 ) which , with one equation the stresses , are the ecluations to be satisfied .
Since constant , , where A is a function of is shown by ( 21 ) to be function only , to reduce to when is measured ( see fig. 1 ) as previously .
So that , as in former case .
Differentiating ( 22 ) with to from ( 20 ) . .
so that , substituting from ( 18 ) and ( 19 ) , .
Again the result of ( and from ( 18 ) , is , in the earlier part of the work , Mr. J. J. Guest .
Hence and ( 26 ) * so that ?
where and are functions of When the plane is one of symmetly , must be zero , and , since is itself a complementary function of ( 26 ) , must be the complete solution found , and in which the quantities and refer to the section of the beam by the central plane of symmetry .
Hence , .
again , the displacement is .
( 27 ) From ( 20 ) ( 2S ) so that and since , at the central plane , for all values of zero and ( 29 ) Now , substituting from ( 27 ) in ( 2 ) , the value of the radial stress is given by ( 30 ) The value of must be zero at the inner and outer boundary surfaces of the beam , and hence the cross-section cannot be ular if is to be zero , but must be of the shape .
( 31 ) Taki C unity for the scale , the of curves are traced in for the case as before .
By drawing any lines equidistant from and parallel to the line of symmetry CAB , form of cross-section SAS'WBW ' is obtained for a curved beam whose axis of curvature is , such that produces no stress parallel to This value has been taken ab the neatest simple tigure to the average of the results of the author 's experiments , such as are given in " " Torsional Hysteresis of Mild Steel by J. J. Guest and F. C. Lea , ' .
Soc. , vol. 93 , p. 313 ( 1917 ) .
Curved Be Mr. J. J. Guest .
Substituting from ( 27 ) in ( 3 ) , the circumferential stress is given by therefore ( 32 ) and the sheer stress is given by .
( 33 ) So that the hses depend not only upon the values of but also upon the value of ) is ative oyer the central plaue , the magllitude of the radial stress increases as the central plane is departed .
Ill the taken , where the radial stress at .
is iven 1 Thus , in which case is 41 , the value of the radial stl.ess is increased per cent. when At the same radius the cumferential stress is proportionally when and is reduced to when is equal to In lines are drawn at equal distances of from the centre line , giving a beam section in which the ratio of width to depth is rather more than one-half .
The inner cnrvature is such ( the surface of the beam bein hollow both ways ) that at the the radius is only one-half what it is at the central section , being .
The outer surface has much less culvatule and is anticlasCic .
Above the figure are drawn the giving the circumferential and radial stresses at the side surfaces .
They are upon a scale made by taking the at the inner radius the central section as unity .
The general shape of the is sinlilar to those already given for the narrow beam , the stresses } higher , and ) ates of at the inner surface are The circumferential stress has value of at the inner radius , and a ( of opposite of at the outer radius , compared with and at the central plane .
The radial stress eaches a maximum value of the outside , while the maximum value at central plane is to an increase of 50 per cent. Curued In bending , the shape of the cross-section distorts , the curvature of the inner and outer surfaces changing as is given by the eqnalion for Further , the sides do uot remain flat , as is the case with ) eanl , but become curved arithnlically , the displacement equation as their strained shape It will be noted that the curve iviug the inner sulface of pes which strain as above described joinls the axis of curvature at the distance the central plane , and the stress at that point becomes indefinitely .
Other sections than those above described oenerally strcxs 1 parallel to the axis of curvature and shear stress , so that are no principal stresses .
A case of particular interest is when the stress and strain are }endent of so that the beam maintains a cylindrical form when ) This a suitable distribution of tractions over the end surfaces , and the strain parallel to will be constant , , so thab The value of will be a function of 7 ; and it will b , e a principal stress since ) , and both and are zero .
As in the ease , the circumferential displacement will be , and the equations will be .
( 36 ) and For purposes of simplicity ' be taken as zero , and if in any case it be not zero , the correction can easily be made by the addition of a uniform traction over the end faces .
and the equations become Mr. J. J. Guest .
so that the equations may be written and These are the equations as those for the case of the narrow beam first treated , with and replaced by and , so that the solution of the above tions can at once be written down .
Thus the equation ( 10 ) for becomes so that the beam is stiffer than the narrow beam in the ratio 1 to Combining ( 7 ) with ( 10 ) the expression for the radial displacement becomes The values of the circumferential and radial stresses for a defin ite bending moment are the same as } ) efore , so that , ( 40 ) , ( 41 ) , ( 42 ) and a traction of this amount must be applied to the end-faces of the beam .
onsidering the action over an end-surface of the beam subtending an angle at the axis , the total force due to these tractions is ' or 4 , .
Curved The value o integral is Hence the total end tractions produce bending moment only along the edge of the beam , and the case is that of a beam in which the ends are maintained square without any net total force being applied .
Hence , this is the case in a wide curved beam acted on by a bending moment only , at a distance from the ends constrained by connections to the beam itself .
When the beam section is other than one of those described above , both shearing stresses around the circumferential lines and stresses parallel to occur , and some of the less important phenomena involved are to be neglected in order that the stress in a particular case may be estimated .
dingly the author suggests for engineering purposes the combination of a semigraphical method with the results previously obtained .
The beam is supposed to be divided by a series of planes , parallel to the plane of bending , into parts whose cross-sections can be regarded as narrow and rectangular .
These are supposed to bend independently of one another , except that the value of is the same for each .
Thus , if a section be made before strain by a plane through the axis of curvature , after strain the faces of all the strips will be plane and lie in one plane through the axis of curvature .
The particular share of the bending moment which is carried by each strip is then calculated and the sum of these is regarded as representing the stiffness of the beam .
The maximum stress is then obtained as that in the most stressed strip .
If the variation of the radial displacement from one strip to another be comparatively small , as will be the case with many sections , the estimation of the maximum stress by the method will be close , as the shearing stress and stress parallel to the axis in the actual beam will be small and will disturb circumferential stress and its distribution in a secondary degree only .
The bending moment carried by a strip is obtained from equation ( 10 ) , which gives where is the width of the strip and are now the values for the particular strip under consideration .
Putting and , this becomes VOL. XCV .
Mr. J. J. Guest .
Curved Beams .
so that the whole moment carried by the beam is , ( 43 ) when is the width and the ratio for the particular strip .
These are determined by measurement of the drawing and the corresponding value of the coefficient , termed , is given in Table I and by the curve in fig. 5 .
From equation ( 15 ) so that , if be the least value of for the various strips , the corresponding maximum value of is given by So tlJat , substituting this value of in equation ( 4.3 ) if be written for .
The values of the function are given in Table I , and by the curve in fig. 5 .
As an example , consider the case of the circular ABC , centre shown in fig. 6 .
The half shown divided into 10 equal spaces and the corresponding middle lines drawn and measured .
Taking the radius of the circle as 10 , the width of the strip will be unity .
For sake comparison take two curvatures\mdash ; the axes being at DE , where AD ( so that the inner radius is the same as the radius of the section and is one-third ) and , where the value of FH is one-tenth that of FC\mdash ; the value of previously taken as illustrative .
The values of and of for the various sections are then tabulated as in Table III .
The values of corresponding to the Mr. J. J. Guest .
various values of are then found from the curve of fig. 5 , and the products obtained .
The sum of these for the whole cross-section is then found and multiplied by the width ( here unity ) of the strips .
Table III .
Taking the minimum ( the central ) value of , the corresponding value of is then found by reference to the curve in fig. 5 , and the circumferential stress at the corresponding point obtained from equation ( 44 ) .
For the axis DE , and NI while for the axis and M. These bear to the stress which would be correspondingly produced if the beam were straight the ratios and If the stresses produced by a bending moment in a narrow rectangular beam having the same values of as the minimum values of the above circular sections be compared with the stress which would be produced if the rectangular beam were straight , the ratios are and The latter ratios being known to be accurate , the suggestion is that the Curved errors involved in the former case owing to the assumptions made are comparatively small .
If the circle be distorted by projection so that the figure indicated by the broken line AHKC is obtained , and the same method of stress estimation employed ( for the axis FG only ) , the given Table III result , the tota12 being 2543 .
The value of is as before , so that the ratio of which to that obtained for the circular section with the same axes of curvature is , or an increase of strength of 7 per cent. due to the redistribution of the material .
When a member of a structure or machine is bent so that it has a radiuscorner and is subjected to forces such that cause , at a radial corner section , normal forces , shears , and bending moments , in general the stress due to the bending moment is so high compared with the stresses caused by the forces that the latter may be neglected .
Considering the action of a pure bending moment on a part having a change of curvature the stresses tend to increase with the curvature , but will not attain the magnitudes which they would have if the maximum curvature were continuous .
Accordingly in corners .
an estimation of the maximum stress by the preceding method will be an overestimate of the actual amount , and the method may therefore be safely used for design .
In conclusion , the stresses produced by a bending moment in uniform curved beams of certain sections have been determined , and by means of the curves or Tables given their amount in these cases can readily be ascertained .
In the case of other sections , provided that they have no extraordinary features , a consideration of the results obtained shows that the shearing stress about the circumferential lines produces small effect upon the circumferential stresses , and in such cases the method of estimation given will afford a close approximation to the maximum stress produced by the bending moment .

