II .
" iOn Certain Sensory Organs in Insects , hitherto nudescribed .
" By J. BRAXTON HICKS , M.D. Lond. , F.L.S. &amp;c. Communicated by JOHN W. LUBBOCK , Esq. Received May 14 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) The author commences with an allusion to papers published in the Linnean Society 's 'Journal ' and ' Traisactions ' respecting groups of organs , abundantly supplied with nerves , on the bases of the halteres of Diptera , also on the nervures of the wings and on the elytra of Coleoptera ; and now gives a drawing which shows forth these organs , and the nerve proceeding to them on the halteres .
He then describes , for the first time , somewhat similar organs on the apices of the palpi of some Diptera , and on their base in many Hymenoptera , as Apis , Vep , Nomada , Me achile , Bombus , &amp;c. These are well shown in the Vespa C abro , or Hfornet , where the nerve is seen expanding in the thin membrane which covers in the opening beneath in the wall of the member .
In the paper also , it is pointed out for the first time , that on the apex of the palpi of Lepidoptera tI ere is invariably found a structure which is more or less of a cavity , generally tubuflar , and sometimes extending inwards iiearly the lerngth of the last segment , but sometimes only a depression .
To it a nerve is given which expanids on the apex of the cavity .
The author then describes groups of organs , allied in form to those on the palpi , which are to be found on the legs of all insects yet examined .
There are about three groups situated about the trochantero-femoral joint , and to them nerves can be distinctly seen proceeding ; and in Melon the branch is seen to pass up the opening in the wall , to terminate in a papilla in the centre of the membraiie covering it in .
It is also shown that the bladder-like apex of the palpi , instead of being smooth , as is generally described , is covered with a great number of small bodies , something in form like ninepins , sonetimes exceedingly small , requiring a 1-inch objective to make them out , when they can clearlybe discerned to be a modified condition of true hairs , copiously supplied with nerves .
The author names these " tactile hairs , " and points out their existence in all palpi used for touching , and in other organs subservient to that function .
These tactile hairs are very large in the palpi and antennae of Dyticus marginalis .
The barrel-like organs of the Lepidoptera are next investigated , and are shown to have a nerve passing up them ; but whether proceeding to the apex of the nipple-like papilla on them or not , cannot be quite made out .
They are pointed out as being nearly allied to the organs on each of the palpi of the Earwig ( Fo ?
yelcula auricularia ) .
The aurhor refers to the sacs found on the antennue of all insects , which have been fuilly treated of in two papers read by him before the Linnean Society , and published in their ' Transactions ; ' and he lastly examines the probable functions of all these organs , which must be of sensation , probably special .
Attention is also called to the value of bleaching the tissues by chlorine in investigating the structure of insects , which process was first used by the author and described by him in the papers above mentioned .
About forty drawings accompany the paper illustrative of the structures described .

