On the British Earthquakes of 1889 .
1890 .
] |L the rise of blood pressure respiration occurred , even although a much higher intracranial tension was maintained than had been sufficient to arrest it when the blood pressure was lower .
II By the direct application of pressure in the upper part of the 4th ventricle a slowing of the heart with a rise of blood pressure was ill caused , whilst rapid respiration continued , so rapid as even to be nearly three times the rate of the heart in some cases .
Pressure below the calamus scriptorius arrested the respiration without directly influencing the heart , whilst in the lower part of the 4th ventricle respiration was impeded or arrested along with a fall in blood pressure , and some slowing of the heart , followed by arrest , after the respiration had ceased .
Numerous observations are recorded which are , in many cases , combinations of the foregoing , and therefore not suitable for condensation in this abstract .
Tracings are fui'nished illustrating each point advanced .
j\#174 ; i :m d i \gt ; 1 i it J ill si Is ce( I lu l i \#166 ; in ' j ilj jj : r\#174 ; S if ' X. " On the British Earthquakes of 1889 .
" By Charles Davison , M.A. , Mathematical Master at King Edward 's High School , Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor T. G. Bonney , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June lb , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The nature of the evidence on which the accounts are founded is stated , and the method of study described .
If the disturbed area be of small dimensions , and if its boundary be approximately circular or slightly elliptical in form , it is assumed that the centre of the area coincides very closely with the epicentrum of the earthquake .
During the year 1889 there were at least five earthquakes whose epicentra were situated within the area of the British Islands .
h Edinburgh Earthquakes , January 18.\#151 ; ( a. ) First shock about 4 b- 10 m. Intensity ( according to the Rossi-Forel scale , of which a translation is given ) about V. Very little is known about this shock .
( t ) Second shock , 6 h. 53 m. Intensity VI .
The disturbed area is slightly elliptical in form , being 30 miles long from north to south and 2tjl miles broad from east to west ; area about 620 square miles , n most , places the shock consisted of a single vibration .
The charac-ustie earth quake-sounds were heard in many places , and these places are confined to an area which is neither coextensive nor concentric with 400 ^'s^UI4)ed area .
The epicentrum is at a point about 3 miles W. , 1 Balerno , and the centre of the sound-area about 2|r miles to e south or south-east of this point .
The earthquake was probably Mr. C. Davison .
[ June lo , connected with the first of the N.W. and S.E. faults of the Pentlands on the north-west side of the axis ; a fault which passes close by the centre of the sound-area , and has a downthrow to the north-west The inclination of this fault is unknown , but is probably about 75 ' to the horizon ; the depth of the seismic force may therefore be about 85 miles .
It is shown that the earthquake was probably caused by the impulsive friction produced by a slip of the fault referred to-that this slip took place near the middle of the length of the fault : that the slip increased the throw of the fault ; that the slip-area was very short , possibly less than a mile in horizontal length , but that it extended from a depth of several miles to within a short distance of the surface .
2 .
Lancashire Earthquake , February 10.\#151 ; 22 h. 36 m. Intensity VI .
The disturbed area is nearly circular in form , about 55 miles in diameter , and 2480 square miles in area .
The nature of the shock varied with the position of the place of observation .
In , or nearly in , a line with the Irwell fault the number of vibrations was gener-ally greater than in places more remote .
As in the Edinburgh earthquake , the usual sounds were heard in many places which are confined to a nearly circular area , which is neither coextensive nor concentric with the disturbed area .
The duration of the sound was generally greater at places in , or nearly in , a line with the Irwell fault than at places more remote .
The epieentrum , which is probably coincident with the common centre of the disturbed area and of the isoseismal line of intensity V , is at a point 2 miles N.N.E. of Bolton , and the centre of the sound-area is about 3j miles S.S.E. of the epieentrum .
The earthquake was probably caused by a slip of the great Irwell fault , which passes close by the centre of the sound-area , having a downthrow to the north-east .
If so , the slip must have increased the throw of the fault .
The horizontal length of the slip-area was possibly not much more than a mile .
The seismic focus is perhaps at a depth of about 3^ miles , but the slip seems to have extended to within a short distance of the surface .
The excentricity of the sound-area in these two cases throws light on the origin of the sound-vibrations .
Seismographic records show that near the beginning of an earthquake the period increases with the amplitude , and it is suggested that the sound-vibrations are the very minute vibrations of short period which proceed from the upper and lateral margins of the slip-area .
It is pointed out that this theory explains all the known characteristics of earthquake-sounds .
3 .
Ben Nevis Earthquake , May 22.\#151 ; 13 h. 58 m. Intensity about IV .
This shock may have been connected with the great fault which crosses Scotland from Inverness in a south-west direction .
4 .
KintyreEarthquake , July 15.\#151 ; About 18 h. Intensity V. The disturbed area is roughly elliptical in form , the longer axis being iJ1 | 1890 .
] On the British Earthquakes of 1889 .
j a direction about N. 30 ' E. to S. 30 ' W. ; it is about 25 miles long i and 18 miles broad , and about 350 square miles in area .
The sound- , area appears to be coextensive with the disturbed area , but the l observations are too few in number to prove this .
The epicentrum I is about 3| miles south-east of Clachan .
Dr. Lapworth , in a note to the author , describes briefly the geological structure of the disturbed area , and remarks that its longer axis coincides in direction with the theoretical position of the southern zone of contrary movement in that district .
5 .
East Cornwall Earthquake , October 7.\#151 ; About 13 h. 45 m. Intensity IY .
The disturbed area is elliptical in form , 25 miles long and 20 miles broad , the longer axis running east and west , and about 400 square miles in area .
The nature of the shock varied somewhat throughout the disturbed area , but its intensity was very nearly constant .
Near the centre of the area the earthquake-sounds were the most prominent feature , but towards the boundary these died out .
The sound-area may , however , have been coextensive with the disturbed area , and it is probable that the sound-focus is nearer the surface than the seismic focus .
The epicentrum is at a point about 2f miles south-west of Altarnon , which is not far from the centre of the great granite boss of eastern Cornwall .
The longer axis of the disturbed area is also parallel to the axis of folding of the district .
Doubtful Earthquakes.\#151 ; Two shocks , supposed to be those of earthquakes , are briefly described , but the evidence is insufficient to prove their seismic origin:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Little Rhondda Valley ( S. Wales ) , June 22 , about 22 h. 30 m. ; ( 2 ) Lyme Regis , July 5 , between 23 h. and 23 h. 15 m. The former of these may possibly have been caused by subsidences of the rock over worked-out portions of the coal mines .
In conclusion , the differences between British and Swiss earthquakes are pointed out .
The former are rare , and their disturbed areas more or less circular , indicating short fault-slips ; the latter are frequent , and their disturbed areas elongated , their axes being parallel to those of the neighbouring mountain ranges , and the fault- !
, hps correspondingly long .
They are witnesses respectively of com-paratively late and early stages in the process of mountain evolution .

