A Paper was read , entitled , " On the nature of negative and ima ?
ginary quantities .
" By Davies Gilbert , Esq. President of the Royal Society .
The object of this paper , the author observes , is one that has given rise to much controversy , and has been involved in much unnecessary mystery .
Paradoxes and apparent solecisms , when involved with facts and indubitable truths , will always be found , upon accurate examination , to be near the surface , and to owe their existence either to ambiguities of expression , or to the unperceived adoption of some extraneous additions or limitations into the compound terms employed for definition , and which are subsequently taken as constituent parts of their essence .
The first misapprehension pointed out , is that of considering any quantity whatever as negative per se , and without reference to another opposed to it , which has previously been established as positive .
In order to avoid previously formed associations of ideas , the author prefers employing in his reasonings on this subject , the symbols ( a ) and ( b ) to express this quality of opposition , rather than the usual ones oiplus and minus .
By the aid of this notation he is enabled to present , in its full generalization , the law of the signs in multiplication , ?
a process which , it is well known , is founded solely upon the principle of ratios ; and to show that like signs invariably give the sign belonging to the assumed unity , or universal antecedent of the ratios $ and unlike signs , the contrary .
Since either the one or the other of the arithmetical scales derived from the two unities is in itself equally affirmative , but negative with relation to the other , it follows , that by using the scale of ( 6 ) , all even roots in the scale of ( a ) will become imaginary , and thus the appa ?
rent discrimination of the two scales is removed $ so that the properties belonging to the two scales are interchangeable , and all formulae become universally applicable to both , by changing the signs according to the side in which the universal antecedent is taken .
Imaginary quantities , then , are merely creations of arbitrary definitions , endowed with properties at the pleasure of him who defines them ; and the whole dispute respecting their essence turns upon the very point that has been contested from the earliest times , between the hostile sects of realists and nominalists .
It is now , however , universally agreed , that all abstractions and generalizations are mere creatures of the reasoning faculty , existing nowhere but in the mind contemplating them .
Such , in algebra , are the supposed even roots of a real quantity , taken in the scale opposite to that which has given the universal antecedent : the sign indicating the extraction impossible to be performed , veils the real quantity , and renders it of no actual value until the sign is taken away by an involution , the reverse of the supposed operation which the sign represents ; although the quantity itself is , in the mean time , by its arbitrary essence , made applicable to all the purposes for which real quantities are used , in every kind of for ?
mula .
Several illustrations of these views of the nature of imaginary quantities occurring in logarithmic formula ?
, and series expressing circular arcs , are given by the author .
By considering all quantity as affirmative per se , and admitting plus and minus merely as correlative terms , we thus succeed in banishing mystery and paradox from the science most powerful in eliciting truth , and where they ought least to find a place .

