54 Prof. G. H. F. Ulrich .
a Meteoric Stone Observations , \amp ; c. ( continued ) .
Verification of Standard Weights for Use in India .
Folio .
London 1893 .
The Department .
New Haven:\#151 ; Astronomical Observatory of Yale University .
Transactions .
Vol. I. Parts 3\#151 ; 4 .
4to .
New Haven 1893 .
The Observatory .
Vienna:\#151 ; v. Kuffner'sche Sternwarte .
Publicationen .
Bd .
I. 4to .
Wien 1889 .
The Observatory .
Washington :\#151 ; U.S. Department of Agriculture .
Weather Bureau .
Report of the Ohio Weather and Crop Service .
December , 1892 .
8vo .
Norwalk 1893 ; Maryland State Weather Service .
Monthly Report of Observations .
Vol. II .
No. 9 .
8vo .
[ 1893 .
] The Bureau .
Wellington , N.Z.:\#151 ; Registrar-General 's Office .
Statistics of the Colony .
1891 .
Folio .
Wellington 1892 ; Results of a Census of the Colony .
1891 .
Folio .
Wellington 1892 .
The Registrar-General .
" On a Meteoric Stone found at Makariwa , near Invercargill , New Zealand .
" By Professor G. H. F. Ulrich , F.G.S. , of the University , Dunedin , New Zealand .
Communicated by Professor J. W. Judd , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1892 , \#151 ; Read February 2 , 1893 .
Introductory .
The stone under notice was not seen to fall , but the following description regarding the site of its discovery , its mineral character , and structure can leave no doubt of its being of meteoric origin .
Towards the end of the year 1886 , when a large party of mining prospectors were preparing , with Government aid , for departure to the Big Bay district , west coast of Middle Island , Mr. Th. Fenton , a student of the Dunedin University School of Mines , was sent to Invercargill , where the party assembled , to instruct those of the men who desired it in rough assaying for gold and the use of the blowpipe .
On the occasion of one of his lectures , he received from a Mr. Arch. Marshall , for examination , a piece of stone which , from its weight and appearance , was supposed to be something out of the common .
Mr. Fenton made a rough qualitative analysis of a sample of the stone , and on finding strong reactions for nickel , thought it of sufficient interest to preserve the several small fragments remaining of the piece l'eceived from Marshall and to bring them with him to Dunedin , where lie placed them at my free disposal .
One of these fragments I devoted to the preparation of a number of thin sections found at Makariwa , near InvNew Zealand .
55 sliced in different ways , and the microscopic examination of these convinced me at once of the meteoric character of the stone .
After this , I made every endeavour , by correspondence and ultimately travelling to Invercargill , to ascertain the exact locality where and under what circumstances the stone was found , and to obtain more of it if possible ; for the surface outlines of the remaining fragments clearly indicated that it must originally have been of considerable size .
The results of my investigations in these directions are the following :_In the year 1879 , at the completion of the connexion of the railway line Invercargill\#151 ; Winton and the branch line Makariwa __Riverton , two workmen , the brothers Arch , and I. Marshall , while engaged in removing a clay bank at MAkariwa Junction , found in the clay , about 2| feet from the surface , a roundish stone , which at once attracted their attention , on account of its weight and because of the fact that in the clay-covered plain surrounding Makariwa Junction stones of any kind are a great rarity .
They broke the stone with the pick and , finding the inside of different aspect from the outside , took the fragments home , and , experimenting with them , discovered that they affected the magnetic needle .
With the intention of having the stone some day further examined , the pieces were kept as curiosities ; but , being unsightly , they were kicked from one corner of the room into the other , and specimens were also occasionally knocked off for friends interested in the find .
Mr. Arch. Marshall , who gave in these particulars , told me , on further inquiry , that the stone , when originally found , had a knobby* roundish shape , was of the size of a large man 's fist , or perhaps a little larger , and might have weighed between 4 and 5 lbs. The exact place of the find was about half way between the railway station on the Winton line and the station master s house , some 20 feet from the line of rails .
A search by Mr. Marshall for another piece of the stone which he thought was still somewhere about the premises at the time he gave the one to Mr. Fenton proved , unfortunately , unsuccessful , and the only secured remnants of this meteorite are the two pieces sent with this paper and another small piece divided between the Dunedin and Wellington Museums .
Macroscopic Character of the Stone .
All the fragments show portions of a yellowish-brown , rather soft , and earthy decomposition-crust , from 2 to 3 mm. in thickness , which evidently enveloped the entire stone when found .
The undecomposed rock beneath this crust is very finely granular , rather hard and firm , and in fresh fracture dark greenish-grey , finely-mottled , light brown , and most nearly resembles fine-grained picrite in appearance ; it slightly darkens , however , on exposure to the air , and shows on old fracture planes a dark brown , ferruginous glaze .
Even under a strong 56 Prof. G. H. F. Ulrich .
On a Meteoric Stone magnifying glass the nature of the minerals composing the rocky part of the stone cannot be determined , but tin-white metallic particles , abundantly present , can easily be distinguished ; one also sees small , irregularly shaped , pores or cavities , some partially filled with a brown ferruginous substance .
After the fragments had lain untouched for some time in a closed box , there were also observed under the magnifying glass , on parts of the fresher-looking surfaces , very small drops of a dark brown fluid , which , however , spread and dried up before a micro-chemical test could be made .
This fluid seems to originate the ferruginous glaze before mentioned , and may possibly consist of chloride of iron .
Microscopic Character of the Stone .
For the purpose of microscopic examination , seven thin sections were available , which proved the stone to belong to the " chondrites , " or , according to Wadsworth , to the variety " saxonite " of the peri-dotites , and to be composed of the following minerals:\#151 ; Olivine , enstatite , glass , a substance resembling glass , nickel-iron , troilite , and black opaque grains , probably magnetite .
All the sections are , besides , more or less strongly flecked and stained with brown hydrous ferric oxide , originated , no doubt , through oxidation of the iron minerals .
Olivine.\#151 ; This is the predominant mineral , and has a faint greenish-yellow colour in common transmitted light , but shows brilliant polarisation-colours between crossed nicols .
It appears partly in well-defined chondrules , partly in larger and smaller grains of crystallike or irregular outlines , closely packed together*\#151 ; the larger ones in some cases much , in others little , fractured ; also in columnar bodies , some short and stout , others long and narrow , and sometimes curved , and all generally much fractured transversely\#151 ; most fractures running at right angles to the length of the crystals , others obliquely , and from both sides .
The extinction between crossed nicols of these columnar bodies is mostly parallel to their longitudinal extent , in cases more or less oblique , and it is rarely quite complete throughout , as small brightly coloured specks are generally observable here and there within the darkened body .
The chondrules show various modes of internal structure .
One kind is very fine granular , of dull-greyish or dusty aspect , and extinguishes pretty uniformly throughout , only some promiscuously distributed bright grains shining out .
Around these chondrules large clear olivine grains , sometimes all of uniform , sometimes each of independent , optical orientation , are frequently arranged ring-like , and so that the divisional joints stand rudely radial ( see figs. 3 and 6 ) .
This radial arrangement of the joints respecting grains is also observable , however , around groups of several larger grains as centre .
A rare and pretty variety of the found at Makariwa , near INew Zealand .
57 kind of chondrule under notice is shown in fig. 1 ( only one example was found in the several sections ) .
In this the mass of the chondrule is constituted partly of fine granular dusky olivine , partly of an assemblage of large clear grains , of this mineral , and has a ring of small clear grains of the same surrounding the fine granular part , whilst there is a .border of dark grains of iron minerals around the whole .
In another kind of chondrule the mass is divided or fractured by strong dark cracks into rudely parallel , columnar , and much cross-fractured portions , which generally extinguish between crossed nicols parallel to their length .
The divisional cracks are sometimes so close together as to impart to the whole a coarsely fibrous structure .
Some large chondrules occur also , exhibiting several systems of parallel cracks which meet at various , generally obtuse,.angles , and in others , again , the cracks are eccentrically radiating .
All the sections show patches of roundish or quite irregular outlines , which have a striking porphyritic structure , arising from the prevalence of an extremely fine granular dusty base , through which are distributed comparatively large clear crystals and irregular grains of olivine , and also occasionally enstatite ; the base is probably also composed of a mixture of granules of these two minerals .
Serpentinisation of the olivine was not observable in any of the sections .
Enstatite.-\#151 ; Besides appearing in the porphyritic mode just mentioned , this mineral occurs also sparingly distributed amongst the larger olivine grains and more abundantly in well defined chondrules .
In the first case , it forms either columnar bodies , sometimes broad , but mostly narrow , or irregularly outlined grains\#151 ; in fact , its forms are very similar to those of the olivine ; and , as its colour is also next to identical with that of the latter\#151 ; if anything , that of enstatite being fainter\#151 ; the two minerals can hardly be distinguished in common transmitted light .
In polarised light , between crossed nicols and on rotation of the stage , the difference is , however , very marked in that the colours of the enstatite are of a low order\#151 ; only various shades of yellow and grey\#151 ; contrasting strongly with the brilliant red , blue , and green colours of the surrounding olivine .
One has to guard , however , against mistakes in this respect , as olivine grains cut at , or nearly at , right angles to one of the optic axes\#151 ; of which there are examples in every section\#151 ; show similar colours on rotation of the stage .
The employment of convergent polarised light solves this question at once , and , in most cases , strongly marked cleavage-cracks are seen in enstatite , parallel to which extinction takes place , whilst generally , also , a finely fibrous structure becomes apparent on slightly lowering the polariser with its top lens .
The chondrules are of rather dusty aspect throughout , or in cases only around the circumference , and have mostly an eccentric or fan-like fibrous structure , as shown respectively in fig. 2 , lower margin , and fig. 5 , upper margin .
On Prof. Gr .
H. F. Ulrich .
a Meteoric Stone rotation of the stage , the extinction is undulating , approximately parallel to the fibre-lines , but a multitude of minute granules and lath-shaped bodies always shine out brightly along the darkened fibres .
As in the case of the olivine , none of the sections show alteration of the mineral to serpentine .
Glass and a substance resembling Glass.\#151 ; These require to be described together , because of their mode of occurrence and their likeness in common transmitted light .
They are both perfectly colourless , transparent , and occur pretty abundantly , though mostly in small particles , filling generally larger and smaller crevices between the grains of olivine or of olivine and enstatite ; their limpidness , combined with absence of colour , rendering them easily distinguishable from these minerals .
The difference between the two substances consists in the one\#151 ; the glass\#151 ; being perfectly isotropic , the other anisotropic .
The large finely-dotted patch near the centre of fig. 5 , , and the similarly dotted belt , enclosing several clear spaces , which extends in fig. 6 from the lower edge through the centre towards the upper edge , consist largely of the real glass .
They show between crossed nicols a dark background , as it were , speckled with innumerable bright granules , polarising in fine colonrs , therefore , no doubt , olivine ; and though on rotation of the stage the dark ground brightens up granular-like in many places , still there are numerous spots which remain perfectly dark throughout a complete rotation .
In fig. 4 a large rather ill-defined olivine chondrule is delineated , in which the clear ( undotted ) parts on the right and left of , and also within the main part of the olivine near the upper edge , consist all of the anisotropic glass-like substance .
For whilst between crossed nicols each separate particle shows dark and light spots\#151 ; the light ones extinguish and the dark ones brighten up on rotating the stage\#151 ; the extinctions are not , however , sharply defined , as in the former case , but cloudy or undulating , and there is also no chromatic polarisation .
All things considered , it is very probable that the anisotropic substance simply repi'esents glass in various stages of devitrification .
Nickel-Iron.\#151 ; This is indicated in the figures by the dotted and cross-shaded areas , and is easily recognisable in the sections in reflected light by its metallic silvery-white lustre .
As seen by comparison of the figures , it occurs in relatively large proportion , but is rather unequally distributed through the stone .
The particles are highly magnetic and vary from very minute specks to such as approach a grain in weight .
One such , for instance , was found on grinding a sample of the stone for chemical analysis .
Larger particles sometimes enclose small grains of olivine , as shown in fig. 2 near the left-hand edge , and there occur also portions in some of the sections in which the iron forms a kind of rude network the meshes of which are occupied by olivine .
found at Makariwa , near Invercargill , New Zealand .
59 Troilite.\#151 ; Rather small , yellow , and bronze-colonred metallic specks observable in the sections in reflected light belong , no doubt , to this mineral , but they are very scarce , and the aggregate percentage indicated by them , as present in the stone , would be very small indeed .
According to the quantity of sulphur obtained in a preliminary chemical examination by Mr. James Allen , a former student of the Royal College of Science , London , the stone should , however , contain an appreciable percentage of troilite ; and it is , therefore , very probable that some of the black grains , without metallic lustre , observable in the sections , belong to it , being partly oxidised and coated overby hydrous ferric oxide .
Dark dull spots on the surfaces of many particles of the nickel-iron , or closely joined therewith , are very likely also due to this process .
Magnetite.\#151 ; The majority of the rather abundant dark grains , some of which show square , others hexagonal , outlines , belong doubtless to this mineral .
The distribution of the grains is very irregular ; in some parts they are abundant , in others rather scarce ; their closest aggregation is generally in the borders they form around chondri of olivine .
Chromite may also be present , but only in very small quantity , as the chemical examination of the stone afforded only a trace of chromium .
Specific Gravity .
The specific gravity of the stone , determined from several small fragments , varied between 3'31 and 3'54 : the variation is , no doubt , due to the unequal distribution of the metallic particles .
Results of the Chemical Examination of the Stone .
A chemical examination has since been undertaken by Mr. L. Fletcher , of the Mineral Department , British Museum .
The examination is not yet finished , bub the results already obtained by him indicate that the percentage mineral composition is approximately expressed by the following numbers:\#151 ; nickel-iron , 1 ; oxides of nickel and iron , 10 ; troilite , 6 ; enstatite , 39 ; olivine , 44 .
The details of the examination will be communicated later .
Description of the Figures .
All the figures are drawn in ordinary light from thin slides cut m different directions from one of the fragments of the stone.* The nickel-iron particles , as seen in reflected light , are indicated by * The small pieces remaining after the slicing were used for my preliminary chemical examination and the determination of the specific gravity .
Prof. G. H. F. Ulrich .
On a Meteoric Stone clotting and cross-shading .
Figs. 1\#151 ; 5 are magnified 25 diameters , fig. 6 is magnified 50 diameters .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; This shows a nearly circular chondrule\#151 ; the finest seen in any of the sections .
It consists throughout of olivine : the upper very fine-granular part is somewhat dull or dusty , the lower coarse-granular part is clear , but some of the cracks are filled with dull-brown ferruginous matter .
Around the circumference of the fine-granular part there is a rim of small clear grains of olivine , the divisional joints of which stand mostly radial ; and around this rim again , also surrounding the coarse-granular part , there is a border of small , black grains of magnetite .
The fine-granular part and its encircling rim of radial grains , as well as most of the grains of the coarse-granular part , have the same optical orientation , Fig. 1 .
as they show pretty uniform simultaneous extinction between crossed nicols .
In one of the grains of the coarse-granular part at the point indicated by a dotted line and the letters ( ) an optic axis is visible in convergent polarised light .
What is seen outside the chondrule consists of an aggregate of larger and smaller grains , and several very fine granular patches of olivine showing aggregate polarisation and enclosing a number of particles of nickel-iron and dark grains , some of which , of dull-bronzy lustre , may be troilite .
The two large particles of nickel-iron near the upper edge of the figure are so connected by and with a dull dark substance as to render it very probable that this substance is also nickel-iron , which , through oxidation , has lost its metallic lustre .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; This shows on the lower margin , a little to the right , part of a large chondrule of enstatite rendered fibrous by fine eccentric striae , and rather densely filled with fine dark dust .
Between crossed nicols on rotation of the stage its polarisation colours are of a low found at MaJcanwa , near I , New Zealand .
61 order , varying between light yellow and blnish-grey , and extinction takes place in an undulating manner , mostly parallel to the fibration .
In reflected light it looks yellowish and opaque .
The remainder of the section consists of olivine , in part finely granulated , in part in larger and smaller grains , sprinkled with particles of nickel-iron and dark grains of iron ore .
At the left-hand margin , nearly enclosing two particles of nickel-iron , is a large grain of olivine which is divided Fio .
2 .
into columnar portions by rudely parallel fractures in the line of which extinction takes place between crossed nicols .
In the finely granulated centre of the figure , scattered larger grains of olivine produce quite a porphyritic appearance which becomes more pronounced through the different optical orientation and the fine polarisation-colours of these larger grains .
The largest particle of nickel-iron encloses a grain of olivine in the centre ; and a deep indentation of another particle of the metal , seen close above the enstatite chondrule , is occupied by an olivine grain showing an optic axis ( oa ) in convergent polarised light .
Some particles of the nickel-iron have narrow , dark margins , produced , no doubt , by oxidation .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Near the centre of the figure is represented a fine granular chondrule of olivine surrounded by a rim of clear grains of this mineral , the divisional joints of which stand generally radial .
The optical orientation of this rim and that of the centre part are different , the latter uniformly extinguishing between crossed nicols #when the rims of the grains are bright , while all the grains become dark simultaneously when the centre part is bright .
Below this chondrule , near the lower right-hand margin , is a rather rudely-radial arrangement of olivine grains around a centre part consisting of four grains of this mineral , but in this case the centre grains extinguish simultaneously with the surrounding ones , thus proving the whole to be a large Prof. G. H. F. Ulrich .
a Meteoric Stone Fig. 3 .
grain cracked in the manner shown .
The oblong grain near the lower margin indicated by a dotted line and the letter e is enstatite .
It shows strongly marked cleavage-cracks oblique to its outlines , polarises in low colours , ranging between light brown and grey , and extinguishes parallel to the cleavage-cracks .
The remainder of the section is constituted of finely and coarsely granulated olivine , polarising aggregately , and enclosing a number of particles of nickel-iron and dark grains , the largest one of which , near the centre of the section , is probably oxidised nickel-iron , as it shows minute metallic spots in reflected light .
A porphyritic structure , similar to that noticed in the previous section , is seen in the finely granulated olivine portion along the left-hand margin , the larger olivine grains , each of independent optical orientation , shining out brilliantly in polarised light from the duller fine-granular part .
In a grain , indicated by ( oa),.near the upper margin , a fine optic axis is disclosed in convergent polarised light .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; 'This shows a large chondrule , mainly composed of olivine , rather rudely defined by a border of particles of nickel-iron and dark grains , most of the former occurring around the left-hand margin .
The portions of this chondrule left clear , i.e. , unshaded , consist of the water-clear , doubly refracting substance , resembling glass .
A large amount of this occurs along the right-hand margin , smaller portions around the left-hand margin , and within the mass of the olivine , and it also fills the large rudely-parallel longitudinal fissures , and some large irregular transverse cracks by which the latter is divided .
Whilst portions of it are perfectly clear between crossed nicols , others are dark ; but on rotation of the stage the extinction travels in an undulating or cloudy manner over the light portions , and those dark before become light .
The contrast between it and the olivine is especially well marked during the rotation , as the latter mineral , though much stained with hydrous ferric oxide , polarises in splendid found at Makariwa , near Invercar , New .
63 Fig. 4 .
colours , and when its extinction takes place\#151 ; which is in the line of the fissures dividing it into columnar bodies\#151 ; the glassy substance in most of the fissures and cracks shows out perfectly clear and bright .
The very finely granular part which bounds the chondrule on the right-hand margin and contains a number of larger grains , is also olivine , judging from the polarisation-colours .
Some of the nickel-iron particles show dark spots and narrow dark rims , due to oxidation of the metal .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; On the upper margin of this is shown part of a large chondrule of enstatite , which is finely fibrous , with the fibre-lines disposed in a fan-like manner .
Around the margin it looks minutely granular and somewhat dusty ; in the centre it is clear .
Between crossed nicols it polarises in shades of yellow and grey , and extinguishes in the clear centre part parallel to the fibre-lines , whilst in the marginal dim part the extinction is cloudy .
The large , finely-dotted patch near the centre of the section consists of a mixture of Fig. 5 .
64 On a Meteoric Stone found in New Zealand .
clear , isotropic glass and granularly devitrified anisotropic glass , and is full of minute , dark grains , probably of iron ore .
The portion below the dotted part , near the edge of the figure , is mostly true glass and free from oxide of iron , bat encloses a few small grains of olivine .
The remainder of the section is occupied by finely and coarsely granulated olivine , strongly stained in places by brown hydrous ferric oxide , and there are also scattered dark grains\#151 ; some rather large\#151 ; in one of which , on the left of the centre of the figure , reflected light reveals numerous fine silvery-white metallic specks of nickel-iron .
This is the only direct evidence of the presence of this metal in the section , but it is very probable that amongst the other large dark grains one or more consist of it to some extent , being rendered dull non-metallic-looking by oxidation .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; This is drawn under twice the magnifying power used for the other figures , in order to show more clearly an occurrence of intermingled isotropic and devitrified anisotropic glass .
The mass extends from the lower margin of the figure between a particle of nickel-iron on the right and an olivine chondrule on the left , upwards through the centre to the large particle of nickel-iron at the upper margin , being wider both at the top and bottom than in the centre .
It is crowded with small , yet well-defined , grains of olivine , but Fio .
6 .
adjoining the lower particle of nickel-iron , and near the upper one , there are irregularly outlined portions quite free , or nearly free , from these grains , in which the true glass can plainly be distinguished from the granularly devitrified material between crossed nicols , on rotation of the stage of the microscope .
Besides this mass of glassy substance , the particles of nickel-iron , and a few black grains , only olivine is represented in the section ; the fine granular chondrule on the left having for the greater part a rim of larger grains , the divisional joints of which stand closely radial .

