I. Note on an Extension of the Comparison of Magnetic Disturbances with Maagnetic Effects inferred from observed Terrestrial Galvanic Currents ; and Discussion of the Magnetic Effects inferred from Galvanic Currents on days of tranquil magnetism .
" By GEORGE B1DDELL AIBY , Astronomer Royal .
Received December 22 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) The author , after referring to his paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1868 on the comparison of Magnetic Disturbances inferred from Galvanic Currents recorded by the Self-registering Galvanometers of the Royal Observatory of Greenwich with the Magnetic Disturbances registered by the Magnetometers , on 17 days , states that he had now undertaken the examination of the whole of the Galvanic Currents recorded during the establishment of the Croydon and Dartford wires ( from 1865 April 1 to 1867 October 24 ) .
The days of observation were divided into three groups , -No .
I containing days of considerable magnetic disturbance , and therein including not only the 17 days above mentioned , but also 36 additional days , No. 2 containing days of moderate disturbance , of which no further use was made , and No. 3 containing the days of tranquil magnetism .
The comparisons of the additional 36 disturbed days were made in the same manner as those of the preceding 17 days , and the inferences were the same .
The results were shown in the same manner , by comparison of curves , which were exhibited to the Society .
The points most worthy of notice are , that the general agreement of the strong irregularities , Galvanic and Magnetic , is very close , that the galvanic irregularities usually precede the magnetic , in time , and that the northerly magnetic force appears to be increased .
The author remarks that no records appeared open to doubt as regards instrumental error , except those of western declination ; and to remove this he had compared the Greenwich Curves with the Kew Curves , and had found them absolutely identical .
The author then proceeds with the discussion of the Galvanic CurrentCurves on days of tranquil magnetism , not by way of comparison with the magnetic curves , but for independent examination of the galvanic laws .
The method was explained of measuring the ordinates and connecting the measures into expressions for magnetic action , at every hour , and group184 On Magnetic Disturbances .
[ Feb. 3 , ing the measures at the same nominal hour by months , and taking their monthly means for each hour .
As these exhibited sensible discordance , they were smoothed by taking the means of adjacent numbers , taking the means of the adjacent numbers of the new series , and so on , repeating the operation six times .
The author explains the theory of this process , and the way in which it tends to degrade the periodical terms of higher orders .
He then explains an easy method of resolving the numbers so smoothed into periodical terms recurring once in the day , twice in the day , thrice in the day , &amp;c. , and applies the method to the numbers for every month .
When these quantities ( which from month to month are perfectly independent ) are brought together in tables , they present such an agreement , with gradual change accompanying the change of seasons , as leaves no doubt on their representation of a real law of the diurnal changes of the galvanic currents .
They also show the existence of a constant turn towards the north ( which explains the apparent increase of force to the north observed in the results for days of great disturbance ) , and a still larger force towards the west ( which also is well marked on the days of great disturbance ) .
No light is obtained on the origin of these terms , but they appear to be probably pure galvanic accidents , depending on the nature of the earth-connexions .
The author then exhibits in curves the diurnal inequalities of magnetism which the galvanic currents must produce .
The form generally consists of two parallel lobes , making with the magnetic meridian an angle of nearly 60 ?
from the north towards the west .
The greatest east-andwest difference of ordinates , in the month of April , is 0'00044 of Total Horizontal Magnetic Force ; it corresponds , in the hours to which those ordinates relate , nearly with the Ordinary Diurnal Inequality .
But it is much smaller than the ordinary diurnal inequality , and the daily law of the galvano-magnetic inequality differs greatly from that of diurnal inequality .
For the greater part , therefore , of diurnal inequality the cause is yet to be found .

