2 .
" On the Development of the Retina and Optic , Nerve , and of the Membranous Labyrinth and Auditory Nerve .
" By Henry Gray , Esq. , M.R.C.S. Communicated by William Bowman , Esq. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The author has divided the observations contained in this paper into two parts : the first of which treats of " The Development of the Retina and Optic Nerve ; the second , of the Development of the Membranous Labyrinth and Auditory Nerve .
" In the observations on the development of the retina , which have been made on the embryo of the chick , the author demonstrates its mode of evolution , and also the mode of development of the various layers of which this membrane is formed .
They commence at the early period of the thirty-third hour of incubation , at which time the cephalic extremity of the embryo presents a slight protrusion of its walls , which by the thirty-sixth hour is very considerably increased , having become more elongated and protruded outwards , presenting a somewhat dilated end , and being somewhat constricted at its connection with the anterior cerebral cell from which it arises .
This is the first indication of the development of this membrane .
At the forty-sixth hour this protrusion ( which the author calls the optic vesicle ) was still more distinct , and the cavity in the cerebral cell , from the wall of which it arises , was well seen , and it was observed to communicate with the cavity of the optic vesicle which was also hollow .
This description of the mode of development of the retina the author considers as confirmatory of the observations made by Baer , but not in accordance with that given by Wagner or Huschke .
The author then proceeds to detail very minutely the consecutive stages of the development of the retina and parts in immediate connection with it , until the seventh day , when he states that on making a section of the eye , it was separated from the other tunics as a perfectly distinct layer .
The optic nerves were also now completely formed , being united to form the chiasma , and passed inwards in the direction of the under surface of the corpora quadrigemina .
The author in the next place proceeds to consider the development of the various layers of the retinal membrane , a point which appears not to have been previously noticed by any physiologist .
This membrane on the eighth day of incubation can be seen , by the naked eye , distinct from the other tunics .
Its choroidal surface is composed of a mass of globular nuclei about the size of the red corpuscles of the blood , which form at this period about one-half the entire thickness of the retina , the deeper surface consisting of some fine granular matter and a mass of pale and delicate nucleated cells similar to those found surrounding the fibrous lamina in the normal structure of the membrane .
The " Membrana Jacobi " is first observed on the thirteenth day as a fine pale granular stratum which covers in the globular nuclei already described .
In this , at about the fifteenth day , some brilliant yellowish granules are imbedded ; they vary in size from the 5000th to the 8000th of an inch , and around them a delicate cell-wall is traced ; they soon acquire an oval shape ; then become more elongated ; and about the eighteenth day the almost perfect rods are formed .
They are now disposed in an imbricated manner , and their nuclei , which are of a bright yellow colour , are placed generally at the apex , but sometimes in the middle of the rods .
On the twentyfirst day this membrane is similar to what is seen in the full-grown bird .
The first trace of the ' fibrous lamina " is seen between the fourteenth and fifteenth days , as a fine pale granular lamina marked by 2 numerous faint longitudinal strire .
On the eighteenth day this membrane when separated from the other layers is seen composed of numerous fibrillated meshes , in which are deposited the nucleated vesicles which are formed as early as the eighth day .
From these observations it is seen that the retina is formed as a protrusion from the most anterior cerebral cell , being hollow and communicating with its cavity ; that it subsequently assumes a pyriform shape , presenting a dilated end , the future retina , and a tubular portion , the optic nerve .
As the tubular portion becomes solidified so as to form the optic nerve , then no communication can be traced between the optic vesicle and the cavity from which it is an offset .
By degrees the spherical end of the protrusion is absorbed , and the retina , being now fully formed , becomes attached to the margin of the lens .
The optic nerve is then traced to be connected not only with the anterior cerebral cell , but , uniting with its fellow at the under surface of the optic lobes , is seen partly to terminate in those bodies .
The deductions from these observations may be thus briefly stated:1st .
They confirm the observations on the structure of the retina made by Bowman , who has shown that the essential part of this membrane is analogous to the cineritious matter of the brain , and is composed like it of a fibrous mesh intermingled with vesicles of grey matter , being , in fact , a portion of the cerebrum pushed outwards and connected with the brain by its appropriate commissure , the optic nerve .
The mode of development of this membrane would show this to be the correct view of the structure of this essential part of the retinal expansion , and at the same time disprove the statements of HIenle , who believed it to be more analogous to epithelium .
2nd .
The origin of the optic vesicle from the anterior cerebral cell , would show the incorrectness of the opinion of those anatomists who have stated that none of the fibres of the optic nerve could be traced to the optic thalami .
'he thalami being developed from the same centre from whence these vesicles arise , would render it exceedingly probable that the optic nerves had some connection with those bodies .
The second part of the paper describes the development of the membranous labyrinth and auditory nerve .
The essential part of the auditory apparatus , viz. the membranous labyrinth , consists , like the retina , of a membranous lamina formed of the termiinal axes cylinders of the nerve tubules in intimate connection with a layer of closely-set nucleated cells ; like it also , it may be regarded as a portion of the brain protruded outwards , and connected with an appropriate apparatus which receives and transnits its peculiar impressions ; its mode of development also shows a striking analogy between it and the retinal expansion .
At the fiftieth hour of incubation , there is seen on either side of the medulla oblongata , ( which is not closed in above and presents an open shallow cavity , ) the first rudiment of the auditory sac , in the form of a small circular-shaped protruded vesicle , communicating with the ventricular cavity from the lateral wall of which it is an offset .
The vesicle was hollow , clear and pellucid , and of a flattened circular form .
At the fifty-sixth hour it had increased in size and presented a pear-shaped figure ; so that now the narrow contracted tubular portion appeared the first stage in the development of the auditory nerve ; the dilated portion , the auditory sac or rudimentary vestibule ; and the cavity still existing in its interior and communicating with the ventricular cavity from which it arises , by means of the tubular prolongation , the auditory nerve .
The aperture of communication soon becomes smaller and more contracted , and this increases as the separation between the auditory vesicle and its parent-cell takes place .
At the sixty-fifth hour , besides a great increase in the size of the ear-bulb , the auditory nerve has become more distinctly formied , and is quite solidified , so that no communication can now be traced between the ventricular cavity and the vestibular sac .
-It is in this stage of the development of the auditory apparatus that a great similarity is to be observed between it and the normal condition of the same part in some of the lower animals .
There are , in fact , now formed the two elementary portions of the auditory apparatus , the auditory nerve and the simple vestibular sac .
Such is the simple condition of the organ in the Crustacea and .
Cephalopod Mollusks .
At the seventy-second hour , the vestibular sac has lost its oval form and presents a contraction around its entire circumference .
This is the first indication of the separation of the vestibule from the membranous semicircular canals which are ultimately formed from the terminal portion of the vesicle .
The minute examination of the development of these structures , of which a consecutive detail is given , leads the author to remark on the almost precise similarity in structure of the membranous labyrinth to the retina in its various stages of development , for it consists like it of a delicate fibrous mesh in the areolie of which is deposited granular matter and numlerous nucleated cells , its outer surface being composed of globular-shaped nuclei arranged similar to those covering the outer surface of the retina at an early period of its development .
From this description a marked similarity may be observed between the origin of this membrane and that of the retina .
In both cases they arise as a protruded portion of the cerebral mass , being hollow and communicating with the cavity of the parent-cell .
In process of time , a gradual separation takes place between them and the parts from whence they arise .
They then assume a pyriform shape , but still communicate with the cerebral cavity .
As , however , the nerves become solidified and the separation between them is more fully effected , then no communication can be traced between the two cavities .

