On Parieasaurus bombidens ( Owen ) .
1887 .
] Observations , \amp ; c. ( continued ) .
Die Osterreichische Polarstation Jan Mayen .
Beobachtungs-Ergebnisse .
Herausg .
von der Kaiserl .
Akad .
der Wissen-scbaften .
Band II .
Abtb .
2 .
4to .
Wien [ 1887 ] .
The Academy .
London :\#151 ; Colonial and Indian Exhibition , 1886 .
Reports on the Colonial Sections .
8vo .
London 1887 .
The Society of Arts .
Madrid:\#151 ; Real Observatorio .
Anuario .
Ano III .
8vo .
Madrid 1862 .
Ano VII .
8vo .
Madrid 1865 .
The Observatory .
Washington:\#151 ; Office of Comptroller of the Cnrreney .
Report .
1886 .
8vo .
Washington .
The Comptroller .
U. S. Geological Survey .
Mineral Resources of the United States , 1885 .
8vo .
Washington 1886 .
The Survey .
May12 , 1887 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Croonian Lecture was delivered:\#151 ; CROONIAN Lecture.\#151 ; " On Parieasaurus bombidens ( Owen ) , and the Significance of its Affinities to Amphibians , Reptiles , and Mammals .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. , Professor of Geography in King 's College , London .
Received April 21 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The author gives a short account of the literature of Parieasaurus , and describes a skeleton in the British Museum , received from the Karoo deposits of South Africa in 1878 .
The head has the external bones pitted and grooved as in Labyrin-thodonts and Crocodiles , and mucus canals are developed between the nares and orbits such as characterise Labyrinthodontia .
The palate , as evidenced by Parieasaurus serridens ( Owen ) , is essentially Anomodont in structure .
The dentition , with some distinctive features , approximates to that of Dinosaurs and Crocodiles , but though the teeth are in sockets they are cemented to the jaw by bone .
338 Prof. H. G. Seeley .
[ May l2 , The suture between the pre-maxillary and maxillary bones is over lapped by a triangular sub-nasal bone , and the pre-maxillaries are apparently small , as in Amphibians .
The maxillary bone has a row of large supra-dental foramina .
The malar bone is excluded from the alveolar border of the jaw .
Behind the orbits the bones which form the cheeks are arranged as in Labyrinthodonts , and completely cover the quadrate bone as in Labyrinthodontia and Ichthyopterygia .
They include the post-orbital , post-frontal , squamosal , supra-temporal and quadrato-jugal , which is of large size .
The roof bones of the head are the nasal bones , pre-frontals , ( ?
) the supra-orbital , frontals parietals , ( ?
) supra-occipital , and epiotic .
The occipital condyle , though imperfectly preserved , was single and formed by one bone , which is named basi-occipital , and regarded as being an inter-central ossification of the vertebral column , which has been received between the exoccipital bones of the Labyrinthodont skull , but which has not penetrated so deeply between them as in typical Anomodonts .
The nearest approach to this condition of the occipital condyle is seen in Ichthyosaurus .
The composite character of the occipital condyle in Anomodontia , Chelonia , Rhynchocephalia , Grocodilia , Sauropterygia , Aves , \amp ; c. , is accordingly regarded as due to the preservation of the original Labyrinthodont exoccipital elements in union with the new basi-occipital element .
And the mammalian return to articulation of the skull by exoccipital condyles is attributed to expansion of the brain which caused the basi-occipital bone to enter into the floor of the brain case .
The structure of the palate is described , and shown to resemble that Anomodonts , certain Labyrinthodonts , and the embryonic forms of existing Amphibia in which the para-sphenoid has not been ossified .
The lower jaw encloses a long chamber which extends beneath the teeth as in Labyrinthodonts .
The dentition is described , and is chiefly remarkable for the uniform character of the teeth , for their distinctive shape , mode of union with the jaw , and replacement by successional teeth , which are developed as in Ichthyosaurs .
The skull is compared with the skulls of the types of ( Owen ) and P. bombidens ( Owen ) ; and the author concludes that there is no satisfactory dental character to distinguish the described species from each other , and rests their differentiation upon the forms , proportions , and structure of the head .
Comparison is then made of the cranial characters in which Parieasaurus resembles other animals , so as to show how far the Labyrinthodont characters are common to Fossil Reptilia , and how far the supposed Dinosaurian characters may be otherwise regarded .
1887.J OnParieasaurus bombidens { Owen)339 The vertebral column comprises 29 vertebrae , of which 18 are pre-eacral , 2 sacral , and 9 caudal , though a few caudal vertebrae may possibly be missing .
Crescentic intervertebral wedge-bones are developed between most of the vertebrae .
The ribs all articulate by double heads .
In the cervical region both facets are on the centrum , and the ribs have long forks for the head and tubercle , which are of a Crocodilian character .
The neural arch is depressed and expanded , and the neural canal small .
The centrum is comparatively long ; and the cervical vertebras pass into the dorsal series in the same way as in Plesiosaurs .
The dorsal vertebrae are nine in number .
The parapophyses are somewhat elongated ; and the diapophysis forms a transverse process which is only separated from the post-zygapophysial ridge by a notch .
The neural spine is a short inverted cone nearly as wide at the summit as it .is high .
The neural arch is nearly three times as wide as the centrum is long .
The dorsal ribs are in natural contact with the vertebrre ; they are strong , expanded vertically at the proximal ends , and directed horizontally outward before they curve backward .
In the last dorsal the parapophysis is very small .
The ribs closely resemble those of Crocodiles and Labyrinthodonts .
There is one lumbar vertebra with long transverse processes .
Two vertebrae are anchylosed together in the sacral region , but the second does not differ in form from the early caudal , and the pelvis is supported by the first vertebra of the sacrum .
The sacral rib has a massive development so as to extend along* much of the length of the ilium : this rib is compared to that of the great Salamanders .
The same mode of support for the pelvis is found among the Anomodontia .
The ilium has a mammalian form and position , lying almost entirely in advance of the acetabulum ; but there is no close correspondence in form with any mammalian genus .
The caudal vertebrae rapidly diminish in size , and show no trace of a notochordal condition .
The neural arch is reduced in width .
Small caudal ribs were developed .
The form of the neural spine in the vertebral column is suggestive of the recent Japanese Salamander , but as a whole the vertebral column has nothing in common with existing Amphibians .
The interclavicle and clavicles form air anterior bow , like that seen in Nothosaurians , toward which the clavicular arch of the Ich-thyosaurian genus Ophthalmosaurus approximates in the mode of union of the bones .
The interclavicle is a symmetrical / \-shaped bone with its limbs diverging , and directed backward .
The scapular arch is very massive , and appears to include coracoid and scapula , r The only remains of dorsal armour preserved consist of relatively small and scattered bony scutes .
340 Prof. H. G. Seeley .
[ May 12 There is no evidence of limb-bones .
The other remains which have been attributed to Parieasaurus are referred by the author to a new genus named Phocasaurus .
This is founded upon the ilium originally attributed to Parieasaurus , and the bones hitherto regarded as the anchylosed scapula and coracoid , are now regarded as the anchylosed pubis and ischium of the same individual animal to which the ilium belongs .
The ilium is intermediate between that of an Ornithosaur and the ilium of a seal .
The further detailed discussion of Phocasaurus is reserved .
One ilium attributed to Parieasaurus is referred to Dicynodon .
Parieasaurus is placed in the sub-order Parieasauria , which is grouped under the Anomodontia .
On comparison of Parieasaurus with reputed Dinosaurs from South Africa , it is shown that although the teeth of Anthodon resemble those of Acanthopholis , the bones of the post-orbital region of the skull are arranged upon the Labyrinth odont plan which characterises Parieasaurus .
There is no evidence of the affinities of Tapinoce-phalus except the sections of the teeth , but since they are hollow and implanted as in Parieasaurus , it is probable that that genus also is not Dinosaurian .
The only Dinosaurs known from South Africa are the genera Orosaurus and Euskelesaurus described by Professor Huxley ip 1866 .
Concerning the affinities of Parieasaurus , the author interprets the blending of Labyrinthodont and Reptilian characters on the hypothesis that Parieasaurus exhibits a transition from the Amphibia to the Reptilia .
The animal is regarded as technically a reptile ; but as showing both in the skull and vertebral column characters which are typically Labyrinthodont , though they are for the most part unknown among existing Amphibians .
The Reptile order to which the resemblances come closest is the Anomodontia .
And since the resemblance in the sacrum and pelvis amounts to absolute coincidence in plan , and in the palate to close approximation , it is inferred that the cranial differences which separate Parieasaurus from the Anomodonts are no more important than those which distinguish the skull of a turtle from the skull of a tortoise ; and that with the acquisition of the single basi-occipital condyle there came about a gradual loss of the distinctive Labyrinthodont characters .
But the Labyrinthodontia is a large group including many sub-orders , some of which approximate to living Urodeles , others to living Reptilia , and yet others to fossil Reptilia .
It is urged that the Ichthyopterygia form the most primitive order , derivative from the Labyrinthodont group , having lost the epiotic bones but retaining the post-orbital and supra-temporal with the covered quadrate bone ; that the form of vertebra in Ichthyosaurus with its articular tubercles for the rib , reproduces the vertebra of Eosaurus and Anthracosaurus and other Labyrinthodonts , while the dorsal ribs 1887 .
] On Parieasaurus bombidens ( Given ) .
341 in the two groups are identical .
Similarly from the structure of Parieasaurus and its affinities to Mesosaurus , it is argued that the Nothosauria and Plesiosauria are closely related ; and since they have the long bones ossified as in existing Amphibians , with the biconcave vertebras , double-headed cervical ribs on the centrum ( in many genera ) , with dorsal ribs rising to the neural arch , and much in common in the clavicular and pelvic arches , it is held to be a legitimate inference-that both the Nothosauria and Plesiosauria have undergone , with the acquisition of the basi-occipital bone , a loss of Labyrinthodont characters , which has removed from the skull every technical trace of the group from which both of those orders are shown to have been derived , , by the Amphibian and Labyrinthodont characters which they have preserved in other parts of the skeleton .
Similarly it is concluded that the Crocodilia derive their typical characters from the Labyrinthodontia .
The crocodilian skull preserves the anterior position of the nares and small size of the pre-maxillary bones .
The temporal fossae are substantially similar , and the unossified condition of the post-orbital membrane in crocodiles accounts for the absence of the postorbital and supra-temporal bones between the post-frontal and squamosal bones above , and the jugal and quadrato-jugal bones below .
While if those ossifications were developed in the vacuity behind the eye the quadrate would be completely hidden , and the skull would be externally as Labyrinthodont as that of Ichthyosaurus .
The number of pre-sacral vertebrae in crocodiles shows no great divergence from Parieasaurus ; while the mode of articulation of the dorsal ribs in Parieasaurus , although not quite crocodilian , make a nearer approach to the crocodilian type than is seen among other Reptilia , and is so-similar as to justify the conclusion which the skull suggests\#151 ; that Crocodilia have been modified from a Labyrinthodont ancestry .
If this conclusion is admitted for the Crocodilia , it follows for the-Dinosauria also , since that group is essentially a parallel variation from the crocodilian type .
The Proterosauria are already known to show many Labyrinthodont characters , combined with those of reptiles and mammals ; and the similar Ornithosaurian pelvis is essentially a variation from that of the Anomodont , and would thus be an inheritance of structures which were of Labyrinthodont origin .
Hence the Reptilia are to be regarded as related to each other as descendants from a common and varied ancestral type ; and , therefore , the orders should be grouped in parallel rather than vertical or successive relation to each other .
The mammalian characters of the pelvis and sacrum of Parieasaurus and the other Anomodonts are quite as striking as the Avian characters of certain Dinosaurs , and of the same kind of importance as evidence of affinity .
If the community of structure of Iguano-donts and Birds is held to establish a common origin for both groups , Presents .
[ May 12 , then the community of structure with mammals which appears in the pelvis in Parieasaurus , and is variously developed in other parts of the skeleton , in many allied genera of Anomodontia and Theriodontia , must similarly be held to establish a common origin for these mammalian and reptilian structures by inheritance from amphibian ancestors .
The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May 26th .
Presents , May 12 , 1887 .
Transactions .
Christiania:\#151 ; Videnskabs-Selskab .
Forhandlinger .
Aar 1886 .
8vo .
Christiania1887 .
The Society Gottingen :\#151 ; Konigl .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Abhand-lungen .
Band XXXIII .
4to .
Gottingen 1886 ; Nachrichten .
Jahr 1886 .
Nro .
1-20 .
8vo .
Gottingen 1886 .
The Society .
London:\#151 ; Entomological Society .
Transactions .
1887 .
Part 1 .
8vo .
London .
The Society .
Institution of Mechanical Engineers .
Proceedings , 1887 .
No. 1 .
8vo .
London .
The Institution .
Odontological Society .
Transactions .
Yol .
XIX .
No. 6 .
8vo .
London 1887 .
The Society .
Royal Asiatic Society .
Journal .
Yol .
XIX .
Part 2 .
8vo .
London 1887 .
The Society .
Royal Institution .
Proceedings .
Yol .
XI .
Part 3 .
8vo .
London 1887 ; The Work of the Imperial Institute .
Address by Sir E. Abel , F.R.S. 8vo .
London 1887 ; List of Members , 1886 .
8vo .
London .
The Institution .
Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society .
Proceedings .
Yol .
II .
No. 5 .
8vo .
London 1887 ; President 's Address , 1887 .
8vo .
London ; Catalogue of the Library .
Suppl. Y. 8vo .
London 1887 .
" The Society .
Vienna:\#151 ; Anthropologische Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen .
Band XYI .
Hefte 3-4 .
4to .
Wien 1886 .
The Society .
Boehmer ( G. H. ) Norsk Naval Architecture .
8vo .
[ Washington ] 1887 .
The Author .
Bowman ( F. H. ) Colonial and Indian Exhibition Reports .
Wools .
8vo .
[ London ] 1887 .
The Author .
Brunton ( T. Lauder ) , F.R.S. A Text Book of Pharmacology , Therapeutics , and Materia Medica .
Third Edition .
8vo .
London 1887 .
The Author .

