151 On the Nutritive Conditions Determining the Growth of certain Fresh-water and Soil Protista .
By H. G. Thornton ( New College ) and Geoffrey Smith , Fellow of New College , Oxford .
( Communicated by Prof. G. C. Bourne , F.R.S. Received April 20 , \#151 ; Read May 14 , 1914 .
) [ Plate 12 .
] It is well known that in ponds and lakes cycles of development occur , in which various kinds of animals and plants replace one another in succession , but the conditions are usually so complex that the succession rarely repeats itself with regularity from year to year , and it is impossible to assign , with any certainty , the successive phases to their determining causes .
The same kind of cyclical development occurs in artificially made organic infusions , where bacteria , algae , flagellates and ciliates replace one another in irregular sequence .
The object of this paper is to indicate certain lines of experiment upon which it may be possible to attack this problem .
Woodruff has contributed some data for studying the underlying causes of these successive events , and the work of numerous authors has added to our knowledge of the factors regulating the growth of algae and diatoms .
Amongst these may be mentioned the work of Oswald Richter* on the nutrition of fresh-water algae , and that of Miquel , j* and more recently of Allen and Nelson , j on the culture of diatoms .
The work of these authors tends to show that , even in the case of algae and diatoms in which nutrition appears to be holophytic , the presence of some organic matter in the culture medium is of great assistance to the growth of the organisms .
The experiments with Euglena viridis were carried out with the object of investigating the nature of this organic matter which exerts a beneficial influence on the growth of apparently holophytic protista .
The method employed is to use a culture medium containing a constant proportion of the inorganic salts necessary for the nourishment of a holophytic organism , and to supply the organic matter in the form of * Oswald Richter , 'Die Ernahrung der Algen , ' 1911 .
t Miquel , 'Le Diatomiste , ' 1892 .
J E. J. Allen and E. W. Nelson , " On the Artificial Culture of Marine Plankton Organisms , " ' Journ. Marine Biol. Assoc. , ' vol. 8 , No. 5 , 1910 .
Messrs. H. G. Thornton and G. Smith .
chemically pure organic compounds instead of the indefinite composition of an organic infusion .
The method employed in the cultures of Euglena viridis has also been used to study the minute bacterial feeding flagellates living in the soil .
Experiments with Euglena viridis .
In culture experiments with Euglena , Zumstein* found that a much improved growth could be obtained if a little organic matter was added to the culture medium .
By increasing the amount of organic matter in the medium , he found that Euglena gracilis could be induced to change its mode of nutrition , living solely as a saprophyte .
Under these conditions the Euglena passed into an Astasia-like form , the chlorophyll disappearing and leaving only the colourless leucoplasts .
When living saprophytically , the organism could thrive in the dark as well as in the light .
Zumstein found that the green coloration was reassumed if the Astasia form was brought back into a solution containing only a small amount of organic matter and kept in the light .
Trebouxf was able to grow Euglena gracilis in solutions containing citric acid , but found that Euglena viridis could not be grown under these conditions .
Thus , there appears to be a marked physiological difference between these two species of Euglena , a fact which is emphasised by the earlier work of KlawkineJ on Euglena viridis .
His experiments showed that it was impossible to make Euglena viridis thrive well in the dark .
When kept in the dark in a medium containing organic matter , the Euglense remained alive , but did not lose their chlorophyll or show a perceptible increase .
Our experiments with this species of Euglena have confirmed the results obtained by Klawkine , and show that Euglena viridis is not able to thrive in the absence of light , even when placed in the optimal culture medium and in the presence of suitable organic matter .
It is thus evident that Euglena viridis is a more essentially holophytic organism than Euglena gracilis , a fact which tends to simplify the issue when we come to study the physiology of its nutrition .
By appropriate methods , a culture of Euglena viridis has been kept in active growth in test-tubes by inoculation from tube to tube , for a period of about two years .
* H. Zumstein , " Morphologie und Physiologie der Euglena , " ' Pringsheim s Jahrbucher f. wise .
Botanik , ' vol. 34 , p. 419 ( 1899 ) .
+ O. Treboux , " Organische Sauren'als Kolilenstoffquelle bei Algen , ' 'Ber .
d. D. B. Ges .
, ' vol. 23 , p. 432 ( 1905 ) .
" 9 , , ... " + w. Klawkine , " Recherches biologiques sir VAstasia ocellata et 1 Euglena vinats , ' Ann. des Sci. Not .
, Zool. , ' s6rie 6 , vol. 19 , and eerie 7 , vol. 1 .
On the Growth of certain Fresli-water and Soil Protista .
153 The medium used for growing these organisms has been a mixture of inorganic salts given by Miquel in his paper on the growth of diatoms.* To this medium , which contains all the elements necessary for the growth of a green plant , it has been found necessary to add some organic material in order to obtain an active growth of the organism .
The composition of Miquel 's fluid is as follows:\#151 ; Solution A. Solution B. MgS04 10 grs. Sodium phosphate 4 grs. NaCl .
io " Calcium chloride 4 " Sodium sulphate .
5 " Hydrochloric acid 2 c.c. Ammonium nitrate . .
; i " Perchloride of iron , sat. sol .
2 " Potassium nitrate .
2 " Water CO O Sodium nitrate .
2 " Potassium bromide . . .
0*2 " Potassium iodide . .
oi " Water .
100 " To make up the fluid , 40 c.c. of solution A and 10 c.c. of solution B are added to 500 c.c. of tap water , and the mixture is filtered .
It was necessary at first to determine the strength of Miquel 's fluid best adapted for growing the Euglena .
In a number of preliminary experiments it was found that the best growth could be obtained when 4 c.c. of the above Miquel solution were added to 6 c.c. of tap water , the organic matter being supplied by 1 c.c. of hay infusion .
The experiment was performed by inoculating the tubes with a very small amount of the stock culture , introduced by means of a capillary pipette .
The tubes were kept in diffuse daylight at room temperature ; attempts to hasten the growth by incubation at 75-80 ' F , were unsuccessful , the Euglena dying , or at any rate failing to flourish at this temperature .
In the absence of any organic infusion , the Euglena either failed to develop or else multiplied very slowly , and the fluid in the tube never became crowded with free-swimming organisms so as to appear opaque and green .
The addition of 1 or \c.c .
of hay infusion , on the other hand , caused a thick growth which , after the lapse of 10-14 days , filled the tube with myriads of free-swimming individuals , giving a totally different appearance to the condition seen in the tubes to which no organic matter had been added .
It was found , however , that the efficacy of the hay infusion varied very greatly according to the length of time during which bacterial growth had continued in it .
Thus , a fresh hay infusion , after being sterilised , was found * Dr. Miquel , ' Le Diatomiste , ' No. 9 , June , 1892 .
Messrs. H. G. Thornton and G. Smith .
to have a much feebler effect in stimulating growth than an infusion which had been kept for some weeks and in which bacteria had been allowed to multiply before it was sterilised .
On the other hand , the same infusion , after being left for several months , lost much of its previous efficacy .
Similar results were obtained with other vegetable infusions .
A typical experiment , showing the effect of the various dilutions of Miquel solution , and of the presence and absence of organic matter in the medium , may be seen in Table I. Table I.\#151 ; Cultures inoculated on April 21 .
Tube No. Composition of Medium .
Growth on April 29 .
Growth on May 2L .
1 10 c.c. Miquel solution None None 2 8 c.o. \#187 ; 99 4 2 c.c. distilled H20 .
99 99 3 6 c.c. 99 99 + 4 c.c. 99 99 99 99 4 4 c.c. 9* 99 4 6 c.c. 99 99 99 99 6 2 c.c. 99 99 4 8 c.c. 99 99 99 99 6 10 c.c. 99 99 \ !
2 d 99 99 7 8 c.c. 99 99 4 2 c.c. 99 99 " 'T.S 99 9* 8 6 c.c. 99 99 + 4 c.c. 99 99 1 1 99 99 9 4 c.c. 99 99 4 6 c.c. 99 99 " !
\ S-S !
1 Slight growth 99 10 2 c.c. 99 99 4 8 c.c. 99 99 y i + i L 99 99 11 8 c.c. 99 + 2 c.c. tap water None 99 12 6 c.c. 99 + 4 c.c. 99 99 99 13 4 c.c. 99 99 4 6 c.c. 99 Slight growth 99 14 2 c.c. jy 99 4-8 c.c. # 99 99 99 15 8 c.c. 4 2 c.c. 99 1 c3* 1 r None 99 16 6 c.c. 4 4 c.c. 99 . .
i 1 ** S Slight growth 9i 17 4 c.c. 4 6 c.c. 99 ... XS'Ii Very strong Yery strong 1 .H'S [ growth growth 18 2 c.c. 99 99 4 8 c.c. 99 \#166 ; J 1 +* " -1 i Strong growth Good growth These experiments show that the best growth was obtained in tube No. 17 , in which the culture medium consisted of 4 c.c. Miquel solution + 6 c.c. tap water , to which 1 c.c. hay infusion was added ; while in those tubes to which no organic matter was added , growth was either totally absent , or else a slight growth was observed in those tubes in which the proportions of Miquel and tap water approached the optimum .
It must be noted that when tap water is replaced by distilled water , the growth is either prevented altogether or else is very slight , even when the necessary elements for growth are given in the Miquel and organic matter .
This can be seen in Table I in tubes Nos. 7-10 , as compared with tubes Nos. 15-18 .
A similar result was noticed when cultures were made with Miquel fluid that had been made up with distilled water instead of tap water .
The improved growth in tap water might be due either to the On the Growth of certain Fresh-water and Soil Protista .
155 difference in osmotic pressure or to the influence of some constituent , organic or inorganic , in the tap water .
An attempt was made to discover which of these was the determining influence .
An artificial tap water was made up from an analysis of Thames water furnished us by Mr. W. W. Fisher .
This contained :\#151 ; Parts per 100,000 .
NaCl ... ... ... ... .
2-8 NaN03 ... ... ... ... 0*7 MgS04 ... ... ... ... 1-4 CaS04 ... ... ... . .
2-8 CaC03 ... ... ... .
22-3 Si02 ... ... ... ... 1*0 Total solids ... ... . .
3 TO Somewhat conflicting results were obtained when this artificial Thames water was used to replace natural tap water : on the whole the growth obtained was not so good as when natural tap water was employed , but since it was possible to obtain quite good growths with the artificial medium , it must be concluded that the superiority of the media containing tap water is due to some slight alteration in the proportions of the inorganic constituents .
Having determined the optimum conditions for growth as far as the inorganic constituents are concerned , namely , 4 c.c. of Miquel solution + 6 c.c. natural tap water , the question of the nature of the organic matter used by the Euglena was then taken up .
In the experiments given below , the ordinary method of inoculation by means of a capillary pipette was employed , and , in addition , another method which gives more rapid results .
In this second method , an old culture tube , in which Euglena has been growing for a long period , is taken .
In such a tube there is a ring of encysted Euglena adhering to the glass at the surface of the liquid .
The liquid is poured away and the encysted Euglena , which is very firmly attached , may then be thoroughly washed with tap and distilled water .
In this way a practically pure culture of Euglena may be obtained on adding the appropriate culture medium , though in no case has it been found possible to obtain a sterile culture free from bacterial contamination .
The following chemically pure substances were added to the " optimal Miquel " mixture and the tubes inoculated with Euglena , with the results subjoined .
VOL. LXXXVIII.\#151 ; B. N Messrs. H. G. Thornton and G. Smith .
1 .
Dextrose-\#151 ; In media , in which 0*5-1 c.c. of a 1-per-cent , solution of dextrose was added to 10 c.c. of the " optimal Miquel " solution , no growth of Euglena was observed , but in all cases there was a considerable growth of fungus , probably derived from spores from the stock tube of Euglena .
It is probable that the great development of the fungus inhibited the growth of the Euglena , since a slight growth in the optimal Miquel solution was expected .
2/ Cane Sugar\#151 ; The addition of 0*5-1 c.c. of a 1-per-cent , solution of this substance to 10 c.c. of the " optimal Miquel " solution did not inhibit the growth of the Euglena to the same extent as the dextrose , but only rarely and after a long period did any noticeable growth appear .
The growth of fungus in these tubes was either absent or very slight .
3 .
Tartaric Acid\#151 ; The addition of 1 c.c. of a 1-per-cent , solution had a purely negative effect , no growth of Euglena but a strong growth of fungus being observed .
It is evident from these results that the stimulating element in the organic infusion is not in the nature of a carbohydrate .
4 .
Peptone\#151 ; The addition of 1 c.c. of a 1-per-cent , solution of peptone to the medium invariably gave rise to a very strong bacterial growth , the bacteria being no doubt introduced with the Euglena , on inoculation .
Under these conditions the Euglena scarcely developed at all , although it is not entirely killed off , a slight ring appearing at the top of the fluid .
5 .
Amido-acids*\#151 ; Tyrosin.\#151 ; As this compound is very insoluble in water , a saturated solution was made up in distilled water .
The saturated solution when cold contains the salt in the proportion of 1 in 2400 of water .
In the earlier experiments 1 or 2 c.c. of the above solution were added to 10 c.c. of the " optimal Miquel " mixture .
A very strong growth was obtained in this medium , indeed superior to that obtained by means of the addition of a natural organic infusion .
The marked difference in the growth of the Euglena in a tube containing this minute trace of tyrosin ( 1 :24,000 ) as compared with a culture in a medium free from organic matter , may be seen in the photograph ( fig. 1 ) .
* A number of experiments have been made by Loew , Bokorny , and others on the growth of algae in amido and fatty acids .
A full literature of this work will be found in Oswald Richter 's 'Die Ernahrung der Algen , ' 1911 .
On the Growth of certain Fresh-water and Soil Protista .
157 In cultures containing 1-2 c.c. of the tyrosin solution , it was found that after a period of about six to eight weeks the Euglena ceased its active growth and became encysted upon the walls of the tube and especially round the surface , for example , a tube containing 4 c.c. Miquel solution , 6 c.c. tap water , and 1 c.c. tyrosin solution , was inoculated with Euglena on November 25 .
By December 3 there was a noticeable growth , which became very thick by December 30 .
By January 30 all free-swimming forms had disappeared , and nothing remained but a ring of encysted Fig. 1.\#151 ; Photogi'aph to show the Growth of Euglena in a Tube ( B ) , containing the optimal Miquel mixture , to which tyrosin solution was added , as described .
Tube A shows the slight growth in a control culture containing the optimal Miquel solution , but with no organic solution .
Photograph shows a 10-days growth .
Euglena .
It was found that by replenishing the culture medium in this tube , the growth of the Euglena could at once be revived : within two days after replenishment a thick growth of free-swimming forms was obtained .
This suggested that the tyrosin was used up after a certain period .
To test this hypothesis , cultures were made in the optimal Miquel mixture , to which tyrosin was added in the solid form , so that as soon as the dissolved tyrosin was used up , fresh tyrosin might go into solution .
Cultures grown in this medium showed a very rapid growth of Euglena during the first fortnight or three weeks , but after that the increased development of N 2 Messrs. H. G. Thornton and G. Smith .
bacteria in the culture usually interferes with the Euglena growth .
The following culture may be regarded as typical of the growth of Euglena in a medium of this nature:\#151 ; Cultures with Tyrosin Media , inoculated February 2 .
Composition of tube .
G-rowth on Feb. 5 .
G-rowth on Feb. 18 .
4 c.c. Miquel tap + 6 c.c. tap water + solid tyrosin 4 c.c. Miquel tap + 6 c.c. tap water + 1 c.c. tyrosin solution Very strong Euglena growth .
Slight growth of Euglena .
Euglena dead or encysted ; numerous bacteria .
Very strong Euglena growth ; very few bacteria .
To avoid the excessive growth of bacteria in the tyrosin and at the same time to ensure the continuous supply of tyrosin , the following culture method was devised .
The Euglena was grown in a tube containing the optimal Miquel mixture alone , and the trace of tyrosin was supplied from another tube containing a saturated solution of this substance connected by means of a capillary tube with the Euglena culture .
In this way the culture medium is continually supplied with traces of tyrosin solution , but the diffusion is too slow to cause an excess of tyrosin in the tube containing the Euglena .
It was found that by this method a strong growth of Euglena could gradually be obtained , nearly free from the bacteria and minute flagellates which always appeared in cultures to which solid tyrosin was added .
Of all the culture media employed the thickest and most successful growths of Euglena have been obtained with optimal Miquel mixture to which tyrosin is added .
Glycocoll.\#151 ; Cultures were made in optimal Miquel mixture to which was added 1 c.c. of 1-per-cent , solution of glycocoll .
These cultures invariably gave a strong growth of bacteria and , at first , a greatly retarded growth of Euglena , though subsequently the Euglena increased .
In no case did these cultures compare in strength of growth with the cultures in tyrosin media .
It is probable that this retardation was due to the bacterial growth , and this subject will be dealt with in the latter part of the paper .
Alanine.\#151 ; 1 c.c. of a 1-per-cent , alanine solution was added to the Miquel mixture as usual .
The cultures invariably gave a very strong bacterial growth , and very frequently a bacillus producing a vivid apple-green coloration appeared .
This green colouring matter was shown not to be chlorophyll , as it was developed more rapidly and to a greater degree in the dark than in the light .
At first , as in glycocoll , the Euglena failed to multiply , though after a long period , viz. about three weeks , tubes inoculated On the Growth of certain Fresh-water and Soil Protista .
159 with a ring of encysted forms , as described above , produced a considerable growth .
The great superiority of the tyrosin solutions over the solutions of glycocoll and alanine was very marked .
It was at first thought possible that this was due to the presence of the benzene ring in the tyrosin , especially since alanine is similar in composition to tyrosin , except that in the former substance the oxyphenyl ring is absent .
OH CH3.CH(hTH2).COOH .
\y CH2.CH(NH2).COOH .
Alanine .
Tyrosin .
With a view to testing this hypothesis , the phenyl compounds of alanine and glycocoll were employed in the culture media .
In media containing phenyl glycocoll , / \ \J CH(NH2).COOH , it was found that no growth took place , even the development of the bacteria being prevented .
But , in the media containing phenylalanine , H \J CH2.CH(NH2).COOH .
a very strong growth of Euglena was produced , bacterial growth being at first slight , but increasing after some time .
Since this compound resembles tyrosin in being very insoluble , it was added to the media in a solid form .
' Attempts to grow Euglena in saccharin , X-f so2 CO \gt ; NH , showed that this substance prohibited all growth of the organism .
The negative results obtained with phenyl glycocoll and with saccharin showed that , at any rate , the mere presence of the benzene ring was not the essential factor for the growth of the Euglena .
Since the substances that are most successful for the propagation of Euglena , namely , tyrosin and phenylalanine , are only very slightly soluble , so that exceedingly weak solutions are* used , and since , on this account , bacterial growth in these solutions is very slight compared with that which occurs in the stronger solutions of alanine and glycin , it seemed possible Messrs. H. G. Thornton and G. Smith .
that the strong growth of the Euglena might be connected with the slight bacterial growth .
To test this hypothesis , lesser amounts of alanine and glycocoll were added to the Miquel mixture .
From 0*2 c.c. to 05 c.c. were added to 10 c.c. of the optimal Miquel mixture .
In cultures started from a ring of encysted forms it was found possible to obtain extremely good growths of Euglena by this means , the bacterial growth being very much lessened .
It is thus obvious that the Euglena can use alanine and glycocoll , as well as tyrosin and phenylalanine , provided its growth is not inhibited by the rapid development of bacteria , such as always takes place in the glycocoll and alanine solutions when they are too strong .
This result is of importance as indicating that the amido-acids are used as such by the Euglena , and not after being decomposed by bacterial growth .
Thus , attempts made to grow Euglena in tubes containing an alanine medium in which bacterial decomposition had proceeded for a long time were entirely unsuccessful .
It is interesting to notice in this connection the fact mentioned above that , in the case of tyrosin , the addition of the solid substance to the tubes causes a considerable bacterial growth , which , after about three weeks , was sufficient to inhibit the proper growth of the Euglena .
Nencki* has shown that , under the influence of anaerobic bacteria , tyrosin is converted into oxyphenyl-propionic acid , 'H \JCH2.CH2.COOH , and it is probable that , under the aerobic conditions met with in the culture tubes , further decomposition into oxyphenylacetic acid and phenol takes place .
Decomposition along similar lines occurs when phenylalanine is subjected to bacterial growth , phenylpropionic acid and phenylacetic acid being formed .
Thus , when tyrosin and phenylalanine are added in the solid condition , their solutions are sufficiently strong to allow a growth of bacteria , which decompose them into phenol derivatives that are harmful to the Euglena growth .
We may suppose that , in the same way , harmful products are produced by bacterial action on alanine and glycocoll , so that the Euglena is prevented from developing in .
the solutions of a strength adapted to the growth of bacteria .
Other nitrogenous compounds have been tried , e.g. urea , uric acid , and * Nencki , ' Ber .
d. Deutsch .
Chem. Gesellsch .
, ' 1874 , p. 1593 .
On the Growth of certain Fresh-water and Soil Protista .
161 allantoin .
All these substances gave negative results , and no growth of Euglena coulil be obtained in optimal Miquel mixture to which these substances were added .
Thus , no substances other than compounds of the amido-acid type , have been found suitable for stimulating the growth of the Euglena .
If we enquire into the part played by the amido-acids in the nutrition of Euglena , it may first be noted that the Euglena is obtaining the greater part of its nutriment from the COa of the air and from the mineral substances in the Miquel mixture .
This was readily proved by keeping a control tube , containing th6 optimal Miquel solution to which tyrosin had been added , in the dark , in which case the growth of the Euglena was at once arrested ( fig- 2 ) .
It must also be pointed out that the amount of amido-acid present in the optimal culture medium is exceedingly minute ; in the case of tyrosin Fig. 2.\#151 ; Photograph showing the Growth of Euglena in Miquel Mixture and Tyrosin , in the dark ( tube C ) , and in the light ( tube D ) .
Photographed three weeks after inoculation .
solution the amount of the salt is only 1 part in 24,000 of liquid .
It is very remarkable that so minute a trace of organic matter can make so great a difference in the rapidity of growth and reproduction in an organism as shown in the first photograph ( fig. 1 ) .
It would appear that the organic substance acts more as a stimulant than as a direct source of nutriment .
162 Messrs. H. G. Thornton and G. Smith .
The facts observed in the culture of Euglena may be summarised as follows:\#151 ; ( ^ ) solutions containing no organic matter , the Euglena increases very slowly .
( b ) By the addition of a trace of organic infusion to the solution of inorganic salts , a good growth of Euglena can often be obtained .
( c ) The efficacy of the natural organic infusion in stimulating the growth was very variable .
( d ) Minute traces of amido-acids added to the inorganic solution had a remarkable effect in stimulating the growth of the Euglena .
( e ) Stronger solutions of amido-acids were less successful owing to the rapid development of bacteria in the medium .
( / ) The Euglena does not appear to live saprophytically on the amido-acid , since it cannot be made to thrive in the absence of light .
2 .
Experiments with Soil The method of growing Protozoa in solutions containing a mixture of Miquel in tap water to which various organic compounds are added was also applied with a view to studying the protozoal fauna of various soils .
The mode of procedure was similar to that employed in the experiments on Euglena .
The cultures were made in sterilised test-tubes to which the optimal Miquel solution was added , the solutions also being carefully sterilised .
Various organic solutions were added to the various tubes , which were inoculated by adding a small amount of soil to each tube .
This method was found to be particularly suited to the culture of the minute soil flagellates , more especially Prowazekia terricola described by Martin.^ The following Table shows a typical series of cultures conducted as described above:\#151 ; * See Dr. Russel and Dr. Hutchison , " On the Effect of Partial Sterilisation of Soil on the Production of Plant Food , " 'Journ .
Agric .
Sci. , ' vol. 3 , part 2 ( 1909 ) , also Goodey , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 84 , p. 165 ( 1911 ) . .
t C. H. Martin , 'Zool .
Anzeiger , ' vol. 41 , No. 10 ( 1913 ) .
A flagellate monad , similar to that described by C. H. Martin ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 85 , 1912 ) , was found in small numbers in our cultures .
On the Growth of certain Fresh-water and Soil Protista .
163 Composition .
Inoculation , March 8 .
Observations on March 13 .
4 c.c. Miquel tap + 6 c.c. tap\#151 ; 1 .
+1 c.c. cane sugar solution 2 .
+ solid tvrosin 3 .
+ solid phenylalanine 4 .
+ 1 c.c. cane sugar 5 .
+ solid tyrosin 6 .
+ solid phenylalanine 7 .
+ 1 c.c. cane sugar 8 .
+ solid tyrosin 9 .
+ solid phenylalanine 10 .
+ 1 c.c. cane sugar 11 .
+ solid tyrosin 12 .
+ solid phenylalanine 13 .
+ 1 c.c. cane sugar 14 .
+ solid tyrosin 15 .
+ solid phenylalanine Controls .
Not 1 \gt ; inoculated J ; r Inoculated with J stale manure j ) i Inoculated with 1 j leaf mould j 1 Inoculated with 1 [ ploughed soil 1 Inoculated with f \gt ; soil under \lt ; J grass land .
[ Few bacteria only .
Sterile .
Sterile .
A few soil flagellates .
Some ciliates .
Very large numbers of soil flagellates and of soil amoebae .
Large numbers of flagellates ; a few ciliates .
A few soil flagellates .
Very large numbers of flagellates .
Large numbers of flagellates .
Very few flagellates .
No flagellates .
Very few flagellates .
No flagellates .
Very few flagellates .
Fair number of flagellates .
The above Table illustrates the fact that while the minute soil flagellates thrive best in tyrosin or in phenylalanine solutions , yet they are able to develop in solutions containing cane sugar .
Cultures were made with the object of ascertaining the effect of various other organic substances on the growth of the flagellates .
The flagellates in these cultures were derived for the most part from a stock tube of Euglena culture in tyrosin , in which Prowazekia was also very abundant .
The following list embodies the results obtained with various organic substances .
Save where otherwise mentioned , the organic compounds were added in the proportion of 1 c.c. of a 1-per-cent , solution to 10 c.c. of the optimal Miquel mixture in tap water .
Growth of the flagellates .
Peptone ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Good growth .
Tyrosin ( OH .
C6H5.CH2.CH(NH2).COOH ) ... ... ... . .
Very strong growth .
Tyrosin ( added solid ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Optimum growth .
Phenylalanine , C6H5.CH2.CH(NH2)COOH ( added solid ) Strong growth .
Alanine CH3.CH(NH2).COOH ( 0-5 c.c. of 1-per-cent , solution ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Pair growth .
Glycocoll , CH2(NH2).COOH ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Pair growth .
Phenylglycocoll , C6H5.CH(NH2).COOH ... ... ... . .
No growth .
Allantoin ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
No growth .
Saccharin ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... No growth .
Cane sugar ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Good growth .
Tartaric acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
No growth .
These cultures showed that the soil flagellates were able to grow in tubes containing a large variety of organic substances , in many of which Puglena is Messrs. H. G. Thornton and G. Smith .
unable to thrive .
This is the result of the holozoic mode of nutrition of the flagellates , which feed greedily on the bacteria in the culture and are always to be found in greatest abundance in the bacterial scum at the surface .
The development of the soil flagellates in the culture is evidently dependent upon the bacterial flora in the tube .
In the tyrosin media the bacterial growth reaches its most favourable degree for the development of the flagellates .
In the case of cultures in media containing alanine it is frequently found that the flagellates fail to attain their maximum growth , being probably swamped by the excessive numbers of bacteria .
In order to discover whether the Miquel salts were necessary for the growth of the soil flagellates , a culture medium was made up by adding solid tyrosin to 10 c.c. of tap-water , and this was inoculated with a strong culture of Prowazehia terricola .
This culture entirely failed to develop , remaining almost entirely free even of bacteria , which were evidently unable to develop satisfactorily in the absence of the salts of the Miquel solution .
The Prowazekia were observed to flourish in cultures containing very varied types of bacteria .
In order to discover whether the flagellates exercised any selective faculty when feeding upon the bacteria , a number of smear preparations were made from different cultures .
The films were fixed with corrosive acetic or with osmic vapour , and were stained with iron hsematoxylin .
These preparations showed that bacteria of all the types surrounding the flagellates were ingested in quite a promiscuous manner ( see Plate 12 ) .
The cultures inoculated with various soils , both in the test-tubes and in drop cultures which were also made , show the enormous abundance and wide distribution of these minute flagellates as compared with other soil protozoa .
Although ciliates and amcebae often fail to appear in tubes inoculated with a very small quantity of soil , yet all the types of soil that have been tried have yielded at least some Prowazekia when inoculated into the appropriate culture media .
The organism has also been found in tap water and in water from an open-air tank .
The very rapid increase of these minute flagellates is also very noticeable .
Under the optimum culture conditions it has been found possible to obtain a strong growth of the flagellates within 48 hours of the time of inoculation .
On the other hand the larger protozoa , such as the ciliates , do not become even noticeable in the tubes until a week or so has elapsed .
The great abundance and wide distribution of the minute flagellates , taken in conjunction with their rapid powers of increase , suggest that in all probability they are of much greater importance than the larger soil protozoa as a factor in the destruction of soil bacteria .
Thornton and Smith .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B , vol. 88 , Plate 12 .
On the Growth of certain Fresh-ivater and Soil Protista .
165 The ease with which Prowazekia can be grown in culture media containing tyrosin suggests the possibility of investigating its distribution in various types of soil .
Experiments in this direction are at present very incomplete , but as far as they go they tend to show that rich manure soil or leaf mould contains a considerably greater number of the minute flagellates than less rich soils .
This is well seen in Table II .
( Compare Nos. 4-9 with Nos. 10-15 .
) In summing up the points observed in the cultures of soil flagellates we notice the following facts:\#151 ; ( a ) As compared with Euglena they are able to live in cultures to which organic compounds of very varying natures have been added .
( \#163 ; \gt ; ) This comparative impartiality is the result of the holozoic mode of nutrition , the development of the flagellates being absolutely dependent on the bacterial growth .
( c ) The presence of the Miquel salts in the solution is necessary for the growth of the soil flagellates and for the proper development of the bacteria upon which they feed .
( d ) The flagellates can feed upon a variety of different types of bacteria .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Soil Flagellates from a Culture containing a Mixed Bacterial Flora , showing various Types of Ingested Bacteria , x 2000 .
Figs. 1-2.\#151 ; Two individuals containing ingested bacilli .
" 3-6.\#151 ; Individuals containing cocci of two kinds .
" 7-8.\#151 ; Two individuals containing partially digested bacteria .

