III .
" Note on the Lines in the Spectra of some of the Fixed Stars .
" By WILLIAM HUGGINS , Esq. , F.R.A.S. , and WILLIAM ALLEN MILLER , M.D. , LL. D. , Treasurer and V.P.R.S. Received February 19 , 1863 .
The recent detailed examination of the solar spectrum , and the remarkable observations of Kirchhoff upon the connexion of the dark lines of Fraunhofer with the bright lines of artificial flames , having imparted new interest to the investigation of spectra , it has appeared to the authors of the present note that the Royal Society may not consider a brief account of their recent inquiry upon the spectra of some of the self-luminous bodies of the heavens unworthy of attention , although the investigation is as yet far from complete .
After devoting considerable time to the construction of apparatus suitable to this delicate branch of inquiry , they have at length succeeded in contriving an arrangement which has enabled them to view the lines in the stellar spectra in much greater detail than has been figured or described by any previous observer .
The 'U 7-L1 LAL r1 apparatus also permits of the immediate comparison of the stellar spectra with those of terrestrial flames .
The accompanying drawing " X x ; u I &gt; §§ ?
Ii 1 % -f j " y ?
'1'0 1|\1 r iminA , 1-l 11 111 shows with considerable accuracy the principal lines which the authors have seen in Sirius , Betelgeux , and Aldebaran , and their position relatively to the chief solar lines .
Without at present describing in detail , as they propose to do when the experiments are completed , the arrangements of the special apparatus employed , it may be sufficient to state that it is attached to an achromatic telescope of 10 feet focal length , mounted in the observatory of Mr. Huggins at Upper Tulse Hill .
The object-glass , which has an aperture of 8 inches , is a very fine one by Alvan Clark of Cambridge , U.S. ; the equatorial mounting is by Cooke of York , and the telescope is carried very smoothly by a clock motion .
It may further be stated that the position in the stellar spectra corresponding to that of Fraunhofer 's line D , from which the others are measured , has been obtained by coincidence with a sodium line , the position of which in the apparatus was compared directly with the line D in the solar spectrum .
The lines in the drawings against which a mark is placed have been measured .
Addendum.-Since the foregoing Note was presented to the Royal Society , the authors have learned that a paper on the same subject , accompanied by diagrams of the spectra of the Moon , Jupiter , Mars , and several of the fixed stars , by Mr. L. M. Rutherfilrd , has appeared in the January Number of the ' American Journal of Science ' for the current year .
The method of observing finally employed by Mr. Rutherfurd much resembles that adopted by the authors of this Note .
They therefore desire to add that , during the past twelvemonth , they have examined the spectra of the Moon , Jupiter , and Mars , as well as of between thirty and forty stars , including those of Arcturus , Castor , a Lyrae , Capella , and Procyon , some of the principal lines of which they have measured approximatively .
They have also observed 3 and y Andromede , a , ,3 , e and r Pegasi , Rigel , j Orionis , 3 Aurigae , Pollux , y Geminorum , a , y and e Cygni , a Trianguli , e , and n Ursae Majoris , a , / 3 , y , e and j Cassiopeiee , and some others.-[Feb .
21 , 1863 .
]

