XIII .
Some account of the Dugong .
By Sir THOMAS STAFORD RAFFLES , Governor of Sumatra ; communicated in a Letter to Sir EVERARD HOME , Bart. V. P. R. S. Read iMay 18 , i82o .
MY DEAR SlR , IH AV E now the pleasure of communicating to you the desired information concerning the dugong .
At Singapore , in June last , I had the good fortune to meet with one of these animals , and Messrs. DIARD and DUVAUCEL , two French naturalists , employed under my authority , undertook the dissection of it ; and have sent a dissertation upon it to Sir JosEPH BANKs , This does not interfere with my sending to you , as I promised , an account of it .
I was present at the dissection ; and the following observations , as far as they go , may be depended upon .
I have read them over to Dr. WALLICK and General HARDWICKE , and they concur in opinion as to the correctness of the description .
I have the pleasure to acquaint you , that General HARDWICKE has just now got a small dugong , four feet six inches long , which I have succeeded in persuading him to send home to you for dissection , and you will receive it by the next ships The dugong which we examined measured eight feet and a half in length , and afforded no less interest under the knife than satisfaction on the table , as the flesh proved t6 be most excellent beef .
Our entertainment was truly marine ; for we had on the same day discovered those Neptunian sponges which General HARDWICKE has since described , and which served us as goblets .
In form the dugong resembles the common cetacea , having , like them , a broad horizontal tail , and two pectoral fiJn without nails .
The skin is smooth , thick , bluish above and whitish beneath , with a few remote and scattered hairs .
The mammae ( in the two male individuals examined ) are small , and situated on the breast , immediately below the pectoral fins .
Head small in proportion , obtuLse , and of a peculiar form .
Upper lip very large , thick , and obliquely truncated , forming a short , thick , and nearly vertical kind of snout .
The surface of the truncated portion is covered with soft papille , and is also furnished with a few bristles .
Two short tusks project straight forward from the extremity of the upper jaw , and are nearly covered by the upper lip , which is very moveable , and tumid at the margin .
The lower lip is much smaller , and resembles a round or oblong chin .
The margin of both lips is furnished with strong coarse bristles .
There are no incisors in either jaw ( the tusks above mentioned being more properly defences ) , their place being supplied by the rough bristly surfaces of the palate and jaws , which serve as rasps , to enable the animal to browse upon the algae and other submarine vegetables .
To facilitate this still farther , the anterior part of the jaw is bent downwards at an angle , in such a manner as to bring the mouth into nearly a vertical direction .
There are no canine teeth .
The molares are twelve in number , six in each jaw , placed far back on the horizontal part .
They are cylindrical , with flat crowns ; the first are somewhat oblique , and worn to a kind of point ; the second are perfectly flat ; but the last are composed of two parallel and adhering cylinders .
They are short , and scarcely project from the gums .
The tongue is small and short , The nostrils are situated on the summit of the upper jaw , where it makes its curvature downwards .
They penetrate obliquely , in such a manner that the upper semilunar edge pressing upon the lower surface , forms a perfect valve .
The eyes are small , and situated on the sides of the cranium .
The aperture of the ears is so small as with difficulty to be perceived , and is situated at some distance behind the eyes .
Body rounded , diminishing to the tail , and without any vestige of dorsal or ventral fins .
The place of the anterior extremities is supplied by fins , which offer no appearance of nails , but are somewhat verrucose on their anterior margin .
They are thick and fleshy , and neither from their form nor size capable of supporting or assisting the animal out of the water .
Tail broad , horizontal , and of a crescent or semilunar form .
176 Dissection .
Skin three quarters of an inch thick , with little adipose matter , and yielding no oil .
The cavity of the abdomen large .
The stomach is large ; and the relative position of the cardiac and pyloric orifices is nearly as in the human subject .
It has two appendages , which open into it near the junction of the duodenum .
Membrane of the stomach thick , internal surface smooth , and not corrugated into plicae .
The stomach and its appendages were distended with fucus or sea-weed , but little masticated or altered .
Intestinal canal long .
Small intestines uniform .
Caecum very large , somewhat curved , and containing a portion of partially digested sea-weed .
Colon exceeding the small intestines in diameter by one third , very uniform , and with few or no contractions .
Liver of moderate size , consisting of two large and distinct lobes , connected by a smaller one somewhat tongue-shaped , and a fourth which was very small , on the posterior side .
Gall bladder little distended , and situated beneath the third and tongue-shaped lobe .
Spleen very small , not exceeding three inches long and one inch thick , attached to the left side of the stomach .
Pancreas lying below the duodenum .
Kidneys in their usual place , and large .
Bladder much contracted , not exceeding the size of an egg , but from the thickness of its coats , is probably capable of much greater distension .
177 Testicles situated a little below the kidneys , egg-shaped , flattened , partly embraced by a very perceptible epididymis .
Penis large ; while collapsed entirely concealed within the prepuce .
The glans consists of two lobes , separated or cloven above , in such a manner as to give the whole the appearance of the cloven foot of a ruminating animal .
The urethra opens on a small tubercle or papilla between the lobes of the glans .
In the thorax , the thymus gland is particularly large , black and friable under the fingers , and occupying the space between the folds of the mediastinum .
Lungs two , distinct , of an elongated form , not lobulated , and situated posteriorly , one on each side ; their substance of the usual mottled colour .
The trachea bifurcates very high up , and the two branches diverge to their respective lungs .
Heart situated on the left side , double ; that is to say , having the ventricles entirely separate at their points , and only connected at the upper part , or base .
Each side possesses a ventricle and auricle , with the usual valves , and without any communication between the right and left sides .
The left ventricle , which gives off the aorta , is stronger and more muscular than the right , whose cavity is larger , and coats thinner .
Of the skeleton , a few observations will suffice..-The skull is remarkable by the peculiar manner in which the anterior part of the upper jaw is bent downwards , almost at a right angle , so as to f6rm a kind of beak .
The lower jaw is truncated in such a manner as to 178 correspond , and become parallel with the elongated portion of the upper jaw .
This portion of the lower jaw has eight alveolar excavations , which are sometimes empty , and sometimes contain the rudiments of teeth .
The vertebrae are fifty two in number , seven to the neck , eighteen to the back , and twenty seven to the tail .
Ribs , eighteen on each side .
Sternum nearly a foot long , bifurcate at the apex , and articulated to the cartilages of the upper ribs .
There is no pelvis or posterior extremities , but there are found opposite to the eighth or tenth lumbar vertebra two bones , one on each side , lodged in the flesh , which are narrow and flattened , and not above five or six inches in length .
Scapule broad and thick ; humerus short and strong , as is also the radius and ulna .
The whole of these are firmly articulated to each other ; and though externally the fins offer no appearance of finges , all the corresponding bones are found complete even to the last phalanges .
The food of the dugong appears to consist exclusively of fuci and submarine algae , which it finds at the bottom of shallow inlets of the sea .
The position and structure of the mouth , enables the animal to browse upon these vegetables , much in the same manner as a cow in a meadow ; and the whole structure of the masticating and digestive organs show:it to be truly herbivorous .
The flesh resembles young beef , and is very delicate and juicy .
The individual , of 179 which the skeleton and intestines are now sent to England , was taken at Singapore , in June , 1819 .
According to the information given by the natives , the dugong is never found on land , or in fresh water , but generally in the shallows and inllets of the sea , where the water is only two or three fathoms deep .
During our short possession of -Singapore , ( not more than six months ) four of these animals have been taken ; but the greatest number is said to be caught during the opposite or northerly monsoon , when the sea is calmest , near the mouth of the Johore river , in the inlet of the sea between Singapore Island and the main .
They are usually taken by spearing ( at which the natives are particularly dexterous ) during the night , when the animals give warning of their approach by the snuffling noise they make at the surface of the water .
The first object is to secure and elevate the tail , when the animal becomes perfectly powerless , and at their disposal .
They are seldom caught above eight or nine feet in length , but how much larger they grow is not ascertained , as when they exceed this size , their superior strength enables them to make their escape when attacked .
The Ikan dugong is considered by the Malays as a royal fish , and the king is entitled to all that are taken .
The flesh is highly'prized , and considered by them far superior to that of the buffalo or cow .
They distinguish two varieties , the duyong bumban , and the duyong buntal ; the latter much thicker and shorter in proportion .
The breasts of the adult females are said to be large .
The affection of the mother for its young is strongly marked ; and the Malays make 18o frequent allusion to this animal , as an example of maternal affection .
When they succeed in taking a young one , they feel themselves certain of the mother , who follows it to the margin of the sea , and allows herself to be speared or taken with the greatest ease .
The young have a short sharp cry , which they frequently repeat ; and it is said they shed tears .
These tears are carefully preserved by the common people as a charm , the possession of which is supposed to secure the affections of those to whom they are attached , in the same manner as they attract the mother to her young .
This idea is at least as poetic , and certainly more natural , than the fable of the Syren 's song .
I remain , my dear Sir , yours truly , THOMAS STAMFORD RAFFLES .
Dimensions .
Total length of the animal Greatest circumference Length of the head from the nostrils to the occiput _--_---ofrom the nostrils to the end of the snout Ft. In .
86 6o 13 0Q Width of the snout Depth of Do .
Length of the chin Breadth of DoDistance from the nostrils to the eyes ------- the eyes to the ears -------- the eyes to the fin -MDCCCXX .
Bbo 94 osoG o61 ~I 5 $ ' ) ' Ft. In .
Length of the fins 14 Breadth of Do .
o8 i-_ across the belly from fin to fin 11 Distance between the mamma 5 Breadth of tail from tip to tip 7 Circumference of the root of the tail 9 Distance from the anus to the centre of the tail 29 - .
from the anus to the penis i Total length of the intestines 115 o r.Do .
of small intestines including the caecum 44 o --Do .
of great intestines 72 o With this acqount , Sir T. S. RAFFLES sent me a copy of some observations in French , by Messrs. DIARD and DUVAUCEL , upon the stomach of the dugong .
Sir T. S. RAFFLES mentioned that these observations formed part of a Memoir written by those Gentlemen ; under these circumstances , I have not felt myself authorized to lay them before the Society , along with those made by Sir THOMAS STAMFORD RAFFLES , which I consider of too much importance to be delayed .
EVERARD HOME .
I

