500 Prof. Williamsoii On Lepidodendi'a and Sigillarise .
[ June 15 , The amount of action in a circuit of two metals and a saline solution must have as one of its regulating conditions the conducting-power of that solution .
It appeared by experiment that a strong solution of nitrate of silver offers less resistance than a weak one ; and it was also found , on adding nitrate of potassium to the nitrate of silver , that its power of attacking the copper plate was increased , that the augmentation of the foreign salt increased the action still further , and that the 2-3 law holds good between two solutions in which both the silver and potassium salt are doubled , though it does not hold good if the quantity of foreign salt be kept constant .
Similar results were obtained with mixed nitrates of silver and copper .
While these later experiments offer an explanation of the fact that a solution of double the strength produces more than double the chemical action , they do not explain why it should produce exactly three times the effect , or why the ratio should be the same in all substitutions of this nature hitherto tried .
The simplicity and wide range of the 2-3 law seem to indicate that it is a very primary one in chemical dynamics .
IV .
\lt ; c On the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures.\#151 ; Part II .
Lepidodendra and Sigillaria " By W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural History in Owens College , Man- .
Chester .
Received June 13 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The Lepidodendron selaginoides described by Mr. Binney , and still more recently by Mr. Carruthers , is taken as the standard of comparison for numerous other forms .
It consists of a central medullary axis composed of a combination of transversely barred vessels with similarly barred cells ; the vessels are arranged without any special linear order .
This tissue is closely surrounded by a second and narrower ring , also of barred vessels , but of smaller size , and arranged in vertical laminae which radiate from within outwards .
These laminae are separated by short vertical piles of cells , believed to be medullary rays .
In the transverse section the intersected mouths of the vessels form radiating lines , and the whole structure is regarded as an early type of an exogenous cylinder ; it is from this cylinder alone that the vascular bundles going to the leaves are given off .
Ihis woody zone is surrounded by a very thick cortical layer , which is parenchymatous at its inner part , the cells being without definite order ; but externally they become prosenchymatous , and are arranged in radiating lines , which latter tendency is observed to manifest itself whenever the bark-cells assume the prosenchymatous type .
Outside the bark is an epidermal layer , separated from the rest of the bark by a thin bast-layer of prosenchyma , the cells of which are developed into a tubular and almost vascular form ; but the vessels are never barred , being essentially of the fibrous type .
1871 .
] Prof. Williamson on Lepidodendra and Sigillarise .
501 Externally to this bast-layer is a more superficial epiderm of parenchyma , supporting the bases of leaves , which consist of similar parenchymatous tissue .
Tangential sections of these outer cortical tissues show that the so-called " decorticated " specimens of Lepidodendra and of other allied plants are merely examples that have lost their epidermal layer or had it converted into coal , this layer , strengthened by the bast-tissue of its inner surface , having remained as a hollow cylinder when all the more internal structures had been destroyed or removed .
From this type the author proceeds upwards through a series of examples in which the vessels of the medulla become separated from its central cellular portions and retreat towards its periphery , forming an outer cylinder of medullary vessels , which are arranged without order and enclose a defined cellular axis ; at the same time the encircling ligneous zone of radiating , vessels becomes yet more developed , both in the number of its vessels and in the diameter of the cylinder relatively to that of the entire stem .
As these changes are produced , the medullary rays separating the laminse of the woody wedges become more definite , some of them assuming a more composite structure , and the entire organization gradually assuming a more exogenous type ; at the same time the cortical portions retain all the essential features of the Lepidodendroid plants .
Commencing with the Lepidodendron selaginoides just described , we pass on to L. in which there is a distinct cellular axis to the medulla , surrounded by a ring of medullary vessels , externally to which is the second or radiating cylinder of vessels , from which alone , as M. Brongniart has very correctly shown , the bundles of vessels supplying the leaves are derived .
Then we reach the more highly organized of the forms which Mr. Binney has described under the common name of Sigillaria , in which the woody cylinder is more extensively developed .
This conducts us to a series of varieties from which the cells of the medulla have disappeared , but in which there is a very distinct inner cylinder of large barred vessels not arranged in radiating order , and an outer and much more ample cylinder of smaller ones arranged on the exogenous type .
In these examples the line of demarcation between the vessels of the medulla and those of the ligneous zone is sometimes straight and at others boldly crenulated .
In the latter examples the outside of the vascular medullary cylinder , detached from its surroundings , exhibits the fluted appearance of a Calamite , for which it might be mistaken , but it lacks the transverse nodal constrictions of that genus .
It is to some of these more highly organized Lepidodendra just referred to that Corda has applied the name of and Witham that of Anabathra , both of which correspond in the closest manner with the Sigillaria elegans of M. Brongniart .
We are thus brought , by the evidence of internal organization , to the conclusion that the plants which Brongniart has divided into two distinct groups , the one of which he has placed amongst the vascular Cryptogams , and the other amongst the Gymnospermous Exogens , constitute one great natural family .
502 Prof. Williamson on Lepidodendra and Sigillarise .
[ June 15 , Of this family numerous other modifications are described .
Thus Vlo-dendron and Halonia , very closely allied , if not identical genera , have a structure closely corresponding with that of , since they possess a very distinct cellular medullary axis enclosed within the ring of medullary vessels , and , besides , exhibit the enclosing ligneous zone at its minimum stage of development .
The remarkable scars of TJlor dendron and the tubercles of Halonia appear to have had their most prominent surfaces composed of the true bark-layer deprived of its epidermal bast and parenchymatous layers , which surround these structures but do not wholly enclose them .
These characteristic structures are believed to have supported special organs , into which the epidermal layer of the stem has been prolonged , and which the author believes to have been reproductive cones .
Favularia corresponds very closely , so far as its cortical layer is concerned , with those already described ; and as Brongniart 's elegans is an unquestionable Favularia , the entire series of this subgenus is brought into the closest relationship with the plants described .
But the author has further met with some important examples , showing that the stem supported verticils of organs that were neither leaves nor branches , but which are believed to have been cones , thus bringing to light an additional indication of affinity between FaHalonia , and Ulodendron .
Well-marked examples have also been obtained from the Lancashire Lower Coal-measures , the source whence all the specimens described have been obtained , of the outer cortical layers of true Sigillaria .
These specimens demonstrate that the bark of these plants is of the true Lepidodendron type .
No example of an unquestionable Sigillaria in which the central woody axis is preserved has yet been seen by the author .
Stigmaria is shown to have been much misunderstood , so far as the details of its structure are concerned , especially of late years .
In his memoir of Sigillaria elegans , published in 1839 , M. Brongniart gave a description of it , which , though limited to a small portion of its structure , was , as far as it went , a remarkably correct one .
The plant now well known to be a root of Sigillaria , possessed a cellular pith without any trace of a distinct outer zone of medullary vessels , such as is universal amongst the Lepidodendra .
The pith is immediately surrounded by a thick and well-developed ligneous cylinder , which contains two distinct sets of primary and secondary medullary rays .
The primary ones are of large size , and are arranged in regular quincunctial order ; they are composed of thick masses of mural cellular tissue .
A tangential section of each ray exhibits a lenticular outline , the long axis of which corresponds with that of the stem .
These rays pass directly outwards from pith to bark , and separate the larger woody wedges which constitute so distinct a feature in all transverse sections of this zone , and each of which consists of aggregated laminae of barred vessels disposed in very regular radiating series .
The smaller rays consist of vertical piles of cells , arranged in single rows , and often consisting of but one , two , or three cells in each vertical series , 1871 .
] Prof. Williamson on Lepidodendra and Sigillarise .
503 these latter are very numerous and intervene between all the numerous radiating laminae of vessels that constitute the larger wedges of woody tissue .
The vessels going to the rootlets are not given off from the pith , as Goeppert supposed , but from the sides of the woody wedges bounding the upper part of the several large lenticular medullary rays , those of the lower portion of the ray taking no part in the constitution of the vascular bundles .
The vessels of the region in question descend vertically and parallel to each other until they come in contact with the medullary ray , when they are suddenly deflected , in large numbers , in an outward direction , and nearly at right angles to their previous course , to reach the rootlets .
But only a small number reach their destination , the great majority of the deflected vessels terminating in the woody zone .
A very thick bark surrounds the woody zone .
Immediately in contact with the latter it consists of a thin layer of delicate vertically elongated cellular tissue , in which the mural tissues of the outer extremities of the medullary rays become merged .
Externally to this structure is a thick parenchyma , which- quickly assumes a more or less prosenchymatous form and becomes arranged in thin radiating1 laminae as it extends outwards .
The epidermal layer consists of cellular parenchyma with vertically elongated cells at its inner surface , which feebly represents the bast-layer of the other forms of Lepidodendroid plants .
The rootlets consist of an outer layer of parenchyma , derived from the epidermal parenchyma .
Within this is a cylindrical space , the tissue of which has always disappeared .
In the centre is a bundle of vessels surrounded by a cylinder of very delicate cellular tissue , prolonged either from one of the medullary rays or from the delicate innermost layer of the bark , because it always accompanies the vessels in their progress outwards through the middle and outer barks .
The facts of which the preceding is a summary lead to the conclusion that all the forms of plants described are but modifications of the Lepidodendroid type .
The leaf-scars of the specimens so common in the coal-shales represent tangential sections of the petioles of leaves when such sections are made close to the epidermal layer .
The thin film of coal of which these lpaf-scars consist , in specimens found both in sandstone and in shale , does not represent the entire bark as generally thought , and as is implied in the term " decorticated " usually applied to them , but is derived from the epidermal layer .
In such specimens all the more central axial structures ( viz. the medulla , the wood , and the thick layer of true bark ) have disappeared through decay , having been either destroyed or in some instances detached and floated out ; the bast-layer of the epiderm has arrested the destruction of the entire cylinder , and formed the mould into which inorganic materials have been introduced .
On the other hand , the woody cylinder is the part most frequently preserved in Stigmaria ; doubtless because , being subterranean , it was protected against the atmospheric action which destroyed so much of the stem .
It is evident that all these Lepidodendroid and Sigillarian plants must Dr. C. R. A. Wright on the Action of [ June 15 , be included in one common family , and that the separation of the latter from the former as a group of Gymnosperms , as suggested by M. Brong-niart , must be abandoned .
The remarkable development of exogenous woody structures in most members of the entire family indicates the necessity of ceasing to apply either to them or to their living representatives the term Acrogenous .
Hence the author proposes a division of the vascular Cryptogams into an exogenous group , containing diacece , Equisetacece , and the fossil Calamitacea , and an endogenous group , containing the ferns ; the former uniting the Cryptogams with the Exogens through the Gycadece and other Gymnosperms , and the latter linking them with the Endogens through the Palmacece .
V. " Contributions to the History of the Opium Alkaloids.\#151 ; Part II .
On the Action of Hydrobromic Acid on Codeia and its derivatives .
" By C. R. A. Wright , D.Sc .
, Lecturer on Chemistry in St. Mary 's Hospital Medical School .
Communicated by Dr. H. E. Roscok .
Received June 7,1871 .
It has been shown in Part I. of this research * that the action of hydrobromic acid on codeia gives rise , without evolution of methyl bromide , firstly to bromocodide , and secondly to two other new bases termed respectively deoxycodeia and bromotetracodeia , the latter of which , under the influence of hydrochloric acid , exchanges bromine for chlorine , yielding a corresponding chlorinated base , chlorotetracodeia ; when , however , the action of hydrobromic acid is prolonged , methyl bromide is evolved in some little quantity .
By digesting codeia with three or four times its weight of 48 per cent , acid for five or six hours on the water-bath , vapours were evolved which condensed by the application of a freezing-mixture to a colourless mobile liquid , the boiling-point of which was found to be 10o,5 to 11'*5 , and the vapour of which burnt with a yellow-edged flame , and exploded violently with oxygen , forming carbonic and hydrobromic acids .
It becomes , therefore , of interest to examine in detail the action of hydrobromic acid on each of the three bodies produced from codeia under its influence .
S 1 .
Action of Hydrobromic Acid on Bromotetracodeia .
When bromotetracodeia hvdrobromate is heated in a sealed tube to 100 ' with four or five times its weight of 48 per cent , hydrobromic acid for from six to ten hours , methyl bromide is found as a thin layer on the top of the tarry contents of the tube after cooling ; by dissolving this tarry substance in water and fractionally precipitating the liquid by strong hydrobromic acid several times successively , nearly white amorphous flakes are ultimately obtained , resembling in all their physical and chemical properties the bromotetracodeia hydrobromate originally employed .
After desiccation , first * Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xix .
p. 371 .

