]\gt ; of Motion in Relation to the Surface Friction of Fluids .
By T. E. STANTON and J. R. PANNELL .
Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received December 12 , 1913 , \mdash ; Read January 29 , 1914 .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper deals with an experimental investigation of the similarity of motion in fluids , of widely different viscosities and densities , in motion relative to geometrically similar surfaces , the existence of which has been predicted from considerations of dynamical similarity by Stokes , * Helmholtz , Osborne Reynolds , and Lord Rayleigh .
S The theory in its nlost ooeneral form may be expressed by the relation given by Lord Rayleigh where is the resistance per unit area of the surface , the density of the fluid , the velocity , a linear dimension of the surface , the kinematical coefficient of viscosity of the fluid , and the assumptions made in the derivation of the expression are that depends solely on , and The method of experimentally demonstrating the sufficiency of these assumptions has been by a determination of the surface friction of air and water flowing through smooth pipes of varying diameters and with as great in velocity as possible , and so obtaining values of the condicions for similarity of motion , which is that for the same values of in either fluid the values of should be identical .
The experiments show that this condition is fulfilled in the case of commercially smooth brass pipes with considerable accuracy through a in the value of of from to 430,000 .
To obtain this range with the comparatively small diameters of pipes used , mean velocities of flow up to 6000 cm .
per second have been reached .
From these data it has been possible to the limits of accuracy of the well-known index law of the resistance of fluids , , which 'Mathematical and Physical Papers , ' vol. 3 , p. 17 .
'Wissenschaftliche Abhandlungen , ' vol. 1 , p. 158 .
'Phil .
Trans 1883 , p. 935 .
S 'Phil .
Mag 1899 , vol. 48 , p. 321 ; 'Report of Advisory Committee for Aeronautics , 1909\mdash ; 1910 , p. 38 .
Molecular Constitution and gnetic S was found by Osborne Reynolds to express the resistance with fair accuracy from ( at the critical velocity ) to .
The authors ' experiments confirm this conclusion , but show that , when the range is extended to , the index law fails when applied to bhe whole range .
The paper also contains an experimental determine ation of the variation of the ratio of the mean velocity to the maximum velocity of fluids in pipes through a range in from 2500 to 72,000 , and shows that the ratio is not constant , as has been supposed , but is a function of The Influence of onstitut , and Temperature on gnetic S By A. E. OXLEY , B.A. , M.Sc .
, Coutts Trotter Student , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. J. J. Thomson , O.M. ; F.R.S. Received December 17 , ] \mdash ; Read January 29 , 1914 .
) ( Abstract .
) On the hypothesis that the molecules of liquid and crystalline substances are distorted by the forces exerted on them by the suzrounding molecules , it may be expected that the transition from the liquid to the crystalline state will be accompanied by a change in the specific magnetic property of the substances to an extent dependent upon the nature of an individual molecule and its grouping with other molecules .
* If this change of specific diamagnetic susceptibility be noted by , we may write , where and are the specific susceptibilities of the crystals and the liquid , and and are the diamagnetic moments induced in a distorted molecule of the crystalline and liquid states , respectively , by the applioation of a magnetic field H. is the number of molecules per gramme of the substance .
In the present investigations , about 20 organic substaness , most of which are of an aromatic nature , have been examined and the results are recorded in Part I of the main communication .
A large number of experiments have been made on the variation of the specific susceptibility over an interval of temperature ranging from * See ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc vol. 16 , p. 486 ( 1912 ) .

