On Nuclei in the Fertilised Embryo-sac of Lilium Martagon .
-163 " On the Presence of two Vermiform Nuclei in the Fertilised Embryo-sac of Lilium Martagon ."By Ethel Sakgant .
Communicated by Dr. D. H. Scott , F.R.S. Received April 28 , \#151 ; Read May 4 , 1899 .
In a communication to the Russian Scientific Congress , which met at Kieff , last summer , Professor S. Nawaschin summarised the brilliant results of his recent work on the fertilised embryo-sac of Lilium Mar-tagon and Fritillaria tenella ( August 30 , 1898 ) .
The report of this paper , published in the 'Botanisches Centralblatt5 for January 4 , 1899 , led Professor L4on Guignard to contribute a short account of his hitherto unpublished researches on similar stages in the life-history of some species of Lilium ( X. martagon , L. pyrenaicim , and others ) to the Academic des Sciences of Paris ( April 4 , 1899 ) .
The results thus obtained independently by two distinguished \#166 ; botanists are in perfect accord , and present the greatest theoretical interest .
They find that both the male generative nuclei on emerging from the pollen tube are elongated in shape , and that each is more or less twisted on its own axis .
The nuclei , in fact , appear to have been killed by the fixative in the act of spontaneous movement within the embryo-sac .
M. Guignard compares this motion to that of a non-ciliated antherozoid.* The " vermiform " shape can be traced in the male nucleus for some time after it has joined the nucleus of the ovum.f The most startling discovery , however , is that the second generative nucleus unites with the upper polar nucleus of the embryo-sac , and that both then fuse with the lower polar nucleus .
Thus the definitive nucleus of the embryo-sac , which later on gives rise by repeated division to the endosperm nuclei , is formed by the coalescence of three nuclei of very different origin .
One is the sister-nucleus of the male element in the fertilised ovum ; another , the sister-nucleus of the female element ; and the third has all the characters of a vegetative nucleus .
Professors Nawaschin and Guignard are in complete agreement as to these facts .
M. Guignard adds that occasionally the polar nuclei have united before the arrival of the " antherozoid , " and gives a number of figures in which the triple fusion is perfectly clear .
I am fortunate enough to possess a few preparations from the fertilised embryo-sac of Lilium Martagon , which , so far as they go , completely confirm the results of Professors Nawaschin and Guignard .
The material was fixed in absolute alcohol for researches which were never even begun , but I cut a few hand sections from it immediately * Guignard , ' Comptes Rendus , ' April 4 , 1899 , p. 3 of the separate copy , t Guignard , loc. tit .
, p. 6 and figs. 3\#151 ; 5 , 7\#151 ; 11 .
164 Nuclei in the Fertilised Embryof Lilium Martagon .
after fixing , to make sure that it really contained fertilised embryo-sacs .
Fourteen sections were kept , all of them stained with methyl green and acid fuchsin .
As this , though a brilliant , is rather a diffuse stain , I have lately re-stained eight of the preparations with Renault 's hematoxylin and eosin , which gives more precise results .
None of these preparations show the vermiform nuclei free in the embryo-sac .
In every case conjugation has already taken place ; the male nucleus is applied to the female nucleus in the micropylar end of the embryo-sac , and the second generative nucleus is applied to both polar nuclei .
In one case only the two polar nuclei are not in contact .
The much elongated " antherozoid " unites them like a bridge , one end in contact with the lower , the other end coiled round the upper nucleus ( fig. 1 , v.n ) .
micropyle .
Excluding all doubtful cases , eight embryo-sacs show the male and female nuclei not yet fused but in contact .
In six of these the male nucleus is more or less elongated .
It may be distinctly coiled ( fig. 1 , or merely horse-shoe or kidney-shaped , and commonly lies on the upper Proceedings and List of Papers read .
or lower side of the much larger female nucleus .
( See Guignard 's figs. 3 , 4 , 8 , and 10 .
) In two cases the male nucleus is rounded , or but slightly elongated .
Eight embryorsacs show the polar nuclei near the centre .
In five cases the mass is clearly made up of three nuclei , and the generative nucleus is distinguished from the other two by its irregular shape , the differentiation of a slender chromatic ribbon , and by the absence of a nucleolus .
In three embryo-sacs two resting nuclei are applied to each other near the centre .
The pollen tube is very clear in several preparations , and it commonly contains two small nuclei , stained green , and of irregular shape .
Since both generative nuclei are accounted for , these are probably due to division of the vegetative nucleus .
May 18 , 1899 .
The LOED LISTEE , F.E.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Bakerian Lecture , on " The Crystalline Structure of Metals , " was delivered by Professor Ewing , F.E.S. , and Mr. W. Eosenhain .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; X. " The Yellow Colouring Matters accompanying Chlorophyll , and their Spectroscopic Eelations .
" By C. A. Schunck , Communicated by Dr. Schunck , F.E.S. II .
" The Diffusion of Ions into Gases .
" By J. S. Townsend .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.E.S. III .
" The Diurnal Eange of Eain at the seven Observatories in connection with the Meteorological Office , 1871\#151 ; 1890 .
" By Dr. E. H. Scott , F.E.S. The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Eecess to Thursday * June 1 .
voi ... LXV .
0

