356 On the Windings of Rivers in Alluvial Plains .
[ June 2 physical science an experiment more conclusive nor an inference moi certain than this one .
Now , supposing the powder to be light enough \gt ; float in the air , and that we are enabled to see it there as plainly as ft heavier powder in the palm of the hand .
If , like the powder , su floating dust , sown in an appropriate soil , produce a definite living crc with the same logical rigour as before we should conclude that the gen of this crop must have formed a portion of the dust .
" This reasonr applies , word for word , to the development of Bacteria from the suspended particles which the luminous beam reveals in the air , and the absence of which life is never generated in previously sterilize infusions .
I respectfully submit this reasoning to Dr. Sanderson 's friendly co eider at ion .
YI .
" Experimental Demonstration in respect to the Origin Windings of Rivers in Alluvial Plains , and to the Mode Plow of Water round Bends of Pipes .
" By Profess\lt ; James Thomson , LL. D. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received June 2 1877 .
In a paper which I had the honour of submitting to the Royal Socie rather more than a year ago , and which is printed in the ' Proceeding for May 4 , 1876,1 proposed , on hydrokinetic principles , a theoretic view of the mode of flow of water round bends of rivers and of pip* and offered under that view explanations of the origin of the windin of rivers flowing through alluvial plains .
Wishing to bring under tl test of experiment the views then put forward , and to render very clear perceptible the phenomena anticipated , I constructed , in the summer 1876 , a small artificial river , about eight inches wide and an inch or t\\gt ; deep , having a bend turning about a half-round , or 180 ' , so that tl course of the river might be likened to the capital letter JJ .
The wat flowing in this river showed very completely , and very remarkably , tl phenomena which had been anticipated , and which are to be four described in the paper referred to .
The courses of the water 's flow the various parts of the river , along the bed , and at the upper surfao f$9| and at places anywhere within the body of the current , were made f * show themselves in several ways .
One way was by means of threads i j suitable length ( about an inch or two long ) , some of which were anchorc at bottom , while others were attached at various depths in the river ' pins or slender wires standing upright like thin posts in the river .
Thef threads , by the lines of direction which they assumed , showed very we \#166 ; the directions of the flow at bottom and at various depths .
Anoth* way , and one which proved very satisfactory for showing the bottom cui rents , was by dropping into the river granules of various kinds , such s On Double Salts of Nitrate of .
377 .
] nd .
and peas selected of good round form , and other small round seeds , ch as clover-seed and poppy-seed .
Granules such as these showed , ry clearly numerous phenomena , not only of the flow of the water , but so of the transmission of material-like detritus forward along the jttom in straight parts , and very obliquely across the bottom in the snd ; and gave imitations on a small scale , easy for observation , of the rocesses of accumulation of detritus along the inner banks of the bends | rivers , and presented also interesting suggestions and considerations j to some of the details or secondary actions involved in the processes * .
/ 'll , " An Attempt to form Double Salts of Nitrate of Silver and other Nitrates .
" By W. J. Russell , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Nevil Story Maskelyne , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) When a solution containing silver and potassium nitrates , in equiva-ent proportions , is evaporated , the potassium nitrate separates out , un-ombined with silver nitrate .
If , however , the ratio of silver nitrate to \gt ; otassium nitrate be increased beyond a certain limit ( which has been letermined ) , then a true double salt having the composition AgN03KN03 :rystallizes out .
The same salt can also be formed from a solution that ivould not yield it under ordinary circumstances , by either adding nitric icid or by increasing the temperature of the solution , both these alterations tending in the same direction , viz. to decrease the amount of silver nitrate as compared to that of potassium nitrate which can exist in solution .
Further it is shown , with regard to these two salts , that if an intimate mixture of them be treated with an amount of water insufficient to dissolve the whole of either constituent , still the composition of the solution found will vary with the composition of the mixture used .
This arises from the two salts uniting in solution to form the double salt , and ultimately the amount of double salt that can remain in solution depending on the excess of silver nitrate present , which , from its greater solubility , can displace the double salt from solution .
The residue in this case , from its crystalline form , can be identified as double salts .
With sodium nitrate a corresponding double salt does not form .
In this case , on evaporating the solution it is the silver nitrate , not the * .
The experiments here described were shown in the Mathematical and Physical Section of the British Association at the meeting held at Glasgow , in September 1876 , and further in the temporary collection prepared in the Helvingrove Museum at Glasgow , for that meeting of the Association .
As they were arranged expressly for testing and illustrating the theoretical views contained in a paper previously submitted to the Royal Society , the present brief account of them is offered here to the Society 88 a sequel to that previous paper .

