X. " Notes of Researches on the Polyammonias."-No .
IX .
Remnarks on anomalous Vapour-densities .
By A. W. HotrMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received July 24 , 1860 .
In a note addressed to the Royal Society * at the commencement of this year , I have shown that the molecules of the diamines , like those of all other well-examined compounds , correspond to two volumes of vapourt , and I have endeavoured to explain the apparent anomalous vapouLr-densities of the hydrated diamines by assuming that the vapour-volume experimentally obtained was a mixture of the vapouLr of the anhydrous base and of the vapour of water .
Thus , hydrated ethylene-diamine was assuimed to split under the influence of heat into anhydrous ethylene-diamine ( 2 vols .
of vapour ) and water ( 2 vols .
of vapour ) .
( C 2 114 ) " 11 C2 H1ON 20= H2 N2+ H }t .
" 2 The vapour-density of ethylene-diamine referred to hydrogen being 30 , and that of water vapour 9 , the vapour-density of a mixture of equal volumes of ethylene-diamine and water-vapour = 30+ 9= 19-.5 , 2 which closely agrees with the result of experiment .
In continuing the study of the diamines , I have expanded these experiments .
Without going into the detail of the inquiry , I beg leave to record an observationi which appears to furnish an experimenital solution to the question .
Ethylene-diamine , when submitted to the action of iodide of ethyl , yields a series of ethylated derivatives , amongst which the diethylated compound has claimed my particular attention .
This body in the anhydrous state is aii oily liqutid containing ( C2 H ) If CC H16 N2 -(C8 15)2 N2 .
" 2J With water it forms a beautiful crystalline very stable hydrate* ' , of the composition ( C2 11I4 ) " co 1118 N2 0= ( C2 1"5)2 N4 10 112 The vapour-density of the anhydrous base was found by experiment to be 57-61 , showing that the molecule of diethyl-ethylenediamine corresponds to 2 vols .
of vapour , the theoretical density 01 14 =AI being z -/ .
On submitting the crystalline hydrate to experiment , I arrived at the vapour-density 33-2 .
This number is in perfect accordalnce with the result obtained in the case of ethylene-diamine .
The leg , itimate interpretation of this number is that here again the hydrated base splits into the anhydrous diamine and water , and that the density observed is that of a mixture of equal volumes of diamine-vapour and of water-vapour , the theoretical denisity of which is 7+g=33 .
2 The correctness of this interpretation admits of an elegant experimental demonstration .
Having observed that the hydrate loses its water when repeatedly distilled with a large excess of anhydrous baryta , the idea suggested itself , to attempt the decomposition of the hydrate in the state of vapour .
If the vapour obtained by heating this hydrate to a temperature 15 ?
or 200 higher than its boiling-point actually consisted of a mixture of equal volumes of its two proximate constituents in a state of dissociation ( to use a happy term proposed by Deville ) , it appeared very probable that the volume would be halved by the introduictioni of anhydrous baryta .
Experimenit has verified this anticipation .
The upper half of a glass tube filled with , and inverted over , mercury , was surrounded by a second glass tube open at both ends and of a diameter about treble that of the former , the annular space between the two being closed at the bottom of the outer tube by a well-fitting cork .
The vessel thus formed round the upper part of the inner tube was moreover provided with a small i bent copper tube open at the top.-/ and closed at the bottom , which g / == i/ was likewise fixed in the cork .
The vessel being filled with paraffin and a lamp being applied to the copper tube , the upper part of the mercury-tube could be conveniently kept at a high and constant temperature , whilst the lower enid , immersed in the mercury-trough , remained accessible .
A glance at the figure explains the disposition of the apparatus .
A small quantity of the hydrated base was then allowed to rise on the top of the mercurv in the tube ; and the paraffin bath having been heated to i100 , the volume of the vapour was observed .
Several pellets of anhydrous baryta were then allowed to ascenid into the vapourvolume , while the temperature was maintained constant .
The mercury began immediately to rise , becoming stationary again , when a fraction of the vapour had disappeared , which amouinted , the necessary corrections being made , to half the original volume .

