III .
" On the Comparison of Transcendents , with certain applications to the Theory of Definite Integrals .
" By GEORGE BOOLE , Esq. , Professor of Mathematics in Queen 's College , Cork .
Communicated by Professor W. F. DONKIN , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) The following objects are contemplated in this paper 1st .
The demonstration of a fundamental theorem for the summation of integrals whose limits are determined by the roots of an algebraic equation .
2ndly .
The application of that theorem to the comparison of algebraical transcendents .
3rdly .
Its application to the comparison of functional transcendents , i. e. of transcendents in the differential expression of which an arbitrary functional sign is involved .
4thly .
Certain extensions of the theory of definite integrals both single and multiple , founded upon the results of the application last mentioned .
In the expression of the fundamental theorem for the summation of integrals , the author introduces a symbol , 0 , similar in its definition to the symbol employed by Cauchy in the Calculus of Residues , but involving an additional element .
The interpretation of this symbol is not arbitrary , but is suggested by the results of the investigation by which the theorem of summation is obtained .
All the general theorems demonstrated in the memoir either involve this symbol in their expression , or are immediate consequences of theorems into the expression of which it enters .
The author directly applies his theorem of summation both to the solution of particular problems in the comparison of the algebraical transcendants , and to the deduction of general theorems .
Of the 2 latter the most interesting , but not the most general , is a finite expression for the value of the sum ISO ql ndx , where q and Ai denote any rational functions of x ; the equation by which the limits of the integrals are determined being of the form " n =X , in which X is also a rational function of x. The forms of p , 4 , and X are quite unrestricted , except by the condition of rationality .
Previous known theorems of the same class , such as Abel 's , suppose 4a polynomial and specify the form of p. In the author 's result , the rational functions q , 4 , and X are not decomposed .
In a subsequent part of the paper , after investigating a general theorem applicable to the summation of all transcendents which are irrational from containing under the sign of integration any function which can be expressed as a root of an equation whose coefficients are rational functions of x , he explains , by means of it , the cause of the peculiarity above noticed .
In the section on functional transcendents , a remarkable case presents itself in which the several integrals under the sign of summation , 2 , close up , if the expression may be allowed , into a single integral taken between the limits of negative and positive infinity .
The result is an exceedingly general theorem of definite integration , by means of which it is demonstrated , that the evaluation of any definite integral of the form n wh(i-c1 - ) -a2 dxA ) in which 0 ( x ) is a rational function of x , and in which a1 a. .
a , , are positive , and X , X2. .
X are real , the number of those constants being immaterial , may be reduced to the evaluation of a definite integral of the form f ( v)f(v)dv , in which +(v ) is a rational function of v of the same order of complexity as the function O(x ) .
Two limited cases of this theorem are referred to as already known , -one due to Cauchy , the other published by the author some years ago .
The remainder of the paper is occupied with applications of the above general theorem of definite integration .
Of the Notes by which the paper is accompanied , the first discusses the connexion between the author 's symbol and Cauchy 's , and contains two theorems , one exhibiting the general solution of linear differential equations with constant coefficients , the other the general integral of rational fractions .
Both these theorems involve in their expression the symbol 0 .
The second Note is devoted to the interpretation of some theorems for the evaluation of multiple integrals , investigated in the closing section of the paper .

