Experiments made with a View to ascertain the Principle on which the Action of the Heart depends , and the Relation which subsists between that Organ and the nervous System .
By A. P. Wilson Philip , Physician in Worcester .
Communicated by Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 9 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 65 .
] The author 's ultimate object is to ascertain the manner in which certain poisons act in destroying life ; but for this purpose he found it necessary previously to determine how far the powers of the nervous and sanguiferous systems depend on each other ; and though it be generally allowed that the powers of the nervous system cannot continue long after the cessation of the circulation of the blood , the converse is not so generally admitted ; since there are persons who maintain that the nervous power may be wholly destroyed without impairing the vigour of the heart .
The present inquiry relates solely to this part of the subject , how far the power of the heart is influenced by the state of the nervous system ; and the author designs , at some future time , to investigate experimentally , by what steps certain poisons destroy the powers of both .
M. Le Gallois maintains , that though the destruction of the brain does not impair the action of the heart , it is immediately and extremely debilitated by destruction of the cervical part of the spinal marrow .
Dr. Philip , however , did not find this to be the case in his experiments , of which the first ten , performed on rabbits , relate almost exclusively to the effect of destroying the spinal marrow .
The animals were in general first rendered insensible by a blow on the occiput , after which the circulation was found to depend wholly on the continuance of respiration by artificial means , and not to be in any degree altered by subsequent removal or destruction of the spinal marrow , which was effectually done by means of a hot wire , The next experiments related to the effects upon the heart of certain stimuli applied to the brain or spinal marrow .
Spirit of wine , applied to the brain or to the upper portions of the spinal marrow , excited considerable increase of the heart 's action , but not when applied to the lumbar portion .
A watery solution of opium or infusion of tobacco also , occasioned a slight increase ; but this was soon suc.ceeded by more languid action of the heart , which , however , recovered its power as soon as these applications were washed off from the brain or spinal marrow .
When tincture of opium is applied to the hind legs of a frog , the animal is deprived of sensibility in less than a minute ; but this effect was found not to arise from the opium , but solely from the spirit of wine in which it is dissolved , which alone has the same effect , while a watery solution of opium has no such power .
But though a frog be rendered insensible by application of spirit of wine to its feet , the heart nevertheless continues to act , and its force is even increased by subsequent application of spirit of wine to the brain or spinal marrow .
The effects of opium or tobacco were also found to be the same upon frogs as they had been observed in former trials upon rabbits , In the course of these experiments it was observed , that considerable pressure either on the brain or spinal marrow , had little or no effect on the motions of the heart ; and it was further remarked , that the peristaltic motion of the intestines was not affected thereby , and indeed that it in general obeyed the same laws as those of the heart in regard to being influenced by stimuli applied to the brain or spinal marrow , but at the same time that it is not dependent on those parts for their continuance .
Since the apparent inconsistency between two facts , both well ascertained , evidently arises from some imperfection of our knowledge of the principles by which they are to be explained , the author endeavours to elucidate this subject by further experiments .
By applying strong stimuli , and repeating them , to the spinal marrow of a frog , the muscles were made to contract till their irritability was exhausted .
In a second frog the nerves supplying the muscles of one leg were divided , and the irritability of its muscles was exhausted by the application of salt to the muscles themselves ; and afterwards that of the other leg was exhausted by the same means , without dividing the nerves .
Under these different circumstances the irritability was sooner exhausted in that limb to which the nerves remained entire .
It appeared therefore , that the property of the heart , of being excitable independent of nervous influence , is common to it with other muscles ; and also its property of being excited through the medium of its nerves , although it possesses the latter in a much less degree , being sparingly supplied with nerves , because its usual stimulus is immediately applied to itself , while that of the voluntary muscles is conveyed to them from the sensorium .
And it further appears to the author , that , in the same manner , the spinal marrow is capable of performing its functions independently of the brain , yet may be influenced through the brain , the office of which is considered as purely sensorial .
The separate existence of these powers is illustrated by a review of the various classes of animals , in the lowest of which we find only the muscular system ; in the next above the muscular and nervous without sensorium ; and in the most perfect animals we find the three vital powers combined , each having existence not immediately depending on the others , but so connected that no one can subsist long without the others , since all are supported by the same circulation , that is dependent for its continuance upon muscular action , which cannot exist without respiration , while this again depends on the nervous system for its continuance .
Although the heart of a frog retains its power long after the brain and spinal marrow are removed , nevertheless Dr. Philip found that its force may be for a time extremely impaired , by suddenly crushing the brain or spinal marrow , but it will again recover its power after the entire destruction of those parts ; and corresponding effects were observed , though not so distinctly , in rabbits .
It is to this cause that the author ascribes the difference between his results and some of those of M. Le Gallois , who , instead of employing a small wire to destroy the spinal marrow , used an instrument which fitted the cavity of the spine , and consequently crushed the marrow more suddenly .
From the whole of his experiments the author concludes , that the involuntary muscles obey the same laws as those of voluntary motion ; that the difference arises from their being under different stimuli ; that both are liable to be stimulated through the nervous system ; that they each have power independent of that system .
That what has been called nervous system consists of two parts , one purely sensorial , the other conveying impressions .
That the three powers are combined in the most perfect animals .
That the muscular may be destroyed through the nervous system , and the nervous through the sensorial ; and though each is not strictly dependent on the others , they are so connected that no one can exist long without the others .

