INDEX SLIP .
Major , C. I. Forsyth.\#151 ; Extinct Mammalia from Madagascar .
I.\#151 ; Mega-lad apis insignis , sp. n. Pliil .
Trans. , B , vol. 193 , 1900 , pp. 47-50 .
Megaladapis insignis , sp. n. Extinct Madagascar Mammal , Teeth of .
Major , C. I. Forsyth .
Phil. Trans. , B , vol. 193 , 1900 , pp. 47-50 .
t 47 ] III .
Extinct Mammalia from Madagascar.\#151 ; I. Megaladapis insignis , sp. n. By C. I. Forsyth Major , F.Z.S. Communicated by Henry Woodward , .
, , Pres. Pal .
S. Received February 28 , \#151 ; Read April 5 , 1900 .
[ Plate 6 .
] Under the above general title I propose to give a detailed systematic description of some remains of sub-fossil Malagasy Mammalia , partly collected by myself , and partly acquired by the Geological Department of the British Museum before and after my journey .
They include evidence of Primates , Carnivora , Chiroptera , Insectivora , and Bodentia .
The present paper deals with a small number of teeth , preserved in several fragments of the upper and lower jaw , apparently of a single specimen of a new species of Megaladapis ( M. insignis , sp. n. ) .
The main interest of these remains , which are unfortunately scanty , consists in the remarkably perfect condition of nearly all the teeth , and in their revealing a truly gigantic form of Lemuroid .
From the close agreement in the pattern of the teeth with those of Megaladapis madagas-cariensis formerly described , * it is presumed that the skull of the new species was also very similar to that of the latter , t Of upper true molars , the two posterior , m. 3 , m. 2 , of the left , and the last , m. 3 , of the right side , are preserved , all in a beautiful state , which allows of a somewhat more detailed description than in the case of Megaladapis madagascariensis .
The main feature of these upper molars is three cusps , two outer , " 4 , " " 5 , " and an inner one , " 6 .
" The anterior of the former two projects outwards and inwards from the outer wall , while the posterior does not project at all outwards , but extends more inwards than the anterior cusp .
The antero-external angle of both teeth is occupied * C. I. Forsyth Major , " On Megaladapis madagascariensis , an Extinct Gigantic Lemuroid from Madagascar , " ' Roy .
Soc. London Proc. , ' vol. 54 , pp. 176-179 ( 1893 ) ; ' Phil. Trans. Roy .
Soc. London , ' B , vol. 185 , pp. 15-38 ( 1894 ) ; Id. , " On the Brains of Two Sub-fossil Malagasy Lemuroids , " 'Roy .
Soc. London Proc. , ' vol. 62 , pp. 46-50 ( 1897 ) .
t A model to scale of M. insignis , based upon the skull and lower jaw of M. madagascariensis , was exhibited .
The scale is that of the actual teeth of M. insignis , the restored parts upon the skull and lower jaw of an existing species of lemur .
11.7.1900 by a minor cusp , " 1 , " " parastyle , " separated from cusp " 4 " by a folding of the enamel .
From cusp " 1 " an outer basal cingulum takes origin , which in m. 2 is very strong and borders the whole of the outer base of the tooth ; in m. 3 it is much less developed in the anterior moiety of the tooth .
On the middle of the outer side of both molars the cingulum swells into a cusp , " 2 " ( Osborn 's mesostyle ) , which , however , does not reach the level of the triturating surface .
The single cusp , " 6 , " on the inner side of the two teeth , has the shape of a crescent ; its anterior horn forms the antero-internal border of the crown , and joins outwards a ridge which from cusp " 1 " runs inwards , thus forming the external part of the anterior border .
The posterior horn of cusp " 6 " is joined by a crest running from the postero-external cusp " 5 .
" A strong basal cingulum occupies the posterior side of both teeth , and extends as well on part of the inner .
There is likewise a cingulum of limited extent at the base of the antero-internal angle of both teeth .
Each of the three main cusps is supported by a root , the inner one being the strongest , and double the length ( horizontally ) of each of the outer roots .
Among recent Lemuroidea , the upper molars of the Malagasy genus Lepidolemur come very close in shape to those of the fossil , the main differences being the following .
The outer border of the crown-surface in the molars of Lepidolemur forms nearly a straight line , almost parallel with the long axis of the skull , and their outer side is slightly concave inwards .
A weak outer basal cingulum is present , but no trace of cusp " 2 , " and the antero-external cusp " 1 " is scarcely accentuated .
The antero- internal cingulum also is missing in the molars of Lepidolemur .
Whereas in Megaladapis m. 2 is the largest of the true molars , it is the smallest in Lepidolemur .
Upper Premolars.\#151 ; The two posterior premolars , p. 1 and p. 2 , like the molars , are both provided with three roots , a single stout one internally , and two smaller on the outer side .
They both exhibit one principal outer cusp and an antero-external basal cusp ; in an unworn condition a postero-external cusp probably is present .
The two teeth present the following differences from each other .
The posterior premolar , p. 1 , is stouter and broader ( i.e. , more extended transversely ) ; its contour is approximately quadrangular , whereas p. 2 is triangular with the apex on the inner side .
P. 1 exhibits a strong crescentic internal cone , placed obliquely ; the posterior margin of the tooth is raised into a ridge .
Basal cingula are visible on the antero-external , antero-internal , and postero-external angles , the former two rather indistinct .
The internal cone of p. 2 is weak , but bicuspid , the two small cusps being situated on an oblique line .
The anterior premolar , p. 3 , is a unicuspidate , caniniform tooth , with slightly recurved tip , which overtops the posterior premolars .
It is provided with a weak anterior basal cusp ; its posterior part is strongly worn by the action of the lower premolar , so that the dentine is laid bare to a considerable extent .
This tooth has ON EXTINCT MAMMALIA FROM MADAGASCAR .
only one compressed root , which , however , is indistinctly partitioned on the external side by a groove .
In the skull of Megaladapis the alveolus of the anterior premolar is preserved on the right side , exhibiting two sockets.* In the fossil under consideration there is a diastema 17 millims. in length between the anterior premolar and the canine .
The enamel-clad portion of the latter is broken off ; the section exhibited shows the tooth to be somewhat laterally compressed , and to have been apparently provided with a posterior basal cusp .
The internal view of the jaw-fragment shows the fang of the canine strongly curved backward .
Last Lower Molar.\#151 ; A last posterior molar , m. 3 , is preserved in a fragment of the right ramus of the lower jaw .
Its pattern is absolutely identical with the corresponding tooth of M. madagascariensis , the main feature being two pairs of cusps obliquely situated , the internal ones directed slightly backwards , and a very strong posterior talon placed in the middle line .
The rather low postero-internal cusp is connected by a small ridge with the crescentic postero-external cusp .
The antero-internal cusp , the highest of all , shows an indication of a secondary cusp on its postero-internal slope ; it joins the antero-external cusp by means of a short transverse ridge .
A small anterior valley opens inwards ; but there is no distinctly developed " paraconid .
" The outer margin of the tooth exhibits a basal cingulum , partitioned into a larger anterior and a smaller posterior portion .
The tooth is provided with two roots , which are exposed on the inner side ; the posterior one is very much lengthened horizontally , and shows a vertical outer and inner groove .
The corresponding tooth of Lepidolemur differs from\ the one described by having no isolated postero-internal cusp .
Measurements in Millimetres .
Megaladapis madagascariensis .
M. insignis Length of upper p. i. . . .
io- 12* 33 33 P. 2 ... .
10-3 13* 33 33 P* 3 . . . .
\#151 ; 13*2 33 33 m. 1 . . . .
13-5 \#151 ; 33 33 m. 2 . . . .
17-18* 24*8 33 33 m. 3 . . . .
17*8-18'5 27*5 Breadth of 33 m. 1 . . . .
12*7 \#151 ; 33 33 m. 2 ... .
15*8 21* 33 33 m. 3 .
14*6-15*5 24*5 Length of lower m. 3 . . . .
23*5 39* Greatest breadth of lower m. 3 .
\#151 ; 17* * Op. plate 7 , fig. 8 .
VOL. CXCIII.\#151 ; B. H The approximate length of the skull of madagascariensis is 250 millims. The size of the teeth in the new species leads to the conclusion that it was at least one-third larger than the former , thus giving the approximate length of 030 millims. for the skull of Megaladapis ins Fig. X. Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .
Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
Fig. 9 .
Explanation of Plate 6 .
( All Figures natural size .
) Anterior portion of left maxilla , showing the three premolars and base of the canine .
Outer view .
The same ; palatal view .
Posterior portion of left maxilla , showing the two posterior true molars .
Outer view .
The same ; palatal view .
Fragment of right mandibular ramus , with last molar .
Inner view .
The same ; outer view .
Upper view of last molar .
Anterior lower premolar .
Outer view .
The same ; inner view .
rm.3 m.z * * ' 171.3 GMiWoodward d el .
et 1 ith .
Weat , Newman 'imp MEGALADAPIS INSIGNIS , sp. tlokt

