4 .
" On the frequent occurrence of Indigo in Human Urine , and on its Chemical and Physiological Relations .
" By Arthur Hill Hassall , M.D. , Physician to the Royal Free Hospital , &amp;c. Communicated by Professor Sharpey , F.R.S. Received June 9 , 1853 .
The author was led to the investigations laid before the Society in the above communication , by the following circumstances : Some three or four years since , when examining urinary deposits under the microscope , he frequently observed in the field of vision particles of a deep blue colour ; so often did this occur , that he could not even then help suspecting that their presence was not accidental ; however , no analysis of the blue colouring matter was made at that time , and the circumstance was in a fair way of being forgotten , until the recollection of it was revived by another occurrence .
In June 1852 , a sample of urine , freely exposed to the air in an open vessel , was observed after four or five days ' exposure , gradually to change colour ; the pellicle or scum which had formed upon the surface of the urine became first slate-coloured , and at length deep blue , with here and there a rusty-red tint .
T'he urine also underwent at the same time some remarkable changes ; it became thick and turbid , deep brown , greenish , bluish-green , and finally of a faded yellowish-green colour ; a considerable sediment was found at the bottom of the glass ; this was deep brown , intermixed with a little blue colouring matter , and it had a medicinal smell resembling somewhat that of Valer'ian .
In this state , without undergoing any further material changes , the urine remained for many days .
Examined with the microscope , the scum or pellicle on the surface was found to consist of vibriones , innumerable animalcules , and crystals of triple phosphate , with a great many fragments and granules of a deep and bright blue colour .
A second sample of the same urine was therefore procured , taking every precaution to avoid fallacy .
Gradually the same changes ensued as in the first sample , and this likewise became blue .
Having thus ascertained that the changes observed were due to something contained in the urine itself , the author next proceeded to set aside in open vessels , a series of urines all from the same patient , noting the alterations which occurred from day to day ; these samples underwent nearly similar changes ; but the quantity of blue colouring matter and brown extractive gradually diminished , until at length they were present in such small amount as to be visible only under the microscope , and at last they entirely disappeared .
The results obtained from an examination of the urine , the blue colouring matter and the brown extractive , are then given by the author ; they are as follow : The urine.-The urine of the second sample at the time of analysis , when shaken , had a dark , greenish-brown colour ; but on standing at rest for some time , the colouring matter fell to the bottom , forming bluish-green flocculi , while the supernatant liquid was of a deep wine-red colour .
The bottle was set aside corked , for ten days , at the end of which time the bluish-green precipitate had entirely disappeared ; but on removing the cork , and allowing free access of air for some time , the coloured deposit was again produced .
This was washed with water , drenched with hydrochloric acid , and finally dried ; by this means was obtained a rich blue powder possessing all the chemical characters and properties of indigo .
The urine that was filtered off from the above precipitate was allowed to evaporate spontaneously , by which means it yielded an additional quantity of indigo , which adhered in the form of very small flakes to the sides of the dish .
It also gave a rather large proportion of a deliquescent brown colouring matter , which was treated , first with alcohol , and then with water .
The alcohol acquired a deep brownish-red colour , and the water a dark brownish-green .
Both of these solutions were evaporated at a temperature of 160 ?
Fahr. The alcoholic solution furnished a rich brown extractive which was soluble in water , but not in dilute acids , and nitric acid did not produce that play of colours which is characteristic of bile pigment ; nor did the precipitate formed with basic acetate of lead furnish a purple liquid with alcohol and free acid .
A strong solution of potash dissolved the extractive and yielded a deep blood-red fluid , which was rendered green and opalescent by boiling .
These reactions show that the brown pigment was somewhat like heematin in its chemical manifestations .
While the aqueous solution of the brown matter was undergoing evaporation , it gave a further supply of indigo , which was formed most freely at the edge of the liquid .
The residue was made black by concentrated sulphuric acid and deep brown by potash .
The blue colouring matter.-Of two samples of this in a dry state , mixed with a large quantity of earthy phosphates , vibriones , mucus , and epithelium , one gave a dark brown solution with concentrated sulphuric acid ; and the other a dirty blue .
Both of these solutions were decomposed by water , furnishing in the former case a dark brown deposit , and in the latter a dirty green .
In most of their other reactions , however , they presented the characters of indigo ; and it is especially deserving of notice , that they were reduced by lime and sugar , giving a.liquid from which hydrochloric acid threw down a greenish-blue precipitate .
The cause of concentrated sulphuric acid giving with one of these samples a brown solution , and with the other only a dirty blue , was , the author considers , mainly owing to the large quantity of animal matter with which the specimens were contaminated ; the acid , from its charring effect on this , would produce a brown or blackish solution , thus obscuring the colour of the solution of'indigo .
The brown extractive.-The brown extractive yielded nearly the same results as on its first analysis , and the aqueous solution furnished a few blue flocculi .
A portion of the alcoholic extract was heated with Liq .
Potasse for the purpose of ascertaining whether it contained leucine , and the product , on being treated with hydrochloric acid , gave off a powerful odour , which was somewhat like valerianic acid ; but the result was too doubtful to be of much value .
The author had already referred to the peculiar smell of Valerian emitted by the extractive of more than one of the samples .
He considers that the clearest and most positive evidence was thus obtained that the blue colouring matter in this case was indigo .
It was not very long after the occurrence of the first case of blue urine that numerous other instances fell under the author 's observation .
The urines of all these cases underwent very nearly the same changes as in the first ; in some , the quantity of blue colouring matter found was very considerable , in others less ; and in the thiVd class of cases the microscope was necessary for its discovery .
In nearly all these cases the blue colouring matter was submitted to analysis , and ascertained , on the clearest evidence , to be indigo .
The author in the next place considers the question of the source and origin of indigo in the urine .
It appeared that in the cases related by the author , coloured indigo was not present in urine when first voided , but that it was gradually formed some time afterwards by a process of oxidation on exposure to the air , being in most of the cases probably derived from the brown extractive , which in its chemical manifestations so closely resembles heematin .
The author contrasts cyanourine with the indigo detected in urine .
He observes that the most distinctive tests laid down for cyanourine are its solubility in boiling alcohol , and the action of sulphuric acid upon it , which give a reddish-brown solution ; and states he had ascertained that these tests are not to be relied upon , since indigo , when contaminated ( as in the urine it frequently is ) with a large quantity of animal matter , vibriones , &amp;c. , gives a reddish-brown solution with concentrated sulphuric acid , from the charring of the animal matter , and in many cases forms a bright blue solution with boiling absolute alcohol ; hence he could not help suspecting that cyanourine and indigo are very closely connected with each other , if they be not identical .
He observes , it is at least singular that while so many cases of indigo were met with , not a single instance of cyanourine presented itself .
He also contrasts indigo with apoglaucin , and temarks that this is acknowledged by Heller himself to be nothing more than cyanourine mixed with urrhodin .
Taking then into consideration the whole of the facts described in this communication , the following conclusions are deduced:1st .
That blue indigo is frequently formed in human urine , the quantity being subject to the greatest variation ; jn some cases it is so considerable as to impart a deep green , or bluish-green colour to the whole urine ; a pellicle of nearly pure indigo also extending over the entire surface of the liquid ; while in others it is so small that it can only-be detected by means of the microscope .
2nd .
That for the formation of this indigo , it is in general necessary that the urine should be exposed to the air for some days in an open vessel , oxygen being absorbed and the blue indigo developed .
TWhatever facilitates therefore oxygenation , as free exposure to light and air , warmth and sunshine , hastens the appearance of the blue indigo ; hence in summer the changes described take place much more quickly than in winter ; on the contrary , these changes are retarded and even stayed by exclusion of the atmosphere .
Blue indigo may even be deprived of its colour and reformed , alternately , according as air is excluded or admitted to urine containing it .
From some of the cases recorded , it would appear , however , that blue indigo is occasionally formed in the system , and is voided as such in the urine .
3rd .
That there is usually found with the blue indigo , where the amount of this is considerable , a brown extractive , sometimes in large quantity , the aqueous solution of which , by exposure to air , yields a further supply of coloured indigo , and which closely resembles hmematin in its chemical manifestations and elementary composition .
There is therefore great reason for believing that in the majority of the cases here recorded , the blue indigo was derived from altered hxematin , although it is at the same time probable , that in some cases it is formed from modified urine pigment which is itself supposed to be a modification of heematin .
Between the greater number of the animal colouring matters there is the closest relationship in chemical composition , so that the transformation of the one into the other would appear to be both easy and natural .
4thly .
That the urines in which the coloured indigo occurs in the largest quantity , are usually of a pale straw colour , readily becoming turbid , alkaline , and of low specific gravity .
Small quantities of indigo are however frequently found in urines possessing characters the very reverse , that is , in such as are high-coloured , acid , and of high specific gravity ; but , as a rule , in these urines the blue pigment is usually absent .
5thly .
That as coloured indigo does not occur in healthy urine , and since where the amount of this is at all considerable it is accompanied with strongly-marked symptoms of deranged health , the formation of blue indigo in urine must be regarded as a strictly pathological phenomenon , apparently associated rather with some general morbid condition , than essentially with disease of any one organ ; although there is reason for believing that the blue deposit is met with very frequently in Bright 's disease , and in affections of the organs of respiration , it should however be remarked that none of the worst cases of indigo in the urine which the author met with were cases of Bright 's disease .
The paper is illustrated by drawings , and a specimen of the indigo , as deposited from urine , was exhibited .

