j On Alternating Electric Currents .
255 and that there is concealed within it , as a sacred mystery , the true value of the precession of the Equinox .
Chapter I.__On the revolutions of the celestial bodies ; their mean sidereal and synodic periods , as compared with the same elements in modern tables .
Mean places at a given time .
On the Earth 's diameter , \amp ; c. On the Moon 's horizontal parallax and distance from the Earth .
A theory deducing the orbits of the planets and the extent of the Universe , or Brahmanda , from the Moon 's daily rate of motion in her orbit .
Theory regarding the causes of the planetary motions , \amp ; c. Chapter II.\#151 ; On trigonometrical formulae known to the Hindoos .
The construction of their tables of sines and versed sines .
On the epicycle and its deferent , and on the eccentric and concentric , used for calculating the " true " place of a planet from the mean place .
Chapter III.\#151 ; Problems in astronomy , on time , ascensional difference , declination , celestial longitude , horoscope , \amp ; c. Chapters IV , V , VI.\#151 ; The calculation and projection of lunar and solar eclipses .
Conjunctions , heliacal risings and settings , stars of the Zodiac , \amp ; c. , The lunisolar year , \amp ; c. The cycle of Jupiter of 60 years .
V. " Repulsion and Rotation produced by Alternating Electric Currents .
" By Gr .
T. Walker , B.A. , B.Sc. , bellow ot Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prot .
J. .1 .
Thomson , F.R.S. Received November 5 , 1891 .
'(Abstract .
) In the 'Electrical World , ' May , 1887 , p. 258 , or the 'Electrical Engineer ' ( New York ) , June , 1887 , p. 211 , " Novel Phenomena of Alternating Currents , " may be seen an account of some experiments by Professor Elihu Thomson on the mechanical force between conductors in which alternating currents are circulating .
In the case of a ring of metal in the presence of an electromagnet , in the coils of which an alternating current is passing , a force of repulsion is experienced by the ring , which may be explained as follows :\#151 ; Were the induced currents in the closed conductor unaffected by self-induction , the only phenomena exhibited would be alternate equal attractions and repulsions .
This may be illustrated by fig. 1 .
Here the strong line represents the primary and the thin the secondary , while of the dotted line any 256 On Alternating Electric .
[ Dec. 10 , ordinate represents the product of the ordinates of the other lines , and hence represents the mechanical force of attraction or repulsion .
In the case of self-induction causing a lag , shift , or retardation of phase of the secondary current , there is a repulsion due to the sum-mative effects of strong opposite currents for a lengthened period against an attraction due to the summative effects of weak currents of the same direction during a shortened period , the resultant effect being a greatly preponderating repulsion .
The diagram for this is fig. 2 .
Professor Thomson has shown , experimentally , that two circular coils , whose planes are perpendicular Fie .
2 .
to the line joining their centres , repel one another when an alternating current traverses one of them , and that if they be placed with their centres coincident and planes making an acute angle , there will be a couple tending to increase that angle .
As these results have been used as means of measuring alternating Presents .
1891 .
] currents , I have calculated in S 1 expressions for the intensities of the force and couple respectively .
Another experiment is the following:\#151 ; A sheet of copper is placed so as to half cover an alternating magnetic pole .
Upon this , near the pole , is laid a hollow sphere of copper .
The electromagnetic action produces a couple so powerful that the friction of rotation is overcome , and the sphere spun round .
In order to throw light on this , after a theorem in S 2 as to the kind of currents set up in a conductor , I have considered a number of cases .
A thin circular infinite cylindrical shell lies in an alter-nating field of currents parallel to its axis , and the couple upon it is found .
The result is applied to give the couples on two such shells in the presence of a parallel current and of a pair of currents forming an electromagnet .
The couple in action upon a thin spherical shell in a general periodic field , has next been found , and is applied to give the couples on two thin shells under the influence of\#151 ; ( i. ) An alternating current in a straight infinite wire .
( ii .
) A pair of such currents forming an electromagnet .
( iii .
) An alternating magnetic pole .
( iv .
) An alternating electromagnet of very short length .
It transpires that , whatever the field in action upon the cylinder and sphere ( the former consisting of currents parallel to the axis ) , there will be no couple if the field be completely in one phase .
Thus , the sphere of Professor Thomson is made to spin because the currents induced in the copper plate do not coincide in phase with those of the magnet , and not ( as has been stated ) because it acts as a screen and renders the field unsymmetrical .
Were the plate a perfect conductor , it would be a perfect screen , but there would be no couple .
Presents , December 10 , 1891 .
Transactions .
American Association for the Advancement of Science .
Proceedings .
1890 .
8vo .
Salem 1891 .
The Association .
Athens :\#151 ; National Library .
K\#171 ; Td\o\lt ; y\#169 ; s rw YiOvuctj 's ^\#163 ; if}\ioOrjKrjs jrjs'E\\af)os.\#151 ; 'Vfiijfia \lt ; y( .
d ?
4to .
Athens 1890 .
The Library .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
Vol. X. Nos. 89-91 .
4to .
Baltimore 1891 ; Studies ( Historical and Political Science ) .
Series 9 .
Nos. 7\#151 ; 10 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1891 ; Theses .
1890-91 .
8vo .
Baltimore .
The University .
Peabody Institute .
Annual Report , 1891 .
8vo .
Baltimore .
The Institute .

