I. " On the Equation for the Product of the Differences of all but one of the Roots of a given Equation .
" By ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received November 30 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) It is easy to see that for an equation of the order n , the product of the differences of all but one of the roots will be determined by an equation of the order n , the coefficients of which are alternately rational functions of the coefficients of the original equation , and rational functions multiplied by the square root of the discriminant .
In fact , if the equation be w= ( a , ... v , l)-n=a(v-a)(v--f). .
, then putting for the moment a== 1 , and disregarding numerical factors , V/ , the square root of the discriminant , is equal to the product of the differences of the roots , and act is equal to ( a--3)(a-y ) ... , consequently the product of the differences of the roots , all but a , is equal to V/ --'a , and the expression is the root of an equation of the order n , the coefficients of which are rational functions of the coefficients of the original equation .
I propose in the present memoir to determine the equation in question for equations of the orders three , four , and five : the process employed is similar to that in my memoir " On the Equation of Differences for an equation of any Order , and in particular for Equations of the Orders Two , Three , Four , and Five , " Phil. Trans. t. cl. p. 112 ( 1860 ) , viz. the last coefficient of thegiven equation is put equal to zero , so that the given equation breaks up into v=0 and into an equation of the order n-I called the reduced equation ; and this being so , the required equation breaks up into an equation of the order n-1 ( which , however , is not , as for the equation of differences , that which corresponds to the reduced equation ) and into a linear equation ; the equation of the order n--1 is calculated by the method of symmetric functions ; and combining it with the linear equation , which is known , we have the required equation , except as regards the terms involving the last coefficient , which terms are found by the consideration that the coefficients of the required equation are seminvariants .
The solution leads immediately to that of a more general question ; for if the product of the differences of all the roots except a , of the given equation 9v=( 3v , 1)}=a^(v--a)(v--f ) ... =0 ( which product is a function of the degree n-2 in regard to each of the roots 3 y3 .
) .
is multiplied by ( x-ay)i-2 , the function so obtained will be the root of an equation of the order n , the coefficients of which are covariants of the quantic ( a-Cx , y)n , and these coeffcients can be at once obtained by writing , in the place of the seminvariants of the former result , the covariants to which they respectively belong .
In the case of the quintic equation , one of these covariants is , in regard to the coefficients , of the degree 6 , which exceeds the limit of the tabulated covariants , the covariant in question has therefore to be now first calculated .
The covariant equations for the cubic and the quartic might be deduced from the formule Nos. 119 and 142 of my Fifth memoir on Quantics , Phil. Trans. t. cxlviii .
pp. 415-427 ( 1858 ) ; they are in fact the bases of the methods which are there given for the solution of the cubic and the quartic equations respectively ; and it was in this way that I was led to consider the problem which is here treated of .

