" Contributions to the Physiology of Vision .
" By Charles Wheatstone , Esq. , F.R.S. , Professor of Experimental Philosophy in King 's College , London .
Part the First .
" On some remarkable and hitherto unobserved Phenomena of Binocular Vision .
" The author first shows that the perspective projections of an object upon the two retinae differ according to the distance at which the object is placed before the eyes ; if it be placed so distant that to view it the optic axes must be parallel , the two projections are precisely similar ; but if it be placed so near that to regard it the op ?
tic axes must converge , a different perspective projection is presented to each eye ; and these j^erspectives become more dissimilar as the convergence of the optic axes becomes greater .
Notwithstanding this dissimilarity between the two pictures , which is in some cases very great , the object is still seen single ; contrary to the very prevalent metaphysical opinion , that the single appearance of objects seen by both eyes is owing to their pictures falling on corresponding points of the two retinse .
After establishing these principles , the author proceeds to ascertain what would result from presenting the two monocular perspectives , drawn on plane surfaces , to the two eyes , so that they shall fall on the same parts of the two re ?
tinse as the projections from the object itself would have fallen .
Seve ?
ral means are described by which this may be accomplished ; but the author especially recommends for this purpose an apparatus called by him a stereoscope , which enables the observer to view the resulting appearances without altering the ordinary adaptation of the eyes .
and therefore without subjecting these organs to any strain or fatigue .
It consists of two plane mirrors with their backs inclined to each other at an angle of 90 ?
, near the faces of which the two monocular pictures are so placed that their reflected images are seen by the two eyes , one placed before each mirror , in the same place ; the apparatus has various adjustments by means of which the mag ?
nitude of the images on the retinae may be varied , and the optic axes differently converged .
If the two monocular pictures be thus presented one to each eye , the mind will perceive , from their com ?
bined effect , a figure of three dimensions , the exact counterpart of the object from which the pictures were drawn ; to show that this curious illusion does not in the least depend on shading or colouring , the illustrations principally employed are simple outline figures , which give for their perceived resultants skeleton forms of three di ?
mensions .
Each monocular outline figure is the representation of two dissimilar skeleton forms , one being the form which it is intended to re ?
present , and another , which Prof. Wheatstone calls its converse figure Viewed by one eye alone the outline may with equal ease be imagined to be either ; but when the two monocular pictures are viewed one by each eye , the proper or the complemental form may be fixed in the mind ; the former , if the right and left pictures be presented respectively to the right and left eyes ; and the latter , if the right pic ?
ture be presented to the left eye , and the left picture to the right eye .
Many new experiments are then detailed , and a variety of instances of false perception of visual objects , some new , others former ?
lie observed , are traced to these principles ; among others , the wellknown apparent conversion of cameos into intaglios .
The author next proceeds to show that pictures similar in form but differing in magnitude within certain limits , when presented one to each eye , are perceived by the mind to be single and of intermediate size ; and also that when totally dissimilar pictures , which cannot be combined by the mind into the resemblance of any accustomed objects , are presented one to each eye , they are in general not seen together , but alternately .
The memoir concludes with a review of the various hypotheses which have been advanced to account for our seeing objects single with two eyes ; and the author states his views respecting the influence which these newly developed facts are calculated to have on the decision of this much debated question .

