]\gt ; Functions and their Expansion in Terms Biorthogonal Functions .
By J. MERCER , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow and Lecturer of Christ 's Collego , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. E. W. Hobson , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received April 12 , 1920 .
) The purpose of this communication is to announce certain results relative to the expansion of a symmetrisable function in terms of a complete biorthogonal system of fundamental functions , * which belong to arded as the kernel of a linear integral equation .
An indication of the method by which bhe results have been obtained is lJiven , but no is made to supply detailed proofs .
Explanations .
S1 .
Let bc a fUmction defined in the squaro .
If a function can be found which is of positive type in the square .
and such that is a symmetric function of and is said to be ctrisable othe left by in the square .
Similarly , if a function of positive type can be found such that is a symmetric function of and is said to be ctrisable otic by Iu general theory the function by which is symmetrisable is usually assumed to be definite .
S The result is that the theory is only applicable * For the definition of a fundamental function , reference may be made to Goursat , ' Course d'Analyse , ' vol. 3 , S568 .
For brevity , conditions as to summability , etc. , are not stated in this section .
There will be no difficulty in supplying these conditions .
In what follows , functions symmetrisable on the left will be considered almost exclusively .
S Lalesco , 'Introduction a la Theory des Equations Integrales , ' p. 78 ( 1912 ) ; also Goursat , ' Course d'Analyse , ' vol. 3 , S696 , pp. 466-8 ( 1914 ) .
Marty ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' t. 150 , p. 1031 ) , at first imposed only the condition that the function should be of positive type .
He found , however , that this condition was too wide as a basis for a general theory see footnote , op .
cit , p. 1600 ) .
For the definition of the term " " definite vi\amp ; Goursat , , S6901 .
Dr. J. Mercer .
Functions their to particular forms of the two most importa types of symmetrisable function .
* order to remove this blemish the notion of \ldquo ; completely\ldquo ; symmetrisable function has been introduced .
Further justification for this departure from the usual practice will be found in the expansion theorems stated below .
Let be symmetrisable on the left by .
The function will be said to be compl etely symmetrisable on the Teft by if either ( i ) no solution of a homogeneous integral equation of the type exists ; or ( ii ) this equation can be solved for one or more values of , but no solution is such that .
In the first case , considered as the kernel of a linear integral equation , has no singular value : in the second case it has al least one vular value .
As an example consider , where is of positive type in the square , and is a function defined in the interyal .
It may be verified that is completely } ) on the left by , and is completely symmetrisable on the right by .
This function is associated with the name of Hilbert .
A second example is furnished by where is as before , and is any function which is symmetric in the square this case is completely symmetrisable on the left by , and is completely symmetrisable on the right by This type of symmetrisable function was indicated by Marty .
* These are described at the end of this paragraph .
Vide 'Grundzuge einer allgemeinen Theory der linearen Integralgleichungen , pp. 195-204 ( 1912 ) .
The generalisation was pointed out by Goursat .
Comptes Rendus , ' t. 150 , p. 1600 ( 1910 ) , footnote .
Expansion in Terms of Biorthogonal Functions .
S2 .
The following properties of a kernel which is completely symmetrisable on the left by can be ( i ) Eithcr has at lc ( ii ) A of is nccessarily real .
( iii ) A pole of the necessarily simplc .
( iv ) , and lct of singular values of that of times to the order of the nlar considcred as a zero of the detcrof .
to a a , salisfrJ homoycnco and that no linear equation functioms or to the } , Moreovpajirs functions , can in snch a ?
)th , ( 1 ) forms onst ' of metions for intjrbal and ( II ) , where is positive The functions can be so chosen that is unity , bub it appears to be advisable not to do this , in order to preserve symmetry in statements of certain results .
In the of a function completely on both sides there will be a number , whers , and ib is supposed that the function is symmetrisable on the .
It is possible to choose the biorthogonal system in such a way that is always unity , or that is always unity .
In general , however , it is not possible 10 secure that and are both unity .
S *The proofs follow closely those given by Lalesco , op .
cit. , pp. 80-82 .
Reciprocal function , solving function .
It is understood by this that or 1 , according or S Lalesco ( op .
cit. , p. 84 ) appears to have overlooked this fact .
Dr. J. Mercer .
Functions and their The functions ( 1 ) having the properties stated in ( iv ) will be called .
functions kernel .
SD The results stated in the preceding paragraph may be regarded as generalisations of the corresponding well-known results for a symmetric function .
* It is therefore natural to enquire how far the expansion theorems ( e.g. , those of Hilbert and Schmidt ) connected with the symmetric function can be extended to the more general class .
The most important published results in this direction have been obtained by Pell and Garb .
The first writer develops a theory of biorthogonal systems of functions , and upon this basis establishes an expansion theorem .
From the point of view here adopted the most interesting feature of the theorem is its application to the function .
It follows , in fact , that when is of this form any function which can bc expressed as admits of an expansion , where is such thab , and the series in the brackets is absolutely and uniformly convergent .
The function may be zero , and certainly will be so when is definite .
GarbeS proves that when the statements just made are also valid .
He then restricts to be " " emein \ldquo ; and proves that under this condition can be expanded in symmetric function is completely symmetrisable on either side by the iterated function .
" " Applications of Biorthogonal Systems of Functions to the Theory of Integral Equations 'Trans .
Amer .
Math. Soc 1911 , , S4 .
The condition , p. 167 , and the footnote on p. 165 , should be noted in connection with the definition of a completely symmetrisable function given above .
In virtue of this condition the theorem lacks generality in its statement .
'Mathematische Annalen , ' vol. 76 , pp. 533-4 ( 1914-15 ) .
S Garb does not impose any restriction upon .
Hilbert , op .
, p. 25 .
The term is somewhat misleading , since " " adlgemein\ldquo ; kernels are a very restricted class .
Pp .
538-542 , Garb states the result in a slightly different form .
Expansion Terms of Functions .
A result of this kind is suggested by the known expansion of symmetric function of positive type in terms of its fundamental functions .
* It is easy to see , however , that expansion which contains only terms of the form is not valid for all symmetrisable functions , not even for the comparatively simple ones of the Hilbert typc .
In the following raph an example is given in justification of this statement .
The example will also serve as an existence theorem in connection with ] ) general forms of expansion given below .
S4 .
Let ; and let , , , be ulctions defined as follows:\mdash ; , , , , where .
Thon il may be verified that ' , ( 2 ) is a system of functionls for the interval ; that is an orthogonal systeiu of metions for the same interval ; and thal each of the pairs of functions is orthogonal for the interval , whatever be the value of It will be found that and are not orthogonal .
Let , ( 3 ) and let , ( 4 ) 'Phil .
Trans , ' Series , vol. 209 , pp. 439-446 .
It is stood by this that or 1 , according as , or I.e. , for , 2 , and , 2 .
Dr. J. Mercer .
Symmetrisable Functions and their are any real positive bers .
It will be clear that , where is of } ) ositive type in the square .
Inspection of the expression which defines will show that it consists of four kernels , any one of which is orthogonal* to each of the other three .
this it follows that the resolvent corresponding to is and hence that the system ( 2 ) is a connplete biorthogonal system of fundalnental functions for .
It will now be seen that contains terms which are of a character totally different from that of the terms S .
A more precise account of the results which have been obtained can nuw be given .
In S7 below it is shown that , if is completely symmetrisable on the left by , then admits of an expansion of the form ( 3 ) .
In general the expansion will contain an infinite number of terms of the type and an infinite number of terms of the type .
When either or both sets of terms is infinite , it is shown that , under very general conditions , the infinite series corresponding to such a set is absolutely and uniformly convergent .
The expansion theorem for is then applied to the particular cases ( i ) , ( ii ) , and it is shown that in each case admits of an expansion of the form ( 4 ) .
As before , the number of terms of each type is , in general , infinite , and the convergence of the series of terms of either type is , under general conditions , absolutely and uniformly convergent .
The Expansion S6 .
Let be a symmetric function which is bounded and summable in the square .
The function will be said to be of positive type in the square if for each function , which is bounded and summable in the interval .
With this definition the expansion theorem for functions of positive type as given in 'Philosophical Transactions ' Series , vol. 209 , pp. 415-446 , may be generalised .
The following theorem will be of use hereafter:\mdash ; * Lalesco ( op .
cit. , p. 40 ) may be consulted .
is positive , but is not necessarily a singular value of .
in Terms of Biorthogonal Functions .
Let a of positive which is summable in the squar let be with respect to in interval for fixed [ Jalue of in the same interval .
, , . . .
, , . .
orthog )of for the corresponding to singular vatues , . .
, , . . .
the scrics , ( 5 ) of the squarc , and for its Further , if is , the is ?
in the square , is continuous the sqnarc .
The last part of this theorem is renlarkable from the point of view of the theory of functions of real variables .
It appears that , if is a symmetric bounded and mlnablo function of positive type such that ( i ) is continuous with respect to in , for any fixed value of in the interval , and ( ii ) is a continuuus ction o in , theu is a continuous function ( of two variables ) in the square S7 .
Let be a function ( not necessarily symInctl.ical ) in square , which is synlmetrisable on the left by .
It will be assumed that and are each bounded and sununable in the square , and that each continuous function of ( t)S in the interval for any fixed value of ( s)S in the interval .
It should observed that under the hypotheses stated , functions of the complete biorthogonal system ( 1 ) S2 are all continuous in .
The first step is to obtain all expansion theorem for .
For this we make use of the geueralised Schwarz inequality * Under the hypotheses stated , the functions contiuuous ; .
Hobsou , ' .
Lond. Math. Soc Series 2 , vol. 13 , p. 308 .
These are uot necessarily distinct ; cf. S2 .
Since establishing this theorem , I have discovered that it may be deduced from a theorem due to Hobson , ' Proc. Lond. Mnth .
Soc Series 2 , vol. 14 , pp. 24-25 .
The results stated above follow from the fact that the series , , is uniformly convergent with respect to for a fixed .
This being the case , I do not indicate my method of proof here .
It is probable that the reader will be able ) this proof after perusal of S8 .
S It may be advisable to point out that two statements are here implied\mdash ; in one the unbracketed letters are to be taken together , and in the other the bracketed letters are to be taken together .
Dr. J. Mercer .
Fumctions their where may be assumed to be any bounded function summable in The inequality may be written in the form ence it may be proved that the series , ( 6 ) is absolutely yent in the square a It can be proved that , the sum function of the series ( 6 ) , is bounded and summable in the fundamental square , and that it is continuous with respect to in the interval for any fixed value of in the interval : hencc has the same properties .
In virtue of the generalised Schwarz inequality , it will be seen that is of positive type .
Applying the theorem of S6 we find that , ( 7 ) where , , . .
are a complete orthogonal system of fundamental functions for corresponding to singular values , and the series on the right converges absolutely in the fundamental square .
Ib has now been shown that By application of Dini 's theorem*it is easy to establish that where is continuous in the two series on the of the equation just written converge uniformly , and hence thal , are both continuous functions in the fundamental square .
Since it will be sceu that for all values of , and hence that From this it is evident that , i.e. , each of the functions , , , , is orthogonal to on the left .
*Cf .
' Phil. Trans , vol. 209 , p. 440 .
Because , where is the resolvent , has no finite singularity when considered as a function of ( cf. Marty , 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 150 , pp. 1031-3 ) .
Expansion in Terms of Functions .
The theorem can now be stated :be a function which and summable in the let the be continuous )respect to the interval .
any jixed valne of in this interval .
Let be ) isable on the left by a frmction of positive type has the properties of , summabilit , , and continuity for .
, let , , bc a complete biortho.systc ?
of the .
, ( 8 ) the functions all the interval , and an orthogonal of functions for this ( ii ) ench fimction is orthogonal to on the ieft , ( iii ) th numbars positive arc defined by the uations amd ( iv ) umbers vare positive .
of the series on the right of ( 8 ) is in the square , and each has a has properties of boundedness , , an conpostulnted for the functions , .
Further , if a function of in the interval , each of the series on the right of ( 8 ) is uniformly convergent in The corresponding result when is completely risable on the right by will be obvious .
The expansion for is where the functions form an orthogonal system of funotions for the interval , and each function is to the right .
In passing it should be observed that for the function symmetrisable on the left we have and that there is a corresponding result for the case of a function symmetrisable on the right .
410 Dr. J. Mercer .
Symmetrisable Functions and their S8 .
From considerations of lucidity and brevity the theorems of the two preceding paragraphs have not been stated in a form which is sufficiently , eneral in certain applications .
Thus Hilbert has shown the function to be of interest , where is a discontinuous function defined by in certain sub-intervals of , and in the complementary intervals .
* To meet this and othel cases an easy generalisation may be made .
Let , be numbers which satis the inequalities , and let be denoted by respectively .
Let be a function which is bounded and summable in the square : let in the rectangle , where is deiined in the dosed rectangle ( i ) continuous with respect to in the closed interval for any fixed value of in the closed interval continuous with respect to in the closed interval for any fixed value of in the closed interval .
Let be a function of positiye type which has properties similar to those ostulated for , and let be symmetrisable on the left by .
It is easily proved that , in the open interval is equal to a function , which is continuous in the closed interval ; and similarly in regard to , .
Thus , corresponding to a rectangle , we have continuous functions , , , , : these functions will be said to be associated with the rectangle .
It will be found that ( 8 ) is valid under the conditions just stated provided that , when point is on the boundary of a rectangle such as is described above , each of the various functions occurring in the equations is understood to mean the corresponding function , etc. associated with any one rectangle to which may be regarded as belonging .
Thus the point may be regarded as belonging to four rectangles , and hence ( 8 ) is equivalent to ' for , 2 and , 2 .
It will be understood that two or more of the equations just written may be identical , owing to the fact that corresponding functions associataed with different have the same values for Each of the series 011 the right of ( 8 ) is absolutely convergent in the square Hilbert , op .
cit. , Chap. 16 , may be consulted .
Expansion in Terms of Functions .
, and , further , each is uniformly convergent in the square when is continuous in the interval for , N. S9 .
Let us now consider Hilbert 's function , where is bounded in and is continuous at all except a finite number of points of the interval , and is a function of positive type which has the properties specified in S7.* Since is symmetrisable on the left by , it follows from the theorem of S7 that Multiplying through by , it will be found that , ( 9 ) where and , of course , constitute an orthoonal system of functions for the interval , each member of which is to on the left .
If we now multiply through equation ( 9 ) by , and integrate between the limits and , we find whence it that for all values of and Thus can be expressed in form ( 9 ) , where ( i ) the constitute an system of ctions for ) , and ( ii ) each of the.vairs of functions , } , is orthogonal for the interval whatever be )of a Let it be assumed that has only one sign in the interval .S Since \amp ; it will be clear that cannot exist .
* The results obtained are valid when is subject to the wider conditions of S8 .
The singular are not subject to any iction as to sign:thel.e may be an infinite number of positive singular values and an infinite number of ative singular / values .
These are referred to as the orthogonal properties of the funetions , , in the next paragraph .
S may be zero at points in the interval .
in Terms of Biorthogonal Functions .
Again , let it be assumed that is definite .
It follows from the relation that and hence that cannot exist .
It is thus seen that when has only one sign in , or when is definite , .
( 10 ) It will be clear that the series on the right of ( 9 ) are each uniformly convergent in the fundamental square , when is continuous in the interval .
S10 .
Consider next the function where is a symmetric function ( not necessarily of positive type ) and is a symmetric function of positive type in the square .
It will be assumed that each of the functions is bounded and summable in the square , and that each is continuous with respect to in the interval for any fixed value of in the interval .
* Proceeding as in S9 , it will be found that , because is symmetrisable on the left by , we have the equation ( 9 ) , now , but the orthogonal properties of the fnnctions , , , are as before .
It can be shown that , if is of positive type , or if is definite , the expansion ( 10 ) is valid .
The concluding remark at the end of S9 applies to case also .
S 11 .
The results indicated in the last two paragraphs have important consequences in the theory of the linear integral equation .
For example , when is of either of the two kinds specified , its resolvent is given by In connection with , it should be observed that the resolvent is symmetrisable on the left by .
*Wider conditions , e.g. , on the lines of S8 , may be imposed .
Conditions the Boundary of Fluid in Turbulent Motion .
413 Again , the Fredbolm determinant is , and is consequently of class genre zero .
Lastly , it may be observed that The equation just written leads to interesting results , as to the relation between the singular values of and those of On the Conditions the of Fluid in Turbulent Motion .
By T. E. STANTON , F.R.S. , Miss DOROTHY MABSHALL , B.Sc. , and Mrs. C. N. BRYANT .
( Communicated from the National Physical Laboratory .
Received April 13 , 1920 .
) The experiments here described form part of a general research into the phenomena of skin friction of solid surfaces due to the flow over them of fluids whose motion , not in the immediate vicinity of the surface , is eddying or turbulent .
Considerable information has been obtained in recent years as to the magnitude of the frictional forces brought into existence in this condition of flow , and the manner of variation of these forces with the relative mean speed of surface and fluid , the roughness of the surface , and the physical characteristics of the fluid is fairly well known .
Practically nothing , however , is known about the mechanism by which the resistance to flow is transmitted to the bounding surfaces .
For speeds below the critical when the general motion of the fluid throughout is streamline in character , it is generally accepted that the layer of fluid in contact with the boundary is at rest lelative to it , as any slipping of finite amount would be detected in a variation from the Poiseuille law of the relationship between the diameter of a pipe and the time of efflux of a given volume of fluid .
At speeds above the critical , observations near the walls have shown that the mean velocity falls rapidly as the solid bounding surface is approached , and it has been suggested that at the walls there may exist a thin layer in VOL. XCVII.\mdash ; A. 2

