250 Major P. Cardew .
Instrument for Indicating [ June 21 , Fig. 14 .
The phenomena of a plain tube are shown when the disk is down , and when up the regular bright bauds are produced .
This experiment is very striking .
IV .
" On an Instrument for Indicating and Measuring Difference of Phase between E.M.F. and Current in any Alternating Current System .
" By Major P. Cardew , RE .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , P.E.S. Received June 21 , 1894 .
If the periodic time of an alternating E.M.F be T , and if , owing to the presence of capacity or self-induction , or both in the circuit , the current passes through the value 0 at times differing from the times of passage of the E.M.F. through the same value by t , the electrical power will be V X C X cos ( 2 7rt/ T ) , where V indicates the effective A'olts and C the effective curi'ent .
If a momentary contact be made at intervals exactly synchronising with the period of the alternating E.M.F. to complete the circuit of a suitable and suitably connected galvanometer , and if the time of 1894 ] and Measuring Difference of , occurrence of this contact can be adjusted to any instant of the period T , the instant of passage of the alternating E.M.F. or current through O from positive to negative , or vice versa , can be accurately determined .
The contact need not be absolutely momentary if the needle of the galvanometer have inertia sufficient , nor need it occur in each period , provided that the recurring period be an exact multiple of the alternating period .
On the principles enunciated above , the following simple appals has been devised for the exact measurement of the angle 2774/ T:\#151 ; A cylinder of boxwood or ebonite is caused to rotate synchronously with the alternating current generator , making one revolution to a complete period , either by direct connexion of its axle with that of the machine through suitable multiplying gear , in a manner similar to that used for the ordinary velocimeter , or by driving it by a synchronising motor .
In the surface of the cylinder is embedded one metal wire or strip parallel with the axle , and connected to the axle or to a contact ring .
Two insulated springs press against the surface of the cylinder ; one of these , called the Volt brush V , is attached to a dial face accurately marked with degrees , centred at the axis of revolution , and capable of rotation round this axis , and provided with clamping and slow motion screws ; the other brush , called the current brush C , is attached to an index moving over the face of the dial , and also provided with clamping and slow motion screws .
For very exact measurement the index may carry a vernier .
The brushes are so arranged that they make simultaneous contact with the wire on the cylinder when the index is exactly at the zero of the dial , and the cylinder is rotated .
This is tested by means of a battery and galvanometer , and the brushes are provided with suitable means of adjustment .
If the wire is of appreciable width , the adjustment of the brushes should be such as to give maximum deflection on the galvanometer .
The connexions are as follows :\#151 ; One terminal of the alternator is connected to the axle or contact ring of the cylinder by means of an ordinary rubbing contact ; Brush V is connected to a sensitive deadbeat galvanometer , which can be shunted at will , and coils of sufficient impedance to enable the shunted galvanometer to withstand the full E.M.F. , and to the other terminal of the alternator ; Brush C is connected through a resistance which can be cut out of circuit to a low resistance galvanometer , and thence to a point on the main connected with the axle of the cylinder at a short distance from this connexion , so that a short piece of main is a shunt to this galvanometer and contact .
252 Major Gardew and Major Bagnold .
On the [ June 2 if The modus operandi is first to adjust the dial and Brash V until Galvanometer Y remains at zero , then adjust the index and Brush C until Galvanometer C remains at zero .
The angle indicated is then .
exactly 2w\#163 ; /T , measuring the difference of phase between E.M.F. and current .
It will be seen that as this is a null method , the self-induction of the galvanometer circuits does not affect the results .
V. " On the difference of Potential that may be established at the Surface of the Ground immediately above and at various distances from a buried mass of Metal charge from a High Pressure Electric Light Supply .
" By Major Cardew , R.E. , and Major Bagnold , R.E. Communicated by Lord Kelvin , P.R.S. Received June 21 , 1894 .
On the 8th January , 1894 , an accident occurred at Bournemouth of an unusual nature .
An omnibus was in the act of drawing up in the roadway outside the Imperial Hotel , when the horses suddenly fell down , and one of them died in a few minutes .
All the men who assisted in extricating the horses felt tingling sensations in their limbs suggestive of electrical shock , and the connexion from the mains of the Bournemouth Electric Light Company to the hotel was known to pass underneath the spot at which the accident occurred .
This Company use the high pressure alternating system at 2,000 volts pressure , and in the case of this hotel the transformers were installed upon the premises .
On investigation , a defect in the insulation of one of the high pressure service lines was discovered , from which sparking had evidently taken place to the enclosing 1^-in .
wrought iron pipe .
This pipe was 32 ft. long , laid at a depth of about 18 in .
, and terminated at a brick junction box under the roadway , and a brick and cement area wall at the hotel .
The ends were thus fairly insulated , while the rest of the pipe was in contact with the earth .
The accident took place during the progress of a thaw , after a very severe frost .
Upon consideration of the case , Major Cardew reported to the Board of Trade that in his opinion the accident was caused by leakage from the short length of charged pipe , affecting the potential of the surface of the ground to such an extent that between the fore and hind feet of the horse a sufficient difference of potential was established to give rise to the current which proved fatal .
At the same time , as the fact of such a result following from a simple contact with ordinary road material was a new experience of

