Tar O O Agout Tolouse Garonnc O Sor Laudot Revel MD LIHN I Sor O Fresq= GF Sor Lampillon BOGF O Rietor CA Fresquel Lampi EE Bernasson Alzau Little Lers O Lers Agout D Lampillon E Alzau O Carcasson O Aude OOO O Trans. No. 56 .
THAV OO Lake OO Aude Agde ~ Liesse Cape ~ S. Louis OO Aude Scale of 4 .
Leagues , each of 4000 .
Toises or Fathomes Narbon W. Faithorne Sculp .
Numb. 56 PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
Februar .
17 .
1669/ 70 .
The Contents .
A Narrative of the Conjunction of the Ocean and the Mediterranean , by a Channel , in France , Some Considerations concerning the Scarborough-Spaw , together with a short Account of a Salt-Spring in Somersetshire ; and of a Medical Spring in Dorsetshire .
The Causes of Mineral Springs further inquired into ; and the strange and secret Changes of Liquors examined .
Instances , Hints , and Applications , relating to a main point solicited in the Preface to this 5th Year , concerning the Use , that may be made of Vaults , deep Wells , and Cold Conservatories .
A Narrative Of the Conjunction of the two Seas , the Ocean and the Mediterranean , by a Channel , cut out through Languedoc in France , by the Authority of the Most Christian King LOUIS XIV , and the Contrivance and Management of Monsicur Riquet : Englished by the Publisher out of the French , lately sent to the same from Patis , together with the printed Mapp of the said Channel , here contracted , and explained .
IT is not now , that the Conjunction or Communication of the Seas hath been thought possible .
It hath been always agreed upon , that it was so , and that many ways , even within the bounds of France , without any dependence on or participation with the neighbouring Countries thereof .
The thing hath a'so been often proposed under the Reigns of Henry IV .
and Louis XIII .
of most Glorious memo y. But whether it be , that it hath ever been Judged too difficult or too expence-full , or that those Great Pr nces were engaged in more urgent affairs , or that their Ministers would not apply themselves to it in good earnest ; so it is , that it hath been hitherto rejected , and as 'twere reserved for the Glory of our present Great Monarch LOUIS XIV .
Monsieur Riquet , who long since had considered the thing by himself , having opened it to the Lord Colbert , was happy enough to make him relish it , by showing him the Advantages , which then might accrue to the Kingdom by facilitating Commerce , and by declaring to him the Difficulties , to be grappled with in this work , together with the Means of surmounting the same .
This Great Minister , who incessantly watches for the Glory of the King , and the Interests of the State , and lets no occasions escape of procuring them , soon acquainted his Majesty therewith , who having a high concern for what may render his Kingdom happy and florishing , gladly hearkened to him , put the thing in deliberation , and having resolved for it , gave a General Commission to M. Riquet , esteen ed by his Majesty the most capable Person for executing such a design .
This difficulty being overcome , and M. Riquet having satisfied the Objections , made by several sorts of people against this Enterprise , it was necessary , before the actual undertaking of the Work , to resolve upon the Choice , that was to be made of the two Ways , by which the Channel was to be carried from the River Garrone to the Aude .
Some of the Interess 'd would have it carried all along to the Plains , reaching from Caercassone to Tholose .
Others would have it run into the river Fresqueil , from thence into the Plain of Revel , and thence into the river Agout , and so into the Garonne .
M. Riquet follow 'd neither of .
those two Ways , but formed thence a third which was ; To make use of what was best in these two Ways , by taking from the former , what it had of good convenient Country from the Point of Separation ( described below ) to Tholose ; and from the latter , what advantage the bed of Fresqueil would afford him ; yet so , that whereas some pretended to make this Channel of Communication munication pass into the very Channels of the little rivers Lers , Fresqueil , Aude ; Monsieur Riquet makes his Channel pass , as much as he can , in the adjacent Plains , leaving the ancient Channels of those Rivers to serve for receiving and carrying away the great and frequent inundations of waters , and thereby securing the new Channel from the danger of being inconvenienced by them .
The highest place of the whole Channel was well enough known , which was to be the Point , called the Point of Division or Separation .
Nature herself sufficiently pointed at it by the Spring of Grave , which partly runs towards the Ocean , and partly towards the Mediterranean : and it is near this place , where the great Bason is made to receive the waters , that are to run both sides of the Channel .
But this water being not near sufficient , it was necessary to find out others , that might be high enough to fall into the said Bason , and abounding enough ro keep it always full , and to furnish for the Sluces of those two parts of the great Channel .
It appeared also , that this plenty of waters could not be had but from the Black Mountain , distant enough from it ; but it did nor appear , how this could be effected .
In short , it is this wherein the greatest difficulty of the whole work did consist .
For we must know , that there are many Springs issuing from the higher part of that Mountain , and that among the rest there are Five great ones , which make as many small rivers , that are never dried up and run along the hillocks of this Mountain , and fall together into the river Fresqueil ; but so far above the said Point of Separation , that that remoteness would render them absolutely useless , it not being possible to make them re-mount .
Wherefore to make them serve for this purpose , it was necessary to interrupt their natural course from North to South , and to give them a contrary one , from East to West , by digging a Conduit for them cross the Mountain , through places , which are all steep rocks and horrid precipices .
There was then a necessity to make those five rivers run , the first into the second , and the second into the third , fourth and fifth , and to re-unite them all in the Deriving Channel , which at last carries them to the Point of Separation for the end above-mentioned .
As for the particulars of this great Work , the annexed Mapp will give farther information of them .
In it A. The Point of Separation , being beneath the Town of Mont-ferand , near the high way of Tholose , below the Stones of Naurouze .
It is so called , because that from this place the waters run naturally , on one side , to the Ocean , by the Garonne , and on the other , towards the Mediterranean , by the Aude .
In that place is to be a great Bason , Octogonal Oval-wise , 200 fathoms long , and 150 .
fath .
large ; which shall be surrounded with 72 .
houses to be raised on Arches : Over against which there shall be built a key for the convenience of those that shall dwel there , which is to be very spacious , and faced with hewen stone .
This great Bason shall receive all the waters , which the Deriving Channel is to conveigh thither from the Black Mountain , to be distributed by the Royal Channel to both Seas .
In the middle of this Bason shall be a Coloffe , representing the King standing in a Triumphant Charret , drawn by four Sea-horses , holding one foot upon a Globe , and a Trident in his hand , as marks of his greatness both by Sea and Land .
And then a stream of water , issuing as from a Source under the Charret , shall as 'twere be beaten back , and disgorge it self through the throat of Serpents toward the four parts of the World , represented by as many Rivers , which shall also pour out of their urns a prodigious quantity of water , to flew , that the Graces , which the Liberality of the King plentifully diffuses to all his people , do pass through the hands of the Lord Colbert .
B. The Stones of Naurouze , lying on the left hand of the high way of Tholose on the side of a little hillock .
C. The Fountain of Grave , whence the waters run partly to the Ocean , partly to the Mediterranean .
D. The Black Mountain , on which there is a great Forest , called Remonde , so pleasant in Summer , that the Counts of Tholose did heretofore pass there that whole season in the divertisement of Hunting .
It was from hence , that it was found possible to make this Channel , by the means of the Five Rivers and a great number of rivulets , issuing thence ; without the concourse whereof it had been impossible to undertake it and to render it navigable .
It is in this Mountain , a good way under the Mill of Calz , on the river Sor , where begins the Channel of Derivation , which hath its declivities through terrible precipices , where it receives the rivers Bernastone , Lampi , Rietor , Alzau , and Lampillon , , to conveigh them into the Magazine of St. Feriol , by the means of an other Conduit , when need shall be to sill it .
It would be troublesome to relate all the pains , which this Channel of Derivation , almost all cut through rocks , hath cost ; or the number of Dams , that were necessary to be made athwart many rivers , to divert their natural course ; or lastly the Mountains , that were to be levelled , having been counted afore inaccessible rocks , and affording now agreeable walks .
E. The Channel of Derivation , digged in the Black Mountain , and receiving a'l its rivers .
F. The F. The Place , whence the said Channel discharges itself into the river Sor G. Another Channel of Derivation , conveighing the water of the Black Mount into the Magazine above-mentioned .
H. The Magazine os the water of St. Feriol .
This work might be reckened among the Wonders of the World , both for the Contrivance of its admirable Structure , and for the prodigious quantity of Water , it is to contain .
For , it will be above twelf-hundred fathoms long , sixhundred large , and twenty two , deep ; and is to furnish every minute of an hour , for six moneths of the Year , more than eight Cubic feet of water .
This vast Store-house is between 2 .
Mountains , through the middle of which runs the small revolet Laudot .
It is true , Nature hath done something wonderful , in forming a disposition thereto ; but it is also certain , that Art hath much surpassed her , by the strong Banks or Dams , which are there raised to bear up against such a vast quantity of water ; as also by the admirable Aque-ducts , that are to have more than 80 .
fathoms in length , for giving the more liberty and facility to the waters to run out , when there shall be occasion ; and lastly , by the great Wall , which is 22 .
fathoms high , and 600 .
fathoms long : to say nothing os the incredible quantity of Earth , which 2000 .
Women daily carry to this wall , thereby to strengthen it on both sides .
I. The natural course of the river Audot , which by the means of a Channel conveighs the water of the said Magazine to the Cape of of Bon Amour , where it joins itself with those , that come from Revel to go to the river Sor , to pass together to the Point of Division .
L. The Cape of Bon Amour , so called by reason of the two Channels ; where the one , coming from Revel , brings the waters , which went to the Ocean , and the other , which comes from the Magazine , brings those of the Black Mountain , that passed towards the Mediterranean .
M. The Port Louis near Revel , newly built , faced with hewn stones of 20 .
fathom square ; where the Lord Bourlemont Arch-bishop of Tholose , and M. de Bezons , Intendant of Justice in Languedoc , accompanied with many of the Nobility , embarked in May 1668 .
to make an Experiment of this little Channel , and rowed on to the Stones of Naurouze , with that success , that M. Riquet , having found the advantages , which the neighbouring Towns and Villages might thence receive , besides that of carrying the waters to the Point of Separation , did so enlarge the same , that now it carries great Boats , though it be on the dectivity of an Hill : whith causes wonder in all those , that see it .
N. The Channel , that goes from Revel to the Point of Separation .
O. The Royal Channel , which goes from the Garonne into the Lake of Thau or Frontignan .
It is to be in its narrowest places 9 .
or 10 fathoms broad , and at least 9 .
foot deep , according to the places , where it must be more or less digged .
You may see in the annexed Mapp a great many rivulets , rivers , and Ponds , which it traverseth , and which in winter are as many torrents , that would cause very great inconveniences , if it were not for the care used to provent them .
The Boats that shall come from the Mediterranean , shall enter at the Port St. Louis , which is at the Cape of Cette ; and those that shall come from the Ocean , shall pass to Bourdeaux : they shall aseend by means of Sluces unto the Point of Division , and descend from thence after the like manner .
The number of the Sluces will be great , because of the great declivity , there is from the said Point towards both Seas .
In the Mapp are noted those only , that are made from Tholose unto the Point of Separation , whilst we are busy in marking also those on the other side with the same exactness .
7 .
The mark of the Sluces .

