2 .
" Description of the Hydrostatic Log. " By the Rev. E. L. Berthon , M.A. Communicated by Sir Francis Beaufort , F.R.S. &amp;c. , on the part of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty .
The object of this invention is to obtain a register of the speed of ships , by a column of mercury , in such a manner that the height of the column shall depend upon the velocity alone , and not be affected by any disturbing causes , such as alteration of draught of water , pitching and rolling , &amp;c. The principle embraces that of Pit6t 's tube , inasmuch as the force of the resistance due to the velocity is communicated through a small pipe projecting into the water below the bottom of the ship : this force , acting upwards , compresses a portion of enclosed air in a small cylinder , which air communicating by means of a little pipe with the bulb of a glass tube-bent like a common barometerraises the mercury in the tube , by depressing it in the bulb .
But as any single column of water and air thus acting upon the surface of the mercury in the bulb alone must depend not only upon the resistance due to the velocity , but also upon the distance of the cylinder from the water-line , which distance or height varies with every sea , and alters more permanently as the draught of water changes , a compensation was necessary ; and the inventor has found one , which he considers perfect for all these variations , by applying a second column of water and air to press upon the other surface of the mercury , viz. that in the glass tube .
This second column is precisely like the first as regards the pipe and cylinder , and communicates with the sea by an aperture or apertures , presented in such a direction that velocity does not produce any increase of pressure .
Thus the mercury in the indicator is placed between TWO columns of water and air , which are always equal to each other in length , and the mercury rises according to the difference between the pressures upon its two surfaces , the result of resistance or velocity alone .
The air-pipes may be conducted in any direction , and the indicator , which swings upon gimbals , may be placed in any part of the ship .
The two water-pipes are conducted into one tube in the bottom of the ship , divided into two separate chambers for the different forces .
In addition to the speed , the true course or leeway of the vessel is indicated upon a horizontal segment divided into degrees , over which a needle is moved by a rod connected with the above-mentioned double tube ; and the whole is kept continually in the true direction of the ship 's motion by a float or vane attached to the lower end of the tube in the water .

