116 Mr. E. S. Salmon .
Cultural Experiments with [ Dec. 2 is much increased .
On the other hand , if they are made to slope away from each other the glider becomes unstable .
9 .
Two square planes of equal size placed one behind the other at a small angle are less stable in the examples considered than a square equal in size to one of the two , but more stable than a single square whose side is equal to the total length of the glider formed by the pair .
19 .
A pair of unequal squares of which the smaller forms a rudder are more stable , in the examples considered , when gliding with the rudder behind than with the rudder in front .
11 .
In geneial , the stability is increased by making the moment of inertia as small as possible .
" Cultural Experiments with f Biologic Forms ' of the .
" By Ernest S. Salmon , E.L.S. Communicated by Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.RS .
Received December 2 , 1903 , ___________ Read February 4 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) In the introductory remarks the author points out that through specialisation of parasitism " biologic forms " have been evolved in the Erysiphacece which , both in their conidial ( asexual ) stage and ascigerous ( sexual ) stage , show specialised and restricted powers of infection .
The powers of infection , characteristic of each " biologic form , " are under normal conditions sharply defined and fixed , and hitherto the result of the experiments of numerous investigators\#151 ; both in regard to the present group of fungi and to the where the same specia isation ^ of parasitism occurs\#151 ; has been the accumulation of evidence tending to emphasise the immutability of " biologic forms .
" I he second part of the paper gives the result of cultural experiments with " biologic forms " of Erysiphe DC .
, carried out during the past summer in the Cambridge University Botanical xa , oratory .
It has been found that under certain methods of culture , m which the vitality of the host-leaf is interfered with , the restricted powers of infection , characteristic of " biologic forms , " break down .
In the first method of culture adopted , the leaf , which was either attac ec to a glowing plant , or removed and placed in a damp ci.tmier , was injured by the removal of a minute piece of leaf-tissue , in this operation the epidermal cells on one surface , and all or most of the mesophyll tissue , were removed at the cut place , but the epidermal cells on the other surface ( opposite the cut ) were left mini juiec .
Conidia wrere sown on the euticular surface of the uninjured epi\lt ; eimal cells over the cut .
In a few experiments the conidia were 1903 .
] " Biologic Forms " of the Erysiphacese .
117 sown on the internal tissues of the leaf exposed by the cut , and these crave the same results .
' Using this method of culture , over fifty successful experiments , of which details are given , were made .
In these the conidia of certain " biologic forms " were induced to infect " cut " leaves of host-species which are normally immune against their attacks .
The experiments proved that the range of infection of a " biologic form " becomes increased when the vitality of a leaf is affected by injury , and also that species of plants " immune " in nature can be artificially rendered susceptible .
Further experiments showed that the of the fungus produced on a " cut " leaf are able at once to infect fully uninjured leaves of the same host-species .
In other experiments , a method suggested by Professor H. Marshall Ward , with the object of avoiding lesion of the leaf , was adopted .
Leaves were injured by touching the upper epidermis for a few seconds with a red-hot knife , and conidia were sown on the injured place .
It was found that the cells immediately surrounding the place of injury were rendered susceptible to the attacks of a " biologic form which is unable to attack uninjured leaves of the plant in question .
In the third part of the paper , dealing with general considerations , the following hypothesis is advanced as to the actual manner in which the injury to a leaf causes it to become susceptible to a " biologic form " otherwise unable to infect it .
It is supposed that the leaf-cells of each species of host-plant contain a substance or substances possibly an enzyme\#151 ; peculiar to each species which , when the leaf is uninjured and the cells are vigorous , are able to prevent the successful attack of any mildew except the one " biologic form " which has become specialised to overcome the resistance .
When the vitality of the leaf , however , becomes affected by injury , this substance is destroyed , or becomes weakened , in the leaf-cells in the neighbourhood of the injury , so that the conidia of " biologic forms " are nbw able to infect them .
The author suggests that injuries to leaves , caused in nature by hail , storms of wind , attacks of animals , etc. , may produce the same effect as the artificial injuries described above in rendering the injured leaf susceptible to a fungus otherwise unable to infect it .
Conidia produced on these injured places would be able to infect uninjured leaves , and would spread indefinitely .
Such may be the explanation of a common phenomenon\#151 ; the sudden appearance of disease caused by parasitic fungi on plants hitherto immune .
A case is described which , it is believed , gives evidence that the injuries produced by Aphides caused leaves previously " immune " to become susceptible .
In the concluding remarks , reference is made to the antagonistic -1^ Mr. G. Massee .
[ Jan. 11 , !
forces concerned in the evolution of a " biologic form , " viz , , * " specialising factors " and " generalising factors .
" Attention is also drawn to the close parallel between ( 1 ) the behaviour of the fungus in the experiments in which the conidia were sown on the tissues of the leaf exposed by the cut ; and ( 2 ) the \#187 ; biological facts obtaining in the class of parasitic fungi known as 1 " wound parasites " ( Nedria , Peziza etc. ) , which are able to 1 infect their hosts only through a wound .
" On the Origin of Parasitism in Fungi .
" By George Massee , Principal Assistant , Herbarium , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Communicated by Sir William T. Thselton-Dyer , K.C.M.G. , C.LE .
, F.R.S. Received January 11\#151 ; Read February 4,1904 .
\#171 ; ( Abstract .
) Pp to the present no definite explanation has been offered as to why a given parasitic fungus is often only capable of infecting one particular species of plant .
This , however , is well known to be the case , for although the spores of fungus parasites germinate freely on the surface of any plant when moist , infection only takes place when the spores gei minate on the particular species of plant on which the fungus is known to be parasitic .
This apparently selective power on the part of the fungus I consider to be due to chemotaxis .
An extensive series of experiments were conducted with various species of fungi , including Saprophytes , facultative parasites , and obligate parasites , and the results are given in tabulated form in the full paper .
The ehemotactie properties of substances occurring normally in cell-sap were alone tested ; among such may be enumerated saccharose , glucose , asparagin , malic acid , oxalic acid , and pectase .
In those instances where the specific substance , or combination of substances , in the cell-sap assumed to be chemotactic could not be procured , the expressed juice of the plant was used .
These experiments proved that saprophytes and facultative parasites are positively chemotactic to saccharose , and this substance alone is sufficient in most instances to enable the germ-tubes of facultative parasites to penetrate the tissues of a plant , unless prevented by the presence of a more potent negatively chemotactic or repellent substance in the cell-sap .
As an illustration , Bofrytis cinema , which attacks a greater number of different plants than any other known parasite , cannot infect apples , although saccharose is present , on account of the presence of malic acid , which is negatively chemotactic to the germ-tubes of

