I. " Scientific Exploration of Central Australia .
" By Dr. G. NE-UMAYER .
ComnuiLinicated by the Presideut .
Received April 20 , 1868 .
If we look on a map of the Australian continent published ten years ago , we are struck by the immense expanse of land then unexplored ; we perceive at a glance that the south-eastern sea-board only of this great continient had them been examined with any degree of accuracy , and that very little was known to us respecting the character of its shores on the west and north-west .
In two quarters only had the zeal and daring of the explorer succeeded in forcing a path towards the cenitral portions of this vast territory , Sturt having penetrated as far as 240 Southl and l38 ?
East , and Gregory as far as 21 South and 1280 East .
The nature of the country traversed by these two eminent explorers was such as to countenance the supposition , that the interior of Australia was little better than one vast desert , offering almost insuirmountable obstacles to exploration .
The idea , originally advaniced by Oxley , that the greater part of the interior was occupied by vast inland lakes , was then abandoned ; and the theory just mentioned took its place .
In such a state of utter uncertaintv as to the niature of the interior of a vast continent , it is but natural that various theories should be started ; and no doubt they will , in the end , help to keep up the spirit for rigorous examination and exploration , vet care must be taken that they do not , by the unfavoourable niature of their suppositionls , tend(I to discourage enterprise .
From such a daniger we had a niarrow escape during the years following A. C. Gregory 's exploration of the interior , and his expedition in search of Dr. Leichhardt , as at that time it was generally believed that the arid plains and stony deserts met with in the east and south , and the sandy desert in the nlorth-west , were but the outskirts of a desert country unparalleled on our globe .
Fortunately , however , for the progress of civilization and geographical knowledge , this unfavourable opinion as to the nature of the interior was not universally entertained .
MIany men , well versed in terrestrial physics , especially with reference to the Australian continent , could not , from reasons based upon meteorological observationls made in the south-east , concur in the prevailing belief .
They urged the possibility of tracts of fine country interspersing the so-called desert , and the necessity , in any case , of clearing up the mystery still surrounding this important geographical question ; and in this view they were stronigly supported by the improbability ( generally speaking ) of the existence of a desert country of such enormous extent and such a description in any part of the earth 's surface .
It would be useless to enlter now upon the arguments for and against the various opinions set forth during that period of uncertainty , except that they might in some instances serve to put us on our guard againist advancing or accepting bold conjectureswhich may be put forward at any future time , and more particuIlarly in the special case we have to deal with in this paper .
Suffice it to say , that the spirit of enterprise and the desire of increasing our geographical knowledge triumphed at last .
The year 1860 gave a fresh impulse to Australian exploration , and will for ever be memorable as having inaugurated a new era in this respect .
In the end of that year and the beginning of 1861 , Burke and Wills crossed the continent with comparative ease .
It was now said by many of the adherents of the old desert doctrine , that Burke had merely hit upon a narrow strip of good country , which carried him across ; had he but deviated to the one side or the other of his path he must have failed in his attempt .
But when M'Dougal Stuart three ti-Mes crossed and recrossed the continent in other parts , and the last time from shore to shore-when M'Kinlay made his way from South Australia , by wav of the Gulf of Carpentaria , to the coast of Queenslanid , driving before him a flock of sheep-when Walker and Landsborough had accomplished their journeys through the imaginary desert countrythe old opinioni could no longer be maintained , and the desert theory fell utterly inito discredit , at least as far as the easternl part of the continent is concerned .
Since that time this once so much dreaded task has been several times successfully accomplished , so that we are now enabled to give a pretty accurate description of the features of the country forming the scene of these glorious achievements ; and as it will doubtless prove of material assistance to the complete understanding of the following exposition and plan , I may here be permnitted to give in a few words an outline of the main character of the grounid to the north of the parallel of latitude 260 , between the coast-ranges of Queensland and Stuart 's route through the centre , which emnbraces nearly the whole of the country discovered anci examined since 1860 .
From the records of the various explorers , it would appear that the line which divides the waters flowing to the coast , and those flowiig to the interior , runs from 19 ?
S. on Stuart 's track to 190 S. latitude on Lan'dsborough 's south-west expedition , in 1380 east longitude .
According to Ir .
M'Jntyre 's apparently reliable observations , this line would then pass through 22 ' S. in 141- ' E. , whilst JiVHKinlay places in the same locality the watershed between the Middleton and Mdller rivers , in a latituide but slightly differing from that just named ; and in Walker 's Diary we find it passing through 21- ' S. and 145 ' E. , where I find the highest elevation recorded by the latter explorer on his expedition in search of Burke and Wills .
Mr. A. C. Gregory 's exploration places the conitinuLation of this line of watershed through the north-west in 13 ?
S. and 1300 E. , whilst in the east it meets the main watershed between the Belyando and Thomson on the one side , and the Burdekin and Flinders on the other , in about 210 S. and 145- ?
E. ( See accompanying map .
) The sweep of this line leads across a sandstone tableland of considerable elevation-in parts even as hiigh , if we may rely on the data hitherto collected respecting it , as 1900 or 2000 feet .
On its coast side this tableland inlclines somewhat abruptly , whilst towards the interior it slopes more gently , thus affording a ready explanation of the marked difference existing between its river-systems , those flowing in the former direction passing through well-defieled valleys , while those in the latter direction run generally in shallow beds , and are consequently subject to excessive evaporation and inundation according to the season of the year .
The general incline of the country from longitude 1450 to Stuart 's track in about 1350 is towards south-west , unitil reaching near the latter its lowest point , as we feel justified in concluding from the great number of hot springs on the route Stuart pursued when crossing the continient .
This immense tract of land abourids in creeks and ill-defined water-courses .
In many cases the dividing or separating ridges of sanidstone are ( probably from the effects of floods and weather ) broken up , and cover the surface , which them presents a desert-like appearalce , only here and there covered with a scanty vegetation , coinsisting mostly of Spinifex ( Triodia irritan , s ) .
Very frequently , however , these ridges have succeeded in .
resisting the destroying effects , and we then meet with valleys of good soil , covered with fine grass and gum forest ; which state of things , happily for the future of the Australian continent , seems to predominate , as we learn from the reports of explorers who passed through fine country after having once entered the tropic .
These water-courses of the interior basin drain partly towards the Barcoo River ( Cooper 's Creek ) , partly towards the south , splitting up into innumerable little creeks and rills without any definite direction .
As an example of the latter kind may be mentioned the Burke Creek , which at times causes immense inundations in the tract of country ilear 25 ' S.and 140 ' E. , as we learn from the reports of Burke , Wills , H1owitt , M'Kiinlay , and Gregory .
To the south of this region the at one time so much dreaded " Stony Desert " seems to extend in the maanner indicated on our map ; and it certainly bears every appearance as if this region of sandstone was principally caused by the effects of the inundations and floods already referred to .
For whereas it is very easy to trace this peculiar phenomenon to the south , it is hardly possible to define it exactly towards the north , which fact accords well with the explanation of its true origin just suggested .
The careful researches of Mr. B. Ilassenstein* have tended to throw niew light upon this subject , and reduce the Stony Desert to its proper limits .
We know now that the arid plains described by some explorers , which others had found well grassed and covered with an evein luxuriant vegetation , are the receptacles of the waters flowing from the north , and form the boundary of the Stony Desert ; we know moreover that extensive tracts of fine country are interspersed with strips of " stony desert " of a very limited extent .
Such is the nature of the whole country , as far as we know it , from the meridiall of 1450 to Burke 's track .
Of the country between the latter 's course and that of Stuart very little is known ; but it is not unreasonable to suppose that it will prove to be mostly of the same description as that already well known to us , as it forms only the lower part of the interior basini above described , the very bottom of which we have been made tolerably well acquainted with by Stuart 's exploration , which bears out that supposition .
Furthier to the west , in the unknown coulntry between Stuart 's track and the west coast , the same sandstonie tableland probably rises again to the high ranoes which have been observed by the various explorers who have penetrated into the interior from the west , attaining in some parts any elevation of from three to four thousand feet above the ocealn .
Therefore it is not at all unlikely that we shall find in the western half of the central basin in the main the same state of things which we have foiund to exist in the east , with but suich slight modifications as may be determ-ined by the configurationi and lay of the country in connexion with , the prevailing system of winds and contingent mneteorological phenomena .
In order to complete the general descriptionl of this portioni of the Australian continent , we must call to mind the effect a tropical and subtropical sun must naturally exert upon a territory constituted as this inlterior tableland .
During the tinme the sunl is north of the equator , in the winter months of the southerii hemisphere , the prevailing winds are from southeast all over the northern continent , with little and only occasional rain ; but on the sun 's approach , during October and November , the monsooni shifts to north-west , and brings on the rainy season , gradually advancing from south to north in the middle of December and January .
At the end of this season , in February and March , and about the time precedinio the shifting back to south-east of the monsoon in April , the heavy fills of rain and the soaked state of the soil cause those imrieDnse floods which are Pottormanaiii , 1itth eilungonl , 1867 , p. 80 .
recorded in the Journals of the various explorers ; and it is during this period that in the territory south of the Burke Creek and north of the Stony Desert , as we have already explained , great ravages are caused by inundation .
Further to the south the meteorological phenomena of the northern portion of the continent pass gradually over to those prevailing in the south , namely that of two alternating currents of air , with winter rains and a short rainy seasoni in September and October .
Great as have been the recent achievements with regard to the geographical knowledge of the continent , comparatively little has been done by any one of the exploring expeditions towards the advancement of science .
Information calculated to throw light on the elevation of the interior or on its geological character flows very scanltily from the journals kept by the explorers ; and even the astronomical determinations of localities must , at least as far as longitude is concerned , be received with caution , as the means at their disposal , the comparatively small practice of most of the observers in determinations of this kind , and the very methods employed , would hardly admit of anything like a close approximation to the truth .
Indeed we may safely assert that it would have been scarcely compatible with the general pioneering object of parties in the field since 1860 to have devoted more attention to matters of science , strictly speaking , than was sufficient to carry them through the difficulties they had to encounter .
Perhaps it may not be considered out of place if I express here my deep regret , on this very grounid , for the untimely death of my young friend , W. J. Wills , the astronomer of Burke 's expedition ; for , had he but survived .
his first feat , there can be but little doubt that his zeal for the advancement of science , and the knowledge he h-iad obtained during , the time he was on tl.e staff of the Observatory over which I them presided , would have enabled him to take the first place as a scientific explorer , whereas we can now only admire him for his courageous and enterprising spirit as a pioneer .
This hope , however , is at an enid ; and up to the present time absolutely nlothling has been done towards the scientific examiniation of the vast interior of Australia-an examiniation of such immense importance for the advanicement of almost every branch of physical science , and for the development of the natural resources of this great country .
It is with regard to this matter that I venture to address this Society , with the view of soliciting , its important assistanice in starting any expedition , having for its object the e.ploring of the western half of Australia ; and the scientific survey of the route across the entire continent .
When the celebrated Australian explorer , Dr. Leichhardt , started on the expedition which was to be his last , he did so with the intentioni of crossing the continent from east to west , for the purpose of discovering the extenit of Sturt 's desert , and the character of the western and north-western coas and of observing the gradual chag , e in vegetable and animal life from onie side of the continent to the other@ " .
It is now exactly twenty years * I{istory of Discovery and EExploration of Australia , by thoe Rev. J. E. T. Woods , vol. ii p. 518 .
since this grand idea was conceived and attempted to be carried 6ut .
The last news of Dr. Leichhardt is dated April the 3rd , 1848 .
Subsequenit to this date nothing has been heard of him ; and deep mnystery still surIroullds his fate , notwithstanding the many efforts which have since been made ' originally to rescue the explorer and his party , and subsequiently , whe'n all hope of agaia seeing any of them alive was abandoned , to ascertaini the manner in which they perished , and the lecaluty where it occurred .
No doubt , to 'Many it may have appeared premature on the parit of Dr. Leichlhiardt to have entered upon such ain undertaking at a time when so little was known of ' the niature of the initerior aRs to make it utterly impossible to lay down a route across the continent on any oth1er ground than-i that of mere conjecture .
Circumstances , however , have since that time chaniged considerably ; at least one half of the continent has since been explored in such a way as to make us acquainted with the natulal resources an explorer may expect to meet with and turn to account , whilst even from the western coast numerous expeditions have tended to diminish the risk with which such any undertaking would be invested .
And in directing the attention of this Society to Dr. Leichhardt 's idea , with the view of seeing it carried out , I do so withi the conviction that now the proper time has arrived for taking in hand an enterprise of such importanice for the future of the Australian cololnies , and especially for the advancement of science , and thereby manifesting alike our appreciation of the various interests at stake , and of the noble mind who risked all he had in their furtherance .
In the execution of such a work , its scope may now be materially extended .
Instead of a rough survey on a single line from north-east to south-west , with an apparatus which allowed of but a limited attention beino paid to strictly scientific matters , it is niow proposed to form a base-line for the various branches of science through the interior of a vast continent .
That suchi a work can now no longer be regarded as impracticable or prenmature , and that its successful completion cannot be otherwise than replete with the greatest interest , I hope to be able to show in the course of this paper .
After these introductory remarks , I shall proceed to detail the plain which I propose to follow in carrying out the exploration of the western half of the continent , and the scientific survey of the line of route to be followed in traversing the interior from the east shores of Queensland to Western Australia .
It is proposed that the expedition be organized in Queensland , probably on the Burdekin , near Port Denison , in 200 south latituide .
Fromn a point in 260 South aild about 1480 East it will strike out for a point in 241-South on Stuart 's track .
So far the interior has to some extent been explored already , and it can be pricted with some degree of certainty , with what dlifficulties and with what facilities the expedition .
will probably meet* .
From this point , which I designate on the accompanying map by the letter B , the ori inal starting-point being A , to the south-western T f-ic greater part of the coutnctry bet-w'eeii th east coast and Burke 's frtic wlvill probably 1ha , ve been , taken up fo st squatteiug pulspe sea in a rely few years .
extremity of the continent , nothing is known ; and in choosing a practicable route , we must be guided entirely by surmises as to the natuire of the country , based upon the supposition that we shall most probably h-iave to deal with a state of things in the west very similar to that already known to exist in the east .
I shall , in the first place , however , lay down the eiitire course , and them enter upon my reasons for having done so .
Prom point BI propose keeping nearly on the same parallel as far as point C , in longitude 1253 ` East ; from thence proceeding on the same neridian to a point in 27 ' South , and thence to a point D in 11 East alnl 31k South .
Near the latter point , on our route to Pertb in WVestern Australia , we shall strike the SW%an River .
The entire distance on that route is about 2649 mniles , of which 1080 conmprise the distance from A to B , and the remainder that from B to C and D , an allowance of 20 per cent. being made for curvature , which percentage must always be understood when reference to distance occurs in the course of this paper .
As a close examination of the coautry traversed is the primary object of the expedition , it is proposed to accomplish it in thirteeni stages , so that fourteen separate depots will yave to be establisshed during its progress , each depot being intended to be retained only for such a the as will be requisite for the survey cand exploration of the surrounding country , and for the forrmationl and transport to the next .
Froiu A to B the numlber of depots will be six , so that the average distance between two consecutive depots will be 216 miles , while from B to C and C to D there will be eight depots , with an average distance of 200 miles .
On the map these depots are marked ; but it is evident that it is next to impossible to assign them their proper positions with any degree of accuracy , as these will depend so much upon circumstanices at present almost entirely unknlown to us .
It is only for the line froma A to B that we are enabled to fix with any certainty the positions of such depots , as we are already acquairnted with some localities the nature of which will probably recommend them for such a purpose .
Thus we should propose fixing depot No. 2 on the meridian of l450 and near Walker 's track , depot No. 3 on the Middleton River of M'Kinlay , depot No. 4 near the " fine open plains " of Burke and Wills , and depot No. 6 on Stuart 's track somewhere between the Fincke and Hugh rivers , in each of which cases the country is described as well grassed and provided with permanent water .
For depot No. 6 , and depots 7 to 12 , we have no data whereby to guide us , until we again approach the regionis already explored from the west .
As it is proposed from these various depots to strike out in different directions , they will have also to be selected with a view to enable these minor expeditions to yield the greatest possible amount of information with respect to the largest possible tracts of country .
With reference to the time required for accomplishing the whole expe-dition in a manner co-mi-nensurate with the scientific objects of the undertaking , it may be said , that it is proposed to devote three years and six months to it , of which fftees months are taken up by the exa iinationi of the country between A and B , and twenty-seven months for the exploration and scientific survey of that part of the route withini the entirely unknowni region between points B and D. Now let us examine what prospects of success this would allow for the performance of the task proposed .
The distance from the Burdekin to Stuart 's track may easily be travelled through , at the moderate rate of tenl miles a day , in 108 days , or three mnonths and a half , allowing , a time of stay in each of the several depots of nearly two months ( 1P9 ) .
Forth route through the westerni country , the time has been increased at a rate proportioniate to the increased risk incurred and the care to be bestowed upon the explorations within its regions .
The time requisite to travel over the line from B to D would be about five moniths and a half , which would allow of a period of stay in each of the depots of 2-4 months ; couinting , however , depot No. 6 twice , as it is proposed , for reasons presently to be explained , to prolong the stay at that point beyond the time generally allowed to the other depots .
From this exposition , it is evident that ample opportunities are offered for anl exact study of the ground travelled over with referenice to the various branches of science to be included in the scope of the entire work , This will become still more apparent on the further unfolding of the details of the organization of the expedition .
Dr. Leichbardt intended to t-ravel over nearly the same distance in about two years and a half , and that too without having also , as regards the eastern portioni of the Contineint , any information whiatever to guide him in his route ; and it was probably to some extenit owilig to the insufficiellcy of time allowed by him for the carrying through of such an extensive undertaking , and the consequent deficienlcy of provisions and outfit , that be failed in its accomplishmiient .
The extent , moreover , of the scientific labours proposed to be undertaken on this occasion is something widely different from what exploers twenty years ago could att-mpt , and is such as would of itself alone justify an increase of time by twelve months .
I shall now have to enuilmerate a few of the reasons promptingn me in proposing the route I have laid down in .
the preceding pages .
From what I have already said respecting , the character of the tropical and subtropical interior of Australia , it appears that the line of rouite from the Buidekin to the Fincke of Stuart passes , as far as known , through practicable coulitry , well watered and grassed , abounding in game of all kinds , and likewise well peopled with aboriginials .
M1Te are on this route likely to meet with the most practicable country in the interior we propose to explore and examine , and shall probably shun entirely the so-called desert countrv , subject to destructive inundations .
There is much likelihood that the unknown regions in the west bear in maniy respects a great lesemblance to the eastern half ; and I therefore feel inielinedl to believe that on the same parallel of latitude ( 230 S. ) we shall meet wi-ith no greater obstacles to progress than we are likely to eincounter in the east .
Tiie ex.plorations of 'Jr .
Gregory in the same latitude and in longitude 11 70 seem to corroborate this opinion , as the country appeared to him from that point towards the east to bear for many miles a promising appeararace .
Observations made in other parts of the north-west littorale of Australia confirmn this view , and some of the rivers have been supposed to take their origin in high granite and trap ralnges three hundred miles from the coast .
They would in this case be only four hundred miles from our point C , towards which the high western tableland , of which these raniges are probably the watershed , inielines until again reaching the lowest part near Stuart 's hot springs and the lake district forming the receptacle of the drainage fro-m the Barcoo River .
The course proposed passes very nearly through the centre of the unknown interior , and offers therefore , as an inspection of the map will shovw , anl opportunity for exploring these unklnowni regions , and most likely also for tracing the limits of Mr. Gregory 's sandy deserts in the north-west .
With reference to the south-west extremity , I accept for the greater part the suppositions thrown out by the Rev. J. E. T. Woods respecting its nature , first ably set forth in a letter addressed to the 'Melbourne Argus ' some years ago , and again repeated in his excellent work on Australiani explorationi ( vol. ii .
p. 511 ) , from which we quote the following passage .
Mr. Woods says , - " If the western end of the tableland be on an average two thousand feet high , there must be a drainage to the interior nearly equal to that which cauises so many rivers on the west coast .
The watershed has never yet been crossed from the west side ; but one cannot help remarking that wherever it has been crossed elsewhere good land has been found .
It is no evidence against the existence of a river that none are found on the south coast , especially in the Australian Bight , where it would be most likely to appear .
Many places in the interior have aln extenisive drainage , which never reaches the sea .
The Barcoo drains into Lake Eyre , which is the receptacle of maniy other streams .
A stream from the west coast might empty itself into Lake Gairdner* .
There must at any rate be some important drainage in connexion with that large sheet of water .
" It is scarcely needful to add anything to the reasons here set forth for the necessity of the existenice of a large drainage area in the south-western extremity of the continent ; but it may perhaps be not out of place to recall to mind here that the Barcoo River ( Cooper 's Creek ) drains a territory or niearly nine degrecs of longitude and seven degrees of latitude before emptying itself inito Lakes Eyre and Gregory , forming , after its bifurcation near the locality where the final scenes of the Burke and Wills tragedy were enacted , any immense river delta , far exceeding any of the well-known deltas in the worlcl .
If we now place a drainage system , in dimenlsions similar to that just spoken of , to the west of Lakes Eyre and Gairdner , it would in all probability be intersected by the course proposed through the western interior .
An expeditioni , after having , onice struck such a river-system , would of course have to follow up the discovery ; and would , in its further course tow &gt; vards south-west , have mainly to be It I rat'her feel inclined to believe that thoe receptacle spoken of is formecld by some lakes to the north of the Anstlalian Bight , yet undiscovered .
According to the recent exploratio-n of M\ajor Warburton .
guided by the watercourses , without however losing sight of its primary object .
It is not unlikely that , by the time the proposed expeditionl would reach the country north of the Australian Bight , expeditions from Western Australia , and even from the recently opened harbour on the south coast ( Eucla ) , will have thrown new light upon this subject , thereby considerably facilitating this portion of the unidertaking .
It has already been mentioned that at point B on Stuart 's track it is proposed to make a longer stay thaan in any of the other depots .
The principal reason for so doing is to afford the expedition at that stage an opportunity of comrmunicating with the settled portion of South Australia , previous to entering on the unlknowrn territory to the south-west .
A srmall party may be detached from the maiin body for the purpose of travelling to the nearest point of settlement , on which occasion collections and documents may be sent to Adelaide or Melbourne , as well as any iniformationi received which may be of imiportance for the progress of the expeditio , and chiefly such respecting the progress of exploratilon in Australia , havinn an imumediate bearing oln the problem at issuie .
Such an expedition -may also present an opportunity of exchanging or making , up our complereMent of men and horses , replenishing stores , &amp;c. Tlhat this does not present any serious difficulty in execution we know from Stuiart 's expeditions , who on an average travelled the distance from the Fiicke to Mount iMargaret * ( Ml'r .
Jarvis 's station ) in twentv-four days .
It is therefore fair to suppose that within ten weeks this party could proceed to the first settlements and return , after having accomplislhed its objects .
In the preceding part of this paper I have laid down .
the track I propose following , and have , I believe , succeeded in explaining the reasons which guiided me in doing so .
I have avoided , however , alt matters of detail as to the branch expeditions , which are intended to be undertaken .
on both sides of the main route , as such expeditions must to a great extent depend on the nature of the country to be explored , on which poirnt our knowledge is still very scanty .
I shall now in a few words give an outlinle of the scientific objects of the expedition , and then proceed with some details respecting its organization and probable expense .
An expedition passing through the centre of such a vast continent , tra-velling through 32 degrees of longitude and 12 degrees of latitude , cannot be otherwise considered than as productive of the most material advantages to the cause of science generally , provided the plan of its working , be such as accords with the present state of scientific inquiry , and the conduct of the whole be entrusted to competent halnds .
It is frequently supposed that , in expeditions of this nature , it is expedient to confine the scientific researches and observations within the narrowest limits .
Indeed , a rigorous scientific inquiry is frequ ently thought inicompatible with geographical discovery .
This is a grievous mistake , and has invariably proved to be such whenever an expedition has takeni the field , in the organization of which Probably the stations are niow still further advanced towards the north. .
proper attention hbacl been paid to the objects it had to serve .
There is no doubt that the many unemuployed hours , even of those of the party generally and more exclusively engaged upon explorationl matters , :may , for the benefit of the well-being of the whole expedition , well be turned to account in assisting scientific inqluiry .
On such principles the scientific plan of operations of thie proposed expedition , as detailed hereafter , ias been framed .
It ineluLdes the following brainches 1 .
Astronomical Science and Surveyinzg .
In addlition to such operations as are absolutely liecessary foi the mapping of the country , it is proposed to organize a system of observations of the mooni , with a view to assist lonigitudinal determiniation .
Such more accurate d.et-ermniiations of the geographical position may be carried out at the varlious depots above spoken of .
2 .
Terrestrial Physics and AEeteorology.-Systematic registration of meteorological phenomena and terrestrial magnetisiu is likewise to be carried out at the depots , particularly with a view to assist barometrical measuremiients of elevations and magnetic observations in the field .
If it should prove at all practicable , it would likewise be advisable to include in the general plan of working observations on the length of the pendulumn vibrating seconds .
3 .
Geology , Paltontology , aznd lineralogy.-A geological sketch-map of the whole route across the conitinent is to be made , and palaeonitological specimens are to be collected .
Special attention has to be paid to the mineral resources of the country travelled over .
4 .
Botany.-Observations on the physiology and geographical distributioni of plants are to be included , and collections made .
5 .
Zoology and Conmparative Anatomy , including Ethnology.-This branch is likewise to be attended to with a view to assist physiological studies , and to examine into the applicability of Darwin 's Theory on the Fauna of Auistralia , ancient and modern .
Collections are to be made .
Character and language of the aboriginals in the various parts of the continent are to be studied .
6 .
Sketching and Photography.-These arts will be employed muore particularly for the purpose of representing the character of the various tracts of country passed through- , but will have likewise to assist the various branches , of science in the complete execution of their parts .
I refrain from eintering into particulars respectiuig the general scheme of scientific work to be adhered to in the course of the expedition ; the more so as it is iintenlded that the authorities in the various scientific branches , both in England and(l in the colonies of Australia , slhould be consulted on this matter , and their cooperation and advice solicited .
It is especially by the aicl of the scientific mien and institution , s in Auistralia , and their extenisive labours in the various branches of science , that I am led to hope for a great success in the seientific part of the work of the expeditioni , as these labours form an excellent base whereon to build and start from .
Thus much , however , I may state , that it is to be made a rule that nothing be included in the plan of immediate investigation while in the field which may well be deferred withotut prejudicing the general objects of the expedition .
This rule is to hold good for all scientific branches , and will also be made a guiding principle with referenice to the reduction and discussion of observations , the examining , of natural-history objects , and the collecting of specimens .
At the present time , when mystery still surrouunds the fate of Dr. Leichibardt , I should consider myself open to just reproach were I to lay out the plan aid scope of an expedition through the interior of Australia without calling attention to this subject , and including , it among the duties of such any expedition to aid in clearing up that mystery .
As remarked at the outset of this paper , twenty years have now elapsed since the utter disappearance of that great explorer , and there is now indeed scarcely any likelihood of rescuing any of his party alive .
But the hope of even ascertaining the fate of that brave body of men should never be abandoned until the object be attained , though there can be no doubt that the chances of our doing so grow smaller from year to year , every fresh inuindation or coniflagration of large tracts of forest diminishing them considerably .
The scientific survey entailed upon such an expedition as that proposed offers great facilities also for the promotion of a search after tr-aces of the missing explorers .
In addition to which I consider it of extreme importance for such a purpose that the search should be instituted in the direction in .
which the missing expedition intended to move , the more so as all efforts to cut Leichhardt 's probable route at right angles have hitherto provedl ineffectual .
When we consider that the eastern portion of the Australian continent has been so frequently crossed and recrossed during the last six years without any imaterial informationi having been gained as to Leichhardt 's fate , we feel almost disposed to believe that he shaped his course from Upper Victoria and the Alice River , in a direction somewhat similar to that taken by r. Gregory on his expedition in , search of him , particularly as such an opinion is supported by such an authority on Australianl exploration as Mr. J. E. T. Woods in his recent work .
According to his opinioni the explorer was compelled to follow the Barcoo , and may have perished in the country to the west of Lake Eyre and Stuart 's track .
But we must not forget that such a course to the south-west would , with this indefatigable explorer , have been equiivalent to giving up his original plans respecting , the exploration-plans which , as far as we are acquainted with them through the Rev. Mr. Clarke of Sydney , and others intimately coinnected with him , would have carried hinl to the west , and even to the north of west .
This opinion was also entertained by Mr. A. Gregory , who thought " that Leichhardt had left the Barcoo at its junctionl with the Alice , and , favoured by thunderstorms , penetrated the level desert country to the north-west , where , being unable to returni , they may have perished for want of water .
" ( Expedition in Search of Dr. Leichhardt , ]8257-58 , page S. ) Such may be the case , but it may also be that they succeeded in forcing their way tbrough the counitry referred to by Gregory , and therefore the country between Stuart 's and Burke 's tr ack must be well examined withi a view to find traces of the party .
Although it may at first sight appear difficult to conceive that Stuart could hay , e passed six times through the country which Leichhardt most probably crossed on his way to the west without observing any trail or mark of the latter 's course , nevertheless there is no improbability in such being the case ; and unremitting zeal should be displayed throughout the whole expeditionin endeavouring to lift the veil from off this sad tragedy .
Should the expedition fail in finding the remains of the party in the east , they will have to search for them in the west and south-west extremity of the continent .
Any expedition through the vast interior of Australia , with such an extended scheme of operations and so many important matters to attend to , should be organized on such a base as to give fuill guarantees for being able to accomplish its main objects , as well as to protect itself against attacks of the aboriginals and the destructive effects of unforeseen misfortunes .
It is therefore proposed that the expedition shoiuld numlber twenty-five men .
The following is the plan showing how the exploring , expedition proper is to be composed : Leader , assistatnt leader , storekeeper and overseer , saddler and tentmaker , blacksnmith and wheelwriight , twelve stockmen , and three aboriginfals .
To these are to be added the following ' scientific men of the party:-l .
Geologist and mineralogist ; 2 .
Botanist and chief medical officer ; 3 .
Zoologist , palmeontologist , and mnedical assistant ; 4 .
Artist , photographer , and custos of collect , ions ; ,5 .
Assistant for plh ; ysical science and observer .
With reference to the organization of the party , so as to enisure a satisfactory cooperation of all concerned , it is proposed to adhere to the following principles : 1 .
The scientific members of the expedition , with the exception of the leader and the assistant leader , do not form part of the exploring party proper , but are unader the leader 's supervision , and may be employed as may appear to him desirable for the advancement of the objects of the expedition .
2 .
The exploring party proper consists of the leader as first officer , the assistanlt leader second officer , and the overseer third officer , two artisars , twelve stockmen , and three aboriginals .
3 .
The exploring partv proper is to be dividedl into three bodies of men a. Depot _party.-Storekeeper and overseer , saddler and tenit-maker , three Men , and an aboriginal .
To this party the assistant observer is to be attached .
6 .
Field Party I.-Leader , blacksmith , four men , and an aboriginal .
To this party any of the scientific m-en may be attached as best answering the purpose , care being , however , taken that one of the medical meni be included among them .
c. Field Party II.-Assistant leader , five men , and an aboriginial .
To this party &amp;c. as above .
4 .
The depot party remains in the depots which will successively be formed in the course of the expedition .
It will chiefly be employed ill.keeping everything in repair and good order , in preparing , provisions , and propagating useful plants , The sick and conivalescent are likewise to be received inito it .
Systematic registration of meteorological and magnetical phenomella is to be car'ried on by it under the imnmediate superintendence of the assistant observer .
5 .
The field parties will be employed in such a manner that one will be examining the neighbourhood of the depot , say thirty miles round , while the other will undertake the larger excursions on both sides of the main route .
In case of a removal of the depot in the direction of the main route , all parties will have to cooperate .
It is proposed , moreover , to employ the field telegraph , as well for the promotion of the scientific objects as for the more satisfactory cooperation of the whole party engaged .
The perfectioni to which ballooning has been brought by the zeal and energy of Mr. Glaisher makes it not unlikely that it may be employed with advantage in this expedition for the facilitation of the exploring and mapping of tracts of country otherwise barely accessible .
For means of transport it is l)roposed to employ fifty horses and eight or ten camels , which latter animals have now been acclimatized in the colonies , and show a special fitness and adaptation for Australian exploring work .
We may niow add a few words as to the probable amnount of expenditnre an expedition of this kind would involve , referring , however , for particulars to the appendix .
The following is an abstract of the probable expense -1 .
Expenses previous to the organization of the expedition X ?
880 00 2 .
Ouitfit of the expeditionl , exclusive of provisions ... ... 2,980 00 3 .
Salaries , wages , and contingencies for three years and six month .
17,675 00 Total expenditure .
X ?
21,535 00 This estimate has bee i framed without regard to any expenses in connexioni with the publication of the results of the expedition .
The sum may , at first sight , appear somewhat large ; but when we come to take into considerationi the objects which the expedition professes to advance-when we renember that , for the first time in the history of Australian exploration , the various governm-ieiits are to uniite in support of a uniform and wellplanned scllemne of exploration--when we consider that this sum is to be distributed over a period of three years and a half we caninot fail to perceive the moderate amotunt of the sum proposed to be expended .
It is proposed that the expenditure for this great schenie of exploration of the vast interior of Australia , and the scientific researches contingent upon it , shall be borne by the mnother couatry in conjunction with the various Australian colonies .
So sooni , therefore , as an arrangement to that effect may have beeni arrived at , trustees should be appointed , residing , in the colonies , who would act as a Committee of administration , such Committee to consist of not more than five mnembers .
All funids would be placed at their disposal , and all money transactions in connexion with the expedition would be made under their supervision and subject to their approval .
The objects of the expeditioni having been attained , and the time arrived when the same is to be broken up , the residue of the stock and storeshorses , camels , equipment , instruinents , provisions , &amp;c. -would be handed over to the Committee of Trustees , to be disposed of as they might thinlk fit .
All observations , journals , maps , natural-history collections , drawings , and photographs , without exception , would likewise be handed over to the Committee of Trustees on the completion of the expedition , in order that the same may be turned to account in furtherance of the interests of science , and of the various countries that have taken a part in this great undertaking .
Members of the expedition would not be permitted to make private collections , and nonie of the results would be made public , unless by special authority of the Committee of Trustees .
Such are the objects and leading principles of an expedition which I hope to be able in person to carry out ; and I trust it will not be deemed presumnptuous on my part if I add a few words in support of my clairns to be entrusted with the conduct of so noble an enterprise .
I have been connected with Australia , with brief interruptions , ever since the year 1852 , and the greater part of that long interval of time has been employed by me in studying the physical character of that great continent .
In 1858 I succeeded in establishing an Observatory at Melbournie for the advancement of our knowledge of terrestrial physics , and my labours and publications on the observations made up to the time of my resignation and retirement from that institution in 1863 , will in a very short time come to a conclusion .
The magnetical and other observations collected during my travels through Victoria , part of New South Wales , and of South Australia , comprising an area of nine degrees of lonigitude and six deg.ees of latitude , are now in course of publicationi on belhalf of the colony of Victoria .
As soon as this is 'acco mplished , I purpose again to devote my energies to further inquiries respecting the physical geography of Australia , but on this occasion likewise as any explorer .
In this determination I am prompted by no other motives than the advailcenient of science , and any attachment towards a rising counitry-an attachment not uninatural , after a connexion extendding over a period of so many years .
It is on these grounds that I solicit the powerful support of this Society in this great national undertakinc , , which , I am persuaded , will , if successfully carried out , conduce equally to the advancemenit of the interests of scienice and to the material welfare of Australia .
MeIen nay differ as to the mode of proceeding in its execution ; but none , I presume , will venture to deny its importance , especi-ally with regard to the development of the natural resources of that immense area , in the interests of civilizationnone , I feel sure , will oppose it as being premature or inopportune .
It would be presumptuous on my part were I to urge the importance of the opening up of the western interior for the successful settlement of Western and North-Western Australia , which at some fiuture time , and under certain contingenicies that might arise , would have a most important bearing on the security of the British possessions in India , For I am well aware that men , regarded as authorities in colonial policy , have long ago brought this subject under the consideration of the Governlment .
Nor need I speak of the enilightenied spilit in which the various Governiments in Australia have ever shown themselves ready to assist the cause of exploration and scientific research .
The imany and valuable contributions that science , in niearly every one of its branehes , has received from the colonies cannot fail to assure us of their assistance and cooperation in a systematic and scientific exploration of the unknown initerior rounLd which they are clustered .
I feel confident there needs but an impulse from England , and the sanction of its highest scientific authorities , to secure for the undertaking a ready assent and streniuous support on the part of the people and the Govelrnments of Australia .
APPEN DIX .
A.--Annual lxjqenditiere of the Expedition .
a. Salaries and wages for the maembers of the expedition proper .
1 .
Leader , ananually ... ?
450 ttlO 00 Assistant leader , annually. .
350 00 Storekeeper and overseer , aiiniially 200 00 Saddler , tent-maker , &amp;c. , monthly ?
12 144 00 Blacksmith , wheelwright .
, m oltilvt 144 00 V288 00 2 .
rTlwelve stockmenat ?
8 a month .
` ... ... 1 152 00 Tlhree aboriginals a-t 04-I a month 144 0 0 ?
1296 00 6 .
Salaries for the scientific nen .
Geologist , mineralogist !
, annually.300 00 Botanist and medical officer 300 00 Zoologist , palveontologist , mnedical cassistant 300 00 Artist and photograper .
300 00 ASsistant observer for physical scienice .
2 .
200 0 0 ?
1400 0 0 TOTAL SALARIES AND WAGES..1. . ?
1288 00 C. 2 1296 0 0 ... ... ... ... ... . .
1400 0 0 ?
3984 00 c. Expenditure for provisions , tobacco , &amp;c. ?
866 00 And for wear and tear and repairs .
200 0 0 ?
1066 00 Total of the annual expenditure..1 03984 0 ?
5050 00 Total for three years and a half.17675 00 B.-Expenditure of the Expeditionfor Instrunments , Outft , exclutcsive of Provisions .
1 .
Instruments-Astronomical t200 00 Physical and meteorological..250 00 Physiological and botanical..80 00 Surgical medicine-chest. .
60 00 Geological..40 00 Photographical ... 50 00 Packing and transport to Australia 60 0 0 ?
740 00 2 .
Tools and implements , including rifles , revolvers , ammunition , rockets , blue lighits , horseshoes , &amp;c. ?
400 00 3 .
Tents , a boat , and a small iron vehicle..300 00 4 .
Sad dlery , including thirty riding saddles and pack saddles , water bags , &amp; c , ... . ?
440 00 5 .
Live stock ; fifty horses at ?
20 each . ?
100O 00 Some sheep. .
p. .
100 0 0 ?
1100 0 0 TOTAL OUJTFIT .
1 ?
740 00 2 ... ... .
400 ) 0O 3 .
300 00 4 ... ... ... 0 440 00 5 ... ... 1100 0 0 . ?
2980 00 C.-Eependittere duriny ann pvior to [ le Oryan zation of 1he Expedition .
Expenses in Europe ... ?
100 00 Passage money for the officers to Australia ... 380 00 Probable expenditure prior to the organization .
400 00 Total .
S80 00 GRAND TOTAL EXPENDITURE .
A ... ?
17,675 00 B ... .2,980 00 C : e ee e. e* o* e* .
880 0 0 ?
21 535 0 0

