]\gt ; the enumeration , and it has been a principal object to obtain condensed or reduced generating functions .
It was not difficult to coniecture that if the graphs have not more than two layers of nodes ( i.e. , not more than two nodes along the axis of , taken to be perpendicular to bhe plane of the paper ) , but be otherwise icted , the reduced ating function is\mdash ; inf .
to establish this happily led me to send the corresponding olude generating function to Professor Forsyth .
He furnished am ingenious soIution , which is on the point of appearing in the ' Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society .
' Subsequent to this I obtained a proof , of quite a different character and without reference to the crude form , of the same theorem which will be found in this section .
Conjecturally , the G.F. , when the ; are restricted in number to 3 , 4 , \amp ; c. , are\mdash ; inf .
} inf \amp ; c. , and when the graphs are quite unrestricted\mdash ; .
ad inf .
Finally , a conjecture is made as to the form when the graphs are restrioted in all these dimensions .
These conjectures are slowly being transformed into truths , and I trust to present them as such to the Royal Society as Part 2 of this memoir .
IV .
' On some Physical Properties of Argon and Helium By LORD RAYLEIGH , Sec. R.S. Received January 16 , 1896 .
Density of Argon .
In our original paper* are described determinations by Prof. Ramsay , of the density of argon prepared with the aid of nesium .
The volume actually weighed was 163 , and the adopted mean result was , referred to .
At that time a satisfactory conclusion as to the density of argon prepared by the oxygen * Rayleigh and Ramsay , ' Phil. Trans vol. 186 , , pp. 221 , 238 , 1895 .
1896 .
] On some Physical Properties of Argon and Helium .
] method of Cavendish had not been reached , although a preliminary resuIt 19.7 ) obtained from a mixture of argon and oxygen*went far to show that the densities of the gases prepared by the two methods were the same .
In order further to test the idcntity of the gases , it was thought desirable pursue the question of density ; and I determined , as the event proved , somewhat rashly , to attempt large scale weighings of pure argon with the globe of 1800 .
capacity oyed in former weighings which could be obtained in quantity .
The accumulation of the 3 litres of argon , required for convenient working , involved the absorption of some 300 litres of nitrogen , or about 800litres of the mixture with oxygen .
This was eifected at the Royal Institution with the apparatus already ribed , and which capable of absorbing ths mixture at the rate of about 7litres per hour .
The operations extended themselves over nearl three weeks , after which the residual gases amounting to about litres , still containing oxygen with a considerable quantity of nitrogen , were removed t , o the country and transferred to a special apparatus where it could bc prepared for weighing .
For this pnrposc the purifying vessel had to be arranged somewhat differently from that employed iu the preliminary absorption of nitrogen .
When the gas is withdrawn for , the space left allt must be filled up with liquid , and afterwards when the gas is back for tion , the liquid must be removed .
order to this , the working vessel ( Fig. 7)S communicates by means of siphon with a 10-litre " " aspirating bottle the ends of the siphon being situated in both cases uear the bottom of the liquid .
this way the alkaline solulion may be made to pass backwarils and , in correspondence with the desired displacements of gas .
is , however , one objection to this arrangement which requires to be met .
If the reserve alkali the aspirating bobtle were allowed to come into contact with air , it would inevitably dissolve nitrogen , and this nitrogen would be partially liberated again in the working vessel , and so render impossible a complete elimination of that gas the mixture of argon and oxygen .
By means of two more bottles an atmosphere of was maintained in the bottle , and the outel.most bottle , connected with the second by ubber hose , gave the necessary control over the pressure .
Five labS tubes in all were carried th.ough the rubber cork by which the neck of the working vessel was closed .
of these .
cif .
, p. 221 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc February , 1888 ; Febl.ual'y , 1892 ; March , 1893 . .
Trans loc. , p. 219 .
S ' .
Trans , p. 218 .
was frequently taken of the fact that oxygen could always be added irnpunity , its presence in the working vessel being a necessity in any case .
When the nitrogen had been so far removed that it was thought able to execute a weighiug , the gas on its way to the globe had to be freed oxygen and moisture .
purifying tubes contained copper and copper oxide maintained at a red heat , caustic soda , and pbosphoric anhydride .
In all other respects the arrangements were as described in the memoir on the densities of the principal gases , * weighing globe being filled at , and at the pressure of tlJe manometer gauge .
The process of pnrification with the means at my oommand proved be extremely slow .
The gas contained more nitrogen than had been expected , and the contraction went on from day to day until I almost despaired of reaching a conclusion .
But at last the visible contraction ceased , and soon afterwards the line of nitrogen disappeared from the spectrum of the jar discharge .
After a little more sparking , a satisfactory weighing was obtained on May 1895 ; but , in attempting to repeat , a breakage occnrred , by which a litre of air entered , and the whole process of purification had to be -commenced .
The object in view was to effect , if possible , a series of weighings with intermediate sparkings , so as to obtain evidence that the purification had really reached a limit .
Ths second empt was scarcely more successful , another accident occurring when two weighings only had been completed .
Ultimately a series of four weighings were successfully executed , from which a satisfactory conclusion can be arrived at . .
Soc. Proc vol. 53 , p. 134 , 1893 .
\mdash ; When the argon is nearly pure , the arc discharge ( no jar connected ) a.ssumes a peculiar purplish , quite distinct from the greenish hue apparent while the oxidation of nitrogen is in progress and from the sky blue when the residue consists of oxygen .
1896 .
] On .
201 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jnnc .
July 2 . .
the ( of the " " " " wit !
] ) of " " \ldquo ; they nre ) of the nd of the .
In the , the be for ) hours more .
} the .
of 8mnd June nd of and ) ) ' it with ) , ti .
of If we take wo cnlent ni 's result .
'ce that llxe by by oxj the is thus collfirmed .
The of Argon of , in the ir some t'nc is .
It Iicell to in of air and ) , in oldcr to tions u in them .
{ modificntion of one inves \fnof ; g } by ndincr t of nitted of it .
If be it poinb or a lino of ] , bc in focnh , tbo widlh , duc to as tho width of ] .
If be slifs is a multiplc of ) 1dth of .
Soc. , p. 144 , 1893 .
V0L .
1 ' Lord Rayleigh .
[ Jan. 16 , field is traversed by bands of width inversely as the distance between slits .
If canse one of the portions of light be retarded relatively to other , the hands are displaced in the usual manner , and can be brought back to the position only by abolishing the relative retardation .
When the object is merely to see the interferenc , e bands in full perfection , the nse of a telescope is not required .
The function of the scope is really magnify the slit system , this is necessary hell , as here , it is desired to opel ate separately upon the two portions of light .
The apparatus is , however , extremely simple , the objection to it being the magnifying power required , leading under ordinary arraugements to a great attenuation of light .
I have found that this objection may be almost entirely come by the substitntion of lenses , magllifying in the borizont , al ection only , for the spherical Ienf ; es of ordinary eye-pieces .
For mally purposes a single lens suffices , but it ) of high powe]. .
In the measuraments about to be ibed most of the magnifying done by a of home .
It consisted simpIy of a To rod , about in .
( 4 mm. ) in diameter , cut Mr. Gordon from a piece of plate glass This could be used alone ; but as at first llonght 1 to have a web , serving as a fixed mark to which the bands could be referred , rod was treated as the objectglass of a } ) ouod cylindrical microscope , the eye-piece being a ommercial c lens of in .
( 31 mm. ) focus .
Both lenses were mounted on adjustable stands , so that the cylindrical axes could he made ately vertical , or , there , accurate ] parallel to the of the original slit .
The light from an Jaraffin lamp now sufficed , although the agnification was such as to allow the of setting to be less of a band .
It is to be nbered that this arra1Jgement the various parts of the of a band pond , not to the various parts of the Ol.iginal slit , but ratber to the various parts of the object-glass .
This departure from the ation of a spherical eye-piece is an ntlch as uptical defects show themselves by deformation of instead of by a more injurious encroacbment upon the disbinctiou between the parts .
The Iens ( fig. 1 ) is situated 23 ft. from the source of light .
are the { ubes , one containing dry air , the other the gas to be tcd upon .
They are 1 long , and of cm .
bore , and they are closed at the ends with plates of parallel glass cut from the same strip .
is the ctglass of the telescope , about 3 in .
cm .
in diameter .
It is fitted * ' Brit. Assoc. Report , ' 1893 , p. Prcliminarv ) iments had been made lvith ordin ary glass cane and with charged 1896 .
] On Properties of and Helium .
FIG. 1 .
with a cap , by two parallel ] .
] slit is in .
wide , and the distance between the middlc liues ot the slits is in .
mm The nents for the tubes and Vfll'ying the pressures of gases sketched in .
A gas pipelte , Dl commllnicates lvith the tube , so that by motion of the reservoir and flow of the bose , of the be by a , containing merc .
This fitted below a FTG .
2 .
avoid the capillary errors that would otherwise have entere similar pipett , and manomet wero connected with the air tube B. In .
to be , if desired , to follow with the eye a pa.rticular band during the changes of pr sure ( eflected by small steps and ernately in the two tubes ) , diminntive sses were provided by the motions of the ) could be made smooth and slow .
In way all doubt as obviated as to the idenbity of a band ; but after a little experience the precaution was to be unnecessary .
The manner of experimenting will now be evideot .
By adjnstment of the of the middle baud was broughb to defimte ition , determined by the web or otherwis ) , and pressures were measu .
Both pressures were then altered and atli nsted the band was brought back isely to its inal sition .
The ratio of the of pressnre is bhe ratio of the of the gases .
The process may be l'epeated backwards wards any number of times , so as to eliminate in great degree errors of the settings of the pressure During these vatiotlS a ious effect was nobiced , msde possible by ) independent action of the parts of ated at leveIs , as already referred to .
When the were stationary , they appeared straight , or nearly so , but when motion , ving to of pressnre , they became curved , even in .
the fiducial posibion , and always in such a manner tbab the ends .
The explanatio11 is readily seen to pend upon the temp of temperature which accompany compressio1 ) rarefaction .
The effect of a compression , for example , would not be attained until the gas had cooled back to its ture , and this recovery of temperatu would .
more quickly at the top and bottom , where t , he gas is in proximity to the metal , than in the part of the tube .
The success of the measures evidently requires that there should be no arent movement of the bands apart from real retardations in the tubes .
the apparatus wss at first arran , this condition was insufficiently satisfied .
Although all the parts were carried upon tl walls of the room , { requent and sudden displacements bands relatively to the web were seeIl to occur , probably in of the use of wood in some of the supports .
The observations could easily be arranged in such a manner that no systematic error could thence enter , but the agreement of individual measuref was impaired .
ubsequently a remedy was found in the use of a second sys .
em of bands , formed by which passed just above the 1896 .
] On some Physical of Argon ) ) nbes , to which , instead to the ) , the movable were referred .
Tho coincidence of the could be found to be maintained of movenlents both relato web .
isons of argon and air ( with ncarly the same refractivitics ) the changes of pressure about 8 in .
, deductions ntrn ) prcsfiure .
In one of uly ) , the numbers , buctions in inches of merc , stood .
Air .
8 .
9.96 1.77 Ratio -ing in .
of tJon bnced 8 in .
of dry a ich the oir and argon ( from the glob fi Iled , taken on July 17 , ecthc final as the mcall Retractivity of air cnce fitics , as ell the :-ln otlr to that is an ] lotropic forlll of oted The made , refer to i in .
Bnt ance of the bands at be delaected , the tlIat the sions that } Juld nluc b evcll the ) osen .
It muy that the ) acemcot R in the ) nted t bands , csponding to in .
of mcrcu ] been made bet air and ] ) ) ared by Ramsay , .
W. , who gave in .
lt otlce thab of eliuIlJ rkably 1 , 13 in .
pressure } the gus )need of .
The ratios gi by on Juiy we ] 0.147 , 0.146 , 0.145 , eaIl 0 , 014 , .
The ) ervations not made undel ' conditious , on account of the smallness of 206 Lord }-leigh .
[ Jan. 16 , the changes of air pressure ; but we may conclude with consider- able approximation The ]owest refractivity known is that of hydrogen , nearly of that of air .
iscosity of Argon and Hehum .
The viscosity was invesbigaed by the method of passage througl ] capillary tubes .
The approximate formula has been investigated by O. Meyer , the basis of Stokes ' theory for incompressible flnids .
Jf the pressure not too great , the volume delivered in time a tube of radius and length is given by volume being measured at the lower pressure , and denoting the viscosity of the gas .
In the comparison of different gases , may be the same , and then is proportioual to In the apparatus employed two gas pipettes and lllanometers , somewl ) similar to those shown in fig. 2 , were connected by a capillary tube of very small bore and about 1 metre long .
The was about 100 was caused to pass by a pressure of a fe centimetres of mercury , as as possible by means of tlIe pipettes .
There was a , almost inherent iu the use of mercury , in securing the right pressures during the first few seconds of an experiment ; bnt this was not of much importance as ths whole time amounted to several minutes .
The apparatus was tested upon hydrogen , and was found to give the received numbers with sufficient racy .
The results , to dry air , were for helium ; and for argon , somewhat higher than for oxygen which at present stands at the head of the list of the principal gases .
Gas Bath Springs .
In the original memoir upotl argon results were given of weighings of the residue from } Bath gas after removal of oxygen , carbonic anhydride , and , from which it appeared that the proportion of argon was only one-half of that contained in the idue , af er similar treatment , from the atmosphere .
After the discovery of helium by Professor msay , the question presented * ' Pogg .
Ann vol. 127 , p. 270 , 1866 .
Rayleigh tlnd Ra , msay , rans .
, vol. 186 , p. 227 , 1895 .
1896 .
] On jrties of rgou a .
207 itself as to } this conclusion might not be disturbed by presence in the Bath gas of helium , whose lightness would telld to compensate the extra detlsity of argon .
An examination of the gas which had stood in my oratory more a year having shown it still conrained no .
it was thou worth while to remove so as to determlne the proporlion that refuse oxidabion .
this purpose were rked up } ulltil , free to 8 .
On treatment } lol alkali the residue measured \ldquo ; and heli , if present .
On , the residue at atnlospheric pressure and th spectrum , it seeu to be mainly tbab of rgon , but an unmistakable exhibition of .
At this oscope of rather ] , but the om mple of the Bath ) cuum tubes .
J. , and iome of thelll showed sharply dolinod and ) live of elium a vacuum tnbe ) Rred b the helium in is not the lts to densify in Octobel ) .
to ] density tYith the propol.tion of residne ) Iound in tlst described , it to per cent. .
of a lJlore did the sidue .
Jb that some of the lost ) erVal b the iments 1 results are combuled in the above esbimate , Bnxton Cias .
Gns from the Buxton , kindly ( .ollected for me by } no apprec:iable oxygen .
rfhe mounl ed to about 2 per cent. of the volume .
Whcn its ined , tbc prcsctlcc of was suspected , but the appearance foeble to of a statement ) of l1elium is in ny case much in } Is tained the Atmosphere ' Apart from it } ; ) interest , this question is important ot on .
Since tho of ot line , we may } [ Jan. 16 , that the proportion of helium is less than 3 per cent. ; so that there vould be less than of helium ) atmosphere .
The experiment about to be described was an attetl ) to carry the tter further , and is founded upon the observation by Professor Ramsay , that the solubility of in water is only , less than one-fifth of that which we found for It is evident that if a of helium and argon be until here is only a small fraction over , tfIe of heliunx will be much increased in the idue .
have been made , of which that on October 6 , 189 the more elaborate .
About 60 .
of argon were shaken for a long time wibh boiled contained in a large flask .
hen the had ceaaed , the esidue of 30 .
was sparked a little en until no nitrogen could be seen in the spec .
It then treated a secord time with boiled v/ liter lntil irs was reduced to .
With this vac.uum tubes were charged son at two diffel.ent pressurcs .
In one of them could be detected ; nor was there any marked difference to seen betwee1l he spectra of the wasl ) and the unwt$shed argon .
Jf helium be resent in the atmosl ) here , it must be in very small quantity , probnbly much less than a -thousandth part . .
ions .
Athexls:\mdash ; British .
Annual .
No. 1 . .
London [ 1895 ] .
The Committee .
Anstin :Texas Academy of Science .
Transactions .
Vol. I. No. 4 . .
Ausiin 1895 .
The Academy .
altimore :\mdash ; Jobns Hopkins University .
] .
altimore 1895 .
University .
rade :.\mdash ; Royal Academy of via .
Spomenik .
Nos. 26 , 27 .
29 .
1895 ; Glass .
No. 48 .
[ Servian .
] elgrade 1895 .
The Academy .
Berli]):\mdash ; Deutsche Chemi.sche G-esellschaft .
Bericbte .
1895 . .
The Society .
Gesellschaft fur .
Bd .
XXII .
Nos. 8\mdash ; 9 . .
Berlin 1895 .
The Society .
PhysikalisclIe Gesellschaft .
Die Fortsobritte der Physik im Jahre 1889 .
xunschweig 1895 .
The Society .
:\mdash ; Not Verein .
en .
Bd .
XXXIII . .
Brunn ) ; XIII .
Bericht der Meteol'ologischen Commission .
1895 .
The Sooiety .
* ' Phil Irans , vol. 186 , p. 225 , 189\amp ;

