42 Mr. W. R. Bousfield and Dr. T. M. Lowry .
[ June 19 , was very small , but , as in the case of nickel , exhibited a change of sign , the reversal taking place in a field of 9500 c.g.s. ( See fig. 7 .
) The highest field obtained was only 11,000 c.g.s. , and as the self-demagnetising force must be very great in this case , it is possible that with much stronger fields the effect may increase rapidly .
The same specimen of iron was used as in the experiments with ordinary fields .
All the experiments described above were carried out in the Physical Laboratory of the University College of North Wales ; and , in conclusion , I desire to acknowledge my great obligation to Professor E. Taylor Jones for the interest he has taken in the work , and also for much valuable help and advice .
u Influence of Temperature on the Conductivity of Electrolytic Solutions .
" By W. R. Bousfield , M.A. , K.C. , M.P. , and T. Martin Lowry , D.Sc .
Communicated by Professor H. E. Armstrong , E.R.S. Received and read June 19 , 1902 .
The phenomenon of electrolysis is characteristic mainly of the liquid state , a liquid electrolyte usually ceasing to conduct when it passes into the gaseous or into the crystalline state .
The influence of temperature on the conductivity of a liquid such as an aqueous solution of hydrogen chloride is , however , of such a character as to indicate that an upper and a lower limit of conductivity may exist apart altogether from the boiling point and freezing point of the solution .
The present communication contains a summary of the evidence for the existence of these limits of conductivity , a brief discussion of their probable position on the scale of temperature in the case of some aqueous and other electrolytes , and a review of the influence of temperature on conductivity over the whole range of temperature within which electrolysis can take place .
Whatever view be taken of the nature of the process by which a conducting solution is formed on dissolving a salt , acid , or base , in an " ionising solvent , " there is every reason to believe that the process is only complete in presence of a very large excess of solvent , and that usually only a part of the solute is concerned in carrying the current .
The proportion of the solute that is thus rendered active in electrolysis is represented by a " coefficient of ionisation , " and two general methods are in use for determining its magnitude .
In the first method , the " equivalent conductivity , " A , of the solute is determined for a series of dilutions , and the ratio Xv/ Xoo of this constant at a dilution of v litres per equivalent to that at infinite dilution is taken to represent the coefficient of ionisation at volume v. This method is based on 1902 .
] Conductivity of Electrolytic Solutions .
the assumption that the " mobility " of the ions which carry the current is independent of the dilution , and is probably subject to serious errors when applied to solutions containing more than one equivalent of solute in 100 litres .
The second method is based on the determination ( usually from the boiling point or freezing point ) of the osmotic pressure of the solution .
The " active part of the solute produces an osmotic pressure n times as great as that produced by an equi-molecular quantity of an " inactive " solute , being the number of ions into which the molecules of the solute would be decomposed on electrolysis .
The coefficient of ionisation is deduced from the equation a i-1 -\#151 ; in which the factor i represents the ratio of the ' \#151 ; i. \#171 ; observed osmotic pressure to that calculated for an inactive solute at equal dilution .
This method of measuring a is also valid only in dilute solutions , is probably subject to error when applied to solutions containing more than one equivalent of solute in 10 litres .
In the majority of cases the magnitude of the coefficient of ionisation is found to decrease as the temperature rises , and the primary effect of an increase of temperature is therefore to reduce the amount of active material in the solution\#151 ; an effect which may be attributed to the gradual disappearance of the " ionising power " of the solvent .
But whilst the coefficient of ionisation usually decreases as the temperature rises , the equivalent conductivity at infinite dilution invariably increases .
This is due to an increase in the " mobilities , " u and v , of the kathion and anion , which together make up Ax , and is intimately related to the decreasing viscosity of the solution , which allows the migration of the ions to proceed more rapidly as the temperature rises .
The effect of temperature on the equivalent conductivity of an electrolytic solution is therefore determined by two opposing influences , and the temperature coefficient 1 dX* X dr will be - or + according as one or other of these influences predominates .
In the case of aqueous solutions , the temperature coefficient at 18 ' C. is always positive , and usually amounts to about 2 per cent , of the conductivity at 183 per degree Centigrade .
The conductivity temperature curves are very flat ( compare fig. 1 ) , and have frequently been represented by linear formulae such as Xt = X0 ( 1 but may often be more accurately represented by a parabolic formula such as A = A ( 1 + at + ( 3t2).If the linear or parabolic curves be produced in the direction of decreasing temperature , they would cut the axis * The temperature-coefficient \#151 ; \#151 ; of k specific conductivity is not identical with 1 d\m1 _ A dr 3 A dr of the solution , 1 die k dr approximately , where S is the coefficient of expansion Mr. W. E. Bousfield and Dr. T. M. Lowry .
[ June 19 , of temperature at points not more than 50 ' below the freezing point of water .
The point of intersection is an important constant Figl 1.\#151 ; Influence of temperature on the conductivity of very dilute solutions .
for any given solution , and we have been accustomed to refer to it as the conductivity zero of the solution .
At this temperature , if the observed relationship between conductivity and temperature should continue to hold good , the conductivity of the overcooled solution would become zero , and the conductivity zero may therefore be satisfactorily compared with the absolute zero of a gas thermometer at -273 ' .
The influence of temperature on the conductivity of aqueous solutions has been investigated by Grotrian , Kohlrausch , Arrhenius , Deguisne , * and others .
In an important paper which has recently appeared , !
Kohlrausch has deduced from Deguisne 's measurements the values of the temperature coefficient in aqueous solutions of infinitely great dilution , and has arrived at the important conclusion that the conductivity temperature curves for all such solutions would , if produced , cut the axis of temperature at points lying within a degree or two of - 38'5 ' C. , the differing slope of the lines being compensated by their differing curvature ( fig. 1 ) .
This temperature , which is almost independent of the nature of the solute , is evidently a fundamental constant of the solvent , and may be referred to as the " conductivity zero of the solvent .
" The physical meaning of the conductivity zero is a matter of some importance .
Kohlrausch states that the viscosity of water may be represented by the formula y = 2'989 ( + SS'h)-1'40 , which leads to an infinitely great viscosity at - 38''5 , and suggests that at this * ' Diss .
, Strassburg , ' 1895 .
t ' Sitz .
Prouss .
Akad .
Wiss .
, ' toI .
42 , p. 1026 , 1901 .
1902 .
] Conductivity of Electrolytic Solutions .
" critical temperature " the water would , " independently of crystallisation reach a lower limit of the liquid state , " the mobility of the ions being simultaneously reduced to zero .
The actual existence of such a sharply defined critical temperature appears to us to be somewhat improbable .
We consider it more likely that in an overcooled solution the relationship between conductivity and temperature , determined from observations above the freezing-point , would cease to hold good in the neighbourhood of the conductivity zero , and that even at considerably lower temperatures the electrolyte might still retain some appreciable conductivity .
We have obtained experimental evidence in support of this view from a study of the conductivity of glass , which may be looked upon as a typical example of an overcooled electrolyte .
The accompanying curve and table ( fig. 2 ) represents a series of observations which we GLASS \#163 ; 20 ' \#163 ; 40 ' Fig- .
2.\#151 ; Influence of temperature on the conductivity of glass .
have made on the change with temperature of the conductivity through the walls of a glass test-tube .
The test-tube was half-filled with mercury , and was placed inside a larger tube , also containing mercury , and heated in a sand-bath ; the inner tube contained a thermometer , Mr. W. 14 Bousfield and Dr. T. M. Lowry .
[ June 19 , and the conductivity between the two layers of mercury was determined by a potentiometer method ; the conductivities are expressed in arbitrary units .
Above 200 ' the curvature is very slight and the curve is similar to that of an aqueous electrolyte above 0 ' .
Extrapolation from this part of the curve would indicate the existence of a " conductivity zero " at about 185 ' C. , but as this temperature is approached the decrease of conductivity becomes much less rapid , the " critical temperature is passed without any abrupt change in the curve , and even below 100 ' the conductivity is still measurable .
Further evidence of a similar character is supplied by the temperature-viscosity curves .
The formula given by Kohlrausch leads to a limit of fluidity at \#151 ; 38 '5 , but no statement is made as to the experimental data on which it is based .
Thorpe and Kodger* give two formulae for the viscosity of water .
The first , r , = 5*9849(43*252 + t)~ expresses the experimental data from 0 ' to 100 ' , and would lead to a limit of fluidity at -43 ' *2 , a temperature within 5 ' of Kohlrausch 's critical temperature .
But the second formula , V = 58*7375(58*112 -M)-1"44 , which expresses with accuracy the viscosity of water between 0 ' and 8 ' , would lead to a limit of fluidity at - 58'T , that is , 20 ' below Kohlrausch 's " critical temperature .
" !
In this case , therefore , a change in the law governing the relationship between viscosity and temperature is already noticeable above the freezing point of water , and is of such a character as to lead to a " fluidity zero " considerably below the " conductivity zero " deduced from measurements between 2 ' and 34 ' C. We conclude therefore that , whilst the conductivity zero at \#151 ; 39 ' C. is an important physical constant of water , it is a measure of the properties of water between 2 ' and 34 ' only ( the temperature limits of Deguisne 's conductivity measurements ) , and not an actual critical temperature comparable with the freezing point .
In accordance with this view we have , in summarising the influence of temperature on conductivity ( fig. 3 ) , represented the conductivity as persisting at a temperature Tx considerably below the conductivity zero at T2 .
To express the relationship between conductivity and temperature , Deguisne and Kohlrausch employ the formula * ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1894 , vol. 185 , pp. 397\#151 ; 710 .
f A still more striking illustration of the influence of the experimental temperatures on the fluidity-limit is afforded by the case of active amyl alcohol ( Thorpe and Kodger , loo .
cit. , p. 542 ) .
The viscosity of this is represented by three different formulae , which hold good from 0 ' to 35 ' , 35'\#151 ; 73 ' , and 73'\#151 ; 124 ' , and would lead to zero values for the fluidity at \#151 ; 101 ' , \#151 ; 65 ' , and \#151 ; 8 ' respectively .
1902 .
] Conductivity of Electrolytic Solutions.47 Kt= Kls{l+cc(t-18 ) + / 3(t-l8Y } .
In the case of solutions of very great dilution , the coefficient which determines the curvature of the lines ( fig. 1 ) is related to the coefficient a , which determines the slope of the tangent at 18 ' C. , in accordance with the equation ( 3 = 0-0163 ( a-0-0174 ) , and the whole influence of temperature on conductivity is thus determined by a single arbitrary constant .
A similar equation is also used by Kohlrausch to express the influence of temperature on the separate ionic mobilities .
Negative values of occur only in the case of the hydrogen ion , a = +0-0154 , = -0-000033 , and the acids which contain that ion ; positive values of [ 3 range from that of the hydroxyl ion , a =+0-0179 , = +0-000008 , which obeys a law which is almost linear to that of the lithium ion , a =+0-0261 , = +0-000155 , where the curvature of the lines in the conductivity temperature diagram is very pronounced .
In order to make a direct comparison between conductivity and viscosity\#151 ; a comparison which is hardly possible when two entirely different types of formula are used for the two phenomena\#151 ; we have sought to express the viscosity of water by means of the formula Vis = { 1 + a ( ^ \#151 ; 18 ) 18)2 } .
In order to make the comparison as exact as possible , we have deduced the constants a and ( 3 from the values given by Thorpe and Rodger for the viscosity of water at 5'-45 , 13'-52 , and 30'-72 , the temperature limits being thus almost identical with those of Deguisne 's experiments , and have thus obtained the values a = +0-0251 , ( 3 = +0-000115 , for the two constants .
We find that between 5 ' and 55 ' this expression represents the experimental data with even greater closeness than the formula used by Thorpe and Rodger , but that above 55 ' it gives values smaller than those determined experimentally .
The closeness of the agreement is shown by the following table:\#151 ; Mr. W. R Bousfield and Dr. T. M. Lowry .
[ June 19 , t. \gt ; 1 ( obs .
) .
tj ( calc .
) Diff. i/ ( calc .
) Diff , ( Ihorpe and Rodger .
) ( Bousfield and Lowry .
) 5*45 0 *01494 0 *01494 0 0*01494 0 13 *52 0 *01181 0 *01179 -2 0 *01181 0 22 *02 0 *00955 0 *00951 -4 0 *00954 \#151 ; 1 30*72 0 *00786 0 *00784 \#151 ; 2 0*00786 0 39 *32 0 *00662 0*00661 0 0 *00662 0 47*03 0 *00576 0 *00577 + 1 0 *00576 0 55*53 0 *00501 0 *00502 -t-1 0 *00500 \#151 ; 1 The values of a and ft in this formula for the viscosity of water are considerably larger than those which express the influence of temperature on the conductivity of the majority of aqueous solutions , but agree remarkably closely with the values given by Kohlrausch for the conductivity of purified water ; this he found to have an-abnormally large temperature coefficient , the constants being a = + 0*0254 , \#151 ; +0*000130 , as compared with the values of the constants in the viscosity formula a= + 0*0251 .
+ 0*000115 .
The striking agreement between the constants in the two equations shows that not only do the conductivity and viscosity of water tend towards the same limiting temperature , but also that their variation with temperature can be expressed by one formula and represented by one curve ; between 2 ' and 22 ' the maximum divergence between the values calculated from the two formulae is only 0*2 per cent. The conductivity zero for water at \#151 ; 39 ' is not an isolated phenomenon , and although the data available are in no case so numerous or so accurate as in the case of water , it is possible to make at least an approximate determination of the position of the conductivity zero for a number of other solvents .
For this purpose three different methods are available .
( 1 .
) The influence of temperature on viscosity has been determined with great care by Thorpe and Rodger for a large number of liquids , several of which are capable of acting as ionising solvents .
In the case of these solvents the conductivity zero should lie at temperatures not far removed from the limits of fluidity deduced from the viscosity formulae .
In this way an approximate determination can be made of the conductivity zero of the following solvents:\#151 ; Acetone ... ... ... ... \#151 ; 210 ' C. Ethyl ether ... ... . .
\#151 ; 136 Methyl alcohol ... ... -164 Ethyl alcohol ... ..__ \#151 ; 210 1902 .
] Conductivity of Electrolytic Solutions .
49 In no case is the temperature coefficient of viscosity so great as in the case of water , and the conductivity zero for each of these liquids is evidently very far below the conductivity zero for water .
( 2 .
) At great dilutions the influence of temperature on ionisation is usually much reduced , and aqueous salt solutions of N/ 10Q0 strength have temperature coefficients of conductivity Avhich do not differ appreciably from those calculated for solutions of indefinitely great dilution .
These coefficients can be used in determining the conductivity zero of the solvent , and a rough estimation is possible from measurements made in much less dilute solutions .
The conductivity of a number of salts dissolved in liquid ammonia has been determined by Legrande* at temperatures ranging from -32 ' to -70 ' C. , the dilution in each case being greater than 100 litres per equivalent .
The mean temperature coefficient at -60 ' C. for the five salts was + 0012 , corresponding with a conductivity zero at - 140\ A similar examination of Walden and Centnerszwer 's measurements of solutions in liquid sulphur dioxide between 0 ' and -70'C.f serves to place the conductivity zero for this solvent at about - 160 ' C. The measurements of Dutoit and Friedrich ] ; of the conductivity between 0 ' and 25 ' of solutions of AmCNS and Nal in acetonitrile lead to a conductivity zero for the nitrile at - 90 ' C. ( 3 .
) The temperature coefficient of conductivity of purified water leads to a satisfactory value for the conductivity zero .
By applying a similar method to Fresnel 's measurements of the conductivity between -40 ' and -80 ' of purified ammonia S we have obtained for the conductivity zero the value - 130 ' , a value which is substantially in agreement with that deduced from the behaviour of Legrande 's salt solutions .
Whilst at low temperatures the effect of temperature on conductivity is determined mainly by the changing mobility of the ions , at higher temperatures the changing ionisation becomes the dominant factor .
And just as the increasing viscosity of the solution leads at low tern peratures towards a lower conductivity zero at which the viscosity of the liquid would altogether prevent electrolysis , so at high temperatures an upper limit may exist at which the conductivity would again become zero owing to the complete disappearance of ionisation .
In the case of aqueous solutions the indications of an upper conductivity zero are only slight .
At 18 ' the temperature coefficients of conductivity are all positive , and only in very exceptional cases have negative coefficients been observed , even at higher temperatures .
* * * S * Thesis , Paris , 1900 .
t 'Zeit .
Phys. Chetn .
, ' 1902 , vol. 39 , p. 512 .
t ' Bui .
Soc. China .
, ' 1898 , vol. 19 , pp. 321\#151 ; 337 .
S ' Zeit .
Electrochem .
, ' 1900 , vol. 6 , p. 485 .
VOL. LXXI .
E 50 Mr. W. B. Bousfield and Dr. T. M. Lowry .
[ June 19 , Nevertheless , when the influence of changing ionic-mobility is eliminated , and the coefficient of ionisation is dealt with separately , the decay of ionisation as temperature rises is in many cases very clearly marked , even at 0 ' C. , and in presence of a large excess of the solvent .
Thus Whetham* has shown that at a dilution of 1000 litres per molecule of solute the coefficient of ionisation of potassium chloride falls from 0*992 at 0 ' to 0*982 at 18 ' , and that of barium chloride from 0*969 at 0 ' to 0*954 at 18 ' ; in the case of copper sulphate no decrease occurs at dilutions greater than 1000 litres , but at a dilution of 100 litres the coefficient falls from 0*638 at 0 ' to 0*623 at 18 ' .
These and other measurements that have been made between 0 ' and 100* serve , however , mainly to show that within these limits the coefficient of ionisation is influenced only to a relatively small extent by temperature , and that the upper conductivity zero must lie very much further from the boiling point than the lower zero is removed from the freezing point .
The different behaviour of acids and salts , which is unimportant in the case of the lower conductivity zero , becomes a vital factor in discussing the possible existence of an upper conductivity zero .
Armstrong !
has already called attention to the importance of the fact that whilst the majority of salts are conductors se , the acids are , in the pure state , dielectrics , and only become electrolytes by interaction with an " ionising solvent .
" In virtue of their inherent power of " self-ionisation " the salts may therefore exhibit some conducting power independently of that due to the ionising properties of the solvent , whilst it is to be anticipated that the acids would cease to be electrolytes if the solvent , by reason of .
increasing temperature , should lose its power of ionisation .
For this reason evidence of the existence of an upper conductivity zero is to be looked for especially in solutions of substances which like the acids are incapable of self-ionisation .
The acids are also especially suited for this purpose owing to the fact that the mobility of the hydrogen ion increases relatively slowly with rising temperature .
Even at atmospheric temperatures the temperature coefficients for the acids , though positive , are relatively small , and the acids would therefore be the first to exhibit a maximum of conductivity and a reversal in the sign of the temperature coefficient .
This effect of decreasing ionisation was actually observed by Arrhenius in the case of phosphoric and hypophosphorous acids , which exhibit maxima of conductivity at 54 ' and 75 ' respectively , and maxima of conductivity have also been observed by Sachf in the case of aqueous solutions of copper sulphate .
In the majority of aqueous solutions the maximum of conductivity lies above the * ' Phil. Trans.,5 1900 , vol. 194 , pp. 321\#151 ; 360 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc.,5 1886 , vol. 40 , p. 268 .
J * Wied .
Ann.,5 1891 , vol. 43 , p. 212 .
1902 .
] Conductivity of Electrolytic Solutions .
51 \#166 ; boiling point and experimental work is rendered very difficult , owing to the ready solubility of glass in water at high temperatures ; this not only contaminates the solutions but greatly weakens the sealed tubes in which they are contained .
Hagenbach* has , however , made a single observation which is of importance as showing that even the salts of the alkali-metals may exhibit negative temperature coefficients at high temperatures ; in the case of an aqueous solution of KC1 , containing dissolved glass , he actually observed on one occasion a maximum of conductivity before the explosion of the tube took place at 310 ' .
Much more evidence is available for the existence of an upper conductivity zero in the case of non-aqueous solutions .
Franklin and Krausf have found that at high temperatures the conductivity of solutions in liquid ammonia decreases as the temperature rises\#151 ; an effect directly opposite to that observed by Legrande at low temperatures ; and MaltbyJ has shown that even at atmospheric temperatures the conductivity of an ethereal solution of hydrogen chloride decreases as the temperature rises , and in the neighbourhood of the critical temperature is only of the conductivity at 18 ' .
Negative temperature coefficients have also been observed by CattaneoS in solutions in ether , alcohol and glycerol .
The most valuable experimental data , however , are those derived from the study of solutions in liquid sulphur dioxide .
Hagenbach , || in order to ascertain whether the limit of conductivity was reached at the critical temperature , measured the conductivity of solutions in sulphur dioxide at temperatures ranging from 20 ' to 160 ' , and found that the temperature-coefficients between 100 ' and 140 ' of KC1 , KBr , KI , and Nal were all negative , and amounted to about 2 per cent , of the conductivity at 100 ' for each degree Centigrade .
The upper conductivity zero of these solutions , determined by extrapolation from the measurements between 130 ' and 150 ' , would lie in each case some 5 ' or 10 ' above the critical temperature of the solution , but immediately below the critical temperature the conductivity falls rapidly over a narrow range of temperature until it reaches the small but measurable conductivity of the gas .
It is to be noticed that the substances examined by Hagenbach are all self-ionising\#151 ; this would retard the decay of ionisation , and would have the effect of raising the upper temperature-limit of conductivity .
High temperature measurements have also been made by Walden and CentnerszwertI in the case ' .
# ' Ann. d. Physik , ' 1901 [ 5 ] , rol .
2 , p. 306 .
f ' Amer .
Chem. Jour .
, ' 1900 , vol. 24 , p. 83 .
X 'Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' 1895 , vol. 18 , p. 133 .
S * Kend .
Lincei ' [ 5 ] , vol. 2 , I , p. 295 , and II , p. 112 , 1893 .
|| ' Ann. d. Physik , ' 1901 [ 5 ] , vol. 2 , pp. 276\#151 ; 312 .
If 'Zeit .
Phys. Chem. , ' 1902 .
vol. 39 , p. 549 .
Mr. W. B. Bousfield and Dr. T. M. Lowry .
[ June 19 , of solutions in sulphur dioxide of hydrogen chloride , quinoline , and a number of organic iodides .
The first of these solutions is of special interest , since hydrogen chloride is known to be of itself a nonelectrolyte , and to possess no power of self-ionisation .
the conductivity of its solution in sulphur dioxide , unlike that of the salt-solutions examined by Hagenbach , appears to decrease regularly to a zero value at the critical temperature , which is therefore identical with the upper conductivity zero of the solution .
We are now in a position to review the influence of temperature on the conductivity of a " composite electrolyte " over the whole range of temperature within which it remains a conductor .
Its general character may be represented by means of a curve ( fig. 3 ) , in which tempera- D Axis i lG .
3.-_General scheme , showing the influence of temperature on the conductivity of a composite electrolyte .
tures are represented as abscissae on a horizontal axis and conductivities as ordinates .
At some intermediate temperature T3 , depending on the nature of the solvent and solute as well as on the concentration of the solution , the conductivity reaches a maximum and the temperature coefficient is momentarily zero .
As the temperature falls the conductivity decreases , the increasing viscosity more than counterbalancing the effects of increasing ionisation .
Over a considerable range BC the curve follows an approximately linear law , the line becoming concave to the axis of temperature near C , and convex near B On this part of the curve the conductivity of the majority of aqueous solutions must.be represented , the acids giving values on the concave and the sate on the convex part of the curve .
Thu , portmn of the curve would , if produced , cut the honzontal axis at 12 , the 1902 .
] Conductivity of Electrolytic Solutions .
53 lower conductivity zero of the solution ; but as this temperature is approached the curve probabty turns aside and becomes asymptotic to the xis of temperature .
Above the temperature of maximum conductivity the conductivity also decreases , the decreasing viscosity being now more than counterbalanced by the decreasing ionisation of the solution .
The decay of ionisation becomes more rapid as the temperature rises , and if the solute is not an electrolyte per se , the curve OF runs steadily down and cuts the axis at T4 , the critical temperature of the solution , which is thus the upper conductivity-zero of the solution .
In the case of very dilute solutions this would , of course , be identical with the critical temperature of the solvent .
If , however , the solute is capable of selfionisation , the curve EFG tends towards an upper conductivity zero at T5 a few degrees above the critical temperature , but as the critical temperature is approached the conductivity falls abruptly along GH to a value comparable with that which persists in the gaseous state HI .
[ Note added August 2 , 1902.\#151 ; The general scheme of fig. 3 serves to bring into prominence at least one important point that has been very generally overlooked , namely , that the normal form of the conductivity-temperature curve for a composite electrolyte is one which contains a point of inflexion .
Two such points are shown in fig. 3 , between B and C and between E and F. Of these , the former should be frequently observed in aqueous solutions , seeing that these give values tying on parts of the curve both above and below the inflexion .
A widespread impression exists , however , that an inflexion in the conductivity-temperature curve indicates some abnormal change in the character of the solution .
This impression has been strengthened , if indeed it has not been created , by the general adoption of a linear or parabolic formula to express the influence of temperature on conductivity .
Kohlrausch , in his detailed review of the literature of the subject , * makes no reference to the existence of inflected curves , and does not even hint at the possibility of curves of this type .
Trotsch , who observed inflexions in the case of a number of sulphates and the chlorides of copper and cobalt , !
regarded them as due to the decomposition of hydrates existing in the solution , whilst Donnan and Bassett , in a paper which has only just appeared , !
quote the inflexion observed by Trotsch as evidence for the existence of a complex ion in solutions of cobalt chloride .
According to the views here put forward , the conductivity-temperature curves are all inflected .
In the case of the acids , which owe their-conducting power entirety to the action of the solvent , the inflexion * ' Leitvermogen der Elektrolyte , ' pp. 116-123 and 195-199 .
+ ' Ann. Phys. Chem. , ' 1890 [ iii ] , vol. 41 , pp. 259-287 .
X 'Jour .
Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 81 , p. 953 , August , 1902 .
VOL. LXXI .
F 54 Prof. A. E. Wright .
Measurement of [ Aug. 5 , lies below 0 ' ; in the case of the alkalies our own experiments have shown that the curves , which have usually been represented as straight lines or flat parabolas , all exhibit inflexions , in the case of the alkalies , LiOH , NaOH and KOH at about 40 ' , and in the case of the alkaline earths , Ca(OH)2 , Sr(OH)2 and Ba(OH)2 , at about 25 ' ; in the case of the less highly ionised salts , such as magnesium sulphate , the inflexion also lies below 100 ' , but in the case of salts such as potassium chloride , which have a high coefficient of ionisation in solution and are also electrolytes per se in the fused state , the inflexion lies above the boiling-point of the solution .
] " On the Measurement of the Bactericidal Power of Small Samples of Blood under Aerobic and Anaerobic Conditions , and on the Comparative Bactericidal Effect of Human Blood drawn off and tested under these Contrasted Conditions .
" By A. E. Wright , M.D. , Professor of Pathology , Army Medical School , Netley .
Communicated by Professor J. It .
Bradford , F.R.S. Received April 7 , 1902 .
Received in revised form August 5 , 1902 .
Section I.\#151 ; Method of Measuring the Bactericidal Power of the Blood under Ordinary ( Aer ) Conditions .
As a preliminary to placing on record certain observations made in connection with the bactericidal power of human blood , I propose to describe in detail the technique which has been elaborated by me with a view to carrying out these and similar investigations .
A measurement of the bactericidal power of the blood involves in the first place a standardisation of bacterial culture employed .
I. Standardisation of the Bacterial Culture employed .
A standardisation which would seem to satisfy all practical requirements can be achieved ( a ) by employing in the course of a series of experiments one and the same stock of bacteria ; ( b ) by employing in each experiment a young ( e.g. , a 24 hour old ) culture ; ( c ) by determining in each case the number of living bacteria contained in a measured volume of that culture .
The determination last mentioned* involves\#151 ; -first , the making of a * ( Added 3.8.02 .
) Where , in lieu of the number of living bacteria , the total number of bacteria in a culture is to be determined , this1 can be directly determined under the microscope by the method I have described in the 'Lancet ' of July 5 , 1902 .

