PHILOSOPHICAL TRA NSACT IO 0N S. XIX .
An Account of some organic Remains found near Brentford &amp; Middlesex .
By the late Mr. William Kirby Trimmer .
Communicated in a Lettcr from Mr. James R. Trimmer to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R.S. Read March 4 , 1813 .
SIR , MY late brother , in digging clay near Brentford , for the manufacture of bricks and tiles , frequently found the remains of animals and extraneous fossils , which you , Sir , with other Gentlemen of the Royal Society , very often inspected , and the interest which you took in them added much to his ardour in collecting them .
A few days before he was attacked with the illness which terminated in his death , he had drawn up an account of the different strata in which the organic remains in his cabinet were found deposited , with the intention of submitting it to you .
His long illness and other circumstances have delayed my communicating to you earlier the enclosed letter , which I found amongst his papers ; and I request , Sir , that if you should deem it of sufficient interest , you will do me the honour of laying it before the Royal Society .
I have the honour to be , Sir , with great respect , your much obliged humble servant , JAMES R. TRIMMER .
Brentford , Feb. 1813 .
To the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. &amp;c. &amp;c. &amp;c. SIR , My collection of organic remains having been nearly formed under your own eye , and my zeal in the collection , and care in the preservation of them , having been greatly increased by the importance which yourself and other Gentlemen of the Royal Society have attached to them , I do myself the honour of presenting to you the following statement of the manner in which they were deposited in the strata where they have been found ; conceiving that however curious the specimens may be in themselves , they can conduce but little to the advancelent of geological knowledge , if that part of their history is wanting .
The specimens have been collected from two fields , not contiguous to each other ; therefore to avoid confusion , I shall take each field separately , first describing the strata as far as they have come within my knowledge , and afterwards I shall speak of the organic remains as they were respectively found in those strata .
The first field is about half a mile north of the Thames at Kew bridge its surface is about twenty-five feet above the Thames at low water .
The strata here are first , sandy loam from six to seven feet , the lowest two feet slightly calcareous .
Second , sandy gravel a few inches only in thickness .
Third , loam slightly calcareous from one to five feet ; between this and the next stratum , peat frequently intervenes in small patches of only a few yards wide , and a few inches thick .
Fourth , gravel containing water ; this stratum varies from two to ten feet in thickness , and is always the deepest in the places covered by peat ; in these places the lower part of the stratum becomes an heterogeneous mass of clay , sand , and gravel , and frequently exhales a disagreeable muddy smell .
Fifth , the main stratum of blue clay , which lies under this , extends under London and its vicinity , the average depth of this clay has been ascertained , by wells that have been dug through it , to be about two hundred feet under the surface of the more level lands , and proportionably deeper under the hills , as appears from Lord SPENCER'S well at Wimbledon , which is five hundred and sixty-seven feet deep .
This stratum , besides figured fossils , contains pyrites and many detached nodules ; at the depth of twenty feet there is a regular stratum of these nodules , some of which are of very considerable size .
In the first stratum , as far as my observation has extended , no remains of an organised body has ever been found , and as my search has not been very limited , I may venture to say it contains none .
In the second stratum , snail shells , and the shells of river fish have been found , and a few bones of land animals , but of inconsiderable size , and in such a mutilated state , that it cannot be ascertained to what class they belong .
In the third stratum , the horns and bones of the ox , and the horns , bones , and teeth of the deer have been found , and also , as T2 133 in the second stratum , snail shells and the shells of river fishy In the fourth'stratum were found teeth and bones of both the African and Asiatic elephant , teeth of the hippopotamus , bones , horns , and teeth of the ox .
A tusk of an elephant measured , as it lay on the ground , nine feet three inches , but in attempting to remove it , it broke into small pieces .
When this stratum dips into the clay , and becomes a mixed mass , as before stated , it is seldom without the remains of animals .
In the fifth stratum , namely the blue clay , the extraneous fossils are entirely marine , with the exception of some specimens of fruit and pieces of petrified wood , the latter of which may be considered as marine , because when of sufficient size , they are always penetrated by teredines .
The other fossils from this stratum are nautili , oysters , pinnsa marinas , crabs , teeth and bones of fish , and a great variety of small marine shells ; this stratum has been penetrated hitherto in this field only to the depth of thirty feet , throughout which the specimens found were dispersed , without any regularity .
The second field is about one mile to the westward of the former , one mile north of the Thames , and a quarter of a mile to the eastward of the river Brent ; its height abqve the Thames , at low water , is about forty feet .
The strata are , first , sandy loam , eight or nine feet , in the lowest three feet of which it is slightly calcareous .
Second , sand , becoming coarser towards the lowest part , and ending in sandy gravel from three to eight feet .
Third , sandy loam highly calcareous , having its upper surface nearly level , but gradually increasing in thickness from a feather edge to nine feet .
Below this are two strata of gravel and clay , as in the other field , but as these strata have been only occasionally pence .
trated in digging for water , nothing therefore is known with respect to them , but that they exist there .
In the first stratum , as in the other field , no organic remains have been observed .
In the second , but always within two feet of the third stratum , have been found the teeth and bones of the hippopotamus , the teeth and bones of the elephant , the horns , bones , and teeth of several species of deer , the horns , bones , and teeth of the ox , and the shells of river fish The remains of hippopotami are so extremely abundant , that in turning over an area of one hundred and twenty yards in the present season , parts of six tusks have been found of this animal , besides a tooth and part of the horn of a deer , part of a tusk , and part of a grinder of an elephant , and the horns with a small part of the skull of an ox .
One of these horns I had an opportunity of measuring , as it lay on the ground , and found it to be four feet and a half in length , following the curve , and five inches in diameter at the large end ; it was found impracticable to remove it , otherwise than in fragments , which I have preserved , and have hopes of being able to put a considerable part of it together .
The immense size of this horn is rendered more remarkable , by another horn from the same spot , which measures but six inches in length .
Though this stratum is so extremely productive of the remains of animals , yet there are but few good cabinet specimens from it , owing , it is presumed , to their having been crushed at the time they were buried , and to the injury they have since received from moisture .
It is necessary to remark , that the gravel stones in this stratum do not appear to have been rounded in the usual way by attrition , and that the bones must have been deposited after the flejh was of-F because , in no instance have two bones been found together which were joined in the living animal ; and further , that the bones are not in the least worn , as must have been the case had they been exposed to the wash of a sea beach .
In the third stratum , viz. calcareous loam , have been found the horns , bones , and teeth of the deer , the bones and teeth of the ox , together with snail shells and the shells of river fish .
Brentford , in the neighbourhood of which are the fields I have mentioned , is situated on the north bank of the Thames , and is six miles west of London .
The fall of the Thames from Brentford to its mouth at the Nor , * is estimated at seven feet .
I have the honour to be , with great respect , Sir , your much obliged and obedient humble servant , WM .
KIRBY TRIMMER .
Brentford .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
The following sketches ( see Plates VIII , IX , X , XI , XII .
) will give a tolerably correct idea of the state in which the bones were found .
PLATE VIII .
Fig. i. The grinding tooth of an Asiatic elephant .
Fig. 2 .
The grinding tooth of an African elephant .
PLATE IX .
Three grinding teeth of the hippopotamus .
PLATE X. A tusk and fore tooth of the hippopotamus .
PLATE XI .
Bones of the deer kind .
A lower jaw , two grinding teeth , and a bone of the leg .
PLATE XII .
Two portions of the horns of the deer .
One set upon a bony pedicle , which is not the case in any recent deer , except in a small species found in Prince 's Island in the East Indies .
137

