A paper was read , " On the Structure of the Brain in Marsupial Animals .
" By Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S. , Hunterian Professor o ?
Anatomy to the Royal College of Surgeons .
The author describes a remarkable modification in the commissural apparatus , apparently provided with a view to establish communications between the cerebral hemispheres , which he has observed in the brains of marsupial animals , and which has hitherto been regarded as constituting the essential difference between the brains of oviparous and mammiferous vertebrata , but which he considers as indicating a certain relation between the greater perfection of that organ , resulting from the superior magnitude of the great commissure , or corpus callosum , and the placental mode of developement in the true mammalia .
In a former paper headduced evi ?
dence tending to show that both a small developement of the cere ?
bral organ , and an inferiority of intelligence are the circumstances in the habits and structure of this singular tribe of animals most constantly associated with the peculiarities of their generative economy : and the repeated dissections hehas since made , an account of which is given in the present paper , have afforded him the most satisfactory confirmation of this coincidence , between a brief intra-uterine existence , together with the absence of a placental connexion between the mother and the foetus , and an inferior degree of cerebral developement .
Thus , on comparing the structure of the brain in the Beaver and in the Wombat , he finds that the corpus callosum , or great commissure which unites the supraventricular masses of the hemispheres in the former , as well as in all other placentally developed mammalia , and which exists in addition to the fomix , or hippocampal commissure , is wholly absent in the latter animal : and that a similar deficiency exists in the brain of the Great and Bush Kangaroos , of the Vulpine Phalanger , of the Ursine and Mange 's Dasyurus , and of the Virginian Opossum ; whence he infers that it is probably the characteristic feature of the structure of the marsupial division of mammalia .
In this modification of the commissural apparatus , the Marsupiata present a structure of brain which is intermediate between that of the Placental Mammalia and Birds ; and hence the Marsupiata , together with the Monotremata , may be regarded as constituting a distinct and peculiar group in the former of these classes , although they include forms , which typify the different orders of the ordinary Mammalia .

