Mr. G. Gore on Electrotorsion .
1874 .
] IV .
" On Electrotorsion .
" By George Gore , E.R.S. Received November 26 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) This communication contains an account of a new phenomenon ( of rods and wires of iron becoming twisted while under the influence of electric currents ) , and a full description of the conditions under which it occurs , the necessary apparatus , and the methods of using it .
The phenomenon of torsion thus produced is not a microscopic one , but may be made to exceed in some cases a twist of a quarter of a circle , the end of a suitable index moving through a space of 80 centimetres ( =31 inches ) .
It is always attended by emission of sound .
The torsions are produced by the combined influence of helical and axial electric currents , one current passing through a long copper-wire coil surrounding the bar or wire , and the other , in an axial direction , through the iron itself .
The cause of them is the combined influence of magnetism in the ordinary longitudinal direction induced in the bar by the coil-current , and transverse magnetism induced in it by the axial one .
The torsions are remarkably symmetrical , and are as definitely related in direction to electric currents as magnetism itself .
The chief law of them is\#151 ; -A .
current flowing from a north to south spoils produces lefthanded torsion , and a reverse one right-handed torsion ( i. e. in the direction of an ordinary screw ) .
Although each current alone will produce its own magnetic effect , sound , and internal molecular movement , neither alone will twist the bar , unless the bar has been previously magnetized by the other .
Successive coil-currents alone in opposite directions will not produce torsion , neither will successive and opposite axial ones .
The torsions are influenced by previous mechanical twist in the iron , by mechanical tension , and by terrestrial magnetic induction .
The direction of them depends both upon that of the axial and of the coil-currents , but appears to be determined most by the former .
A few cases occur in which the currents , instead of developing torsion , produce detorsion , but only two instances , out of many hundreds , have been met with in which torsion was produced in a direction opposite to that required by the law .
Single torsions vary in magnitude from 0*6 millim. to nearly 30 millims. of movement of the end of an index 47 centimetres long ; the smaller ones occur when the two currents are transmitted alternately , and the large ones when they are passed simultaneQusly ; the former generally leave the bar in a twisted state , the latter do not .
Those produce y axial currents succeeding coil ones are nearly always much larger than those yielded by coil-currents succeeding axial ones , because the resi ua magnetism left by the coil-current is the strongest .
The order of succession of the currents affects the torsions in all cases , altering t eir magnitudes , and in some few instances even their directions .
n s e 5g Prof. J. Tyndall the [ Jan. 15,1 all the torsional effects are modified by the mechanical and magnetic properties of that substance .
t _ Each current leaves a residuary magnetic effect in the bar , amounting in iron to about one tenth of its original influence .
The residuary magnetism of coil-currents is affected and sometimes reversed by axial ones ; and that of axial currents is also removed by coil ones , and by a red heat .
The condition left by an axial current is smaller in degree and less stable , in a vertical iron wire or one in the terrestrial magnetic meridian , than that left by a coil one , partly because of the influence of terrestrial magnetism ; but in a position at right angles to that the effect is different .
The torsion produced by a coil-current may be used as a test , and partly as a measure , of the residuary effect of an axial one ; and that produced by an axial current may be employed to detect , and to some extent measure , ordinary magnetism in the bar .
As an opposite coil-current at once reverses the ordinary longitudinal magnetism of a bar of iron , so also an opposite axial one at once reverses its transverse magnetism . .
Many instances have been met with in which the transverse and longitudinal magnetic states produced by the two currents coexisted in the same substance .
The torsional influence of the excited helix is distributed equally throughout its length ; so also is that of the current in the bar .
All the torsions are closely related to the well-known electric sounds , and to particular positions and internal movements of the particles of the iron .
Signs of electrotorsion were obtained with a bar of nickel , but not with wires of platinum , silver , copper , lead , tin , cadmium , zinc , magnesium , aluminium , brass , or German-silver , nor with a thick rod of zinc , or a cord of gutta percha .
January 15 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following Paper was read j " Preliminary Account of an Investigation on the Transmission of Sound by the Atmosphere .
" By John Tyndall , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received January 1st , 1874 .
This notice embraces the scientific results of an inquiry on Fog-signals , undertaken at the instance of the Elder Brethren of the Trinity House , and communicated with their friendly concurrence to the Royal The investigation was begun on the 19th of May , 1873 , and continued till the 4th of July .
It was resumed on the 8th of October , and con-

