360 Mr. W. Edmunds .
[ Mar. 10 , XI .
V Effects of partial Thyroidectomy in Animals .
" By Walter Edmunds , F.R.C.S. Communicated by Dr. J. R. Bradford , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1896 .
( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
) Gley , of Paris , has shown , in the case of dogs , that if in each of the two lobes of the thyroid gland the parathyroid be separated from the thyroid tissue proper , and the latter ( that is to say the bulk of the thyroid ) be excised and the two parathyroids left , these are so sufficiently able to carry on the functions of the thyroid gland as to keep the dog alive and apparently in good health : further , if the two parathyroids are subsequently excised , the dog will die with symptoms of athyroidea .
It is not , however , even necessary to leave both the parathyroids , for in two experiments I have found the dog live when , only one parathyroid was left , the animal dying only when subsequently the parathyroid was excised .
Gley also found that if partial thyroidectomy was so performed as to remove both the parathyroids , it was necessary , in order that the dog might live , to leave considerably more than half of one lobe of thyroid tissue proper ; my own results agree with this .
The changes which ensue in the portions of thyroid tissue and parathyroids left in situ in these experiments are of interest .
The portion of thyroid hypertrophies , obviously , as a rule , and microscopically , there is found\#151 ; ( 1 .
) An enlargement of the vesicles ; ( 2 .
) The secreting cells lining the vesicles become columnar , as described by Hurthle ; ( 3 .
) The inner wall of the vesicles becomes convoluted and raised into minute papillae ( as shown in accompanying figure ) ; the effect of this is to greatly increase the area of the inner surface of the vesicle , and thus allow of a much greater number of secreting cells being arranged one deep on the wall of the vesicle : indeed , very possibly , the cause of the alteration is the demand for more thyroid secretion leading to an increase in the number of secreting cells which would require and make an increase of area of basement membrane , a simple enlargement of the vesicle , without any papillae , would no doubt effect the same , but the mutual pressure of the vesicles and that of the connective tissue between them would prevent this .
( 4 .
) The secretion in the vesicles is altered ; there is comparatively little ordinary colloid , but , instead , a substance which stains much less readily and appears to be of a more watery consistence .
It is worthy of note that these appearances are almost identical with those found in the enlarged goitre in cases of Graves 's disease : 1896 .
] Effects of partial Thyroidectomy Animals .
Fig. 1 .
From a dog the whole of one lobe of the thyroid , including the parathyroid , was removed , and also the lower five-sixths of the other lobe , leaving only the upper sixth and the parathyroid .
Figure shows ( magnified 90 times ) a section of the thyroid tissue proper left ; it was removed from the dog after 132 days .
Fig. 2 .
Section of hypertrophied thyroid in a case of Graves 's disease ( x 110 ) .
there too the secreting cells have " become columnar , the walls of the vesicles are similarly convoluted ( see figure ) , and the secretion consists only to a small extent of normal colloid , but mainly of a substance which does not stain readily , and appears to be more watery .
This resemblance is so close that it suggests that the cause of the goitre in Graves 's disease is an attempt at compensation of some kind ; if so it would be necessary , in order to account for the extent and persistence of the change , further to suppose that the attempt at compensation was unsuccessful .
The parathyroid that is left in these experiments also enlarges .
362 Sir J. W. Dawson .
Additional Report on Erect [ Mar. 19 , Microscopically the changes appear to be mainly of the nature of hypertrophy ; the parathyroid of the dog , like that of the rabbit under similar circumstances , does not develop into normal thyroid tissue , no vesicles develop and no Colloid forms .
f. Another change was noticed in these animals ; in two dogs , in one of which only one lobe of the thyroid had been left , and in the other only one parathyroid , it was seen that the eye on the side on which no thyroid tissue whatever had been left was more widely dilated than the other eye : this result cannot be explained by injury to the sympathetic , but the experiment requires repetition ; it is , however , in accord with some experiments in rabbits in which the parathyroids had been excised ; it was noticed that in some of these rabbits the eyes had become more prominent , judging that is by comparison with controls especially selected for each rabbit on account of equal prominence of eyes .
XII .
" Additional Report on Erect Trees containing Animal Remains in the Coal Formation of Nova Scotia .
" By Sir J. William Dawson , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1896 .
In April , 1892 , I communicated to this Society a report supplementary to my paper of 1882 on the above subject.* This was published in the 4 Proceedings ' of the Society , Vol. 52 .
In this report reference was made to the work done by Dr. Scudder , of Cambridge , U.S. , on the Myriapods and Arachnids of the reptiliferous trees .
Dr. Scudder 's results have now been published with two illustrative plates in the 4 Contributions to Canadian Palaeontology of the Geological Survey of Canada , ' Vol. 2 , Part I , 1895 .
In this paper Dr. Seudder describes three additional Myriapods and three Scorpions , making in all eight species of Millipedes and three of Scorpions which the erect trees of the South Joggins have added to the fauna of the Carboniferous Period .
In the spring of 1893 I was informed by Mr. P. W. McNaughton of the South Joggins , who had kindly undertaken to examine the cliff for me , that he had observed in two distinct beds considerably below that which had afforded the twenty-four erect trunks taken out Of the cliff and reef at Coal-mine Point and reported on in 1882 , erect stumps which he believed to contain animal remains .
As I was at the time incapacitated for field work by the effects of a serious illness , I made arrangements , with the aid of Mr. McNaughton , to have the two trees in sight removed from the cliff and boxed up in as large pieces as possible and forwarded to me in Montreal .
* * Phil. Trans./ Part II , 1882 , p. 621 .

