]\gt ; VJII .
On the Osmotic Pressures of Aqueous Sotutions of Calcium Ferrocyanide .
Part I. Concentrated Sotutions .
By the OF BERKELEY , F.R.S. , E. G. J. HARTLEY , B.A. ( Oxon .
) , and C. V. BURTON , D. Sc. ( Lond. ) .
Receiyed July 4 , \mdash ; Read November 5 , 1908 .
IN the following communication the experiments on the direct measurement of the osmotic pressures , on the yapour pressures , and on the densities have been carried out in conjunction with Mr. E. G. J. HARTLEY , those on the compressibilities with Dr. C. V. BURTON .
In the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' Series vol. ( 1906 ) , pp. 156-169 , Mr. HARTLEY and I gave a preliminary account of the determination of the osmotic pressures of strong aqueous solutions of cane sugar by means of measurements of the relative lowering of their vapour pressures as compared to that of water .
We deduced a formula for the connection between the vapour and osmotic pressures of a solution , which , in view of the experimental errors , justified the neglect of corrections due to the compression of the solution and of the solvent .
Since then Prof A. W. PORTER Proc. has put forward an exact equation in which the influence of these two factors can be taken into account ; increased experience with , and further modifications of , the vapour-pressure apparatus apparently justified the belief that the experiments would be more accurate , and therefore it seemed advisable to endeavour to obtain complete data for the aqueous solutions of some one substance , so as to test the practical applicability of the new formula in its entirety .
The equation in question is ( 1 ) and the notation is as follows:\mdash ; For the Solution The hydrostatic pressure on the solution is . . . . . .
The vapour pressure when the solution is in contact with its own vapour alone . . . . . . . . . .
Reduction of volume when 1 gramme of solvent escapes at pressure Osmotic equilibrium pressure for a hydrostatic pressure . . . . .
VOL. CCIX . .
2 A 28.11.08 178 THE EARL OF BERKELEy , MR. G. J. HARTLEy AND DR. C. : For th Specific volume at hydrostatic pressures . . . . .
Vapour pressure when the solvent is in contact with its own yapour alone Specific volume of the vapour when under various pressures , \amp ; c. An examination of the equation will show that the following data are required:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The densities of solutions of different concentrations at the temperature at which the work was carried out , namely , C. ( 2 ) A series of measurements of the relative lowering of the vapour pressures of the solutions at C. ( 3 ) A corresponding series of measurements of the direct osmotic equilibrium pressures for the purpose of comparison with those to be deduced from the measurements of ( 2 ) by means of the equation .
( 4 ) Measurements of the compressibilities of the solutions and of water .
( 5 ) A knowledge of the change in the specific volume of water vapour with pressure\mdash ; this knowledge we assume is given by REGNAULT'S work .
Choice of Solute .
Owing to the fact that , in the direct measurement of osmotic pressures , the copper ferrocyanide membrane is semipermeable to but few substances , the choice is strictly limited .
In calcium ferrocyanide a substance was found which seemed likely to throw considerable light on osmotic phenomena .
Aqueous solutions of this substance have the following properties : copper ferrocyanide membrane is practically impermeable to the salt .
The salt is very soluble , so that strong solutions can be obtained and hence high equilibrium pressures ; the solutions at all strengths are apparently stable enough at C. to allow the necessary data to be obtained .
The solutions show a considerable shrinkage on dilution , and this fact makes it possible to determine experimentally the of the equation .
In this part of the communication the work is limited to concentrations of from 30 to 50 allhydrous salt to 100 .
of water .
These limits are imposed upon us by the fact that weaker solutions have vapour pressures differing little from that of pure water , and , consequently , measurements of the relative lowering of vapour pressures would entail very lengthy experiments , while the stronger solution has an osmotic equilibrium pressure of about 130 atmospheres , which is near the utmost pressure we can obtain with our apparatus .
* Even for a solution of 30 gr. anhydrous salt in 100 .
water it is necessary to pass the air current through the vessels for .
period of seven days before the difference between the loss of weight of the solution and that of the water is sufficient to give accurate resuIts .
OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS OF CALCIUM .
179 Scheme of ations .
About 500 .cm .
of solution are necessary for a ation of equilibrium pressure and vapour pressure ; as two independent measurements of these quantities are required at some five points in the total range of 40 to 130 atmospheres , it follows that a large amount of salt was necessary .
To save salt , and in order to have a direct comparisoll between the two methods ot measuring osmotic pressures , it was decided to use the same " " make up\ldquo ; of solution for both these measurements and the densities .
The procedure adopted was to make up the solution in the morning ( a portion of salt being set apart for analysis ) and weigh it , and determine its density in the evening .
The vapoul-pressure vessels were then filled and got ready for weighing ; and at the same time the direct osmotic- pressure apparatus was set up for " " guard-ring leak\ldquo ; ( see ' Phil. Trans vol. p. 490 ) .
The next morning the vapour-pressure vessels were weighed , placed in the bath , and the air current started ; meanwhile the direct determination of the equilibrium pressure was carried out and the tube set up for " " solution leak\ldquo ; .
cit. , .
of the Salt .
The calcium ferrocyanide was obtained from lSIessrs .
Kahlbaum as their purest .
The first lot of about 2 .
was found to contain some potassium , probably in the form of the double salt .
This lot , and also all succeedin ones , some 10 in all , was dissolved to form as nearly a saturated solution at the laboratory temperature as possible ( without warming ) , and then filtered through a Chamberland porcelain filter .
The salt was then recovered by recrystallization .
Various methods of recrystallization were tried , but the best was to pass , by means of a suction pulnp , a steady stream of filtered air over crystallizing dishes containing the solution , and at the same time maintain them at from C. to C. * The yarious crops were ffom mother liquor by means of a platinum centrifugalizing machine ; they were then powdered and dried in the air current at the temperature of the laboratory .
Analyses of samples of the 1st and 2nd recrystallization showed no marked difference in composition , but it should be mentioned that sometimes the salt came out of solution slightly green instead of yellow , and although neither in analysis nor in the experiments ( where want of the yellow salt compelled the use of the ) was there found to be any difference in the results , yet it was thought bettel to avoid the use of these crops as much as possible .
It was found that , on olonged standingr , a trace of precipitate came out of solution\mdash ; this we suspected to be , but tests failed to confirm this\mdash ; the quantity was not enough for analysis .
following table gives the analytical results:\mdash ; * The solutions seem to decompose at higher tempel'atures .
180 THE EARL OF BERKELEy , MR. E. G. J. HARTLEY AND DR. C. .
BURTON : crysta .
It is to be noted that ROSCOE and SCHORLEMMER ( 2nd ed. , ' Treatise on Chemistry , vol. ii .
, p. 1025 , stated that the salt crystallizes with ; our results point , however , to llAq .
The foregoing results , considering the imperfection of analytical methods , seemed to justify the assumption that the salt is of unvarying composition as far as the metallic radical is concerned ; but as it is a highly hydrated salt , with presumably a vapour pressure , it was considered necessary to determine the water content of a sample of the salt used in each " " make up\ldquo ; of solution .
These determinations are given in the table of the results of the direct osmotic-pressure measurements ( p. 191 ) , and were obtained by dryin the salt to constant weight in an air oven .
DENSITIES .
A .cm .
and a 500 .cm .
flask were obtained , with graduated necks , whose diameter was such that 1 cm .
of neck corresponded to 1 c.cm .
capacity , and the graduations were in millimetres .
The back of the neck was of milk glass , with a blue lin running down the middle ( Prof SCHELLBACH'S device for burettes ) .
By this means , readings estimated to mm. could be obtained with fair accuracy .
The necks were calibrated by adding weighed quantities of water to the flask ( already filled with ) when in a constant temperature bath at C. and also at C. The meniscus was read through a telescope and care was taken to avoid parallax .
The capacity of the flask was determined by weighing against a counterpoise on a large Oertlin balance .
A similar process was followed for the determination of the densities .
The flask was filled , weighed , and placed in ice , and the level read when the solution had ceased contracting\mdash ; generally in about 5 hours ' time .
Experimental Error .
It was found that the readings of the meniscus level could be relied on to mm. ; this corresponds to a maximum error of c.cm .
on 400 c.cm .
, or OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE .
181 1 part in 20,000 .
It was not considered necessary to correct for the volume of liquid above the bottom of the meniscus as the error appertains to botl ] the determination of capacities and of the den sity .
One uncertainty remains , in that when up the solution , the lleck above the level has been wetted an unknown , and possibly variable , quantity of liquid is left adhering .
There is of correction for this , but the fact that the densities of slightly solutions enerally follow the weight concentration indicates that this source of error is of no reat importance .
In the following table all the results on the densities of the solutions are iven .
The first column gives the weight coltcentration , i.e. , the number of of anhydrous salt in 100 .
water , and the second gives the density .
TABLE I. C. TABLE IA.\mdash ; Mean Values .
LOWERING 0F THE VAPOUR PRESSURE .
During the progress of the research it was found that was a disagreement of some two or three per cent. between the direct measurement of the pressure and the same when calculated by means of ] equation from the lowering of the vapour pressure of the solutions .
The cause of this discrepancy is surmised to be due to the fact that the exlJeriments were carried out in air at atmospheric pressure , while Prof PORTER'S equation implies vacuum conditions ; and although by modifying the equation to suit our requirements we obtain results which are in close agreement , yet the values for the vapour density was not used in the final computations\mdash ; it is known to be wrong\mdash ; snfficient time not given for the temperature of the solution to become constant C. THE OF RKELEY , MR. G. J. HARTLEY AND DR. C. .
BURTON : pressure and density of water vapour in air , which used in the reduction , may be somewhat in error It is , therefore , thought advisable to give somewhat full details of the various devices tried and of the test experiments made .
ement in the and Experiments .
Mcthod of kceping at C.\mdash ; A large wooden tub was kept filled with ice water ; a shall watel pump , actuated by the laboratory shaftin , pumped the water the tub into the bath , and this water syphoned back into the tub .
The temperature on a long run varied about to C. It may be pointed out that the constancy of the tempel.ature is not of so much importance as that there should be no difference between the temperatures of the val.ious vessels in the bath .
was ensured by ring the bath very vigorously and continuously .
A thermometel placed in different positions in the batl ] showed no variation .
Lirnits of Accuracy Weighing the Vessels themselves .
One of the vessels was weighed four times , at intervals of a week or so , against the counterpoise , various operations been performed on it between while , with the following results:\mdash ; Weight of vessel before experiment , .
; after , 37 .
Anothel vessel , fitted with ) , was similarly veighed .
The , after mercury had been poured into and out of them , were cleaned with nitric acid , with alcohol , \amp ; c. :\mdash ; Weight of vessel before experiment , .
; after various washiugs and leaying in the bath for a week , The change shown in the last two experiments is probably due to the balance wanting cleaning .
From these numbers it will be seen that the maximum error is only New of Joint between and Sulphuric Acid Vessds .
The method adopted for measuring the relative lowering of the vapour pressure of the solution is that described in the 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. ' ( BERKELEY and HARTLEY , vol. 77 , , 1906 .
The solution is contained in two yessels which are weighed separately .
Dried air passes over the solution in these vessels in series ; it then passes over water in a weighed vessel , and finally over sulphuric acid in a fourth weighed vessel .
The assumption on which the method is based is that the air , on emerging * The values are ived from REGNAULT'S work , but he himself sesms somewhat dissatisfied with them .
Described ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 77 , , 1906 , pp. 156 , 162 .
IOTIC P OF AQUEOUS SOLUTTONS OF CALCIUIsI ) the 2nd vessel , is saturated with watel } ) to the pressure of solution , and on water vessel it is then saturated up to the vapoul pressure of the water .
Hence the ratio of the loss of weight of the vessels containing the solution to the sum of the loss of of solution and water vessel equals the ratio of the density of theval ) .
over the solution to that over water .
As pointed out in the mentioned above , it is evident that if the air on entering the train of vessels has been dried by sulphuric acid , and on emerging from the water vessel it is dried in a similar manner , the gain in weight of the 4th vessel ( the vessel containing the sulphuric acid ) should equal the snm of the losses of weight of the solution and water vessels .
In that paper it shown that this did not obtain\mdash ; there was a considerably greater loss of weight than there was gain by the 4th vessel .
This discrepancy can be shown to be partly caused by the saturated air giving up some of its moisture* to the } ) connecting the 3rd and 4th vessels .
As it was found to be impossible to weigh accurately the connecting tube , it was sought to bring the deposited moisture into the sulphuric acid by the internal diameter of this tube only mm. , so that the velocity of the air current would sweep the moisture forward .
Fig. 1 ( p. 184 ) shows the first form tried and is self-explanatory .
The use of the joint in this form , and other modifications of it which need not be further described , caused a considerable improvement , as shown by the following test experiments :\mdash ; Air was passed for 24 hours through two vessels in series , joined by the aboye-mentioned form of join .
The 1st yessel contained water and the 2nd sulphuric acid .
The temperature of the bath was constant at about C. The water lost The sulphuric acid gained The " " dippin\ldquo ; tube ( i.e. , the tube connecting the water and sulphuric acid vessels ) was found to have gained The difference between the losses and gain being , therefore , A repetition of the experiment with a slow air current gave a difference of There are three plausible explanations of the phenomenon : ( 1 ) That there are eddy currents ( possibly caused by inequalities of surface ) in the junction tube and the consequent changes of temperature bring about deposition ; in this connection it is that more moistnre is deposited on a tube .
( 2 ) That the surface of any glass vessel is always slightly hydrated , and if the be solul ) a solution of lower vapour pressure is formed , and , consequently , more moisture is deposited ; oviderlce in favour of this view is afforded by the well-known fact that less moisture is deposited on lead glass , which is stated to be less soluble than soda glass ; on the other hand , we find that we get the usual deposit on platinum- iridium tubes .
( 3 ) That the air , containing ions , is really supersaturated in as far as the ions may carry a watery envelope ; the latter is deposited on the walls of the tube where the ions come in with it .
We are at present engaged in experiments to test this hypothesis .
184 TH EARL OF ] , MR. .
G. J. HARTLEY AND I ) ] ? .
C. V. BURTON : Fig. 1 .
in Weight of 2nd Solution Vessel .
It was mentioned that the 2nd solution vessel always lost weight ( see p. 163 of vol. , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc and a possible explanation was suggested for this .
Further work with the method seemed to point to the absorption of moisture by the rubber connecting piece as a possible cause of the difficulty .
Fig. 2 ( p. 185 ) shows the form of joint deyised to get over this .
A is the exit tube of one yessel , and the entry tube of the next vessel .
is a rubber plug , cut on the lathe to the shape shown , and secured in place by the " " umbrella rings\ldquo ; D. The inverted -tube is similarly held in place by , and the space between the -tube and the exit and entry tubes A and is partially filled with mercury through the side tubes , which are themselves closed by rubber plugs .
The following tests were made : Two vessels , containing sulphuric acid , were placed in series and dry air passed for 48 hours , with the result that each yessel gained This experiment was repeated and air passed for 116 hours , at the end of which the 1st vessel had gained , and the second The experiment was again repeated , but the precaution was taken to dry the rubber plugs in an air oyen and keep them in a desiccator until use , as it might be that these plugs gave up moisture to the mercury which passed it on to the air OSMOTIC OF SOLUTIONS OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE .
185 current .
A run of 70 hours esulted in a gain of weight in the 1st vessel of .
The weight of the 2nd vessel was lost by an accident .
This experiment was again repeated with vessels in series , the only change bein the use of graphite as a lubricant for the rubber plugs .
A run of 70 hours gay a gain in 1st vessel , in in 3rd Another run of 70 hours resulted in a gain of or $ .
, , and respectively .
The rubber plugs were then given up and a plain mercury cup.joint used , as in fig. 3 ( p. 186 ) .
A and are the exit and entry tubes of the vessels , are the glass cups , fused to A and , to contain the mercury .
The inverted -tube is held in position by a clamp ( not shown ) supported from the oscillating platform .
The following tests of this joint were made:\mdash ; Three vessels , containing sulphuric acid , were placed in series , and air passed for 92 hours ; 1st vessel gained , 2nd , and 3rd It was thought that possibly the cups were not properly cleaned out before weighing , as it was found that the water of the bath had , during the experiment , become charged with rust the clamps .
A repetition of the on a 116-hour run ( using brass clamps ) gave gains of , and respectively .
In both these experiments the temperature of the bath was that of the laboratory .
VOL. CCIX .
\mdash ; A. 2 186 { LARL OF G. J. HARTLEY AND DR. C. .
BURTON : Fig. 3 .
Pure Air .
It was now noticed that although the air passing through the train of vessels was filtered , yet a certain amount of reaction had taken place in the 1st sulphuric acid vessel ( vessel of original paper ) , for the acid had turned brown during the course of the experiments .
This was completely remedied by drawin the air from outside the laboratory and by avoidin rubber tubing on the entry side .
This latter modification was obtained by means of a mercury cup placed outside the bath , but in the axis of oscillation of the platform .
An experiment with four sulphuric acid vessels in series made , with the air current running for 92 hours , the temperature of the bath being constant at about C. The 1st vessel gained , 2nd , 3rd , and 4th .
It was now thought that possibly these changes in weight were due to the absorption of mercury vapour by the sulphuric acid .
An attempt to test this was made by furnishing two out of the four vessels with gold sleeves suspended in the entry tubes .
A run of 92 hours at C. gave , and .
respectively , and the gold sleeves were not found to have altered in weight .
Hitherto the vessels , while on the balance , had not been closed ; in view of the fact that the errors now seemed to be considerably less than heretofore , it was thought better to have vessels made with their entry and exit tubes fitted with groundglass stoppers .
These vessels were then tested as before .
OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS OF CALCIUM FERROCyANIDE .
187 Average .
Run . .
gr. .
gr. hours at C. gay and , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , It will be noticed that the yains are reater for the higher temperatures than for the lower , and , further , the average gain shows a tendency to increase with increased of run .
Both facts on the assumption that the are due to mercury yapour , and it is that , from the approximately known vapour pressule of mercury and BoRNSTEIN'S tables ) and nating the alnount of air passed ( from previous work ) , the gains are found to be of the order of the number from these data .
Exact concordance cannot be expected , because in all experiments the inverted -tubes ( fig. 3 , p. 186 ) were down as close to the exit and entry tubes as was practicable .
It was therefore decided to test this question by using a form of joint which avoided the use of mercury .
For this purpose Messrs. Johnson and Matthey made inverted -tubes of platinumiridium ( see fig. 4 ) in such a way that they were not rigid and , consequently , allowed the able expansion and contraction , when the whole train of vessels was put into and taken out of the bath , to take place without risk of breaking the glass vessels or unduly straining the joints .
A and are the exit and inlet tubes , and the inverted platinum-iridium -tube is ground into these at and E. The internally conical parts and are for the ground-glass stoppers ( not shown ) used when weighing the vessels .
The upper part of the -tube is of thin tubing and is flexible .
This joint was tested , after some preliminary experiments , as follows:\mdash ; Two sulphuric acid vessels in series were joined by one -iridium joint and air passed for 63 hours at C. ( rubber lubricant in ground joint ) .
There was a gain in the 2nd vessel of .
Another run of 72 hours at C. gave a gain of .
Three vessels in series , run of 116 hours at C. , with a -air current , gave ]osses gr. This seems to show conclusively that some of the previons gains in weight were due to mercury vapour .
As the gain at C. ( see p. 187 ) was only .
for 116 hours ' run , it was decided to use this form of vessel mercury cups ) for work at C. , and to reserve the platinum-iridium -tubes for work at C. Test of Fall of Air Pressu ' In connection with the change of weight in the 2nd solution vessel it was thought possible that ] loss might be due to a difference of pressure in the air current , caused by " " -drawing\ldquo ; the air when passing over and through the platinum rolls .
The total difference in the of the air when entering and when leavin the train of vessels at a rate of 50 bubbles in 11 seconds was determined and was found to be about 1 mm. of water .
This number , even if the of pressure were posed to take place between the two solution vessels , is inadequate to account for the loss of weight observed .
Test to see whether the Oscillation of the Vessels causes any Change .
It was thought that the oscillation of the train of vessels might affect the results ; for J. J. THOMSON and others have pointed out that the surface layer of a solution is at a different concentration to that of the bulk of the liquid .
Now , in the method of operation adopted , the air is caused to pass over platinum rolls recently wetted by the solution , and from which the solution is slowly draining off It might be that a layer of solution thus left in contact with the air has a different concentration to that of the ordinary surface , and this effect was looked for by setting up a vapour-pressure experiment without oscillating the apparatus nor using the platinum rolls , but passing the air over at a slower rate .
No appreciable difference resulted ( see experiment marked on next page ) .
In the following table all vapour-pressure esults with solutions are given .
The 1st column gives the date of the beginning of the experiment ; the 2nd gives the weight concentration of the solution used , i.e. , the number of grammes of anhydrous salt to 100 grammes of water , and is calculated the analyses given in the table on p. 191 , column 3 ; the 3rd gives the mean cemperature of the bath ; the 4th gives the number of hours the air was passing ; the 5th gives the rate of bubbling , i.e. , the time taken for 50 bubbles to pass ; the 6th , 7th , 8th and 9th give the changes in weight in the several vessels .
It is to be noted that the algebraic sum of the Another disturbing factor is that the small radius of curvature of the surface of the solution clinging to the thin edges of the platinum rolls raises the vapour pressure , the experiment without the platinum rolls shows that the joint influence of this togebher with that indicated in the text is of no practical importance , OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE .
189 THE EARL OF BERKELEy , MR. E. G. J. HARTLEY AND DR. C. V. BURTON : TABLE .\mdash ; Mean Values .
numbers in the horizontal row included in columns 6 and 7 the 10th gives the total loss of weight of solution and water , ; the 11th gives the total gain , including the amount of moisture found in the " " dipping tube while the 12th gives the ratio of the vapour pressure of water to that of the solution and is obtained by dividing the total loss by the loss of weight of the solution , Remarks on the It will be noticed that the ratios of to for experiments with similar concentrations are in very close agreement .
It should be mentioned that at fir.st , in these experiments at C. , a difficulty was experienced in that the sulphuric acid in the first branch of the last vessel crystallized out during the run .
Now , the freezing-point of the hydrate is higher than C. , hence when the pure acid in the first branch takes up enough water to form a liquid of that concentration it solidifies , but the addition of more water will lower the freezing-point .
The difficulty , therefore , was overcome by filling this first branch , at the start , with an 85-per cent. solution of sulphuric acid , i. e. , a solution slightly weaker than OSMOTIC EQUILIBRIUM PRESSURES .
The equilibrium pressures were determined in exactly the same way as described in ' Phil. Trans. , ' , vol. 206 , pp. 481-507 .
It is only necessary , before giving a table of the results , to call attention to the fact that in all cases the " " solution-leak correction that is , the amount of calcium ferrocyanide which came through the membrane during the experiment , is practically negligible .
The amount coming through was determined by evaporating the water contents of the tubes together with 100 .
washing water passed through the tube after an interval of four days , down to a small bulk , and determining the calcium in it by the oxalate method .
It should be mentioned that the solutions act on the gunmetal of the osmotic apparatus ; this was prevented by coating the metal with a varnish .
In Table III .
, Column ( 1 ) gives the date of the experiment ; ( 2 ) the weight concentration ( i.e. , the number of grammes of anhydrous salt to 100 grammes of OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF AQUEOUS SSOLUTION OF CACALCI .
191 192 { EARL OF , MR. .
G. .I .
HARTLEY AND DR. C. .
BURTON : TABLE IIIA .
\mdash ; Mean Values .
concentration .
riumatmosp .
pressure .
water ) of the solution ; ( 3 ) the water content of the hydrated salt used in the make up\ldquo ; of the solution ; ( 4 ) the name of the tube used ; ( 5 ) the apparent turning-point , i.e. , the pressure at which no movement of the water gauge takes place ; ( 6 ) the movement of the water level , in millimetres , in 15 minutes , caused by the " " guard-ring leak\ldquo ; ; ( 7 ) the time the pressure was on the solution ; ( 8 ) the solution leak , i.e. , the total amount of come through the membrane during the time in Column ( 7 ) ; ( 9 ) the movement of the water level , in millimetres , in 15 minutes , caused by an increment of pressure of atmosphere ; ( 10 ) the apparent turningpoint [ Column ( 5 ) ] , corrected for " " guard-ring leak\ldquo ; ; as there is practically no correction for : ' solution leak the numbers in column ( 10 ) can be taken as the osmotic equilibrium pressure of the solution when there is a pressure of 1 atmosphere on the solyent .
COMPRESSIBILITY OF THE SOLUTIONS .
An attempt was made , in view of other work with more compressible solutions , to design the apparatus so that accurate results might be obtained .
The piezometer is repl.esented by fig. 5 .
The gunmetal vessel A is filled with water and connected by and to a Schaffer and Budenberg dead-weight pressure apparatus .
The " " Robax\ldquo ; Jena glass tube external and 12 mm. internal diameter , is made pressure-tight with the gunmetal piece by means of a dermatine ring which is compressed between a shoulder and a metal sleeve actuated by a nut , J. The lower end of the tube is closed pressure-tight in a similar manner and the tube is prevented from slipping out by four distance stays such as G. The compressibility vessel , which is filled with the solution to be examined , is of No. Jena glass .
This glass was selected as its compressibility has been carefully determined by SCHOTT and STRAUBEL .
The bulb is of about 15 .cm .
capacity and the stem , open at the lower end , is graduated into millimetres ( 1 mm. of the bore has a capacity of .cm The whole tube , bulb , and stem were carefully calibrated in the usual * The Robax tubes were found to withstand pressure fairly well , but after considerable use they burst at a lower pressure than that originally reached ; hence , after using a tube for four or five observations ; atmospheres , it must be replaced by a new one .
and references in LANDOLT and BoRNSTEIN'S tables , 3rd ed. OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE .
193 way by means of mercury .
The stem was made 40 cm .
long , and its bore such that an appreciable change in reading could be observed even when caused by only a change of pressure of a few atmospheres .
The bottom of the Robax tube is filled for some few centimetres with mercury and matters are so arranged that the mercury rises in the stem of the compressibility tube a centimetre or two above the level of the mercury outside when the whole apparatus has been to a coIlstant temperature at atmospheric pressure .
Fig. ) .
Fig. 6 .
General Method of The compressibility bube is filled as shown in fig. 6 , which represents the method adopted to fill with air-free liquid .
The compressibility tube A is joined at its lower end to a bulb , , containing the liquid , and at its upper end to the -tube containing pumice moistened with sulphuric acid ; this -tube is weighed before and after the experiment .
The -tube is connected at to a Fleuss exhaust pump by flexible pressure tubing ; the -piece Esel.ves to connect it to the other end of the bulb containing the solution through the three-way tap F. By closing tap turning so as to have through communication , and opening tap , the liquid in can be caused to boil .
Care , howeyer , must be taken only to create a vacuum above sufFicient to get rid of the air ( shown by air bubbles coming off ) , otherwise an unnecessary increase of concentration of the solution in will take place .
When VOL. CCIX.\mdash ; A. 2 194 THE EARL OF BERKELEy , .
J. AND DR. C. .
BURTON : it is judged that practically all dissolved air has been remoyed , tap is closed and opened ; the aim is to sweep out any air adhering to the sides of A by a current of moisture .
Tap is then closed , and the whole apparatus tilted to the left , so that the liquid in closes the left-hand orifice ; the tap is then opened and is cautiously so as to admit air above the solution .
In this manner the compressibility tube is filled up to the tap any air bubbles being apparent , as a rule .
The key of tap must also be filled , otherwise deformation may take place when the vessel is placed under compression .
The compl.essibility tube is then taken down and placed in the piezometer .
Now , if the bulb has been filled with a known volume of solution whose density and concentration are known , and the change in weight is known , then the concentration of the solution filling the compressibility tube is known .
All the experiments on compressibility here given were those obtained at C. For this temperature , after the introduction of the compressibility tube , the whole apparatus was filled with ice-cold water and the upper part , down to 8 or 4 cm .
below the coupling of fig. 5 , was surrounded by ice .
A period of some four or five hours , the ice bein rammed down at intervals , was allowed to elapse so that a constant temperature approximating to C. might be attained .
The constancy of the temperature was judged by readings of the mercury level in the compressibility tube , gs being taken by meaIJS of a telescope .
A pressure of some 20 atmospheres was then gradually put on the water in the apparatus and when the level of the mercury in the compressibility tube was constant it , noted .
Anothel gradual increase of pressure of the same amount was then put on and the level , and so on till the maximum pressure of about 100 atmosphel.es was attained , after the everse process was carried out .
The intention had been to reach a pressure of 150 atmospheres , but , although at times the " " Robax\ldquo ; tubiug sto , od this , one or two serious breakages ( causin in one case the fracture of the compressibility tube ) made it desirable to limit the experiment to 100 atmospheres .
Sources of Error .
There seem to be two main sources of error:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Variation of temperature during the experiment .
There are two causes for a change of temperature .
One is that the ice in melting round the apparatus causes a small quantity of warm air to come into contact with the gunmetal casting .
This was obviated by ramming the ice down at intervals of about 15 minutes .
The second cause of a change of temperature is unavoidable and is due to the development of heat by the compression of the liquid itself This thermodynamic change of temperature was found to disappear in about 10 minutes .
In later work the piezometer was altered so that a mercury thermometer could be placed close to the compressibility tube .
OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS CIUM FRROCYANIDE .
195 ( 2 ) A possible source of error is the presence of lubricant in the tap at the top of the compressibility tube and also Rlly unol ) served air bubbles in the solution .
It was considered that these errors ere overcome ) entlle same eating of the mercury level in the compressibility tube obtained for the same pressure reading , whether when increasing the pressure or when decl'easing it .
On the other hand , it was noticed on easing t ) ressul'e somewhat quickly the rapid rise of the mercury in the stem of the tube caused it to enclose small globules of liquid which increase of pressure did not seem to move , hence the apparent constancy of the in volume for give change in may be no indication that the true change in volume has been obtained .
It was found , howevel , that the enclosed globules of liquid were avoided when the rate of change of pressure was slow .
The following is from the laboratory book and gives the details of one of the experiments with calcium ferrocyanide solution .
The solution was made up by weight in the 400 .
flask and its density determined as on p. 180 .
Weight of Date .
Time .
Rem -tube .
March 18 IsIade up solution .
March 19 70 584 .
Used No. II .
sibility tube .
9.0 .
Filled bulb and ccnnected up as before ( i.a. , as in fig. 6 ) .
10.45 Started pumping .
11.5 Opened bulb to pump for 5 seconds .
11 .
15 , , 11 .
35 Closed taps and ned compressibility tube to pump .
Closed compressibility tube and filled .
12.40 .
70 .
Withdrew compressibility tube and placed its bulb in ice for 2 minutes while lower end dipped in solution and them placed in apparatus which was immediately filled with icecold water and covered with ice .
During the afternoon the ice was rammed down at intervals of one hour , and at intervals of a quarter of an ho.ur between 4 and 5 Pressure Readiug Difi.erence Difference Date .
Time .
in of of of Eemarks .
tttmospheres .
stem .
pressure .
reading .
mm. March 19 5.5 1 5.9 214 1022 Rammed down ice .
5.14 5.19 5.22 41 8 l404 Rammed down ice .
5.27 5.32 5.34 Rammed down ice .
5.39 5.45 Pressure eating Date .
Time .
in of atmospheres .
stem .
bIarcb 19 5.46 82 6 5 .
5.56 5.59 6.4 6.9 6.10 6.15 6.20 6.22 6.27 6.32 6.33 6.38 6.43 141.15 6.44 103.4 6.49 6.54 6.58 1 7.3 1 7.8 1 Difference Difference of of Remarks .
pressure .
reading .
mm. Rammed down ice .
Rammed down ice .
Rammed down ice .
Rammed down ice .
dovwn ice .
Rammed down icc .
The weight concentration of the solution before filling the compressibility tube was .
of anhydrous salt to 100 .
of Aq and its density 1 2432 at C. 50 .cm .
of this solution were pipetted into the bulb and , during filling , gave up to the -tube a weight of .
of water , from which it is deduced that the concentration of the filling the compressibility tube was 38 834 Reduction of Observations of npressibilities .
( 1 ) of Compression of Compressibility Tube.\mdash ; The obseryed change in volume of the liquid filling the compressibility tube is the algebraic sum of two terms\mdash ; the actual change of the liquid less that due to the lass itself As stated , the compressibility tube was made of Jena glass and the compressibility of this glass has been worked out by STRAUBEL* and others ( see LANDOLT and BoRNSTEIN'S tables , ed. , for to be 00000228 per atmosphere at inary laboratory temperature .
There seems to be good reason for believing that AMAGAT'S value for the compression of mercury is accurate ( see JAMIN , ' Course de Physique so that by using this value and observing the apparent change in volume of the compressibility tube when filled with mercury a check on the above coefficient of the glass can be obtained .
An experiment in which the compressibility tube was exhausted by means of a Gaede pump and then filled by recently redistilled mercury gave as its apparent coefficient of compression in the compressibility tube between 1 and 101 *The value in and BoRNSTEIN'S tables seems to have been derived from torsion and bending experiments .
OSMOTIC PRESSURFS OF AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS OF CALCIUM FERROCyANIDE .
197 atmospheres at C. AMAGAT'S value for the true coefficient is ; hence that of the glass is at C. The agreement between this result and STRAUBEL'S value seems to prove that no serious experimental error has been incul.red .
( 2 ) to be Applied to the Volume .\mdash ; The method used is based on the assumption that the pressure inside and outside the mpressibility tube is the same , but it must be remembered that this can only be the case at the beginning of the experiment ( i.e. , when the level of the mercury is the same inside and outside of the compressibility tube ) , for when the mercury has been caused to rise in the stem , there is an excess of pressure on the outside of the compressibility tube due to the amount of the rise of the mercury above the leve ] outside .
The change in the compressibility tube due to this was determined by special experiments , and a correction has been applied to both the volume and the pressure .
The latter correction , in view of the nature of the results required in this paper , is of no importance .
Results .
The following tables give the corrected results obtain EXPERIMENTS the Compressibility of Water at C. The 1st column gives the range of pressure in atmospheres ; the 2nd column gives the coefficient of compression per atmosphere in that range ; the 3rd column gives AMAGAT'S results for the same range .
ater nuite fater ( hour b\ldquo ; The compressibility of the calcium ferrocyanide solution- is only required for the purpose of calculating the osmotic equilibrium pressure from vapour-pressure 1neasure- ments , and as the latter were only made on solutions whose weight concentration varied from 50 to 31 .
of anhydrous salt per 100 .
of Aq , the compressibility measurements recorded here were restricted to this range .
The following table gives the results obtained for the solutions at C. Column 1 gives the weight concentration in grammes of anhydrous salt per 100 grammes of water of the solution ; column 2 gives the range of pressure ; column 3 gives the corresponding coefficient atmosphere : \mdash ; \ldquo ; Press.ange.fficient p Tbese two experiments were of the nature of preliminary experiments ; the data for calculating the density of the solution filling the compressibility tube were not obtained , nor was great care taken to avoid concentrating the solutions while ' ' boiling\ldquo ; off the dissolved air .
TABLE IV .
This experiment was not finished owing to breakage .
This experiment was made on a soIution which was not freed from air at all , and , on plotting the several results , it appears to come on the curve , from which it would seem that dissolved air has no appreciable infiuence on the coefficient .
OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE .
199 MODIFICATION 0F PORTER'S EQUATION .
The experiments on yapour pressures and on the equilibrium pressure were done in air , but Prof. PORTER'S equation is derived from the consideration of somewhat ideal conditions approximating to that of a yacuum , and it is therefore necessary to obtain an expression suitable to the conditions of the actual experiments .
This may be derived in the following manner:\mdash ; Assume that the pistons in the ideal apparatus are permeable to air but not to the liquids or their yapour , then no work can be done on or by the atmosphere .
Using the notation on p. 177 with the additional mbols pressure of the atmosphere ; vapour pressure of the solvent in air when it is under a total pressure of ; vapour pressure of the solution in air when it is under a total pressure of ; and performing the thermo-dynamic cycle , as in Prof PORTER'S paper , it is easily seen that the work done in the various operations 1st operation . .
2nd operation .
3rd operation .
) .
4th operation . .
Summing up , equating to zero , and integrating by parts , we get* ( 2 ) .
This equation is , in appearance , the same as Prof PORTER'S , with the limits slightly altered ; yet if we carefully consider what assumptions underlie the various operations , it will appear that the quantities involved are different .
* Since this was written , Prof. PORTER has published the second part of his paper " " On the Osmotic Pressure of Compressible SoIutions of any Degree of Concentration\ldquo ; Proc. ; he points out , in a private communication , that equation ( 2 ) may be directly obtained , as in Section 5 of that paper , by estimating ( throughout the cycle ) the changes in , which must vanisl ) also because this integral is the same as 200 EARL OF BERKELFY , MR. E. G. J. HARTLEy AND DR. C. V. BURTON : We have tacitly assumed that the actual semi-permeable membrane is impermeable to the air dissolved in both solution and solvent ; so that the of the equation is the actual change in volume under the conditions of the experiment .
This element will be given by the density measurements in conjunction with the measurements of the compressibility of the solutions and of water , which in all cases contain dissolved air .
The term is similarly obtained ; although this term , as will be seen later on , is of no importance in this work , it may be so when dealing with liquids that are more volatile than water ; then the compressibility of air-containing solvents will have to be obtained with considerable accuracy .
It should be noted that the of the limit represents the actual osmotic equilibrium pressure due both to the dissolved salt and the dissolved air in the solution measured against the back osmotic pressure of the air dissolved in the otherwise pure solvent .
On the other hand , the term is , in one , different from the actual conditions ; it is vapour pressure in air when both solution and solvent are under the sum of the pressures of the atmosphere and their own vapour pressures , while the actual experiments are made when the two liquids are under the pressure of the atmosphere alone .
It is thought that this slight difference may be neglected .
of the Integrals .
( 1 ) .\mdash ; It will be seen on p. 198 ( Table Iy .
) that the coefficient of compression of any one solution varies but little at different pressures ; it was , therefore , thought that its mean value would be accurate enough for the purpose in view , and the following table gives the resulting volumes of the seyeral solutions when under compression .
Columns ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are a repetition of those on p. 181 ( Table ) ; ( 3 ) gives the number of grammes of water to one gram-molecular weight of anhydrous salt ; ( 4 ) gives the obseryed equilibrium pressure , taken from a graph when necessary ; ( 5 ) gives the mean coefficient of compression per atmosphere , also taken from a graph when necessary ; ( 6 ) to ( 12 ) give the volumes of the respective solutions which contain one gram-molecule of salt when under the pressure given at the head of the respective columns .
The numbers in the horizontal lin between the brackets have not been used in the reduction\mdash ; it was considered that the changes in volume were too small to give reliable results .
On plotting the volumes in any one of the columns ( 6 ) to ( 12 ) against the figures in column ( 3 ) , it will be seen that the resulting curve is practically a straight line , hence we may take the change in volume ( at any given pressure ) caused by a change in concentration due to the loss of one gramme of water as constant , and this volume ehange will be given by the ratio of the difference in volume divided by the OS IOTIC PRFSSURES OF AQUAOUS SOLUTIONS OF CALCIU FERROCYANIDE 201 VOL. CCIX.\mdash ; A. I 202 THE EARL OF BERKELEy , MR. E. G. J. HARTLEY AND DR. C. .
BURTON : corresponding difference in columnl ( 3 ) .
This ratio is practically the of the term .
, it will be seen that the for any given solution varies but slightly with the pressure .
The maximum differeJlce is only per cent. It was , therefore , considered that for the purpose of ating the integral , sufficient accuracy would be attained if we put , where the mean value of between the limits is , obtained in the manner just indicated .
These mean values are given in the following Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
0 .
956 0 .
959 Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
Weight concentration .
eight concentration .
Weight eight concentration .
concentration .
Weight eight concentration .
concentration .
concentration .
In Prof PORTER'S ideal apparatus , it will be remembered that there is supposed to be a pressure on the pure solyent piston .
In our actual experiments this vanishes ; hence , so that the term under discussion becomes ( 2 ) The .\mdash ; As the specific volume of water at C. does not differ appreciably from unity , even over a pressure range of one atmosphere , this term , that , reduces to , which is a negligibly small quantity .
( 3 ) The term .\mdash ; There seem to be no data for the exact evaluation of this integral , but if we assume that both BOYLE'S law and the partial-pressure law apply to the vapour pressure of water in air , we may put where vapour density ofwater vapour in air when the water is under the pressure observed loss of weight of the solution and water vessels , observed loss of weight of the solution alone .
The original equation thus reduces to . .
* The solution of weight concentration 49 966 is taken because it is the solution for which we have the lowering of vnpour pressure .
See p. 190 , ) ] OSMOTIC PRESSURES OF AQUEOUS SOLUTIONS OF CALCIUM FERROCYANIDE .
203 On p. 341 of CASTLE ' ' Phys. ) .
Tables , ' the value of derived from RhGNAULT'S measurements is given , together with the value of , which he has calculated from REGNAULT'S on the assumption that the law Usin these two values , the results tabulated are obtained .
By a similar process of evaluation of the integrais in Prof PORTER'S equation [ equation ( 1 ) on p. 177 ] it is easily seen that it reduces to where is the vacuum vapour pressure of water and its vacuum vapour density , and taking BROCH'S recalculation of work on these two quantities in a vacuum , and assuming that they are applicable to the experiments , we obtain the results given below under the head of\ldquo ; unmodified\ldquo ; equation .
TABLE VI .
concen .
Observed e riumatmosp .
The concordance of these llumbers seems to indicate a satisfactory agreement between experiment and thermodynamic theory .
*Private commumcation .
On turning to Table , p. 191 , it will be seen that a solution of weight concentration 50 184 gave au equilibrium pressure of 131 04 atmospheres , while one of 49 913 gave 131 38 atmospheres .
One of these two observations must evidently be in error .
As the value for equilibrium pressure of the strongest solution given in the table is derived from the of this pressure against conce1ttratio1l , using the mean of these two observations as the ultimate point , it may be that the value given atmosphere too low .

