]\gt ; perpendicular to the lines of magnetic force ; ( iii .
) when the plane of incidence is agnetizing current ieverse.ogous , hose of the fourth experiment aeflection , inasmuch afrom Lproof oisagreement iisturbing effect o parallel to the lines of magnetic force , and the light polarized in the plane of incidence , the magnetic term increases from incidence to a maxnnum value , and then diminishes to normal incidence .
The points of disagreement are that in all cases the intensity is unchanged when physical considerations .
A term in the kinetic energy which involves a volume integral , can usually be transformed in a variety of ways by integration by parts , into another volume integral and a surface integral ; and although it is immaterial , so far as equations of motion are concerned , which volume integral we use , the boundary conditions will depend upon the surface integral .
Accordingly , if we omitted a surface integral term from the expression for the kinetic energy and were to apply the principle of least action , it is evident that we should obtain the correct equations of motion , but the boundary conditions would be erroneous .
( 15 ) , From these equations we deduce corresponding tncident wdifferent Thesuffixes 1refer tefracted waves , ncident waves adenote tcorresponding tpper aowerI aorne iirections oefracted w : then the displacements in one of the refracted waves wiJl be where isplacements ither wwill bhanging tigns o ' obtained bhanging tuffix fromif rngles oefraction , which shows that the reflec.ted light is elliptically polarized .
intensity feflected light after iassed through tyser iherefore independe.irection osection oyser coincide whencurrent , ishes wurrent iccordance wxperiment .
' X. On the Refraction of at the Surfix ce of ebtzed Medium .
A. B. BASSET , M.A. , F.R. Received Deoember 17 , 1890 , \mdash ; Read January 8 , 1891 .
1 .
THE object of this investigation is to endeayour to ascerbain how far the magnetic theory of light , as at present developed , is c , apable of giving a theoretical explanation of Dr. KERR'S experiments on the effect of magnetism on light .
In the first series of experiments*polarized night was reflected the polished pole of an electromagnet , and it was found that when the circuit was closed , so the reflecting ce beoame magnetized ) to itself , the reflected light exhibited certain peculiarities , which disappeared when the circuit was broken .
In the second series of experiments the reflector was a polished plate of soft iron laid upon the poles of a horse-shoe electromagnet , so that the direction of tion was parallel , or approximately so , to the reflecting surface ; and it was found that the effect of the current was analogous to , though by no means identical with , the effect produced in the first series of experiments .
It was found that whet ] the incidence was normal , or when the plane of incidence was perpendicular to the direction of magnetization , no effect was produced .
In both series of experiments it was found that the effects produced by magnetization materially varied with the angle of incidence .
It was also found that effects were in most cases reversed , when the direction of the magnelizing culrent was reversed ; that is to say , if the intensity of reflected light was strengthened by a right-handed current , it weakened by a left-handed one .
Since the effects produced by the current were in most ases r when the direction of the current was reversed , it follows that the first power of the magnetic force must enter into the expression for the intensity of the reflected light .
It will be noticed that in all these experiments a tallic reflector was employed , and consequently the results were complicated .
by the influence of meballic reflection .
It therefore seems hopeless to attempt to construct a theory which shall furnish complete explanation of these phenomena , until a perfectly satisfactory electromagnetic theory of metallic reflection has beeIl obtained , and , so far as 1 am awar * ' Pbil .
Mag May , , March , 1878 .
perpendicular to the lines of magnetic force ; ( iii .
) when the plane of incidence is agnetizing current ieverse.ogous , hose of the fourth experiment aeflection , inasmuch afrom Lproof oisagreement iisturbing effect o parallel to the lines of magnetic force , and the light polarized in the plane of incidence , the magnetic term increases from incidence to a maxnnum value , and then diminishes to normal incidence .
The points of disagreement are that in all cases the intensity is unchanged when physical considerations .
A term in the kinetic energy which involves a volume integral , can usually be transformed in a variety of ways by integration by parts , into another volume integral and a surface integral ; and although it is immaterial , so far as equations of motion are concerned , which volume integral we use , the boundary conditions will depend upon the surface integral .
Accordingly , if we omitted a surface integral term from the expression for the kinetic energy and were to apply the principle of least action , it is evident that we should obtain the correct equations of motion , but the boundary conditions would be erroneous .
( 15 ) , From these equations we deduce corresponding tncident wdifferent Thesuffixes 1refer tefracted waves , ncident waves adenote tcorresponding tpper aowerI aorne iirections oefracted w : then the displacements in one of the refracted waves wiJl be where isplacements ither wwill bhanging tigns o ' obtained bhanging tuffix fromif rngles oefraction , This circumstance may , at first sight , appear somewhat strange , and may perhaps be Accordingly becomes on substitution from and ( 17D ) which shows that the reflec.ted light is elliptically polarized .
intensity feflected light after iassed through tyser iherefore independe.irection osection oyser coincide whencurrent , ishes wurrent iccordance wxperiment .
'

