Dr. J. B. Haycraft .
Luminosity and Photometry .
49 BH 12 .
In old brick-pit 90 yards S.S.W. of t-lie Charlton road and close to path to Maydencroft Farm .
Level ( of old surface ) 271 feet .
Palaeolithic .
f Yellow brickearth with small stones ( 9 feet Feet .
already L removed ) * , . . .
Ancient f Yellow and white marl and silt ( compare BH 8). .
2 alluvium .
L Yellow brickearth and small chalk pebbles i r Chalky boulder clay \#171 ; .
Glacial .
\lt ; Loamy chalky gravel L Gravelly sand .
3(5 BH 13 .
Old gravel pit in Jeeves ' Yard , near Black Horse Lane .
Level ( of old surface ) 242 feet .
Feet .
Glacial / ^oarse grovel , becoming finer below .
( Bug ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 18 L Finer gravel , watery below .
( Bored ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... lOj28i BH 14 and trial-pit ( see p. 44 ) .
" Luminosity and Photometry .
" By John Berry Haycraft , M.D. , University College , Cardiff .
Communicated by Professor Schafer , F.R.S. Received February 9 , \#151 ; Read March 4 , 1897 .
The luminosity of the spectrum was determined by what may be termed the method of the " minimal effective stimulus .
" Through the partition separating two dark rooms from each other a hole was drilled 1 mm. across ; this was covered with a piece of ground glass .
From a diffraction grating in room A spectral rays of ascertainable wave-length were cast upon the ground glass .
The observer in room B was placed upon a graduated railway , and moved towards or from the spot of light until he could just see it , and no more .
The distances at which various parts of the spectrum were just seen were thus determined , and their relative potencies calculated by the law of inverse squares .
Under the above conditions\#151 ; the eye being in the condition of dark adaptation\#151 ; the green near E is the most potent , and the violet half of the spectrum is more potent than the red .
These results agree with those obtained by Captain Abney who also worked with the dark adapted eye .
The experiment was then repeated , the room B being whitewashed , and lit with gas light , and the eye of the observer , therefore , in the condition of light adaptation .
Under these conditions the yellow is the most potent , and the red half of the spectrum more potent than the violet .
In the following experiment the eye was in the condition of 50 Dr. J. B. Haycraft .
Luminosity and .
light adaptation for strong stimuli , and passed gradually into the condition of dark adaptation as the stimuli became feebler .
Tiny discs of coloured paper were pasted on a black background , and the distance determined at which these spots could just be seen .
The room in which both the discs and the observer were placed was illuminated by a graduated gas burner reading from twenty candles downwards .
For low luminosities when the quality of the flame changes , the burner was raised towards the ceiling to measurable distances .
Order of potency of discs ; distance at which they were seen .
At high illuminations ... ... .
Yellow , red , green , blue .
low " ... . .
Yellow , green , red , blue .
very low illuminations ... Green , yellow , blue , red .
The potency of different portions of the spectrum was also determined by the method of flicker photometry .
A semi-disc , rotated by an electromotor between the source of light and the slit of the spectroscope , repeatedly cut off the light entering the instrument .
The rate of rotation of the semi-disc was varied by the use of a graduated resistance , and the rate could be accurately determined .
At a low speed of rotation the spectrum flickered , except at its ends ; the position of these two ends was determined .
On increasing the speed of rotation , the flickering centre was narrowed , and another two points were obtained .
From a number of such observations a curve , giving the potency of the spectrum to produce flickering , was constructed .
With a dim spectrum the green , near E , is the most potent , and the violet half of the spectrum is more potent than the red .
On increasing the luminosity of the spectrum , the apex of the curve shifts from the green into the yellow , and the red half becomes more potent than the violet .
Flicker curves from coloured papers observed at different luminosities were also obtained .
The graduated gas-burner was here utilised , and throughout these experiments , gas-light was used as the source of light .
The curves obtained by flicker photometry , and those obtained by the method of the minimal effective stimulus , strikingly resemble each other .
The nature of the flicker effect is discussed , and the curves obtained by the above methods are given in a paper shortly to appear in the ' Journal of Physiology .
'

