]\gt ; .
Berthelot on Chemical Combination .
445 The third part of the paper is descriptive of an instrument for measuring electrical resistance without the aid of a magnetic needle or of resistance scales .
It eonsisCs of two voltameter tubes fixed upon graduated scales , which are so connected that the current of a battery is divided between them , lvith one branch including a known ttld permanent resistance , and the other the unknown resistance to be measured .
The resistance and pola , and battery to both circuits , these nnstable elements are elimioated by balancing them from the circulation ; ftnd an expression is found for the unknown resistance X in terms of the known resistances and of the voItameter , ) the conuectiug wires , and of the volumcs and of gases evolved in au arbitrary space time within the tubes , .
:\mdash ; . . . . .
( 1 ) Changes of atmospheric pressure affect both sides equadly , and do not therefore influence the results ; but a at the atmospheric pressure is obtained at both sides by liCtle supply-rescrvoir with diluto acid to the level indicated in the tube .
The upper ends of he- voltameter tubes itre closed by small levers provided cushions of Indin-rnbber ; but after each observation theselevers are raised , and the supply-rescrvoil.s moved so as to cause the escapc of the gascs until theliquidwithin the tubes is up to tho zero-line of the scale , when the instrument is eady for another observation .
A series of mea- ements are given of resistances from 1 to 10,000 units , showing that the results within one-half per cent. with the independent measurements obtained of the same resistances by the Wheatstone method .
The advantages claimed for the proposed instrument are , that it is not influenced by magnetic disturbances or the ship 's motion if used at sea , that it can be used by persons not with ical t , and it is of simple construction .
The ions I. ' On the of ressure and Voluntc } ) roduced by Combination By by Dr. .
Rcceived pril .
, 1871 .
1 .
singular question arisen in the study of the gascous combinations , .
can the pressure be diminisl ) in of tion , at moment it is accomplished , at constant , without loss of heat , so that tho phenomenon of plosion c the cxcess of cric 1essure u the inner ] ) lessure of the systcm , instead of coming from the verse cxccss of the inner prcssurc ?
The discussion of this question , howevcr special it appears at first sight , leads to general notions concerning chemical combination .
446 M. Bcrthclot on the of and Volume 2 .
The prcssure depends upon the temperature evolved , ftlld upon the state of condensation of the products .
Let us determine this quantity .
Let be the temperature produced by the reaction , this being effected at a constant volume , admitting that the whole of the disengaged leat employed in wnrming the products .
Let be the the volumes of the gaseous bodies in the system at and At the temperature , the final system contains in general certain gaseous bodies .
Let be the volume of these bodies , supposed to be brought , without cha1lging their state , to and The tion expresses the condensation produced by the reac(ion .
When certain bodies , contained in the initial system at , or in the ] system at , are in the solid or the liquid state , you can generally neglcct their volume in comparison with that of the gas , when the pressures are not too considerable .
Let us calculate the pressure during the reaction which takes place at a constant volume at the temperature , the initial temperature and pressure being and H. In Marriotte 's Gay-Lussac 's laws , the pressure }will become ; it will be greater than the initial pressurc if , less if or equal if .
Let us observe that being the quantity of heat oduced in the reaction , and being the mean specific heat of the products between and Let os develope this solution .
3 .
The pressure augments when the condensation is null , for instance orine n hydrogen , ; and when there is dilatation ( combustion of acetylene by ) gen ) , being positive in a direct and rapid reaction between bodies .
4 .
On the contt.ary , the pressure diminishes if is very great\mdash ; that is , in the case of a system containing gaseous bodies tr nsformed entirel ?
f into products which are in the solid or liquid state at the temperature deve loped lie the reaction .
This case is more rare than one would think at first sight , because very few compounds subsist wholly at the high temperaturc that would be developed by the integral union of their gnseous components .
Generally a portion of these remain free at the moment of the reactiort ; but in the present state of our knowledge it is impossible to estimate the corresponding to effects so complex .
It is to consider that the present must not be confounded with the cnse in which the products formed in the gaseous state at the erature of the reaction are liquefied .
solidified uuder the produced Chcmical Combination .
44,7 of a subsequent cooling ; for instance , the formation of water from its elcments , or of chlorhydrate of ammonia from oric acid and ammonia , equally a diminution in the final pressure .
5 .
In theory the most intercsting case is that in lvhich the initial and fin systems are lvhoily constituted of gaseous bodies , whose volume ( calculated at and ) is more condensed in the final than in the inilial system .
But this condensation is vays comprised vithiu very narrow limits , such as ( formation of arseoious acid by the elements ) , , \amp ; c. ; so the condiion , or ( K-1 ) that determines a diminution of pressure , should be realized ouly in exceptional cases and when the heat olved by an intcgral reaction is very little .
One can ascertain it in the calculation by me lns of the specific heats at constant rolume ( deduced ordinary coefficient from the specific heats at ) ressure nault has determined for many bodies ) .
One can also make the cnlculation a more general manner , in admitting with Clausius that the spec.ific heats rolume have an value for the atomic weights of elements , that this value is equal to 2 , 4 , the number found for , and that it does uot change from the of ination .
the quautity of heat roduced in a reaction between gaseous bodies lculated for atomic cights , and the number of atoms iu the reaction , the pressure will diminish only if .
It is easy to sce that condition is not fulfilled in the combinations best known .
Calculating , either by means of this formula or by means of the preceding , I not succeeded in discovering any example of diminution of prcssure the numerous reactions I have ex mined in this present research .
ides , it is sufficicnt to make the lcul tion for the reaction supposed , the conclusion being the for the reaction supposed incomplete , that is to say in the cnse of tion , as it would be easy to prove .
6 .
Without further ending this discussion , I that a new general proposition relative to chcmical combinntion be deduced from it .
It is known that direct ction nhich can be accomplished in a very short time betwcen gaseous bodics formtion of gas compounds , produces a discngagement of hcat : is true for all re ctious erolved by chemical forces alone , acting without help of any work done by exterior forces* .
The ] ) osition is the The hcat produced in a reaction of sorf , supposing it to be applied This proposition is contained in more general one , hich I givcn ' Annalcs de Chimie et Physique , seric , .
xviii .
44@ The Astronomer Royal on the [ Apr. 2 exclusively and without any loss to varm the products , is such that an augmentation of pressure always takes place at a constant volume , what is the same thing , an augmentation of volume at a constant pressure .
This proposition results not from any a priori deduction , but is verilied by the whole of facts known to this day .
7 .
Onc may ask if the change of volume , in which the gases keep the whole heat produced by their mutual actions , is regulated by a simple law , to those that have been observed when the gaseous combinations are brought to the temperature nevertheless it does not appear to be so .
Let us compare the formation of the different hydracids by means of their gaseous elements , which gives no change of volume when the gas is reduced at and The formation of chlorhydric Cl , produces 23,900 ; the formation of omhydric gas , H Br , produces 13,400 calories ; the formation of iodhydric gas , HI , produces 800 calories .
The specific of these gases nearly the same under the same volume , it is clear that the quantities of hcat aforesaid cannot oduce an augmentation of volumes identical or proportional with simple numbers .
II .
Rcmarks on the Determination of a Ship 's Place at Sea In a Letter to .
STOKES .
By G. B. AIRY , LL. D , \amp ; c. , nomer lloyal .
Royal Observatory , Greenwich , 1871 , Apri15 .
MY DEAR SIR , \mdash ; In the last published Number of Proceedings of the Royal Society* , there are remarks by Sir William Thomson on the proposed method for determining the locus of a ship 's place at sea , by making one observation of the sun 's ( or other body 's ) altitude , and fouuding , on this , computations of longitude with two umptions oflatitude ; and there are suggestions , with a specimen of tables , for solving the spherical triangles which occur in all similar nautical observations , on the principle of drnwing a perpendicular arc of great circle from one angle of spherical triangle upon the opposite side .
In regard to this principle and the tables which may be used with it , I may call attention to the employment of a similar method by MajorGeneral kShortrede , in his titude and Declination Tables , ' pp. 148 180 .
In p. 150 , line 11 from the bottom , it will be seen that the " " columll\ldquo ; gives the trial-value of the perpendicular arc by which the t rihtgled triangles are computed .
This is not the same ( among the various elements may be chosen ) as Sir Villiam Thomson 's ; but it is so closely rethat in some instances the tabular numbers are identically the same as Sir W. Thomson 's , though in a different order .
General Shortrede 's Vol. .
p.

