Philos ~ Transact ~ No. 245 VIII .
An Account of a Gall-Bee , and the DeathWatch .
By Mr. Benj~ Allen .
The Gall-Bee .
IN those Galls which came to me by the Name of Aleppo-Galls , which the Insects had not eat their Way out of , I found one sort of Bee , resembling the small sort of our wild Bees which Earth ; they have long Wings , a deep Belly , and on the Back near the Comissure to the Body , it is of a greenish black , the rest redish , near a Cinnamon Colour , the Belly thick and deep .
These Galls were very gummy , and the Cavity round them was so extremely gummy , that not the least room or entrance of it appeared , though the Bee was beginning to make its way out .
Some of the Galls had a Stem to them , and may give some Light to the reason of Life , that the Atmospherical Air is not necessary to the Essence , before the Organs of the Body are employed ; but that that is maintained by a subtiller Air , that pervades more minute Pores , as it is conveyed to Fish through the Water , &amp;c. Vide Figure 1 .
But this is not the only Insect that I have found in Galls , for the greyer sort , not so rich in Gum : I have found a small Ichneumon of a bright Green .
An Account of the Scarabaeus Galeatus Pulsator , or the Death-Watch ; taken August .
1695 .
by Mr. Benjamin Allen .
THe Second Animal I observed ( Vid. Fig. 2 , 3 , 4 .
) is a Death-Watch ; I have taken some before this , it is that which makes a Noise resembling exactly that of a Watch ; it is faithfully the very same , and lived Four Days with me , beating exactly , for I took two , I suppose one was the Female , that is only Conjecture .
I took one some Years since , which I then traced by the Noise , as I did this , and were both the same ; I showed it to Mr. Ray while it was alive and did beat .
This small Beetle , which makes a Ticking or distinct Beating , resembling the Noise of a Watch , being rarely heard , and not known , has obtained the Name of a Death-Watch , which yet I have known to be heard by many , where no mortality follow 'd ; and particularly by my self , who have taken Two of the same , Seven Years since , without any Death following that Year .
This Beetle I found in a Copper Body , it resembled dry Dirt in Colour .
I found another , some Years before , on a rotten Post ; and made the Noise like a Watch , by beating its Head on the Subject that it finds fit for Sound , this found in August , 1695 .
had another answered it in the same Room , and after a Minute 's distinct Beating , would forbear for the other to answer ; which the other single one would not ; though that would make some Breaks now and then .
The Part it beats with is , the extreme Edge of the Face , which I may call the UpperLip , the Mouth being protected by this Bony Part , and lying underneath , out of view .
It was Two Lines and a half long ( calling a Line the eighth part of an Inch ) the Colour a dark brown , with Spots , some lighter , irregularly placed , which would not rub off readily .
They seemed to lye rather athwart the Back , and direct on the Head ; as in the small Figure , which is much of the same Size with it , and the Maculae are designed for the greyish Spots .
Under the Vaginae are the pellucid Wings , and the Body is of a Pullous Colour .
The Head appeared large , by reason of a large Cap or Helmet which covered it round , only at the Ear turned up a little ; from under this appeared the Head , which was flat and thin ; The Eyes forwards ; the Lip hard and shining ; the Ears of the Helmet greyish .
Two Antennae proceeded from under the Eyes , which , by their meeting on the Breast , I conjectured to assist their Feeding , and to be rather Probosces ; and the Helmet to be turned up for Hearingsake , and the Belly plicated as other Beetles .
The other Beetle that answered it was less , and the Marks on the Back not so distinct .
By the Microscope I discovered the Marks to be thickset Spots of Hair , of a Castor Colour ; the Head all hairy , and Face thick of curled Hair .
On theBelly was a little but thin set Hair .
The Eyes appeared large , as in the Figure , The Superficies consisting of many small Squares furrowed deep between , and these lay in Lines transversly descending toward the Nose : These Eyes were not movable but contiguous to the Face without any Cavity to receive them ; and they were very opake .
The Antennae proceeded from under the Eyes ; the first large Joint having a Cavity , out of which it proceeds at the sides of the Lip .
Between the Eyes the Face rises in a little Ridge , which is the Nose , and is signified by the light part of the Face under this crooked Line ~ which is made by the Shade of the Nose that protuberates under it .
And just below the Nostrils are covered by strait pendulous Hair , proceeding from the lower Ridge of the Nose : Under this Hair the Cavity is dark : Below the Nose the Lip-shades show the more depressed places : Under this Lip are visible four Forcipes to lay hold on its Food , two of each side , as in the Figure .
See the Figures , the largest of which is drawn with the help of a Microscope .

