IV .
" Description of the great Melbourne Telescope .
" By T. R. RoBINSON , D.D. , F.R.S. , and THOMAS GRUBB , Esq. , F.R.S. Received June 11 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The authorities of the colony of Victoria formed ( in 1862 ) the wish to establish , in connexion with their new observatory at Melbourne , a powerful telescope for observing the Southern Nebulae , and applied , through the Duke of Newcastle , to the President and Council of the Royal Society for encouragement and advice .
That body had in former years given much attention to this subject , and had received a report from a Committee on it , in the hope of inducing the British Government to take such a step .
The same Committee was consulted , and made another report almost identical with the first .
In consequence of it , the Legislature of Victoria ordered the construction of the telescope in 1865 , which was undertaken early in the following year by Mr. Grubb , under the direction of a Committee consisting of the late Earl of Rosse , Dr. Robinson , and Mr. W. De La Rue .
After Lord Rosse 's death , his son , the present Earl , was appointed in his stead by the President .
It has been very:successfully completed ; and it is thought that some account of it , and the notable things that occurred in its progress , may deserve a record .
As an introduction to this account , a notice of the reasons which guided the Committee in some of their decisions may be useful .
1 .
They chose a four-feet Reflector , because , from the experience gained with Lord Rosse 's and Mr. Lassell 's telescope , they were satisfied that this aperture was sufficient for the work proposed , and also because it had not been proved that a larger one could be equatorially mounted with the requisite firmness and ease of motion .
This last , however , has been convincingly disposed of by the present experiment .
2 .
They chose the Reflector in preference to the Achromatic , because it is not probable that one of the latter will ever be made which shall equal a four-feet in light , and because , if it were , the cost of it would be tremendous .
One of the Committee got from a great continental optician an estimate for one of 30 inches , which would have amounted , complete , to ?
20,000 , and been far inferior in power .
Absurd exaggeration is not uncommon in comparing these two kinds of telescopes , but is easily refuted .
A speculum reflects , after years of use , 0'64 of the incident light , which is the intensity of Herschel 's front view .
In the Newtonian the coefficient is 0'401 ; in the Achromatic light is lost from two causes:-first , by reflection at each of the four surfaces of its lenses .
This can be calculated from Fresnel 's formula , and gives the coefficient of intensity 0'81 , whence the equivalent to a four-feet Newtonian is not less than 33 inches .
Secondly , it must be greater than this ; for no glass is perfectly transparent , and therefore absorbs light according to a law depending on its thickness and a certain constant .
Dr. Robinson discusses this , and comes to the con434 [ June 11 , clusion that the equivalent Achromatic will certainly not be less than 3 feet , and may be much more .
He adduces experimental facts in support of this , and points out the conditions which are necessary for a fair comparison of the two kinds .
3 .
The tube was to be metal lattice-work .
This plan , originally proposed by Sir J. Herschel , had been tried by Lord Rosse , Mr. Lassell , and Mr. W. De la Rue , with marked advantage ; its main purpose is to diminish the evils caused by currents of unequally heated air eddying in the tube .
4 .
They decided that the speculum should be metal , and not silvered glass .
It seemed imprudent to risk the success of the undertaking by venturing on an experiment whose success was not assured ; it was not known whether the silver could be uniformly deposited on so large a scale ; some facts appear to show that glass is more liable to irregular action than speculum metal ; and the intensity of the light in these telescopes is not as great as had been expected .
5 .
The telescope was to be a Cassegrain , not a Newtonian ; and this was the result of long discussion .
This form is little known , for Newton 's hostility to it has created a prejudice against it .
Its chief defect is the difficulty of getting a magnifying power so low that the eye can only take ill the whole pencil , as the first image is magnified from five to six times by the second speculum .
This requires a huge eyepiece , of which the lenses are costly , and , by their thickness , intercept light .
One defect attributed to it by Newton proves to be an advantage ; he thought that the reflection of metal is like that of glass , faintest at perpendicular incidence , but increasing in intensity with the obliquity ; therefore brighter in his telescope at 45 ?
than in the other nearly perpendicular .
But it is now known that the law is different , so that the reflection at 45 ?
is -6 less powerful than the other .
The chief advantage of the Cassegrain , and that which influenced the Committee , is its extreme convenience to the observer ; he is near the ground , and has to move through a small space to command the whole sky , instead of standing on a structure nearly 40 feet high , which cannot be used without fatigue and even danger .
Then formule are given for finding the constants of the telescope ; the foci of its specula are 366 and 75 inches , its lowest power 240 , and its extreme field of view 14 ' 3 .
The composition of the specula is Lord Rosse 's , four equivalents of copper and one of tin , respecting which much detail is given ; and still more of the process of casting the first speculum , which took place Jtly 3 , 1866 .
This was managed according to the method of Lord Rosse , with some modification , caused by the necessity of having a projecting band round the edge of the speculum , and an aperture in its centre .
It was conducted without accident , and safely transferred to the annealillngoven , in which a thermocouple of platinum and iron was inserted , which , at the end of twenty-four days , showed that it was completely cooled .
It came out perfectly sound , but was a little " in winding , " and had Lord Rosse 's " Crowsfeet " on part of its surface .
These might have been ground out , but Mr. Grubb preferred recasting it .
It was broken by an iron ram of 70 lbs. falling four feet .
When the blows were applied through a bar of wood , they did nothing ; but the first one through iron broke it into four equal pieces .
These , when put together , fitted exactly , showing that there was no unequal shrinkage in cooling .
Some changes were made before the second casting , on Sept. 22 .
The hoop-bed of the mould was much strengthened ; the core , which formed the central aperture , and seemed to interfere with the regular flow of the metal , was raised 1inch above the mould ; and this last set on a strong cast-iron frame , which could be inclined at pleasure .
It was sloped , so that at the first part of the pouring the melted alloy filled it from its lower edge to its middle ; it was then lowered rapidly to be horizontal while the pouring was completed .
When it came from the oven , the central disk , which was under the core , was cut out .
This , as well as the third casting , which was made November 24 , came out perfect .
A description is given of the polishing machine , which is remarkable for its smooth and equable action , and not less so for the facility it gives of testing the figure of the speculum during the polishing .
Removing the polisher ( which is built up of wood , so as to combine great strength and lightness ) , one man , by turning a winch , sets the speculum upright .
Doors are opened , and by an eyepiece properly placed a dial or artificial star at a suitable distance is examined .
The specula were ground flat at their back , and true at their edges ; and their focal lengths differ only 1 inch .
Not less important than the perfect figure of a speculum is its being so supported both at the back and edge that it may be subjected to no irregular pressure , for to such it is almost inconceivably sensitive .
The arrangements to secure this are very elegant , and have proved entirely successful .
The lattice of the tube consists of steel bars 4 thick , and , on average , 2k broad , forming openings of 17 by 9 ; it is very light , and so stiff that 1 cwt .
produced only a deflection -inch at 20 feet .
The mode of supporting the small specula is described , and the mechanism by which the moving of them for focal adjustment is made easy to the observer .
One of these specula is peculiar ; it is an achromatized lens , whose coincident surfaces are cemented ; its front one so curved that there can be no false image formed by it , its fourth coated pretty thickly with silver .
This will be more permanent than the metal , and is expected to give more light .
The equatorial is worthy of the telescope .
By inverting the usual arrangement of the polar axis , the eyepiece , circles , and centre of gravity of the whole are brought near the ground ; each axis is provided with three sets of counterpoises ; the polar with two , which relieve its pivots of lateral pressure ; the third lightens the end pressure of the lower one .
Those of the declination axes act , two in its plane parallel and perpendicular 436 [ June 11 , to it , the third parallel to the polar axis .
They are so effective , that 5 lbs. at a leverage of 20 feet turns the polar axis ; 124 the declination one .
A man can raise the telescope from the horizon to the zenith in 20 seconds ; two ( as both axes must be turned ) can reverse it from the cast side of the pier to the west in 45 seconds .
The telescope is moved in right ascension by a sector and screw driven by a very effective clock .
The regulator of this is so powerful , that an addition of 2 cwt .
to its driving-weight only makes it gain six seconds in the hour .
The micrometer has an original mode of illuminating its lines ill a dark field , which has been found very suitable for nebulae .
The spectroscope is on the usual plan , but with special provision for the permanence of its adjustments .
The instrument is also provided with a photographic apparatus , nearly like Mr. De la Rue 's celebrated one , which ( the small speculum being removed ) is placed at the focus of the great speculum .
A few trials made with an extemporized one gave pictures which that gentleman considered to be of great promise .
A high opinion is expressed both of the optical and astronomical powers of the instrument .

