VI .
" Contributions towards the History of the Phosphorus- , Arsenic- , and Antimony-Bases .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 18,1857 .
The facility with which the phosphorus-bases can be obtained by the action of zincethyl upon terchloride of phosphorus , has induced me to study the action of this agent upon the terchlorides of arsenic and antimony .
I have found that triethylarsine and triethylstibine , hitherto obtainable only with difficulty , by submitting the alloys of potassium with arsenic and antimony to the action of iodide of ethyl , may be procured by this process as readily and as abundantly as the phosphorus-bases .
In attempting to identify the substances obtained by the new process with those prepared by the old one , by the analysis of platinumand gold-salts , I have been led to the discovery of a series of compounds of remarkable beauty .
Since the study of these bodies , and especially of their derivatives , which are particularly numerous and interesting , will involve considerable time , I beg leave to submit to the Royal Society , before the session closes , a brief sketch of those substances , the composition of which I have already established by analysis .
On adding a solution of bichloride of platinum to an alcoholic solution of triethylphosphine , of triethylarsine or triethylstibine as long as the colour of the platinum solution entirely disappears , the liquid deposits after a few moments magnificent slightly yellow or colourless crystals .
The three salts thus formed may be considered as the chlorides of three compound ammoniums containing platinum and ethyl , united respectively with phosphorus , arsenic and antimony .
They have the following composition : Pt Chloride of Platophosphethylium. .
EP Cl. E Pt ) Chloride of Platarsethylium ... ... E As CE Pt Chloride of Platostibethylium ... E Sb C. E On substituting for the bichloride of platinum a solution of terchloride of gold , perfectly similar phenomena present themselves .
The gold solution is entirely decolorized , and the colourless liquids deposit three gold compounds , which , remarkably enough , are of a dazzling white colour and silvery lustre .
Analysis has proved these salts to correspond to the platinumsalts just mentioned , the platinum being replaced by an equivalent quantity of gold .
The formulae of these substances areAu- ' E Chloride of Auro-phosphethylium. .
E )PCI .
EJ Au ) ZE I Chloride of Auro-arsethylium. .
As Cl E Au ) Chloride of Auro-stibethylium ... ..E Sb C1 EJ The complementary products formed in these reactions remain in the mother liquors of the several salts , from which they separate in the form of oily compounds which gradually solidify into crystalline masses .
These I have not yet examined .
A glance at the above formule shows that the new compounds which form the subject of this note correspond to the chloride of platammonium , Pt ' HJ H NCl HJ It remains to be ascertained whether the chloride of plato-diammonium , HNHN C1 , HJ H is likewise represented in the phosphorus- , arsenic- , and antimonyseries .

