Observations on the two lately discovered celestial Bodies .
By William Herschel , LL. D. rF .
R.S. Read May 6 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 213 .
] The observations described in the first part of this paper relate to the magnitude , the colour , the disc , and the atmosphere of the two moving stars lately discovered by Mr. Piazzi and Dr. Olbers , to which they have assigned the names of Ceres and Pallas ; and also to the question , whether they be attended by any satellites .
Their magnitudes were determined by means of a comparison of their reflected images with a lucid spot of a disc micrometer placed at considerable distances .
The results of many observations were , that the diameter of Ceres does not subtend an angle of more than 0"/ 40 , or in actual length only 162miles ; and that the diameter of Pallas can hardly measure more than between 71 and 72 miles .
The colour of these bodies was ruddy , and in one instance Pallas Nwas of a dusky white .
Their discs were never of a well defined planetary appearance ; and as to their atmospheres or comas , the greatest extent of that attending Ceres was in one instance about two diameters beyond its disc ; in another instance the whole had a cometary appearance ; or when viewed most accurately , it bore a great resemblance to a small , much compressed , but ill-defined planetary nebula .
Pallas never exhibited more than a faint haziness .
As to satellites , it was inferred previous to the observations , that bodies of such very small dimensions could hardly contain a quantity of matter sufficient for the retention of secondary bodies ; and in fact the several appearances that seemed to denote the existence of such attendants , were on more careful inspection found to be fallacious .
In the second part of the paper Dr. Herschel enters into an inquiry concerning the nature of these new stars , particularly as to the question whether they be planets or comets .
And in order to proceed upon certain grounds , he previously enumerates certain criteria by which the heavenly bodies may be properly distinguished .
These , as to the planets , are seven in number , 1 .
'Those till lately discovered are all of a considerable size ; 2 .
They move in not very excentric ellipses round the sun ; 3 .
The planes of their orbits do not deviate many degrees from the plane of the earth 's orbit ; 4 .
Their motion is direct ; 5 .
They may have satellites or rings ; 6 .
They have an atmosphere of considerable extent , which , however , bears hardly any sensible proportion to their diameters ; and lastly , Their orbits are at certain considerable distances from each other .
These characters being next applied to the new stars , we find , in the first place , that as to the magnitude , they can certainly not be classed among planets ; since the least of these ( Mercury ) is no less than 73,839 times larger than Pallas ; 2 .
Their motions may perhaps agree sufficiently ; but 3 .
The planes of the orbits of the new stars appear to deviate so much from that of the earth , that , were they admitted into the number of planets , we should have to extend the zodiac far beyond its present limits ; and as it is not improbable that more of these bodies will be hereafter discovered , we shall perhaps end in having no zodiac at all .
As to the 4th article , The motion of the new stars appears to be direct , like that of the planets .
5 .
Besides that no satellites have as yet been discovered belonging to these new stars , it may be inferred a priori that they have not a sufficient mass of matter to retain any .
6 .
The new stars , with respect to the small comas they exhibit , differ widely from planets , and might rather be classed among the comets , did not other circumstances militate against this opinion ; and lastly , The orbits of the new stars are so near each other , that the admitting them as planets would materially affect the general harmony that takes place among the rest .
As to their being comets , the five following criteria are here given , by which those desultory bodies have hitherto been distinguished:1 .
They are generally of a very small size ; 2 .
They move in very excentric ellipses , or apparently parabolic arches round the sun ; 3 .
The direction of their motion is totally undetermined ; 4 .
The planes of their orbits admit of the greatest variety in their situation ; and 5 .
They have atmospheres of very great extent , which show themselves in various forms of tails , comas , haziness , &amp;c. On applying these distinguishing characters to the new stars , we find , that as to size , they might perhaps be classed with comets ; but that , as to the nature of the curve in which they move , the direction of their motion , and the planes of their orbits , they deviate still more from comets than they do from planets ; and that , as to their atmosphere , though they bear in this respect a greater resemblance to comets than to planets , yet , upon a careful comparison with the appearances of several comets observed of late years , it seems evident that they are not entitled to a place among them ; the most considerable of their comas being barely one-fiftieth part of the smallest that has ever been observed to attend a comet .
Thus it appears , that neither the appellation of planet nor comet can be assigned to these newly discovered bodies .
And it remains , therefore , to find out some new term by which they may be distinguished .
Previously to this , the author thinks it necessary to fix upon an accurate definition , with a view to facilitate an appropriate denomination .
According to this definition they are " Celestial bodies of a small or a very small size , which move in orbits of no very great excentricity round the sun , the planes of which may be inclined to the ecliptic in any angle whatsoever : their motion may be direct or retrograde ; and they may or may not have very considerable atmospheres , or very small comas or nuclei .
"

