VIII .
" On a Method of making a Direct Comparison of Electrostatic with Electromagnetic Force ; with a Note on the Electromagnetic Theory of Light .
" By J. CLERK MAXWELL , F.R.SS .
L. &amp; E. Received June 10 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments described in this paper were made in the laboratory of Mr. Gassiot , who placed his great battery of 2600 cells of bichloride of mercury at the disposal of the author .
Mr. Willoughby Smith lent his resistance-coils of 1,102,000 Ohms ; Messrs. Forde and Fleeming Jenkin lent a sensitive galvanometer , a set of resistance-coils , a bridge , and a key for double simultaneous contacts ; and Mr. C. Hockin undertook the observation of the galvanometer , the adjustment of the resistances , and the testing of the galvanometer , the resistance-coils , and the micrometer-screw .
The electrical balance itself was made by Mr. Becker .
The experiments consisted in observing the equilibrium of two forces , one of which was the attraction between two disks , kept at a certain difference of potential , and the other was the repulsion between two circular coils , through which a certain current passed in opposite directions .
For this purpose one of the disks , with one of the coils attached to its hinder surface , was suspended on one arm of a torsion-balance , while the other disk , with the other coil behind it , was placed at a certain distance , which was measured by a micrometer-screw .
The suspended disk , which was smaller than the fixed disk , was adjusted so that in its position of equilibrium its surface was in the same plane with that of a " 1 guard-ring , " as in Sir W. Thomson 's electrometers , and its position was observed by means of a microscope directed on a graduated glass scale attached to the disk .
In this way its position could be adjusted to the thousandth of an inch , while a motion of much smaller extent was easily detected .
An exactly similar coil was placed at the other end of the torsionbalance , so as to get rid of the effects of terrestrial magnetism .
It was found that though the suspended disk and coil weighed about half a pound , a very slight want of equality between the opposing forces could be detected , and remedied by means of the micrometer .
The difference of potential between the disks was maintained by means of Mr. Gassiot 's great battery .
To measure this difference of potential , it was made to produce a current through Mr. Willoughby Smith 's resistance-coil , and the primary coil of the galvanometer shunted with a variable resistance .
The current in the coils was maintained by a Grove 's battery , and was led through the secondary coil of the galvanometer .
One observer , by means of the micrometer-screw , altered the distance of the disks till the suspended disk was in equilibrium at zero .
At the same time the other observer altered the shunt , till the galvanometerneedle was also in equilibrium .
The micrometer reading and the resistance of the shunt were then set down as the results of the experiment .
The mean of twelve satisfactory experiments , at distances varying from ?
25 to '5 inch , gave for the ratio of the electromagnetic to the electrostatic unit of electricity-v=27'79 Ohms , or B.A. units .
=277,900,000 metres per second .
174,800 statute miles per second .
This value is considerably lower than that found by MM .
Weber and Kohlrausch by a different method , which was 310,740,000 metres per second .
Its correctness depends on that of the B. A. unit of resistance , which , however , cannot be very far from the truth , as it agrees so well with Dr. Joule 's thermal experiments .
It is also decidedly less than any estimate of the velocity of light , of which the lowest , that of M. Foucault , is 298,000,000 metres per second .
In a note to this paper the author gave his reasons , in as simple a form as he could , for believing that the ratio of the electrical units , and the velocity of light , are one and the same physical quantity , pointing out the difference between his theory and those of MM .
Riemann and Lorenz , which appear to lead to the same conclusion .

