1884.1 The Changes in the Blastopore of the Newt .
65 to the axis which bears it .
This may be shown simply in tabular form thus\#151 ; Shoot .
r i Axis .
Leaf .
I I .
I Phyllopodium .
Pinna .
III .
" On the Changes and ultimate Fate of the Blastopore in the Newt ( Triton cristatus ) .
" By Alice Johnson , Newnham College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Michael Foster , Sec. R.S. Received May 15 , 1884 .
In a paper lately published on " The Origin of Metameric Segmentation , " Mr. Sedgwick mentions that he was led to conclude from Surface views of a large number of stages that the blastopore of the newt ( Triton cristatus ) does not close , but persists as the anus .
He suggested to me afterwards that I should attempt to test this observation by cutting sections of the embryos , and my results fully confirm what he previously stated .
Scott and Osborn , in their account of the development of the newt , describe a posterior dilatation of the medullary canal , the sinus rhomboidalis , which remains open for some time after the rest of the canal has closed .
They say that its folds enclose the blastopore , and that , therefore , when they come together , a neurenteric canal is formed .
Their account of the exact date of the closure of the medullary folds in this region is a little obscure , but seems to indicate that the event takes place while the number of protovertebrae is quite small , and before the rudiments of the visceral arches and tail have appeared .
Hertwig figures an open blastopore at a slightly later stage than this , but , judging from his surface views of the embryo , it is situated at the hind end of the tail .
At a stage when the medullary folds are widely apart , the slightly elongated blastopore is placed at the hind end of the body .
While the folds are approaching one another the dorsal surface grows faster than the ventral , so that the blastopore is carried round on to the ventral surface .
When the folds have completely coalesced , and before there is any trace of a tail , the blastopore is placed at some little distance from the hind end , which is much swollen and spherical in outline .
In transverse sections of the stage just described we find the blastopore actually communicating with a cavity in the midst of the yolk-cells .
This cavity is so exceedingly narrow that it can hardly be YOL .
XXXVII .
F 66 The Changes in the Blastopore of the Newt .
[ May 29 , traced into connexion with the middle part of the gut .
( In longitudinal sections it appears as a mere line , but its continuity with the rest of the gut can then be clearly followed .
) For some distance behind the blastopore all the layers are fused in the middle ventral line .
We find , in fact , a primitive , exactly comparable with that of the amniotic vertebrata .
Passing further backwards , a large solid roundish mass is gradually marked off in the middle line from the lateral plates of mesoblast and the hypoblast yolk-cells .
This mass gradually acquires a lumen , and is finally continued round into the medullary canal on the dorsal surface .
Thus there is no neurenteric canal at this time , and I have equally failed to find it at any other stage .
The tail next buds out from the region behind the blastopore .
It is a small roundish knob , its apex pointing downwards and forwards on account of the ventral curvature of the whole body .
Scott and Osborn describe it as " an unsegmented mass of mesoblast .
" I should prefer to call it an outgrowth of the front end of the primitive streak , in which the same features that I have described in the previous stage are now seen still more clearly .
As it passes back from the dorsal surface round the hind end of the body , the medullary canal loses its lumen and becomes a solid cord of epiblast , distinct from the notochord and lateral plates of mesoblast .
A few sections further on , it becomes indistinguishably fused with both these structures , and a mass of cells is thus formed , from which a knob representing the rudiment of the notochord projects into the central yolk-cells .
Passing still in the same direction along the ventral surface towards the blastopore , the notochordal rudiment disappears and the fused mass of cells becomes shorter from above downwards , and also compressed from side to side .
The cavity of the hind gut is almost obliterated in the hind part of the ventral side of the body , and then widens out again in front .
Here it is a slit , having its dorsal wall in close contact with its ventral wall , but comparatively broad from side to side .
Further forwards it becomes wider from above downwards and narrower from side to side , till it passes at the root of the tail into the blastopore .
The blastopore marks the extreme front end of the primitive streak on the ventral surface .
The 3olid condition of the hinder part of the medullary canal for a short region before it becomes indistinguishably fused with the primitive streak is described by Gasser in the bird , and he asserts that the lumen is gradually continued back as the medullary canal is differentiated out of the primitive streak .
The description would , I think , apply equally well to the newt .
I have not yet made out satisfactorily the condition of the primitive streak in the early stages , but I hope to be able to elucidate this later , and to publish figures illustrating my results .

