3 .
" Experiments towards the construction of new forms of Instrumeents for the correction of Compass Errors due:to the presence of iron in ships ; : with investigations on the nature of the attraction of Iron on the poles of Magnets .
" By Julius Roberts , Esq. , Lieut. R.M.:Artillery .
Communicated by Capt. W. H. Smyth , R.N. , For .
Sec. R.S. Received March 25 , 1852 .
The object of the author 's experiments and investigations is stated to have been the-production of an instrument that would , under all variety of circumstances , give a correct ( magnetic ) meridian direction , or in some way indicate the amount of its own error ; and he considers that he has , at least partially , succeeded in the attainment of this object in the instrument described in this paper , and of which drawings accompany the communication .
In order to determine the nature of the action of a mass of iron on a magnetic needle , the author constructed needlesiwith the magnetic bar wholly on one side of the central support , counterpoised by an arm carrying a weight on the other .
In some of these the magnetic bar was straight , in orthersit was bent in the middle , either the upper or lower half being horizontal .
He also constructed a compound needle of two such bent bars , suspended concentrically with two of'their contrary poles renote , ; the other two poles being the one above and the other below the points of support .
In order to give magnetic stability to the compound needle , an arc of soft iron was attached to the extremity of the counterpoising arm:of each magnet .
so as to be in close proximity , though not actuallyto touch the other.:Attached to the counterpoise arms were thealesof a compass-card cut through ' the east and west points , and , so adjusted that the edge 'of one was vertically over that of the other when : the needles were in the same vertical plane , but crossed each other when the needles deviated from the same direction .
Theauthor considered that a mass of iron attractingeach pole of this compound needleould cause : the cards to ' cross each:other , and thus give the amiount -f deviation due to that mass , but found that , ; instead of the cards crossing , the needles deviated in contrary directions so-as to remain in one straight line , as if they had been rigidly connected .
To obviate this , for the magnet having its unmarked end pointing south was substituted one having its marked end in that direction , but of less power than that of which the marked end pointed north : ; and : two magnets rigidly connected in the same straight line , with their marked ends remote , were balanced concentric with the other two .
The author considers that the result of this combination would be , 'that this astatic bar would , by the repulsion between its poles and:those of the other magnets , take up a position at right angles to the magnetic meridian , the other magnets pointing due north and south .
Further , that the north pointing and south pointing ends of the compound needle on the half cards being poles of the same ; name , that is , both 'marked , any mass of iron which attracted one end would also attract the -other , and thus the half cards which they carried ' would be-caused to cross each othter .
So that the whole being properly 'adjusted , the deviationscaused by the iron:on the two needles will be equal , and the error-of deviation of -either one will be half the angle between the two .
A figure of this complicated compass accompanies the description .
In conclusion , the author states that the practicability of rendering the instrument so simple and accurate as to be generally useful ; depends:i n -experiments and investigations 'yet to ' be made ; ; and ;

