On a fossil human Skeleton from Guadaloupe .
By Charles Konig , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read February 10 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 107 .
] The skeleton described in this letter was contained in a mass of stone nearly two tons in weight , brought home by Sir Alexander Cochrane , and presented by the Admiralty to the British Museum .
The existence of such skeletons had been mentioned by General Ernouf , in a letter to Faujas St. Fond , published in the fifth volume of the Annals du Museum ; and also by Lavaisse , in his Voyage a la Trinidad .
The block brought home by Sir Alexander Cochrane agreed very correctly with the description given by General Ernouf , measuring 8 feet by 2- , having very much the appearance of a huge nodule separated from a surrounding mass , without any marks of a tool , excepting a few holes that had evidently been made to assist in raising it .
The situation of the skeleton in the block was so superficial , that it had probably been discovered by the projection of a part of the left fore-arm .
Nevertheless , the operation of laying the whole open to view , with all the care that was requisite for its preservation , was attended with very considerable difficulty , on account of the excessive hardness of the stone adjacent to the bones , and the comparative softness of the bones themselves .
Unfortunately the skull is wanting ; and the author , with much reason , regrets the loss of this characteristic part , which by its form might have thrown some light on the period when it was deposited , or at least as to the nation to whom the individual belonged .
The vertebrie of the neck are also lost along with the head ; the thorax bears marks of violent compression .
The seven ribs of the left side are complete , but dislocated .
Those of the right side are all broken ; and their extremities are found on the left side of the spine .
Such parts of the arms and legs as remain , are found in their natural position ; but many are entirely wanting , and most are broken , or otherwise imperfect .
The bones are thought to have acquired a degree of hardness since their first exposure , though still far inferior to that of the surrounding stone .
A small portion of one of the bones examined by Sir Humphry Davy was found to contain a part of its animal matter , and the whole of its phosphate of lime .
The rock in which they are imbedded consists of a calcareous sand , firmly agglutinated .
Some of the grains appear to be portions of compact limestone ; others are particles of zoophytes ; some white , others yellowish ; and many which are red in various degrees appear to be fragments of Millepora miniacea .
Some shells are also found , but in no great number ; one of them much resembles Helix acuta of Martin ; and another is a Turbo , the species of which is not yet determined .
The only bony substance observed beside the skeleton itself , has a concentric laminated structure , and appears to be part of a tusk , but from what animal cannot be ascertained .
There are also here and there a few specks of a black substance that has the properties of charcoal .
By the workmen employed in exposing the skeleton , the stone is thought to be harder than statuary marble , by the degree of impression made by their saw or chisel .
Its formation appears to be similar to that of common sandstone , only that the grains of which it is composed are calcareous , and have in some parts become confluent , particularly in the parts adjacent to the bones , and in these parts Dr. Thomson has found traces of phosphoric acid .
From all the circumstances , it is pretty evident that the injury which the bones have sustained has occurred subsequently to their deposition , and before the sand in which they lie had concreted into the present stony substance .
With respect to the period at which this may have happened , the author thinks it impossible to pronounce with decision .
It may be of very recent formation , but there is nothing which necessarily implies it to be so .
The presence of animal matter is by no means conclusive ; since bones from the plaster quarries at Paris still contain it .
Unfortunately , our geological knowledge of Guadaloupe is yet too imperfect to assist in determining this question .
The only positive information being , that the bed in which these skeletons are found is nearly an English mile in length , and that it is covered by the sea at high water .

