]\gt ; respectively ( inner ) and ( outer ) , wiffi within the material , the preceding conditions give relations Let , then depending for a thin shell mainly on and not .
Moreover , , depending mainly on .
For a large permeability and a thin , we may write where is the thickness of the shell , and terms of relative order neglected .
In experiments described subsequently , is about If a second order is required , in general \amp ; k that These equations connect the constants in a convenient form at points just within two successive air spaces , and they are equivalent to recurrence formulae .
If they are developed further for thin shells of the order to which these experiments relate , approximately , , and within an error not exceeding about 2 per cent. , We may now write down the reourrence formulae in a convenient form .
Let and be the values of and just within the air spaaee bounding the inner surface of the shell , then where whereeffectivelyThe ratio iwhich atio i : The best illustration of the mode of calculation is a direct numerical Suppose , for example , we build up a series of shells , starting with a radius of 30 cm .
, and the thickness of the shells and air spaces is in each case 2 cm .
, the initial permeability of each shell being 100 .
Then , neglecting the second order , , nd so on , while planes in relation to the direction of the earth 's field does not account for the reversal of sign of the internal field in the case of the four complete shells .
For more dspecially in ( d ) , the field which leaks through the first junction plane is incident on the solid mass of the xt shell except at two single points only , and therefore should not appreciably leak into the next shell .
The same considerations come into play in the interior shells .
It seems fairly evident , therefore , that the effect is due to permanent magnetisation of the outer shell , and in a later section this supposition is verified .
The approximately horizontal portions shown on Curves 4 , , in the neighbourhood of , are due to the tendency of the earth 's field to preserve the right against the opposing forces .
It will be noticed that in all the experimehts with the planes of junction identical , the relative positions of the shells are the same on account of the axis of the inductor .
Any change in the position of this axis would have involved further perforation of the shells , and consequent increase in the leakage .
This important variable was for this reason not tested .
with Magnet Coils .
total area of shell .
The average outer surface of a shell is cm.2 and the circumference of a diametral section is ) cm .
The thickness of leakage space varied between and 4 mm. , with an average cm .
The orrespondin ratio is ) Thus the leakage actually found for four shells is four times as as might have been expected for one by this rough argument , which is evidently therefore inapplicable , and leakage fields must therefore be guarded against in such experiments thoroughly than has usually been thought necessary . .
An inductor which practically fills the internal space is of course necessary in the estimation of the true average value of the leakage , which is by no eans unifo1m throughout the space .
Using the results obtained for one , two , and three shells without demagnetisation , the intensities in the shielded fields are as follows:\mdash ; lower order .
a The leakage through air spaces in a magnetic shield has been studied , and found to be more important than is usually supposed .
Although plarisation of the shells still exists to a small extent , it is not of sufficient magnitude to affect any of the conclusions which have been reached .
The leakage field can , in fact , be completely isolated from other fields .
4 .
It is now possible to examine the behaviour of iron under practically no magnetic force .
The Period of a Resonator with Circular Aperture .
By F. PURYER WHITE , St. John 's College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. Received June 23 , 1916 .
) In a paper on\ldquo ; The Theory of the Helmholtz Resonator , Lord Rayleigh has carried the determination of the wave-length of the fundamental aerial vibration a spherioal vessel with a small circular perforation to a second approximation , obtaining the result .
, ( 1 ) where is the radius of the sphere , the small radius of the aperture , and the volume of the sphere .
To obtain this value he assumes a form for the velooity over the apertureand adjusts it so as to lead to agreement , to a corresponding approximation , in the values of the velocity potential derived therebom over the agerture inside and outside , so to provide for

