498 On the Physiological Activity of Substances Indirectly Related to Adrenalin .
By H. D. Dakin .
( Communicated by Professor E. H. Starling , F.R.S. Received May 29 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) ( From the Laboratory of Pathological Chemistry , Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine .
) Since adrenalin itself possesses such remarkably definite physiological properties which are shared by the synthetical substance described in the preceding paper , it seemed to be of interest to try and trace some connection between their chemical structure and physiological action and , in particular , to see if the activity was to be ascribed to any particular chemical group or combination of groups .
HO____ If the formula for adrenalin be either HO\lt ; ^ \cfl(OH).CH2NHCH3 or HO___ HO^ ^\gt ; .OH(NH .
CH3).CH2OH , we may artificially divide the molecule into two portions , an aromatic catechol nucleus and an oxyethylmethylamine ( CH2OH .
OH2NHCH3 ) side-chain .
The latter substance was prepared by heating glycolchlorhydrin with methylamine ( 1 ) and it was found that injection into a rabbit of quantities up to 10 milligrammes was followed by slight if any rise in blood-pressure .
Injections of catechol , on the other hand , produce a great increase in pressure , as may be seen in fig. 1 .
This fact has also been observed by Muhlmann ( 2 ) .
The amount of substance required to produce an effect is considerable when compared with adrenalin , but a positive result seems significant .
It will be seen from the tracing that the effect is prolonged , and it was found that subsequent injection of adrenalin produced no higher retinal pressure than that caused by catechol .
When smaller quantities are injected into rabbits it is found that one does not obtain a rapid rise followed by a rapid fall , but both phases are prolonged and the stimulation is sub-maximal .
The power of causing increased blood-pressure is shared by many other substances containing the catechol nucleus .
Thus the two intermediate products in the synthesis of the " adrenalin-like " base described in the preceding paper are both physiologically active .
In the case of chloracetyl- Physiological Activity of Substances related to Adrenalin .
499 catechol several milligrammes are required to produce well-marked effects , but methylamino-acetylcatechol is more nearly related to adrenalin , and , as one would expect , is more active physiologically .
The properties of this substance have been investigated by Hans Meyer ( 3 ) so that it is unnecessary to give further details , but it may be noted that about half a milligramme is necessary to produce a definite rise in blood-pressure in a rabbit , so that the activity of the substance is far inferior to that of adrenalin .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Rabbit , 2'2 kilogrammes .
Carotid B. P. Yagi divided .
Urethane .
10 milligrammes catechol .
Zero pressure 30 mm. below signal line .
Time = seconds .
If the chlorine in chloracetylcatechol be replaced by hydrogen the product acetylcatechol , C6H3(OH)2.CO .
CH3 , is still active , but if the hydrogen of the hydroxyl groups be replaced , for example , by acetyl groups the product is quite inactive .
Similarly , although , as previously stated , injection of catechol is followed by increase in blood-pressures , the methyl ether of catechol , CH3.O.C6H4(OH ) , produces no such effect and other analogous cases have been observed .
It may be noted that substitution of the hydrogen of the phenolic hydroxyl groups very greatly increases the chemical stability of these substances and this , one may well imagine , would tend to result in substances of less marked physiological activity .
From these results it would appear that two free hydroxyl groups in the nucleus are essential constituents of active substances in this group and , since of the three isomeric dihydroxy-benzenes only catechol produces a rise in blood-pressure after injection , it is possible - that the hydroxyl groups must be in the ortho position to one 500 Mr. H. D. Dakin .
Physiological Activity of [ May 29 , another .
Further work is needed , however , before the question can be definitely decided .
As has been already stated , methylamino-acetyloatechol is fairly active in causing increased blood-pressure , whilst the activity of its reduction product is comparable with that of adrenalin .
It seemed to be of interest to try the action of the amino- and other alkylamino-acetyleatechols and their reduction products .
A considerable difference is noticeable in their physiological properties , corresponding to differences in chemical structure .
Thus , amino-acetylcatechol ( C6H3(OH)2.CO .
CH2NH2 ) , and the lower alkylamino-acetyl-catechols , e.g. , the ethyl and di-methyl derivatives , closely resemble the methylamino-acetylcatechol previously described , and their reduction products are very active .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Rabbit , 2'5 kilogrammes .
Carotid B. P. Vagi divided .
Urethane .
O'OOIO gramme hydrochloride of ethylamino-acetylcatechol .
Zero pressure 30 mm. below signal line .
Time = seconds .
If , however , one takes a higher member of the same series , e.g. , heptylamino-acetylcatechol , C6H3(OH)2.CO .
CH2NH(CH2)6.CH3 , it is found that whilst the ketone base is still active , yet on reduction its activity is but slightly increased .
The base was prepared by the action of excess of heptylamine upon the di-acetyl derivative of chloracetylcatechol , and is a white crystalline substance melting at 125 ' , and giving beautifully crystalline salts .
This result shows that the nature of the alkyl group attached to the nitrogen atom is of great importance .
If , instead of an aliphatic one substitutes an aromatic group attached to the nitrogen atom the changes in physiological properties are very marked .
The following bases were examined:\#151 ; 1905 .
] Substances indirectly Related to Adrenalin .
0 K 0 0 1 1 0\#151 ; CEUNH / \ / ^-C\#151 ; ch2nh \ I / \CH3 c\#151 ; ch2.nh II / IN v 0 \/ hoU u O V Hoi 1 1 | Y N/ \/ H H H Anilino-acetylcatechol ( 4 ) .
o-Toluidino-acetjlcatechol ( 4 ) .
a-Naphthylammo-acefcylcatechol .
None of these bases produced a decided rise in blood-pressure on injection of small quantities .
Usually , a fall in pressure was noted , which was least marked with the first substance , and was in this case sometimes followed by a slight rise .
This rise was more marked when the substance obtained by its reduction was injected , but even then its activity was far behind the simpler alkylamino derivatives .
As the aromatic bases are only very sparingly soluble in water , they were dissolved in weak alcohol for purposes of injection .
Control experiments without the bases were made with satisfactory results .
The a-naphthylamino-acetylcatechol has not been previously described and was prepared by acting upon chloracetylcatechol ( 1 mol .
) with a-naphthylamine ( 2 mols .
) and a little alcohol .
It is a faintly yellowish-green coloured crystalline substance , sparingly soluble in dilute spirit and is a very feeble base .
A base ( CeHs^H^.CO .
CHaNH .
C^.C'aHs ) , which may be regarded as intermediate between the two chemical types already described , was obtained by the action of benzylamine upon chloracetylcatechol .
The substance is crystalline and readily soluble in alcohol .
It had very little effect on the blood-pressure in rabbits , even when injected in fairly large quantities .
Another kind of base was prepared by acting upon chloracetylcatechol with tertiary bases .
For example , aqueous tri-methylamine ( 1 mol .
) was digested with chloracetycatechol for some hours , and after adding a drop or two of dilute hydrochloric acid the solution was concentrated and crystallised .
Purification is readily carried out by solution in alcohol and precipitation with ether .
The substance has the formula CgllgfUHjs .
C = O.CH2N(CH3)g01 .
It was found to be more , active than the corresponding mono-methylamine derivative from which the " adrenalin-like " substance was obtained .
In the case of rabbits , so small a quantity as 0-00002 gramme may produce a marked rise .
In the comparatively few experiments which were made , it appeared that the substance was very rapidly destroyed after injection , as when quite large quantities were employed the effect was scarcely more prolonged than when the minimal amount necessary to produce maximal stimulation was used .
The reduction of the tri-methylamine derivative did not give products of 502 Mr. H. D. Dakin .
Physiological Activity of [ May 29 , much increased activity , thus differing in this respect very distinctly from the mono-alkylamine derivatives .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Eabbit , 2'5 kilogrammes .
Carotid B. P. Yagi divided .
Urethane .
0'0005 gramme C6H3(OH)2.CO .
CH2N(CH3)3Cl .
Zero pressure 40 mm. below signal line .
Time = seconds .
A corresponding base in the aromatic series was prepared from dimethyl aniline and chloracetylcatechol , but , like the other aromatic bases , was not effective in producing rise in blood-pressure .
It is well known that injection of piperidine is followed by increase in blood-pressure ( 5 ) , and it therefore seemed conceivable that if instead of the ordinary amines used in preparing the bases already described , piperidine was substituted , one might obtain products with increased activity .
Experiments , however , showed that this was not the case .
Piperidino-aeetylcatechol , HO_______ H2c____CH2 ' H0\lt ; ^ .
C-CH2.n/ ^\gt ; OH2 , was found to be decidedly less active than O ch2 ch2 the corresponding methylamine derivative , and its activity was scarcely increased upon reduction .
* It is obvious that the experiments recorded , although ranging over a number of different types of substances , are very incomplete , yet they seem to warrant certain conclusions , and to indicate the lines upon which one must proceed if one wishes to synthesise substances whose physiological properties more or less closely approximate to those of natural adrenalin .
1905 .
] Substances indirectly Related to Adrenalin .
503 Fig. 4.\#151 ; Rabbit , 2*5 kilogrammes .
Carotid \#163 ; .
P. Vagi divided .
Urethane .
0'005 gramme piperidino-acetylcatechol as hydrochloride .
Zero pressure 30 mm. below signal line .
Time = seconds .
The following deductions are made provisionally , until further experimental evidence is available:\#151 ; ( i ) It appears that the catechol nucleus is essential for the production of physiologically active substances of the type of adrenalin .
( ii ) It is of importance that the hydrogen atoms of both hydroxyl groups in the catechol nucleus be unsubstituted .
( iii ) An alkyl group of low molecular weight ( c.g. , methyl , ethyl ) attached to the nitrogen tends to produce a much more active substance than when an aromatic group is attached , whilst derivatives of piperidine , heptylamine , and benzylamine occupy an intermediate position .
HO____ ( iv ) The reduction of ketonic bases of the type HO\lt ; ^ .
C\#151 ; CH2R where 6 \#166 ; R is a simple aliphatic group , results in the production of bases with enormously increased physiological activity .
( v ) In the substances examined there appears to be a connection between chemical instability and physiological activity , and vice versed .
In conclusion I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness to the Research Fund Committee of the Chemical Society for a grant which has partly defrayed the expenses of the work described in this and the preceding paper .
REFERENCES .
( 1 ) Knorr , 'Chem .
Berichte , ' vol. 22 , p. 2088 , 1889 .
( 2 ) Miihlmann , 'Deutsch .
med .
Wochenschrift , ' No. 26 , 1896 .
( 3 ) Hans Meyer , International Physiological Congress , Brussels , 1904 .
( 4 ) Dziergowski , ' Journ. Russian Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 25 , p. 154 .
( 5 ) Tunriicliffe , 'Centralblatt .
f. Physiologic , ' vol. 10 , p. 777 , 1897 ; Moore , 'Jour Physiol. , ' vol. 22 , p. 273 , 1897 .

