Description of a triple Sulphuret , of Lead , Antimony , and Copper , from Cornwall ; with some Observations upon the various Modes of Attraction which influence the Formation of mineral Substances , and upon the different Kinds of Sulphuret of Copper .
By the Count de Bournon , F.R.S. and L.S. Read December 22 , 1803 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 30 .
] The copious contents of this paper are arranged under the three following heads:-1 .
A description of the sulphuret of lead mentioned in the title ; 2 .
Observations on the various modes of attraction which influence the formation of mineral substances ; and 3 .
Observations upon the different kinds of sulphuret of copper .
1 .
The cupro-antimonial sulphuret of lead , described in the first part , has hitherto been found only in Cornwall ; and though many specimens of it are to be met with in various collections in the kingdom , yet no writer has hitherto taken any particular notice of it , nor has it been classed by any of the late compilers of mineralogical systems .
Mr. Hatchett is the first who , on a careful analysis , has ascertained it to be a triple sulphuret , in which the sulphur is combined with lead , antimony , and copper ; each of these ingredients exhibiting their characters in so striking a manner as to afford , in some measure , a new example of a natural compound in the mineral kingdom .
The following are its principal characters.-It is of a dark gray colour ; it has a brilliant lustre , and is very brittle ; its hardness is such , that it very easily cuts calcareous spar , but is not sufficient to scratch fluor spar ; it slightly marks white paper ; when rubbed , it does not emit any smell ; when powdered and thrown upon a hot iron , it emits a phosphorescent light ; and its specific gravity is 5765 .
The form of its primitive crystal is a rectangular tetrahedral prism , with terminal faces perpendicular to its axis ; but as no specimen has yet been discovered in which the above-mentioned .
form is totally destitute of secondary facets , the author enters into a minute investigation of the various modifications of this form , hoping by this means to promote essentially the knowledge of the crystalline character , so important in the study of mineralogy .
These modifications are four in number , and can only be understood by inspecting the figures which are subjoined to the paper .
To these characters is added the more essential one , which is supplied by the proportions of the constituent parts of the substance .
These , according to Mr. Hatchett 's analysis , consist of 42 62 of lead , 24-23 of antimony , 12-80 of copper , and 17 of sulphur : 1-20 of iron was likewise yielded in the process ; but this is thought to have been a mere accidental mixture .
It is next observed , that all the characters in this substance indicate very plainly the mutual combination of the three sulphurets of which it is found to be composed- ; the whole of the external characters above described differing materially from those of either of the three sulphurets , and also from those of any metallic substance hitherto known ; and the prQportion of sulphur obtained from it by analysis being exactly the total quantity that should be contained in the three sulphurets of which this substance consists .
The specific gravity of this substance , compared with those of its ingredients , also indicates that the combination is attended with an expansion nearly proportionate to the numbers 6000:5765 .
2 .
The author , proposing to avail himself of the opportunity afforded him by this inquiry , to enter into an investigation concerning the various ores that are produced by the combination of sulphur and copper , of the nature of which neither mineralogy nor chemistry has yet supplied us with any certain information , thinks it necessary , in the second part of his paper , to offer some remarks concerning the different modes of attraction that appear to influence the formation of mineral substances .
Two kinds of attraction have hitherto been admitted to prevail in the formation of mineral substances , viz. the attraction of composition , and the attraction of aggregation .
The former , which is more generally known by the name of chemical attraction , takes place only between the most simple or primitive molecules of a substance ; which , however , must be of dissimilar nature : and to its action is owing the formation of new , or , as they may properly be called , secondary or integrant molecules ; because they , and they only , determine the nature of all the compound bodies belonging to the mineral kingdom .
The difference existing between mineral bodies is now said to depend-lst , Upon the nature of the primitive molecules , by the combination of which they are produced ; and 2ndly , Upon the proportion in which these molecules , supposing them to be the same , are combined together .
The combination of these secondary-molecules is effected by the attraction of aggregation , which unites them into one or several masses , perfectly homogeneous in all their parts .
This attraction of aggregation seems to be susceptible of various modifications , which alter its manner of acting upon the constituent molecules .
Of these , two are here mentioned:-1 .
The crystalline attraction of aggregation ; and 2 .
The simple attraction of aggregation .
The former always takes place between similar molecules , and is either regular , irregular , or amorphous .
The first of these produces solid bodies , which are either constantly of the same form , or subject to certain laws of variation , which are always capable of being referred to the same primitive form .
This , like all other crystalline attractions , can only take place in fluids , which , among other conditions , must be at rest when it is operating .
When the fluid happens to be agitated , the crystallization will then be of the second kind , and the forms produced will be irregular : and when the agitation of the fluid is still greater , small irregular detached masses will subside , and unite together by a mode of attraction , which is here called simple homogeneous attraction of aggregation , of which instances are given in the granulated quartz and granulated carbonate of lime .
This attraction operates at times simultaneously with the simple homogeneous attraction ; and then the granulated masses , instead of being composed of an aggregate of irregular grains , will appear to consist of small crystals of a very regular form , as may be very frequently seen in manganesian carbonate of lime .
At other times , again , the molecules , instead of uniting together by the influence of the crystalline attraction of aggregation , are precipitated in a detached but confused manner ; and then a simple aggregation takes place , which banishes all appearances of crystallization , and affords the aspect which has been distinguished by the name of compact or earthy .
This last , or the amorphous species of crystallization , is here described as being that kind which , though it produces no determinate form , is nevertheless the result of a regular aggregation .
This is thought to depend on the peculiar form of the primitive molecules ; such as , for instance , the globular , or others approaching to it .
Calcedony , girasol , and pure transparent steatite , appear to owe their origin to this mode of formation .
And here the author enters into a minute disquisition concerning the cause of the deception which has often taken place , and has led several experienced mineralogists to ascribe to these substances , especially the chalcedony , a certain degree of regular crystallization .
Besides these attractions between similar molecules of substances , there exists another , between such similar molecules and others which are dissimilar , or of a different nature .
This introduces what may be called an heterogeneous attraction of aggregation , which is much weaker and more variable than any of the others , and produces substances which can no longer be called chemical combinations .
In these , the dissimilar ingredients may , and often do , vary in proportion , according to the different circumstances under which they are formed ; as , for instance , in those kinds of tremolite which have the dolomite for matrix where the carbonate of lime is in the proportion of -1 , ; whereas in those kinds which have an argillaceous matrix , it is only in the proportion of -r Although these heterogeneous compounds be not attended with any changes in the chemical nature of their ingredients , yet they frequently , as has already been observed , admit of an alteration in their physical construction , and very often induce variations in such of their characters as more immediately depend upon that construction ; such as , their specific gravity , their hardness , their transparency , and even ( particularly in the class of stones ) their colour .
Hence it appears that the mineralogist cannot pay too much attention to this mode of attraction ; since , by a due application of it , he will be enabled to understand the accidental causes of the variations to which those substances are liable .
Nor should the chemist be less mindful of such an agent ; since , by neglecting that precaution , he will be constantly exposed to confound those products which really belong to the chemical composition of the substances which he examines with those which are foreign to it .
At the close of this part of the paper , the author acknowledges that the different kinds of attraction here described may be nothing more than simple modifications of one and the same power , originally belonging to matter ; but he maintains , at the same time , that these modifications certainly exert as much force , at the time of their operation , as could be exerted by attractive forces that are really different .
In the third part , which treats of the different kinds of sulphuret of copper , we are first apprised of the importance of this inquiry , by the observation , that , on comparing the different characters of this substance with those of the triple sulphuret described in the first part of this paper , we shall find that the antimony and the lead , which have been generally considered as constituent parts of the last-mentioned ore , are , in fact , nothing more than accidental ingredients , introduced merely by the attraction of aggregation .
In the sequel of the paper , the author introduces an ample stock of observations and analyses respecting various cupro-sulphurets , which have been hitherto very imperfectly examined .
And first he treats of the gray tetrahedral sulphuret of copper , which is found to consist of copper , iron , and sulphur , in different proportions ; the gray copper ore , called Fahlerz by the Germans , being of the same composition .
The yellow copper ore , or Kupferkies of the Germans , appears to be double sulphuret of copper and iron , but constituting a species distinct from the gray sulphuret of the same tetrahedral form .
Among these , there is one in particular which has not yet been described as belonging to this ore ; namely , the dodecahedron with rhombic planes , which has hitherto been found only in Cornwall , and there only in small quantities , though in crystals of considerable size .
It is also shown at length wherein most of the characters of the tetrahedral yellow cupro-martial sulphuret differ from those of the octahedral sulphuret of iron .
The following question is next proposed , and strongly recommended to the future investigation of mineralogists .
As the true sulphuret of copper and the fahlerz are of a blackish gray colour , how comes it that the kind of cupro-martial sulphuret , commonly called pyritical copper , has always that brilliant yellow colour which particularly characterizes it , and which is the principal cause that leads many mineralogists to consider it as being nothing more than a martial pyrites mixed with copper ?
The solution of this difficulty , we are told , will materially contribute to ascertain the external characters of this kind of sulphurets .
The cupro-martial sulphuret , called by Werner Buntkupfererz , is a new species of this ore , which crystallizes in forms that are peculiar to it , and not at all analogous to those of the other cupro-martial sulphuret .
The ingredients , which are solely copper , iron , and sulphur , differ considerably in their proportions in different specimens .
The author desires that what he has here said may be considered merely as a cursory account of some of the sulphurets of copper , from which , however , he thinks it may be inferred , that there exists a great number of species of this substance which have not yet been described , and that many of those with which we are acquainted have not been sufficiently examined .
A general observation , which he tells us is founded upon long experience , is , that there exists a great variety of minerals which have the same substance , or collection of substances , for their basis , and are combined with the same modifying substance , but whose differences arise merely from the variety of proportions in these bases or substances .
The paper closes with an earnest exhortation to those who cultivate mineralogy , to choose for the subjects of their experiments a variety of perfect specimens from different districts , and as much as possible from different matrices ; that they make a number of comparative analyses ; and that the mineralogist and the chemist mutually sanction the operations of each other in their respective departments .

