On some Properties in Achromatic Object-glasses applicable to the Improvement of the Microscope .
By Joseph Jackson Lister , Esq. Communicated by Dr. Roget , Secretary .
Read January 21 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 187 .
] The principles on which the reflecting , and also the achromatic refracting telescope are constructed , have been recently applied with considerable success to the microscope , and have added much to the power of that instrument .
The author speaks with much commendation of the peculiar construction adopted in Mr. Tulley 's compound achromatic microscopes , consisting of a combination of objectglasses of short focus and large aperture , the curvatures of which are such as very nearly to equalise the refractions produced by each .
As the magnitude of the aperture , he observes , is valuable only in proportion to that of the pencil of light which it admits , the latter circumstance is that which chiefly claims attention ; and as it is often erroneously estimated , a method is pointed out of ascertaining it with sufficient exactness for every practical purpose .
He then enters into a detailed description of the several parts of an instrument in his possession constructed on the principles he recommends , referring to the drawings which accompany the paper .
The magnifying power may be varied at pleasure , either by drawing out the tubes containing the eye-pieces , or by substituting an eye-glass of different power , or differently combined ; and by these changes an uninterrupted range of amplification is obtained from 35 to 800 diameters .
No sensible difference as to distinctness is observable , whether the effect is produced by changing the eye-piece , or varying the length of the tubes .
The construction of the instrument admits of the utmost variation of magnifying power without the risk of losing sight of the object viewed : and every part which relates to the illumination being wholly detached from the stage , ample opportunity is afforded of rapidly moving the objects , and bringing into view a succession of them , while the light remains the same .
Minute directions are given for the employment of the instrument , and its application to various purposes ; and great stress is laid on the importance of a skilful management of the light .
In stating the results of his experience on this subject , the author takes occasion to advert to some of the sources of fallacy by which incautious observers with the microscope have so often been greatly misled .
When a pencil of rays proceeding from an indefinitely small bright portion of an object is brought to a focus by the most perfect object-glass , the image thus formed is in reality not a point , but a small circle , and will always appear as such if the eye-glass of the microscope be sufficiently powerful .
These circles have a considerable analogy to the spurious discs of stars viewed through telescopes .
Like the latter , they become much enlarged by diminishing the aperture of the object-glass ; and they are also enlarged by increasing the intensity of the illumination .
The overlapping of contiguous circles of diffusion has given rise to many fallacious appearances ; such as the spottiness which some surfaces assume , and which has been mistaken for globules .
This optical illusion has been the basis of some ingenious but visionary speculations on the intimate structure of organic matter .
The appearance , in certain directions of the light , of lines on the surface of an object , where they do not really exist , may be traced to a similar cause .
The author proceeds to describe the method he uses for measuring the dimensions of the objects viewed , and notices different test objects with reference to their affording the means of judging of the powers of the instrument .
He next enters into a review of the comparative merits of various microscopes constructed by Cuthbert and Dollond in this country , and by Chevalier , Selligue , Amici , Utzschneider , and Fraunhofer , on the continent .
The concluding part of the paper is occupied by the developement of a principle , from the application of which to the construction of the microscope , the author expects that a still greater extension of its powers will ere long be obtained .
He remarks , that the circumstance which limits the magnitude of the pencil of light , admissible with high powers by a single achromatic object-glass , is , that the correction for spherical aberration by the concave lens is proportionally greater for the rays that are remote from the centre , than for the central rays .
The degree of confusion in the image , thence arising , is , in similar glasses , inversely as the square of their focal lengths .
It increases very rapidly with a small enlargement of the aperture , but may be rendered much less considerable by distributing the refractions equally among a greater number of lenses of smaller curvature .
Hence the advantage obtained by certain combinations .
The experiments made by the author have established the fact , that in general an achromatic object-glass , of which the inner surfaces are in contact , will have on one side of it two aplanatic foci in its axis , for the rays proceeding from which it will be truly corrected with a moderate aperture ; that for those proceeding from any part of the interval between these two points , the spherical aberration will be over-corrected ; and that for rays beyond these limits it will be under-corrected .
Methods are pointed out for ascertaining the situation of these aplanatic foci .
The principle here explained furnishes the means of destroying both kinds of aberration in a large focal pencil , and of thus surmounting what has hitherto been a chief obstacle to the perfection of the microscope .

