A paper was also read , entitled , " On the application of Glass as a substitute for metal balance-springs in Chronometers .
" By Messrs. Arnold and Dent .
Communicated by Francis Beaufort , Esq. , Captain R.N. , F.R.S. , Hydrographer to the Admiralty .
In their endeavours to determine and reduce the errors arising from the expansions of the balance-spring of chronometers consequent on variations of temperature , the authors came to the conclusion that there exist certain physical defects in the substances employed for its construction , beyond the most perfect mechanical form that can be given to it , which interfere with the regularity of its agency : so that however exquisite may be its workmanship , and however complete its power of maintaining a perfect figure when in different degrees of tension , yet the imperfect distribution of its component parts may give rise to great incorrectness in its performance .
Hence the balancespring not only should be made of a substance most highly elastic , but its elasticity should not be given to it by any mechanical or chemical process : as a body in motion , it should be the lightest possible ; and , as far as the case admits of , it should be free from atmospheric influence .
Glass suggested itself as the only material possessing , in the greatest degree , all these desirable properties .
Its fragility , although apparently a great objection to its employment , was found , on trial , to constitute no obstacle whatever ; for it was found to possess a greater elastic force than steel itself , and thus to admit of greater amplitude in the are of vibration .
It was first proposed to ascertain how far a glass balance-spring would sustain low temperatures ; and it was found by experiment that it resisted completely the effects of a cold as great as that of -f12 ?
of Fahrenheit 's thermometer ; thus satisfactorily removing any objection which might be brought against its use from its supposed fragility in these low temperatures .
The next object of solicitude was to determine whether it would withstand the shock arising from the discharge of cannon in the vicinity ; and its power of resisting concussions of this nature was fully established by experiments made with this view on board H.M.S. Excellent at Portsmouth .
On comparing the performance of glass balance-springs with me ?
tallic ones , when the temperatures were raised from 32 ?
to 100 ?
, it was found that while the loss in twentv-four hours in the gold spring was 8m 4s , that of steel 6m 2os , and that of palladium 2m 31s , that of a glass spring was only 40s .
These differences the authors aseribe principally to the different degrees in which the substances had their elasticity reduced by an increase of temperature .
As glass was thus found to suffer a much smaller loss of elasticity by this cause than metals , they proceeded to construct a glass balance suited to the cor ?
rection of the small error still occasioned by this cause , employing a glass disc for this purpose .
The compensation being completed , they next tested the isochronism of the glass spring , and it proved to be as perfect as any metallic spring .
Chronometers thus constructed are now in course of trial at the Royal Observatory .
In common with all other instruments of the same kind they have shown a disposition to progressive acceleration , the cause of which is but little known , but which appears to be influenced by the action of the air .

