VI .
" On the successive Action of Sodium and Iodide of Ethyl on Acetic Ether .
" By J. ALFRED WANKLYN , F.C.S. &amp;c. Communicated by Professor WILLIAMSON .
Received July 16 , 1869 .
In a remarkable paper which appeared in the Philosophical Transactions , vol. clvi .
p. 37 ( 1866 ) , Frankland and Duppa described the products obtained on treatment with iodide of ethyl of the yellow wax-like mass given by the action of sodium on acetic ether .
Besides the description of the compounds , Frankland and Duppa give a theory of their origin , * Ann. der Chem. und Pharm. vol. cxl .
p. 26 .
which theory is embodied in four equations expressive of Frarikland and Duppa 's view of the origin of the wax-like mass .
As I have already pointed out , each one of these four equations affirms the evolution of an equivalent of hydrogen by every equivalent of sodium employed .
I have shown that acetic ether does not evolve hydrogen by reaction with the alkali metals .
Equations which assume evolution of hydrogen in these reactions are therefore , in my opinion , inadmissible .
At the end of my paper in the January Number of Liebig 's ' Annalen , ' I promised to give an explanation of Frankland and Duppa 's products , which should not involve the assumption of evolution of hydrogen .
That explanation I now give .
On reference to Frankland and Duppa 's paper just cited , it will be found that the products described by them as obtained froum the " wax-like mass " and iodide of ethyl are the following : A. C8 1-14 03 , liquid boiling at 195 ?
C. , B. .
C1o HO 03 , liquid boiling at 210 ?
C. to 212 ?
C. , butyric ether , caproic ether , and also some unacted upon acetic ether , and a considerable quantity of common ethylic ether .
The history of these compounds is therefore the task set before me .
I have already shown that the direct products of the action of sodium on acetic ether are ethylat.e of sodium and sodium-triacetyl .
Nothing else seems to be produced directly .
But the excess of acetic ether , which is necessarily taken , acts on some of the ethylate of sodium , producing alcohol and acetate of ethylene-sodium in the manner described by me on a former occasion .
( Of course the extent to which this secondary action takes place will be determined by the exact circumstances of the experiment .
) We have , therefore , in the wax-like mass got by prolonging the action of sodium on acetic ether : Ethylate of sodium ... ... ... ... ... 11 -3 NaO Sodium-triacetyl ... ... ... ... ... ... C , 11H 0 Na Acetate of ethylene-sodium ... ... ... C4 H17 Na O0 Alcohol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
*1H 0 .
On the first three iodide of ethyl acts , giving iodide of sodium and organic liquids .
From the ethylate of sodium comes the common ether .
From the sodium-triacetyl comes ethyl-triacetyl , which is A-C 1-1 , 03 , having been got by Geuther from the pure sodium-triacetyl , From isolated acetate of ethylene-sodium and iodide of ethylene I have recently obtained liquid B , Co1 H,18 Og , thus : Acetate of ethylenesodium .
Alcohol .
2C4 , , NaO , + 2C , HI= 2Na I+ C , -I 0+ C0o H , , 03 .
The liquid prepared by me boiled at 212 ?
C. , and gave carbonate of baryta with baryta-water , and was identical with Frankland and Duppa 's liquid B. By the action of liquid A upon ethylate of sodium Geuther has recently shown that butyric ether is produced .
Geuther 's reaction I write thus : Acetate of ethylenesodium .
Butyric ether .
A. C , H , , , + C , H NaO = NaC2= H , C2 H3 02 +C6 E12 02 Finally , I predict that liquid B will give Caproic ether .
B. C,1 H , O3 + C , INaO = NaC , H C , 3 02 + C , I,1 0 , .

