]\gt ; 1887 .
] On a Perspective Ilficroscope .
49 Shelford and A. H. Shield .
On some points for the consideration of English Engineers with reference to the Design of Girder Bridges . .
London 1886 .
The Authors .
Trois nrico Annotazione sopra nn esemplare di Violacea . .
Venezia [ 1886 ] ; Considerazioni sul Dentex Gibbosus . .
Venezia 1886 .
Prof. T. R. Jones , F.R.S. January 27 , 1887 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks dered for them .
following Papers were read : \mdash ; ' ' On a Microscope By GEOBGE J. BURCH .
Communicated by J. RUSSELL REYNOLDS , M.D. , F.RS .
January 7 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) In 1874 the author discovered a form of microscope giving constant magnification along the optic axis , so that objects wers shown by it in microscopic perspective .
By writing for the distance between two thin lenses , he obtained for the formula of the system ; being the distance from the object to the firsb lens , and that from the second lens to the image .
Putting in this equation , three things resuIt .
1 .
represents the longitudinal magnification , becomes constant , namely ; 2 .
The lateral or angular magnification , , is also constant ; 3 .
A picture of an object so magnified , drawn with the camera lncida , when viewed from a distance times less than that at which it was drawn has the perspective to an object magnified times .
The distance at which the eye must be placed is great , but may be reduced by employing three lenses , the distance between the first and VOL. XLII .
Prof. G. F. Fitzgelald .
the [ Jan. 27 , second being , and that between the second and third If the lenses are nearly but not quite in the afocal position , greater power and a wider field may be obtained , but it is at the expense.of the penetration , which may , however , with advantage be limited to the thickness of the object .
The instrument.offers great advantages for artistic purposes , but lenses or mirrors of specially wids angle are needed for the farther development of the invention .
The optical conditions of a system of two thin lenses at varying distance apart are shown by diagrams .
In Diagram I the and of the formula employed are set off as abscissae and , and the curves ( which are rectangular hyperbolas ) drawn for several values of H. In the afocal position of the lenses the curve degrades into a line which is a tangent to all the hyperbolas at the point ) .
The locus of vertices and locus of centres of these curves being straight lines , and the hyperbolas all touching the point , it is shown that the principal foci , principal points , and equivalent focal length for any given position of the lenses can be found by rule and compasses , without drawing the curve .
In Diagram II the actual position of the lenses , their principffi foci , combined , and the principal points , and negative ( answering to the vertices of the curves in ) , are plotted down as abscissae , the values of on an enlarged scale being taken as ordinates .
III shows the same for two lenses of equal focal length .
Comparison of these two rams suggests the employment of term " " Pseudo-Principal Points\ldquo ; for those positions at which the magnitude of the image is in the constant ratio to that of the object for every value of , inasmuch as the distance from these to the principal points gives the measure of the " " penetration\ldquo ; of the II .
" " On the Thermodynamic Properties of Substances whose Intrinsic Equation is a Linear Function of the Pressure and Temperature By Professor F. FITZGEIiALD , M.A. , F.R.S. Received January 11 , 1887 .
Professor Ramsay has communicated to me that he and Mr. Young have found that within wide limits several substances in the liquid and gaseous states have the following relation connecting their pressure ( p ) , temperature ( T ) , and specific volume ( v ) , where and are functions of only .

