An Examination into the Structure of the Cells of the Human Lungs ; with a view to ascertain the Office they perform in Respiration .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Illustrated by Microscopical Drawings from the Pencil ofF .
Bauer , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 8 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p.58 .
] The authlor commences this paper by remarking that the subject of respiration has been hitherto regarded as belonging rather to chemistry than to anatomy ; but that he finds reason to believe that process to be more simple than is imagined , and more within the reach of anatomical than chemical investigation .
The present theory among chemists , he states , is , that respiration decarbonizes the blood , a volume of oxygen and nitrogen being at each inspiration received -into the lungs , and returned ; measure for measure , the oxygen only being partly converted into carbonic acid ; thus proving , as they suppose , that no part of the atmospheric air breathed is retained .
This theory he considers as satisfactory , supposing it supported by the structure of the lungs themselves , and taking it for granted that the blood requires no other change for its purification .
But when it was devised , no accurate examination of the cellular structure of the lungs had been set on foot ; and it is the object of this paper to explain their mechanism , and see how far it is fitted for the processes this theory requires .
The author began by inquiring into the circulation of blood through the lungs ; and by the aid of Mr. Russel procured injections of their veins and arteries , capable of being rendered objects of microscopic investigation by IMIr .
Bauer .
The first fact discovered was , that though an injection introduced by the pulmonary artery was found to return by the trunks of the pulmonary veins , yet , when thrown in by the veins , it does not return by the arteries .
The next fact ascertained was , that the distention of the air-cells produces an interruption between the arterial and venal circulation , the blood being carried no further than the small arterial branches surrounding the air-cells .
The author then proceeds to describe the air-cells and parts sir , rounding them , from drawings made by Mr. Bauer .
The branches of the pulmonary artery , accompanied by larger and more numerous branches of the pulmonary vein , are seen ramifying behind the internal membrane of each cell .
The latter have valves at regular intervals , and there are also numerous absorbents supplied also with valves .
The injection was found to have stopped short of the termination of the artery , and the space beyond to be filled with gas .
After this description , and after expressing his obligations to iMr .
Dollond for his improvement in the microscopes used by Mr. Bauer , the author proceeds to deduce his conclusions , which are unfavourable to the received doctrine of simple decarbonization , conceiving the structure thus developed as better adapted to receive supplies from the atmosphere , and transmit them to the heart .
He considers that the carbonic acid , detected by Professor Brand , in urine and perspirable matter , must have been formed in the blood circulating through the arteries , and have derived its oxygen from the lungs .
He considers , further , that the carbonic acid carried off in respiration , is furnished from such venous blood as has acquired it during the process of digestion ; having known on a former occasion that soon after that process has been begun , the oxygen employed in it unites with carbon .
He finally remarks that , for carrying on the functions of life , and for supplying oxygen and removing carbon , respiration is necessary , but is not required for the simple continuance of life when no action is going on ; and illustrates this opinion by the instance of the common garden snail .

