An Account of the Circulation of the Blood in the Class Vermes ofLinnaeus , and the principle explained in which it dif ; ers from that in the higher Classes .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read November 7 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 1 .
] The circulation of the blood in these animals is different from that of any other animal known to the author .
There is one point to which all the blood is brought , and from which it is again emitted to all parts of the body .
To this the author gives the name of heart , although it be not , in fact , the principal agent in carrying on the circulation , and although so small as hardly to deserve the name of ventricle .
It is situated directly in the middle line of the belly , and is that point in a vessel which comes from the head , where the rest of the blood is received from two auricles that lie above it at the back of the animal , oil on each side .
Sir Everard , after describing the unsuccessful attempts which he had made to discover the arrangement of the vessels by transparency of the body of the animal in full sunshine , acknowledges that he is indebted to Mr. Clift for the means of detecting the course of its circulation , by steeping it in vinegar , which presently coagulates the blood in the vessels , and gives it a deep black colour .
From the central point before mentioned , the artery proceeds down towards the tail , giving off branches by pairs to the bronchike as it passes , which may be termed pulmonary arteries .
From these the blood is returned to a single vein , which passes up the middle of the back to the head .
From the external situation of the bronchie , the circulation of the blood in them is readily seen , and is described not to be simultaneous in adjacent pairs of them , but successive from the head backwards .
The blood propelled forward by these toward the head , is returned from thence by the longitudinal vein along the belly to the original centre of motion .
In the mean time , another portion of the blood which has supplied the viscera and skin , is returned by two large veins that pass up on each side of the animal , and is by them delivered to the two auricles mentioned as placed in the middle of the back .
The great peculiarity in the circulation of this animal , appears to consist in the muscular structure of the branchial vessels .
Of these there are as many as thirteen pair , which appear abundantly sufficient , in proportion to the size of the animal , for the aeration of the blood , as well as for propelling it forwards .
In the Lumbricus terrestris the circulation of the blood , and the mode in which it is aerated , the author says , are very different .
A large artery passes along the belly , giving off lateral branches , and a corresponding vein runs up the back , with its branches on each side .
But the two great trunks also communicate laterally through five pair of reservoirs , filled from the vein , and emptying themselves into the artery .
On each side of the great vein on the back , are also a row of vesicles with external openings , for the purpose of aerating the blood , as shown in the drawing intended to accompany this paper .
54 , The author observes generally , respecting the Vermes of Linnaeus , that the blood is conveyed by veins to the respiratory organs , and from thence by arteries to the heart , in which they differ from fishes ; while they differ , on the other hand , from Mollusca in general , by having red blood .
The Sepia has been thought to have a circulation peculiar to itself ; but the author remarks , that it bears a close resemblance to that of the Teredo , in having two auricles which transmit the blood received from the bronchiae to the heart , but differs in this , that there are also two auricles that receive the venous blood , and transmit it to the respiratory organs .

