]\gt ; Mr. G. J. Burch .
[ Nov. 21 , into a number of independent families of equal rank .
These are based on the study of skeletal structures , known ' of anatomy , and phylogenetic relationships .
She alranges the families , according to the lines of descent demonstrated in present paper , as follows : \mdash ; Zaphrentoidean Families : Zaphrentidae , Amphiastraeidae , Turbinolidae , Stylinidae , Oculinidae , Pocilloporidae , } ) oridae , itidae .
Cyathophylloidean Families : Cyathophyllidae , Astraeidae , Fungidae .
Eupsammidae . .
' On the Calibration of the Capillary ectrometer.\ldquo ; By GEORGE J. BURCH , M.A. Communicated by Professor B. PRICE .
F.R.S. Received June 24 , 1895 .
In my papers* .
" " On a Method of Determining the value of Rapid Variations of a Difference of Potential , \ldquo ; and " " On the Time-Relations of the Capillary Elecbrometer I showed that the photographic ecord of an excnrsion of the capillary electrometer indicates electromotive changes not only qualitatively but quantitatively , even when they last too short a time for the movements of the meniscus to be completed .
The movement of the mercury commences simuItaneously with the communication to ib of the E.M.F. , and ceases the instant it is withdrawn , the velocity of the meniscus at any instant being proportional to the difference between the P.D. of the source and the P.D. of the charge in the electrometer .
For the sake of brevity , this diiference will be referred to as the Acting P.D. I showed that if an excursion is in the form of a curve , of which the abscissae are proportional to the times and ths ordinates to the acting P.D. , the acting P.D. at any instant is given immediately by the ) gent to the curve at that point ; and the method of analysis set forth in my papers was based on the dstermination of the tangent or its equivalent .
Since then the process has beon applied to several hundred photographs , most of which were taken during the research on the electrical phenomena of muscle and nerve in which I have assisted Professor J. Burdon Sanderson .
In the apparatus finally adopted the sensitive plate is fixed to one end of a need pendulum by which it is carried with velocity past a vertical slit .
The image of the capillary is thrown * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 48 , p. 89 ; and ' Phil. Trans vol. 183 , , pp. 81\mdash ; 106 .
'Physiol .
Soc. Proc June 24 , 1893 , in 'Journ .
of Physiol vol. 16 , p. 319 , and vol. 18 , p. 171 .
1895.On the Calibration of the Capillar .
Electrometer .
upon this } , so that the movements of the meniscus are recorded in a polar cnrve in which time is by the displacement , and the position of the mercury by the radius vector .
Tn such a curve , the total indicated .
is made up of two parts , viz. :\mdash ; ( A ) A part indicated by the distance the meniscus has moved from its zel.o position .
This corresponds to the scale readings of the instrument , as used for measuling a steady difference of potential .
( B ) A part indicated by the velocity with which meniscus is moving .
Tbis is proportional to the polar sub-normal to the cnrve , which can be easily measured .
The algebraic sum of these parbs represents the total P.D. of the source at that instant .
By repeating the ocess for a number of points on the , a derived curve can be drawn the actual variations of the E.M.F. passage of the plate .
Considered as a practical means of suring electromotive changes of short ration , the metl ] od set forth in my paper is open to one grave objection .
* It assumes that the time relations of the apparatus employed correspond to the formula To expect the of the electrometer to guarantee this would reatly enhance the cost of an instrument necessarily , and it would be equally fatal general adoption of the method if the experimenter had to go through a tediotls series of measurements with each new capillary .
The process of calibration which I am about bo describe is a general one , applicable to all kinds of dead-beat lments of which the excul.sions can be recorded in polar curves , and by an obvious modification applicable also to curves with ular -ordinates .
It bakes into account all " " errors\ldquo ; except overshooting , and this , in the case of the capillary electrometer , can bo got rid of by inserting a sufficient external resistance .
A point of great practical importance is that l special is needed in photographing three " " Normal Excursions " " l.equired for the purpose .
The principle of the method , so far as it reIates to the calibration of the sub-normal , which is the only diffic.ult parb , is as follows:\mdash ; Assuming that the resistance in circnit is such as to reuder the ectrometer perfectly dead-beat , we may extend the law of the time-relations of the movement to include all forms of capillary , thus : \mdash ; The ratio of the velocity of the meniscus to the diiference between the E.M.F. of the source , and that of the charge contained in { he electrometer , is constant { or any iven part of the capillar , but * ' Phil. Trans vol. , p. 101 .
Mr. G. J. Burch .
[ Nov. 21 , vary for different points along its length .
It is ired to detormine the amount of this variation .
Two normal excursions are photographeCl .
In one , the zero is below the ] of view , and the movement is directed upwards .
In the other , the zero is aised abo the field of view , by a suitable alteration of the pressure bulbs , and the connections with the potentiometer are reverse , so that the movement of the menlsc1s downwards .
The exact limits and relative position of the two excursions are immaterial so long as the capillary itself has not been shifted .
The object is to two curves in opposite directions , running right across the plate .
Let be a point on the capillaxy , the positiou of which is mined by its distance from the reference-circle , or } ) limit of the photograph , in each case .
Using to represent the acting P.D. , indicated by the ve locity of the meniscus at the point .
we may write for the upward excursion , and similarly for the downward excursion .
Let the P.D. necessary to bring the meniscus from to a point , above .
Then by the known law of the capillary electrometer is the P.D. necessary to bring the meniscus from to And the acting P.D. at is for the upward excursion , and for the downward excursion .
Subtracting , we have That is to say , in any pair oppositely directed excursions which overlap , the algebraic difference between the acting P.D. of the upward movement and the acting P.D. of the downward movement at same level is constant for all points common to both curves .
But the velocity of the meniscus at any point is measured by the polar subnormal to the curve , whence it follows that " " The algebraic fference between the polar subnormals to corresponding points upon oppositely directed excursions is if the time-relabions of the instrument agree with the formula \ldquo ; That is to say , repre- senting the subnormals to the two excursions by the letters and 'respectively , .
On the Calibration of the Capillury Electrometer .
21 With a capillary of diflerent form , this relation will no longer hold .
The velocity of the meniscus may be ifferemt , for the same acting P.D. , at the points and .
But the value of the subnormal at is at once given by the formula The constant is most conveniently determined by measuring the subnormal at the point on a raph in which a normal excursion of known value starts from a zero point within the field of view .
PRACTICE OF THE METHOD .
It may be convenient to describe briefly the entire process of calibrating an electrometer .
In order to ensure that the tube shall always occupy the same position , the image of the tip of the capillary is adjusted to a mark on the back of the exposing shutter .
It is of course not perfectly in focus , but is sufficiently sharp for purpose .
This mark serves for all experiments with the same capillary .
Calibration of the Readings .
millimetre scale on glass is fixed to the focussing screen so that its zero coincides with the upper limit of the slit .
The slit and tho cylindrical lens are then removed , and the image of the meniscus adjusted to zero on the scale .
The E.M.F. necessary to bring the mercul'y down to 5 , 10 , \amp ; c. , mm. on the glass scale then measured wich a potentiometer , care beiog taken to short-circuit between each observation lest the zero alter .
With very delicate instruments , or if the pressure tubes are not air-tight , it is sometimes easier to measure the length of the excursion produced by a small constant P.D. in arious parts of the tube , and obtain the value of the scale-readings by calcuIation .
Calibration of the Subnormal .
Two normal lrsions in opposite directions are photographed .
be large enough to traverse the full length of the slit during the passage of the plate , but not much more , otherwise the curves will be too steep for accurate measurement .
A non-inductive , non-polarisable resistance of at least 10,000 ohms be included in circuit .
The subnormals to these curves are then measured at points 5 , 10 , 15 , \amp ; c. , .
from the reference circle .
As an illustration I give results obtained with an electrometer which had been in use for a long time .
The tube had been caliMr .
G. J. Burch .
[ Nov. 21 , brated by the old method , but had become " " sticky\ldquo ; at its besb part , and the was therefore applied to the portion below the obstructions and extending beyond the region of equal sensitiveness .
from t The fourth column shows the initial velocity of tho excur , sion caused by the same difference of potentia ] , for seven equidistant positions of the meniscus .
But the exact valne of this difference of potential is unknown , because the zero-positions of the excursions are not recorded .
A third photograph is therefore taken in order to determine value in volts of a centimetre of the subnormal at some one of he positions in the table .
To do this , the potentiomeber is set accurately to give some known P.D. The zero point of the meniscus is brought about 30 mm. below the reference circle , and the excursion is directed upwards .
The subnormal to the resulting curve is measured at a point 25 mm. rom the reference-circle , i.e. , in the middle of the available space .
It would be difficult to make the excursion start from the 25 mm. , and besides it is easier to place the tangent-line accurately against the curve at a point some distance from its origin .
* The value of the acting P.D. at the point measured is found by subtracting the P.D. corresponding to the distance through which the meniscus has risen , from the P.D. indicated by the potentiometer .
In the case quoted , the acting P.D. , at a point 25 mm. from the reference circle , was volt , and the subnormal to the curve this point was 15 cm .
*Note added , 1895.\mdash ; The shape of this curve at its origin shows whether the instrument is dead-beat or not .
If the of meniscus increases after the excursion has begun , the capillary should be rejected.\mdash ; G. J. B. 1895 .
] On the Calibration of the Capillary Electrometer .
The numbers in the fifth column are obtained from those in the fourth ] by dividing each of them by 55 .
The last , column needs no explanation .
The time spent in these photographs , and anotl ] er set nearer the tip of the tube , was about one hour , and the calibration of the scale readings and measurement of the subof both sets , was effected in an hour and a half .
The entire calibration covered mm. of the projected of the the ) partj was completely spoilt by the stickiness of the tube .
One advantage of this process is that it enables such defects to be detected by inspection .
Each mechanical obstruction leaves a mark on both cut.ves , but most on that which has the smaller subnormal .
The eftect is equivalent to a loss of time in the excursion .
The meniscus is retarded in the act of passing the point , but immediately afterwards resumes its normal velocity .
It quite possible , if ib were worth while , to measure the vork done\ldquo ; in passing a icky place .
It should be observed that if the value of the is known , the calibration of the subnormsl can be effected by means of excul'sion of known P.D. , provided that the zero-point is visible on photograph .
For the .
at any point 011 the curve can be by from the .F .
given by the potentiometer , esponding to the rise of the meniscus ; and the ratio P for a series of points , gives the calibration-cllrve of the capillary .
; was the method I employed in 1891 , but it much greater care to get couccl.dant results , and I ealised that until some simpler process could be found , few people would care to nse this metfiod of niug the value of changes of potential difference with capillary electl.ometer .
Note.\mdash ; Professor inthoven , in a published in reconl1nends that in an , care should be taken that ib is of equal sensitiveness throughout the working portion of the tube , and assumes that such a is a sufficient criterion of its fitness for Tbis I have not found to be the case .
A constant subnormal is always with a slight increase of seusiti eness towards the tip of the capillary .
More recently he has put a statement having a very important bearing on this problem .
He now finds in some electrometers the atio of the velocity of the meniscus to the acting P.D. is not constant , but diminishes as the mel.cul.y approaches its position of resb .
In such cases he proposes to construct a of Archiv fur die Ges .
Physiologie , ' vol. ) , p. 528 .
' Archiv fur die Ges .
Physiologie , ' vol. 60 .
pp. 91\mdash ; 100 , 24 On the Calibration of the Capillary Electromet .
[ Nov. 21 , constants representing the variations of this ratio for different values of the acting P.D. It is hardly necessary to point out that this is quite a different thing from my " " calibration curve which relates to the variation of the time-relations at different parts of the same capillary .
With regard to Professor Einthoven 's observations , I can only say that I have not met with the phenomenon save in " " sticky\ldquo ; electrometers ; and in such cases minute irregu ] arities are plainly visible on the curves , when the plates are driven fast enough .
But the rate I employ for physical investigations , namely , from 1,000 to 1,500 mm. per second , is so many times greater than that used in the examples be gives , , 20 to 25 mm. , that I am able to detect what would otherwise be invisible .
His instruments wouId appear to be much less rapid and less sensitive than most of mine , but he uses a higher magnifyiug power for the projection .
The actual distance traversed by the meniscus itself in making the excursion , of which the analysis lvas in my paper , fifteen times as great as that traversed by the meniscus of his electrometers in the eight excursions adduced in support of his new theory .
But although those excursions are smaller and slower , the curves are much steeper than I should deem advisable , especially as the length measured , according to his plan , is the reciprocal of the ratio to be determined .
That there musb have been either irregularities in the curves , or considerable error in the meastlrements , is manifest when , instead of taking the average values as he has done , the eight curves are reduced to a common ] , and plotted on the same sheet of paper .
One of them especially , No. 205 , diifers from all the rest in form .
By using the ymptote to the normal curve as a line of reference , Professor Einthoven introduces a of error .
The slightest stickiness may cause the melliscus to stop short of the asymptote , or an insignificant amount of overshooting may carry ib beyond , and a difference which would appear in the fifth place of decimals in estimating an E.M.F. becomes of crucial importance in calculating the time-relations of the movement .
It is for this reason that I use bhe upper limit of the photograph as a reference circle , and reckon the displacement of the meniscus from its zero-position .
have , since reading Professor Eintboven 's paper , again calibrated , by both the methods described in this communication , the eIectrometer in use in the Physiological Laboratory at Oxford .
Both calibrations agree , proving that the instrtlmenb shows no trace of the peculiarity mentioned by him .
Should I detect it in any future electrometers , I will not fail to communicate the fact to the Society .
* ' Philosophical Transactions , ' vol. 188 , , p. 95 .

