I. " Researches on Silica .
" By Colonel PHILIP YORK , F.R.S. Received March 25 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) This communication is principally devoted to an attempt to determine the formula of silica , and to the relation of some remarkable results obtained in this research .
After giving some account of the grounds on which the three different formulas now in use among chemists ( viz. SiO , SiO2 , and SiO ) had been advocated , the author proceeds to state , that it appeared to him that the direct method which had been followed by Rose deserved the preference .
This method consists in determining the quantity of carbonic acid which is displaced from excess of an alkaline carbonate in fusion , by a given weight of silica .
The number 22 being the equivalent for carbonic acid on the hydrogen scale , the equivalent of silicic acid is obtained by the proportion x= 22 x weight of silica used weight of carbonic acid expelled Four experiments are detailed , made with carbonate of potash , which give as a mean result the number 30'7 for the equivalent of silica .
This agrees with the formula SiO2 , and nearly with the previous results of H. Rose .
Then follow seven experiments made in a like manner with carbonate of soda , which give as a mean result the number 21'3 as the equivalent of silicic acid-a number agree45-2 ing nearly with half that represented by the formula SiO3 , or 2 Some experiments are then related , which go to show that the increased loss resulting with carbonate of soda could not be caused by the action of heat alone.-The author had next recourse to carbonate of lithia , and obtained as the mean result of four experiments with this substance , agreeing well together , the number 14 99 --a number which accords very closely with the formula SiO .
These different numbers , obtained with silica , led the author to inquire whether any other body acting as an acid produces similar results with the fused carbonates of potash and soda .
With this view , experiments mere made with dry sulphate of magnesia , as a substitute for sulphuric acid , with bi-borate of soda , for boracic acid , with alumina and sesquioxide of iron .
Of these bodies only boracic acid gave results similar to those obtained with silicic acid .
The other substances all gave the equivalent numbers usually assigned to them , equally with the carbonates of potash and soda .
Directing his attention then to determine whether the equivalent of silicic acid could be found in other volatile acids than the carbonic , the author relates some experiments made with the hydrates of potash and soda , but he explains that there are circumstances which refnder it much more difficult to obtain accordant numbers with these bodies than with the carbonates .
Six experiments made with hydrate of potash gave as mean result the same number as that obtained with the carbonate , viz. 30-8 .
But with hydrate of soda the mean of three experiments gave the number 17'2 as the equivalent of silicic acid , -a result approaching that previously obtained with carbonate of lithia .
A silicate of soda was formed by fusing together silica and carbonate of soda , in proportions indicated by the previous experimentsi .
e. 23 silica to 54 carbonate of soda = 31 soda .
The fused mass was crystallized .
It was dissolved in water , and the solution evaporated in vacuo yielded a crystallized salt , which contained about 5 per cent. of carbonate of soda ; when this , calculated as the ordinary 10-hydrated salt , was subtracted , the silicate agreed nearly with the formula NaO .
SiO2+ 7HO .
A crystallized salt of like composition was obtained when hydrated silica was dissolved in a solution of caustic soda , the silica and soda being in the same proportions , i. e. 31 : 23 .
In these experiments it appears , therefore , that in the process of solution and crystallization a portion of soda is extruded .
When exposed to a temperature of about 300 ?
F. , nearly all the water was driven off from these salts , less than 1 per cent. remaining .
The fused silicate of lithia in like manner , when treated with water , appeared to split up into different compounds .
After guarding himself from drawing any decided inference from the experiments recorded , the author concludes by observing that at present he can see no alternative but to admit of more than one equivalent for silicic acid ( that is to say of more than one acid ) , the value of which is determined by circumstances , -such as the presence of water and the nature of the base to which it is presented .
The existence of such different silicic acids has been already suggested by chemists on different grounds , particularly by Ebeiman and Laurent , and lately by M. Fremy .

