152 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On the Production " Dark take up a special arrangement like the disposition of molecules magnetised rod .
It is seen that in this case the rotations of t direct and the reflected rajs are in the same direction , and fc resultant rotation is therefore doubled .
There is some * anZ between the action of such polarised molecules and of substaiB which , when placed in a magnetic field , rotate the plane of nX isation .
1 tt * On the Production of a ' Dark Cross ' in the Field of Electrc magnetic Radiation .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A D.Sc .
, Professor of Physical Science , Presidency College Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh FR8 Received February 14 , \#151 ; Read March 10 , 1898 .
A mrcular piece of chilled glass when interposed between crossed ^lP7tUCe8v-dark Cr'SS- A 8imilar effect is produced bj prdtl ptnes " ^ disP'sifcion * electeW 2 ?
?- able , t0 detect a simiIar Phenomenon in the field of between th ia 10n y the in^erposition of an artificial structure between the crossed polariser and analyser .
Tyrodnn*r\ vT Ti .
PreV^ous c^mmunication described the polarisation iQ st .
' eaves a ^''^* For the following experiment , a I " " , 'f PaPer was ro11^ into a disc .
A roll of Morse 's tap .
and its th ' ParPosa Vf-rY well .
The diameter of the disc is 14 cut Zlle Jt T Xt Wi " be 'bserred tha ' ^ we have a though the o^teare Sipped ?
plan"^ " d tha ' Pr'du^d hJ the interposition of the structure may be thffiid C Plng : dr fiXed and exPloril , g the different parts 3 fixed InnLt Tr 'f ^ deteCtor ; 'r the Sector may be kept that the different part " o^th 7 ^ may b\#174 ; mOVed about S ' act on the detector This 1 H 8QCCessivelJ be brought to in practice .
Ths latter Plan was adopted as being simpler paper '^On^th^R^ f .
the .
aPParatns is the same as in fig. 1 of my by a Twisted Structure^ ^The^l^ P ' !
arisation of EIectric Waves borizonffll TL j- 6 P'-^aris\#174 ; r IS vertical and the analyser its Zneat Jt papr dlB ' " inferposed between the screens with TherlZ 1 , gbtr\#171 ; , eS * ' the direction of the ray .
1 call the .
1S .
Xedon the Prolongation of the line ( which I shall On the t ' 1 re l 'entreS 0f the Polariser and the analyser .
I dark e\#153 ; 7tTP ' \thf the int\#171 ; position of the disc produces a ark cross , the arms of the cross ( with the particular arrangement I Cross " in the Field of Electro-magnetic Radiation .
153 the polariser and the analyser ) will lie in the projections of the rtical and the horizontal diameters of the disc , and will move in ace with the movements of the disc .
When the centre of the disc on the axis the intersection of the cross will be superposed on the ceiver , and there should then he no action .
If the disc be moved d and down , the centre remaining in the vertical line passing irough the axis , the vertical arm of the cross will slide over the iceiver .
If the disc be moved laterally , with its centre in the orizontal line passing through the axis , the horizontal arm of the ross will slide over the receiver .
In this , as in the last case , there rould be no action on the receiver .
But if the disc be displaced d that the centre does not lie in either the horizontal or the vertical no passing through the axis ( the axis now cutting the disc at points uch as a , b , c , or d ) , the arms of the cross will not fall on the eceiver , and there should be a response in the receiver .
The experiments were now arranged as follows : The disc was at rst placed with its centre on the axis , the plane of the disc being A a .
| :-f ill ; \#166 ; B Fig. 1.-\#151 ; The paper disc .
A33 , CD are the vertical and horizontal diameters .
perpendicular to the axis .
There was now no action on the receiver ; but as soon as the disc was tilted , however slightly , an action was immediately produced on the receiver .
The disc was now mounted on a stand , between the two screens .
By means of sliding arrangements the disc could be raised or lowered , or moved laterally .
In the next experiment , the centre of the disc was first adjusted on the axis , and the disc moved vertically up and down .
No effect was produced when this was being done .
The centre of the axis was again adjusted on the axis , and the disc moved laterally on the horizontal slide .
In this case , too , there was no action .
By adjusting the vertical sliding rod the centre of the disc was next placed vertically above or below the axis .
The disc was then moved laterally either to the right or to the left .
In this way the 154 " Dark Cross " in the Field of Electromagnetic Radiation .
I 'm .
2.-The holder for the disc .
D , the paper disc .
Y , L are the vertical and horizontal slides .
field could be displaced , and the quadrants , c , or d ( see fig. 1 ) placed opposite to the receiver .
In all these cases , even with small displacements , very strong action was produced on the receiver .
From experiments carried out in the manner described above , the outline of a dark cross projected in space was distinctly made out .
| A disc of wood , with concentric rings , would probably show the effect equally well .
I shall in a future paper send an account of the action of crystals cut perpendicular to the axis placed in convergent or divergent beams of electric radiation .
Some of the investigations on the rotation of the plane of polarisation will , perhaps , be facilitated by an observation of the rotation of the cross .
By a modification of this method I am at present trying to detect the rotation produced in a magnetic field .
Addendum , 16th March , 1898 .
The production of a dark cross can also be demonstrated by interposing between the crossed polariser and analyser concentric rings of^ tin-foil mounted on a thin sheet of mica .
But greater interest is attached to the exhibition of the phenomenon by double re racting substances , where the axes of elasticity are disposed in radial diiections .
From the peculiar stresses present , I surmised t at woody stems with concentric rings would exhibit the phenomenon above described .
Through the kindness of Dr. Prain , I obtained from the Government Botanical Gardens , Sibpore , stems of PinvM ongifolia , Swietenia viahogani , Araucaria Cunninghawiii , Jblangifera , %ndica , Gasuarina equisetifolia , Gupressus torulosa and Dalbergia sissoo .
The ring systems present in some of these were very regular , Relations between Marine Animal and Vegetable Life .
155 was , however , at first disappointed in failing to obtain the results iticipated .
But this failure , I subsequently found , was due to the -neral opacity of the wood which was freshly cut , and which , iough apparently dry , contained large quantities of sap m the terior .
I then carefully dried some of the specimens , when the resses present became quite apparent by numerous cracks starting l radial directions .
The results obtained with these dried specimens ere quite satisfactory .
^ , I now tried to devise some experiments strictly analogous to the ptical experiments with chilled glass .
For this purpose I cast a ylinder of paraffin wax in a metallic mould surrounded by a freezing iixture .
Owing to the great contraction produced by solidification , hollow depression was formed in the centre , and this produced a listortion of symmetry .
It would , therefore , be better to build up a ylinder by successive dippings , the deposited molten layer contract-ng on the solid core .
I obtained , however , extremely good results with a cylinder of cast ebonite , in which the stresses present are ixactly similar to those in a circular piece of unannealed glass .
The next series of experiments were undertaken with mineral ipecimens .
I here acknowledge with thanks , the kind help I received crom Mr. Hayden , B.A. , and Mr. Blithe , of the Geological Depar -ment , in obtaining suitable specimens for my experiments .
no ?
ery interesting specimen obtained from Egypt was formed by ringed concretion of flint round a central nodule .
This specimen exhibited the cross with great distinctness .
I also obtained faiily satisfactory results with stalactite .
The concretion of calcium carbonate formed inside a pipe by deposits from temporarily hard water flowing through it , would also be found to exhibit this phenomenon .
" The Relations between Marine Animal and Vegetable Life .
" By 11 .
M. Vernon , M.A. , M.B. Communicated by Professor Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received December 8,1897 , Read January 24 , 1898 .
( From the Zoological Station , Naples .
) ( Abstract.)* The object of this research was to determine how the nitrogenous matter excreted by marine animals into the water is removed , and what parts the various forms of vegetable life play in the process .
Thus this subject is of interest from its practical bearing on questions relating to the efficient maintenance of marine aquaria , as well * The full paper will be published in the ' Mittheilungen aus der Zoologisclien Station zu Neapel .
'

