" His Royal Highness the President has received from Professor Gauss the abstract of a paper read by him at the meeting of the Royal Society at Gottingen , on the 15th of December last , entitled ' Intensitas vis magneticaz terrestris ad memuram absolutam revocata .
' Mr. Gauss 's views possessing considerable interest , His Royal Highness is desirous that they should be made known to the Fellows of the Royal Society ; but as the original paper will not be printed for many months , and the abstract which appeared in the Gottingische gelehrte Anzeigen is in a language not generally understood in this coun ?
try , His Royal Highness has requested your Foreign Secretary to translate it ?
and I am commanded to desire your Secretary to read the same to the present meeting .
" In deviating thus far from the usual routine of the business of the Royal Society , His Royal Highness is actuated by a wish to promote the reciprocal and early communication of new and important discoveries and views in science , between our own and the other Societies of Europe , devoted , like this , to ?
the improvement of natural knowledge.1 " Communications of this nature , however , cannot of course be admitted into your Transactionsbut the publication , from time to time , of your Proceedings , affords a happy means of giving them general circulation j and thus the rapid propagation of much valuable information will be effected , which otherwise , if not absolutely lost to us , would , at least , long remain unknown to the British scientific public .
" The following is the abstract of Professor Gauss 's Memoir : ?
Of the three elements which determine the manifestation of terrestrial magnetism in a given place , viz. Declination , Inclination , and Intensity , the first soonest engaged the attention of philosophers , the second much later , and the third has only at a very recent period become an object of investigation and experiment .
This progressive interest is chiefly to be accounted for by the circumstance , that while the variation of the compass offered the greatest interest , as applied to the purposes of navigation and geodesic operations , the dip was looked upon as more nearly allied to it than was the intensity of terrestrial magnetism .
To the natural philosopher , those three elements are absolutely of the same import , inasmuch as our knowledge of the general system of terrestrial magnetism will ever remain imperfect , until an equal share of attention has been bestowed on its separate branches .
For the first light thrown upon this subject we are indebted to the Baron Humboldt , whose attention was particularly directed to it during all his travels , and who has furnished a considerable series of observations , from which the gradual increase of this intensity , from the magnetic equator of the earth towards the magnetic poles , has been deduced .
Many observers have since followed the footsteps of that great naturalist j and almost every part of the world to which , in recent times , travellers have penetrated , has furnished its quota of materials , from which already Hansteen ( to whom this branch of phi ?
losophical inquiry is under great obligation ) has been enabled to attempt the construction of an iso-dynamical chart , The mode adopted in all these observations consists in disturbing the equilibrium of one and the same magnetic needle in places the compa ?
rative intensity at which is to be determined , and in exactly measuring the duration ofits oscillations .
This duration is indeed , cceterisparibus &gt; dependent on the magnitude of the are ; but in such a manner , that however small the are becomes , it still approaches a determined limit , loosely called the duration , and to which , the are of oscillation being known , the really observed duration may easily be reduced .
The intensity of terrestrial magnetism is thus inversely proportional to the square of the duration of oscillation of the same needle , or directly so to the square of the number of oscillations in a given time ; and the result reiates to the whole force , or to the horizontal portion of it , according as the needle has been caused to vibrate , in the plane of the magnetic meridian , round a horizontal axis , or , in a horizontal plane , round a vertical axis .
It is evident that the admissibility of this method entirely rests on the assumption of the unchanged magnetic state of the needle employed .
If a properly-magnetized and carefully-preserved needle of good hardened steel be made use of for the experiments , and these do not take up too long a space of time , the danger to be apprehended from such alteration may not , indeed , be considerable ; and the observer may rest the more satisfied in this respect , if , on returningto the first place , he find the time of the vibration to be the same ; but expe ?
rience teaches ns that this result cannot by any means be calculated upon 5 neither can it be denied , that in resorting to such a proof we are only reasoning in a circle .
It was known indeed , long ago , that both the declination and inclination in the same place are far from being invariable- .
that both of them , in the course of time , undergo very considerable progressive variations , independently of those pe ?
riodical ones by which the nicety of observation is affected in different seasons and parts of the day .
It is , therefore , no matter of doubt that the intensity of terrestrial magnetism must likewise be subject to them ; indeed , the periodical diurnal variations are clearly perceptible in delicate observations .
Hence , even if , after a considerable lapse of time , the same time of vibration is again observable in a given place , we are not , on that account , warranted in ascribing this circumstance to anything butacasual compensation of the variations which the intensity of the magnelism of the earth in that place , and the magnetic state of the needle itself , may have experienced during that interval .
But even allowing the certainty of the comparative method to be only diminished to a certain degree , not entirely annulled , provided too long a space of time do not intervene , that mode , at all events , becomes entirely useless in cases where it is required to ascertain what changes the intensity of terrestrial magnetic force undergoes in a given place during a very long interval .
This question , of considerable interest in a scientific point of view , must , therefore , remain unanswered until the merely comparative method shall be superseded by one which reduces the intensity of terrestrial magnetism to unities perfectly determined and manifest , and entirely independent of the individual nature of the needles employed in the experiments .
It is not difficult to lay down the theoretical principles on which such an independent method is to be founded .
The time of oscilla ?
tion of a given needle depends on three quantities ; namely , the intensity of the terrestrial magnetism , the static momentum of the free magnetism in the needle , and the momentum of the inertia of this needle .
The last of them may readily be ascertained by suitable methods ; and thus , from the observed duration of the oscillation , is deduced , not the quantity of the intensity of the terrestrial magnetism , but the product of this quantity into the static momentum of the free magnetism in the needle .
But it is impossible to separate these two factors from one another , unless observations of quite a different kind be superadded , that involve a different combination of them ; and this end is attained by the use of a second needle , which , in order to ascertain the ratio of these forces , is subjected both to the influence of the magnetism of the earth and to that of the first needle .
These two effects do , indeed , partly depend on the magnetic state of the second needle ; but , by suitably conducting the experiments , the observer may eliminate that state , inasmuch as the ratio of both forces becomes the more independent of it , the greater the distance of the two needles from one another is assumed .
Here , however , it is obviously necessary , at the same time , to consider the position re ?
lative to the magnetic meridian , of the magnetic axes of both needles , and of that of the straight line connecting their centres , as also the magnetic state of the first needle - , all which cannot be subjected to computation unless we know the law of the force exerted on each other by two elements of free magnetism , or , in other words , with which , according as they are of the same or different denominations , they repel or attract each other .
Tobias Mayer had already conjectured this law to be the same with that of general gravitation , i. e. that the force is in the inverse ratio of the square of the distance .
Coulomb and Hansteen haveendeavouredexperimentally to confirm this conjec ?
ture ; and the fact is now completely established by the experiments detailed in Professor Gauss 's forthcoming memoir .
This law , however , only reiates to the elementary effect ; for the computation of the total effect of a magnetic body on another , as soon as the nature of the distribution of free magnetism in these bodies is accurately known , becomes a problem purely mathematical , and consequently remains dependent on their casual individual nature ; but the greater the distance , the less the influence of this individuality becomes ; and if the distance be very great , we may , cateris paribus , assume ( as indeed follows from the above principle , ) the total effect to be inversely proportional to the cube of the distance .
The product of this cube into the fraction which expresses the ratio of the effect of the first needle , and of the terrestrial magnetism on the second needle , will therefore , as the distances continually increase , tend to a determined limit .
A proper combination of observations at several judiciously selected distances will , being mathematically treated , make us acquainted with that limit , from which may be deduced the ratio of those two quantities the product of which was derived from the observed times of vibration .
The combination of both results will then obviously give those two quantities themselves .
The experiments for comparing the effects of the magnetism of the earth , and of the first needle on the second , suspended by a thread , may be conducted in two different ways ; inasmuch as the latter may be observed either in a state of motion or of rest .
The former is best effected by placing the first needle in the magnetic meridian of the second , whereby the time of a vibration of the latter is either increased or diminished , according as poles of the same or of different names are opposed to each other .
The comparison of the time of vibration thus changed , with that occasioned by terrestrial magnetism alone , or rather , the comparison of an increased with a diminished one ( under opposite directions of the first needle ) , will then readily lead to the ratio sought .
The second mode is that of placing the first needle in such a manner that the direction of its influence on the second makes an angle with the magnetic terrestrial meridian ; when the angle of de ?
viation from the meridian , in a state of equilibrium , will equally lead to the knowledge of the ratio sought .
And here , too , it is more advantageous to compare with each other two opposite deviations , under op ?
posite positions of the first needle .
The most advantageous position of this needle is along a straight line drawn through the middle of the second and perpendicular to the magnetic meridian , The first mode agrees upon the whole with that proposed some years agoby Poisson ; but the experiments , as far as we have any record of them , made by some natural philosophers with a view to apply that mode , have either entirely failed , or their results can at best be considered only as imperfect approximations .
Professor Gauss , who has made frequent trials of both those modes of proceeding , is satisfied that the second is , on many accounts , far preferable to the first .
The real difficulty consists in this , that other elements depending on the individual nature of the needles , enter , as well as the value of the limit , into the influences observed .
That effect is represented by a series which proceeds by the negative powers of the distance , beginning from the third j where , however , the following terms become more considerable as the distance is smaller .
Now those following terms are to be eliminated by means of several observations ?
but a slight acquaintance with the theory of elimination easily eonvinces us that unavoidable errors of observation will never fail to endanger the exactness of the results , as the number of co-efficients to be eli ?
minated is greater ; so that their number need not be very considerable to render the results of computation entirely useless .
No pre ?
cision , therefore , in the results can be expected , unless such considerable distances are employed as will make the series rapidly converge , and a few terms of it sufnce .
But in this case the effects themselves are too small to be determined with exactness by our present means of observation ; and thus the ill success of the experiments hitherto made is readily explained .
However easy , therefore , in theory the methods of reducing the intensity of terrestrial magnetism to absolute unities may appear , yet their application will ever remain precarious until magnetic observations have attained to a much higher degree of precision than they have hitherto possessed .
It is with this view that Professor Gauss has followed up several ideas long ago entertained by him relative to the improvement of our means of observing ; confidently expecting that magnetic observations will , ere long , be carried to a degree of perfection nearly , if not altogether , equal to that of the most deJicate astronomical observations .
The expectation has been answered by the result .
Two apparatus fitted up in the observatory of Gbttingen , and which have been employed for making the observations , of which several are given in his memoir , leave nothing to desire but a suitable locality completely secured from the influence of iron and currents of air .
The following short abstract from the detailed description of the two apparatus and their effect , given in the memoir itself , will no doubt beacceptable to naturalists interested in this kind of research .
Professor Gauss has generally employed needles ( if prismatic bars of such strength may be designated by that name ) of nearly a foot in length , weighing each about one pound .
They are suspended by an untwisted thread of 2~ feet in length , composed of thirty-two threads of raw silk , and thus able to carry even double that weight without breaking .
The upper end of the thread is tortile , and the degree of torsion is measured by means of a divided circle .
To the south or the north end of the needle ( according as the locality renders either the one or the other more convenient ) , a plane mirror is fixed , the surface of which , by means of two adjusting screws , may be placed per ?
pendicular to the axis of the needle ; but scrupulous attention need not be paid to this adjustment , as any deviation may most exactly be measured by the observations themselves , and taken into account as errors in collimation .
The needle thus balanced is enclosed in a wooden cylindrical box , which , besides the small aperture in the lid for the passage of the thread , has a larger one in the side , which is rather higher and wider than the mirror already mentioned .
Opposite to the mirror , a theodolite is placed , the vertical axis of which is in the same magnetic meridian with the thread of suspension , and at a distance from it of about sixteen Parisian feet .
The optical axis of the telescope is placed rather higher than the needle , and in ?
clined in the vertical plane of the magnetic meridian , so as to be directed towards the centre of the mirror on the needle .
To the stand of the theodolite is fixed a horizontal scale of four feet in length , divided into single millimetres : it makes a right angle with the magnetic meridian .
That point of the scale which is situated in the same vertical plane with the optical axis of the telescope , and which , for the sake of brevity , may be denominated the zero point , is marked out by a fine thread of gold depending from the middle of the objectgiass , and charged with a weight .
The scale is fixed at such a height that the image of a portion of it is seen in the mirror through the telescope , the eye-glass of which is adjusted accordingly .
At the opposite side from the needle , in the same vertical plane , and at a distance from the telescope equal to that of the image , a mark is fixed , serving every instant to ascertain the unchanged position of the theo ?
dolite .
It is obvious , that if all these conditions be fulfilled , the image of the zero point on the scale will appear exactly on the optical axis of the telescope , and that , so far as an object of known azimuth is visible at the place of the theodolite , we may , by means of this instrument , immediately find the absolute magnetic declination .
If , on the other hand , those conditions are only partially fulfilled , then , generally speaking , the image , not of the zero point , but that of another point of the scale , will appear on the optical axis ; and if the horizontal distance of the scale from the mirror have been measured with exactness , it will be easy to reduce the amount of the divisions of the scale to the corresponding angle , and thus to correct the result first obtain ?
ed. By turning the needle in the stirrup ( so that the upper surface becomes the lower ) , the amount of the error of collimation of the mirror may be ascertained with great ease and precision .
In both the apparatus , one part or division of the scale is equal to nearly twentytwo seconds ; an interval which even the least practised eye may easily subdivide into ten parts .
By this mode of operating , therefore , the direction of the needle and its variations are determined with the greatest possible precision .
It is by no means necessary always to wait till it is at rest ; as the two elongations to the right and the left may be observed with great accu ?
racy , and their combination , properly managed , will indicate the cor ?
responding point of rest with equal precision .
During the antemeri1/ 2 dional hours , when the daily variation is most rapid , this may be followed almost from one minute of time to the other .
Of equal importance is this mode of proceeding for observing the duration of the vibrations .
The passage of the vertical thread in the telescope before a fixed point of the scale ( properly speaking , the reverse is the case ) , may , even if the whole deviation only amount to a few minutes , be observed with such a degree of precision as never to leave any uncertainty amounting to the tenth of a second in time .
The considerable duration of a vibration ( about 14 seconds in the most intensely magnetized needles ) , and the slow degrees by which the are decreases , are productive of other important advantages : only a few vibrations are required to enable us to determine the time of one vi ?
bration with such accuracy , that , though the needle be left to itself for one or even several hours , no doubt will remain on the mind of the observer as to the number of oscillations performed during the interval of his absence .
We may commence with vibrations so small ( such , for instance , as those with which we generally leave off , ) that the reduction to infinitely small vibrations becomes almost imperceptible ?
and yet , after an interval of six and more hours , the vibrations are still found sufficiently great to admit of having their beginnings observed with all requisite precision .
In cases where anomalies still appear in the observations ( which , however will prove so trifling , that with the common means they would have been altogether imperceptible , ) they are solely to be ascribed to the current of air which , in the locality where the experiments were made , could notbe altogether avoided .
To remedy this inconvenience the aperture of the box might be closed by a plane glass - .
but none perfectly true was within the author 's reach , neither could it have been made use of without an inconvenient loss of light .
To the enumerated advantages of this method another may be added , which is , that the observer constantly remains at a great distance from the needle , while in the old mode of proceeding his proximity to it was unavoidable ; so that , even if enclosedin a glazed case , it was exposed to the disturbing influence which might be ex ?
erted upon it by the warmth of the body , or that of the lamp , by the iron or even the brass which the experimenter might happen to carry about him .
The advantages of stout heavy needles over those of diminutive size , which have been made use of for most magnetical observations , particularly those relating to the time of vibration , are dwelt upon by Professor Gauss ; he has since successfully employed one weigh ?
ing upwards of two pounds , and expresses his conviction , that if needles of from four to six pounds in weight were used , on which slight currents of air would cease to exert any perceptible influence , magnetic observations might attain an exactness and precision unsurpassed by the most delicate astronomical observations .
Much stronger thrcads would indeed be required tor suspension , the torsion of which would produce greater reaction ; but whatever the strength of the thread may be , the force of torsion must always , and may without any diffi ?
culty , be taken into account with the greatest exactness .
The two apparatus may likewise be made use of for another purpose , which , though not immediately connected with the principal subject of the memoir , may still be adverted to in this place .
They are the most sensible and convenient galvanometers both for the strongest and weakest energies of the galvanic current .
To measure the strongest , it is only required to bring the conducting wire single , and at a considerable distance ( at least several feet ) , into the magne ?
tic meridian below or above the needle ; for very weak energies a multiplier is wound round the box containing the needle .
Some of the experiments were made with a multiplier of 68 circumvolutions , producing a length of wire equal to 300 feet .
No pair of large plates is requisite ; a pair of small buttons , or even simply the ends of two different metallic wires dipped in acidulated water , produce a current indicated by the movement of the image along many hundred parts of the scale ; but on using a pair of plates of very moderate di ?
mensions , the image of the whole scale , as soon as the circuit is completed , is seen rapidly to dart through the field of vision of the telescope .
It is obvious that by this method the measurement of galvanic forces may be conducted with a degree of ease and precision unattainable by the hitherto employed laborious modes by means of observed times of vibration j and it is literally true that by it we are enabled to follow fFom second to second the gradual decrease of the intensity of a galvanic current , which , it is well known , is more rapid in the beginning .
If , in addition , instead of the single , a double ( astatic ) needle is used , no degree of electro-magnetic energy will be found too small to admit of being still measured with the utmost precision .
Here , therefore , a wide field is opened to the naturalist for most interesting investigation .
Not a small portion of this unpublished memoir of Prof. Gauss is taken up by the developement of the mathematical theory ; and also by various methods peculiar to the author , such as the determination of the momentum of inertia of the vibrating needle , independently of the assumption of a regular figure ; by his experiments with a view to esta ?
blish the above-mentioned fundamental law for the magnetic effects ; and , finally , by the details of the experiments to determine the value of the intensity of terrestrial magnetism , of which last the following may be given as the results , as far as they relate to the intensity of the horizontal part of that force .
I. May 21 .
17820 II .
May 24 .
1*7694 III .
June 4 .
1*7713 IV .
June 24 ?
28. .
1*7625 V. July 23 , 24. .
1*7826 VI .
Julv25 , 26. .
1-7845 VII .
Sept. 9 .
1*7764 VIII .
Sept. 18 .
1-7821 IX .
Sept. 27 .
1*7965 X. Oct. 15 .
17860 For unities , the millimetre , the milligramme , and the second in time have been adopted .
The manner in which the measurement of the intensity has been determined by them cannot here be specified - .
the numbers , however , remain the same , provided the unity of space , and that of weight ( properly speaking , unity of masses ) , are changed in the same proportion .
These experiments vary partly with regard to the greater or less degree of care with which they were conducted , partly with regard to the places in which they were made , and to the needles employed .
The experiments VII , VIII , IX , were in every respect performed with all the precision which the apparatus in the present state admits of , and the distances were measured with microscopic exactness .
In experiments IV , V , VI , X , some operations have been performed with rather less care - , and the three first experiments are still less perfect in this respect .
The needles employed in the first eight experiments were not in ?
deed the same , but they were nearly alike in size and weight ( the latter between 400 and 440 grammes ) ; the principal needle in experiment X. weighs 1062 grammes - .
experiment IX .
on the other hand is made , with a much smaller needle ( weight 55 grammes ) , merely for the sake of ascertaining the degree of precision , which , all other precautionary means being alike , may be attained in using a needle of such small dimensions : the result of this experiment is therefore much less to be depended upon .
Experiments VII .
to X. were made in one and the same place in the observatory j the preceding ones in other places in the same observatory , and in apartments of the author 's dwelling-house .
No perfectly pure results therefore could be derived from these latter experiments , imvsmuch as the iron in those localities , and particularly in the observatory , becoming itself magnetic by the magnetism of the earth , would necessarily react upon the needle , and confound its influence with that of the terrestrial magnetism .
Such places , indeed , were uniformly chosen in which neither fixed nor moveable masses of iron were near j nevertheless , even the more distant ones may not have been altogether without their effect upon the operations .
However , on casting a look over the different results , it appears pro ?
bable , that in no one of those localities , the modification of the terrestrial magnetism produced by extraneous influence exceeds the hundredth part of the whole .
But results eommensurate to the pre ?
cision belonging to this mode can only be expected in a locality en ?
tirely free from the influence of iron .
In order to obtain the intensity of the whole force of the terrestrial magnetism , the numbers found are to be multiplied by the secant of the inclination .
Mr. Gauss intends at a future period also to treat this element according to peculiar methods ; in the mean time he merely mentions that on June the 23rd he has found C8 ? ?
22 ' 52 " with the inclinatorium of the University collection of instruments , ?
a result which , as the observation was made in the observatory , and therefore not without the reach of local interference , may possibly require to be rectified by other observations .

