1879 .
] Relation between Declination and Force .
1Y .
" On the Relation between the Diurnal Range of Magnetic Declination and Horizontal Force , as observed at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , during the years 1841 to 1877 , and the Period of Solar Spot Frequency .
" By William Ellis , F.R.A.S. , Superintendent of the Magnetical and Meteorological Department , Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
Communicated by Sir George Airy , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received April 23 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author draws attention to the long series of mag-netical observations which have been made at the Royal Observatory , under the direction of Sir George B. Airy , K.C.R. , Astronomer Royal .
Commencing in the year 1841 , the observations for a few years consisted of eye readings of the various instruments , made every two hours ; since the year 1848 the motions of the magnets have been registered by photography , according to a plan arranged by Mr. Charles Brooke , Attention is briefly drawn to the question of magnetic variations , and to the circumstance that examination of the Greenwich records shows that , in addition to the ordinary diurnal and annual changes , there appears to exist , in the magnetic diurnal ranges , an inequality of marked character , and of longer period , resembling in its features the well-established eleven-year sun-spot period .
It is remai'ked that this is not , by any means , the first time that such relation has been discussed , it being , by some investigators , considered to be already sufficiently well proved .
B , ut it appeared to the author that the long series , of Greenwich observations might be well applied as an independent test of the accuracy of the supposed relation .
For ( as regards the results^actually employed ) the observations have been throughout made on the same general plan , and with the same instruments .
The conclusion arrived at shouldl therefore be one worthy of some confidence .
The results for declination and horizontal force only are used , because , the vertical force instrument having been more than once changed , the strict continuity of the record b , y the latter instrument is somewhat broken .
The monthly mean diurnal range of declination , or of horizontal force , is taken to represent the magnetic energy of the month relatively to other months .
Two series of numbers are thus formed , each series being treated independently .
Days of unusual magnetic disturbance are omitted .
Before the numbers can be compared with sun-spot numbers , it is 44 Mr. Ellis on the Relation between Magnetic [ May 8 , necessary , in order to estimate progressive change , to treat them in some way that will eliminate tho actual annual inequality .
This is done , both for declination and horizontal force , by taking the mean of each twelve consecutive monthly values , and again the mean of each two consecutive values , giving a series of annual or smoothed means , the mean epochs of which differ by one month .
In the forty-third volume of the " Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society , " Dr. Rudolf Wolf , of Ziirich , gives a table of relative solar spot values , found by treating actual monthly numbers ( for the purpose of removing accidental irregularities ) , exactly in the same way in which the monthly magnetic numbers were treated .
The magnetic numbers and Dr. Wolf 's sun-spot numbers are thus strictly comparative , and from these numbers curves are drawn which show a remarkable similarity .
Hot only do the epochs of minimum and maximum accord , but smaller 'changes are also seen to appear in all three curves .
The epochs of minimum and maximum being tabulated , it is found that , on the average , the mean magnetic epoch fellows the sun-spot epoch by 0 27 of a year .
By another method of tabulation the difference becomes reduced to O'10 of a year .
Some other interesting details are here added .
The general circumstance that the diurnal ranges of magnetic elements are subject to an -eleven-year period , similar to that of sun-spots , being considered to be satisfactorily established , it seemed desirable to ascertain whether the more fitful changes of the phenomena in any way also correspond .
In order to make this comparison , the magnetic numbers , instead of being smoothed , as before described , were now cleared only of the average annual inequality , and compared with the actual monthly sun-spot numbers ( not the smoothed numbers as before ) .
Curves are given , founded on these numbers , and they show some very remarkable correspondences between the more rapid sun-spot and magnetic variations , especially between the years 1869 and 1873 .
It is remarked that the magnetic results appear to be sensibly improved since the instruments were placed ( in the year 1864 ) in an underground apartment in which the diurnal range of temperature is less than 1 ' .
Further inquiry seems to point to a variation in the annual inequalities of magnetic diurnal range .
This question is discussed in some detail , and the numbers and diagrams given appear to show that such variation really exists , the inequalities being increased at the time of a sun-spot maximum , and diminished at the time of a sun-spot minimum .
The following are the general conclusions supposed to be derived from the whole inquiry : 1 .
That the diurnal ranges of the magnetic elements of declination Declination and Horizontal Force .
.1879 .
] and horizontal force are subject to a periodical variation , the duration of which is equal to that of the known eleven-year sun-spot period .
2 .
That the epochs of minimum and maximum of magnetic and sun-spot effect are nearly coincident ; the magnetic epochs , on the whole , occurring somewhat later than the corresponding sun-spot epochs .
The variations of duration in different periods appear to he similar for both phenomena .
3 .
That the occasional more sudden outbursts of magnetic and sunspot energy , extending sometimes over periods of several months , appear to occur nearly simultaneously , and progress collaterally .
4 .
That it seems probable that the annual inequalities of magnetic diurnal range are subject also to periodical variation , being increased at the time of a sun-spot maximum , when the mean diurnal range is increased , and diminished at the time of a sun-spot minimum , when the mean diurnal range is diminished .
Conclusions Nos. 1 , 2 , and 3 appear to .
be sufficiently certain , but the evidence in favour of Wo. .
4 is not so decisive .
May 15 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Note on a recent Communication by Messrs. Living and Dewar .
" By J. Norman JLockyer , F.R.S. Received April 30 , 1879 .
In my paper of last December* I called attention to the importance of discussing Young 's observations of the chromospheric lines in connexion with the spectra of the metallic elements .
In subsequent .communications I have given preliminary results of this discussion so far as it has already proceeded .
Since my paper was read Messrs. Living and Dewar have , in a paper printed in the last number of the " Proceedings , " given a table which professes to state the number of times various lines in certain metals were seen by Young in connexion with certain reversal phenomena observed by themselves .
The statements , however , made in this table with regard to the * " Proceedings , " vol. xxyiii , p. 172 .

