PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
" A Research into the Elasticity of the Living Brain and the Conditions governing the Recovery of the Brain after Compression for short Periods."* By A. G. Levy , M.B. ( London ) .
Communicated by Professor V. Horsley , F.R.S. Received February 21 , \#151 ; Read March 15 , 1894 .
( From the Laboratory of the Pathological Department of University College , London .
) A. Object and Method of the Research .
1 .
Introduction.\#151 ; This piece of work was undertaken at the suggestion of Professor V. Horsley , who devised the apparatus employed , and to whom I am indebted for advice and suggestions .
In view of the great frequency of compression of the brain as a pathological condition , it seems very advisable to attempt to obtain knowledge of some of the elementary factors conditioning the physical changes in the brain substance due to mechanical pressure .
The general plan adopted was ( a ) to compress the living brain ( i.e. , the brain substance plus lymph and circulating blood ) by a given weight fora given time , to measure the amount of direct compression , and , after removal of the pressure , to measure the elastic recoil ; ( 6 ) to investigate the influence upon the recoil of varying conditions of the vascular and respiratory systems .
Finding in an early stage of the investigation that the elasticity of the brain is very far from being perfect , I was further led to investigate the conditions , vascular , \amp ; c. , which favoured more complete recovery of the brain surface to its normal level , especially after periods of prolonged compression .
The following , therefore , are records of an investigation of the * Towards the expenses of this research a grant was made by the British Medical Association on the recommendation of the Scientific Grants Committee of the Association .
VOL. LVIII .
B Mr. A. G. Levy .
On the Elasticity of the Living physical properties of the brain substance , and deductions drawn from my observations must not be immediately applied to explain the changes in the brain seen in cases of meningeal hemorrhage , tumours , \amp ; c\gt ; , because , in order to ascertain the fundamental facts , the experiments in the present case have of necessity been made with the cranial cavity open , the dura matter partially reflected , and a certain quantity of the cerebro-spiual fluid consequently drained away .
In pathological conditions the pressure is exerted in a closed , fluid-containing cavity , and hence any local compression must evoke a reaction from all parts of the cerebral environments , and all parts of the intracranial contents are at an equally exaggerated pressure .
In my experiments , the cranial cavity being opened , the influence of the cranial walls is limited , and the pressure is directly exerted upon , and principally confined to , the part of the surface compressed and the mass below it .
I may mention that I started with the generally accepted premise that the elasticity of the brain is more or less proportional to the central blood pressure , and many of my earlier experiments were performed with , the object of testing what at first sight seems an exceedingly reasonable view .
2 .
Historical Introduction.\#151 ; I have throughout my experiments taken as an indisputable fact what was demonstrated by Grashey , * viz. , that the cerebral tissue itself is practically incompressible ( in fact , its coefficient of compressibility being rather less than that of water ) , and that any reduction in volume of the living brain must therefore be due to the squeezing out from its blood vessels , lymphatics , and ventricles , of blood , lymph , and cerebro-spinal fluid .
Grashey 's experiments consisted of a careful estimation of the compressibility of the dead brain by hydraulic pressure in a delicate piezometer .
His experiments conclusively showed what had indeed been the general teaching , but he was led to make this demonstration by reason of the extraordinary assertion of Adamkiewicz^ " that the brain tissue itself bears the brunt of the diminution of the intracranial space .
The records on compression of the brain substance are numerous , and the methods employed by the investigators ( Cooper , Duret , Kahler , Pick , Leyden , Adamkiewicz , Spencer and Horsley , Dean , Hill , \amp ; c. ) are very various ; but these experiments have been arranged from the clinical point of view , i.e. , the effect of compression upon the functional activity of the nerve centres .
Some observers have noted the structural changes produced j thus , * Grashey , uUeber Himdruck und Hirncompression , " 'Allg .
Ztschr .
f. Psychiat .
, ' Berlin , 1887 , 43 .
+ Adamkiewicz , " Die Lelire yon Hirndruck und die Patbologie der Hirncompression , " ' Sitzungsbericlite d. K. Akademie , Wien , ' Band 88 , 1883 .
Brain and the Conditions of Recovery after Compression .
3 Adamkiewicz investigated the structures microscopically , and Dean* by quantitative analysis , with special reference to oedema .
I can find , however , no systematic investigation into the immediate recovery of the brain after compression .
Dean , in the course of his experiments , gave attention to the recovery after the compression by glass discs , but his observations were made by the unaided eye .
Further , the majority of his experiments , in which the brain was examined several days after compression was removed , when secondary changes had taken place , fall into another category than those which I have carried out , for in no case were my observations prolonged for more than an hour after compression , and usually the period was much shorter .
Moreover , contrary to the methods adopted by the just named observers , the influence of the cerebro-spinal fluid in the present research was excluded ; the dura matter being opened , the fluid is released from all tension , and some of it escapes during the procedure described below , my object being to investigate the change in the brain mass alone .
3 .
Description of the Apparatus for Measuring the Compression and Recovery therefrom.\#151 ; An apparatus was designed for the purpose of applying known weights vertically to the brain surface , so that the amount of depression of the surface could be accurately measured , and also the recoil after the removal of the weight .
This apparatus is shown in front and back view in figs. 1 and 2 .
It consists essentially of two supports for screwing into the skull , a plunger through the medium of which to apply the weights , and a dial to indicate the excursion of the plunger .
To consider the parts in detail : the supporting pillars consist of three portions , see fig. 1 ( a , b , and c ) .
The foot ( a ) screws into the bone , and ( b ) is a cap which screws on to it .
The two when fitted together form a socket to receive the globular end of ( c ) the pillar , which thus acts in a ball-and-socket joint , and can be firmly fixed in any position by screwing down ( \amp ; ) .
By this means the pillar may be made to assume a perpendicular position when the screw has to be inserted into a portion of the skull which is not horizontal .
The pillars support the dial through the medium of the slots ( , d ) , and are fixed by screws ( e , e ) , the slots themselves being firmly fixed in position by the thumb screws ( / , / ) .
These slots allow , among other movements , of lateral shifting of the dial .
These arrangements conveniently give great range of movement of the dial , so that the plunger may be placed into a position of accurate perpendicularity .
The plunger consists of a straight rod , carrying above a weight pan ( \lt ; / ) , and , passing through the body of the dial , it has attached to it by a special arrangement a thread which , looping round the axis * H , P. Dean , " Cerebro-spinal Pressure , " 'Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology , * 1892 .
Mr. A. G. Levy .
On the Elasticity of the Living Fig- .
1 .
of the dial , rotates this in its excursions up and down .
An index hand attached to the axis indicates tenths of millimetres on the dial .
Below , the plunger has screw arrangements ( Ji ) , by which discs ( % ) of varying sizes can he applied .
In all experiments a disc of 1 cm .
diameter was used unless otherwise mentioned , and it was by the screw attachment correctly adjusted to the surface of the brain .
The weight of the plunger was accurately counterbalanced by a weight which acts over a pulley ( y ) , so that the disc remains at rest in any position , e.g. , on the brain surface , without exerting any pressure when there is no weight in the pan .
This suspended counterbalancing weight also acted as a plumb line by which the perpendicularity of the plunger was secured , this position being essential to avoid all friction .
The figures show the apparatus applied to a horizontal surface .
4 .
Method of Experiment.\#151 ; The animal , invariably a dog , was kept under ether through the medium of a glass cannula , inserted into the trachea and attached by india-rubber tubing to a funnel , this latter being placed over cotton-wool saturated with ether .
The narcosis must be maintained equably throughout the experiment , to avoid irregularity in respiratory movements .
The head was firmly supBrain and the Conditions of Recovery after Compression .
5 ported in the usual holder .
The skull was exposed on one side , and the median and fronto-temporal ridges chiselled away as far as necessary , so as to give a flat surface for inserting the screw 's .
The skull was trephined close to , but carefully avoiding , the longitudinal sinus .
I found haemorrhage a very troublesome accident , and that it was essential to stop it by means of wax and amadou before proceeding with the experiment , as the presence of even a thin layer of blood on the cortex marred the result .
The object of applying the compression as near as possible to the middle line was to arrange the line of pressure perpendicularly downwards , so as to avoid any elastic reaction from the falx cerebri ; this seemed to be more important in using large weights , which evoke larger excursions .
I enlarged the opening in the skull with bone forceps , so as to allow of easy insertion of the plunger , and give sufficient margin to observe the condition of the brain surface .
The next step was to reflect the dura matter , insert the screws ( using a guarded bradawl to make preliminary holes ) , and then to erect the apparatus so that the disc of the plunger rested flat on the surface of the brain , and the plunger itself was absolutely perpendicular .
The blood pressure was recorded by means of a mercurial manometer connected with the femoral artery .
The respirations were traced by means of a Paul Bert receiver and a Marey recording tambour .
In performing an experiment I noted the moment of applying the weight to the pan , and then recorded the figures the index pointed to at intervals of so many seconds during and after compression , and also read off the blood pressure at stated intervals .
5 .
Considerations Affecting the Plan Experiments.\#151 ; A few remarks on special conditions observed during my experiments may now be briefly noted .
( a. ) Various conditions of the cranium and its contents , affecting the apparent elasticity of the brain , and requiring attention , are as follows:\#151 ; Adhesions of the pia matter to the dura matter , as , for instance , by vessels running from one to the other .
The Falx Cerebri.\#151 ; This is not large as a rule in the dog , often not more than 5 or 6 mm. broad in a small dog , and is not likely to have much influence , but large weights applied in a direction fairly perpendicularly to its surface might reasonably be expected to be limited in effect by its elasticity .
The Tentorium.\#151 ; This is generally almost totally ossified in dogs , but in some dogs there exists sufficient membrane to prove a factor in causing some elastic reaction from the base of the skull .
The Shape of the Cranium.\#151 ; It seems probable that the vertical depth of the skull cavity should modify results somewhat , as with a 6 Mr. A. G. Levy .
On the Elasticity of the Living deep skull a greater depth of brain substance comes directly under compression than in the case of a flat skull , but this and the foregoing conditions have but a subsidiary influence upon the effects observed , the main factor which influences the more immediate recoil of the brain surface , in experiments performed upon the organ in situ , being the rigidity of the bony floor it rests upon , ( 6 .
) Moulding.\#151 ; After a compression of thirty seconds or so there frequently results a faint ringed impression of the disc this usually disappearing in about half an hour .
After several experiments have been performed upon the same spot , a considerable saucer-like depression in some cases ensues .
( c. ) ( Edema.\#151 ; On several occasions a curious phenomenon was observed , which most probably has its origin in local oedema .
It is more especially marked in experimenting with small weights , 20 to 50 grams , applied for a couple of seconds only .
When the weight , after compression , has been removed , and the brain surface , in recovering , has ce'ased to push the disc up farther , then if the passively resting disc be removed from the surface , the latter will start a farther rise almost immediately , so that in a few minutes it may even be at a higher level than that at which it stood when the experiment was started .
After more severe compression this is not observed .
( d. ) Powerful respiratory movements , as will be shown directly , are liable to vitiate results by aiding recovery after compression , through the medium of increased venous pressure .
Hence the necessity already mentioned of maintaining a fairly deep narcosis .
( e. ) The direct effect of compression upon the blood pressure and respiration .
I found that the local compression by any weights that I employed was , in view of the cranium being freely opened , insufficient to produce any effect , either upon the blood pressure or respiration , this being so far fortunate as then could be no indirect influence from this cause upon the elasticity of the brain .
The minimum weight which can affect respiration , even slightly , was 200 grams .
B. Results of Compression Experiments on the uninjured Brain , the Blood Pressure being normal .
( a. ) Definitions\#151 ; I employ the term " uninjured brain " to denote that no previous experiment has been performed on the same brain ; the effect of previous compression in destroying the value of subsequent experiments is discussed later .
The term " excursion " I have applied to the extent to which the plunger enters into the cranial cavity ( by a reason of sinking of the brain ) on a weight being applied .
Eig .
3 ( ab ) .
Brain and the Conditions of Recovery after Compression .
7 Fig. 3 .
7min .
Z min3- Time in 15 30 4'8 $ 5*4 \**i 6-0 su Recoil By the term " recoil " I mean the amount of recovery of the brain as measured by the instrument .
Fig. 3 ( 6c ) .
( 6 .
) Results of the Experiments.\#151 ; In this section , unless otherwise stated , the weight used was 50 grams and the compressing disc 1 cm .
in diameter .
Mr. A. G. Levy .
On the Elasticity of the Living i. Excursion.\#151 ; The character of the excursion evoked by a compression of 50 grams for one minute is as follows :\#151 ; Firstly , there is a rapid fall of the index in the first few seconds ; this being followed by a very much more gradual compression ( fig. 3 ) .
So that three-fourths of the whole excursion may take place in the first two seconds .
The absolute extent of the excursion varies in different dogs very considerably ( the time of compression being equal ) ; thus the amount in one minute varied in two separate cases from 4*5 mm. to 7*3 mm. Variation in the absolute amount of depression of the brain surface is to be expected where differently shaped heads were experimented upon .
There appeared to be some relation between the size of the dog and the extent of the excursion , probably because there is in a large brain a greater depth of collapsible mass beneath the plunger .
On the other hand , it was very noticeable that the extent bears no relation to the height of the blood pressure ; in fact , it is curious that often the largest excursions accompanied a normally high blood pressure ( 'i.e .
, a well-filled , highly collapsible brain ) .
Observations were also made with a very short time of compression , such as of two seconds ' duration .
Under these circumstances the absolute excursion is notably less , viz. , 2*4 to 3*5 mm. I have already mentioned the rapidity of the development of the first part of such a curve .
The actual curve is shown in fig. 5 .
ii .
Recoil.\#151 ; The character of the recoil after one minute compression with 50 grams is well shown in fig. 3 .
As a rule it is nearly completed in a few seconds , but develops further during one to two minutes , and then usually stops .
After this point the process undoubtedly continues in many cases , but it is too gradual to record .
After half to three-quarters of an hour , the brain in most cases will be found to have resumed its normal level .
The recoil was measured at the point at which it became apparently stationary .
For convenience of expression , to denote the relation of the recoil to the compression , I employ a fraction , the numerator of which is the numerical value of the recoil expressed as unity , and the denominator is the value of the excursion compared to the recoil* Thus , where the excursion is twice the recoil the fraction = 1/ 2 ; and to the ratio I apply the term " proportionate recoil .
" The smaller the fraction the less the elasticity ; the nearer it approaches unity the more perfect the elasticity .
We are now in a position to see the degree to which the brain recovers itself after a compression of 50 grams for one minute .
The proportionate recoil is very constant , i.e. , nearly 1/ 2 , in many cases almost exactly so , but varying within the extreme limits of 1/ 1*8 to 1/ 2*3 ( e.g. , fig. 3 = 1/ 1*9 , fig. 4 = 1/ 1*8 ) .
Brain and the Co7iditions of Recovery after Compression .
9 W Fig- .
4 .
- / min./ min. Qn\0 20 50405060102030405060 / min. 1 0^,10205040 506010 20 504050 60 Ex. a Blood pressure in centimetres .
Mr. A. G. Levy .
On the Elasticity of the Living If , however , the pressure be kept up for only two to five seconds the recoil is more perfect .
In fact , the immediate recoil which takes place in the first two or three seconds may give a ratio of 1/ 2 or even 1/ 1-5 ; after an interval of thirty seconds or so it may be 1/ 1*4 or even nearly 1 .
E.g. , Experiment 12a = 1/ 1*2 ( fig. 5 ) , Experiment 14a = 1/ 1*5 ( immediate ) .
Fia .
5 .
Time in Seconds .
On4 " 10 " 20 " 50 " 40 " 60 ' If the pressure he prolonged , say , for six minutes , the fraction becomes smaller , and this is shown in fig. 6 , where the ratio = 1/ 2*74 , and the surface does not further recover after a long interval more than half an hour .
Thus we see that although the elastic reaction of the brain is very fair when the compression lasts only a few seconds , longer compression affects the brain in such a fashion that it does not recover so readily .
Thus , also , we see that for the same weight and same length of compression , the elasticity is very mueh the same in different brains ; i.e.y with a large excursion there is a proportionately large recoil , and vice versa .
iii .
Results of Experiments with varying Weights.\#151 ; A few experiments performed with a weight of 20 grams show a comparatively small excursion , but the ratio is similar to that obtained with a 50 grams weight .
Weights such as 100 grams and over seem to be Brain and the Conditions of Recovery after Compression .
11 Fig. 6 .
Time in Seconds .
ifliP-m- .
5'i\lt ; -p.m .
2 ' II IQ m .m .TJU U l u Li .
r \#151 ; i J L I * / 4 \#163 ; !
i 1 1 i I ft L i L ft } f j L \#151 ; W g | fi s 0 _JSi 5 J 0 5 t f V 0 \ / L 5 t 0 / \ 5 1 $ t r 0 r i i 5 \ / \ / 0 t / \ 5 \ 7 0 \ t\#151 ; Jr. \r * kb ( b 1 .
\gt ; 1 \r / fEx.a .
Ex. b. I pomewhat prejudicial to a good reaction ; they produce a somewhat larger excursion .
[ A weight of 200 grams will gradually lacerate a dead brain .
] i-0 1-2 1-4 1- 6 j\#163 ; s 18 | 20 22^ 2- 4*^ 2-6 \#163 ; 2-8 ^ 30-3 3- 4 S 5 6 \amp ; 40 4- 2 ^ 44 4-6^ 4*8 \#163 ; 50 S C. Consideration of the Relation of the foregoing results to the Blood Pressure .
We may first take in this connexion the experiments in the series I just described , and compare the reaction to the height of the blood I pressure , to test the influence of the latter as a possible factor in the J establishment of the recoil of the brain .
( a-* ) Comparison of Experiments on the uninjured Brain in different I Bogs with individually different , hut normal , Blood Pressures.\#151 ; Below is a table of experiments performed on the normal brain in the course of which the blood pressure was measured , j It will be seen that there is absolutely no relation to be found I between the individual u elasticities " and blood pressures .
Mr. A. G. Levy .
On the Elasticity of the Living Experiment .
Time of Compression , Proportionate recoil .
B. P. 4a ... .
1 minute 1/ 18 125 mm 6a ... .
i " 1/ 1-8 ... .
105 " 7a . . .
30 seconds 1/ 1-9 ... .
110 " 8a ... .
30 " 1/ 2-2 150 " 9a ... .
30 " ... .
1/ 2 105 " 12a ... .
4 " 1/ 1-2 140 " 14a ... .
2 " ... .
1/ 1-14 ... .
125 " 20a ... .
2 " 1/ 2 120 " The most noticeable of these is Experiment 8a , in -which , although the pressure was comparatively very high , the reaction was almost at its minimum .
It is clear , then , that the recovery of the volume of the brain is not due to the pressure at which it is irrigated with blood .
Though these facts appeared to be thoroughly demonstrative , I established a number of control observations to further test the question .
The first method which suggested itself was naturally that of lowering the blood pressure very markedly by bleeding .
This procedure , however , of necessity involves the measurement of the recoil of the brain thus rendered anaemic being taken from a preparation which had already been compressed once ; this , of course , introduces an error , and hence the further question has to be considered how far does one compression experiment have an influence on a consecutive one .
When compression has lasted for thirty seconds or more it is obviously necessary to allow a sufficient interval to elapse to allow the damaged brain fairly to recover\#151 ; such an interval as half to three-quarters of an hour , sometimes more ; that is to say , I waited till the surface had regained its normal level .
Sometimes it is impossible to wait for complete recovery , and , of course , in such a case an element of error is introduced ; but when the time of compression is short , ten minutes is quite enough to allow so as to avoid any appreciable vitiation , of which fact I have satisfied myself experimentally .
( 6 .
) Comparison of Experiments performed on the same Brain before and after lowering the Blood Pressure by bleeding.\#151 ; After an experiment , conducted as above described at normal blood pressure , I bled the animal from the carotid artery .
As a rule , a large loss may occur without much fall of pressure , and the fall , when it does occur , takes place very suddenly .
If the splanchnics be previously divided , the fall takes place earlier and more regularly .
Usually I bled to the extent of 150 to 300 c.c. By this means th ere could be produced an enormous fall of blood pressure , sometimes as much as 100 mm. ( .
, from a normal presBrain and the Conditions of Recovery after Compression .
13 sure of 125 mm. down to one of 20 mm. ) .
But , under these circumstances , the fall is due to a draining of blood from all parts of the bodf , the brain included , and hence the latter begins to collapse soon after the bleeding has been started .
This collapse , however , is not always great .
Thus , in one experiment ( fig. 4 ) , after allowing the brain to recover from the trial experiment , and then bleeding 150 c.c. , the fall of blood pressure of 60 mm. thus produced only caused the brain to collapse so that its vertical thickness was reduced by not more than 2*4 mm. Of course , this collapse produces a new set of intracranial conditions , e.g. , the brain contains less fluid , and hence its texture is altered ; it does not fit its surroundings so closely\#151 ; its vertical depth is less .
These new conditions act in diverse ways as regards its elasticity .
But we cannot disregard the fact that the fall of blood pressure measured in the femoral artery is very great , and , were there any measurable direct relation between the elastic reaction and the blood pressure , this fall , especially when the brain collapse was not great , would make itself evident in spite of the altered conditions under which the second experiment has to be performed .
The following table gives the results of experiments of this kind ( p. 14 ) .
Summary.\#151 ; In Nos. 4 and 8 there is a distinct diminution in recoil .
In No. 6 the recoil is exactly the same in both experiments , and these being conducted under comparatively favourable circumstances as regards the fall of brain surface , this result is of more value than the others .
In No. 7 there is an actual increase in " elasticity .
' ' In every case the excursion is diminished after bleeding .
It will thus be seen that there is no constant relation between the fall of blood pressure and the proportionate recoil , and that in those cases in which a lowered pressure is accompanied by a lowered elasticity , the diminution is very small , and in no way commensurate with the fall .
A series of bleeding experiments , performed without registering the exact fall of blood pressure , gave results similarly divergent .
( c. ) Comparison of the Results of Experiments in which the Blood Pressure was Varied by means of Amyl Nitrite.\#151 ; It was now evident that , if possible , a method should be found of reducing or raising the central arterial pressure without causing an alteration in the level of the brain surface .
In order to do this , the blood supply to the brain must be kept up or diminished according as the central blood pressure falls or rises , i.e. , when the pressure falls the cerebral vessels should dilate , and vice versa .
Now , supposing a fall could be produced by a general vaso-motor action , brain arteries being included , here we should have the condiNo .
of experiment .
Normal Brain .
After Bleeding .
Remarks .
B. P. in mm. Proportionate recoil .
Excursion .
B. P. in mm. Proportionate recoil .
Excursion .
4 1 120 1/ 1-8 5-8 25 1/ 2 3-9 50 grams applied for 1 minute .
Bleeding to the extent of 270 c.c. No record of extent to which the brain surface sank .
6 ( Fig. 4 ) 105 1/ 1-8 5 1 1 45 1/ 18 3*8 50 grams applied for 1 minute .
Bled 150 c.c. Fall of brain surface = 2*4 mm. 7 120 1/ 2-3 5-0 30 1/ 21 2-7 50 grams applied for 30 seconds .
Bled 170 c.c. Fall of brain surface = 3*8 mm. i 8 150 1/ 2-2 5-7 62 1/ 2-47 3 7 50 grams applied for 30 seconds .
Bled 200 c.c. Fall of brain surface = 3'5 mm. Mr. A. G. Levy .
On t Elasticity of the Liv Brain and the Conditions of Recovery after .
15 tion required .
The presence of vaso-motor fibres to the cerebral arteries has been denied , or , at any rate , they have never been demonstrated ; but Roy and Sherrington* have shown that the calibre of the cerebral vessels may be altered by certain substances , notably acids and alkalies , and they consider this a direct action on the vessel walls .
It occurred to me to try the effect of amyl nitrite , and I found that I could obtain a good fall of blood pressure , whilst the .brain surface would remain at the normal level , or , if previously depressed , it would rise .
1 It is an interesting fact , and one which has a bearing on the vasomotor question just referred to , that the subsequent recovery of blood pressure is accompanied by a fall of the brain surface .
This is well shown in fig. 6 .
It is obvious from my experiments that the brain is , under the effect of the nitrite , undoubtedly flushed with blood to an extent sufficient to neutralise its tendency to collapse ; whether by vasomotor or local action on the vessel walls it matters little , as far as the purposes of my experiment go .
I see no reason to believe that the flushing is a result of increased venous pressure , this being the alternative explanation usually suggested .
I administered the drug by means of clinical capsules , one or two at a time , crushed , and placed under the ether funnel .
I thus obtained differences in the general blood pressure of from 20 to 30 mm. of mercury , and yet the brain surface remained at a constant , or nearly constant , level .
The chief .
difficulty in this method lay in the short time during which the fall lasted , thus necessitating very prompt action so as to apply the compression at the right moment .
The results of four experiments are tabulated below ( p. 16 ) .
It is seen that in each case we find that with the lowered blood pressure the elasticity is increased , markedly so in Nos. 17 , 18 , and 20 , thus still further emphasising the fact that the elasticity does not , or at any rate need not , depend on central blood pressure .
It is also seen in the experiments performed under the influence of the nitrite that the excursion is less .
Thus , then , we find a true increase of recoil under the vascular conditions induced by this drug .
D. Comparison of the Results of Experiments in which the Effect of Increased Venous Pressure on the Recoil of the Brain was Measured .
( a. ) Anatomical Considerations.\#151 ; These experiments were undertaken in view of the marked influence which variations in venous pressure are held to exert on cerebral vascular conditions .
* Boy and Sherrington , " Regulation of the Blood Supply to the Brain , " \gt ; * Journal of Physiology , * vol. 11 .
No. of experiment .
Normal Brain .
During administration of Amyl Nitrite .
# Remarks .
B. P. in mm. Proportionate recoil .
Excursion .
B. P. in mm. Proportionate recoil .
Excursion .
17 ( Fig. 6 ) 140 1/ 1-5 1-9 120 1/ 0-9 1*3 20 grams applied for 2 seconds .
The small excursion as a result of a ligh t weight is noticeable , he ratio under amyl nitrite shows that the recoil is greater than the excursion , ( See fig. 6 .
) 18 95 1/ 1*3 3-3 70 1/ 1 2-0 50 grams applied for 2 seconds .
19 105 1/ 1-6 3-2 90 1/ 1-5 3-1 50 grams for 2 seconds .
20 ( % .
7 ) 120 1/ 1-7 3-4 90 1/ 1*23 3-2 50 grams for 1 second .
K Q t-* CD \lt ; 1 o ci .
Cb C* \lt ; s\gt ; .
cs\#187 ; \gt ; \#166 ; \lt ; s\gt ; \lt ; s\gt ; .
a. Brain and the Conditions of Recovery after Compression .
17 To render this part of the paper more comprehensible , it is necessary to give a short description of the vessels providing for the outflow of blood from the dog 's skull , as their anatomy presents many points of difference from that of the human being .
The details are chiefly as stated by Ellenberger and Baum.* The greater part of the venous blood leaves the skull through the foramen magnum by route of the inferior occipital sinuses , and enters the venous plexus of the vertebral column .
The vein next in individual importance is the superior , which finds exit from a foramen situated , on either side , between the post-glenoid protuberance and the external auditory meatus .
It communicates , through the medium of the meatus , with the lateral sinus of its own side .
It is often of considerable size , and is one of the chief sources of the internal maxillary vein .
The internal jugular receives , along with other branches , the inferior cerebral vein , which runs in the carotid canal and opens into the cavernous sinus .
The internal jugular is very small , and carries away but little cerebral blood .
Running through the orbital fissures are important veins ( oph-thalmo-cerebral and cerebro-facial ) , which connect the cavernous sinuses with the external maxillary veins .
In addition to these , there are numerous emissary veins , and between all the channels of exit named there is free anastomosis .
( 6 .
) Method of Experiment.\#151 ; I exposed the accessible cranial veins , viz. , the external and internal jugulars , and internal maxillaries ; the latter I followed nearly to their termination in the superior cerebrals .
I then blocked the various veins in succession by clamps , and performed the usual experiment upon the congested brain .
To make the experiments more complete in one case , I measured the change in the venous pressure in the lateral sinus by means of a cannula inserted into one superior cerebral vein and connected with a water manometer .
Directions for dissecting out this vein are given by Gartner and Wagnerbut I always found it necessary to remove the angle of the lower jaw in addition .
In the following table I have noted the degree of elevation of the brain surface , denoting the amount of congestion following blocking of the main venous outlets .
* ' Anatomic des Hundes .
' t Wagner and Gartner , * Med. Wochenschrift , ' Wien , 1887 , Nos. 19 and 20 .
VOL. LVIII .
c No. of experiment .
Normal Brain .
Congested Brain .
Remarks .
Proportionate recoil .
Excur- sion .
Veins clamped .
Proportionate recoil .
Excur- sion .
( fS 8 ) 1/ 1-6 2-7 Both superior cerebrals 1/ 1-25 2-5 This was an experiment in which the change in the venous pressure was directly observed ; the manometer registered 6*5 cm .
in one superior cerebral , and this rose to 13 cm .
when the other was clamped .
The increase in the immediate recoil is also noticeable .
( See fig. 8 .
) 50 grams for 2 seconds .
25(a ) 1/ 1-4 4-5 One superior cerebral 1/ 1-4 4-4 50 grams applied for 5 seconds .
25 ( 6 ) 1/ 1-4 4-5 Both superior cerebrals 1/ 1-48 3-7 50 grams applied for 5 seconds .
26(a ) 1/ 1-36 3-8 Both superior cerebrals j/ i-3 3-2 50 grams applied for 5 seconds .
24(a ) 1/ 1-6 \#166 ; 2-9 Both internal jugulars 1/ 1-6 2-8 50 grams applied 5 seconds : clamping these veins does not produce any perceptible expansion of the brain .
24 ( 8 ) ( Fig. 9 ) 1/ 1-6 2-9 Both external and internal jugulars 1/ 1-4 3-8 50 grams applied for 5 seconds .
Surface ( being previously depressed ) rose 2 mm. on clamping the veins .
The recoil is measured in this case at the end of 15 seconds only , the very marked recovery of the congested brain at the end of 2 minutes being shown in fig. 9 .
25(c ) 1/ 1-4 4-5 Both external jugulars 1/ 1-4 4-1 50 grams for 5 seconds .
Brain surface rises 1*8 mm. 26(6 ) 1/ 1-36 3-8 Both external jugulars 1/ 1-4 3-9 Surface rises 1*6 mm. 50 grams applied for 5 seconds .
Mr. A. G. Levy .
On Elasticity th Brain and the Conditions of Recovery after Compression .
19 Fig. 7 .
Time in Seconds .
\#163 ; n-5 Ex. i-o 1- 4 1*6 1-8 20 2- 2 2- 4 2-6 2-8 30 3- 2 54 3-6 3- 8 40 4- 2 4-4 4-6 4- 8 50 5- 2 5-4 5-6 5- 8 6- 0 6-2 \#171 ; o Thus we see that , out of three experiments ( 246 , 25c , and 266 ) in which both external jugulars were blocked , in only one ( viz. , 246 ) is there an appreciable increase in recoil .
( In this case , to be sure , the internal jugulars were also included , but , in the light of experiment 24a , I cannot believe that these insignificant veins are a factor worth considering .
) Experiments 25a , 256 , and 26a show no increase of elasticity on blocking one or both superior cerebrals in any one of the cases , and hence are in strong contrast to 23a , in which the increased recoil is quite noticeable .
This last experiment is also of importance , from the fact that the rise in venous pressure accompanying the increase in elasticity was actually measured , and it shows what a very considerable rise in the pressure ( double the normal in this case ) is necessary to influence elasticity at all , and is an indication of how far we may disregard the effect of small changes of venous pressure as factors vitiating results set forth in former sections of this paper .
c 2 20 Mr. A. Gr .
Levy .
On Elasticity of the Living Fig. 8 .
$ 22 C 2-4 t min9 Qq55 15 .
1-8 ^ 4-4 / Ex. a. Ex. b. Brain and the Conditions of Recovery after Compression .
21 Experiments 25c and 266 show that a venous congestion of brain !
( as indicated by its expansion ) is not necessarily accompanied by an [ increase of elasticity .
The failure to obtain changes in elasticity in every case must , I think , be attributed to the variation in calibre of the various channels of outflow , chiefly , probably , as regards the communications with the vertebral plexus ; the common occurrence of variations in the size of the superior cerebral is patent after a few dissections .
i E. Experiments illustrating the Influence which varying Vascular Conditions have in Restoring the Volume of a Brain which has undergone Prolonged or Severe Compression .
( a. ) Influence of a Rise of the General Blood Pressure.\#151 ; After the brain has been compressed as described for six minutes , the elasticity , as before mentioned , is considerably reduced , and the brain surface continues depressed for a long period .
If now the etherisation be diminished , the blood pressure may be caused to rise gradually , but considerably , without anything more than a com-i paratively insignificant rise in the level of the brain surface accom-| panying it ( see fig. 10 , in which the blood pressure rose 35 mm. in I the space of 12 minutes ) .
Thus we find a notable difference in [ the reactions of normal and compressed brains to increase of blood pressure .
As is well known , in the uninjured brain the surface I rises and falls concurrently with variations in the.blood pressure .
( 6 .
) The Influence of Venous Congestion produced by Asphyxia.\#151 ; In I cases of pi'olonged or severe compression the brain surface may nearly always be made rapidly to recover by inducing asphyxia In an experiment ( fig. 11 ) the brain had been severely compressed by repeated experiments on the same spot , so that the recoil was small and had become stationary in one minute .
A rise of blood pressure of 30 mm. , induced by diminishing the degree of etherisa-I tion , had no appreciable effect , but total recovery rapidly supervened with the development of asphyxia .
This recovery cannot be I ascribed to the rise in the general blood pressure induced by the asphyxia ( in this case only 10 mm. , which contrasts with the 30 mm. 1 produced by diminishing the ether supply ) .
This is also borne out by the fact that the recovery of the surface may be obtained when there is no rise of the blood pressure , as sometimes occurs during asphyxia , or the expansion may actually progress whilst the blood pressure is in its stage of fall .
Frequently the surface commences to recover when the asphyxial gasps are at their strongest , but recovery will go on when the respirations are small or even when they cease , as they will sometimes , / directly the trachea is clamped .
Mr. A. G. Levy .
On the Elasticity of the Living Fig. 10 .
- Iv[irvu , te8 .
On\ 234 567 I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II 12 13 14 15 150 .
14-5 \#163 ; ' .
14-0 S 13-5 \#163 ; 13-0 g 12-5 ^ 12'Ofci 11-51 II 0^ 10*5 The " extent of recovery varies in different cases ; rarely it fails to take place at all .
It is important to notice that not only does the general surface of the hemisphere rise , hut that the saucer-shaped depression due to compression is obliterated .
To obtain a definite idea of the extent to which the pressure in the cerebral veins rises during asphyxia , I took the venous pressure during asphyxia from the superior cerebral in two dogs .
In one case in| which the normal pressure was very low , about 1*5 of water , it quickly rose to 8 cm .
, and in the other in which the normal was 6*5 cm .
water , after the usual preliminary fall , it rose again to 7*5 cm .
The asphyxial gasps when strong may cause a variation in pressure amounting to 1 cm .
water .
Brain and the Conditions of Recovery after Compression .
23 Fig. ll .
Time in minutes .
On30"l \#165 ; 3 ' 4 ' 5 ' 6 ' l ' I0 ' ll ' 13 ' 14 ' ( c. ) Venous Pressure Varied by Artificial By this aonci ___J*__ a , , x ^ may olten be made to recover completely , or nearly so .
Conclusion .
The foregoing experiments show clearly that the elastic recoil of e ivmg brain is due primarily to the elasticity of the brain sub-an *s n't ^ue to the pressure in the arterial system ( general ) . .
^\#174 ; \#174 ; oil , however , varies notably with changes in the pressure m the venous system ( cerebral ) .
Blood , pressure .
Messrs. W. E. Wilson and P. L. Gray .
On DESCRIPTION O DIAGRAMS .
The continuous lines represent the curves of the variations in level of the brain surface produced by pressure and otherwise .
The dotted lines represent the height of the blood pressure .
The times in which compression and recoil are measured are noted above the diagrams in seconds .
The enumeration of seconds always commences afresh at the point at which the weight is removed .
Eig .
3 .
50 grams applied for 1 minute .
This diagram shows typically the characters of the excursion and recoil .
Eig .
4 .
50 grams applied for 1 minute .
Between experiments a and h the brain was allowed to entirely recover its volume , and the animal was then bled to the extent of 150 c.c. This procedure caused a fall of the brain surface to 3'4 .
Eig .
5 .
Shows a typical curve when 50 grams are applied for 4 seconds only .
Eig .
6 .
The curves as far as # show the concurrent variations of brain surface and blood pressure under the influence of amyl nitrite .
At * experiment a was performed .
Between experiments a and b the effect of the amyl nitrite was allowed to wear off completely .
20 grams was the weight employed .
Eig .
7 .
( a ) was an experiment upon the normal brain .
( p ) was performed after administration of amyl nitrite .
Weight = 50 grams .
Eig .
8 .
( a ) performed with a cannula in one superior cerebral vein .
( 6 ) performed with the opposite superior cerebral also blocked .
Weight = 50 grams .
Eig .
9 .
( a)performed on the normal brain .
( 6 ) performed with both external and both internal jugulars clamped .
Weight = 50 grams .
Eig .
10 .
50 grams applied for 6 minutes .
Etherisation diminished at * with a consequent rise of blood pressure .
Eig .
11 .
50 grams applied for 30 seconds to a brain which had undergone considerable previous compression .
Etherisation diminished at # .
Trachea clamped at \#169 ; .
" On the Temperature of the Carbons of the Electric Arc ; with a Note on the Temperature of the Sun .
Experiments made at Daramona , Street , Co. Westmeath .
" By W. E. Wilson , M.R.I.A. , and P. L. Gray , B.Sc. , A.R.C.S. Communicated by G. Johnstone Stgney , F.R.S. Received November 14 , \#151 ; Read November 22 , 1894 .
The temperature of the positive pole of the electric arc , which is now generally believed to be the boiling point of carbon , is usually taken , on the authority of Violle , * as approximately equal to 3500 ' C. Violle 's method of determining it was as follows:\#151 ; The carbons of the arc were placed horizontally , and the positive pole was so arranged * Violle , ' Jour , de Phys. , ' 3rd Series , vol. 2 , 1893 , p. 545 .

