]\gt ; 1886 .
] Dynamical Theory of the Tides of Long IV .
' On the Dynamical Theory of the Tides of Long Period By G. H. DARWIN , .D .
, F.R. Fellow of Trinity College and Plumian Professor in the University of Cambridge .
Received November 5 , 1886 .
In the following note an objection is raised against Laplace 's method of treating these tides , and a dynamical solution of the problem , founded on a paper by Sir William Thomson , is offered .
Let be the colatitude and longitude of a point in the ocean , let and be the displacements its mean position of the water occupying that point at the time , let be the of the tide , and let be the height of the tide according to the equilibrium theory ; Jet be the anguIar velocity of the earth 's rotation , gravity , the earth 's radius , and the depth of the ocean at the point Then Laplace 's equations of motion for tidal oscillations are\mdash ; And the equation of continuity is\mdash ; .
( 2 ) The only case which will be considered here is where the depth of the ocean is constant , and we shall only treat the oscillabions of long period in which the displacements are not functions of the longitude .
As the motion to be considered only involves steady oscillation , we assume\mdash ; . . . . . .
Hence , by substitution in , we have Prof. G. H. Darwin .
On the where Then substituting for and in 2 ) , which , when is constant and is not a function of , becomes we get This is Laplace 's equation for tidal oscillations of the first kind.* In these tides is a small fraction , being about in the case of the fortnightly tide , and the coefficient in the equilibrium tide is equal to , where is a known function of the elements of the orbit of the tide-generating body , and of the obliquity of the ecliptic .
If now we write , and , our equation becomes In treating these oscillations Laplace does not use this equation , but seeks to show that friction suffices to make the ocean assume at each instant its form of equilibrium .
His conclusion is no doubt true , but the quesbion remains as to what amount of friction is to be regarded as sufficing to produce the result , and whether oceanic tidal fi.iction can be great enough to have the effect which he supposes it to have .
The frictiom here contemplated is such that the integral effect is represented by a l.etarding force proportional to the elocity of the fluid relatively to the bottom .
Although proportionality to the square of the velocity would probably be nearer to the truth , yet Laplace 's hypothesis suffices for the present discussion .
In oscillations of the under consideration , the water moves for half a period norbh , and then for half a period south .
Now in systems where the resistances are proportional to velocity , it is usual to specify the resistance by a modulus of decay , namely , period in which a velocity is reduced by frict to or of its initial value ; and the friction contemplated by Laplace * Mecaniqu 0elesto .
' 1886 .
] Dynamical Theory of the Tides of Long Period .
is such that the modulus of decay is short compared with the semiperiod of oscillation .
The quickest of the tides of long period is the fortnightly tide , hence for the applicability of Laplace 's conclusion , the modulus of decay must be short compared with a week .
Now it seems practically certain that the friction of the ocean bed would not much affect the velocity of a slow ocean current in a day or two .
Hence lve cannot accept Laplace 's hypothesis as to the effect of friction .
We now , therefore , proceed to the solution of the equation of motion when friction is entirely neglected .
The solution here offered is indicated in a footnote to a paper by Sir William Thomson Phil. , but has never been worked out before .
The symmetry of the motion demands that , when expanded in a series of powers of , shall only contain even powers of Let us assume then Then . . . .
( 5 ) Again . . . . .
, ( 6 ) whele is a constant .
Then substituting from ( and ( 6 ) in 4 ) , and equating to zero the successive coefficients of the powers of , we find , .
( 9 ) By repeafed applications of ( 9 ) we have in the form of a continued fi.action ( 10 ) And we know that this is a continuous )roximation , which must hold in satisfy the condition that the water covers the whole globe .
Le.t this continued fraction by Then , if we emember that , we have , \amp ; c. , 1886 .
] Dynamical the Tiies of Long so that , \amp ; c. and Then the height of tide is equal to , the equilibrium tide is equal to , and we have Now wheIl , we have feet ; so that gives an ocean of 1200 fathoms .
With this Yalue of , and with , wLich is the value for the forbnightly tide , I find , \amp ; c. These values give . .
\amp ; c. So that .
, At the pole , where , the equilibrium tide is ; at the equator it is Now at the pole and at the ltor h In a second case , namcly , with an ocean four times as deep , so that , I find In Thomson and Tait 's 'Natural Philosophy ' ( edition of have made a comparison of the tides of long period with the equilibrium .
The probable errors of the results are large , but not such as to render them worthless , and in view of the present investigation it is surprising to find that on the average the tides of long period amount to as much as two-thirds of their equilibrium value .
The investigation in the ' Nattlral Philosophy ' was undertaken in the belief of the correctness of Laplace 's view as to the tides of long period , and was intended to evaluate the effective rigidity of the earth 's mass .
The present result shows us that it is not possible to attain any estimate of the earth 's rigidity in this way , but as the tides of long period are distinctly sensible , we may accept the investigation in the ' Natural Phiiosophy ' as generally confirmatory of Thomson 's view as to the great eifective rigidity of the whole earth 's mass .
There is one tide , however , of long period of which Laplace 's argument from friction must hold true .
In consequence of the regression of the nodes of the moon 's orbit there is a minute tide with a period of nearly nineteen years , and in this case friction must be far more important than inel'tia .
Unfortunately this tide is very minute , and as I have shown in a Report for 1886 to the British Association on tides , it is entirely masked by oscillations of sea level produced by meteorological or other causes .
Thus it does not seem likely that it will ever be possible to evaluate the effective rigidity of the earth 's mass by means of tidal observations .

