69 1885 .
] -A- New Constituent of the Blood and its Import .
phrase " material system , " we include the gyroscopic systems whose motions produce the same effect as the potential energy of the original system , and two configurations are not supposed to coincide unless the configurations of these systems coincide also .
V. " On a New Constituent of the Blood and its Physiological Import .
" By L. C. WOOLDRIDGE , D.Sc .
, M.B. , Demonstrator of Physiology in Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received December 16 , 1884 .
In a paper on the Origin of the Fibrin Ferment , published in 4* Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 36 , I showed that there exists , dissolved in the plasma , a body which can give rise to fibrin ferment .
I have proceeded with my investigations , and have succeeded in making some additions to our knowledge of this subject , which I here describe .
As my researches are not complete , I confine myself to as brief an account as possible .
The subject is best studied in the blood of peptonised dogs .
But .as I showed in the above quoted paper , similar results are obtained from normal salt plasma , so that the results are not peculiar to pepton blood .
The body , the presence of which gives rise to fibrin ferment , can be isolated from pepton plasma in the following very simple manner:\#151 ; The plasma having been completely freed from all corpuscular elements by means of the centrifuge , is cooled down to about 0 ' .
The plasma , which was previously perfectly clear , becomes rapidly turbid , and after standing for some time in the cool , a very decided flocculent precipitate forms .
I have already described this -observation in a short note , " Ueber einen neuen Stoff des Blut-Plasmas , " in du Bois Reymond 's " Archiv fur Physiologie , " but it is necessary for me to allude to it here .
Now it is this body which gives rise to the fibrin ferment .
So long as the former is present in considerable quantity the latter clots readily on passing through it a stream of carbonic acid , or on dilution , and at the same time a very considerable quantity of fibrin ferment makes its appearance .
By prolonged cooling the greater part of this substance can be removed , and with its gradual removal the plasma clots less and less readily with C02 , and less and less ferment is formed , till finally it becomes practically incoagulable , i.e. , forms only a faint trace of fibrin after several days .
If some of the substance be again added to the plasma , it regains its power of clotting with C02 .
( The substance must be added before it has stood very long : see under .
) 70 Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
A Constituent of the [ Jan. 8 , It must be understood that the plasma , previous to the passage of the C03 , is quite free from fibrin ferment , so that there can be no question of the ferment being mechanically removed by the precipitate .
Moreover , that it is really the body removable by cold which gives rise to the fibrin ferment , and not any second body which is mechanically carried down with the former , is shown by the fact that the diffusion of a large quantity of inert finely-divided precipitate through the plasma , and its subsequent removal by the centrifuge , does not in any way do away with the power of the plasma to clot .
' It is therefore justifiable to assume that when pepton plasma clots readily and completely with C03 , it must contain this new body in some quantity , and that when it will not clot , or only very imperfectly , after repeated treatment with C03 or dilution , this new body must bo present in very small quantity .
Now I have found that the behaviour of pepton plasma with CO^ varies very considerably with the diet on which the animal is fed , and whether the animal is fasting or has recently been fed .
In some cases it clots readily , in others practically not at all .
Out of eight dogs fed on very lean meat only one gave a plasma which clotted at all fully , and in this case the clotting went on for two days .
From all the others the plasma , in spite of repeated treatment with C03 , only gave rise after two or three days to a scarcely perceptible fibrin membrane .
The animals were killed about eighteen hours after the last meal .
Of six dogs fed on fat and meat for several days all gave a plasma which clotted rapidly and fully in from twenty minutes to one hour after the C03 treatment .
The animals were killed about eighteen hours after being fed .
Of two dogs fed on bread and meat both gave a readily coagulable plasma .
One day 's feeding on fat does not produce any effect : that is , the blood of a dog thus fed behaves like that of a dog fed on a lean meat .
A dog fed for some days on fat and meat , was for five days previous to being killed put on fat alone ; as a consequence it practically ' starved , as it ate scarcely anything .
The blood from this dog clotted very incompletely .
Simple starvation for three days did away with the influence of fat in another case .
These results only hold good for dogs in health .
In a dog with a suppurating wound , kindly placed at my disposal by Mr. Horsley , the plasma , in spite of a lean meat diet , clotted with very great rapidity , and contained an enormous quantity of the new body .
All the other dogs were healthy , but were badly nourished when they came into my hands .
1885 .
] Blood and its Physiological Import .
71 It is necessary for these experiments that the peptonisation should he complete .
For the complete understanding of these results , I must return to a further consideration of this new constituent of the plasma .
The turbidity which appears on first cooling the plasma , if examined microscopically , is found to consist of a great number of minute pale transparent bodies of a rounded shape , much resembling small organised bodies , such for instance as the stroma of the red corpuscles , except that they are of very various size , but generally much smaller than red corpuscles .
They have a great tendency to run together into granular masses .
At first the precipitate is soluble on re-warming the plasma slightly , but it soon undergoes change , and loses the power of redissolving by heat .
If the substance be collected by means of the centrifuge it forms a disk or thin membrane at the bottom of the tube , much reminding one of fibrin , but closer examination shows that it presents marked differences from the latter , and that , in truth , it much more closely resembles the peculiar viscid body obtained by destroying leucocytes with dilute alkalies , \amp ; c. On longer standing , however , it becomes in most cases still further changed , and is then undistinguishable from ordinary fibrin , swelling in dilute HC1 like the latter .
For further details as to the properties of this substance , I refer to my paper quoted above .
We have already seen that this substance gives rise to fibrin ferment , but it does more than this in inducing coagulation .
Pepton plasma is not coagulable with fibrin ferment .
If we take some plasma rich in this new substance , and by means of 002 induce coagulation , we obtain , on removing the clot , a serum which has the power of inducing exceedingly rapid coagulation in a new portion of plasma , and this , when the serum has regained its alkalinity .
This serum contains ferment , but inasmuch as ferment is not sufficient to induce coagulation , it must also contain some other substance .
Now leucocytes have exactly the same power .
They give rise to ferment , but they also give rise to the other substance necessary for coagulation .
We see , therefore , that we have dissolved in the plasma a body exerting the same influence on the induction of coagulation as the leucocytes .
I think this is the strongest chemical proof that can be brought that the leucocytes break down to make , at any rate , a part of the proteid constituents of the plasma , and have shown above the influence which diet , \amp ; c. , has on the extent of this process , a fact of obvious interest for the question of assimilation .
There is , however , another important conclusion to be drawn from these observations , viz. , that one must admit , in addition to the 72 Dr. W. Haacke .
The Marsupial Ovum , the [ Jan. 8 , ordinary fermentative fibrin formation , that fibrin may be deposited from blood by simple physical means , without any ferment process ; for this new substance becomes , as I have stated , true fibrin , and yet the plasma does not contain ferment .
Possibly this mode of fibrin formation is of importance in the formation of a thrombus .
The peculiar microscopical characters should also be noted , as possibly affording an explanation of the observations made by Osier , Bizzozero , Hayem , and others .
I refer of course to the granules , Blut-plattchen , hsematoblasts , described by these authors .
As I am actively engaged on this subject , and as I hope before long to produce a complete account of my researches on the coagulation of the blood , I have purposely confined myself to the briefest outlines .
VI .
On the Marsupial Ovum , the Mammary Pouch , and the Male Milk Glands of Echidna hystrix .
" By WlLHELM Haacke , Ph. D. , Museum Director to the Public Library , Museum , and Art Gallery of South Australia , Adelaide , and late Assistant Director to the Zoological Institute , Jena .
Communicated by the President .
Received November 12 , 1884 .
On the 3rd of August , 1884 , a number of living specimens of Echidna hystrix were brought to Adelaide from Kangaroo Island , where they had been captured some days previously .
I was unable to procure more of them than two , a male and a female , as the others had been disposed of before I heard of them .
But those two afforded me the good fortune of making a discovery that , in our days , perhaps no naturalist would have expected to make .
I found e99 in the mammary pouch of the female , and was thus enabled to prove that Echidna is really an oviparous mammal .
This discovery was made on the 25th of August ; it was announced , and the egg was exhibited at the meeting of the Royal Society of South Australia on the 2nd of September ; the scientific society referred to being the first one on record , the members of which had an opportunity of examining an egg laid by one of the Monotremata .
On September 14th I killed and dissected the female Echidna that had laid the egg .
Neither the pouch nor the oviducts nor the uterus contained any more ova , but all the female organs were well developed .
Only the right ovary contained what evidently was a corpus luteum , but there was only one .
This corpus luteum deserved its name , as it was orange coloured instead of having a pale fleshy tint as is the case with the ovisacs still containing undeveloped ovula ; it was not quite so large and round as the largest of the ovisacs .

