452 Prof. W. C. Williamson on the [ June 1 III .
\lt ; e On the Organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-me sures.\#151 ; Part VII .
Myelopteris , Psaronius , and Kaloocylon By W. C. Williamson , Professor of Natural History in tl Owens College , Manchester .
Received June 3 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) In his ' Dendrolithen ' Cotta first figured some supposed stems unci the name of Medullosa , to one of which he gave the name of Medullo elegans .
Corda subsequently figured a portion of the same plant , in 1 ' Plora der Vorwelt/ under the name of Palmacites carbonigerus , in .
t ; belief that it was the stem of an arborescent palm .
M. Brongniart ne gave to the plant the name of Myelo , and at the same time e pressed strong doubts respecting its monocotyledonous character .
Q-oe ; pert gave this plant the generic name of In 1872 M Binney expressed his belief that the plant was " the rachis of a fern , \lt ; of a plant allied to one .
" At the Meeting of the British Association Bradford , in September 1873 , the author described this plant , ai pointed out his reasons for believing it to be not only a fern , but belong to the interesting family of the Marattiaceae ; and in the subs quent January Professor Renault read a description of the plant to tl Academy of Sciences at Paris , when , on independent evidence , he arriv\lt ; at the same conclusion , viz. that it was one of the Marattiaceae .
Slight modifying M. Brongniart 's generic name , M. Renault designates the pla : Myelopteris .
The author has obtained well-marked examples of this plant from tl Lower Coal-measures near Oldham , from a rachis nearly an inch in diamet to the smallest leaf-bearing twigs and leaflet-petioles .
It consists of mass of parenchyma encased in a hypodermal layer of sclerenchymatoi prosenchyma , arranged in anastomosing longitudinal bands , separate when seen in tangential sections , by vertically elongated areolae of pare ehyma , which latter has probably spread out as a thin epidermal layer i vesting the entire rachis .
These fibrous bands project inwards wi sharp wedge-shaped angles ; and in'some examples portions of them b come isolated as free fibrous bundles , running vertically through t peripheral portion of the inner parenchyma of the rachis .
Numero ' vascular bundles run vertically through this parenchyma .
In trau verse sections , not distorted by pressure , these bundles are arrangt in some degree of regular order .
This is especially the case wi a circle composed of the peripheral series of bundles .
Their cor ponent vessels are spiral in the case of some of the smaller ones , ai barred , very rarely reticulate , in a few of the larger vessels .
Scatter abundantly throughout the parenchyma are numerous narrow intercf lular gum-canals .
The majority of these are isolated ; but in most 1 the specimens there runs side by side with the vessels , and enclose within the special cellular sheath which imperfectly encloses each bund .
375 .
] Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
453 canal , of varied sizes and shapes , which appears to have bjeen ori-nally a gum-canal , subsequently enlarged irregularly by the shrinking : the neighbouring tissues .
In the larger and more matured petioles less vascular bundles are very conspicuous , both in transverse and longi-idinal sections ; but in the small , young , and terminal subdivisions of ie rachides the vessels are so small as to be almost undistinguishable from e surrounding parenchyma , while the gum-canals of such examples e , on the other hand , conspicuously large .
Transverse sections of ie most perfect examples of these young rachides exhibit , on their \gt ; per surface , a rounded central ridge , flanked on either side by a longi-idinal groove , which arrangements are so conspicuous in the corre-londing portions of the petioles of the Marattiaceae and of other ferns , he ultimate leaflet-petioles were given off at right angles to the central iChis from which they sprang , corresponding in this respect with one the types described by M. Eenault .
The author has not yet found in ancashire any of the large specimens that have been met with on the .ntinent at Autun and in the localities whence M. Cotta obtained his camples .
He has found a few and yet smaller fragments among the ctions from Burntisland .
The recognition of the Marattiaceous chapter of these plants excludes the P for the present from all aim to share in the glories of the carboniferous vegetation .
The second plant described by the author consists of clusters of ots with a portion of the outermost parenchymatous layer of the stem a tree fern , corresponding to those of the Psaronites long known characterize the upper carboniferous deposits of Autun and other calities .
The roots of* the Oldham specimen , to which the author has signed the name of Psaronites Penconsist of a well-defined Under of sclerenchymatous prosenchyma , within which has been a ass of more delicate parenchyma , in the centre of which was the usual ocular bundle .
But what characterizes the specimens , distinguishing em from the numerous species described by Corda , is the existence of # numbers of cylindrical hairs , each composed of a linear row of elon-ited cylindrical cells : these have obviously been the absorbent root-flrs of the living plant , which may possibly have been some species of emmatopteris ; but of this there is as yet no evidence .
The author then describes a small but very remarkable stem , to which 1 assigns the name of Kaloxylon HooTceri .
This is a slender stem , rarely ore than from one seventh to one tenth of an inch in diameter .
In its \gt ; ung state it consists of a central vascular axis which has an hexagonal etion , and which is composed of numerous vessels of various sizes , each which exhibits the reticulate form of the scalariform or barred type , i\lt ; | which is so common amongst the plants of the Coal-measures .
Ho ue barred or spiral vessels have yet been seen in the Kaloxylon .
In the \gt ; ung twigs this vascular axis is surrounded by a mass of large-celled .rtical parenchyma , which , in turn , is encased by an epidermal struc454 On the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
[ June 10 .
ture , composed of a double row of what have evidently been colourless cells , and which are elongated vertically , but with square ends .
In the more matured stems , the central vascular axis of the younj twigs becomes the centre whence radiate six exogenously developec wedges of vascular tissue , each of which enlarges as it proceeds outwards and terminates at its outer extremity in a slightly rounded con tour .
Each wedge consists of a series of radiating vascular laminae separated by numerous medullary rays , which latter consist of long and for the most part , single vertical rows of mural cells .
-These six exogenous wedges are separated from each other by a large wedge of cellulai cortical parenchyma , the cells of which are elongated radially and have a somewhat mural arrangement .
As those between any two contiguou wedges proceed outwards , they separate more or less definitely into twc series , which diverge right and left to sweep round the peripheral extremity of each nearest exogenous wedge , meeting and blending with a similar sel coming from the opposite side of the wedge .
In doing this they form a sort of loop , enclosing a semilunar mass of smaller cells interposed between the loop and the outer end of the exogenous wedge .
The author demonstrates that this enclosed cellular tissue is essentially a cambial layer , out of which all the new vessels and peripheral extensions ol the medullary rays were developed .
Young vessels are seen at its inner surface in process of formation .
External to these two specialized cortical tissues there is , in these matured stems , a mass of the primitive cortical parenchyma seen in the youngest shoots , enclosed , as before , in a double layer of epidermal cells .
The author has traced the development of branches from this axis .
They are given off from single exogenous wedges in a very peculiar , but eminently exogenous manner , the details of which are given in the memoir .
But , besides these , other clusters of vessels are given off which have no exogenous development or radiating arrangement .
It is not yet clear what these .secondary vascular bundles signify .
The author points out the general resemblance between this development of the detached exogenous wedges and that of the 4-partite woody axes of the Bignonias of Brazil , demonstrating at the same time then very marked differences .
Though no traces of leaves have yet been discovered in connexion with these stems , the author has very little doubt that they belong to some Bycopodiaceous plant .
The nature of the vessels and the simplicity ol their arrangement alike indicate cryptogamic features , at the same time that their mode of development indicates , with remarkable distinctness , that we have here another example of that exogenous mode of development of which the author has already described so many modifications amongst the fossil stems from the Coal-measures .
The occurrence of this physiological process of exogenous growth in a stem which , when matured , was little more than one tenth of an inch in diameter , shows 1875 .
] On Electrical Discharges through Rarefied Gases .
455 that its occurrence is not merely a question of the size of the plant , as some have supposed , but that it has a deeper meaning , and corresponds more closely than has been supposed with the exogenous developments seen equally in large and small examples of living plants .
IV .
" Experiments on Stratification in Electrical Discharges through Rarefied Gases .
" By William Spottiswoode , M.A. , Treas .
R.S. Received May 27 , 1875 .
In the stratified discharges through rarefied gases produced by an induction-coil working with an ordinary contact-breaker , the striae are often unsteady in position and apparently irregular in their distribution .
Observations made with a revolving mirror , which I hope to describe on another occasion , have led me to conclude that an irregular distribution of striae does not properly appertain to stratification , but that its appearance is due to certain peculiarities in the current largely dependent upon instrumental causes .
The beautiful and steady effects obtained by Mr. Gassiot with his Leclanche battery , and also more recently by Mr. De La Rue with his chloride-of-silver battery , have abundantly shown the possibility of stratification free from the defects above mentioned ; but it must be admitted that the means employed by those gentlemen are almost gigantic .
The present experiments were undertaken with the view of ascertaining , first , how far it was possible to approach towards similar results with instruments already at my command ; and secondly , whether these would afford other modes of attack , beside the battery , on the great problem of stratified discharges .
I The induction-coil used was an ** 18-inch " by Apps , worked occasionally by 6 large chloride-of-silver cells , kindly lent to me by Mr. Le La Rue , but more usually by 10 or by 20 Leclanche cells of the smallest size ordinarily made by the Silvertown Company .
I have also , in connexion with the same coil , 120 of the latter cells , connected in twenties for quantity , and forming 6 cells of 20 times the surface of the former : these work the coil with the ordinary contact-breaker very well , giving 11-inch sparks whenever required .
A " switch " affords the means of throwing any of the three batteries in circuit at pleasure .
Having reason to think that the defects in question were mainly due to irregularity in the ordinary contact-breaker , I constructed one with a steel rod as vibrator ( figs. 1 \amp ; 2 , p. 456 ) , having a small independent electromagnet for maintaining its action .
The natural vibrations of the rods which were tried varied from 320 to 768 per second ; while under the action of \#174 ; ke battery-current and electromagnet they varied from 700 to 2500 , or thereabouts , per second .
The amplitudes of the vibrations were exceedingly small , in fact not exceeding '01 of an inch ; and it is to this fact ,

