On artificial temporary Colour-blindness .
35 The observed rotation in oxygen gives a value for this of 3'5 X 10-u , so that it is about equal to the calculated value .
The discrepancy may be due to the fact that p is not the same for all spectral lines , and we could not reasonably expect to yet an accurate result by assuming that the Zeeman effect in zinc ^an be used in calculating the Faraday effect in oxygen .
On the i whole I think the calculation shows that what must be a vera causa for a Faraday effect is the whole cause of it .
From the mere fact that rotatory polarisation is approximately inversely as the square of the wave-length and consequently vanishes for long waves , it follows that it is essentially a dispersion phenomenon .
" On artificial temporary Colour-blindness , with an Examination of the Colour Sensations of 109 Persons .
" By George J. Burch , M.A. Communicated by Professor Gotch , F.R.S. Received February 5 , \#151 ; Read February 17 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) By exposing the eye for a sufficient length of time to bright sunlight in the focus of a burning glass behind suitably chosen transparent screens , it is possible to induce over the whole retina a t condition of temporary colour-blindness .
After red light the observer is for some minutes completely red-blind , so that scarlet geraniums appear black and roses blue , while yellow flowers seem various shades of green , and purple flowers look violet .
The same mistakes are made in sorting Holmgren 's wools as by the red-blind .
\#171 ; Temporary violet blindness may be brought about by using a tank of ammonio-sulphate of copper .
While it lasts , violet wools look black and purple flowers crimson , but the green foliage appears of a richer tint than usual .
The recovery from violet blindness is very slow .
Green blindness may be brought about by exposing the eye to light through three thicknesses of green glass .
The colour-scheme of the landscape during this condition is that of a picture painted with vermilion , flake-white , and ultramarine , variously blended .
Purple blindness may be produced by a combination of films stained with magenta and aniline violet , by which the green is | absorbed .
During purple blindness the vision is practically monoid chromatic , no colour being visible but green .
If one eye is rendered purple-blind and the other green-blind , the i observer sees all objects in their natural colours but with a curiously ' exaggerated perspective due to the difficulty of combining the o images perceived by one eye with those visible to the other .
3t\gt ; Mr. G. J. Burch .
General Appearance of the Spectrum during Temporary Colour Blindness .
A large spectroscope , in which only about a tenth part of thispectrum is visible at once , is directed to the sun , and the slit openec till the illumination is as intense as can be borne .
After the eye haf been sufficiently fatigued the results are observed in a single-prisn spectroscope in which the entire spectrum is visible .
The following parts of the spectrum , namely , the red from A to B , the green from the neighbourhood of E , the blue about half-wai between F and G , and the violet at and beyond H , produce well-defined and characteristic results , whereas the intermediate portions of the spectrum produce results intermediate in character .
That is to say , while exposure to red light causes changes affecting the red , and exposure to green light produces corresponding changes in the green , yellow light , instead of causing corresponding changes in the yellow , affects the whole of the red and the whole of the green , the total change being equal to the sum of the changes due to excitation by red light and by green light separately .
The effects produced by each of the four above-mentioned colours* differ in degree but not in kind .
( 1 ) In each case all direct sensation of the colour used for fatiguing the eye is lost .
( 2 ) There is produced a positive after-effect of the same colour bj which the hue of all other colours is modified if they are relativelj weak , but which is unnoticed if they are bright .
( 3 ) The temporary abolition of any one colour sensation is with-j out effect on the intensity of the remaining colour sensations , .
' - ^wo or any three of these four colour sensations can be simultaneously or successively exhausted .
( 5 ) dhe positive after-effect of red is very transient ; that of ?
green lasts longer and is more noticeable ; that of blue is still more powei aan persistent ; and that of violet is strongest and lasts a ong w i e. s the positive after-effect subsides the colour sensa-J tion returns , but the positive after-effect becomes unnoticeable long !
before the colour sensation is restored to its full strength . .
^ 1 2 3 * 5 6 Process dazzling the eye the observer is con-j scions of the progress of the change , but only realises the extent of | *11 C. 0 !
*r , m ness on attempting to examine a less brilliantly !
illuminated spectrum .
1 i .
6 Pos^ve after-effect does not in these experiments pass through !
dSons ^ ^ after-imaSes appear to do under other con-1 On artificial temporary Colour-blindness .
Examination of the Phenomena ivith a Spectroscope of Wide Dispersion .
Green blindness was produced by the spectroscopic method already Lescribed .
When the exposure was complete the slit was closed tntil the Fraunhofer lines were sharply defined .
All sensation to ; reen was lost , the x'ed appearing to meet the blue in the centre of he field .
The position of the junction of these two colours could be varied considerably by exposing the eye to strong red or strong xlue light , thus showing that the red and blue overlap .
But violet ight had no effect upon the position of the junction of red with one .
Similarly , during blue-blindness , the green and violet were seen to overlap , exposure to green light shifting the junction towards the green and vice versa .
Red light had no effect on the position of the junction of green with violet during blue-blindness .
The phenomenon of flickering* visible between the red and the green of a highly magnified spectrum , is also seen at the junction of red with blue during green-blindness , and of green with violet during blue-blindness , as well as at the junctions of green with blue and of .
blue with violet under normal conditions .
The author has succeeded by an exposure of three minutes to light from between H and K in blinding the eye to violet without affecting the blue , the real hue of which is thus seen , unaccompanied by any other colour sensation .
These experiments lead to the conclusion that no one colour-sensation is related to any other in the sense indicated by Hearing .
Each may be exhausted without either weakening or strengthening the others .
The observed facts are , in the author 's opinion , more in accordance with the Young-Helmholtz theory , but they imply the existence of a fourth colour sensation , namely , blue .
Examination of the Colour Sensations of 109 Persons .
The tests employed were Holmgren 's wools , supplemented by gelatine films stained with various colours , Hering 's method of coloured shadows , and the author 's spectroscopic method , which was applied to seventy normal cases in the following manner .
Using the large spectroscope referred to , with the slit narrow so as to give a comfortable degree of illumination , the observer selects those portions of the spectrum at which he sees a marked change of hue .
He then looks at the red between A and B for thirty seconds , and at a given signal traverses the spectrum rapidly , stopping at the first of these changes .
Next he looks at the green for thirty seconds before turning to the * ' Pliysiol .
Soc. Proc. , ' June , 1897 .
33 Profs .
A. Gray and J. J. Dobbie .
Connection between second change of hue .
Again , after looking at blue for thirty second \lt ; he seeks the third change of hue .
The next step is to trace tb I violet to its limits .
After this he works through the spectrum bad i again , fatiguing the eye with violet before finding the blue , and St 1 on , ending with the determination of the limits of the red .
Thi j degree of fatigue is so slight that he is quite unconscious of it .
The seventy cases examined in this way agree as to the numbei j and mean position of the changes of hue , but they may be divided j broadly into those whose colour sensations overlap and those whose colour sensations do not overlap , i.e. , those who find the changes of tint occur in the same place when working from red to violet as when returning from violet to red .
The first class includes persons both educated and uneducated whose avocations require them to compare colours .
The second com !
j prises all who fail with the closer shades of Holmgren 's wools !
Details are given of some in whom the green and violet are so fari j extended into each other that they see practically no pure blue , and j it is suggested that these , and other differences in the relative !
intensity and extent of the colour sensations may account for the ] ] divergence of opinions among writers on the subject .
The paper I concludes with an account of five cases of red-blindness .
On the Connection between the Electrical Properties and the Chemical Composition of different kinds of Glass . !
By Professor Andrew Gray , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Professor ; J. J. Dobbie , M.A. , D.Sc .
Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read !
February 17 , 1898 .
J The experiments and results described in the following paper are !
a first instalment of work we have undertaken with a view to finally 1 determining if possible , the circumstances which affect the con-1 ductivity and specific inductive capacity of glass .
It appeared from 1 some experiments which were carried out by Professor T. Gray and I ourselves some years ago , * that it might be of interest to have a up with a \#153 ; w * ' s'meof| Mir:^re ; Tly 0f"n\lt ; \gt ; d Professor T. Gray had show that 1 uTfU ?
" i ' taTe a hi\#171 ; her conductivity than flint I nartienlnr't resnlt hadals0 been arrived at by Dr. Hopkinson .
In ] , a , , seamed desirable to ascertain whether by increasing the 1 Z , i u diminishing the amount of soda , the con- 1 ductivity would go on duninishing .
We have experienced great 1 * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' No. 231 , 1884 .

