On the Causes which produce the Phenomena of New Stars .
443 April 16 , 1891 .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Causes which produce the Phenomena of New Stars .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received November 28 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) In communications to the Society during the last four years , I have produced evidence to show that many so-called stars are composed of swarms of meteorites , and are increasing their temperature .
Taking a normal case of an undisturbed swarm , 1 have shown , by means of a " temperature curve , " the spectra given by the same mass of meteorites in its evolution from a nebula t\#169 ; a condensed and nearly cold body .
In considering this question , the appearance of the so-called " New Stars " was referred to , and it was suggested that such appearances might be due to the collision of meteor-swarms or streams in space , an idea which I first put forward with regard to Nova Cygni in 1877 .
It became obvious that a complete discussion of these phenomena would afford a valuable test of the general hypothesis , for the reason that such bodies , instead of going forward along the temperature curve , should go back as they cooled and became invisible .
All the observations have , therefore , been brought together and discussed from this point of view , the investigation having special reference to the sequence of spectroscopic changes from the first appearance of a new star to its final disappearance .
The various theories which have been put forward since the appearance of the new star of 1572 are referred to in the paper , and these are followed by a general statement of the meteoritic theory of the origin of new stars .
The remaining part of the paper consists of a detailed discussion of all the observations of new stars which have been made , and the final result is a complete justification of the conclusion arrived at from the first survey that " new stars , whether seen in connexion with nebulae or not , are produced by the clash of meteor-swarms .
" Some of the chief points may be referred to here .
444 Mr. J. Norman Lockyer .
On Causes [ Apr. ltj , The investigation has shown that there is a close relation between the spectra of comets and the spectra of new stars , but whereas in comets only one swarm has to be considered , in new stars there are two swarms which may or may not be equally dense or of equal dimensions .
The spectrum of a new star is therefore a compound one .
We have , in fact , a mixed radiation and absorption spectrum similar to that presented by a variable like Mira Ceti when at its maximum brilliancy .
In another paper I have shown that variables of the Mira type are really double swarms , and hence the conclusion that the difference between this class of variables and new stars is only a difference in the orbits of the subsidiary swarms .
Omitting Nova ( TJ ) Orionis , which proved to be only a long period variable , only three new stars have been spectroscopically observed ; namely , Nova Coronse ( 1866 ) , Nova Cygni ( 1876-77 ) , and Nova Andromedae ( 1885 ) .
In Nova Coronse , when first observed , a spectrum of bright lines was superposed upon one of dark lines .
The absorption phenomena were similar to those characteristic of stars like Orionis , and the chief radiation was that of hydrogen .
A discussion of the observations suggests that two of the ill-defined lines in the blue may have been due to carbon .
Iti the discussion of cometary phenomena which I have previously communicated to the Society , I pointed out that in many cases the blue band appeared to have two maxima , one at X 468 and one at X 473 , and it is more than probable that the two lines of the Nova were identical with those of comets.* In comets , the blue band , whether single or double , is generally admitted to be due to carbon , from its association with the undoubted carbon band in the green , and the same origin is therefore probable in the case of the Nova .
Whatever the origin of the two lines in Nova Coronae , the fact of their being common to comets ' and a new star is the point I am anxious to bring out .
The F line was recorded throughout the whole period of observation , and another bright line , apparently coincident with the chief nebula line , was recorded by Messrs. Stone and Carpenter .
The suggestion that a new star is produced by the collision of two meteor-swarms or streams is fully borne out by the discussion of the observations of Nova Coronae .
The mixed phenomena of absorption and radiation which were observed are simply and sufficiently explained on this supposition .
An attempt is made in the paper to * Note , April4.\#151 ; The band in question is also probably identical with the one seen in some of the stars of the Wolf-Raj et type .
Dr. and Mrs. Huggins have recently made observations of some of these stars which have led them to conclude that the band is not due to carbon ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, * vol. 49 , p. 33 ) .
I am not yet convinced on this point , but I shall take another opportunity of replying to their remarks .
1891 .
] ' which produce the Phenomena of New Stars .
show that the spectrum of the Nova can he reproduced by integrating the spectrum of a comet at a certain temperature , and a nebula of a certain degree of condensation .
The resulting spectrum differs only very slightly from that of the Nova , and the differences can be accounted for by difficulties of observation .
Nova Cygni is by far the most important new star which has appeared in spectroscopic times .
Numerous observations were made , and they are , on the whole , in reasonable agreement .
The most complete observations were made by Vogel .
When first observed , the spectrum consisted of several bright lines and flutings , the lines of hydrogen being very conspicuous .
As the star gradually faded away , there was a general diminution in the number and brightness of the lines , but the most striking feature was the brightening of the line in the green , near X 500 , which is generally accepted to be the nebula line , as the other lines faded .
Finally , the spectrum consisted solely of the line 500 .
The discussion indicates that , in addition to hydrogen , there was the radiation of carbon vapour , the flutings seen being those which are most frequently observed in comets .
They are , however , modified by the superposition of the spectra of other substances .
Practically all the lines and flutings seen in the spectrum of Nova Cygni can be explained by reference to laboratory work at low temperatures .
As in the case of Nova Coronee , the spectrum of Nova Cygni can be reproduced by integrating the spectra of bodies which we have reason to believe are swarms of meteorites .
Several examples of this are given in the paper .
In the earlier stages , it is necessary to integrate the spectra of at least three swarms of different degrees of condensation , but as the spectrum became simpler , two are sufficient .
The compound origin and character of the spectrum of a Nova is thus clearly indicated .
It is not to be supposed from these integrations that in the first instance there are really three or more swarms engaged .
A Nova is probably produced by the collision of only two swarms , but the resulting mixed swarm* is so complicated that we can only reprrsent it by assuming at least three temperature conditions .
There will be the temperatures corresponding to each of the central condensations , and that corresponding to the outliers .
As the swarm cools , the temperature becomes more equal throughout , and finally the swarm resembles a planetary nebula .
The spectrum of Nova Andromedae was at no time a very striking one , and was always difficult to observe .
It was also further complicated by being superposed upon the then imperfectly recognised spectrum of the Great Nebula , in which it was involved .
The spectrum was almost continuous , with brighter portions here and there , which could only be measured with difficulty .
Consequently , the results obtained by different observers are somewhat discordant .
The discussion shows that what was really observed after the star had On the Phenomena of New Stars .
[ Apr. 16 faded was nothing more than the spectram of the nebula itself , as might be expected .
Owing to the difficulty of making the observations , the apparent variations of the spectrum from day to day may not be real , and it is hopeless to attempt to explain them by a reference to the effects produced by a gradual fall of temperature .
As the star only fell two magnitudes during the whole period of spectroscopic observation , the change of temperature would not be so great as in Nova Gygni , and the variations would not be so well marked No lines or bands , however , were on any occasion recorded in the spectrum with which we are not familiar in other bodies which , there is evidence to show , are meteoritic swarms .
A diagram shows that the spectrum of the Nova , as seen by Copeland , on October 1 , can be reproduced by adding the spectrum of hydrogen to that of the nebula .
It is next pointed out that the theoretical sequence of phenomena in the spectrum of a Nova produced by the collision of two swarms of different densities is in strict accordance with the partial sequences actually observed .
A discussion of the colour phenomena shows also that in Novae we have to deal with mixed swarms , the colours at certain stages being compound ones .
In my former paper , I have shown that carbon radiation is one of the chief characteristics of uncondensed meteor-swarms , and the discussion of the new stars has revealed the fact that carbon is also one of the chief characteristics of their spectra , though modified by other substances .
The observed changes in magnitudes of Novae are also in accordance with the collision theory .
The rapid fading away demonstrates most conclusively that small bodies , and not large ones , are in question .
The observations with which I have had to deal have often been imperfect , owing *to the difficulty of observing this class of bodies , and different observers have frequently disagreed with regard to some of the spectroscopic details , but still , as I have endeavoured to show , most of the discrepancies can be reconciled when difficulties of observation are allowed for .

