1886 .
] Sti'ess and Strain and the Properties of Matter .
447 experimenting here , therefore , was ' to take the rhythm of the heart , or the excitability of the nerve , immediately before screwing up the apparatus , and again immediately after taking it down .
I was thus unable to observe the effects of the pressure during the time that it was being actually applied ; but as it only took me a quarter of a minute to unship the chamber and turn its contents out on the table , if the 150 atmospheres had exerted any marked influence on the excitability of the tissues , it would probably have been easily detected by this method .
Yet neither the heart nor the nerve showed any change after an exposure of five minutes to this great increase of pressure .
VI .
" The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Physical Properties of Matter .
Part I. Elasticity\#151 ; continued .
The Effect of Magnetisation on the Elasticity and the Internal Friction of Metals .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grills Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 18 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The principal object of this investigation was to test the soundness of the view advanced by Professor G. Wiedemann respecting the cause of the internal friction of a torsionally oscillating wire.* According to this view the internal friction is mainly due to permanent rotation to-and-fro of the molecules about their axes ; it seemed probable , therefore , that experiments on the effects of magnetising a wire either longitudinally with a helix or circularly by passing a current through it would aid in elucidating the matter .
In the experiments on the effects of longitudinal magnetisation arrangements were made so that the heat generated in the magnetising helix should not reach the wire , whilst the effect of the heat generated in the wire when an electric current was passed through it was eliminated in a manner which is fully described in the paper .
Besides the experiments on the effect of magnetisation on the internal friction and on the torsional elasticity of metals , others were made relating to the longitudinal elasticity of metals .
The following are the principal results which have been obtained :\#151 ; 1 .
When the deformations produced by the oscillations are small , the internal friction of a torsions , lly vibrating wire of iron or steel is not affected by sustained longitudinal magnetisation of moderate amount .
The internal friction is also not affected by the sustained magnetisation even when the latter is carried to the point of satura* " Wiedemann 's Annalen , " N.F. , Bd .
vi , p. 485 .
448 Stress and Strain and the Properties of Matter .
[ May 27 , tion , provided the magnetising current be , previously to experimenting , reversed a great number of times .
When no previous reversals have been made the internal friction is slightly increased by intense magnetisation .
2 .
When the deformations produced by the oscillations are large the internal friction is very sensibly increased by sustained longitudinal magnetisation of large amount .
3 .
The torsional elasticity is entirely independent of any sustained longitudinally magnetising stress which may be acting upon an iron or steel wire , provided the deformations produced by the torsional oscillations be small .
When the deformations are large , the number of oscillations executed in a given time is very slightly lessened by sustained longitudinal magnetisation of large amount .
4 .
When the magnetising current is interrupted and , to a greater extent , when it is reversed repeatedly whilst the wire is oscillating , the internal friction is increased , provided the magnetising stress be of moderate amount .
The increase of internal friction may become very considerable when the magnetising stress is great .
When the number of interruptions or reversals in a given time of the magnetising current exceeds a certain limit the effect on the internal friction begins to decline .
5 .
When the deformations produced by the oscillations are small , the torsional elasticity is not affected by either repeatedly interrupted or reversed longitudinal magnetisation even when the magnetising stress is large .
6 .
There exists a limit of magnetic stress within which no permanent rotation whatever of the molecules is produced .
This limit may be widened by previous repeated reversals of a large magnetising stress .
7 .
The passage of a moderate electric current , whether sustained or interrupted , through a torsionally vibrating wire of iron , steel , or nickel does not affect , except by heating , either the internal friction or the torsional elasticity , provided the deformations produced by the oscillations be small .
8 .
The effect of longitudinal magnetisation , even when carried to the point of saturation , on the longitudinal oscillation of an iron or steel wire , is nil .
9 .
The passage of an electric current , whether sustained or interrupted , through a longitudinally oscillating wire of iron or steel does not , except by heating , affect the number of oscillations executed in a given time .
10 .
When the deformations produced by the oscillations do not exceed a certain limit , the internal friction cannot apparently depend upon the permanent rotation of the molecules about their axes .
When , however , the deformations exceed this limit , the internal 1886 .
] Researches in Stellar Photography .
friction becomes very sensibly larger , and does partly , if not mainly , depend upon the permanent rotation to-and-fro of the molecules about their axes .
The above-mentioned limit can be widened by allowing the wire to rest after suspension with oscillations at intervals , by annealing , and by repeated heating and cooling .
VII .
" Researches in Stellar Photography .
1 .
In its Relation to the Photometry of the Stars ; 2 .
Its Applicability to Astronomical Measurements of Great Precision.5 ' By the Rev. 0 .
Pritchard , D.D. , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of Astronomy in Oxford .
Received May 20 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) I. The objects are , first to enquire , by means of accurate measurement , whether there does not exist a definite relation between the area \#166 ; of the disk of a star image impressed on a photographic film and the " photometric magnitude " of that star as determined by instrumental means .
For this purpose , 'several plates of portions of the Pleiades were taken by varying exposures in the focus of the De la Rue reflector of 13 inches aperture , in the Oxford University Observatory .
The diameters of the star disks on these plates were then carefully measured , both with the macro-micrometer and with a double image micrometer , in the same establishment .
The result is that the relation sought for is expressed by\#151 ; D\#151 ; D'=S{log M'-logM } , where D , D ' are the measured diameters of two star disks on the same plate , and M , M ' their corresponding " , " as recorded in the " Uranometria Nova Oxonienses .
" The mean difference between the observed and computed magnitudes as derived from the foregoing formula , applied to 28 stars all impressed on each of the four plates and ranging from magnitude 3 to magnitude 9'5 , is O'16 magnitude .
A few stars ( 3 ) here stand out , in all the plates , as was to be expected , arising from the peculiar actinic action of their spectra .
Similar anomalies , as is well known , exist in the application of the photometer .
II .
In the next section of the enquiry the effect of alteration of the time of exposure on the areas of the star images is referred to .
The enquiry is not fully completed , but as far as it extends , it indicates that for stars not very faint , the areas of the disks of the same star on the same plate vary as the square root of the time of exposure .
VOL. XL .
* 2 H

