]\gt ; On the action ersion of lKrypton and Xenon Relation to cf Helium Argon .
By C. TSON , of London University , University College ; and M. CUTJIBERTSON .
( Commumicated by Prof. F. T. Tronton , .S .
Received , \mdash ; Read Noveml ) , 1908 .
) By the kindness of Sir William Ramsay and Prof. .
B. foore , we been enabled to measure the refractive indices of krypton and xenon with much larger quantities of these gases than were available at the time of their first isolation .
The method of preparation of the rases will be given by Prof. Loore in a paper about to be presc ted to the Chemical Society .
The procedure followed in determining the indices is described in a paper lately ublished by the Royal need be on recapitulated .
Jamin 's refractometer was used , and the source of crht was , for the efraction , a Bastian mercury lalnp , and for the dispersio1l , ernst lamp in conjunction with a fixed-deviation spectroscope .
In the dispersion , one of the two tubes was filled with the gas in question , and the other with air at such a pressure that the optical of path of the rays were approximately equal .
The then Conti ] from to , and ) the position of the centre of a iven bright band was obsel.ved in a telescope fitted lvith a lnicrometer eyepiece .
The on the same scale ] ) veell the cclltres of two ad , acent bright bands of known wave-length ( generally ) as also noted .
These observations constituted the point of departure .
The pressure of the in then altered till convenient number of bands of wavelength 6500 ( usually had passed in one ; and , , the pressure of air in the other tube was altered till same number of bands ) assed in the contrary direction .
of the was then the first ] to the second , and the movelnent of the of the balld under was noted .
Supl ) that nlovement is divisions of the llicromefel , and distance between the centres of two adjacent is divisions .
Let be llullber of of -length and epass , the number of bands of -length ) which vould have been ) erved with of this -length if the of " " the ) } ) of ) , Sulphur ; phorn , by tsoll n. P. letlf , ' ol .
80 , 1 ) .
411 , On the Refraction and Dispersion of Krypton , on , etc. 441 the air alone had been changed , and the corresponding number if the pressure of the gas alone had been Then what is observed is that the relative path retardation which may be written where is the path retardation for any wave-length .
And since is in each case proportional to , this equation becomes The first on the left is the dispersive power of air , which is known , and since is observed , the dispersive power of the gas can be calculated .
Krypton.\mdash ; About 100 .
of gas at normal temperature and pressure were employed .
The refractive index for the mercury green ray was determined six times , each determination being the mean of two of 100 bands , in one of which pressure was and in the other , so as to eliminate the effect of a drift of zero .
The following are the values obtained :\mdash ; No. of experiment .
Mean of l , 2 , 3 , 5 , and6 The divergence in the fourth experiment was accounted for , and it may be ected .
The othe1s to one part in a thousand , and their mean may be accepted .
The dispersion was calculated from seven experiments:\mdash ; .
of Excess of power of Kr expcriment .
over that of dry air .
lIean. .
442 .
Cuthbertson and Mrs. Cuthbertson .
On the [ Sept. 28 , The dispersive power of air has been fated several times , but , unfortunately , the r ] are not very concordant .
following table shows the principal deternlinations , the difference of refractivity between and the fraction expressing ] dispersive power calculated for these limits .
Table I. The ures of Mascart , Scheel , and Perreau , are so alike hat the probably lies near them , and we select those of Scheel .
According to him , the dispersive power of air between the lilnits an is ; and this , added to the excess of the dispersive of krypton over air gives If the dispersion of krypton is expressed in the form we have , therefore , And from the refractivity ior we have JIence .
It be remelnbcled figures ' the ature { pressure , without allowance for the fact that the ( is .
In mitking ison for an equal nulnl)er of , in stead of an equad , the value of must bc doublec In foul eriments , were taken of the of the .
The shows the results:\mdash ; 1908 .
] Refraction and Dispersion of Krypton , Xenon , etc. 443 Table II .
Dispersive power .
to to to .
Excess of krypton over Air ( Schcel ) ) Krypton ( calculated ) It will be observed that the values of calculated from the two sets of ures agree well .
Xenon.\mdash ; About 120 .
of this gas were employed .
The table shows the results of four determinations of the efractive index for the boreen cury.line : No. of experiment .
Mean The dispersion was calculated from eight experiments .
No. of Excess of dispersive power experiment .
over dry air .
Mean Add dispersive power of air From these ures we find the refractive index of xenon doubled ( X ) is expressed by the formula With regard to the accuracy of these results , it is only necessary to ) serve briefly that it depends on four principal factors:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The purity of the gas , which is dealt with in Prof. Moore 's , to which reference has been made .
444 .
Cuthbertson and Mrs. Cuthbertson .
On the [ Sept. 28 , ( 2 ) The ness of the assumed value for the dispersion of air : shown above , this is probably trustworthy within 2 or 3 per cent. ( 3 ) Tho experimental errors , which can ) judged from the ures given We think that they do not amount to much more than in the case of air .
( 4 ) The adequacy of CauclIy 's formula : the figures given for the intermediate values of the dispersion of krypton show that the degree of accuracy attained was not sufficient to test this point .
Relative of the Inert Gases .
\mdash ; The index of helium has recently been determined by four sets ol observers .
Their results are as follows , and are for Table III.\mdash ; Refraction and Dispersion of Helium . .
Observers .
W. Burton , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 80 , 1908 , p. 390 .
Kurt .
JIerrmann , ' Ber . .
Deu .
Phys. gosell 1908 , part 5 .
K. Scheel and Schmidt , Cuthbcrtson and Mctcalfe , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 80 , 1908 , p. 411 The first last sets of figures agree very well ; the others do not .
We select those of Mr. Burton comparison with our results .
\mdash ; We regret that we have not been able to obtain a sufficient quantity of pure neon to enable us to measure its dispersion .
The only value with which we are acquainted is that of 1'amsay and Travers for white light ; , while , for has also redetermined the index of for valuc .
On several occasions it has been shown how closely the efractivities of these approach to the ratios of 1 , 2 , 8 , 12 , and 20 .
We are now able to Jltl ) the values for infinite as calculated from Cauchy 's , and that the coincidence is still more stl.iking .
The original of anlbay a Travers ttrc shown in colunlll 2 .
They are for white 1908 .
] and oersion of 445 light .
In columns 5 , 6 , and 7 the figures for neon are the old for white light multiplied by two .
elative Pefractivities of the Inerb Gases for infinite Wavelengths .
1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
6 .
and Divergence gence Col. cent. from Col. ( 1ivid ) Col. 3 , ( molecular ) . .
( atomic ) .
' cent. .
Col. 3 .
reviQed val , Helium . .
) NeonArgon .
ndard pton . .
425 Xenon . .
689 Dispcrsi be of the In his paper , cited above , Mr. Burton compares the owers of helium and with hydrogen , and points out that when they are expressed in the form the values of are in the ratios of 1 , 3 , and 2 respectively .
It is now possible to extend this comparison to krypton and xenon .
The following figures show that the coincidence fails in these cases .
If the value of for helium be taken as 1 and that for , the values for krypton and xenon are.not in the ratios of simple integers .
It Qhould also be that Mascart 's value of for , adopted by rton for comparison , is not supported by the eterminations o other Helium . .
Argon . . .
997 ) Krypton . .
X enon. . . .
] S45 Another relation between the refraction and dispel.sion can , } , be deduced .
The shows the valnes of ) the refractivities for infinite wave-lengths iven in Table A very good staaight line can be drawn the heJium , krypton , and xenon , and is not far off .
, instead of 's value for for helium , we take Cuthbeltson and the position of is innproved .
Burton states that his il Sir lVilliam Famsay and obtained frolll fessrs .
Tyrer give its density .
If it contained any utlt the value of , while the valuc of ''would scarcely be -k Iascart 's value is frolll KetteleI 's ) fi , from Perreau , from Schee ] ) .
VOL. LXXXI.\mdash ; A. ) and Mrs. Cuthbertson .
the [ Sept. 28 , The dots for X , Kr , He ) closer to line .
that , even for air , values of have varied so widely as from ( Mascart ) ( Kayser and , it may fairly be that within the limits of experimental error , in the inert ases , is linear function of the refractivity for infinite It is unfortullate that , at , we are unable to compare with these results the dispersions of any other series of more than two elements .
The dispel.sions of selenium tellurium and of al.senic have been roughly nneasured , but not with cicnt accuracy to justify their use .
But in htcr 1ncmbers of the series to they ivcly belong the dispersions have been ) served with somelv greater accuracy , though experimental qtill leave to ) found ) , .
13 ' ' .
So 80 , 1908 .
1908 .
] Refraction Dispersion of Krypton , Xenon , etc. 447 and for phosphorus ( Cuthbertson and Metcalfe ) Similarly , the for ( Mascart ) are , and for sulphur ( Cuthbertson and Metcalfe ) If we assume that in each group , where and ( / are constants for the group , the values of and calculated from these figules Inert ( calculated from and X ) Oxygen and sulphur . . .
2 .
Nitrogen and phosphoru . .
These numbers do not show any obvious relation , and more is required the law cau be traced further .
Thus , for example , the value of air cannot be deduced from the nitrogell : and oxygen here fronn observel .
S of reputation .
Mascart found ogen the values , and in diH'erent parts of the spectrum , and pointed out his values of nitrogen and could not be reconciled with his for air , and that more accurate determinations were required .
It should , however , be remarked that , though the values of .
helium , krypton , and xenon obtained by us were calculated with reference to air , the linear relation which we find would not be affected by any change in the number adopted for the dispersion of , which would increase or diminish all alike .
A error would affect their relation to Mr. 's values ; but a large error is not to be feared .
In the diagram , the position of mercury is icated , and it is plain that though it resembles the inert gases in monatomic in the gaseous state , it does not fall into line with them in regard to the relation between refrnctive and dispersive power .
It remains to consider the physical meaning of the from experiments .
On comparing Cauchy 's formula with the theoretical expression , [ Oct. ,3 , ( ption that the latter only one , for which is with If all inert ases it would follow that the square of the of the vibration the dispersion is equal to a constant plus a tcrm to the refractivity for infinite wave-length .
We pleasure in expressing thanks to Sir William and of . .
Moore for the loan of the yases ; to Prof. Trouton Prof. Porter , and the staff of the Physical tory of University College London , for much assistance and advice ; to the Society for a rant in aid of these iments .
ote By LoRlJ I by aves advance inally tend tlpon holl that the slol ) ) steeper and steeper onditions , there formed what is be } called akers 1 beacl ] of actcr , lout is tidal ) ores tions some iven j ' .
etica .
' clll ctll opposite llotiol .
then to ocit ) \ldquo ; [ ' velocity .
1 .
ilic 1 . .

