Observations and Experiments on Pus .
By George Pearson , M.D. F.R.S. Read July 5 , 1810 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1810 , p. 294 .
] The author prefaces the account of his experiments and observations on the nature and properties of purulent fluids , by an etymological disquisition concerning the origin of the word Pus , and the various senses which philologists may discover for the word xrvos , besides the distinct signification given to it by Hippocrates , of a thick , white , inodorous , uniformly smooth fluid , which is contained in an abscess .
From the etymology , Dr. Pearson next proceeds to the history of the several opinions that have been entertained respecting the formation of purulent matters , and of the characters by which different persons have endeavoured to distinguish real pus , from such purulent fluids as ought rather to be considered as modifications of mucus .
Since nothing appears to have been added since the date of Mr. Home 's dissertation on pus , which was written in the year 1798 , Dr. Pearson 's history concludes with an outline of Mr. Home 's account of the nature of pus .
According to him , pus is composed of globules swimming in a transparent aqueous fluid .
The globules , on which its opacity depends , are formed subsequently to the secretion of the transparent fluid .
They are not soluble in cold water , like those of blood , but are decomposed by boiling water ; and the fluid in which they swim is not coagulable by heat , as serum , but is coagulable by sal-ammoniac , which does not coagulate serum .
Dr. Pearson 's examination of pus is divided into six sections , of which the first treats of the simple and obvious properties ; and lie distinguishes four different kinds of pus .
1 .
The cream-like and equally consistent .
2 .
The curdy of unequal consistence .
3 .
The serous , or thin kind .
4 .
The thick , viscid , or slimy .
Of course , as he examines , under the name of pus , fluids so different from each other , he obtains results which differ accordingly in the qualities and quantities of their ingredients .
In the second section the agency of caloric is observed .
According to the author , all kinds of pus are coagulated between 160 ?
and 165 ?
of Fahrenheit .
By continued heat the water .
is evaporated , and there remains a dry brittle mass , amounting to about one seventh or one eighth of the original weight .
By exposure to greater heat in a crucible of platina , the greatest part of this residuum was consumed , and there remained only the salts of the serum fused together , and amounting to 7th , ,-dth , or , -dth , of the original quantity of pus employed .
'These , says the author , consisted chiefly of muriate of soda , phosphate of lime , potash , with strong indication of carbonate of lime , 4 and a sulphate , beside traces of phosphate of magnesia , oxide of iron , and vitrifiable matter ( probably silica ) .
The different kinds of pus are next mixed with large quantities of water , and the matter which subsides examined separately from the water .
In the same manner they are next mixed with alcohol , and afterwards with acetic acid , but without any remarkable results .
Dr. Pearson also made various attempts to discover a criterion by which to distinguish pus from mucus ; but after trying the agency of sulphuric , nitric , and muriatic acids , he says he could by these discover no constant characteristic property of these substances by such experiments .
By alkalies also , he was not more successful ; nor did the subsequent addition of acids to the solution afford criteria which could be depended upon , as has been supposed by other experimentalists .
After trial of several different neutral salts , he observed the same effect from sal-ammoniac which had been noticed by Mr. Hunter , and was considered by him as coagulation : but Dr. Pearson gives it the name of inspissation , and observes , that this effect is not produced in expectorated matter by the same salt ; so that this is undoubtedly a criterion , as it was supposed to be by Mr. Hunter .
From the whole of his experiments , Dr. Pearson infers that pus essentially consists of three distinct substances : first , an animal oxide in the form of fine curdy particles , not soluble in water , not coagulable into one mass by hot water ; secondly , a limpid fluid , like serum of blood , and like it coagulable by heat or by alcohol ; and thirdly , innumerable spherical particles , visible only by the microscope , not soluble in hot or cold water , and specifically heavier than water .
He observes also , that other extraneous matters are sometimes mixed with pus : that whenever pus is fetid , it is in the state of putrefactive fermentation ; that the several ingredients in pus are products of secretion ; that the varieties of purulent matter depend on the proportion of its essential ingredients ; that the saline ingredients before named are dissolved in the serous fluid , and that the quantity of these is less than in an equal quantity of expectorated matter , but more than in an equal quantity of serum of blood .
That besides the consistence of pus depending upon the proportion of its essential ingredients , some difference may also arise from the mode or state of coagulation of the matter which gives the opacity .
According to the above inferences , the author conceives that a distinct and definite notion of the substance to be considered as pus is exhibited , and that it will now be readily ascertained what is and what is not pus , by a few easy experiments .
But since it is frequently disguised by the admixture of other matters , and a degree of ambiguity arises , especially in pulmonic diseases , he concludes by endeavouring to elucidate the subject , by remarks on puriform matters expectorated in different cases of pulmonary disorders .

