A paper was also read , entitled , " On Fibre : " additional observations .
By Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.S. , Lond. and Ed. On examining coagulating blood , the author finds that it contains discs of two different kinds ; the one comparatively pale ; the other , very red .
It is in the latter discs that a filament is formed ; and it is these discs which enter into the formation of the clot ; the former , or the pale discs , being merely entangled in the clot , or else remain ?
ing in the serum .
He thinks that the filament escaped the notice of former observers , from their having directed their attention almost exclusively to the undeveloped discs which remained in the serum , and thus conceived that the blood-discs are of subordinate import ?
ance , and are not concerned in the evolution of fibrin .
To render the filament distinctly visible , Dr. Barry adds a chemi ?
cal reagent capable of removing a portion of the red colouring matter , without altogether dissolving the filament .
He employs for this purpose chiefly a solution of one part of nitrate of silver in 120 parts of distilled water ; and sometimes also the chromic acid .
He admits that the use of these reagents would , on account of their destructive tendency when concentrated , be objectionable as proofs of the absence of any visible structure ; but as the point to be proved is that a certain specific structure does exist , he contends that the same appearance would not equally result from the chemi ?
cal actions of reagents so different as are those of chrome and the salts of mercury and of silver .
After the appearance of the fila ?
meant , thus brought to light , has become familiar to the eye , it may be discerned in the blood-discs , when coagulation has commenced , without any addition whatever .
Those blood-discs of the newt , which contain filaments , often assume the form of flask-like vesicles , the membranes of which exhibit folds , converging towards the neck , where , on careful examination , a minute body may be seen protruding .
This body is the extremity of the filament in question , its protrusion being occasionally such as admit of its remarkable structure being recognised .
The author proceeds to describe various appearances which he has observed in the coagulum of the blood , and which strongly resemble those met with in the tissues of the body , and are obviously referable to a similar process of formation .
He bears testimony to the accuracy of the delineations of coagulated blood given by Mr. Gulliver .
One of the most remarkable phenomena discovered by the author in the coagulation of the blood is the evolution of red colouring matter ; a change corresponding to that which he had previously observed to take place in the formation of the various structures of the body out of the corpuscles of the blood .
He considers the production of filaments as constituting the essential cir ?
cumstance in coagulation .
He conjectures that the notched or granulated fibres noticed in the blood by Professor Mayer , may have been of the same kind as the flat , grooved , and compound filaments described by himself ; but he thinks that , in that case , Mayer 's explanation of their mode of origin must be erroneous ; for they may be seen to be produced by a portion of the blood not mentioned by him , namely , the corpus ?
cles .
Mr. Addison 's discovery of globules in the uppermost stratum of inflammatory blood , and of their influence in the formation of the buffy coat , is confirmed by Dr. Barry , who remarks that these glo ?
bules are altered red blood-discs .
That the blood corpuscles are reproduced by means of parent-cells , as suggested by Mr. Owen and by the author , is confirmed by the observations of Dr. Remak ; but the author had long ago indicated a division of the nucleus as being more particularly the mode of reproduction , not only of those corpuscles , but of cells in general .
With this conjecture the observations of Remak on the blood-corpuscles of the foetal chrck fully accord .
Whether the author 's further speculation , namely , that the parent-cells are altered red blood-discs , is correct , still remains to be seen .
The phenomenon of the " breaking off short , " or notching of the fasciculus of a voluntary muscle in a transverse cleavage of the fibre , is regarded by Dr. Barry as a natural consequence of the interlacing of the larger spirals , which he has described in a former paper ; the fracture , in proceeding directly across the fasciculus , taking the direction in which there is least resistance .
The position of the filament in the blood-corpuscle is represented as bearing a striking resemblance to that of the young in the ovum of certain intestinal worms , the filaments of which are reproduced by spontaneous division .
The author subjoins the following quaere , " Is the blood-corpuscle to be regarded as an ovum ?
"

