218 Mr. G- .
T. Beilby .
Surface in Crystalline [ May 28 , " Surface Flow in Crystalline Solids under Mechanical Disturbance .
" By G- .
T. Beilby .
Communicated by F. H. Neville , F.R.S. Received in revised form May 23 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1903 .
[ Plates 9 and 10 .
] In a paper read before the British Association at Glasgow , in 1901 , and in a further paper communicated to the Royal Society in February , 1902 , I described certain observations on the surface structure of metals and other solids .
These observations went to show that the effect of mechanical treatment of metals by cutting tools or by polishing agents is to produce a surface layer or film whose structure and appearance are distinct from those of the undisturbed substance below .
This surface layer has no appearance of crystalline structure , but it has a certain structure granular or scalelike , which lends itself to the formation of smooth , rounded , or flowing forms like those assumed by a viscous liquid .
It was also observed that the edges of a piece of ductile metal which has been torn asunder , generally , if not invariably , present the same appearance of viscous flow and of granular or scale-like structure .
Mr. F. H. Neville having suggested that the appearance of granular or spicular structure which is seen by oblique illumination might be due to the presence on the metal surface of crystalline facets so minute as to be themselves invisible but capable of producing spots of light like fixed stars seen through a telescope , the apparent size of the spots being solely determined by the aperture of the object glass , I arranged to make a fresh series of observations , using an oil immersion lens of the highest numerical aperture and illumination by normally reflected rays .
The result of these observations has been that under the more exacting conditions , the general appearance of the surface suggests , as strongly as ever , the flow of a viscous , semi-solid substance , while nothing of the nature of crystalline facets has been detected .
In speculum metal it was first noticed that the stages in the flow of the surface layer during polishing could be definitely traced as it spread over and across the ridges and furrows of the crystalline metal below ; figs. 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 show the formation of the surface layer and its removal by solution .
Speculum metal being an alloy , it was felt that in this case the effects of flow might to some extent depend on the presence of the eutectic in which the crystalline grains are embedded .
In order , therefore , to eliminate this possible complication the same observations were repeated using a piece of pure crystalline antimony .
In this also the appearances of flow were unmistakable , being even more marked than in speculum metal .
1903 .
] Solids under Mechanica Disturbance .
219 The experiment was made by filing a flat surface on the antimony with a very fine watchmaker 's file .
Even Avith this smooth file the surface of the antimony Avas a good deal broken into crystalline ridges and holloAvs by the splintering of the brittle metal .
After as flat a face had been obtained as Avas possible AArith this tool , it Avas rubbed , still in the direction of the file marks , on the finest emery paper ( No. 00 French ) till the file marks had disappeared , only the deeper pits and hollows remaining .
Fig. 2 shows the surface at this stage , from which it is seen that the general character of the ridges and furroAVs left by the emery is smooth and rounded and that the smaller pits , Avhich had resulted from the breaking out of crystalline chips , are in many cases losing their angularity and assuming a rounded form .
The specimen was next rubbed across the line of the emery scratches on a polishing block covered Avith AA'ashleather sprinkled Avitli the finest rouge .
Fig. 3 shows the surface at this stage .
The polishing has spread the metal across the ridges left by the emery like a auscous paste , sometimes filling the furrows and sometimes bridging them OArer .
In some cases the line of the furrow can only be traced by the toav of holes in the covering film .
The circular form and the smooth rounded edges of the holes are quite consistent Avith the other appearances of viscous flow .
A part of the surface Avas now etched with a solution of potassium cyanide .
Fig. 4 shows the effect of the soh'ent in removing the layer Avhich has been spread 0Arer the surface by the polishing .
The portion of the original photograph , which is reproduced here , shoAvs on the left side the effect of the removal of the surface , and on the right a portion Avhich Avas protected from the action of the soh'ent by \rarnish .
The removal of the surface layer has again uncoArered the furroAvs and ridges left by the emery , and the impression coiweyed by the preceding photograph ( fig. 3 ) is confirmed , namely , that the ridges and furroAvs had been covered over , not levelled down or remoA'ed .
It is further seen that the understructure of the ridges is rough and crystalline , the appearance of the Aoav given by the polishing haA'ing been only skin deep .
In examining the specimen under the microscope the attention was arrested by the curious appearance presented by tAvo of the pits on the surface , which appeared as if C0Arered over Avith a film of greatly diminished reflecting poAver as compared Avith the rest of the surface .
A search over other parts of the surface disclosed a number of similar pits which shoAved the coArering film Avith greater distinctness .
A group of these pits is shoAvn on fig. 5 ; in these the solvent has acted on the film less than it has on the covering of the pit seen in fig. 4 , and the continuation of the surface markings can be traced across the film over the pit .
On another part of the surface Avhich had not been exposed to the 220 Mr. G. T. Beilby .
Surface Flow in Crystalline [ May 23 , .
1 solvent a pit was discovered in which the film appeared to be in process of building up , fig. 6 .
It is difficult to believe that the flowing metal could be carried across the pit from side to side without the help of some support from below .
It seems most probable that this support has been provided by small granules or flakes scraped off at an earlier stage , which had lodged in the pit filling it loosely up to the general M surface level .
Granules or flakes have been noticed in polishing speculum metal , and their lodgment in the deeper scratches on the surface has been actually observed .
Fig. 7 shows a surface across which a very fine scratch with a needle has been made .
On polishing with emery across the line of the scratch the shavings of metal were caught and heaped up in the deep furrow made by the point of the needle .
These observations on the polishing of antimony show plainly that under certain conditions this brittle , crystalline metal can be spread over an irregular surface so as to form a smooth varnish-like covering by which all the asperities are smoothed and rounded into gently-flowing curves .
It is further seen that this surface layer or film when , as in the pits of figs. 5 and 6 , it is not in solid contact with the more massive metal underneath , has a much diminished reflecting power .
This illustrates in a new way the fact which I have referred to in my earlier papers , that metal films as they become reduced in thickness show a diminished reflecting power , a corresponding increase of transparence at the same time taking place .
The pressure necessary to produce surface flow in antimony is very slight .
The specimen was rubbed back and forwards on the leatherfaced block by the pressure of the fore-finger .
The seizing of the metal surface by the rouged leather could be distinctly felt as the specimen was passed over it , and was obviously more marked with rouged than with unrouged leather .
On a moderately flat surface the seizing seems to take place uniformly all over the surface and not merely at a few points at a time , so that each passage over the leather changes the whole surface slightly .
When glass is furrowed by fine emery and then polished across the furrows appearances of flow similar to those seen in metals can he detected .
I have not yet succeeded in making photographs which show this in a satisfactory way , but hope to do so soon .
The extremely slight mechanical treatment which will suffice to cause molecular movement and flow on the surface of , a highly crystalline substance is seen in a remarkable way in the behaviour of calc-spar .
A crystal of Iceland spar was split so as to present a fresh smooth face which had never been touched or rubbed in any way .
A small drop of very dilute hydrochloric acid ( containing about 0'2 per cent. HC1 ) was placed on this fresh face and after 10 to 15 seconds was removed by touching the spot with a torn edge of soft filter paper .
m 1903 .
] Solids under Mechanical Disturbance .
221 The liquid tends to spread over the face in all directions , no doubt owing to the perfect freedom from dust and grease of the surface .
but , as far as possible , it is desirable to confine the etching action to one spot so that a comparison between the etched and unetched portions may be more readily made .
Slight etching resulted from the treatment , but the etched surface , though slightly undulating and irregular , showed no new structure or markings .
When the experiment is repeated a number of times it is generally found that the surface , though slightly lowered where the acid has acted , is otherwise unaltered .
The face of the crystal was now firmly stroked a few times in one direction with the point of the fore-finger covered with clean soft wash-leather .
Under the microscope the surface was still smooth and unmarked by the stroking .
A drop of the dilute acid was placed on a part of the stroked face which had not been touched by the previous application of acid .
The drop flattened to a hemisphere but did not spread .
After 10 to 15 seconds it was removed as before .
The pit produced had .well-defined edges and the flat bottom was covered with furrows and ridges running in the direction of the strokes with the finger .
This experiment was repeated in a variety of ways and on all of the three parallel sets of faces .
The direction of the strokes was varied so as to make a number of different angles with the cleavages .
In every case the result was the same , even a single stroke showed unmistakably on the etched surface .
Plate 9 , fig. 1 , shows a part of the etched surface .
The unetched portion has the smooth glass-like surface of the natural face , only a few very faint scratches being visible under the most searching examination .
Faint cleavage lines crossing the face indicate that the stroking had not been parallel with any of the natural cleavages .
The number and depth of the flow lines is influenced by the amount of the stroking and by the pressure exerted by the finger .
Flow lines were distinctly developed by a single firm stroke in which , it was roughly estimated , the pressure exerted did not exceed 4 lbs. per square inch .
In this case the flow lines were obviously fewer than , they were when a number of strokes had been given .
Some indication of the depth to which the molecular disturbance has penetrated is given by the additional time required for the acid to dissolve and remove all traces of the disturbance .
If the acid is left on the surface for a sufficiently long time , for instance , with the acid in question , for 30 to 60 seconds , no trace of the flow lines remains , and 222 Mr. G. T. Beilby .
Surface Flow Crystalline [ May 23 , the etched surface presents the same appearance as the etched surface of an untouched face , the limits of the disturbance have been reached .
The depth to which the disturbance penetrates is not much affected by continued stroking .
The influence of the stroking is therefore limited to a very thin surface film , but within this limit it is quite unmistakable .
If a stroked and etched surface is further stroked its details become rounded and glazed over .
The nature of the structural change which has taken place in the surface layer of the Iceland spar as it is disclosed by etching will be referred to in another connection .
For the present it is proposed simply to discuss these observations in their immediate bearing on the surface flow of crystalline solids .
The most striking facts brought to light by this experiment are ; that a solid structure can be profoundly modified below its surface while the surface itself appears intact ; and further , that this change can be brought about by so gentle an agent as the softly covered finger .
There appear to be two directions in which the explanation of the first fact may be sought ; either there has been a transmission of stress from the surface which has produced a state of strain along the lines followed by the moving points of the polishing material ; or there has been a movement of translation of the molecules resulting in flow of the substance similar to that which is seen at the surface of crystalline metals .
The first of these suggestions finds very little support from the facts of the case .
The flow lines are equally deep and distinct whether they run parallel to or at an angle with the cleavages .
If the flow lines exist in the stroked but unetched surface as hidden clefts it might reasonably be expected that the chief effect of the stroking would be felt along the natural cleavages ; but this is not the case .
Again , the prompt and uniform action of the solvent in first removing the whole of the uppermost layer of the surface , suggests that this covering film is fairly homogeneous and that it is not a kind of mosaic with concealed joints .
This remark applies also to the kind of under-structure disclosed by the removal of the surface ; the rounded details of the ridges and furrows do not in the least suggest the clean sharp planes and angles of cleavages .
It seems , on the whole , most probable that the surface molecules are set in gliding motion by the moving leather , so that they form an extremely thin film of fluid among which the larger particles or aggregates are dragged , causing the furrows which are afterwards disclosed by etching .
The film of gliding molecules will be subject to surface tension , which would account for the perfectly smooth surface which is left by polishing .
The fluid film when left to itself would naturally close over the asperities like an unbroken skin , thus covering up all trace of the disturbance caused by the stroking .
Solids under Mechanical Disturbance .
1903 .
] The experiments with antimony show the same phenomena in a much rougher way , and in that case we gain a slight clue to the mechanism by which the flow is produced .
Beginning at the rougher end of the polishing process , we can see that the projecting points of the file plough their way through the metal carrying with them a certain proportion of it , but also leaving behind in the furrows and on the ridges a smooth covering film of metal , which has flowed at the moment when the moving point with its burden of accumulated metal passed over it .
With the emery grains the same operation-is repeated , but in their case there is less ploughing action , and the proportion of the metal which adheres to the polishing agent is much greater and the flowing action is more pronounced .
When the rouge stage is reached there appears to be no cutting or ploughing action to speak of , the particles of rouge seem to have the power of seizing the surface so as to set the molecules gliding without actually removing much metal .
As the molecules or molecular aggregates glide over each other within the range of their molecular forces , the conditions of the liquid state are to a ' considerable extent fulfilled and the forms assumed by the surface are determined , as in a viscous liquid , by surface tension .
This view will be more fully discussed in connection with observations on " The Effect of Heat on Thin Films and Surface Layers " and on " The Aggregation of Solids under the Influence of the Molecular Forces " which will be detailed in Parts II and III of this paper .
Whether the minute elements which are made to glide over each other in a state of comparative freedom are individual molecules , or whether they are aggregates of molecules is still an open question ; but numerous observations have been collected which may throw light on the matter .
These it is proposed to present in Part IY of this paper on " Granular and Spicular Structure and the Transparence of Metals .
" In a previous communication , various experiments were described which showed that glass and other silicates in a finely divided state can be welded together into larger masses by pressure .
In this way a mass of thin films of blown glass was pressed into a compact layer .
In grinding glass in an agate mortar it was found that the rolling under the pestle tended to aggregate the finer particles into granular masses .
In recent experiments with calc-spar it has been found that the appearance of surface flow can be produced by pressure .
One of the faces of a crystal of Iceland spar was rubbed , first on a fine file and then on the emery block till a fine grained surface was produced .
By strongly pressing the roughened face on a smooth , hard , slightly convex surface , little patches of flow were developed .
These patches were perfectly distinct from the roughened surface by which they were surrounded , and their boundaries were well defined and flowing like those of a drop of liquid pressed between two plates of glass .
Tho surface of these patches had the perfect smoothness of a liquid surface .
224 Mr. G. T. Beilby .
Surface Crystalline [ May 23 , A thin field of magnesium oxide was obtained by holding a glass slip over burning magnesium .
Films of any degree of thickness may be readily obtained in this way .
The film selected was translucent , and was bluish-white by reflected light .
The rounded end of an agate pestle was lightly pressed on the film and slightly rolled upon it .
As the film adhered more and more firmly to the glass , the pressure was increased .
The experiment is not always successful , as the film of oxide sometimes sticks to the pestle instead of to the glass , but with a little care it is easy to obtain flowed or welded patches of magnesium oxide .
These patches are smooth and transparent , like glass ; their structure will be referred to again in another connection .
In beating or planishing metal on a smooth surface , the flow is not so strictly confined to the surface nor to the exact spot at which the pressure is applied , as it is in the case of hard , brittle substances .
In the softer metals the flow proceeds much further from the centre of pressure than it does in the harder .
Very minute crystalline fragments of antimony or bismuth can be beaten into scales , and their flow appears to be as perfect as that of gold or silver .
As the size of the particles is increased , the outer edge of the minute plates developes notches and radial cracks , showing that the limits of flow have been exceeded .
It appears not unlikely than an accurate method of comparing the hardness and malleability of metals might be based on the behaviour of minute particles during their flow under uniform conditions of pressure .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES 9 and 10 .
Plate 9 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Iceland spar showing etched and unetclied surface .
Light , transmitted slightly oblique , green screen .
Objective 16 mm. Apocliromat .
N.A. 0'3 .
x 215 .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Crystalline antimony after rubbing on fine emery paper .
Light , normal reflected , green screen .
Objective 3 mm. Oil immersion .
Apochromat .
N.A. 14 .
x 775 .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; The same after polishing on rouged leather .
Light and objective as in fig. 2 .
x 775 .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; The same after partial etching with KCy .
Light and objective as in fig. 2 .
x 775 .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; The same showing pits covered with film of flowed metal .
Light and objective as in fig. 2 .
x 775 .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; The same showing another pit over which a film is being built up by the flowing metal .
Light and objective as in fig. 2 .
x 775 .
All of the above are from direct photographs without enlargement orjreduction .
Fig. 3 .
X775 Fig.4* .
XpS , Fig. 5 .
X77S Fig. 6 .
X Fig.7 : X1500 Fig.8 .
^ x 775 % Solids under Mechanical Disturbance .
Plate 10 .
\#165 ; is 7 Speculum metal , the broad horizontal band is a very fine needle scratch in which the particles of metal from the emery scratches have been intercepted .
Light , normal reflected , green screen .
Objective 3 mm. Oil immersion .
Apochromat .
N.A. 1'4 .
x 1500 .
I Pig .
8.\#151 ; Tool steel hardened and tempered showing flow of grinding .
Light and objective as in fig 7 .
* 775 .
the metal during emery p-ig .
9 , _Speculum metal polished on rouged leather across the furrows left by fine emery , showing flow of metal across the furrows .
Light and objective as in fig. 7 .
* 775 .
| Fig. 10.-The same further polished .
The outlines of the crystalline grains show under the surface .
Light and objective as in fig. 7 .
x 775 .
I Fig. 11.__The same with the surface film removed by KOy showing the grains surrounded by the eutectic .
Light and objective as in fig. 7 .
x 7/ 5 .
I Fig. 12.\#151 ; The same again polished on rouged leather , showing the formation of a fresh film on the surface .
Light and objective as in fig. 7 .
x 775 .
All of the above are from direct photographs without enlargement or reduction .

