284 Mr. J. F. Bullar on [ Apr. 4 , but these lines , which are reversed , are of such great width that it is at present impossible to say whether they are coincident with lines in the solar spectrum .
April4 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.O.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Notice was given that , with a view to facilitate observation of the Solar Eclipse of July 29 , the Pennsylvania Railroad Company will convey observers , being private persons , from Philadelphia or New York to Denver and hack at reduced fares .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Development of the Parasitic Isopoda .
" By J. F. Bullar , B.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. Michael Foster , F.R.S. , Prelector of Physiology in Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received March 14 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains an account of some points in the development of the Cymothoa oestroides and C. parallela of Milne-Edwards .
The work was mainly carried on in the Zoological Station at Naples , and the author takes this opportunity of returning his best thanks to Dr. Dohm and Dr. Eisig for the kind way in which they forwarded his researches .
The eggs were prepared in the way described by Bobretzky in his paper on the development of Oniscus mur("Zeit .
fur Wiss .
Zool. " Bd .
xxiv ) , namely , by heating them in water , and then hardening them , first in bichromate of potash , and then in alcohol , beginning with 70 cent , and gradually increasing the strength to absolute .
The sections were stained with Kleinenberg 's haematoxylin and mounted in Canada balsam .
The eggs when first laid are surrounded by a single membrane .
The earliest stages of segmentation were not observed ; the first described is that in which a circular patch of cells has appeared at one pole of the egg .
The cells are of considerable size and contain very large granular nuclei ; in the centre of the patch they are polygonal , and more than one layer deep , but at the edges they are flattened and form a single layer .
The blastoderm gradually spreads over the yolk , the cells on the 1878 .
] the Development of the Parasitic Isopoda .
dorsal surface being very tbin and difficult to recognise , while on the opposite side they form a thickened patch ( the future ventral wall of the embryo ) , which elongates , and soon shows traces of segmentation .
The procephalic lobes appear first , the other segments are formed in order from before backwards .
A second membrane is now formed round the egg .
The epiblast of the procephalic lobes soon becomes thickened , to form the cerebral ganglion .
At the most anterior end there is a separate mass on each side , but in front of the mouth the thickening is continuous right across ; it extends backwards , alolig the median line , to form the ventral nerve-cords and ganglia .
The mouth and , rather later , the anus appear as involutions of the epiblast .
Beneath the epiblast a second layer of scattered cells appears .
The limbs arise as hollow protuberances of the epiblast , filled with cells from the lower layer .
On the dorsal surface a peculiar organ , homologous with the " micropyle apparatus " of the Amphipods , is developed .
At a later stage it is situated in the first thoracic segment .
It disappears before the adult form is reached .
Just behind the mouth involution a solid mass of cells appears , from which the liver will be developed .
The nervous system , which at first consisted of a continuous mass of epiblast cells , becomes differentiated into a cellular and a fibrous portion .
The external layer of cells or epidermis is separated from it , and it becomes segmented so as to form a chain of separate ganglia .
The epiblast covering the head is thickened at a certain point on each side , and from these thickenings the eyes are developed .
The solid masses of cells representing the liver beconie converted into three csecal tubes , ou each side of the body , opening to the yolk , and quite distinct from both the fore and hind guts .
The heart appears above the hind gut in the abdomen .
The hind gut grows forwards very rapidly , and comes nearly into contact with the fore gut .
The liver caeca increase in size and become filled with oil-drops derived from the yolk .
It is now possible to demonstrate , by dissection , that the yolk is surrounded by an exceedingly thin membrane , continuous with the walls of the liver caeca , and opening into the point of junction of the fore and hind guts .
This membrane appears to contain nnclei .
As development proceeds the yolk gradually disappears , and the membrane surrounding it disappears also . .
The whole of the alimentary canal of the adult is formed from the fore and hind guts .
the paper an attempt is made to prove the truth of the suggestion , originally put forward by Dr. Dobrn , that the yolk membrane is 286 Dr. T. R. Robinson on the Determination of [ Apr. 4 , the morphological representative of the mid gnt , and that the liver really arises as a diverticulum from it .
Four varieties of embryos , taken from animals answering the description of 0 .
cestroides , are described ; but as it was found impossible to make out any differences in the adults , the question whether these varieties represent distinct species or polymorphic forms is left undecided .
II .
" On the Determination of the Constants of the Cup Anemometer .
by Experiments with a Whirling Machine .
" By the Rev. T. R. Robinson , D.D. , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received March 14,1878 .
( Abstract .
) Tn his description of the cup anemometer ( Transactions Royal Irish Academy , Yol .
XXII ) , Dr. Robinson inferred from experiments on a very limited scale with Robins ' whirling machine , that the ultimate ratio of the wind 's velocity to that of the centre of the cups =3 .
Some recent experiments by M. Dohrandt show that this number is too great ; but as some of the details appeared objectionable , and as they did not include all the necessary data for determining the constants , the author was desirous of repeating them .
He was enabled to do this by a liberal grant from the Royal Society , and the results are given in this paper .
After describing the apparatus and the locality in which it was established , he proceeds to explain the conditions of an anemometer 's action .
Considering only two opposite cups , and supposing them in motion , the pressure on the concave surface is as that surface and the square of the resultant of the wind 's velocity Y and v , that of the anemometer , and as a , the pressure of an unit Y on the cup normal to the arm .
This is opposed , 1 .
By the pressure of a similar resultant on the convex surfaces , and a , another coefficient , also normal to the arm , but quit9 different from a ; 2 .
By various resistances depending on v2 ; and 3 .
By the friction of the machine estimated at the centres of the cups .
a , and a are functions of V , v , and 0 , the angle which the wind makes with the arm , but it is impossible to determine them a priori in the present state of hydrodynamics .
It is , however , obvious that if Y be constant , the mean values of v , a , and a through one revolution will soon also become constant , and as the mean impelling and resisting forces balance each other , the condition of permanent motion is expressed by an equation of the form aY2\#151 ; 2/ 3Yv - \#187 ; yv2\#151 ; F=0 ; or y*__2xYv\#151 ; yv2\#151 ; -=0 ( I ) , which , if the constants are known , gives

