Helium and Argon , their Inactivity .
" Helium and Argon .
Part III .
Experiments which show the Inactivity of these Elements .
" By William Ramsay , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and J. Norman Collie , Ph. D. , F.R.S.E. Received April 22 , \#151 ; Read May 21 , 1893 .
To chronicle a list of failures is not an agreeable task ; and yet it is sometimes necessary , in order that the record of the behaviour of newly discovered substances may be a complete one .
It is with this object that we place on record an account of a number of experiments made to test the possibility of forming compounds of helium and argon .
It will be remembered that in our memoir on Argon , # Lord Rayleigh and Professor Ramsay described numerous experiments , made in the hope of inducing argon to combine , ail of which yielded negative results .
Two further experiments have been since made\#151 ; again without success .
1 .
The electric arc was maintained for several ' hours in an atmosphere of argon .
The electrodes were thin pencils of gas carbon , and , previous to the introduction of the argon , the arc was made in a vacuum , and all gas evolved was removed by pumping .
Argon was then admitted up to a known pressure , and the arc was again made .
A slow expansion took place ; one of the electrodes diminished in length , and the bulb became coated with a black deposit .
The resulting gas was treated with caustic soda and with a solution of ammoniacal cuprous chloride , and , on transference to a vacuum-tube , it showed the spectrum of argon along with a spectrum resembling that of hydrocarbons .
Having to leave off work at this stage , a short note was sent to the ' Chemical News ' on a Possible Compound of Argon .
On resuming work after the holidays , the gas was again investigated , and , on sparking with oxygen , carbon dioxide was produced .
But it was thought right again to treat the gas with cuprous chloride in presence of ammonia , and it now appeared that when left for a sufficient time in contact with a strong solution , considerable contraction took place , carbonic oxide being removed .
There can , therefore , be no doubt that , although apparently all gas had been removed from the carbon electrodes before admitting argon , some carbon dioxide must have been still occluded , probably in the upper part of the electrodes , and that the prolonged heating due to the arc had expelled this gas and converted it into monoxide .
It was , indeed , inexplicable how an expansion should have taken place unless by some such means ; for the combination of a monatomic gas must necessarily be accompanied by contraction .
It appears , therefore , certain that argon and carbon do not combine , even at * 'Phil .
Trans. , ' yoI .
186 , A. 54 Drs. W. Ramsay and J. Norman Collie .
the high temperature of the arc , where any product would have a chance of escaping decomposition by removing itself from the source of heat .
It is hardly necessary to point out that such a process lends itself to the formation of endothermic compounds such as acetylene , and it was to be supposed that if argon is capable of combination at all , the resulting compound must be produced by an endothermic reaction .
2 .
A product rich in barium cyanide was made by the action of producer gas on a mixture of barium carbonate and carbon at the intense temperature of the arc .
This product was treated by Dumas ' process so as to recover all nitrogen ; and , as argon might also have entered into combination , the nitrogen was absorbed by sparking .
All the nitrogen entered into combination with oxygen and soda , leaving no residue .
Hence it may be concluded that no argon enters into combination .
For the successful carrying out of these experiments we have to thank Mr. G. W. MacDonald .
3 .
A mixture of argon with the vapour of carbon tetrachloride was exposed for several hours to a silent discharge from a very powerful induction coil .
The apparatus was connected with a gauge which registered the pressure of the vapour of the tetrachloride and of the argon of which it was mixed .
Careful measurement of the pressure was made before commencing the experiment , and after its completion .
Although a considerable amount of other chlorides of carbon was produced , no alteration of pressure was noticeable ; the liberated chlorine having been absorbed by the mercury present .
Here again the argon did not enter into the reaction , but it was recovered without loss of volume .
The remaining experiments relate to attempts to produce compounds of helium .
The plan of operation was to circulate helium over the reagent at a bright red heat , and to observe whether any alteration in volume occurred\#151 ; an absorption of a few c.c. could have been observed\#151 ; or whether any marked change was produced in the reagent employed .
As a rule , after the reagent had been allowed to cool in the gas , all helium was removed with the pump , and the reagent was again heated to redness , so as , if a compound had been formed , to decompose it and expel the helium .
Every experiment gave negative results ; in no case was there any reason to suspect that helium had entered into combination .
A short catalogue of the substances tried may be given .
4 .
Sodium distilled in the current of gas , and condensed in drops with bright metallic lustre .
The glass tube in which it was heated became covered with a coating of 5 .
Silicon , which caused no absorption .
6 .
A mixture of beryllium oxide and magnesium , yielding metallic beryllium , was without action .
Helium and Argon , their Inactivity .
7 .
Zinc and , 8 , cadmium distilled over in the current of gas .
9 .
A mixture of boron oxide and magnesium dust , giving elemental boron , produced no absorption .
~ 10 .
Similarly , a mixture of yttrium oxide and magnesium dust had no effect .
11 .
Thallium was heated to bright redness in the gas , retaining its metallic lustre .
12 .
Titanium oxide mixed with magnesium dust was heated to bright redness , and caused no absorption .
13 .
Similar absence of action was pi'oved with thorium oxide and magnesium powder .
14 .
Tin and , 15 , lead , were heated to bright redness in the current of gas , and remained untarnished .
16 .
Phosphorus was distilled in the gas , and caused to pass through a length of combustion-tube heated to softening .
Some red phosphorus was formed , but no alteration of volume was noticed .
17 .
The same process ivas repeated with elemental arsenic .
18 .
Antimony and , 19 , bismuth , at a bright red heat , retained their metallic lustre .
20 .
Sulphur and , 21 , selenium , were treated in the same way as pliosphoi'us ; no action took place .
22 .
Uranium oxide , mixed with magnesium dust , was heated to bright redness in helium .
No change , except the reduction of the oxide , took place .
The mixture was allowed to cool slowly in the current , and the helium was removed with the pump till a phosphorescent vacuum was produced in a vacuum tube communicating with the circuit .
The mixture was re-heated , and no helium was evolved\#151 ; not even enough to show a spectrum .
The vacuum remained unimpaired .
It had been hoped that elements with high atomic weight , such as thallium , lead , bismuth , thorium , and uranium might have effected combination , but the hope was vain .
23 .
A mixture of helium with its own volume of chlorine was exposed to a silent discharge for several hours .
The chlorine was contained in a reservoir , sealed on to the little apparatus which had the form of an ozone apparatus .
No change in level of the sulphuric acid confining the chlorine was detected after the temperature , raised by the discharge , had again become the same as that of the room .
Hence helium and chlorine do not combine .
24 .
Metallic cobalt in powder does not absorb helium at a red heat .
25 .
Platinum black does not occlude it .
26 .
It is not caused to combine by passage over a mixture of soda-lime and potassium nitrate heated to bright redness .
This was hardly to be expected , for it resists the action of oxygen in presence of caustic soda , even when heated by the sparks which traverse it .
56 Lord .Rayleigh .
On the Amount of Argon and 27 .
A mixture of soda-lime and .
sulphur consisting of polysulphides causes no change of volume in a current of helium passed over it at a bright red heat .
28 .
Induction sparks in an ozone apparatus passed through a mixture of helium with benzene vapour in presence of liquid benzene for many hours , gave no change of volume .
The benzene was , of course , altered , but the sum of the pressures of the helium and the benzene-vapour remained as at first .
Had helium been removed , contraction would have occurred .
This ends the catalogue of negative experiments .
Any compound of helium capable of existence will probably be endothermic , and the two methods of producing endothermic compounds , where no simultaneous exothermic reaction is possible , are exposure to a high temperature , at which endothermic compounds show greater stability , and the influence of the silent electric discharge .
These methods have been tried , so far in vain .
There is , therefore , every reason to believe that the elements , helium and argon , are non-valent , that is , are incapable of forming compounds .
" On the Amount of Argon and Helium contained in the Gas from the Bath Springs."* By Lord Rayleigh , See .
R.S. Received April 30 , \#151 ; Read May 21 , 1896 .
The .
presence of helium in the residue after removal of nitrogen from this gas was proved in a former paper , f but there was some doubt as to the relative proportions of argon and helium .
A fresh sample , kindly collected by Dr. Richardson , has therefore been examined .
Of this 2500 c.c. , submitted to electric sparks in presence of oxygen , gave a final residue of 37 c.c. , after removal of all gases known until recently .
The spectrum of the residue , observed at atmospheric pressure , showed argon , and the D3 line of helium very plainly .
The easy visibility of D3 suggested the presence of helium in some such proportion as 10 per cent. , and this conjecture has been confirmed by a determination of the refractivity of the mixture .
It may be remembered that while the refractivity of argon approaches closely that of air , the relative number being 0'961 , the refractivity of helium ( as supplied to me by Professor Ramsay ) is very low , being only O'146 on the same scale .
If we assume that any sample * I am reminded by Mr. Whitaker that helium is appropriately associated with the Bath waters , which , according to some antiquaries , were called by the Romans Aquce Solis .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Froc .
, ' vol. 59 , p. 206 , 1896 .

