]\gt ; Dr. A. RusSell .
The static I*vbfeWb a Hence , as from to , it follows that il eases to , the limit when : de ] ived froJn its expression iu terms of .
the ) roxinlate expression for see may be w1itten .
Hence , when , the eros of are given approximat the equation .
: dlaw the of the funotions we see that , near the intersection of the graphs the former has a slope and the latter a negative slope , and a good estimate of bhe at bhe intersection can be obtained by valuea of side of the intersection and thetl using the principle of proporl iQnal p Electrostatic Problem of a Conducting in a By ALEXANDER RUSSELL , M.A. , D.Se .
' .
I.E.E. ( Communicated Dr. C. Chree , F.R.S. Received October 4 , } The matbematical problems arise in electrodes have often been discussed .
of theIu is Chap. VIII , , of the second edition of the author 's .
treatiss ting Current Theory .
' The blem , however , of ere in a has barely been Sir W. numerical ults w he says were oalculatsd for ) of conducting spheres " " in the of a hollow tilated and conductor As a } atter of fact , however the only to two equal conducting spheres ffltertlal oslashth@Y : phere , utions f : coreoslashtt on in special , to how the nnIneriral ouIld in ineotion with the following problems , which in physical .
scienoe : ( 1 ) The calculation of a spherical Ilser .
when the centre of the inner sphere acdngide with the centre of oavity ; ( 2 ) the calculation of the actin on the nner s ; the calculation of the ffia dielectric .
The first problexn , of bostatic to the e1rnetic by of a .
condenser .
The solution is also of bUStrncting spherical oondenssrs of ariable eapacity .
of the second problem is of value , as it enables us to an Olneter by one sphere i1iside another .
force for a given between them is in certain cases hen he leres are external to one another , and errors due to the coriduoting or iusulating materials in the neighbourhood are The final problem\mdash ; the calculation of maximum value of the gradient between the two spheres\mdash ; arises when the ngths of ating materials them as the dielectric of a The eleeAric pressure between the electrodes increased at ( the value of the tive voltage is noted .
The .tric strengths of dielectrics is a problem of ) reat n of nding these .
values are at present being considered and tested navy by 1anels of the Research CoInmittee of the Institution of Bngineers .
1 .
between the Two Sphercs .
and , be the total charges on the inner outer conductors and be their potentials .
If be their coefficients , and the luutual capacity coefficient , , ( 1 ) .
( 2 ) , we have oharge on the inner side of the outer 2nd ed. ex. 47 , p. 292 ; L. Cohen , of Standards " " The Deter208 Dr. A. .
The eirost t : conductor , and therefore is the cbarge on the be the capacity of the outside , we have But from ( 1 ) and 2 ) and hence and In the problem we are considering the value of X is .
, s the capacity of the condenser formed by the inner outer and be the radii of the sphere and of the cavity let be the distance between their centres .
By Xdvin 's 1nethod of we get where , and denotes the remainder of the series after five terms .
If we write for in , we get the known for for two external spheres .
Except when both hnd aoe compared with , ( 4 ) is of little use for numerical tation .
If we introduce , the radius of the sphere which two orthogonally , and two new vaiiables and defined by the : into the formula it fies considerably .
It is also convenient to denote by } .
Il is easy to and Writing for we ; and ; We also have Dr. A. Russell .
The rostutic Another useful expresslon which enables us to obtained as follows .
Writing for , we get by where . .
are Bernoulli 's numbers , and A is a coustant which be determined in a.ny particular case .
The limitations of theore stated by aid of a theorem given in WhiBtaker and Analysis , ' S .
For our purpose it is sufficient to series on the right-hand side is semi-convergent , but in any in it is applicab]e the value of the lasf , term included in the enables us to see the accuracy obtained .
Applying theorem ( F ) to formula ( 5 ) , we get the stant A beiug equal to zero .
That A vanishes sily be making very great in ( 8 ) .
In uany cases the simpler formttla enables us to find with higl1 accuracy .
If we put , we from ( 8 ) is small the followin } . . .
where .
is ffi le subtract ( 10 ) frolu , and notice that , we get , as purposes hen and are small , either equation ( 10 ) or ibe used .
In the particular case when , and therefore , ( 12 ) 72167 ( Euler 's constant ) .
and ( 11 ) can also be readily deduced from ] the )eneral given in a preceding paper .
the function ] previously have ritkn - .
Tables of the values are ished .
hen the di stanca between the spheres is small compared with possible distance between their centres , we get , on su .
for in formulae ( C ) and ( D ) , and expanding in powers of the following approximate equations ab , we get .
( 15 ) ooting the sixth and higher powers of small quautities in ( 10 ) we get vol. 1 , p. 241 .
Dr. A. .
The staeie The values of and can be found from aoe no difficulty in calculating the value of ) in every .
by formuIae and When is so small that can be neglected compared with As an ation of the application of these formulae , let first ca the capacity of the spherical condenseY used by Rosa DorBey i experiments for the determination of .
The dimensions of this coo are given on p. 459 of their classical paper .
( .
ante ) .
At a temperature they found that and ' When the inner sphere is central w6 should the , refore have ( say ) .
They give measurements of the capacity of the condenser small , and they also give the formula , for calculating in this case .
Taking the case when cm .
, and using ( l@ ) , we get We shall apply some of the formulae given above to oheck this Putting in ( 7 ) we get We easily find from ( D ) and ) hat Hence we get If we put in ( 7 ) , we get : ' .
: Hence , substituting the numerioal ; .flnd..that ) Similarly , making ) , urroy by have to find the value of about 40 S1\mdash ; 0000867 ' value is too great by about .
in the $utho1l ' the measured value seems eiror , therefore , of about 3 parts in 10,000 .
for in a series of expanding powers of can be mueb ulty from ( 19 ) .
We find that .
( 21 ) , we , unful formula when is small .
the values of and given above we get , by ( 21 ) , equal to one another formula 21 ) is practically The fonmula , however , can only be used when we are the nxth and higher powers of , and so must be small M1rorioal example let us suppose that , and is and we should expect that the value of ( 21 ) would be too small .
In this case oosh and .
We thus easily find by the is , ftre , too small by about 1 part and .
In this oase and qnengly : Maxwell 's we tk labour involved in Using we gel Dr. A. Russell .
The Electrostatic Problem of Similarly by ( 11 ) we get hence As a further numerical example let us suppose that and .
In this case , , and and .
We.also have .
Subin ( 12 ) we .
In this case ( 10 ) gives the same answer with very little additional labour and ( 7 ) is even more suitable .
The error introduced by using ( 21 ) , however , is about 2 per cent. , being As a final example , let us suppose that , and We have , and hence substituting in ( 14 ) and ( 15 ) we get and .
Hence by ( 16 ) The true value of found by ( 12 ) is .
The agreement is therefore quite satisfactory .
When the spheres are very close gether , ( 17 ) gives accurate results .
If we write for in ( 17 ) we get the value of for two external spheres of radii and respectively at a microscopic distance apart .
* 2 .
The Blectrostat Forcc on the Inner Sphere .
Let denote the electrostatic energy stored up between the two spheres , and let and be their potentlals .
If be the capacity between them , we have and thus , if be the attractive force when the potential difference is maintained constant , we have Let us first suppose that small compared with unity .
In this case we get , , ( 22 ) approximately .
Hence , for small values of , the attractive force varies as the distance between the centre of the sphere and the centre of the oavity .
It is easy to see , from the definitions of , and , that ; ; ; and * Russell , 'Alternating Currents , ' 2nd .
ed. , vol. 1 , p. 241 .
Condueting Sphere in a Cavity .
thus get by ( 5 ) When , is small , the summation of the three series given in this formula laborious .
It is therefore better to oonvert them into semi-convsrging ries by ( F ) .
We thus readily find that .
( 24 ) formula will be found suitable for computing , except when is lie equal to unity .
In this case we get , by ( 14 ) , ( 15 ) , and ( 16 ) , - can be computed by the formulae given earlier in the paper and found from this converge too slowly we can write ' ( J ) od use I ) to find Finally , when is very small , we have In the case when .
the spheres , are external to one another and the distance etween them is microscopic , we previously found .
cit. ante ) that A short table of the values of is given in ' Funktionentafeln , ' Jahnke and do , p. 31 . .
Dr. A. Rustell .
The When arranged as a @pherical condenser , therefore , th4 greater in the ratio of to the When the electrostatic charge on the inner ltoer remain8 the attractive foroe is given by and formulae for computation are obtained in exactly the same way preceding problem .
, In formula ( 26 ) if is given in ekctrostatic units , and and centimetres , then is given in dynes .
If is given in volt4 we it by 300 to reduce it to electrostatic units .
Similarly , if in .
( 27 ) be in coulombs , we must multiply its by 3 3 .
The Value Electric Sfress .
In determining the voltage at which the disruptive dinharge ' cavity takes place , a knowledge of the maximum value .
of the stress on the dielectric is essential .
In the case @pheriea eleo external to one another , the author*has shown how the vahk of this. .
can be computed .
In a similar way , it can readily be shown the of images that When is infinite and is .
In this ease , ors Expanding the third and subsequent terms )in series , powers of and , and snmming the of he in a different order , we cau show Except when is n.early putation.uppose tConducti S where distance between the spheres When is small we can use the following formula deduced from ( F ) and ( 28 ) .
- ( 30 ) For example , when , and , so that is 1 , we have In this case , therefore , where is nearly equal to , the error is about 1 in 48,000 .
If in ( 30 ) we write for , and neglect cubes and powers of , we get , after lengthy algebraical work , that .
( 31 ) As an example let , and .
Substituting in ) we H Hence , albhough is as great as 1/ 3 , the error is only about 1 in 700 .
If we write for in ( 31 ) , we get the formula applicable to the case of external spheres .
For external spheres , therefore , .
( 32 ) Comparing ( 31 ) and ( 32 ) , we see that , for a given value of and of 1 the maximum electric stress is greater for the spherical condenser .
If we put in ( 34 ) we get a useful formula , which is applicable to the case of equal spherical electrodes when they are close together .
This formula was first given by Schuster .
* ' Phil. Nag vol. 29 , p. 192 ( 1890 ) .

