1878 .
] On Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
Series .
Summary .
Greatest deviation Mgms .
from mean in milligrammes .
1 ( B + X ) \#151 ; ( A+Y ) = .0718 .0099 \ 2 ( A+X)-(B + Y ) = .1610 .0067 / 3 ( A + X ) \#151 ; ( B + Y ) = .1732 .0057 \ 4 ( B + X)-(A+Y ) = .1500 .0122 J 5 ( B+Y)-(A+X ) = .0065 .00571 6 ( B+X ) \#151 ; ( A+Y ) = .4043 .0078 } 7 ( B+Y ) \#151 ; ( A+X ) = .1283 .0089 1 8 ( B+X)-(A+Y ) = .4119 .0037 J 0078 } B==A+'1989 mgm- The greatest error\#151 ; that is the greatest deviation of any one value from the mean of its series\#151 ; in the first four series is joommo^ of a pound .
The greatest error in the four series Nos. 5\#151 ; 8 is too^Woo^k of a pound .
II .
" On Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
" Part YI .
By William Crookes , F.R.S. , Y.P.C.S. ( Abstract .
) In this part , with which the research closes , the author first examines the action of thin mica screens fixed on the fly of an ordinary radiometer , in modifying the movements .
It is found that when a disk of thin clear mica is attached 1 millim. in front of the blacked side of the vanes of an ordinary radiometer , the fly moves negatively , the black side approaching instead of retreating from the light .
When a thin mica disk is fixed on each side of the vanes of a radiometer , the result is an almost total loss of sensitiveness .
In order to examine the action of screens still further an instrument is described having the screens movable , and working on a pivot independent of the one carrying the fly , so that the screens can move freely and come close either to the black or to the white surfaces of the disks .
By gentle tapping the screens can be brought within 2 millims. of the black surfaces .
A candle is now brought near , shaded so that the light has to pass through one of the clear disks and fall on the black surface .
The black side immediately retreats , the clear disk remaining stationary for a moment and then approaching the light .
If the candle is allowed to shine on the plain side of the black disk , no immediate movement takes place .
Yery soon , however , both disks move in the same direction away from the candle , the speed of the clear disk gradually increasing over that of the blacked disk .
D 2 Mr. W. Crookes on [ Nov. 21 , Instead of allowing the clear screens to freely move on a pivot , an instrument was made in which the screens could be fixed beforehand in any desired position in respect to the blacked disks .
It was then found that with the screens close to .
the blacked sides of the vanes the fly rotates very slowly in the negative direction , stopping altogether when the candle is moved five or six inches off .
With the screens 1 millim. from the black surface the direction is negative and the speed at its maximum .
When the screens and disks are 7 millims. apart a position of neutrality is attained , no movement taking place .
When the distance is further increased , positive rotation commences , which gets stronger as the screens approach the bright sides of the disks , where the positive rotation is at its maximum .
The author adduces reasons for considering that the negative rotations here observed are caused by the warming up of the black surface by radiation falling direct on it , through the clear mica screen , and the deflection backwards of the lines of molecular pressure thereby generated .
The action of these radiometers being complicated , owing to the surfaces of the vanes being different in absorptive power , another instrument was made in which the vanes were of polished aluminium , perfectly flat and symmetrical with the bulb .
The screens were of clear mica movable in respect to the vanes , and at right angles to their surface .
When exposed to the light of a candle it was found that with the screens brought up close to the disks , the rotation was as if the unscreened side were repelled ; at an intermediate position there was neutrality .
Explanations are given of these movements , but without the illustrative cuts they would be unintelligible .
Experiments on radiometers having movable screens interposed between the vanes and the bulb are next given , and these are followed by a long series of experiments on the influence of movable screens on radiometers with cup-shaped metallic vanes , the screens being varied in shape , and position in respect to the plane of rotation , as well as in respect to the distance from the vanes .
A similar series is given with metallic cylinders as vanes , and from the behaviour of the latter kind of radiometer , an explanation is given of the various movements previously obtained .
It is found that when the screen touches the convex surface of the vanes the rotation under the influence of light is always positive .
It commences at a low exhaustion , increases in speed till the rarefaction is so high that an ordinary radiometer would begin to lose sensitiveness , and afterwards remains at about the same speed up to the highest rarefaction yet obtained .
At any rarefaction after 87 M ( millionths of an atmosphere ) there is a neutral position for the screen .
When it is on the concave side of this neutral position the direction of rotation is positive , and when on the convex side of the neutral position it is 1878.1 Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
37 negative ; the speed of rotation is greater as the vanes are further removed from this neutral position on either side .
The position of this neutral point varies with the degree of exhaustion ; thus at 12 M , the screens must be 3 millims. from the convex side ; at .18 M they must be 13 millims. from the convex side .
The higher the exhaustion the greater the distance which must separate the convex side of the hemi-cy finders and the screens .
The author gives explanations of these phenomena , based on the following already ascertained facts:\#151 ; When thin aluminium vanes are exposed to light the metal rises in temperature and becomes equally warm throughout , and a layer of molecular pressure is generated on its surface .
The thickness of this layer of pressure , or the length of the lines of force of repulsion , varies with the degree of exhaustion , being longer as the exhaustion increases .
The lines of force appear to radiate from the metal in a direction normal to its surface .
The force of repulsion is also greater the closer the repelled body is to the generating or driving surface , and the force diminishes rapidly as the distance increases , according to a law which does not appear to be that of " inverse squares .
" Diagrams are given illustrating the author 's explanation , based on the above data .
An apparatus is next described not differing in principle from the last , but having , in addition to the aluminium hemi-cylinder and movable mica screen , a small rotating fly made of clear mica , mounted in such a way that it could be fixed by means of an exterior magnet in any desired position inside the bulb .
The screen was also capable of adjustment by means of another magnet ; the aluminium hemi-cylinder in this apparatus being fixed immovable .
The adjustible indicator being very small in diameter in comparison to the other parts of the apparatus , and , being easily placed in any part of the bulb , was expected to afford information as to the intensity and direction of the lines of pressure when a candle was brought near the bulb .
Experiments have been triect , a , with the screen in different positions in respect to the hemi-cylinder ; b , with the indicator in different parts of the bulb ; c , with the candle at different distances from the hemi-cylinder on one side or the other ; d , with the degree of exhaustion varying between wide limits .
It would be impossible to give an intelligible abstract of the results obtained with this apparatus without numerous diagrams .
It may , however , be briefly stated that they entirely corroborate the theories formed from a study of the behaviour of the instruments previously described .
The next part of the paper treats of the action of heat employed inside the radiometer .
In a previous paper , the author showed that phenomena feeble and contradictory when caused by radiation external to the bulb , became vigorous and uniform when the radiation was applied internally by the agency of an electrically-heated wire .
It Mr. W. Crookes on \lt ; 58 [ Nov. 21 , was hoped that some of the more obscure phenomena shown by the deep cups with movable screens in front ( referred to above ) might be intensified if set .
in action by a hot wire .
Several kinds of apparatus and experiments with them are described , but the results are too complicated to be given in abstract .
One experiment proves that the direction of pressure is not wholly normal to the surface on which it is generated , but that some of it is tangential .
The author then describes the turbine radiometer , early specimens of which were exhibited before the Royal Society on April 5 , 1876 .
In the ordinary form of radiometer the number of disks constituting the fly is limited to six or eight , a greater number causing interference one with the other and obstruction of the incident light .
In the turbine form of fly there is no such difficulty , the number of vanes may be considerably increased without overcrowding , and with corresponding advantage .
In the earlier turbine radiometers the flies were made of mica blacked on both sides , and inclined at an angle like the sails of a windmill , instead of being in a vertical plane .
This form of instrument is not sensitive to horizontal radiation , but moves readily in one or other direction to a candlelield above or below .
A vertical light falling on the fly gives the strongest action , but rotation takes place , whatever be the incident angle , provided the light is caught by one surface more than by the other .
Ether dropped on the top of the bulb to chill it causes rapid negative rotation .
If the turbine radiometer is floated in a vessel of ice-cold water , and the upper portion exposed to the air of a warm room , it rotates rapidly in the positive .direction , acting as a heat engine , and continuing so to act until the rotating fly has equalised the temperature of the upper and lower portions of the bulb .
By reversing the circle of operations\#151 ; by floating the turbine radiometer in hot water and cooling the upper portion of the bulb\#151 ; the fly instantly rotates in the negative direction .
After describing experiments in which the same fly was made to rotate first in a large bulb and then in a small one at the same degree of exhaustion , the author proceeds to discuss the influence exerted by the inner side of the glass case of the radiometer as a reacting surface .
A flat metal band was put equatorially inside a radiometer , and lamp-blacked , so that the molecular pressure generated under the influence of light should react between the fly and the black band , instead of between the fly and the glass side of the bulb .
It was found that the maximum speed with the band present was 40 revolutions a minute , against revolutions when the band was absent .
The rotation of the case of a radiometer , the fly being held immovable by magnetism , is next described .
A preliminary note on this subject having already appeared in the " Proceedings , " * it need not be again # " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " No. 168 , March 30 , 1876 .
1878 .
] Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
39 described in detail .
Many different forms of instrument for effecting this rotation are described , and their mode of action explained .
The reacting inner surface of the envelope being thus proved to be essential to the rotation of the fly , other instruments were made in which this necessary reaction is obtained in a more direct manner .
In one , the radiometer is furnished with a fly carrying four flat aluminium vanes , polished on both sides .
Three vertical partitions of thin clear mica are fixed in the bulb , with their planes not passing through the axis of rotation , but inclined to it , thus throwing the obliquity off the fly on to the case , and giving three fixed planes for the reaction to take place against .
Candles arranged symmetrically round the bulb make the fly rotate rapidly against the edges of the inclined planes .
Breathing gently on the bulb gives negative rotation .
A hot glass shade inverted over the instrument causes strong negative rotation , changing to positive on cooling .
When the fly is furnished with clear mica or with silver flake mica vanes , the same results are obtained as when aluminium vanes are employed .
The principal action is produced by dark heat warming the bulb , screens , and vanes .
The otheoscope is the next subject treated on in the paper .
This has already been given in abstract , * and need not be again referred to .
Many different varieties of otheoscope are figured and described .
Fio .
1 .
* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. No. 180 , April 26 , 1877 .
40 Mr. W. Crookes on [ Nov. 21 , It was suggested bj Professor Stokes that a disk might be made to revolve on its axis , and the author describes an instrument in which this suggestion is carried out .
The disk is horizontal , mounted like the fly of a radiometer , and for lightness ' sake is of mica , blacked above .
Fixed to the bulb above the disk are four flat pieces of clear mica ; each extends from the side of the bulb to near the centre , and ends below in a straight horizontal edge , leaving just space enough for the disk to revolve without risk of scraping .
The edge is in a radial direction , and the plane of the plates is inclined about 45 ' to the horizon , in the same direction for them all .
Exposed to the light of a candle , the rotation is against the edge .
By slightly modifying this form , the instrument becomes much more sensitive .
Fig. 1 shows the complete instrument ; a , a , are six vanes of copper foil , oxidised by heating to redness in the air ; they are attached to arms , and are inclined at an angle of 45 ' to the horizon .
They are firmly fixed to the support .
Through the centre passes a needle-point , on which is balanced a glass cup , carrying a thin clear disk of mica , b , b , freely rotating about 1 millim. above the top edges of the copper vanes .
' When exposed to light , the mica disk rotates with great speed against the edges .
The pressure which drives the movable fly round reacts equally on the driving surface : by suspending both vanes and disk independently on needle-points the effect of light causes them to rotate in opposite directions .
Whilst experimenting with the otlieoscope it was found that , for a given exhaustion , the nearer the reacting surfaces were together the greater was the speed obtained .
In the " Proceedings of the Royal Society " for November , 1876 , * the author described an apparatus by which he was able to measure the thickness of the layer of molecular pressure generated when radiation impinged on a blackened surface enclosed in an atmosphere the rarefaction of which could be varied at will .
It was found that in this apparatus repulsion could be obtained at ordinary atmospheric pressures .
Observations are given at normal pressure and at various degrees of rarefaction , with the driving and moving surfaces separated 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 , 8 , and 12 millims. ; and diagrams of the resulting curves are shown when the atmospheric tension and the force of repulsion are used as abscissae and ordinates .
The tables and curves show that the law of increase of the force with the diminution of the distance between the disks does not remain uniform at all rarefactions .
At the lowest exhaustions the mean path of the molecules of the attenuated gas is less than 1 millim. , as rendered evident by the force of repulsion diminishing rapidly as the distance increases .
At exhaustions higher than 9 millims. this condition alters , and as the * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " No. 175 , yoI .
xxv , p. 310 .
1878.1 Repulsion resulting from Radiation .
41 gauge approaches barometric height , the molecular pressure tends to become uniform through considerable distances , the mean path of the molecules now being comparable with the greatest distance separating the surfaces between which they act .
A similar apparatus to the one in which the last experiments were tried was used to measure the action at pressures at and approaching atmospheric .
At pressures between atmospheric and 210 millims. , the first action is very faint repulsion , immediately followed by strong attraction .
The attraction then begins to decline , until at 15 millims. pressure it disappears .
At the same time the repulsion , which begins to be apparent at 250 millims. , increases as the attraction diminishes .
The author considers that the attraction is the result of air-currents , caused by the permanent heating of the surface in front of the move-able disk .
The paper concludes with experiments undertaken to measure the amount of repulsion , using a horizontal torsion balance , * on the principle of Ritchie 's , in which the force of repulsion is balanced by the torsion of a fine glass fibre .
The pan of the balance is a clear mica disk , and a similar disk is fastened to the tube in which the beam oscillates .
This fixed disk is lampblacked on the upper side , and beneath is a spiral of platinum wire , connected with terminals sealed through the side of the tube .
When the spiral is ignited by a constant electric current , the blacked mica disk fixed above it becomes heated , and the molecular pressure thereby generated between it and the mica pan causes the latter to rise .
The glass thread attached to the beam is thus twisted , and by means of a graduated circle the number of degrees through which the thread has to be turned in order to bring the beam back to equilibrium is noted .
This gives a measurement of the pressure exerted , in torsional degrees , and these are converted into grains by ascertaining how many torsional degrees correspond to a known weight .
A ray of light reflected from a mirror in the ^centre of the beam is used as an index , being brought back to zero at each experiment .
The author gives in a table , and also shows in the form of a curve , the results obtained with this apparatus , giving the force of molecular pressure in grains weight at exhaustions varying between 2,237 and 0'7 millionths of an atmosphere .
* For a description of this form of torsion balance , see the author 's paper , " Phil. Trans. , " 1876 , vol. clxvi , p. 371 .

