Observations on the Functions of the Intestinal Canal and Liver of the human Foetus .
By Robert Lee , M.D. , Physician to the British Lying-in-Hospital .
Communicated by Dr. Prout , F.R.S. Read June 19 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 121 .
] From the circumstances of the early development of the liver and intestines in the foetus , of the copious supply of blood which they receive , and of the great space which they occupy in the abdomen , the author was led to the conclusion that they performed some important functions in the foetal economy .
Although no nutritive matter can be furnished by the mouth , yet the contents of different portions of the alimentary canal were found , both in appearance and chemical composition , to bear a striking analogy to those of the same portions of the canal in the adult , where the processes of assimilation and absorption are performed .
A semi-fluid matter , possessing all the characters of albumen , is found closely adhering to the inner coats of the small intestine ; and is more especially abundant around the papillary projection , through which the common duct of the liver opens into the duodenum , and diminishes in quantity as we trace it towards the termination of the ileum .
The great intestines are generally distended with a dark green homogeneous fluid , containing no albumen , and apparently excrementitious .
No albumen can be detected in the contents of the stomach .
Hence the author infers that an absorption of some nutritious substance , which he brings forward several arguments to show must be derived from the liver , takes place from the intestinal canal in the latter months of gestation .
He states that in two instances he detected the presence of a substance , similar to that which he had found in the duodenum , in the hepatic duct itself ; hence he is led to the conclusion that the function of the liver in the fretus is not confined to the separation of excrementitious matter from the blood , but that it supplies materials subservient to nutrition .
That the substances existing ; in the intestines of the foetus are not derived from the mouth , is proved by their being equally found in acephalous children , or where the 0esophagus is impervious , as where no such mal-conformation exists .
A note is subjoined to this paper by Dr. Prout , giving an account of the mode by which he ascertained the chemical character of the substance referred to his examination ; and the paper is accompanied by drawings of the intestinal tube in the foetus .

