II .
" Contributions towards the History of the Monamines .
No. VI .
Note on the Action of Iodide of Methyl on Ammonia .
" By A.W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 2 , 1862 .
When studying , many years ago , the action of iodide of methyl upon ammonia , I pointed out the existence of dimethylamine among the products of the reaction .
The amount of iodide of dimethylam380 [ Jan. 8 , monium is very small when compared with the quantities of the iodides of methyl , trimethyl , and more especially of tetramethylammonium , not to speak of iodide of ammonium itself , so that I was compelled to be satisfied with approximative platinum determinations in order to establish the formation of dimethylamine under these circumstances .
Having lately had to prepare a specimen of the dimethylated ammonia , and remembering the small quantity which is formed by means of iodide of methyl , I resolved to avail myself of an observation made in the mean time , according to which dimethylamine is formed by the action of soda-lime upon the sulphite of aldehyde ammonia , C2 H , , H N , SO , + Ca , O= C H , N +Ca , SO , .
According to M. Gossmann* , this reaction furnishes ethylamine , and indeed in such quantities as to render this process a convenient mode of preparing the substance .
Re-examined subsequently by M. Petersent , the ethylamine of M. Gossmann proved to be dimethylamine , which is isomeric with the former , C2III CH3 C , H , N= H NN= CH N. HJ Hj Nor does M. Petersen appear to share the enthusiasm of his predecessor for the facility and elegance of this reaction .
Indeed , a glance at the analysis published by this chemist is sufficient to show how small a quantity of the base produced by this process must have been obtained .
In repeating this experiment , I have indeed obtained a minute quantity of an inflammable ammonia ; but , though varying the process , and working on a tolerably large scale , I was unable to procure a sufficient amount for a single analysis .
Under these circumstances I was compelled to return to the reaction by which I had originally obtained dimethylamine , viz. by the action of iodide of methyl upon ammonia .
By availing myself of the method of separating the ethyl-bases , which some time ago I submitted to the Royal Society $ , I succeeded without difficulty in separating the dimethylamine from the mixture of ammonias which this reaction produces .
An alcoholic solution of ammonia , gently heated with iodide of methyl in a flask provided with a condenser , rapidly solidifies into a crystalline mixture of the iodides of ammonium , methyl- , dimethyl- , trimethyl- , and tetramethylammonium .
The more soluble iodides separated from the difficultly soluble iodide of tetramethylammonium are evaporated and distilled with potash , and the bases evolved carefully dried by passing over hydrate of potassium , and conveyed through a powerfully refrigerated serpentine in which dimethylamine and trimethylamine , together with a portion of methylamine , are condensed , the ammonia and the remainder of the methylamine being carried off as gas and condensed in water .
The mixture of the three methylated bases is then brought in contact with oxalate of ethyl , when the methylamine immediately solidifies into a crystalline mass of dimethyloxamide , ( C , 02 , ) " C4 H , N , O2= ( C HI , ) N , , H2 the dimethylamine being converted into dimethyloxamate of ethyl , ( C2 0)(C H 3)2N ] } C6 H , , NO , ( C , I , ) 0 , a liquid boiling between 250 ?
and 260 ?
, while the trimethylamine remaining unchanged may be expelled from the mixture by gently heating in the water-bath .
Dimethyloxamate of ethyl being easily soluble in water , is separated from the dimethyloxamide by treatment of the mixture with cold water .
Distilled with hydrate of potash , dimethyloxamate of ethyl yields a mixture of alcohol and dimethylamine , oxalate of potassium remaining behind .
Evaporated with hydrochloric acid , the distillate furnishes a crystallized residue of chloride of dimethylammonium , from which , on addition of an alkali , the pure dimethylamine is liberated .
Dimethylamine is a powerfully alkaline liquid of a strongly ammoniacal odour , easily soluble in water , and possessing the general characters of this class of compounds .
Its boiling-point , strange to say , very nearly coincides with that of trimethylamine , the boiling-point of the former being between 8 ?
and 9 ?
, that of the latter 9 ? .
To eliminate the influence of changes of pressure , the boiling-points of ' the two substances were determined at the same time .
I have fixed the composition of dimethylamine by the analysis of the platinum-salt and gold-salt .
The former is one of the finest salts which I have ever examined , crystallizing in long splendid needles , shooting through the liquid from one side of the vessel to the other .
It contains C2 18 N Pt C13= [ ( C H3 ) , H , N ] Cl , Pt C12 .
The gold-salt , which likewise crystallizes very well , has an analogous composition , viz. C2 H1 N Au C1 , = [ ( CH , ) , HI N ] C1 , Au C1 , .
If the products obtained by distilling the sulphite of aldehydeammonia with lime had contained the minutest trace of dimethylamine , the formation of the beautiful characteristic platinum-salt would have revealed it .
In none of the experiments did I observe the formation of this compound .

