Messrs. Sanderson and Page [ May 23 , II .
" Experimental Results relating to the Rhythmical and Excitatory Motions of the Ventricle of the Heart of the Frog , and of the Electrical Phenomena which accompany them .
" By J.Burdon Sanderson , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and F. , T. M. Page , B.Sc. , F.C.S. Received May 6 , 1878 .
The results which are shortly stated in the following paragraphs relate to ( 1 ) the order and duration of the rhythmical and excitatory motions of the heart of the frog ; ( 2 ) the normal electrical condition of the surface of the heart and the influence thereon of mechanical , chemical , and thermal injuries ; and ( 3 ) the characters of the normal and of the excitatory electrical variation , and the modifications of those chai'acters which are induced by injuries of the surface , and under the temporary influence of radiant heat .
Section I.\#151 ; Order and Duration of the Motions of the Heart .
1 .
Duration of the Ventricular Systole.\#151 ; In the rhythmically contracting excised heart , i.e. , in the heart removed by cutting across the sinus , Avhich will in ihis paper be called " the entire heart , " the frequency of the contractions is usually , in winter frogs , a little over 30 per minute .
The systole of the ventricle lasts about one second .
The contraction attains its maximum in a little more than half a second after its commencement , declining at first gradually , afterwards more suddenly .
The sadden relaxation occurs between 0"7 and 0"'9 after the commencement .
At the close of this period the ventricle does not become entirely flaccid , for a lever resting upon it continues to descend for about a third of a second .
In the rhythmically contracting heart , removed by cutting through the auricles , to be called hereafter " the ventricle preparation , " the duration of the ventricular systole is about 1"'35 .
It attains its maximum at 0"'8 after its commencement , and relaxes rapidly between 1"T and l"-3 .
In these statements the word commencement is understood to mean the beginning of the hardening of the ventricle .
It is preceded by a period of partial contraction of which the duration is about 0''T5 , and which we propose to call the period of prae-contraction .
2 .
Delation between the Periods of Contraction of the Auricles and Ventricles.\#151 ; In the entire heart , contracting rhythmically , the contraction of the auricle begins about 1"'4 before that of the ventricle , and the maximum of the auricular systole is attained l'/ *2 before that of the ventricle .
There is an interval of not less than half a second between the end of the auricular contraction as indicated by the movement of a light lever resting upon it and the beginning of that of the ventricle .
It follows from this statement that when the heart is acting at its normal frequency , the beginning of the auricular contraction nearly 1878 .
] on Rhythmical Motions of the Heart .
411 coincides with the maximum of the preceding ventricular systole , and that their endings are synchronous .
3 .
The Stannius ' Heart.\#151 ; In a heart of which the rhythmical action bas been arrested by the application of a tight ligature round the line of junction between the wall of the sinus and of the auricles ( " Stands ' ligature " ) , the duration of the ventricular contraction , determined by electrical or mechanical excitation , is much longer than in the beating heart .
The contraction attains its maximum from 1"'4 to 1"'8 after the commencement as above defined , the ventricle remaining in full contraction for from 0"'4 to 0"-5 .
Accordingly the moment at which the sudden relaxation takes place varies between 1"'8 and 2"*0 .
4 .
Time interval between Excitation and Contraction.\#151 ; When a contraction is produced in a heart ligatured as above described ( which may be referred to as a " Stannius ' heart " ) by the passage through any part of its substance of a single induction shock , a sensible delay intervenes between the excitation and the commencement of the contraction .
If the electrodes are in contact with two points of the surface of the ventricle at a short distance ( one millim. ) from each other , and currents of small intensity , i.e. , such as are just sufficient to produce an effect , are used , the delay may amount to three-tenths of a second .
In this case contraction of the auricle commences after that of the ventricle , the time interval between them being from 0"'4 to 0"-5 .
If the seat of excitation be the posterior surface of the left auricle near the ligature , the auricle contracts after a delay of about one-sixth of a second , but the ventricular contraction does not commence until from 0'''4 to 0"'6 later .
It frequently happens that the ventricular systole produced by excitation of the auricle is followed after an interval of inaction of about l"-3 by a second contraction of the auricles .
Section II.\#151 ; Electrical Condition of the Surface of the Uninjured and of the Injured Heart .
5 .
The Uninjured Heart.\#151 ; It was shown by Engelmann in 1873 , that the surface of the uninjured resting heart is isoelectric , and further that the slightest mechanical or chemical injury renders the injured part negative .
These facts we have confirmed in numerous observations relating both to the heart of the toad and of the frog : _ Nature of the Injuries Investigated.\#151 ; In order to investigate the influence of a local injury on the condition of the surface of the heart , its rhythmical motion must be suspended .
This may be done either by the passage of a rapid succession of induction shocks in opposite directions through the inhibitory tract , by applying to the surface a trace of a solution of muscarin , or by Stannius ' ligature .
A localized injury of the surface may be produced either by the scratch of a needle , by touching it with hot wire ( preferably a platinum wire heated elec2 e 2 412 Messrs. Sanderson and Page [ May 23 , trically ) , by creosote , or by a fine wire covered with a tbin layer of fused nitrate of silver .
6 .
Comparison of Sound with Uninjured Spots on the Surface of the Hesting Heart.\#151 ; When the resting heart is connected by its base and apex with a galvanoscopic circuit , and one of the two isoelectrical spots on the surface of the organ by which it is led off is injured in any of the ways above mentioned , the injured spot is found to have become negative to the sound surface .
The electrical difference between them may amount to 0'03 volt , but , as Engelmann found , that difference usually diminishes very rapidly .
This effect is for the most part not dependent on the distance of the sound spot from the injured spot .
Thus , if an injured spot near the apex is compared ( a ) with a sound spot 2 millims. from it , and ( 6 ) with another near the base , i.e. , about 5 millims. distant , it is often found that the differences between the two results are very inconsiderable .
This experiment shows that the electromotive forces developed by injury have their seat in the immediate neighbourhood of the injured surfaces .
7 .
Influence of Radiant Heat.\#151 ; When two isoelectrical points , ( at apex and base ) on the surface of the heart are led off , and one of them is warmed by the approach of a platinum coil ( about 2 millims. in diameter ) heated by a voltaic current and brought into its neighbourhood ( 3 millims. distant ) for a period of one second , the warmed spot becomes positive to the other .
The amount of difference has not been observed to exceed one-thousandth of a Daniell .
No movement of the needle occurs until about a second after the approach of the coil .
This effect is transitory , its duration being less than five seconds .
If the distance at which the coil is placed is diminished , the warmed surface becomes for a moment positive , then permanently negative .
A similar effect is observed when the warming is prolonged without diminishing the distance .
Section III.\#151 ; Characters and Modifications of the Electrical Variation .
As was first observed by Kolliker and H. Muller in 1854 , anelectrical disturbance or variation precedes and accompanies each contraction of the ventricle of the heart of the frog .
In the uninjured heart the extent of this variation is extremely small , but is at once , increased by injury .
8 .
The Normal Variation.\#151 ; In the uninjured pulsating heart the variation consists of two phases , viz. , of an initial disturbance of short duration , in which the apex becomes positive , and of a much longer second phase , in which the apex tends to negativity .
This statement , which relates to the heart cut off through the sinus , is also applicable to the organ while it still forms part of the body .
In the entire heart the initial phase begins a quarter of a second before the on Rhythmical Motions of the Heart .
commencement of the hardening of the ventricle , i.e. , 0"'l before the beginning of the pree-contraction .
( Sec. I. ) The second phase ends about 0"'9 after the beginning of the first , of which the duration is less than a tenth of a second .
Consequently the first phase of the variation is completed 0"'15 before the commencement of the contraction of the ventricle , its completion being immediately followed by the beginning of the pne-contraction .
The second phase lasts through the period of active contraction .
9 Time Interval between the Excitation and the Variation .
In the Stannius ' heart when the posterior surface of the auricle near the septum is excited , the resulting contraction ( as stated in 4 ) follows the excitation at an interval of about two-thirds of a second .
In this case the first phase of the variation precedes the contraction by a very constant interval of a quarter of a second .
When the heart is excited from the ventricle half way between the base and apex , left side , the delay is diminished to about a third of a second , but there is no diminution of the interval between the initial phase of the variation and the contraction .
' , .
, , 10 .
Effect of Injury on the Variation.\#151 ; If in a normal entire heart , off at base and at apex , the surface of the ventricle near the base iponding in direction to the second phase .
414 Sanderson and Page on Rhythmical Motions .
[ May 23 , when two spots , 2 millims. apart , of which one has been injured , are led off , nearly equal in amplitude those which are observed when the contacts are respectively at apex and base .
11 .
Decline of Effect after Injury.\#151 ; The electrical difference between an injured and a sound surface begins to decline from the moment of the infliction of the injury which produces it .
This decline is not accompanied by a corresponding diminution of the variation , the eventual decline of which is often preceded by a temporary increase .
12 .
Modifications observed under the of Radiant Heat.\#151 ; By warming the surface of the ventricle in the manner described in 7 , the following changes are produced in the character of the variation .
In the uninjured rhythmically contracting heart , in which the variation has the normal character , the approach of the wire for five seconds to a distance of 3 millims. from the surface of the auriculo-ventricular groove intensifies the second phase and increases its duration .
This effect lasts for two minutes at most .
It subsides at first rapidly\#151 ; so that each succeeding variation differs sensibly from the preceding one \#151 ; afterwards more gradually .
If the apex be similarly warmed , the second phase is either obliterated or reversed , according to the time of exposure and to the distance of the coil .
At first the variation assumes the characters witnessed after injury of the apex , as described in 10 ; but here , as when the base of the ventricle is warmed , the effects subside rapidly during the first five seconds , more gradually afterwards .
In both cases the variation has , in about two minutes , resumed its normal characters .
In the above experiments it is seen that , although the warming influences the potential of the surface acted on in a direction which is opposite to that produced by a permanent injury , its effect on the variation is precisely the same , with this important difference , that it is transitory .
These effects can be observed whether the entire heart or the ventricle alone is used .
13 .
Modifications dependent on the Seat of Excitation.\#151 ; If in the entire heart , of which the motions have been arrested , either by faradization of the inhibitory tract or by the Stannius ' ligature , a single contraction is induced either by a mechanical or electrical excitation of any part of the auricles or of the auriculo-ventricular groove , the excursions present the same characters as in the rhythmically contracting heart .
If the excitation , whether electrical or mechanical , be at the apex , the first phase of the variation is , i.e. , the apex becomes initially negative .
In other respects the excursion is unaltered .
Consequently , if at the moment of excitation the apex is warmed in the manner previously described in 12 , the large single excursion ( apex-positive ) is seen to be preceded by a momentary prae-excursion in the opposite direction .

