An Account of some E xperiments , performed with a View to ascertain the most advantageous Method of constructing a Voltaic Apparatus , for the Purposes of Chemical Research .
By John George Children , Esq. F.R.S. Read November 24 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 32 .
] The object of the author is to determine how the greatest effect may be produced by the voltaic battery , with the least waste of power and expense .
For this purpose he had one battery constructed of twenty pairs of plates of zinc and copper of large dimensions , each plate being four feet long and two feet wide .
Each pair was connected together only at the top by a strap of lead , so that both sides of each plate were exposed to the action of the fluid in the trough .
The trough was made entirely of wood , with wooden partitions , made water-tight by cement ; and this battery when in action was charged with a mixture of three parts nitrous acid , with one of sulphuric diluted with three parts of water .
With this battery , 1 .
Eighteen inches of platina wire -y , of an inch in diameter were fused in about twenty seconds .
2 .
Three feet of the same wire became visibly red by strong daylight .
3 .
Four feet of the same became very hot , but not visibly red .
4 .
Charcoal burned with intense brilliancy .
5 .
On iron wire , the effect was remarkably feeble .
Not more than ten inches of the finest harpsichord wire could be fused by it .
6 .
Imperfect conductors were scarcely affected by it .
No effect was produced upon barytes mixed with red oxide of mercury and water .
7 .
A gold-leaf electrometer was not affected by it .
8 .
The shock from this battery was scarcely perceptible .
The author 's second battery consisted of 200 plates , about two inches square , placed in half-pint pots of common Queen 's ware .
1 .
With this battery potash and barytes were readily decomposed .
2 .
The metallization of ammonia took place with great rapidity .
3 .
It visibly ignited charcoal .
4 .
It caused a strong divergence of the gold-leaf electrometer .
5 .
It gave vivid sparks for upwards of three hours , and was not exhausted till after forty hours .
The results of the foregoing experiments are considered as a confirmation of Mr. Davy 's observation , that intensity increases with the number , and the quantity of electricity with the extent of the surface .
The effect of quantity is seen in the first experiment on platina wire .
This metal not being oxidated presents no obstacle to the passage of the electricities , which evolve , on their mutual annihilation , heat sufficient to raise the temperature of the platina to the point of fusion .
Nevertheless from want of intensity , this quantity could not find a ready passage through the suboxidated iron wire , and could produce no effect upon barytes or other bodies liable to be decomposed by the greater energy of the small battery .
In this the number of plates being tenfold gives tenfold intensity , although the aggregate quantity of surface in the whole battery is not s-oth part of the acting surfaces in the large battery .
the advantage of a large quantity of fluid is evinced by the longcontinued action of the small battery ; and it is also observed that in very numerous combinations , a certain distance between the plates becomes necessary to prevent spontaneous discharges , which the author found to take place in a battery of 1250 plates of four inches square .
With this battery of 1250 , excited by a fluid of the same strength as was used in the former experiments , the author ascertained the striking distance through the air to be 'T , th of an inch , care having been taken to dry the air , through which the discharge took place , before the experiment , as well as to avoid any increase of temperature previous to the discharge .
The electric light was also made to pass through a vacuum , and was observed to be the same as from a common electrical machine .
The effect of this great number of plates on imperfect conductors , was of course uncommonly powerful , but yet their power of fusion was comparatively weak , as they barely melted half an inch of the same platina wire that had been used in the former experiments ; and hence it is evident that the construction must be different according to the purpose for which the battery is designed .
For igniting perfect conductors large plates are necessary , but they need not be numerous ; and for overcoming the resistance of imperfect conductors number is requisite , but the size of the plates may be small .
The new method of constructing the trough wholly of wood , with moveable plates joined together only at top , is much preferred to the old construction , as the plates are more easily cleaned or repaired , and as they expose double extent of surface .

