348 Solar Spectrum .
Secondary Batteries .
[ May 21 , These spicules belong to numerous species .
All four orders of siliceous sponges are represented , but whilst the Monactinellid and Hexactinellid sponges form but a small proportion , the Tetracti-nellid and Lithistid sponges , more particularly those of the Mega-morina family , are extremely abundant .
III .
" The Solar Spectrum from X.7150 to \10,000 .
" By Capt. Abney , RE .
, F.RS .
Received May 6 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The paper deals with the method employed in taking the photographs of the solar spectrum , from which the map accompanying it was made , and indicates the degree of accuracy which has been obtained .
IV .
" On Charging Secondary Batteries .
" By William Henry Preeoe , F.R.S. Keceived May 6 , 1885 .
1 .
I have for the past twelve months been experimenting with secondary batteries with a view of getting an efficient , uniform , and constant source of currents for electric lighting my house , and I have succeeded beyond my expectations .
Some new facts have developed themselves during my ' experience , which I have thought of sufficient importance to bring before the Society .
2 .
The cells are of the Plants type , manufactured by the Elwell Parker Company of Wolverhampton .
Fourteen plates of plain sheet-lead 17 " X 11 " are suspended in well insulated wood boxes filled with diluted sulphuric acid in the proportion of about 1 to 10 .
These plates are grouped in two groups of seven , each group being soldered to a lead strip , forming alternately the positive and negative poles of the cell .
The plates of the respective poles are prevented from touching each other by ebonite grids or separators.* Each plate offers a surface of 1'3 square feet , so that the total surface of lead of each group opposed to each other is 9T square feet ; that is , 9T square feet of peroxidised lead is opposed to 9T square feet of spongy lead .
I use twenty-four such cells .
3 .
My charging current varies from 3 to 3^ amperes per square foot , while the current of discharge used in lighting my house varies from 1 to 1^ ampere per square foot .
The total weight of each cell is * These ebonite grids were introduced by Mr. Charles Moseley , and have effectually removed one incessant source of trouble in these cells , viz. , short-circuiting through the buckling of the plates .

