Growth and Sporulation of Tertian Malarial Parasites .
77 7 .
Reichenow , E. " Hcemogregarina stepa\#151 ; Die Entwicklungsgeschichte einer Hsemogregarine , " ' Archiv fiir Protistenkun.de , ' 1910 , vol. 20 , pp. 252-350 .
8 .
Row , R. " The Development of the Parasite of Oriental Sore in Cultures , " ' Quart .
Journ. Micros .
Sci. , ' 1909 , vol. 53 , Part IV .
9 .
Splendore , A. " Um novo Protozoo Parasita de Conigli , " ' Revista da Societa Scientifica de Sao Paulo , ' 1909 , vol. 3 , Nos. 10-12 , pp. 109-112 .
10 Yakimoff , W. L. , and Kohl-Y akimoff , Nina .
cants , " 'Archiv fur Protistenkunde , ' 1912 , vol. 27 , pp. 195-206 .
The Growth and Sporulation of the Benign and Malignant Tertian Malarial Parasites in the Culture Tube and in the Human Host .
By John Gordon Thomson , M.A. , M.B. , Ch. B. Edin .
( Pathologist to the Royal Southern Hospital , Liverpool , and Durning-Lawrence Research Student ) ; and David Thomson , M.B. , Ch. B. Edin .
, D.P.H. Cantab .
( Clinical and Pathological Research Assistant , School of Tropical Medicine , Liverpool ) .
( Communicated by Sir Ronald Ross , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received May 21 , \#151 ; Read June 12 , 1913 .
) [ Plate 10 .
] Prefatory Note .
Researches on the cultivation of the parasites of malaria in Liverpool were commenced some time ago at my suggestion by Dr. Sinton , and then , with better success , by Drs. J. G. Thomson and McLellan , and by Dr. D. Thomson .
We are greatly obliged to Sir Edwin Durning-Lawrence , Bart. , for giving us the services of Dr. J. G. Thomson for this important enquiry.\#151 ; Ronald Ross , 21st May , 1913 .
Introduction .
The successful cultivation of malarial parasites was first announced by Bass and Johns ( 1912 ) .
Since then several workers , Thomson and McLellan ( 1912 ) , Thomson , J. G. , and Thomson , D. ( 1913 ) , and Ziemann ( 1913 ) , have successfully repeated these cultivation experiments .
This achievement has led the way to new discoveries regarding the malarial parasite , and suggests that it may be possible to cultivate in vitro any protozoal parasite , however specialised it may be .
78 Messrs. J. G. Thomson and D. Thomson .
So far , only the asexual generation of the malaria parasite has been grown in vitro .
The next step is to cultivate the sexual generation as it occurs in the human host and in the mosquito .
We have attempted both , but , so far , without definite success .
We have no doubt , however , that this will also be accomplished sooner or later .
In 1912 , Thomson , J. G. , and Sinton successfully cultivated the human trypanosome , and the development they obtained was apparently that which takes place in the stomach of the tsetse fly .
Joukoff ( 1913 ) states that he has cultivated the mosquito cycle of the malarial parasite , though his results have not yet been confirmed .
There is no reason to doubt that the phases of development of protozoa in insects may be produced in the culture tube .
Cultivation Technique .
Our method of cultivation is practically the same as that of Bass and Johns , except that it is less complicated ; 10 c.c. of blood is drawn from a vein and transferred to a sterile test-tube containing a thick wire leading to the bottom of the tube from the cotton wool plug .
1/ 10 c.c. of a 50-per-cent , solution of glucose is added to this tube , preferably before adding the blood .
The blood is defibrinated by gently stirring with the thick wire .
Defibrination should be complete in about 5 minutes .
The wire with the clot is then removed and the blood is poured into several smaller sterile tubes ( about 1-inch column of blood in each ) .
A rubber cap is placed over the cotton wool plugs to prevent evaporation and the tubes are then transferred ( standing upright ) to an incubator at a temperature of 37 ' to 41 ' C. The corpuscles settle in a short time , leaving about half an inch of clear serum at the top .
It is apparently unnecessary to remove the leucocytes by centrifugalisation .
Further Observations on Cultivation .
We have grown four complete generations of parasites in one tube by the above method , and we do not see why their growth should not continue indefinitely , provided fresh serum and corpuscles be added .
It is not the presence of leucocytes which prevents further development .
This is due to degenerative changes taking place in the corpuscles and serum .
If the serum and corpuscles be kept in a sterile condition in an ice chest they remain unchanged for a long time , but at the temperature required for the growth of the parasites visible changes take place in a few days .
The corpuscles become fragmented and form a brownish debris and the serum becomes dark biown in colour .
When this occurs the parasites are unable to continue their developmental cycle .
Bass and Johns , in their original paper ( 1912 ) , Growth and Sporulationof Tertian Malarial Parasites .
79 stated that the parasites grew only on the surface layer of corpuscles , and that no growth took place in the deeper layers .
They also stated that the serum destroyed the parasites when they escaped from the corpuscles , so that when the spores escape they must enter immediately into a contiguous corpuscle in order to survive .
The blood also , in their opinion , required to be heated to a temperature of 40 ' C. to destroy the complement in the serum ; furthermore , in order to cultivate several generations , the leucocytes had to be removed .
We do not believe that they have sufficient evidence for these deductions .
We find that the parasites develop even in the very deepest layer of the column of corpuscles .
Also it seems rather a contradiction that the parasites should grow best on the surface layer of corpuscles , next to the serum and the leucocytes which are supposed to destroy them .
No doubt the leucocytes ingest some of the parasites , but they are never able to ingest all of them .
Again , in one of our most successful cultures the temperature of the blood never exceeded 38 ' C. , and we have found that they are able to grow at a temperature as low as 36 ' C. This is rather against the theory of complement destruction .
In an able paper by Mary Eowley Lawson ( 1913 ) , considerable evidence is brought forward to show that the parasites are extra-corpuscular during their entire development .
If this is true , then the parasites would be constantly in contact with the serum which is supposed to destroy them .
It appears to us that the only conditions necessary for the successful cultivation of the parasites are fresh corpuscles , fresh serum , a temperature of 37 ' to 41 ' C. and the requisite amount of glucose .
The presence of leucocytes and complement is apparently immaterial .
The Optimum Temperature.\#151 ; In our opinion the optimum temperature for cultivation is about 38 ' C. On two occasions we incubated identical culture tubes from the same patient , some at 37 ' C. and some at 41 ' C. On both the occasions the parasites developed much more successfully in the tubes incubated at 37 ' C. Haemolysis in the Culture Tubes .
This is a rare occurrence , having been seen only once out of 15 cases .
A kind of haemolysis occurs after the blood has remained in the incubator for several days .
The corpuscles degenerate into a brownish debris , and the serum shows a brown discoloration .
Clumping of the Malignant Tertian Parasites .
This phenomenon has been observed in all our malignant tertian cultures ( 12 cases ) .
It occurs even when the parasites are scarce .
It is best 80 Messrs. J. G. Thomson and D. Thomson .
observed in wet films , as smearing of the blood tends to break up the clumps .
No tendency to clumping occurred in our benign tertian cultures .
Resistant Forms of Parasites .
Sometimes it will be found that the parasites do not grow well vitro .
They may only grow partially , stopping short of segmentation .
This is liable to occur if quinine has been given to the patient before the blood is drawn .
In other cases , only a few of the parasites reach maturity , these , apparently , being able to resist successfully adverse conditions in the culture tube .
The Morphology of Plasmodium falciparum in Culture .
The blood examined before incubation always showed the typical small ring parasites of malignant tertian malaria ; these varied in size , with a maximum diameter of about 3 g. There was no enlargement of the red blood corpuscles , and no Schuffner 's dots .
Fig. 1 ( Plate 10 ) shows a small ring parasite from the peripheral blood before incubation .
After many experiments in Liverpool , it has been found that there is great variation in the rate of growth of P. falciparum in artificial media , and many suggestions can be offered to explain this phenomenon .
J. G. Thomson and S. W. McLellan ( 1912 ) found in one case that maximum sporulation of P. falciparum occurred in 25 hours .
This culture was made from a case with very heavy infection of parasites , and the patient had taken no quinine .
The temperature of the incubator was only 38 ' C. , but the glucose added was slightly in excess of that recommended by Bass ( 1912 ) .
The rapid segmentation of the plasmodia in this case , therefore , may have been due to two causes : ( 1 ) the age of the parasites when introduced into the culture tube , since it is to be noted that they were fairly large rings about 3 g in diameter , and ( 2 ) the quantity of glucose may in some way have hastened the growth .
In other experiments , however , where the glucose was slightly in excess , there was no such rapid growth , so that in all probability the real cause of the rapid segmentation of the parasites in vitro is due to the age of the plasmodia when drawn for incubation purposes .
Another factor which seems to influence the rate of growth is the previous administration of quinine , and this may , in fact , inhibit the growth entirely .
On several occasions we have made unsuccessful attempts to cultivate the malignant tertian parasite , and these have usually been from patients to whom quinine had been administered .
On two occasions complete sporulation did not take place till after 50 hours ' incubation at 41 ' C. On one of these occasions the parasites completed several generations , as illustrated by the accompanying coloured Growth and Sporulation of Tertian Malarial Parasites .
81 plate ( figs. 1-20 ) .
We found that maximum segmentation took place in 52 hours .
Division of the chromatin into daughter-cells began in about 36 hours ( figs. 4 and 5 ) .
In 47 hours the number of spores had increased ( figs. 6 and 7 ) , and more or less complete segmentation took place in 52 hours .
Fig. 11 shows a parasite which has produced 32 daughter-cells , and these have broken loose from the corpuscle .
It is to be noticed that in the peripheral blood the small ring parasites show no pigment .
After incubation , the rings gradually grow in size ( fig. 3 ) , and at a certain stage , immediately previous to the splitting of the chromatin , a round compact mass of pigment appears , usually situated near one margin of the parasite , which now measures about 5\#151 ; 6 yu .
in longest diameter .
In the culture under discussion , this round mass of pigment was seen in 36 hours ( figs. 4 and 5 ) .
J. Gr .
Thomson and S. W. McLellan ( 1912 ) found that the pigment had collected in 12 hours .
The parasites immediately previous to segmentation measure about 5\#151 ; 6 yu .
in their longest diameter , and all show the circular mass of compact pigment .
We may call this stage the presegmenting stage .
The chromatin now begins to split into two , and , if segmentation is completed , 32 daughter-cells may be formed ( fig. 11 ) .
All stages of segmentation can be found from two spores up to 32 spores as a maximum .
During segmentation , the circular mass of pigment takes a central position , and the spores form in a circular arrangement around these ( figs. 7-11 ) .
In this culture segmenting forms w$re found at different stages up to 56 hours , this being no doubt due to the fact that the parasites were not all of the same age when introduced into the culture tubes .
In 75 hours all segmenting forms had disappeared , and only very young parasites were found , about 1*5 yu .
in diameter and containing no vacuole ( fig. 13 ) .
This represents the beginning of a second generation .
It is to be concluded , therefore , that many of the young merozoites escape ingestion by the leucocytes , and enter a new red cell .
The same culture examined in three days again showed segmenting forms ( fig. 14 ) , but in this case the spores were never so numerous as 32 , and this can easily be explained by the adverse conditions which have now developed in the culture tube .
These conditions did not , however , prevent the young parasites attempting to segment .
In four and a half days ( fig. 15 ) we again only found ypung rings , which represent the beginning of a third generation , and in six days sporulating forms were again found ( fig. 16 ) .
Here only eight spores formed , and it was evident that the power of the parasite to undergo full segmentation was getting gradually less .
On the seventh day , again , only very young plasmodia were found , which represented a fourth generation , and these again attempted to sporulate ( figs. 18 and 19 ) on the eighth and ninth days respectively .
On the tenth VOL , LXXXVJI.\#151 ; B. Q Messrs. J. G. Thomson and D. Thomson .
day only young parasites again were found , which represented a fifth generation .
No further development , however , occurred , as the conditions in the culture were gradually becoming more and more adverse .
We have thus evidence that the parasites will , under very suitable conditions , actually proceed in the original culture tube through four complete generations without the medium being in any way renewed .
We now wish to draw particular attention to several points of great interest which occur in the cultures of falciparum , .
In these there is a definite tendency for the parasites to clump together into masses immediately the circular mass of pigment appears , and even before segmentation begins .
This tendency to clump becomes more marked when sporulation actually commences .
In our opinion this phenomenon explains the reason why sporulation occurs as a rule in the capillaries of the internal organs .
We seldom see sporulation or even presegmenting forms in the peripheral blood of malignant tertian cases , and the phenomenon of clumping explains this in a satisfactory manner .
All the large parasites tend to get caught in the fine capillaries of the internal organs , and thus only young rings whose containing corpuscles have not yet acquired the clumping tendency are seen in the peripheral circulation .
This fact explains many phenomena of pernicious malaria , and shows how comatose malaria may occur in infections with P. falciparum .
The Morphology of P. falciparum in the Human Host .
This is identical in every respect with that obtained vitro , so that it is hardly necessary to describe it in detail .
As already stated only the young ring forms of this parasite are found in the peripheral blood as a rule ; this is due to the fact that when these parasites have grown larger than the ring stage , the containing corpuscles stick together , forming clumps which are unable to circulate , and thus are arrested in the fine capillaries of the inner organs .
The study of the further stages of this parasite is obtained by examining smears of the inner organs such as the spleen , liver , brain , etc. , of cases which have died .
The autopsy smears of over one hundred cases have recently been examined by one of us ( I ) .
T. ) , in conjunction with Dr. W. M. James , in Panama .
In such smears one finds the parasite in different stages of development .
In some , presegmenters only are found ; some show only young rings , and others only sporulating forms .
This depends entirely on the stage of development of the parasite at the time of the patient 's death .
In some cases , of course , several stages of development are found , since one patient may contain several broods of parasites which are in different stages of development , In only one case did we find the parasites in the stage of Growth and Sporulation of Tertian Malarial Parasites .
83 maximum sporulation .
All of them contained over 20 spores , and ] 3 per cent , had 32 spores .
We think that there can he little doubt that we have proved conclusively , both from observations in the culture tube and in human host , that P. falciparum is capable of producing a maximum , under favourable circumstances , of 32 spores .
This is a much larger number than has been previously given in the writings of competent observers .
Boss ( 1912 ) quotes the figure of Welch ( 1897 ) at 6\#151 ; 20 or more spores .
Later , however , from observations made by himself and D. Thomson , he taught that the maximum number was 2 to the power of 5 or 32 , Marchiafava , Bignami , and Mannaberg ( 1894 ) state that the numbers vary from 8 to 15 , while the following authors give the numbers as follows : Stephens and Christophers ( 1908 ) , 8-10 ; Deaderick ( 1910 ) , 5\#151 ; 25 and even 30 ; Gulland and Goodall ( 1912 ) , 8-15 .
It is probable that these discrepancies are due to two reasons , ( d ) observations of autopsy smears in which the sporulation had not reached its full maturity , and ( 5 ) observations on autopsy smears of patients to whom quinine had been given before death .
In such cases incomplete and atypical sporulation is seen .
We do not claim , of course , that 32 spores are always produced even under favourable conditions without quinine administration .
It is likely that the numbers produced vary considerably , just as in the case of benign tertian , which produces numbers varying from 16 to 26 .
The Morphology of P. vivax in Culture .
Here we are studying a parasite in which all stages from small rings up to full sporulation may be seen in the peripheral blood .
Sporulation does not necessarily occur in the internal organs , and it is quite usual to find these forms in ordinary peripheral blood smears .
When cultivating this parasite , therefore , it is important to draw the blood from the patient when the young forms predominate , so that it is then certain whether or not we are obtaining further development in the culture tubes .
In the culture illustrated in Plate 10 , figs. 21\#151 ; 30 , we obtained the blood when young rings ( fig. 21 ) predominated and no segmenting forms were found .
After eight hours ?
incubation at a temperature of 39 ' C. , a marked increase in size of the parasites was noted ( figs. 22 , 23 , and 24 ) , and pigment was now evident , being scattered throughout the protoplasm in fine granules .
This arrangement of the pigment in P. vivax is in marked contrast to what occurs in P. falciparum , where the pigment always becomes arranged into a dense circular mass from the commencement .
After 20\#151 ; 29 hours ' incubation ( figs. 25-30 ) sporulation was seen at different stages , the pigment being collected into a loose mass of granules in the centre of the parasite .
Pig .
29 Messrs. J. G. Thomson and D. Thomson .
shows a parasite with 15 daughter-cells , and we have found on several occasions 16 spores , which we think is the usual maximum of daughter-cells found in P. vivax , although again we find all stages , from 2 spores up to 16 , according to the stage of development at which we examine the cultures .
We are quite certain that the spores are never so numerous as in the malignant tertian parasite .
In these cultures clumping has not been found , and this explains why the parasites do not tend to be arrested in the internal organs during sporulation , although when full grown they are much larger than the malignant tertian parasite .
The absence of clumping in the case of the benign tertian parasite explains satisfactorily the absence of pernicious symptoms in this infection , and hence the absence of comatose malaria , and it also explains why all stages of this parasite are found in the peripheral blood , even up to sporulation .
The Morphology of the Benign Tertian Parasite in the Human Host .
This , again , is identical with that which we have just described under morphology in the culture tubes , figs. 21-30 .
The chief features in which this parasite differs from P. falciparum are the large size of the containing corpuscle , with the presence of Schuffner 's dots , the straggling form of the medium-sized parasites , the scattered pigment in the presegmenting stages , and the smaller number of spores .
These spores are larger than the spores of the malignant tertian parasite .
The pigment in the sporulating forms is collected into a loose mass .
With regard to the number of spores produced by this parasite we have found as many as 24 , but the most usual number is 16-18 .
In culture the largest number we obtained on three occasions was 18 .
The following are the numbers of spores produced by P. vivax in the human host , according to several observers : Boss ( 1910 ) quotes the figures of Grassi and Teletti , 15-20 spores ; Marchiafava , Bignami , and Mannaberg ( 1894 ) , 16 spores ; Golgi quotes 14-19 spores ; Stephens and Christophers ( 1908 ) , 15 or more spores ; Deaderick ( 1910)gives 12-26 spores oftenest 16 spores .
In our opinion Deaderick 's figures are most correct .
All stages of this parasite are found in the peripheral blood , and the phenomenon of clumping has never been observed .
Boss has taught recently that there are four splits with this parasite , that is 16 spores ; three splits with the quartan parasites , that is 8 spores ; and five splits , or 32 spores , with the malignant parasite .
Growth and Sporulation of Tertian Malarial Parasites .
85 Summary .
( 1 ) The malignant tertian parasite has been successfully cultivated after the method of Bass and Johns on twelve occasions , and the benign tertian on three .
( 2 ) It is unnecessary to remove the leucocytes from the blood before incubation .
The optimum temperature would appear to be about 38 ' C. , and the parasites may grow successfully at a temperature as low as 36 ' or 37 ' C. ( 3 ) The time required for the full development of the parasite in vitro varies , but this variation is partly due to the age of the parasite at the time of incubation .
( 4 ) The cultures of benign tertian differed from those of malignant tertian in that there was no tendency to clumping of the parasites in the former , either before or during sporulation .
( 5 ) This difference appears to us to explain in a satisfactory manner why only young forms of malignant tertian are found in the peripheral blood , as the clumping tendency of the larger forms causes them to be arrested in the finer capillaries of the internal organs .
It also explains the tendency to pernicious symptoms , such as coma , in malignant tertian malaria .
All stages of the benign tertian parasite are found in the peripheral blood , and there are seldom pernicious symptoms , because there is no tendency to clumping .
( 6 ) The malignant tertian parasite ( P. ) is capable of producing in maximum segmentation , 32 spores .
On the other hand , benign tertian ( P. vivax ) produces , as a rule , during maximum segmentation , 16 spores ; sometimes more may be produced , but the number is never 32 .
( 7 ) The pigment in P. falciparum collects into a definite , circular , and very compact mass early in the growth of the parasite .
On the other hand , during the growth of P. vivax the pigment remains scattered in definite granules throughout the body of the parasite , till just before segmentation , when it collects into a loose mass of granules in the centre of the full-grown Plasmodium .
( 8 ) The morphology of P. falciparum and P. vivax in the human host is identical with the morphology of these parasites as obtained in the culture tube .
REFERENCES TO LITERATURE .
, Bass and Johns ( 1912 ) .
" The Cultivation of Malarial Plasmodia ( vivax and Plasmodium falciparum ) in vitro f ' Journ. Exp. Med. , ' vol. 16 , pp. 567\#151 ; 579 .
Deaderick ( 1910 ) .
'Malaria .
' Gulland , G. L. , and Goodall , A. ( 1912 ) .
' The Blood ; a Guide to its Examination and to the Diagnosis and Treatment of its Diseases .
' 86 Growth and Sporulation of Tertian Malarial Parasites .
JoukofF , N. M. ( 1913 ) .
" Culture du Parasite de la Malaria , " 'Compt .
Rend .
Soc. Biol. , ' vol. 74 , No. 3 , pp. 136-138 .
Marchiafava , E. , Bignami ' , A. , and Mannaberg ( 1894 ) .
' Two Monographs on Malaria and the Parasites of Malarial Fever .
' ( 1 ) By Marchiafava and Bignami ; ( 2 ) by Mannaberg .
Ross , Sir Ronald ( 1910 ) .
' The Prevention of Malaria , ' p. 89 .
Rowley Lawson , Mary ( 1913 ) .
" The Extra-cellular Relation of the Malarial Parasite to the Red Corpuscle and its Method of Securing Attachment to the External Surface of the Red Corpuscle , " ' Journ. Exp. Med. , ' vol. 17 , No. 3 , pp. 324-335 , with six plates .
Stephens , J. W. W. , and Christophers , S. R. ( 1908 ) .
The Practical Study of Malaria , ' p. 34 .
Thomson , J. G. , and McLellan , S. ~W .
( 1912 ) .
" The Cultivation of One Generation of Malarial Parasites ( Plasmodium falcip ) in , by Bass 's Method , " * Ann. Trop .
Med. and Parasitol .
, ' vol. 6 , pp. 449-462 , with two plates .
Thomson , J. G. , and Thomson , D. ( 1913 ) .
" The Cultivation of One Generation of Benign Tertian Malarial Parasites ( Plasmodium in vitro , by Bass 's Method , " 'Ann .
Trop .
Med. and Parasitol .
, ' vol. 7 , No. 1 , March , pp. 153-165 , with one plate .
Thomson , J. G. , and Sinton , J. A. ( 1912 ) .
" The Morphology of Trypanosoma gambiense and Trypanosoma rhodesiense in Cultures ; and a Comparison with the Developmental Forms described in Glossina 'Ann .
Trop .
Med. and Parasitol .
, ' vol. 6 , No. 3 , pp. 331-357 , with three plates .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE 10 .
All the figures in this plate represent the growth of the parasites in the culture tube .
Magnification 1600 diameters .
Fig. 1 is a malignant tertian parasite at the time of inoculation of the culture tube .
Corpuscle is shrunken ; no pigment is seen , and no sftppling of the corpuscle .
Fig. 2 represents 12 hours ' growth at 36 ' C. No pigment is yet visible .
Fig. 3 represents 23 hours ' growth at 41 ' C. Pigment is not yet evident , but the parasite has increased in size .
Figs. 4 and 5 represent 36 hours ' growth ; note the appearance of a compact mass of pigment .
Fig. 5 is a double parasite .
Figs. 6 and 7 show commencing segmentation after 47 hours ' incubation .
Fig. 6 shows 5 daughter-cells , and fig. 7 20 spores .
Figs. 8 , 9 , and 10 show sporulating forms after 51 hours ' incubation .
Fig. 11 shows complete sporulation ( 32 spores ) after 52 hours ' incubation .
The containing corpuscle has burst and liberated the spores .
Fig. 12 was obtained after 56 hours ' incubation .
Fig. 13 represents a young merozoite of the second generation which has entered a new corpuscle , after 75 hours ' incubation ; note that there is no vacuole .
The parasite is only T5in its longest diameter .
Fig. 14 represents sporulation of the second generation after 3 days ' incubation .
Fig. 15 shows a young merozoite of the third generation after 4^ days ' incubation .
Fig. 16 represents sporulation in the third generation after 6 days ' incubation ; only 8 spores have formed .
Fig. 17 is a young merozoite of the fourth generation after 7 days ' incubation .
Thomson ?
SoThomson/ .
Boy .
Soc. Proo .
B .voL .
8 7yPLJ0 .
l. \#169 ; fh KJ 2 .
3 .
4 .
* ?
S** 6 .
$u *.w a. .S* 9 .
w . .
\gt ; \#171 ; fc % + * * tUv* %V H * n. ^S8| 13 .
3$ * 15 . ?
16 .
\#171 ; .
, 17 .
$\#187 ; 4* 19 .
; p:-- * ' .
.*.* \#187 ; *f'**\ .
W ,4 .M $\#163 ; f \#166 ; .\#166 ; w 22 .
v. 1 2 % 23 .
25 .
w .
* . .
' .\ -.\lt ; w.r-v ' " " 26 .
%%*iS31 % IP 28 .
\gt ; t K\gt ; * v\gt ; WV* , * ... * jtim W ; S ' * ?
r r r..#\gt ; * :* .
J. G. Thomson \amp ; I).Thomson , del .
Bath .
11th- .
el imp .
The Chrigin of Mammals .
87 Fig. 18 .
Eight days ' incubation , showing commencing segmentation in the fourth generation .
Fig. 19 .
Nine days ' incubation , showing sporulation in the fourth generation .
Fig. 20 shows a young merozoite of the fifth generation after 10 days ' incubation .
All of the above figures were obtained from one culture tube , without the removal of leucocytes and without the addition of fresh serum or corpuscles .
Fig. 21 shows a young benign tertian parasite at the time of inoculation of the culture tube .
Figs. 22 , 23 , and 24 represent 8 hours ' growth in culture tube at 39 ' C. Figs. 25-30 show parasites obtained from the culture tube after 20-29 hours ' incubation .
Fig. 30 is a female gamete ( undivided chromatin and scattered pigment ) found in the culture tube ; similar gametes were found in the blood at the time of inoculation of the cultures , so it is probable that this gamete was one of these , and that it had not developed in the culture .
Note the large size of the corpuscles in the benign tertian as compared with those in the malignant tertian , also the Schuffner 's dots and the scattered pigment .
The spores also are larger and fewer in number in the case of the benign tertian parasites .
Croonian Lecture : The Origin of Mammals .
By Dr. Bobekt Broom .
( Lecture delivered June 5 , 1913 .
) ( Abstract .
) An endeavour is made to trace the evolution of mammals from Cotylosaurian ancestors through the carnivorous Therapsida .
In Upper Carboniferous times the line probably passed through some primitive generalised Pelycosaurs ; in Lower Permian through primitive , probably Therocephalian , Therapsids .
In Middle and Upper Permian the line passed through the Gorgonopsia .
In Triassic times the mammalian ancestors were small generalised Cynodonts .
In Lower Jurassic the mammals are so Cynodont-like , and the Cynodonts so mammal-like , that in no single case are we absolutely certain which is which .
In the Therocephalia , the Gorgonopsia , and the Cynodontia , the skull is very mammal-like .
The zygomatic arch is , as in mammals , formed by the jugal and the squamosal .
The teeth are divided into incisors , canines and molars .
In the later Gorgonopsians there is an imperfect secondary palate ; in Cynodonts a complete secondary palate as in mammals .
In Permian Therapsids there is a single occipital condyle ; in the Triassic Cynodonts

