I. " Experimental Researches on various questions concerning Sensibility .
" By E. BROWN-SEJQUARD , M.D. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received May 24 , 1860 .
The first question I propose to examine relates to the duration of sensibility in parts of the body completely deprived of the circulation of blood .
This question has hitherto received but little attention from physiologists .
It is true that many experiments have been made to ascertain how long sensibility remains in animals in which circulation is stopped by the application of a ligature round the large blood-vessels of the heart ; but I do not know of any special research upon the dluration of sensibility in a nerve in which there is a suspension of circulation .
No doubt it has been occasionally observed , in experiments made with the view of ascertaining what effects are due to the ligature of the aorta , that sensibility persists in the nerves of the lower limbs much longer than irritability in the muscles , but no precise determination has been made of the exact duration of sensibility in such cases , except , to a certain extent , in some experiments of my own and those of Stannius .
My researches , although giving any indication of the duration of sensibility in the lower limbs , had not been made with the special view of elucidating this question , their object being to decide whether the vital properties of muscles and nerves could be restored after having completely disappeared .
The experiments of Stannius were made with the same view as mnine .
It may therefore be said that the subject of the present paper is almost entirely new , at least as regards warm-blooded animals .
A ligature round the aorta does not stop circulation completely enough to allow any positive conclusion regarding the duration of sensibility in nerves deprived of circulation of blood .
Desirous of avoiding the causes of error which exist when the aorta is tied , I have proceeded in the following manner:-I apply ligatures on the femoral artery , and after having divided this vessel between the ligatures , I amputate the thigh completely , excepting , however , that I leave the two large nerves of the limb undivided and as little injured as possible .
In experimenting in this way , I find1st .
That the duration of sensibility in the toes , in Rabbits , varies between twenty and twenty-three minutes .
2nd .
That , in Guinea-pigs , the duration varies between forty and fifty minutes .
I have seen sensibility lasting a little more than an hour in one case .
3rd .
That , in Dogs , the duration of sensibility varies between thirty and thirty-five minutes .
It is a very remarkable fact that the duration of sensibility varies so much in animals so nearly related to each other as Rabbits and Guinea-pigs .
The second question I propose to examine relates to the influence of temperature on the duration of sensibility in parts deprived of the circulation of blood .
It has been erroneously assumed that vital properties last longer in parts submitted to a temperature similar to that of the body , than in parts of which the temperature is very mucilowered .
I have experiimented on almost completely amputated limbs of Guinea-pigs , as in the preceding instances .
The limbs were placed in a vessel dipped inlto water at different temperatures .
The results have been as follows:1st .
Water at 1040 Fahr. Duration of sensibility , in average forty-one minutes .
2nd .
Water at 800 Fahr. Durationi of sensibility forty-nine ininutes .
3rd .
Water at 500 Fahr. Duration of sensibility fifty-three minutes .
4th .
Water at,35 ' Fahr. Duration of sensibility fifty-eight ninutes .
These results , which will not surprise persons who know the laws of the influence of heat and cold on the vital properties of the spinal cord , of motor nerves and muscles , clearly show that the lower the temperature , the longer sensibility persists in parts deprived of circulation .
The third question I have tried to solve , is whether an augmentation in the vital properties of the spinal cord is able to influence the duration of sensibility in a limb deprived of the circulation of blood .
It is known that when a transverse section is made upon the posterior surface of the spinal cord in a mammal , and especially in a rabbit , all the parts of the body which are behind the section become much more sensitive than they were previous to the operation .
I have made two series of experiments to find out if , in cases of this kind , the duration of sensibility in parts deprived of circulation would be increased .
In one series of experiments I first divide the posterior columns of the spinial cord and them amputate all the parts of a hind limb except the nerves , while in another series I divide the spinal cord after h-aving made the amputation .
In both series I find that sensibility lasts notably longer thain in animals in which the posterior columns have not been divided .
For instance , in rabbits , instead of twenty or twenty-two .
minutes , sensibility lasts thirty or thirty-five minutes ; and in one case I have seen it still persisting , thLough very weak , after thirty-eight minutes ; I did not in this instance ascertain how long it lasted .
A very reinarkable fact is that in a rabbit in which the spinal cord is in a normal condition , and in which the toes , after partial .
amputation as in the preceding experiments , are about losing , the last appearance of sensibility , I find that there is a rapid and very notable return of this vital property if I divide the posterior columns of the spinal cord in the dorsal region .
These experiments show that when sensibility seems to be lost in a part deprived of circulation , it is not completely so , but that the transmitted excitation which causes sensation is too slight to produce it , and that if in its way to the sensorium this excitation meets with a cause of increase , then sensation can be produced by it .

