Philos. ~ Tab : J. fig : 1 .
fig : 2 .
fig : 3 .
fig : 4 .
D KIHGBAC B CFE fig : 6 .
fig : 5 .
F TG fig : 10 .
E XDOML PH N L V WYC QMI~ BKO Philpos .
Transact. no. 293 .
fig : 7 .
A Tab : 2 .
L S T Q V RK P W BAXC ~ .
fig : 9 .
fig : 8 .
D H LC KIGFEA fig : 3 .
fig : 2 .
NO fig : 1 .
HC LMG DED IB KFCFA E CDB NOWX EMPVY F III .
A Letter from Mr Antony van Leeuwenhoek , F. R. S. concerning the flesh of Whales , Crystalinc humour of the Eye of Whales , Fish , and other Creatures , and of the use of the Eye-lids .
Delft in Holland , July 22 .
1704 .
I Take the liberty to communicate these my Observations , which I made last year when our Ships returned from the Whale Fishery .
I have often concluded , that the Globules of Blood ( which are the cause of its Redness ) are of the same magnitude both in great and small Animals , and con sequently that the Particles of Blood in a Whale are no larger than in another Fish no bigger than a Pin .
Not being able to get at any Whale 's Blood , I was forced to acquiesce in bare speculations .
From the Particles of Blood my thoughts wandered to those of the Flesh of a Whale , whereupon I desired some that were concerned in the Fishing to bring me a piece of Whale 's Flesh , imagining that the Flesh-Particles of the said Fish were no bigger than those of a Horse or Cow , and that the bulk or largeness of a Whale consisted only in the multitude of number of Particles .
The piece of Whales Flesh which was brought me had no very good smell , by reason of its being almost putrified ; I cut it thro cross-ways , in order to separate the Flesh-Particles according to their length ; and I must own , that according to the best of my judgment , I could discover no difference between the said Particles ( in their sight ) and those of a large Ox. The reason why I compare a Whale with a great Ox , is , because I imagine that the Fibres in a great Ox are Kkkkkkkkkk not not more than those of a small one ; nay , even in a Calf , I do n't think that the Fibres are fewer in number , but only that they increase in bigness .
A certain Labourer presented me with the Christaline Humour of a Whale 's Eye , which he called the Eye of that Fish , and told me , that one of his Neighbours lately returned from the Whale-fishing , had brought it home with him .
After which , the Heer Frederic Wolfert van Overschie , by the interest he had in one of the Commanders of a Greenland Ship lately returned from the said Fishing , procured me two of the Humor Cristalinus of the same Fish , one was of a great , and the other of a small Whale , supposing that I should be glad to make some remarks on the said Humors .
Of these two Cristaline Humors I dissected the smallest , and kept the largest entire .
Tab. 1 .
Fig. 1 .
A B. Represents the bigness of the said Cristaline Humour when it came into my hands , tho I believe it was something larger when it was taken out of the Whales Eye ; for I have observed , that when I have taken the Cristaline Humor out of the Cod 's Eye , and laid it never so gently down , by reason of its softness , some of its substance fell from it , the which having taken and viewed with my Glasses , I could still discover in it the Fibrous Matter of which it consisted ; how much more then must such a Humor of the Whale 's Eye diminish , by being preserved in Saw-dust , in order to keep it stiff and hard .
The reason why some of the Sea-faring People take such pains to bring home with 'em the Cristaline Humor of a Whale 's Eye is , to show it as a Wonder that so Great an Animal should have so small an Eye ; for they mistake that Humor for the whole Eye .
In examining the said Cristaline Humor it appeared to me , that the Fibrous Matter or Particles whereof it is composed , lay so very thin upon one another , making thereby such exceeding fine Scales , that lay so prodigiously thick upon one another that it was amazing to behold ; and this Fibrous Substance is thinner of Parti cles , than that of a Perch not a year old .
The reason why the Fibrous matter of the Cristaline Humour of a small Perch appears Thicker than that in a Whale , is , that we see the former on one side , where the Threads or Fibres are thickest , but if we view them where the Fibrous Particles meet together they are exceeding fine or slender ; whereas , on the contrary , the Fibrous Matter of the Whale not meeting together , but running by , by Crossing itself often , is of the same thickness throughout .
In my Letter of the 14th of April , 1684 .
to the Honorable Society , I imparted my Discoveries about the Cristaline Humor of an Ox , Fish , &amp;c. and particularly I communicated the Course of the Fibrous Matter in the said Humor ; and I have discovered that the Cristallin Humor in a Whale is of a quite different Texture or Circumvolution from the Fibrous Matter in many Creatures ; for whereas the said Humor in others consists of three particular conjoined Branches , all arising out of one Point , the same Humor in the Eye of a Whale is composed of five Circumvolutions , all which unite together in one Point , and make one Scale : But I must here caution you that I only speak of the half of that Orb of the Cristaline Humor which fell immediately under my observation .
Now to describe the Smallness , as well as the Fibrous Contexture of which such a Scale consists , and whereof many lying upon one another compose the Cristaline Humour , I caus 'd one of 'em to be designed .
Fig. 2 .
CDEF shows a small Particle of the Cristaline Humor of a Whale 's Eye , taken off from the GlobuK kkkkkkkkk2 lar lar Part ; the Real Bigness of which , as it appeared to the naked Eye , is represented in Fig. 3 .
by G H. At first I did not believe that I should have attained my end , which was so to Discover the Texture of the Fibres , as to be able to expose the exact Circumvolution to my own view , by reason that the Scaly Particles were dried together so hard that they were as clear as Glass ; but when I had dissected the Second Cristalin Humor , after the manner as you may see in Fig. 3 .
G H. I could perceive it very easily .
The above-mention 'd little Particle Fig. 2 .
CDEF appeared no bigger to the naked eye than Fig. 4 .
I K ; in which , by the help of my Microscope , I could discover the exceeding fine Threads , which I call the Fibrous Matter , with a part of the Circumvolution which compose a Fifth part or Division of the Hemisphere of the said Cristallin Humor .
May we not be amazed with the sight of such a Contexture , of which the Painter said it was impossible for him to Trace the exceeding Fine and Regular Fibres with the Red-lead Pencil , but hoped to be a little more exact when he should come to describe the same with his Graving-Iron on a Copper Plate .
These Scaly Particles do n't lye thicker on each other than the Threads or Fibrous Matter are represented in the last mentioned Figure ; let us but imagine then how closely these Particles , lying upon , and near each other , must be united ; for otherwise it would be impossible for the Humor Cristalinus to have such a Transparency , as the nature of that Body requires .
Now , in order to have a clearer Idea of the Course of the Fibrous Matter in the Cristaline Humor of a Whale 's Eye , which Fibres , as I have said before , lye in so many folds upon each other , I took a common Ball ( for I could not make the Painter comprehend it any other way ) and divided it into such parts as were ana logous logous , or corresponded with the Divisions of the Fibrous Matter in the Cristallin Humor , and then wound it about with a single small Thread , which was to represent the Fibrous Matter that composed a small Scale of the said Humor .
Fig. 5 .
ABCDEFGHIK Represents a Globe or Orb of the Cristalline Humor of a Whale , whereof L is the Center or Axis , and lies next to the view , where the Fibrous Particles arise out of the shortest Circumvolution of the opposite part of the Globe , and the Course of which is in some measure described by the Letters L A. L C. L E. L G. and L I. As for the Fibrous Substance which here does first Circumvolve from the Middle point or Center , viz. Q B. P D. O F. NH and M K. they describe the same Circumvolution in the opposite part of the Sphere or Globe , which is here represented by L. Then I caused the Painter to design the said Ball , that was wound about with a Thread on one side , that you may the better conceive the Circumvolution of the Fibrous Matter .
Fig. 6 .
RSTU represents the said Ball so well wound up in the single Thread , that there appeared only the two ends of the said Thread , and the Ball was so well covered that hardly any of the Leather appeared .
The Center or Axis , which in Fig. 5 .
is described by L , where the Fibrous Matter , proceeding five several ways , does Circumvolve , as AL C. CL E. EL G. and GL I , we must suppose to be represented in this Figure by R and T. In Figure 5 .
we have described five other , but shorter Circumvolutions of the Fribrous Substance , as is before said , by the Letters MNOP Q ; but when we had caused Fig. 6 .
to be designed , there appeared but three of the last mentioned Circumvolutions , as in the Letters WX Y. And here again the unconceivable Order and the Wisdom of the Great Creator of all things is very obvious ; for what Man is there in the World that could wind about a Globe or Ball with a single Thread of equal size throughout , and not cross it self in any point ; and yet such is the Contexture of the Filaments or Fibrous matter , of which the Scales of the Cristaline Humour of a Whale are composed .
When I talked with the late Heer Christian Huygens of Zubichem , about the Cristaline Humours in the Eyes of Fishes , to wit , about the Spherical Figure thereof , his answer was ; What shall we say ?
the Eyes of the Fishes are of a wonderful form .
Since which , having carefully observed the Eyes of several Fishes , and particularly the Tunica Cornea thereof , I found that the said Tunic , or rather the Pupil or Apple of the Eye , was very flat , like those in Human Creatures and other Animals ; from whence I concluded , that tho the Cristaline Humour in Fishes was Spherical , yet the same was made good by the Flatness of the Apple of the Eye in the same Fishes ; from whence one might probably conclude , that the Eyes of Fishes are of the same contexture with other Land-creatures , and consequently the effects in both are the same .
For if you observe the Sphericalness of the Apple of the Eye in .
Men , it will be found to be a large Eye , where the Tunica Cornea makes a Circle , whose Axis is an inch long .
When I had taken the Eye out of the Head of a living Cod-fish , and put the Tunica Cornea in several Copper Globes , or Internal Circles , it appeared to me that the protuberant roundness of the said Tunic was equal to the Segment of a Circle , whose Diameter was of two Inches .
The said Eye was a little prominent out of the Head , like those of other Creatures , and tho the Tunics or Apples make a larger Circle , yet are they not bigger , and the Axis of the Cristaline Humour was a little longer than Now if the Cristaline Humour ( which I have sometimes called the Crist .
Muscle ) in our Eyes , and in many other Creatures , consists of a flattish roundness , but is not perfectly Spherical , and if the Diameter of the Circle made by the Tunic of the said Eyes be an inch long , the Cristaline Humour in Fishes being Spherical , and their Tunic describing a Circle , whose Diameter is two inches , all these Eyes , as I have said before , may have the same effect .
After this I took a Whiting , which weighed about 9 Ounces , and examined the Eye thereof , which described a Circle of 1 and 1/ 2 Inch in Diameter , and the Diameter of its Cristaline Humour was very near 1/ 3 of an Inch .
When I dissected the Cristaline Humour of a small Fish , and found the inmost part thereof no bigger than a large corn of Sand , I observed that the Fibrous particles , of which those exceeding small Scales were composed , did consist of as many parts as the uppermost Scales of the same Humour .
I did formerly resolve to make a stricter enquity into the Eyes of Fishes , but met with so many obstacles , that I cou 'd not go through with my observations , which made me delay them till now .
Now I am speaking of Eyes , I ca n't forbear adding , that a certain Gentleman asked me some time since , why Nature has .
given us Eye-lids , seeing that Fishes have none , and that his Surgeon could not tell him the reason ; I answered , that it was absolutely necessary for us , and all Land-animals to have Eye-lids ; for if it were not so , and that the Apple of our Eyes were not moistned many times in the space of an hour , and all the foulness that might fall thereon , washed away , our Sight or the Tunica Cornea would be so clogged with filth , that we should not be able to use our Eyes ; besides , the said Tunic would otherwise be parcht up or shrunk with heat , and consequently we should become Blind ; where ~ as on the contrary , Fishes living always in Water want no Eye-lids , because the same Water keeps their Eyes ever moist and clean ; with which answer the Gentleman was satisfied .
But I have since found that I was out in my assertion , for Flounders , Plaise , Soles , and I believe all flat Fishes can cover their Eyes ; and if they had not , I fancy they would lose their Sight , because the said sort of Fish are not so nimble as others in Swimming being only able to move their Tails , the chief Instruments of Speed , upwards and downwards ; wherefore these Fishes in a Storm do n't betake themselves to the bottom of the Sea , as I am informed , but dig themselves holes in the Sand , which secures them from being cast upon the Beach or Strand : Now if they had not Eyelids , the sharp points of Sand , whilst they are making their Nest , would wound the Tunicks of their Eyes , whereby the Transparency thereof would be destroyed , and the Fishes become blind ; which is a farther proof how perfect every Creatare is in its own Species .
I conclude , &amp;c.

