Ionic Sites in relation to the Conductivity of Electrolytes .
563 Ionic Sizes in Eelation to the Conductivity of Electrolytes .
" By W. E. Bousfield , M.A. , K.C. , M.P. Communicated by Professor Larmor , Sec. E.S. Eeceived February 10 , \#151 ; Eead March 9,1905 .
( Abstract .
) The law of mass action , which gives us Ostwald 's law for weak \#166 ; electrolytes , has not hitherto been harmonised with the empirical data for strong electrolytes .
But it may be reconciled with the conductivity data for strong electrolytes as well as weak , on the hypothesis that the ions of an electrolyte consist of molecular aggregates in combination with water , and on this hypothesis gives Va n't Hoff 's Law .
If Stokes 's results as to the motion of a sphere in a viscous fluid be applied to the motion of the ions of a binary electrolyte , it is again necessary , in order to reconcile theory with empirical facts , to make the same assumption , and to suppose that the ions are molecular aggregates largely composed of water molecules , the size of an ion depending upon the amount of water in combination with it , and being a function .of the temperature and concentration .
Upon this hypothesis the form of the function may be represented , within a temperature range of 0 ' to 36 ' C. , and a concentration range \lt ; ( in the case of KC1 ) from twice decinormal to infinity as rjr = ( 1 + AT + BT2 ) ( 1 + CA~\#187 ; ) where his the " hydration , " i.e. , the ratio of the molecules of water present to the molecules of the solvent , A and B are the radial temperature coefficients , C the radial concentration coefficient , and T is temperature -18 ' .
A correction for the coefficient of ionization is thus attained , which gives the true coefficient of ionization in the case of KC1 as _ A 1 1 iC 7 T+3 33^ ' where / is the fluidity of the solution .
With this coefficient of ionization Ya n't Hoff 's law , modified by substituting the " hydration " of the solute for its concentration , gives an accurate agreement with experimental results to within an error of 1 part in 2000 down to twice decinormal solutions\#151 ; a greater accuracy than has been attained by the best empirical formula hitherto proposed .
The water entering into combination with the ion is probably abstracted from the solvent largely as " trihydrol " or " hydrol , " according to the temperature of the solution , and enters into combination with the ion as " dihydrol , " thus causing contraction .
564 Ionic Sizes in relation to the Conductivity of Electrolytes .
In the two cases hitherto investigated it is found that the ionic volumes calculated from the conductivities on the above hypothesis are in agreement with the " solution volumes " calculated from the densities .
This is a striking confirmation of the hypothesis and of the soundness of the method adopted .
The expression ( 1+C/ r3)-3 , which is deduced from the conductivities as being proportional to the ionic volume changes of KC1 , is applied to a consideration of the density law of KC1 .
Hence , one arrives at a rational density law for KC1 , which represents the experimental values of the density from 1 to 6 per cent , accurately to five places of decimals .
A remarkable difference is manifested in the relation of ionic volume to solution volume as between concentration changes and temperature changes .
For isothermal concentration changes the ionic volume decreases as the solution volume increases , that is to say , with increasing water combination there is increasing contraction , a result which was to lie anticipated .
But in the case of temperature changes at constant concentration , there is increasing water combination with diminishing contraction\#151 ; a quite unexpected result .
This result is completely explained by reference to the variation in the proportions of trihydrol and dihydrol in the constitution of water with varying temperature .
Assuming that the attack of the ions upon the trihydrol and dihydrol is in proportion to their concentrations at the temperatures considered , the volume changes as determined from the conductivities are shown to be in accord with the volume changes as determined by the densities .
A new variety of viscosity apparatus is described , and a series of measurements of the viscosities and densities of KC1 from 0 to 21 per cent , are given .

