" On the Effect produced on the Deviation of the Compass by the Length and Arrangement of the CompassNeedles ; and on a New Mode of correcting the Quadrantal Deviation .
" By ARCHIBALD SMITH , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , late Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge ; and FREDERICK JOHN EVANS , Esq. , R.N. , Superintendent of the Compass Departmentof HerMajesty'sNavy .
ReceivedApril 3 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) When the length of the compass needle may be neglected compared with the distance of the iron which acts on a ship 's compass , the deviation is accurately expressed by the formula sin =-A cos +B sin + ' C cos 4+D sin ( 4+ ')+E cos ( 4+ - !
) ; in which 4 is the azimuth of the ship 's head measured eastward from the correct magnetic north ; 4 ' is the same azimuth , but measured from the direction of the disturbed needle ; B= 4-4t is the easterly deviation of the needle ; A , D , E are coefficients depending on the distribution of the soft iron of the ship .
B and C are coefficients depending partly on the distribution of the hard and soft iron of the ship , and partly on the magnetic dip and horizontal force at the place .
In all ships which have been examined , A and E are so small that they may be neglected ; and , if the deviation be of such an amount that we may take 6 for sin 3 , -=B sin '+C cos 4 ' +D sin ( 4+4 ' ) .
The first two terms represent the " Semicircular " deviation , the last term the " Quadrantal " deviation .
The " semicircular " deviation is , on the plan proposed by the Astronomer Royal , and extensively practised in the mercantile marine , corrected by magnets ; the " quadrantal " by masses of soft iron placed on each side and at the same level as the compass ; and when the distance of the correction is sufficiently great , this correction may be considered as perfect for the time and place at which it is made ; but when this is not the case , errors are introduced , which it is the object of the paper to consider .
Mr. Evans observed that the standard compass ot the 'Great Eastern , ' which had been corrected on Mr. Airy 's plan by Mr. Gray of Liverpool , had errors of between 5 ?
and 6 ?
on some points .
It occurred to him that this error was caused by the length of the needle and the proximity of the correctors , and to test this he made experiments on the deviation produced on needles of different length by magnets and soft iron with the following results .
With 3-inch single needles deflected by magnets , the deviations were nearly " semicircular ; " but with 6-inch needles , and still more strongly with 12-inch needles , a " sextantal " error of very considerable magnitude was introduced .
With soft iron correctors deflecting a 7-1-inch single needle , in addition to the " quadrantal " deviation , a considerable " octantal " error was introduced .
When the same experiments were made with an Admiralty standard compass card , constructed as usual with four parallel needles , the extremities of which are 15 ?
and 45 ?
on each side of the extremities of the diameter to which they are parallel , there was no appreciable sextantal or octantal deviation .
And on investigating the subject mathematically , it appeared that this arrangement of needles , or the simpler arrangement of two needles each 30 ?
on each side of the diameter , produces a complete compensation and correction of these errors .
The formulae are the following:-The diviation produced in a single needle of length 2a by a magnetic particle M at the same level and at a distance b , is M1(3 a2 ' 15 a2 sn , b-.+8 82 82 giving a sextaatal deviation bearing to the semicircular proportion of 15 a2 3 a2 8 b2 8b2 If the compass has two needles the ends of each t ?
from the ends of a diameter , the deviation is M1i 1 { ( 3a sin~ ' ?
15 a2co si 3 3.2 H I1 + . ? ?
8+ - ' cos---J So that if t =300 , or if the two needles be each 30 ?
on each side of the diameter which is parallel to them , the sextantal term disappears .
If we have four needles the ends of each pair a ?
and a'0 from the ends of a diameter , the sextantal term has a factor , cos 3 Showing that if , as in the Admiralty compass , the needles of each pair are placed at equal distances on each side of the lines of 30 ?
, the sextantal deviation will be reduced to zero .
A similar investigation shows that the same arrangement of needles reduces to zero the octantal error introduced by the too great proximity of the soft iron ; and further , the error introduced by the magnetism of the needle inducing magnetism in the soft iron in its vicinity .
The conclusion of the authors is that by the use of the Admiralty standard compass , or of a compass with two needles each 30 ?
from the diameter parallel to them , the correcting magnets and soft iron correctors may be placed much nearer the compass than can safely be done with a single needle compass card , and the large deviations found in iron ships far more accurately corrected .
Correction of the Quadrantal Deviation.-It has long been known that two compasses placed as in the common double binnacle , produce in each other a negative quadrantal deviation .
The discussion by Mr. Evans of the deviations of all the iron-built ships in the Royal Navy ( Phil. Trans. 1860 , p. 337 ) , showed that the quadrantal deviation in such ships is always positive ; and as there is great difficulty and inconvenience in the usual mode of correcting large quadrantal deviation by soft iron , it occurred to Mr. Evans that the correction might be made by the reciprocal action of two compasses placed at the distance of 18 to 24 inches from each other , as in the common double binnacle .
The precautions to be used are that the two compasses must be of equal power , and as the correction is inversely as the earth 's horizontal force at the place , if great accuracy is required there ought to be the means of adjusting the distance of the two compasses , and the method will probably be found inapplicable in very high magnetic latitudes .
The deflection so produced by one compound compass on a like compass is -3b'l " l-(+a cos a sin 2 -b b'c3 'a sin 4 acosa A3 b2 b b6 cos In this arrangement therefore an octantal error is introduced which may be avoided by the use of two Admiralty standard cards , or cards with two needles each 30 ?
from the diameter which is parallel to them .

