1880 .
] On the Tonicity of the Heart and Arteries .
225* T " On the Tonicity of the Heart and Arteries " By W. H. 7* Gaskell , M.D. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. Michael Foster , Prelector of Physiology in Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received March 1 , 1880 .
: The author has made a lengthened series of observations on the Lart of the frog and tortoise , both on the entire ventricle and on the \#171 ; , ex , supplied , by the help of Roy's* tonometer , with saline solutions Ir with diluted blood ( of rabbit , sheep , or bullock ) .
That the artificial blood solutions differ in their action on the apex -rom the frog 's own blood in degree only and not in kind , and that jonsequently Bernsteinf is wrong in regarding these fluids as specific Stimuli giving rise to rhythmic action , is shown by the following facts .
1 The apex of the frog 's heart brought to quiescence after Bernstein 's method , will beat spontaneously when the pressure in its cavity lb increased by clamping the aortic arches .
, 2 .
If while the heart still remains in its natural position within the body the frog 's own blood be replaced by the artificial blood solution , and the ventricle be then nipped by fine forceps , the apex will remain quiescent for an indefinite length of time .
As soon , however , as the pressure in the cavity is increased , the apex commences to contract , and beats as long as the heart is distended by the increased pressure .
The conclusions to which the author has been led by his experiments are as follows : \#151 ; .
1 .
The heart possesses , like the arteries , what may be called tonicityr and the variations in this tonicity play an important part in determining the features of the cardiac beat .
The apex , when first tied on to the cannula , the pressure of the blood solution being kept constant at 10 cm .
or less , remains quiescent for some time in the position of greatest relaxation .
As , however , the blood solution continues to pass through , the lever of the tonometer rises often very appreciably even before the apex begins to beat .
ThiB rise , unless otherwise explained , would seem to show that the first effect of the blood solution has been to bring the apex into a condition which is no longer that of greatest relaxation for that particular pressure .
Further , in correspondence with this raising of tone of the cardiac muscle by the artificial blood solution , is the alteration in the character of the beat .
The first beats , whether natural or artificially produced , which occur while the ventricle is still in a somewhat relaxed or atonic condition in * " Joum .
of Physiology , " vol. i , p. 452 .
f " Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wissenschaften , " 1876 , p. 385 .
Dr. W. H. Gaskell .
[ Mar. consequence of the operation of being tied on the cannula , are les , height and more pointed in appearance , i.e. , remain a shorter time* the height of contraction than those which are obtained after the bl has been passing some time .
2 .
The tonic condition is in all probability partly due to the alk nity of the blood .
a. After the ventricle or apex beating with artificial blood solut has been brought to standstill by replacing the blood with " norma salt solution , then an alkaline salt solution ( 1 sodium hydrate to 20 0 normal salt solution ) causes beats to reappear , and again the ventri .
stops beating , but no longer in the position of diastole , the standst that now occurs is always a systolic not a diastolic standstill .
b. When the ventricle or apex is beating under the influence of t artificial blood solution and the alkaline solution be sent through , th* the resulting curve shows how the alkaline standstill is brought abot every contraction is as powerful as with the blood solution , the cavi being closed each time , but every relaxation is less perfect , and \lt ; shorter duration than the previous relaxation , while the period of fa contraction in each beat is progessively lengthened , the rate of rhyth : not being much altered ; at last each relaxation becomes invisible , an the lever traces a straight line at the level of the height of full cot traction .
c. When the apex is not beating , but is motionless in the positio of complete relaxation , as is frequently the case when salt solutioi alone is sent through , then the alkaline solution brings it ver gradually from the position of extreme relaxation to that of extrern contraction without the necessary production of a single beat .
Further , if during this tonic action of the alkaline solution , artificia beats be produced , then , as in the case just mentioned , the time oi full contraction in each beat is lengthened as the tonicity rises .
3 .
Dilute acid solutions , such as lactic acid ( 1 lactic acid to 20,000 normal saline solution ) , lower the tonicity of the cardiac muscle .
a. When the lactic acid solution is sent through a beating ventricle or apex , then a curve is produced nearly the exact converse of the curve obtained from alkaline solutions ; the separate beats progressively diminish in force , present a pointed appearance , owing to the extreme shortness of the time of full contraction , and very quickly the ventricle or apex remains still in the position of extreme relaxation .
b. When by means of the acid solution the beats have been much lowered in force , then the alkaline solution can bring them back to their original force and character , and then produce its own \#166 ; characteristic effect , and if the acid solution be again sent through , it gradually overpowers the action of the alkali , and the apex or ventricle slowly falls from a condition of extreme contraction to one of extreme relaxation .
2*27 880 .
] 0n the Tonicity of the Heart and Arteries .
If the acid solution has brought about a condition of nearly h olute relaxed or atonic standstill , then removal of the acid by salt lution does not improve the beats , and does not raise the tonicity , It immediately the alkaline solution is sent through , the tonicity levins to rise , and the beats are strengthened until the ventricle Masses into the condition of systolic or tonic standstill .
d The reverse case is also true ; although salt solution sent through fter the alkaline solution will very gradually bring the ventricle from he contracted to the dilated condition , yet the lactic acid solution Produces the same effect with much greater rapidity .
e. These very dilute alkali and acid solutions do not produce their 'ffects by permanently injuring the cardiac muscle , for in either case t is possible to restore the beats to their original strength and character by sending the artificial blood solution through .
4 .
Certain alkaloids act in this respect in the same manner as ilkalies , others as acids .
a. Digitalin or antiarin in artificial blood solution or in normal salt solution produce exactly the same effect upon both the beating venti icle and the non-beating apex as the alkaline salt solution .
b. Blood solutions containing muscarin and pilocarpin gradually diminish the force of the beat without necessarily slowing the rate of rhythm until the ventricle stops beating in a condition of lelaxation , as in the case of lactic acid solutions ; at the same time the beats show all the characters of the atonic beat .
c. Atropin acts in the same direction as alkalies , but only raises the tonicity to a slight extent , at least with the dilute solutions hitherto employed .
5 .
The tonicity of the muscles of the smaller arteries is increased by alkalies and lowered by acid solutions .
This is concluded from the action of the alkaline and lactic acid solutions upon the vessels of the mylohyoid muscle , upon the rate of flow from the abdominal vein when the solutions are sent through the legs alone and upon the mesenteric vessels .
In all cases with the alkali solution the arteries contract , the rate of flow diminishes or ceases altogether , and as long as the alkali solution is passing through the contraction remains ; with the lactic acid solution , on the other hand , the arteries dilate to their full extent , the rate of flow is markedly increased , and no constriction takes place unless the alkaline solution be again sent through .
The author reserves for another occasion a fuller description of his results , as well as a discussion of their bearings .

