Philos. Trans. No. 482 .
A A Fig. 3 p. 433 .
a a a a b b ba baf aabbkh b daik k g k l h II .
An uncommon Dropsy from the Want of a Kidney ; and a Description of a large Saccus that contained the Water , by Samuel Glass , Surgeon , at Oxford ; sent to Dr. Mead .
MARY Nix , who lived at HamptonPoyle , a small Village in Oxfordshire , had been remarkable all her Life for the preternatural Size of her Belly .
After her Death , I had the Curiosity , together with some learned Gentlemen of the University , to inspect her Body .
Her Mother was then present , and informed us , that this her Daughter was born dropsical ; that she herself had been ill of the same Disease for some time before , and during , her Pregnancy ; but , on the Birth of this Child , she was freed from that Disorder .
November 11 , 1746 .
Read Jan. 8 .
1746-7 .
The Child , tho ' born dropsical , proved otherwise healthy ; and , notwithstanding the Disease continually increased as she grew up , lived to be near twentythree Years of Age .
She was a tall well-proportion 'd Woman , except with Regard to the enormous Size of her Belly ; and , for one of so unwieldy a Bulk , healthy , brisk , and active .
Her Appetite was always good , and she was never more than ordinarily thirsty ; had no remarkable Difficulty of Breathing , not even when she lay supine , nor did her Thighs or Legs ever swell .
Her Menses , which appeared at the usual Time of Life , continued regular , till within eight Months of her Death .
The only Complaint was now-and-then a Pain in making Water ; and the Quantity she made was commonly about four or sive Ounces .
Upon the Suppression of her Catamenia , there succeeded a Dyspnaea , Loss of Appetite , Emaciation of the superior Parts , and a Tumesaction of one of her Legs with Ulcerations .
These Symptoms gradually increased till her Death .
Upon taking the Dimensions of her Body before Dissection , we found the Circumference of her Abdomen to be just six Feet four Inches , and from the Xyphoid Cartilage to the Os Pubis it measured four Feet and half an Inch .
The cafancous Vessels , distributed upon the Abdomen , were remarkably large , and distended with Blood , and the spurious Ribs were pressed greatly outwards and upwards .
After this general View of the external Parts , we began the Dissection , by dividing the Cartilages of the six superior Ribs , and raising the Sternum .
The Thorax being laid open , we observed that the Diaphragm was forcibly protruded into that Cavity .
The Base of the Heart lay under the right Clavicle , and its Apex upon the most convex Part of the Diaphragm ; which Convexity advanced as high up as the third superior Rib .
The Lungs were surprisingly small , scarce exceeding in Magnitude those of a newborn Child .
The right Lobe slightly adhered to the Pleura , the lest was free , and both were in a sound State .
Within the Pericardium was found , as usual , a small Quantity of Liquor , but none in the Cavity of the Thorax .
We next perforated the Abdomen in the most convenient depending Part , and evacuated from thence a surprising Quantity of Water , which was lightly tinged of a Coffee-Colour , limpid as Urine , and not in the least fetid .
This Water was carefully measured , and found to be not above a Pint less than thirty Gallons Wine Measure ; which must weigh , according to the common Calculation , near 240 l. We afterwards made an Incision into the Abdomen along the Linea alba .
The Integuments upon the epigastric Region were very thin ; the abdominal Muscles much extenuated ; and above the Umbilicus the Tunica cellulosa contained no Fat ; but from the Navel to the Os Pubis , the Panniculus adiposus was half an Inch thick .
Upon dilating the Incision , the large membranous Bag that contained the Water presented itself to View , adhering transversly about ten Inches to the anterior Part of the Peritonaeum .
This Adhesion being separated , we had a full View of this wonderful Reservoir , which was of an enormous Size , and had almost occupied the whole Cavity of the Abdomen .
In Figure , Colour , Thickness , Number , Magnitude , and Distribution of Blood vessels , it very much resembled the Uterus of a Cow at the End of Gestation .
The whole Inside was scabrous , and looked as if parboil 'd ; and here and there was observed a small Quantity of a Coffeecolour 'd Sediment .
On the left inferior Part was discovered the Orifice of a Duct , which opened obliquely into the Cavity of the Saccus , and would easily admit of a large Goose Quill .
From this Opening the Tube advanced about twelve Inches between the Membranes of the Bag obliquely upwards , and towards the right , from whence it was inflected downwards , and passed between the Duplicature of the Ligamentum latum Uteri , to be inserted into the Bladder of Urine .
The Saccus was connected to the Ligamentum suspensorium Hepatis , to a considerable Part of the Mesocolon , to the Peritonaeum on the right Side in two or three different Places , to the same Membrane the whole Length of the Spine , and to the Ligamentum latum Uteri on the right Side of the Body .
The Liver was sound , but less than in a natural State ; and its convex Part adhered closely to the Diaphragm .
The Stomach , Spleen , Omentum , small Intestines , and the upper Part of the Colon , were thrust very high up into the left Hypochondrium .
The Convolutions of the lower Part of the same Intestine were entirely obliterated ; and that , together with the Rectum , formed one continued strait Tube , from the left Hypochondrium down to the Anus .
The left Kidney , with its emulgent Vessels and Ureter , were in their natural State and Situation .
The Uterus , Tuba Fallopiana , and Ovarium , on the same Side , had nothing preternatural ; but , on the right Side , the Fallopian Tube and Ovary were disposed in a very extraordinary Manner .
The Tube , by means of the Adhesion of the Ligamentum latum Uteri to the Saccus , was extended to three times its ordinary Length .
The Ovary was likewise , by the same Cause , rendered very preternatural , being no less than five Inches three Quarters long , one Inch broad , two Tenths of an Inch thick , and two Inches and half distant from the Uterus .
The Bladder of Urine was very small , but appeared to be sound .
We then made an accurate Search for the right Kidney ; but , to our great Surprise , found no such Viscus , nor any thing analogous to it , unless the Saccus that contained the Water already described , may be esteemed such : And what seemed to favour this Opinion , was the Disposition of the emulgent Vessels on the right Side , which were propagated from the Aorta and Vena cava to this Saccus , in the same manner as to the Kidney on the opposite Side ; and , after having ran twelve or fourteen Inches between the Membranes of the Bag without any Ramifications , were distributed all over it in the Manner before-mention 'd .
From the foregoing Account the following Queries are naturally suggested , which I leave to the Determination of the Learned : Query 1 .
Was not the Saccus originally a mis-shapen Kidney , and the Duct a Ureter ?
Query 2 .
Was not the Water contained in the Saccus prevented from growing putrid , by being continually drained off thro ' the Duct into the Bladder of Urine , and by being afresh supplied by the emulgent Artery ; and more being secreted than was evacuated , the Quantity thereby continually increased ?
Query 3 .
Was not this the Reason why the Patient had never any anasarcous Swellings of her Thighs or Legs , nor any Thirst , or other Signs of a confirmed Dropsy ?
Query 4 .
Were not the Lungs prevented from growing by the great Diminution of the Cavity of the Thorax , and the Pressure they sustained from the distended Abdomen ?
And might not their never having occupied a larger Space than they did at Birth , be the Reason she never laboured under any Difficulty of Breathing ?
Query 5 .
Was not the Bladder of Urine likewise by the superincumbent Weight , prevented from dilating itself ; and that the Reason why the Water was often made , and always in so small a Quantity ?
In order to convey a more clearIdea of the several Parts already described , to those who may not have an Opportunity of ~~ them ( they being properly preserved for that Purpose ) , and being sensitive of the great Difficulty of clearly representing by Words such Things as are out of the ordinary Course of Nature , I must beg Leave to refer the Reader to the Figures hereto annexed .
See TA B. I. FI G. I. aaaa , The great Saccus that contained the Water .
bb , The greater Diameter of the Saccus .
cc , The lesser Diameter .
d , A pricked Line shows the Entrance of the emulgent Vessels .
e f , Shows the Course of the Duct between the Membranes of the Saccus .
f , The Orifice opening obliquely into the Cavity .
e g , The inflected Part of the Duct , after its Egress from the Saccus , which passed between the Ligamentum latum Uteri to the Bladder of Urine .
g , The Duct , divided near the Bladder , where its Cavity was so small as only to admit of a common-siz 'd Probe .
FI G. 2 .
Represents the posterior View of the Uterus , Fallopian Tubes , and Ovary .
aa , The Uterus .
A , The Os Tineae .
bc , The Fallopian Tube in a natural State .
c , The Morsus Diaboli .
d , The left Ovary in a natural State .
ee , The Ligamentum rotundum .
fg , The right Fallopian Tube .
g , The Morsus Diaboli .
hh , The right Ovary .
ii , The Ligamentum rotundum .
kkkk , The Ligamentum latum Uteri .
ll , Its Adhesion to the Saccus .

