OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Sir William Bowman was born at Nantwich in 1816 .
His mind was in early life directed towards natural science ; for bis father , Mr. John Eddowes Bowman , a banker , was a Fellow of the Linnean Society , an ardent botanist and geologist , an intimate associate with many of the best naturalists of his time , and , during the last years of his life , one of the most active promoters of literary and scientific societies in Manchester .
The ' Catalogue of Scientific Papers ' gives references to fifteen papers on various subjects which were published by him between 1828 and 1842 in the Transactions of the Linnean and Geological Societies or in scientific journals .
They show that he was a careful and minute observer in a wide range of study , a clear and vigorous descriptive writer , and a good artist ; the illustrations of some of his papers , engraved from his own drawings , are admirable .
Sir William in his boyhood studied botany and geology with his father and drawing with both his parents ; for his mother also was an accurate and skilful artist ad naturam , both with the pencil and in needlework .
A disposition for earnest study and for high mental and moral culture prevailed in his home , and all his brothers were in their several ranges of work successful and well esteemed .
One was Professor of Classics in the Manchester New ; College ; another was an architect of good repute in the same town and author , with his partner , of a work on " The Churches of the Middle Ages ; " the third was Professor of Practical Chemistry in King 's College , and author of two small widely-read books on Practical Chemistry and on Medical Chemistry .
They all died before him .
After completing his general education at Hazelwood School , near Birmingham , Bowman was apprenticed to Mr. Joseph Hodgson , a Fellow of the Royal Society , Surgeon to the Birmingham General Hospital , and one of the most distinguished surgeons of the time .
He could not have had better opportunities for the study of surgery than were thus provided for him .
The hospital , in which he was a house-pupil , supplied large numbers of cases which he could observe and record , and Mr. Hodgson was not only an able teacher and an earnest worker in surgery , but , as is proved by the illustrations of his book on ' Diseases of the Arteries , ' which were engraved from his VOL. Lil .
^ own drawings , be was an excellent anatomical ai'tist .
Thus encouraged , Bowman studied constantly and carefully , and made many records of cases and pathological drawings , some of which were published in 1834 , in illustration of Ryland 's ' Essay on Diseases of the Larynx and Trachea .
' The records of the cases and the coloured engravings appear alike accurate , and are at least remarkable as the work of a student only eighteen years old .
In 1837 he entered as a pupil at King 's College , and , after the course of study usual at that time , became a Member of the College of Surgeons in 1839 .
In the same year he was appointed a Demonstrator of Anatomy and Curator of the Museum at King 's College , and he gave himself especially to the study of minute anatomy .
The improvements of microscopes and the facilities of working with them had , at that time , so increased the range and importance of histology ( or general anatomy as it was then called ) , that it had become the most attractive of all the subjects of biological research .
It was only in 1836 , on the appointment of Dr. Sharpey at University College , that it was , for the first time in any London school , separated from the teaching of descriptive anatomy and combined with that of physiology .
Dr. Todd , soon after , taught it in the same method at King 's College , and Bowman worked with him and for him .
Dexterous , patient , loving completeness , and working after the manners of both the naturalist and the artist , he soon attained great results , and they were shown , especially , in four papers , illustrated with engravings from his own drawings , which were published in 1840 and the following two years .
The first , " On the Structure and Movements of Voluntary Muscles , " was published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1840 .
It was followed , in the next volume , by an " Additional Note on the Contraction of Voluntary Muscles " ; and in the volume for 1842 by a paper " On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney " ; and a paper " On the Minute Anatomy of Patty Degeneration of the Liver , " was published in the ' Lancet , ' of January 22 , 1842 .
Among the speedy evidences of the value of these papers were his election into the Royal Society in 1841 , and the award of a Royal Medal in 1842 ; but yet more complete evidence was and is in their abiding reputation .
Other anatomical essays of great value were published by him between 1842 and 1851 .
They include the articles on Mucous Membrane , Muscle , Muscular Motion , and Pacinian Bodies in the 'Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology , ' vol. 3 ; eight others relating chiefly to muscles and the sense-organs , in the ' Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man , ' which was published between 1843 and 1856 , and of which Dr. Todd and himself were joint authors : and a small volume of " Lectures on the parts concerned in the Operations on the Eye and on the Structure of the Retina , " which were given at the Royal Ophthalmic Hospital in 1847 , and with which Were included a notable paper on the Structure of the Vitreoug Humour , and a few Cases of Ophthalmic Disease .
It may justly be believed that no series of papers by one author has been more important in the progress of histology and of its influence on physiology than were these .
They have been called by many " epoch-making ; ' ' and the term may certainly be well applied to those on the structure of muscles and of the kidneys .
In the structure of striated muscle , Bowman showed that the whole substance of the fibre , " primitive fasciculus , " exclusive of the sarcolemma and nuclei , il muscle-corpuscles ( of both of which he gave the first minutest account ) , was composed of particles , " sarcous elements , " united together by an intermediate material ( concerning which he offered no exact opinion ) , so as to form in one direction fibrillse , and in another discs .
This conception cleared away the many previous views as to the nature of the striation ; and , though subsequent researches have led to the belief that the structure of the fibre is more complicated than he thought , yet , in many ways , the ideas at present accepted may be regarded as expansions or modifications of those expressed in these papers .
The " sarcous element " is not now regarded as a simple homogeneous body , but as one made up of different parts : but it is still held that the fibre is made up of such " elements , " and that , as Bowman believed , the act of muscular contraction consists essentially in a change in these elements .
By his researches on the structures of the kidney he first made known the relation of the blood-glomerules to the uriniferous tubules , which were previously supposed to end blindly or in loops , with the glomerules lying in spaces outside them .
He gave a very good account of the circulation in the kidney , and rendered possible a tiue view of the process of urinary secretion , and suggested the double nature of that process ; a suggestion which subsequent researches have done little more than amplify and enforce .
In his work on mucous membranes , Bowman gave clearness and distinctness to the views previously arrived at by Henle ; and by his descriptions of their structures and of the glands associated with them , he contributed largely to the knowledge of the process of secretion .
And in his studies of the structures of the eye he added clearness and fulness to all previous descriptions of them , and made many things sure that were before his work deemed doubtful .
Indeed , it may safely be said that scarcely inferior in value to his discoveries were the many instances in which his accuracy and clearness decided doubts and questions , and led to the general acceptance of his descriptions as sure for teaching and for guidance in further research .
And , though he did not often work at what might be deemed experimental physiology , yet he derived from his minute anatomy of structures many accurate suggestions of their modes of action ; he called it- Physiological Anatomy , and made it distinctly physiological whenever it was reasonable to deduce function from structure .
In 1848 Bowman was appointed joint lecturer with Dr. Todd on Physiology and Physiological and Morbid Anatomy at King 's College , and this appointment he held till 1855 , when he was succeeded by Dr. Beale , who had shared the lectureship with him in and after 1853 .
His lectures were , like his published works , clear , well-defined , plainly descriptive , fully illustrated by specimens and drawings ; and he lectured very earnestly , as one sure of the importance of his subject , always at work in it , and wanting his pupils to work with him .
His resignation of his lectureship was due , chiefly to his constantly increasing practice ; for , busy as he had been in scientific research , he had never neglected surgery .
In 1840 , when King 's College was established , he and Mr. ( now Sir John ) Simon , who had been Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy , were appointed Assistant Surgeons , and in 1846 he was appointed to a similar office in the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital in Moorfields .
In both these he gained high repute , for he was as observant in the practice of surgery as he was in the study of structures , and he was very dexterous and careful .
It was for some time doubtful whether general or ophthalmic surgery would be his chief occupation ; but this was determined by events over which he had no control .
At the time of his appointment at Moorfields , in 1846 , Mr. Dalrymple , who was the Chief Surgeon to the hospital , had the leading ophthalmic practice in London , but his health was failing , and when he died , in 1851 , Bowman succeeded him both in the hospital and in the chief private practice .
From this time he gave himself almost entirely to ophthalmic surgery , and his devotion to it was increased by the singular coincidence that , in 1851 , while he was at the hospital , von Graefe and Donders met there for the first time .
They both worked with him , studying especially with the recently invented ophthalmoscope ; and thus began their life-long friendship and constant mutual help and encouragement .
His last published writing was his biography of Donders in the 49th volume of the Proceedings of this Society .
Bowman was singularly well fitted for ophthalmic surgery : light-handed , dexterous , clear-sighted , calm , and , by his own researches , familiar with all the structures of the eye , his operations were faultless .
His educated sense of sight made him perfect in the use of the ophthalmoscope , and his habits of minute research made him observant of every thing that might guide to accurate diagnosis .
Besides , he had many habits and mental qualities favourable to the attainment of success .
He was punctual , businesslike , calm and deliberate in consultation , gentle and sympathetic , always clear in the statement of his opinion , making all feel confidence in him .
And he never showed any of the faults often ascribed to specialists .
His method of work continued , as it always had been , thoroughly scientific ; all the papers that he published show the same care and completeness , the same earnestness and width in research as his earlier anatomical studies ; and he never lost the advantage of the general knowledge of surgery which he gained in his duties at King 's College Hospital , to which , after sixteen years ' service as Assistant Surgeon , he was appointed Surgeon in 1856 .
Of the numerous ophthalmological papers which he published after 1850 , and which are all included in the second volume of his collected works , the most important and influential on practice were those on the Treatment of Epiphora , in the 5 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions , ' vol. 34 , and in the ' Ophthalmic Hospital Reports , ' vol. 1 , 1857 ; on Conical Cornea , in the same Reports in 1859 ; and on the use of two needles in Capsular Cataract , in the same Transactions , vol. 36 .
Other valuable papers were published in the ' Lancet ' and other medical journals , and in the ' Proceedings of the Ophthalmological Society ; * and of all it may justly be said , as it may of his minute anatomical work , that , although later studies of the same subjects have added facts and have increased the practical utility of those which he had made known , yet none have detected in them errors .
In practice , as in minute research , he was always accurate and careful , and limited his deductions to such as he could , at least , be nearly sure of .
He thus exercised great influence in the increase and diffusion of the knowledge of safe ophthalmic surgery , and scarcely less than the influence of his writings was that which was due to his speedy adoption of the right opinions and practices of others , especially in the use of the ophthalmoscope , and of the antiseptic treatment of wounds , and in the promotion of von Graefe 's pathology and treatment of glaucoma , and of Donders 's discoveries relating to errors of refraction and their remedies .
The quantity of work that Bowman did may appear the more remarkable for the fact that his health , though not unsound , was never vigorous .
It was , probably , for this reason that he limited his work almost exclusively to study and the plain duties of his life .
In subjects far beyond his range of work he often seemed to enjoy thinking and wondering , but he did not give his whole mind to them ; he worked for facts , and for the best use of facts in his practice or in the extension of science .
Similarly , he avoided all the larger official and social occupations of public and professional life , and engaged only in some that were nearly associated with his proper work , as in the Councils of the Royal Society and of King 's College , in the Royal Institution , in the Ophthalmological Society , of which in 1880 he was elected the first President , and in the Association for the Advancement of Medicine by Research , of which he might be regarded as the founder .
In these he did all that could be deemed his duty , and he b 2 VI did it quietly , wisely , and -without self-assertion ; just as he did many generous things in charity and the promotion of religion .
His personal character , hardly less than his scientific eminence , made all who knew him wish to show him how widely and deeply he was esteemed .
He received many honours from universities and scientific societies , the titles of which are added to his name in the List of Fellows ; he was created a baronet in 1884 ; his friends at home and abroad presented him with his portrait by Mr. Ouless , R.A. , and arranged for the reprinting of all his works and all their illustrations in the complete edition recently edited by Professor Burdon Sanderson and Mr. Hulke , after careful revision by himself ; and in 1883 the Ophthalmological Society founded in his honour the " Bowman Lecture .
" He had resigned the Surgeoncy of the Ophthalmic Hospital in 1876 ; but he retained the pre-eminence in private practice till , after hold ing it for more than thirty years , he began to retire and to spend an increasing portion of his time at Joldwynds , near Dorking , where he had a country-house in beautiful scenery , and gardens which he loved to cultivate .
Here he enjoyed the prosperity which he had attained after great difficulties in his early professional life , and with it he had complete domestic happiness .
He had married in 1842 a daughter of Mr. Thomas Paget , a highly esteemed surgeon at Leicester ; they had seven children , and , as he had imitated his parents in his scientific and artistic studies , so , and with the like success , were they imitated in his home .
As one who could speak with knowledge states , " they were imitated in the high moral and intellectual training of the children , " and " in the high standard of rectitude which they maintained .
" But , besides all this , he enjoyed his partial retirement because it gave him time to gratify his love of Nature and of scientific observation .
He cultivated rare plants , and those about which questions might , perhaps , be determined by experiment ; he set apart a piece of land in which he might find the fittest place for each species , and subject it to various tests ; and , with willing coincidence , he especially studied the Lathraese , which had been the subject of one of his father 's earliest investigations .
He formed what Mr. Thiselton Dyer , with whom he was in frequent correspondence , and from whom these facts were learned , considered one of the best collections of open-air plants in the country , and he often blended his scientific work with his love of art in so grouping shrubs and flowers as to show by the arrangement of forms and colours the most perfect beauty .
Thus he attained old age without apparent diminution of mental power or of the love of acquiring knowledge ; and , to the last , his studies of science and of art gave him great happiness .
It was little more than a week after his final retirement from practice , and his leaving the house in Clifford Street in which he had long lived , vii that , on the 29th of March in last year , he died of pneumonia at Joldwynds .
J. P. Carl Schorlemmer , Professor of Organic Chemistry in Victoria University , Owens College , Manchester , was born in 1834 , at Darmstadt , a town remarkable as having given birth to many distinguished chemists .
He was educated at Darmstadt and at Giessen ; he came to Manchester as private assistant to Professor Roscoe , in the year 1858 , and shortly afterwards , on the resignation of Mr. Dittmar , he became the official laboratory assistant in Owens College .
In this position he not only supervised the practical work of the laboratory , but also lectured on organic chemistry ; yet he found time for original investigation , and shortly afterwards began his work on the hydrocarbons , which has placed his name high in the list of organic chemists of the century .
The commencement of this research was due to the initiative of the late Mr. John Barrow , of the Dalton Chemical Works , Gorton , who placed a sample of the light oils which he had obtained in the distillation of cannel coal at Professor Roscoe 's disposal .
At that time our knowledge of the chemical composition of the light boiling coal-oils was very incomplete , and Schorlemmer was urged to begin the investigation .
This work led to results which altogether modified the existing ideas concerning the constitution of the paraffin hydrocarbons , and laid the foundation of the modern science of organic chemistry .
Up to 1848 the only known member of the paraffin series of hydrocarbons was methane , CH4 .
In the above year the researches of Kolbe , on the one hand , on the electrolysis of the fatty acids , and those of Frankland , on the other , respecting the isolation of the so-called alcohol radicals , had opened out new fields for investiga-tion .
The hydrocarbons , then termed the alcohol radicals , were supposed to contain two molecules of the radical , methyl being represented as CHs\#151 ; CH3 , ethyl as C2H6\#151 ; C2H8 .
Together with these , a second series of hydrocarbons , possessing the same composition , was supposed to exist , thus : C2H6H , ethyl hydride , having the same composition as the radical methyl , and 04H9H , butyl hydride , having the same composition as the radical ethyl , were considered as being bodies standing in the same relation to the radical as an alcohol does to an ether .
The existence of two such series of hydrocarbons is , however , only explicable upon the supposition of a difference existing between the four combining powers of each carbon atom , and such a supposition is at variance with a general theory of the mode of building up of the carbon compounds .
Vlll Schorlemmer at once saw the importance of the question , and not only seized upon the correct method of solution , but carried it out successfully .
If , said he , the radical methyl , CHS\#151 ; CH3 , is identical with ethyl hydride , C2H6H , not only must they have the same properties , but must yield the same product on treatment with chlorine .
This identity he proved , experimentally , not only in the above , the most simple instances , but also in the more complicated cases of ethyl-amyl and di-amyl , C2H6\#151 ; -CsHn and C5HU\#151 ; CeHu , these hydrocarbons being shown to yield , respectively , chloride of heptyl and chloride of decatyl , C7H15CI and Ci0H2iC1 .
It is difficult to overestimate the importance of this discovery , for it proved the nonexistence of two sets of isomeric hydrocarbons of the paraffin series , and , therefore , placed the theory of carbon combination on a firm basis .
This , though the most important of Schorlemmer 's researches , is only one amongst many , a list of thirty-two separate papers being found in the Royal Society 's Catalogue .
In 1871 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society , and in 1874 his position in the scientific world was acknowledged by the creation by the Council of Owens College of a distinct Chair of Organic Chemistry , the only one at present in England , of which he was the first occupant .
It was , however , not only as an expert experimentalist that Schorlemmer excelled .
He possessed an exhaustive knowledge , uncommon even amongst professional chemists , of the extensive literature , not only of the chemical science of his day , but also of that from the earliest times .
His acquaintance with other subjects was also considerable ; thus , if he had not been a distinguished chemist , he would have been an equally remarkable botanist .
Moreover , he possessed , in full measure , that dogged power of work which distinguishes the German , and which has placed that people in the front as a nation of investigators .
He became joint author with Professor Roscoe in the 'Treatise of Chemistry , ' and in the organic portion of that work especially , he has shown both a perfect knowledge of the science , and remarkable literary power .
Only those who have attempted to write , even a moderately complete treatise on modern organic chemistry , can know what serious labour such work entails .
Several distinguished chemists have given up the task as hopeless , and have not completed what they had begun .
If Schorlemmer 's life had been spared , nothing would have prevented him from bringing his work to a satisfactory conclusion .
As a laboratory teacher Schorlemmer was excelled by few , merely as a lecturer by many .
But , although , like some eminent lecturers , his diction may have been faulty , the staple article was there , and no real student who passed through his hands can be named who does not express his admiration for the man , and the sense of obligation IX wliicli he felt for the masterly instruction which he received .
The long list of honours which his students gained , both in London , and afterwards in the Victoria University , prove how successful his teaching was .
Although for many years a naturalised Englishman , and enjoying and appreciating English freedom and English ways , he retained more than is usual a lively interest in the welfare of the " Vater-land .
" Schorlemmer 's name will long be remembered in the annals of our science as an investigator , as an author , and as a teacher .
H. E. R. Henry Tibbats Stainton , who died at Mountsfield , Lewisham , on December 2 , 1892 , was the eldest son of Henry Stainton , Esq. , of Lewisham .
He was born in London on August lo , j.o^2 , but i\#187 ; as removed to Lewisham when only a few weeks old , and thus piacti-cally resided all his life in this now suburban borough .
He was educated almost entirely at home , and by a lady , and finally foi a short time at King 's College , where amongst his companions was Professor Cayley .
The regulations of his father 's household were very stringent , and young Stainton during the whole of his childhood and boyhood was not allowed to mix with companions of his own age , and to this , and partly perhaps also to extreme myopia , the marked diffidence , amounting almost to shyness , exhibited by him throughout life was probably due .
For several years he was engaged in commercial occupations under his father , and thus acquired those habits of method and accuracy that were so marked in his character during the whole of his career , for he never wrote a letter to which there was the slightest possibility attached of reference to it being necessary hereafter without hand copying it .
About the year 1840 he made the acquaintance of the Rev. William Johnson , a friend of his father , and an ardent collector of British Lepidoptera , and it was no doubt from him that he acquired a taste for entomological pursuits , to which he at once devoted himself with great ardour .
From the first his attention as a specialist turned to the small Moths known as Micro-Lepidoptera , and one of his first essays was " A Monograph of the British Argyromiges , " published in the ' Zoologist ' for 1848 , a work which he was in after years wont to style " most rubbishy .
" At the commencement of his scientific career Stainton discovered that British entomologists were not in touch with their fellow-workers on the Continent and elsewhere , and he commenced a correspondence with all the prominent students of his special branch , which as years went on was strengthened by visiting them personally and by inviting them to be his guests at Mountsfield .
After the death of James Francis Stephens , in ]852 , he acquired the very extensive library formed by that entomologist , and built an annexe to his house for its reception , and this formed the nucleus of the rich collection of entomological works of which he ultimately became possessed .
Stainton 's forte undoubtedly lay in the direction of working out the life histories of the minute Insects he studied .
When in early life other occupations gave him but little of an ordinary working day to devote to his studies , he got over the difficulty by rising at five o'clock in the morning , and this habit ( which was partly inherited ) he continued down to the beginning of his fatal illness .
The minute size and the concealed habits of the majority of the objects of his study rendered the greatest patience necessary for the discovery of their modes of life , and the peculiar condition of his eyesight ( before alluded to ) no doubt aided him , for by the unaided eye he was able to detect what to most others was invisible without a lens , and it was probably owing to this cause that during the whole of his life he was never able to use the compound microscope , but contented himself with a pocket glass of comparatively low power .
His principal separate works are , ' An Attempt at a Systematic Catalogue of the British Tineidao and Pterophoridse , ' 1849 , with Supplement in 1851 ; the volume on " Tineina " in the 'Insecta Britannica ' series , 1854 , which from a strictly scientific point of view is usually regarded as his best ; ' A Manual of British Butterflies and Moths , 2 vols .
, 18o7 and 1859 , which is still the most concise treatise on the subject ; The Natural History of the TineinEe , in 13 vols .
, 1855-73 , with the assistance of his old friend Mr. J. W. Douglas , and of Professor Zeller , of Glogau ( afterwards Stettin ) , and Professor Prey , of Zurich , an ambitious work in four languages , each volume delineating and describing the life histories of a large number of species , and for which a host of still unpublished material had been accumulated ; several local faunge , such as the ' Tineina of Southern Europe ' ( in connexion with which he passed each spiung for many years upon the Riviera ) ; ' Tineina of Syria and Asia Minor ' ; and ' Tineina of North America ' ( the latter ediied by him ) .
He also published many papers in the Transactions of Societies and in Journals , and in connexion with entomological journalistic literature Stainton became most prominent .
In 1856 he established the ' Entomologist 's Weekly Intelligencer , ' published at one penny ( !
) , an attempt to popularise the study in this country , with , at the same time , a view to induce mere collectors to look at the subject from a more serious point of view .
If not always successful , he , through the medium of this journal , was the means of bringing forward many young men who afterwards became prominent workers .
The ' Intelligencer ' went through ten volumes , and was discontinued in 1861 .
The ' Entomologist 's Annual ' was commenced in 1855 and continued xi to 1874 , mainly a resume of the additions to the British Insect fauna in each year .
In 1864 he , in conjunction with several friends ( of whom the writer of this notice was one ) , established the 'Entomologist 's Monthly Magazine , ' which continues , and of which he looked over the revise of the number for December , 1892 , only a few days before his death .
For many years he held reunions of young entomologists at his house , for along time every Wednesday evening , and subsequently less frequently ; and it was on one of these occasions that the writer first met him , about thirty-five years ago , an event that ripened into a friendship for life .
In 1848 he joined the Entomological Society of London , was a Secretary in 1850-51 and President in 1881-82 , and there were few more regular attendants at the meetings .
He was elected into the Linnean Society in 1859 , was a Secretary for a short time , and a Vice-President in 1883-85 .
He became F.R.S. in 1867 , and was on the Council in 1880-82 .
At the meetings of the British Association for the Advancement of Science he acted as a Secretary of Section D in 1864 , and from 1867 to 1872 .
He became Secretary of the Ray Society in 1861 at a critical moment in its history , and continued down to 1872 .
In 1871 he was instrumental in founding the ' Zoological Record ' Association , of which he became Secretary until the publication was taken over by the Zoological Society in 1886 , and to his liberality it wa3 largely owing that the ' Record was not allowed to lapse .
The indications given above show some of the results ( but by no means all ) of an unusually busy life ; in fact Stainton revelled in work .
He was never of a strong constitution , and suffered much from gastric troubles .
It must he now fully fifteen years ago that he had a serious illness , but not of long duration .
Nevertheless those who knew him intimately noticed a marked change in his character afterwards .
His capacity for close continuous study became impaired , and he sought work more and more in a secretarial and administrative direction .
Stainton was a man of great geniality , and also of most marked individuality , extremely methodical and conservative in his habits , slow to accept or even to realise changes , yet hia astonishment w he became convinced that a change was beneficial , and that e a not found it out before , was sometimes almost ludicrous .
In polities he was an active Liberal , and took a prominent position in the party so far as concerned We.st Kent , and subsequently t e oroug o Lewisham , until the recent " split , " when he became a dissentient .
As a'friend , only those who knew him long and intimately can realise e loss they have sustained .
As a benefactor , those who received proof of his generosity were many , but in this respect he " did good by stealth , " and it was not until after his death that the writer had even VOL. LII .
Xll an idea of the pecuniary help received from him by some of his fellow-workers .
In local affairs his interest and benevolence in the educational and charitable institutions of the parish of Lewisham are now , alas !
matters of history .
For more than two years before his death his friends noticed with concern that his health was visibly and seriously impaired .
A severe attack of eczema was followed by chorea , and this by severe gastric disturbance .
About a year ago , indications of cancer of the stomach showed themselves , and became more and more confirmed .
His illness was painless , but the great weakness constantly increased , as did his inability to retain or assimilate nourishment , and he passed peacefully away , in full possession of his mental faculties to the last .
In 1846 he married Isabel , the youngest daughter of Thomas Dunn , Esq. , of Sheffield , but had no family .
She survives him , and was his constant companion in all his work , travels , and excursions , and his devoted attendant during his long illness .
B. McL .
Thomas Archer Hirst , the third and youngest son of Mr. Thomas Hirst , a wool-stapler , was born at Heckmondwike , in Yorkshire , on 22nd April , 1830 .
He was educated at the West Biding Proprietary School ; and , in 1844 he became an articled pupil of a surveyor at Halifax .
It was in this office that he made the acquaintance of John Tyndall , who became a life-long friend of Hirst , and exercised a deep influence on his scientific career ; and , in particular , it was the example of Tyndall which led him to give up the pursuit of the profession at first chosen for him .
Tyndall had left England to study chemistry , under Bunsen , at Marburg ; and thither Hirst followed him , in 1849 , to study mathematics , physics , and chemistry .
After three years at that University he obtained the degree of Ph. D. , on examination in his three subjects and an approved dissertation in analytical geometry .
Subsequently , a short time was spent in Gottingen with Gauss and Weber , and then he went to Berlin where he attended lectures by Dirichlet , Steiner , and Joachimsthal .
His intercourse with Steiner did much to determine the ultimate bent of his mathematical investigations ; bat some years elapsed before it was fully indicated , as the majority of his earlier papers are devoted to researches in mathematical physics .
He succeeded Tyndall , at Queenwood , in 1853 , on the appointment of the latter at the Boyal Institution ; but this post was resigned in 1856 on account of the delicate health of his wife , whom he had married in 1854 .
The succeeding winter was spent at Biarritz and Pau , but without permanent good results , as Mrs. Hirst died in Paris , in 1857 .
Tyndall took him to Switzerland for six weeks , Xlll and , on their return , left him in Paris , where the next winter was occupied in attending lectures by Chasles , Lame , and others , and in making the acquaintance of the leading French mathematicians .
In the winter of 1858-59 he was in Rome ; and subsequently he travelled in Italy , making the acquaintance of many mathematicians , especially of his friend Cremona .
Returning to England in 1860 , he was appointed mathematical master at University College School ; and he held this post for a period of five years , during which he made his first developments in teaching geometry .
The experience of the results then attained led him to join the Association for the Improvement of Geometrical Teaching , when it was formed in 1871 ; and for the first seven years of its existence he was its President and took an active part in its work .
He had been elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1861 , and it was from this date onwards that his researches are devoted to the various branches of pure geometry which proved of most absorbing interest to him .
He was appointed Professor of Physics at University College in 1865 , and , on the death of Professor De Morgan in 1867 , he succeeded to the Professoi'ship of Pure Mathematics ; but the latter chair he resigned in 1870 to become Assistant Registrar in the University of London .
In 1873 , the date of the establishment of the Royal Naval College at Greenwich , he was appointed Director of Naval Studies ; and he continued to discharge the duties of that office for ten years .
The precarious condition of his health then compelled him to resign : and he subsequently lived in comparative retirement , spending most of his winters abroad , until his death on 16th February , 1892 .
Hirst took a prominent part in the foundation of the London Mathematical Society in 1865 , served as its President from 1872 to 1874 , and was a member of its Council for over twenty years .
His active co-operation with the Society did much to extend its influence : and it was largely to the pages of its Proceedings that his papers on pure geometry were contributed .
These are the papers containing the particular researches for which a Royal Medal was awarded to him in 1883\#151 ; the year which practically marks the termination of his public life .
He had served on the Council of the Royal Society in the years 1864-66 , 1871-73 , 1880-82 : after 1883 , the only sign of activity was the production of several papers , one of which in continuation of his earlier researches is of considerable importance .
The amount of Hirst 's published work is not great ; but his work is valuable , and an appreciable portion of it has been translated into French and into Italian .
His papers are singularly clear .
and side issues , that might lead him away from the main line of development of his subjects , are severely excluded .
It is evident that he XIV bestowed great care not merely in carrying oat his investigations , but in considering the form in which they are expressed : and his reluctance to premature publication of incomplete work may be gathered from the fact that , though , on quitting the Presidential Chair of the London Mathematical Society on 12th November , 1874 , he made a brief statement of some results which he had obtained in the theory of Correlation of Space , the full exposition of his results was not communicated to the Society until 9th January , 1890 .
The work with which his name as a mathematician will be most definitely associated is contained in his papers on the Correlation of Planes and the Correlation of Space .
The simplest space of two dimensions is a plane , and the elements of such a space are a point and a straight line ; a correspondence is established between two planes when all the elements of one plane are connected by a relation or relations with all the elements of the other .
When the relations are such that , in general , one element of one plane is associated with one ( and with only one ) element of the other plane , and , the correspondence is unique .
If each point in one plane corresponds uniquely with a point in the ofher , and likewise each line in one plane uniquely with a line in the other , the correspondence is called a homography : the theory of homography is considered at length by Chasles in his ' Traite de Geometry Superieure .
' If each point in one plane correspond uniquely with a line in the other , and likewise each line in the one plane with a point in the other , the correspondence is a correlation .
A few properties of correlative planes are proved by Chasles in the treatise quoted : it is Hirst 's distinction to have constructed the theory of correlation of planes and to have developed it to a great degree of perfection .
The extension of the theory of correlation so that it may be applied to space of three dimensions was adverted to by Chasles in his ' Aper^u Historique ' ; the full extension was carried out by Hirst , whose investigations in this subject , together with those of his friends Rudolf Sturm , Cremona , and others , have resulted in important and substantial additions to the theory of pure geometry .
The following memoranda of Dr. Hirst are doe to Professor Tyndall ; the present state of his health is sufficient to account for their brevity .
A. R. F. [ Memoranda concerning Dr. ITirst .
' ] The " railway mania " was at its height , and profitable employment was in prospect for young men trained to the use of the theodolite , spirit-level , chain , and drawing-pen .
Youths of well-to-do families were articled in numbers to a profession offering so many attractions .
Under such circumstances , Thomas Archer Hirst was articled , in 1846 , to Mr. Richard Carter , then resident in Halifax , in whose office , at the time , I happened to be principal assistant .
He was then about sixteen years of age .
His father had been engaged in the wool trade , his mother was a widow , and he was the youngest of a family of three sons .
The West Riding of Yorkshire was then the battle-field of two great rival railway companies\#151 ; the West Riding Junction and the West Riding Union .
Our duty at the time consisted in the preparation of plans and sections of the lines proposed by the latter company .
Save in the office , I saw but little of Hirst at the commencement\#151 ; he being told off in the field to a party different from mine .
But an intimacy gradually grew up between us , and in due time , though I was ten years his senior , we became steadfast friends .
Influenced by the writings of Carlyle , Emerson , Fichte , and other philosophers , I held , in those days , very serious views of human conduct and duty .
After some time , I noticed that my conversations with Hirst were producing a similar shade of earnestness in his mind .
In 1848 , I quitted England for Germany , choosing the University of Marburg , in Hesse Cassel , wdiere , in regard to science , Bunsen was then the leading star .
Hirst , instead of pursuing the profession chosen for him , soon resolved to follow me to that University .
He paid me a preliminary visit in the summer of 1849 .
It was associated with a pathetic incident .
Prior to the examination for the Doctor s Degree , it was customary for the candidates to visit the Professors , and to invite them to be present at the examination .
1 was on my way to the rooms of one of the Professors , when the postman , meeting me in the street , placed a letter in my hands .
It was from a young colleague of Hirst 's , who worked in the same office with him in Halifax .
I was stunned by the perusal of its first few lines .
Hirst had left his mother in good health , and this letter informed me of her sudden death .
The writer told me that he had also written to Hirst , but that knowing his strong attachment to his mother , he v as afraid to let him know the worst .
He trusted to my discretion to disclose it to him in the gentlest manner possible .
n returning to our lodgings , I found that Hirst had receive ie letter announcing his mother 's illness , and was making preparations for his immediate return to England .
He was far from we .
m those days he frequently suffered from a malady of the throat , ' entirely quitted him in later years .
Everything being prepare 1'i the journey , he had his trunk taken to the coach office , u lere , waiting some time , he entered the 1 1 was hi^giea- ' 1 plexity ; for , while shrinking from imparting to him the knowledge in my possession , I could not bear to allow him to return , chens ling the delusion that his mother still lived .
On squeezing his hand tor U xvi the last time , I said to him , " Dear Tom , prepare your mind for the worst .
" His reply was a startled , steadfast look , and , in a moment , he added , " John , my mother is dead .
Tell me all ; I can bear it .
" " Ye ?
, " I replied , " she is dead , " and he drove away .
After my severance from Halifax , Hirst was accustomed to hold a little weekly symposium in his lodgings .
A group of young fellows desiring intellectual intercourse used thus to meet , mainly for the discussion of questions touching upon religion .
One of them , I remember , was the son of a Congregational]st minister ; another a young author of considerable ability\#151 ; at that time an ardent admirer of Carlyle , but who afterwards became an equally ardent Homan Catholic .
Hirst had now grown into a tall man , with a singularly noble countenance .
It was interesting , indeed , to observe how this nobility of expression increased as thought and aspiration mingled more and more with his physical conformation .
His hair was dark , his forehead finely formed , his nose and general features well chiselled .
The only exception that could be taken to the beauty of his countenance was a certain looseness of lip , which seemed to indicate a lack of firmness of character .
But the indication was deceptive , for Hirst could be immovable when circumstances called forth the exercise of firmness .
There was , at that time , near Halifax , a tract of heath-land called Skircoat Moor , at one corner of which stood a little cottage called " The Birdcage .
" The widow who occupied this cottage eked out a livelihood by selling sweets to the children who came to the moor .
She had one son , who had begun life as an errand boy in a printer 's office , but who , by good conduct and intelligence , had risen to a highly respectable position in one of the mills .
This youth , wrhose name was Booth , attended Hirst 's symposium .
His health began to fail , and Hirst observed with anxiety the increasing pallor of his countenance as he walked to and from his work .
Medical advice was resorted to , and Booth 's malady was pronounced to be consumption .
His weakness increased , his usefulness as a clerk diminished , until at last Hirst insisted that he must cease working and direct the whole of his attention to the care of his health .
As to his salary , he ( Hirst ) undertook to make that good .
The poor youth lingered long .
Hirst had followed me to Marburg , had quitted that University , and had become a favourite pupil of the illustrious Steiner at Berlin .
The Semester had begun ; its busiest time had set in .
One morning , however , he made his appearance in London , and told me that Booth , who was obviously dying , had written , imploring his benefactor to visit him .
In response to that letter , Hirst had quitted his studies and had come over to England .
Travelling down to Halifax , he found that Booth 's chief anxiety related to his mother .
" What will become of her , " he exclaimed , " when I am gone P " The means at XVII Hirst 's command at the time were very moderate .
Through the accidents of trade , or the misconduct of individuals , the property left by his father had , in great part , disappeared .
Still , without a moment 's hesitation , he gave the dying youth the comforting assurance that his mother would be properly taken care of .
For some years afterwards , while Hirst continued in Germany , I was myself the intermediary through whom the widow 's allowance passed to her hands .
The sum paid when Hirst was articled to Mr. Carter , together with a professional education of five years , was naturally , on the part of his relatives , expected to produce some tangible result ; and when they found that he had resolved to relinquish it all for the sake of the cultivation of his intellect , they thought his resolution a wild one .
But he never wavered for a moment , and , except on occasions when his health caused me anxiety , I never wavered in the conviction that the step he had taken was a wise one .
Throughout the winter and spring in Marburg , our days were spent in labour , attending lectures , working in the ohemioal laboratory , and studying at home .
At 10 p.m. , the stroke of a piano by Hirst gave notice that the work of the day was ended .
We had music and light reading afterwards , the latter including the ' Essays of Montaigne , ' which proved to us a source of strength as well as of delight .
At 11 p.m. we went to bed .
I was earliest up , for , soon observing that hard study was telling upon the younger and less vigorous constitution , I persuaded him to give more time to repose .
After I had quitted Marburg , leaving Hirst behind me , Dr. Simpson , a medical man with a passion for chemistry , afterwards Professor of Chemistry at Queen 's College , Cork , came to the University to pursue his studies in Bunsen 's laboratory .
He brought with him his wife and family and a sister of his wife .
They were both sisters of John Martin , the pure-minded Young Irelander .
Acquaintance ripened into friendship between the young people , friendship into love , and , after Hirst had taken my place at Queenwood College in 1853 , he married ^iss Anna Martin .
A few years of unalloyed happiness were wound up by an attack of tuberculosis , which ended in her death in 1857 .
He had taken her to Biarritz , thence to Pau , whence he had returned to Paris , where she died .
I was on my way to Switzerland when intelligence of the calamity reached me .
Ignorant of their address in Paris , I sought him in his old qnarters .
Failing to find him there , and guided by a vague indication , I sought him in the Rue Marbceuf .
Here , though balked at first , I discovered where he lodged .
On turning , afterwards , the corner of a street , I met him face to face , looking as white as marble .
He was retaining from ordering his wife 's coffin .
I stood beside him in the cemetery of Pere la Chaise when she was xviii lowered into the grave , and afterwards carried him with me to the Alps .
Prior to joining me at Ohamonnix , he had three days of lonely wandering ; communing with himself under his changed conditions .
We made the little auberge at the Montanvert , which was then a very small affair , our permanent residence .
For six weeks his life was filled with healthy exercise , under conditions where constant attention was necessary to his personal safety .
Nothing could have been better calculated to divert his mind from the grief which weighed upon it .
A few days after our arrival , we were joined by Professor Huxley .
As we assembled night after night round our pine-wood fire , life became to all of us more and more a thing to be enjoyed .
We returned from the Alps , Hirst halting in Paris , where for some time he took up his abode .
Here he made the acquaintance and secured the friendship of the foremost mathematicians .
He went afterwards to Italy ; and was at the village of Solferino , helping the wounded , on the day after the battle .
In Italy he met Professor Cremona , who remained his friend in a very special sense to the end of his life .
On his return to London , Hirst became mathematical master in University College School , then Professor of Applied Mathematics in University College .
For the sake of his health , he afterwards accepted the Assistant Registrarship of the University .
His final appointment was to the Post of Director of Studies in the Royal Naval College , Greenwich , under the presidency of Admiral Sir Cooper Key , who was succeeded by Admiral Fanshawe ; Mr. Goschen was at the time of his appointment First Lord of the Admiralty .
Hirst never forgot the Minister 's high-minded sympathy with his mathematical studies , or his willingness so to arrange matters as to reconcile the prosecution of those studies with his duties as Director .
During his later years , the state of Hirst 's health frequently caused his friends the gravest anxiety .
He relinquished in succession the posts he had occupied , retiring finally from Greenwich with a Government pension .
During the present calamitous year , he was smitten with influenza , to which he finally succumbed .
I have already given an example of Hirst 's kindness of heart .
To this it may be added that , apart from his scientific labours , his life throughout was one of wise beneficence .
J. T. Eoward Killwick Calver , born 1813 , entered the Royal Navy in 1828 , in the navigating branch , on board H.M.S. " Crocodile .
" After a further term of foreign service in the " Satellite , " he in 1836 commenced his long period of service as a marine surveyor on the Home Station .
For thirty-six years , with scarcely a break , he served in this capacity mainly on the south and east coasts of Great Britain .
XIX From 1847 to 1871 lie was in charge of this survey , and produced charts of nearly the whole of the eastern coasts .
Captain Calver 's constant employment in the rivers and estuaries of the east coast gave him great experience in the action of tides , waves , and running water ; and he paid much attention to studying the principles which should underlie works for the conservation of depth and improvements of tidal harbours and entrances .
His views on this subject were remarkably sound .
They were set forth in various pamphlets , the principal work being entitled , " On the Conservation and Impi'ovement of Tidal Rivers , " published in 1858 .
In this he anticipated many of the principles which have now for long been accepted in carrying out artificial works ; and his predictions as to the results of various artificial works have nearly all been verified .
He made several valuable reports to the Admiralty on the subject of harbours of refuge .
Captain Calver retired in 1871 , and died at Yevey , in Switzerland , where he had of late resided , on 28th October , 1892 .
Captain Calver became an Associate of the Institution of Civil Engineers in 1866 , and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1873 .
W. J. L. W. *

