Radio-activity of certain Minerals , etc. 1904 ] \lt ; ;||H ' \#166 ; A Study of the Eadio-activity of certain Minerals and Mineral Waters .
" By Hon. B. J. Strutt , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Lord Eayleigii , O.M. , F.E.S. ^Received February 29 , \#151 ; Eeacl March 10 , 1904 .
Part I. A considerable number of minerals are known in varying degrees J to be radio-active .
Lists have been given by M. and Madame Curie * and by Sir W. Crookes , t Except in the case of pitchblende , little has been done to determine the nature of the radio-active J constituents ; or to decide whether any hitherto unknown radio-active li body is present .
j|| To obtain complete information on these subjects , the only method iij available would be to completely analyse the mineral , and examine every precipitate and filtrate for radio-activity .
This process is of course very tedious , and the results have to be interpreted with caie , since traces of radio-active elements may often be carried down in the groups to which they do not properly belong , and .
thus cause confusion .
A much easier method is to heat the crude mineral , and to examine the rate of decay of the emanation which it gives off .
Each emanation has a characteristic time-constant of decay , and by determining this we can identify it .
The method is of course useless for testing the presence or absence of radio-active elements such as uranium , J which do not give off a characteristic emanation .
But the great facility with which it may be applied to a small quantity of material , and the definiteness of the results , are great merits .
In any case , when a material suspected to contain radium is obtainable in abundance , it is better to test for the presence of emanation than to look for activity in the solid .
For but little of the solid material can be advantageously used in the test .
Thick layers give no larger effect than thin ones , since the upper layers absorb the radiation from the lower .
But the emanation can be extracted from any desired bulk of material , and the effect proportionately increased .
If carbonic acid , or any other gas , is evolved at the same time in inconvenient quantities , it can be absorbed with a suitable reagent , and the emanation contained in it thereby concentrated .
* 'These presentee a la Paculte des Sciences , ' Paris , p. 19 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 66 , p. 411 .
J I have found a distinct , though feeble , emanation from re-crystallised uranium nitrate , having a rate of decay equal to that of the radium emanation .
Whether this is really due to uranium , or to traces of radium , which the uranium still contains , must be left for the present an open question .
192 Hon. E. J. Strutt .
On the Radio-activity of [ Feb. 29 The present paper gives the results of an examination of certain t radio-active materials by this method .
No new emanation has been recognised .
The results have in all i cases been attributable to thorium and radium .
If any emanation decidedly more permanent than that of radium i existed in the evolved gas , the method could not fail to detect it .
For t in every case the activity of the gas was watched until it became comparable with the very small activity due to the walls of the vessel .
Tf a more durable emanation had been present even in small quantities , the proportion of it present would have increased relatively to the radium emanation , and its presence would have become apparent towards the end , by a diminished rate of decay .
Small quantities of an emanation less durable than that of radium might have escaped detection .
For they would have been masked by d the much greater quantity of the latter .
By measuring the rate of leak due to the accumulated emanation i from a weighed amount , the proportion of radium present may be s estimated .
A comparison with the leak due to the emanation of a known weight of radium must of course be made .
For this purpose it would be best to weigh out , say , a milligramme of radium bromide , dissolve it in a litre of water , and evaporate a small measured quantity of the solution in a suitable tube .
In this way the effect due to a standard quantity could be determined .
The method of experimenting was as follows :\#151 ; The powdered mineral was placed in a hard-glass combustion tube , drawn out and sealed at one end , connected to a mercury gas-holder a at the other .
Ihe mineral was heated to redness , and the gaseous ' products collected in the gas-holder .
When the evolution of gas had ceased , the point was broken off , and air drawn into the gas-holder , up to a standard volume .
h or measuring the electrical effects , an electroscope was used .
This I was exhausted , and the gas extracted from the mineral , together with the air , which had been used to make up its volume to a sufficient amount , was admitted .
After a few hours , enough for the deposited activity to attain its full value , the rate of leak was read .
The day and hour was noted , and the gas was pumped out into a test-tube and stored over mercury .
After a sufficient time had elapsed , it was again i introduced into the apparatus by means of a syphon gas pipette* and the rate of leak again measured .
In the meantime the apparatus had been available for making measurements with other gases .
In some cases the emanation was initially so strong that it could not be conveniently investigated .
In such cases a portion of the gas was diluted with air for measuring the rate of decay at first .
The # The methods of manipulation used in storing and transferring the gases without loss were those described in Dr. Travers ' book , * The Sfudy of Gases .
' jg04 ] certain Minerals and Mineral Waters .
193 concentrated material was kept until , by lapse of time , it had become weak enough to be conveniently used .
Its activity was followed until it had become too small for measurement .
With this preface the results for the various minerals tried may be \lt ; riven in the form of a table .
The rates of leak are given in scale divisions per hour .
When air alone filled the apparatus , the rate of leak was 2-25 sc .
div. per hour .
This was in each case subtracted .
Mineral .
Locality .
Quantity taken in grammes .
i Kate of leak due to emanation ( sc .
div. per hour ) .
Kate of leak per 100 grammes .
1 Time in days taken by the emanation to fall to half its initial value .
Samarskite .
Fergnsonite .
Pitchblende .
Malacone . .
Monazite ... N. Carolina , U.S.A. IVnrwav 20 7 20,600 4,280 103,000 61,000 3-48 3 -80 Cornwall .
... ... ... 40 11,900 29,800 3 -50 Hitteroe , Norway . .
Norway ... ... ... .
20 51 1,440 2,060 7,200 4,000 3-81 3-50 N Carolina .
82 37 45 3 -81 , , * * * Brazil 54 11 24 3 -80 Zircon N Carolina eo 246 41 4-05 All the minerals give radium emanation , though in very varying quantity .
These tests were not started quickly enough to give information as to the presence of a very quickly decaying emanation .
This w as tested for independently .
The mineral malacone , is of peculiar interest , because it has been found to contain argon as well as helium.* Helium is formed by the degeneration of radium , and it is reasonable to assume that the othei kindred gases have had a similar origin .
It was hoped , therefore , that malacone might contain some new radio-active element .
It is still possible that it does so , but , if so , this substance gives no emanation distinct from that of radium .
The meteorite of Augusta Co. , Virginia , has also been found to contain argon and helium .
But no emanation at all could be obtained from 20 grammes of it .
The minerals were all tested for thorium emanation by drawing aii over them in the cold ; the only one in the above list that gives it is the Norwegian monazite , and even this does not yield it very abundantly .
A crystal of thorite , however , kindly lent me by Professor Lewis , was found to give torrents of thorium emanation .
* Ramsay and Travers , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 64 , p. 131 .
194 Hon. E. J. Strutt .
On the Radio-activity of [ Feb. 29 ! .
Air drawn over it in the cold possesses strong discharging power .
It was not permissible to heat the specimen , which might have injured it 1 so that the presence or absence of radium emanation in thorite could not be investigated .
There can be no doubt that the other specimens of monazitc contained thorium , for they were given me by the late Mr. W Shapleigh , who was connected with the thorium industry , and used these varieties of monazite for preparing thoria .
They were , moreover markedly radio-active , while the amount of radium emanation obtained from them was so small that their activity could not be mainly due to radium .
They probably contain the thorium in what Rutherford and Soddy call the de-emanated condition .
That is , the thorium emanation , though formed , is not able to escape .
It is a remarkable fact that these varieties of monazite , though they contain practically no radium , yield helium in fair quantity .
There are several explanations possible .
The radium originally present may have almost completely decayed into helium , and any other products which it may yield ; or it may be that thorium , as well as radium , yields helium by its decomposition ; or , lastly , the helium may not , in this instance , have been generated by radio-active changes at all .
It is interesting to know whether the minerals retain all the radium emanation which they generate when heat is not used to expel it .
Two cases were examined .
One hundred and fourteen grammes of powdered samarskite were kept for 3 weeks in a sealed glass tube .
The air was pumped out and tested .
It was found to contain about part of the emanation , which could have been extracted by heat .
A similar experiment with malacone showed that about one-fiftieth of its emanation was able to escape in the cold .
It appears , therefore , that these minerals retain nearly all their emanation .
The same is probably true of the helium produced by the emanation .
Samarskite which had been heated to redness was found to retain its emanation in the cold about as well as before .
Part II .
I happened to possess a small sample of a red deposit , coloured by iron , which is left by the water of the King 's Spring , at Bath .
It occurred to me that it might be worth while to test this for radioactivity .
The result was to show that the deposit was markedly active .
On leaving it in the testing vessel ( which was closed airtight ) for a few days , the activity was found to increase to several times its initial value .
This shows that the deposit gives off an emanation freely , even without heat .
Experiments were then made to test the rate of decay of this certain Minerals and Mineral Waters .
1904 .
] emanation .
It proved to be identical with the rate of decay of the emanation of radium * The activity is wholly due to that element .
" This deposit was collected inside the King 's Well itself , where the hot water issues from the ground .
Other deposits are left in the tanks and pipes .
They are less active than that collected near the source .
Deposits from another of the hot springs at Bath , that known as the Old Royal Spring , have also been tested .
These were found to be active also .
In this case there was no opportunity of collecting the deposit at the well-head itself , but it was found that the deposit left in the channel near the source was more active than that in the tanks further from it .
It was interesting to determine whether the water itself contained any radium in solution .
There could be little doubt that there must be traces left in solution , after the deposit had settled out .
But , since the Bath water contains abundance of sulphates , and since radium sulphate is one of the most insoluble salts known , there could not be more than the merest traces present .
The sulphate of barium is very much less soluble than that of strontium .
And presumably the sulphate of radium is much less soluble still .
Barium sulphate requires half a million times its weight of water to dissolve it ; radium sulphate perhaps several hundred million times its own weight .
About 10 litres of the Bath water were evaporated to dryness .
The resulting saline residue was sealed up in a hard-glass tube , and left for about a fortnight to generate a stock of emanation .
On heating , a distinct emanation was obtained , giving several times the rate of leak that air did .
A deposit , similar to that from the Bath water , but black in colour , can be collected from the source of the hot springs of Buxton .
It has been analysed by Dr. J. C. Thresh , f and I am indebted to his kindness for a specimen of it .
This deposit was found to contain radium also ; the proportion present being not very different from what was found in the case of some of the Bath deposits .
The following table gives the quantitative data for these emanations from these deposits .
The rates of leak are on the same scale as those in the preceding table .
It will be seen that the richest of the deposits is some thirty-six times more active than the salt obtained by evaporating the water .
Although the agreement in the rate of decay of the emanation * In the first experiment made , I obtained a small residual leak when the radium emanation had decayed .
This was attributed to a new emanation , of greater durability .
But I have failed to repeat the experiment , and am forced to conclude that the leak was due to a failure of the quartz insulation , owing to the presence of moisture .
It is very difficult to understand how this can have happened , for the gas was passed through drying tubes .
When the rate of leak was tested with air in the apparatus , it had always a perfectly definite and constant small value .
t ' Proc. Chem. Soc. , ' January 17 , 1882 .
196 Hon. E. J. Strutt .
On Radio-activity of [ Feb. 29 1 Material .
1 Quantity taken in grammes .
Rate of leak due to emanation ( sc .
div. per hour ) .
Rate of leak due to emanation from 100 grammes .
Time in days taken 6y the emanation to fall to half its initial value . !
- King 's Spring , Bath\#151 ; Deposit from inside of well ... . .
10 250 2,500 3-60 , , tank 12 78-2 650 Saline residue from water 18 12 -4 69 Old Royal Spring , Batl\#151 ; Deposit from channel near well .
10 63 -5 635 . .
" bottom of tank . . .
15 60 400 i Hard deposit from sides of tank . .
25 43 173 3 -58 j Buxton deposit 26 356 1,370 3-81 seemed sufficient to prove that the activity was really due to radium , yet it was thought desirable to show that the chemical properties of the active constituent were in agreement with this conclusion .
Two hundred grammes of the richest deposit were treated with dilute sulphuric acid .
The activity was all in the insoluble residue , which was dirty white in colour , and amounted to about half of the entire quantity of deposit .
The residue was boiled with strong sodium \#166 ; carbonate solution .
This was washed away , and the mass extracted with hydrochloric acid .
The hydrochloric acid solution gave a slight precipitate with sulphuric acid .
This precipitate was collected , and found to be strongly active , so that there is every reason to conclude that the activity of the deposit is due to the presence of radium .
The presence of radium in the Bath water and deposits is of special interest because of the occurrence of helium in the gas which rises with the spring.* There can be little doubt that the helium owes its origin to the same store of radium that supplies the water .
It is interesting to estimate the quantity of radium annually delivered by the spring .
Part of this is in the deposit .
Part in the water .
But the annual yield of deposit does not exceed a few hundred-weight at the most .
And although it is much richer in radium than the dissolved salt , the quantity of the latter is so .enormously greater , that the deposit may be neglected .
According to the estimate of Sir A. C. Eamsay , the late Director of the Geological Survey , the salt annually delivered by the spring would be equivalent in volume to a column 9 feet in diameter , and 140 feet high .
Taking the density to be twice that of water , this would weigh about 500,000 kilogrammes .
* Kayleigli , ' Eoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 60 , p. 56 .
I0Q4 ] certain Minerals and Mineral Waters .
19^ Now the saline residue gives about ytwg part of the quantity of \#166 ; manation that samarskite gives .
Let us assume that the latter ontains one-millionth part of radium , which is , I think , an outside stimate .
At that rate , the annual delivery of radium by the spring 'mounts to about one-third gramme .
The volume of gas which the \#166 ; pring delivered is about 100 cubic feet per day.* About ToVo Part his is helium , so that about 3 litres of helium is given off daily , or about 1,000 litres per annum .
The proportion of helium to radium hus indicated is of the same order as in the radio-active minerals , hough somewdiat larger .
This is in accordance with the view that he spring draws its supplies from the disintegration of such minerals .
In obtaining the various materials from the Bath springs , I have had lie great advantage of Mr. Sydenham 's help .
His knowledge of Everything connected with the springs has been of great assistance .
In addition to the Bath and Buxton waters I have examined several others .
A sample of the Cheltenham saline water , and also a deposit left in the pipes , was kindly sent me by Mr. G. Ballinger .
But no emanation could be obtained , either from the dissolved salts or from the deposit .
The boiler crust from a domestic hot-water pipe , Terling , Essex , was examined , but the result was again negative .
* Williamson ' B.A Reports , ' 1865 , p. 3S0 .
VOL LXX1II .
P

