240 Presents .
[ Mar. 81 , V1L " Contributions to our Knowledge of the Connexion between Chemical Constitution and Physiological Action .
Preliminary Communication on the Action of certain Aromatic Bodies .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S and J. Theodore Cash , M.D. Received March 24 , 1887 * ' The distinctive action of the lower members of the fatty series is their stimulant and anaesthetic action on the nerve-centres .
The members of the aromatic series also affect the nervous system but they appear to affect the motor centres more than the sensory , so that instead of producing anaesthesia , like the members of the fatty series , they tend rather to produce tremor , convulsions , and paralysis Benzene , chlorobenzene , bromobenzene , and iodobenzene are all somewhat similar in their action on frogs ; the halogen radicals not modifying the action of the benzene to such an extent as they do in the case of ammonium salts .
The voluntary muscles are weakened by them , and there is a slight tendency to paralysis of the motor nerves ; but the action is chiefly exerted upon the brain and spinal cord .
The brain is first affected , as shown by general lethargy and disinclination to move .
Next the cord is affected ; motions are imper-fectly performed , and there is a tendency to general tremor on movement resembling that observed in disseminated sclerosis ; sometimes , however , the tremor is observed independently of movement .
The addition of hydroxyl to the benzene nucleus intensifies the convulsant action , so that oxybenzene ( carbolic acid ) and dioxy-benzene cause convulsions in frogs , and trioxybenzene causes jerkings , though of a slighter character .
The Society then adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursday , April 21st .
Presents , March 31 , 1887 .
Transactions .
Calcutta Indian Museum .
Catalogue of Siwalik Yertebrata .
Parts I\#151 ; II .
8vo .
Calcutta 1886 .
Catalogue of Pleistocene and Pre-historic Yetebrata .
8vo .
Calcutta 1886 .
The Museum .
Cambridge , Mass .
Harvard College .
Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Yol .
XIII .
No. 2 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1886 .
The Museum .
I rankfurt-am-Oder :\#151 ; Naturwissenschaftlicher Yerein .
Monatliche Mittheilungen aus dem Gresammtgebiete der Naturwissen-schaften .
Band IY .
Nr .
1-12 .
8vo .
Berlin 1887 ; Societatum Litteree .
1887 .
Nos. 1-2 .
8vo .
Berlin .
The Union .

