On the Minute Structure of Striped , \lt ; SfC .
" On the Minute Structure of Striped Muscle , with Special Reference to a New Method of Investigation , by means of 'Impressions ' stamped in Collodion .
" By John Berry Hayoraft .
M.D. , D.Sc .
, F.R S.E. Communicated by Dr. Klein , F.R.S. ( From the Physiological Laboratory , Univ. Edin .
) Received January 2 , \#151 ; Read January 8 , 1891 .
[ Plate 6 .
] Historical .
Curiously enough many of the early microscopists\#151 ; Schwann for instance\#151 ; recognised that the fibrils of a muscle are not simply threads of uniform thickness , like those of connective tissue : they were able to demonstrate their varicose character , even with the imperfect lenses at their command .
They concluded\#151 ; of course without any experimental proof\#151 ; that the cross striping of the fibrils , and , therefore , of the fibres themselves , was an optical expression of such varicosity .
But Bowman , while believing apparently that the striping was optical , and comparing the muscle fibril to a beaded rod of glass , succeeded in breaking up the fibrils into little segments .
According to his view , these " sarcous elements , " as he termed them , joined end to end by cement , constituted a muscle fibril .
He further believed that each sarcous element coincided in position with one of the alternating stripes , the other kind of stripe corresponding with the position of the cement joining the segments together .
But no sooner had histologists begun to associate the cross-striping with structural differences along the fibrils , than their varicosity was almost entirely lost sight of , and every new stripe ( and many were discovered by Dobie , Hensen , and others ) was gratuitously assumed to mark the position of some new structure .
There was , however , much to excuse what might at first sight appear to have been a great want of critical acumen , for the application of staining reagents appeared to bring out alternating differences ( \gt ; f structure along the fibre .
Thus , with logwood or picrocarmine or cosine , the clear stripe ( isotropic bands ) , the dark stripe ( Querscheibe ; disque epais ) , the band of Hensen ( Mittelscheibe ; disque median ) , and Dobie 's line ( Querwand ; strie mince ) , all appear to take on the stain in different degrees , so much so that , in specimens successfully prepared , some stripes appear deeply stained , others hardly at all .
^"^en\#187 ; again , BrUcke and other investigators demonstrated that the bis consist of alternating parts , some of which appear to be doubly , and others singly , refracting .
Overwhelmed by what appeared to be such a mass of evidence , the Dr. J. B. Hay craft .
histologist of ten or twenty years ago felt hound to assume that th fibril was a very complicated structure , and he never doubted that muscular fibril consists of a series of alternating and recurring tures .
It then became his duty to find out what these structures real might be , and what part they play during a muscular contraction The lines of Dobie are often seen as narrow dark bands , which were believed to be membranes ( Querwand ) , and it was held that these membranes separated up the fibrils into little boxes ( Mnskel kastchen ) , so that a fibril consists , according to these authorities , of a series of little boxes , joined end to end , containing the substances whose position was marked by the other stripes .
Certain of these stripes ( the dim ones } were ( considered to mark the position of solid or relatively more solid substances , and the other stripes ( the clear ones ) to consist of fluid or relatively less solid substances .
The appearance of the stripes , the staining , and their action on polarised light gave , at any rate , some colour to this hypothesis , for the dim stripes appear to have more substance than the dear stripes ; they appear to stain with reagents , and to doubly refract light , which latter property is certainly seen in some solids .
The light stripes , on the other hand , appear deficient in substance and solidity , they stain less readily , and they simply refract light { a property common to all liquids , and some solids ) .
The Mnskel kastchen hypothesis seemed , therefore , feasible enough , and having under their microscopes little boxes containing more solid and less solid parts in alternating layers , Krause , Merkel , Engelmann , and others , sought to explain , each in his own way , the most obvious phenomenon of 'contractility , namely , the shortening and thickening of the contractile tissue , as being due to the interaction of these structures .
Histologists are accustomed to observe osmotic changes , the swelling up and the shrinking of -red blood-corpnseles , for instance , and to see the resulting alterations of form .
Under these circumstances it was not unnatural for them to suppose that during contraction the more solid parts of the Muskelkastchen imbibed fluid from the less solid parts , in such a way as to alter the shape of the muscle box , making it shorter and thicker , and causing , in consequence , the whole fibre to change in the same way .
In apparent support of this theory , the stripes in the muscle boxes change their relative thickness , and alter in appearance , in the manner so carefully described by these observers .
There seems , in fact , only one objection to this osmotic theory which would at once present itself to the eye of the critical observer ; it is the time taken by the process , for osmotic ^changes are slow in their very nature , and the muscles of an insect 's wing can contract over a hundred times a second .
On the Minute Structure of Striped Muscle , cfc .
Personal Observations before the Year 1880 .
More than ten years ago it was my duty , as a young teacher , to make myself familiar with the current literature bearing upon the structure and function of muscular tissue .
Even then the number of publications was very great , and I can now recall the despair with which I tried to get a grasp of a subject about which no two observers could be found to agree .
While endeavouring to verify some of the statements I had read , I found out for myself that the fibrils are in reality varicose threads of tissue , presenting alternate swellings and constrictions of their substance .
At once the conviction forced itself upon my mind that the striping might after all be an optical expression of the form of the fibrils , and have nothing whatever to do with their internal structure ; ; and it was no*t until my results were in manuscript form , and ready for publication , that I got access to the older and almost forgotten literature in which IE found the same views freely expressed , although without any attempt at their proof .
When I had made'certain that , both in the fresh and in the prepared muscle , the fibrils are invariably varicose , then I felt that the position of the subject was as follows .
Such fibrils are bound to be cross-striped like all other objects of similar shape , viewed by transmitted light .
It may beidiat the cross-striping observed is due do the varicosity alone , or do the varicosity and do co-existing structural differences as well .
; and , under these circumstances , before we are in a position to take any further step in an investigation into the nature of the muscular fibre , it is imperative to eliminate the appearances .
due alone to varicosity .
My first endeavour was to ascertain whether ttbere are any stripes !
^lat do not correspond in their position with inequalities indhe thick-j ness of the muscular fibrils .
Of course in many cases it is difficult , especially if the fibrils or j fibres are somewhat distorted , to make out the border clearly ; but in \#166 ; good specimens , in a suitable position for study , I found that the .
striping , both in the contracted and uncontracted fibre , corresponds i invariably to either thickenings or constrictions of the fibrillar sub- , j stance , and in this investigation the muscular tissue of many repre-I sentative species , both Vertebrates and Invertebrates , was examined .
The broad dim stripe occupies the position of a thick bulging part of j the fibre , and Hensen 's stripe , when present , corresponds to the posi-I ^0n 'I a shallow depression in its centre .
The clear stripe lies in the constrictions of the fibril and Dobie 's line corresponds with a tiny swelling in its centre .
:1 In addition , the stripes can be reversed by altering the focus , just as ig the case with a little varicose glass thread , the scale of a oi the shadow in the centre of a red blood-corpuscle ; indeed Bowman Dr. J. B. Hayeraft .
Fro .
l. Bowman 's elements .
Querscheibe , Mittelsclieibe .
Hensen 's line .
Querwand .
Dobie 's line .
Isotropic !
clear stripe .
Part of a muscular fibril is represented in this figure , and it will be noticed that the striping of the fibril corresponds with the position of inequalities in its thickness .
actually described the striping in the reverse focus to that generally adopted , calling " clear " what we speak of as the " dim " band .
A very simple method of determining exactly what part varicosity plays in .
the production of the cross-striping then suggested itself to my mind ; it was to immerse the fibrils in a fluid having the same refractive index .
Under these circumstances it is obvious that these stripes , which are due to varicosity alone , will disappear , but the striping will become even more marked if there are alternating structures along the fibre possessed of different refractive indices .
At Professor P. G. Tait 's suggestion , I placed the fibres in a mixture of alcohol and oil of cassia , varying the proportions until 1 approximated to the refractive index of the fibrils .
The striping never entirely disappeared , but it grew fainter and fainter , and I am inclined to explain the partial failure of this experiment on the grounds that , unlike a glass rod , the muscle fibres imbibed the medium in which they were embedded .
As a result of this slow imbibition , the refractive index of the fibres would be constantly altering , and it would be a matter of the greatest difficulty to make it exactly the same as that of the surrounding medium .
In addition to this , coagulation would be almost certain to take place within the fibrils , destroying their optical uniformity .
While looking upon the results I had obtained as valuable but not conclusive evidence , I sought to solve the problem in another way .
I took the living muscle of a Crab or Fly , and , while examining it under the microscope , I pressed down the cover-glass with a On the Minute Structure of Striped Muscle , \lt ; $-c .
291 ' I needle .
Under these circumstances , those fibres which were pressed upon lost their cross-stripes , and looked extremely like connective j tissue .
Of course it might be urged that the fibres were by this I pressure entirely disorganised , and no conclusions can legitimately be drawn from the experiment , but to this it can be replied that if there really are little bands of tissue so clearly distinguishable from each other , as those who hold the Mushelkdstchen hypothesis believe , these or their traces should be found scattered about throughout the preparation .
In point of fact , as you press upon the cover-glass the stripings gradually disappear with increased pressure , and in the ill-defined fibrillated structure that remains there are no traces of the broken Muskelkastchen .
And finally , if more proof is wanted , it is possible by means of a screw , which raises or lowers the cover-glass , first to press upon the fibres and cause the striping to disappear , and then on raising the cover-glass to cause them to reappear once more .
We can only explain this result on the assumption that the varicose fibrils are flattened out , and that the striping caused by their Varicosity disappears in consequence .
There were , however , three important facts which had to be thoroughly accounted for , before it could be affirmed that the fibrils do not consist of the alternating structures supposed to exist ; these facts were the effect of cleavage , of staining and the action of polarised light .
The muscle fibrils can be broken across into the sarcous elements described by Bowman ; but a careful study of the question soon convinced me that the cleavage is always across the thinnest parts of the fibrils , taking place in the substance of the clear stripe .
If Dobie 's line is at all marked , the cleavage takes place near the little swelling which corresponds to it , and through the substance of the clear stripe .
Reference to fig. 1 will at once show that here " e have to deal with the thinnest part of the fibrils , and it is therefore begging the question to assume anything over and above this mechanical reason for the cleavage , for every varicose rod will break across at its thinnest part .
The phenomenon of transverse cleavage cannot therefore be taken in itself as an argument in favour of structural differences along the fibrils .
The appearances seen in stained preparations can also , I pointed out , be satisfactorily explained on the varicosity hypothesis .
We n that whatever else is employed , and at whatever focus you adopt Q your examination , those stripes which in the unstained preparations dppear dim also appear to take on the stain , while those stripes which Appear clear and bright are unaffected by it .
In fact , the difference 1UflC'^OUr *8 etv^rety a question of " saturation , " for whenever there is I f 0oa 'f light , as in a clear stripe , the colour of the fibre at that part i ooom.es unsaturated by it .
It is easy to convince oneself practically \#166 ; 0 is faeu by the examination of varicose threads of faintly coloured Dr. J. B. Haycraft .
glass in a ray of parallel light .
Rods of faintly tinted glass of th same shape as the muscle fibres , having tiny globules\#151 ; Dobie 's lines and broader swellings for the dim stripes , when examined under th microscope , or in the field of a lantern , give as strong colour differentia tions as any muscle fibres , the constrictions coming out quite colour less , while the dim band and Dobie 's line are sharply brought out by their deepened colour.* One of the chief faults of which I was guilty when publishing these results in 1880 was that I did not sufficiently lay stress on the appearances presented by a coloured or colourless varicose thread of glass when placed in the path of a parallel ray of light .
It is quite different from the same thread when examined in diffuse daylight for in the latter case a hundred images fall upon the retina at the same time , and the striping and colour differentiations are confused .
One can see little appearance of striping , and if the glass is coloured it may appear very much of the same tint ; place it in a lantern , or even lay it down on a piece of white paper , and the picture is quite different .
As one is accustomed to view objects in diffuse daylight , one is not prepared to interpret correctly the character of such an object when viewed through a microscope : the clear well-defined hands and colour differentiations of a muscle fibril are not the appearances of a varicose thread as seen in diffuse- daylight , but they are those of a similar fibre observed in parallel light when practically a single image falls upon the retina. .
Lastly , we come to the action of polarised light , and here at once the phenomena by no means prove ' structural differentiation along the fibre .
There are many questions which lead to complication .
We have the varicosity of the fibril , which will alter the path of the polarised beam and produce apparent differences along the fibre when there may be in reality none at all .
Then we have as a complication the interfibrillar substance , which is simply refracting , and which is chiefly lodged in the neighbourhood of the clear stripe .
I was not prepared to say , under these circumstances , what is the action of polarised light on the fibrils , nor do I wish to commit myself now : it is sufficient to say that , even if we grant that alternating singly iso-tropous and doubly refracting anisotropic bands exist along a fibril , it does not follow that these are bands of more solid and less solid material : the whole difference may be due to molecular tension .
A fibre of such a shape , as was pointed out to me both by Professor btokes and by Professor P. G. Tait , is almost bound to possess altern-ating parts in different conditions of molecular tension , and give the familiar appearances when examined by polarised light .
In doing this experiment , only faintly tinted glass must be used , and , as this is difficult to obtain , I generally use hollow varicose tubes of white glass filled with coloured fluid .
On the Minute Structure of Striped , fyc .
293 A paper containing the above results was presented to the Royal jj Society of London by my kind friend Professor E. Klein , and was ( printed in the 'Proceedings ' of 1880 , and in the ' Quarterly Journal ( of Microscopical Science , ' 1881 , and in this paper I ventured to ( assert that I had been able to explain the appearances generally ( considered to indicate structural differences in the course of the fibrils as being due to the varicosity of the fibrils themselves .
I | farther stated that of course structural differences might-exist , but that the proof of their existence was not as yet forthcoming .
My views were received in many quarters with kind consideration , .
but they were only very partially accepted .
For my own part , as soon as I had published them I resolved not to think about the subject again for some years , when , with more matured experience , I might return to its consideration and picking up the threads that I had dropped unravel them with a more skilful hand .
Recent Investigations with the Collodion Impressions .
Last winter ( 1889-90 ) an idea occurred to me which led once more to my examination of the subject .
It struck me that if I could " stamp " some soft transparent solid with muscle fibres it might be possible to obtain impressions of the fibres on the soft material .
If these impressions had smooth unstriped depressions corresponding to the fibres , this would indicate that the striping was caused by structural differences within the fibrils ; if , however , the impressions were striated , this could only be explained on the ground that the striation o the " stamp " \#151 ; the muscle\#151 ; was caused by the form of the fibrils , w ich form and which striation were transferred to the soft material in the process of stamping .
It seemed improbable that I should succeed in getting faithful impressions of such microscopic objects , yet I felt that it would be well wort while making the attempt , for the results if obtained would be th^lr I experimented with every substance that I could m of , using wax of various kinds , glass , gelatins , glycerin jelly , J'augparent soaps , \amp ; c. Once or twice I thought that I had obtained Partial success , but my difficulties were great , for when-ge^r .
^1^ upon a substance like gelatin , for instance , which would the ln ^lln^e Contact with the fibrils , it invariably came away with ^ ^ W 6n w\#174 ; re removed .
I worked at the subject for months , 1890^6Ver^ exPedient which suggested itself to me , and in July , It* ^ sllccee\lt ; ^e\lt ; I beyond my most sanguine anticipations , thin ~ !
cc1 ; irie\lt ; I to me that perhaps collodion might be of service , for a ^er quickly and forms a beautifully smooth transparent accordingly prepared a film by allowing a drop of collodion upon a slide , and tilting the slide so that it flowed over it in 294 Dr. J. B. Haycraft .
a layer of uniform thickness .
When still somewhat moist I pressed against the film some roughly teased muscle fibres held on my finger tip .
They came away quite readily when the finger was removed leaving little " ruts " in the collodion obvious to the unaided eye .
On examining these ruts with the microscope I found what I at first thought were actual muscular fibres still adhering to the collodion film , showing the fibrils and every detail of the cross striping with remarkable clearness .
The ruts contained , however , no trace o{ muscular tissue when examined by the naked eye , for the slightest trace of muscle is at once recognised by its opacity .
On looking at the specimen a few minutes afterwards , what was my surprise to find that all the appearances I had just seen had completely vanished , the ruts had disappeared , and the collodion film was flat and smooth .
The explanation was very soon found , and n doubt remained that what I had at first actually mistaken for muscular fibres were in reality their " impressions , " their subsequent disappearance being due to the contraction of the film , as it dried , pulling out every inequality in its surface .
It is very instructive to watch one of these collodion impressions ; at first clearly cut , with every stripe sharply defined , they gradually fade , and perhaps in five or ten minutes they disappear entirely .
Sometimes a portion of a fibre really remains sticking to the collodion ; it is at once recognised by its great opacity .
What astonished me almost as much as the perfect reproduction in the impression of every cross stripe was the ease with which these impressions can he made .
One can hardly fail to obtain them , and at the International Congress in Berlin , while demonstrating the subject to the members of the Physiological and Anatomical Sections , I made over one hundred preparations\#151 ; few of which were failures .
Hot only can one stamp with hardened muscle , but the fresh tissue can itself be used .
Of course the fresh tissue is soft and does not make so good a stamp , the results are not so striking , but they are quite evident .
In making impressions of a fresh muscle one can take a piece of muscle , say from a Rabbit , cut it through in the direction of the fibres , and press the cut edge for a second or so against the collodion film , which must be very soft : one rarely examines the film without getting some trace of an impression upon it.* If the impressions are examined with a high power , say 600 diameters , hhe following details can be made out .
Bach fibril , if a hardened * One can get impj-essions of other tissues , bone , tooth , hair , \amp ; c. A section of dry bene comes out very well , and one can see in the impression the " set " of the lamellae , the lacunae and their canaliculae , and every detail with marvellous cles1'-ness .
If a still moist film be pressed against the back of the hand , and then \#171 ; *\#166 ; amxned , one sees the impressions of the imbricated scales covering the hairs on the hack of the hand far clearer than in the original .
On the Minute Structure of Striped Muscle , fyc .
295 i preparation be used for stamping , makes its own individual impres-j sjon in the collodion , which rises between the fibrils in the place of the interfibrillar substance , which has , of course , been removed in the ordinary preparation of the tissue .
When the muscle is pulled away \ the impressions of the individual fibres can readily be made out , and 1 the borders of the little varicose hollows are plainly to be seen ; the , eross-striping , which can here only be due to the form of the impres-| sion , is exactly the same as that of the muscle itself .
To put it in | another way , we have varicose threads of air , within surrounding I collodion in the place of varicose threads of muscle surrounded by balsam or Farrant , and varicosity , the only common factor in the two cases , is alone the cause of the striping observed in each .
Not only are the broad stripes well marked , but one can see with even greater ease than in the muscle itself the lines of Dobie and of Hensen* In the fresh muscle I have only once or twice seen the outlines of the fibrils with any degree of distinctness , but the stripings are more readily seen ; yet one would hardly expect to get such good resalts from fresh muscle , both on account of its softness and from the fact that the fibrils are covered by sarcolemma .
If the collodion be tinted , say with magenta or Bismarck-brown , impressions can be made in this coloured medium , and these show in beautiful detail the apparent stain differentiations observed in muscle .
The broad dim stripe comes out red and appears like a solid , well-defined band , and the clear stripe in successful preparations appears by contrast devoid of colour .
It will be seen from the above experiments that , as the stripings are all optical effects of varicosity , the very foundations of the Muskelkastchen hypothesis are removed , and we now come to the consideration of the phenomena of contraction .
An " impression99 of a muscular fibre shows in every detail the appear-ounces characteristic of the muscle used to stamp it , in whatever state of wntraetion or relaxation it may happen to be.\#151 ; If a piece of muscular tissue , hardened in alcohol in the extended position , be examined nnder the microscope and its details studied , and if an impression of d be then made , the impression will show the same details that it shows .
The same holds good for the contracted or semi-contracted fibre .
Photograph I was very kindly taken for me by my friend Dr* Carrington Purvis , and shows the appearances presented by a Crab s musele in a state of extension .
The little varicose fibrils are seen separated by little varicose dark lines , the latter being the optical sections of the interfibrillar substance .
holograph II* is taken from an u impression ** of a muscle in a ^ *he photographs of the u impressions " were taken by my friend Dr. Eding-whose skill and interest I am much indebted .
As the " impressions only out five or six minutes , and as with ordinary illumination an exposure of ^ XLIX .
X 296 Dr. J. B. Haycraft .
similar condition , and it will be noticed that the appearance is essentially the same , except that the stripes are reversed , the littiP dots forming Dobie 's line and the dim bands coming out bright , and the clear stripe appearing dark ; the slightest alteration of the focus would have reversed the photograph and have given the ordinary appearance .
A contracted fibre has quite another appearance , for not only are the cross-stripings much nearer together , but they have changed in character .
Without going into detail , at present , it is sufficient to say that alternately dark and light stripes are seen , and that the Dobie 's line , so constant a feature in the extended fibre , is no longer to be seen in the contracted condition ; the stripes , moreover have altered in thickness relatively to one another .
Now it is needless to again point out that the change in the striping has hitherto been held to indicate changes within the fibrils of the nature of osmosis , the stripes being taken to represent actual structures .
But if an impression be taken of a muscle killed in contraction it shows every detail of a muscle in that condition , as photograph III , taken from a collodion impression , very well indicates .
( In this photograph the clear stripes come out clear , and the dark stripes dark , just as in the original muscle , but of course the appearance could be reversed by altering the focussing .
) It follows that when a muscle passes into a condition of contraction the changed appearance is entirely due to a change in its form , and I have frequently stamped muscles which show in the same fibre both the contracted and uncontracted state with the intermediate stages .
These intermediate changes come out perfectly in the " impressions , " so that one can positively affirm that the striping is due to form , and every change in striping observed during contraction depends upon some change of form too .
Of course the imbibition theories of Krause , Merkel , and Engelmann are no lofiger tenable , since the facts on which their theories were founded have received another explana j tion .
The Muskelkastchen was evolved on the supposition that the ; cross stripes correspond to membranes and layers of tissue along the j fibres , whereas the impressions prove that they are due to variations j in the thickness of the fibrils in different parts of their course .
The imbibition theories were evolved on the supposition that the changes in the striping observed during contraction are due to alterations in from ten to fifteen minutes is required , our first attempts were not as successful \#187 ; .
' might have been desired , and those exhibited in [ Berlin were decidedly faint and wanting in density .
Dr. Edington subsequently , adopting a suggestion of Mr-Eorgan , used magnesium light in the place of the ordinary oil lamp , burning about i one foot of the thin riband in the optical axis of the apparatus .
This exposure , i. lasting only a few seconds , gave us very beautiful negatives , from which the photo- s gravure plate was taken .
On the Minute Structure of Striped , 8fc .
297 the relative quantities of fluid held by the substances producing the striping .
Inasmuch , however , as the changes in the striping are due to changes in form of the fibrils , the very foundation of these theories has been removed .
The Author 's Views as to the Structure of Striped Muscle .
Before proceeding further I would venture to state what I think we are in a position to affirm respecting the structure of striped muscle .
The fibres consist of fibrils generally grouped together in bundles and separated from each other by interfibrillar matter .
As the fibrils are varicose , and have a different refractive index from the interfibrillar matter in which they lie , they , in consequence , present the optical striping possessed by all such bodies under similar circumstances , and we ' have no reason to suppose that this striping has any other interpretation .
The fibrils , from whatever point we look upon them , are composite structures , and their varicosity indicates this quite clearly .
Each fibril has practically undergone segmentation into a series of tiny particles , although there is no evidence that these are separated from one another by membranes , or any other anatomical structures , and each little bit contracts on its own account so as to thicken and shorten .
Although we know absolutely nothing as to what there is within each fibril , yet the condition of parts , whatever it may be , is probably the same in every Dobie 's line , or in every dim or light stripe .
Each light stripe may merely consist of contractile tissue in a different state of tension from that in the position of the dim stripes , and if so , that may partly interpret the polariscopic phenomena , but beyond the fact that a difference exists we are not u a position to make a further affirmation .
When we study the change in form which these little segments undergo in passing from the relaxed into the contracted condition we come upon several carious facts , the interpretation of which is at present very difficult .
0Iae muscles , and especially those of some of the lower Vertebrates Ppear to be very simple in form , and to undergo very simple changes armg contraction .
I hope to enter into greater detail in a subse-^aent paper , but in the meanwhile I would simply state that the jj ^ , s seem to be devoid of the tiny swellings which form the line of . .
le ' ^le fibrils , therefore , possess simply alternate swellings ( dim npes ) and constrictions ( clear stripes ) .
During contraction , the r f lriSs become more marked as the fibrils shorten , the change ^8 represented in fig. 2 .
sa ^ case dark stripes of the contracted fibre are at just the ^ of the fibril as .
in the relaxed condition .
In other reveC ^ ^ most of the , Arthropoda , for instance , the stripes are Se ' as already so well described by the German histologists .
x 2 Dr. J. B. Haycraft .
Fig 2 .
Fig. 3 .
JR C Fig. 2 ( R ) represents a relaxed fibril with a pin , sticking into the dark stripe .
During its contraction ( C ) , as the fibril simply shortens and thickens without otherwise changing its shape , the needle A is still seen sticking in the dark stripe .
Fia .
3 ( JR ) represents a relaxed fibril with a pin , A , sticking into the dark stripe , and another pin , JBy sticking into the swelling in the position of Dobie 's line .
When contracting ( C ) , the fibril is profoundly modified in shape , the pin A sticking into the clear stripe , and the pin JB into the centre of the dark stripe .
The reason is that , during contraction , the fibrils change their shape in such a manner that the parts which previously bulged now become the thinnest part ( fig. 3 ) .
As the fibrils begin to contract the substance of the clear stripe becomes an eminence instead of a depression , and the little bulging part forming Dobie 's lines becomes smoothed out and gradually obliterated .
The dark stripe , on the other hand , becomes the constriction in the case of the contracted fibre , and , of course , appears now as a clear band .
These points can only clearly be made out by studying all the intermediate conditions between complete contraction and relaxation , and they are best seen in the living muscle fibres on which waves of contraction are still slowly passing ; one may see them , too , upon the muscle impressions .
I have never happened to make an impression of a fibre showing a series of these intermediate stages in a short piece of a fibre while engaged with Dr. Edington in photographing them , but fig. 4 shows very well the appearance ; it is a carets drawing of a Crab 's muscle in a state of contraction , but bent at an angle so that the convex side is artificially extended .
The Pobio s lines on the extended side are seen gradually to thin away* and gradually disappear on the contracted side , while the surrounding bands which appear as clear depressions gradually become dim elevations .
Of course , this change of form leads to the shortening of the but it is at present difficult to say why this reversal of the varicos1/ should occur ; at present , we have to accept it as an unexplained On the Minute Structure of Striped Muscle , fyc .
Fia .
4 .
A drawing of a living and contracted Crab 's muscle , which , has been bent round and artificially extended on its convex lower border .
The transitions between the relaxed and contracted parts are well seen .
Dobie 's lines ( [ D ) gradually fade away as you pass to the contracted condition , becoming invested by and then replaced by the dark stripe of the contracted condition .
The dark stripe of the relaxed part ( _B ) fades away , and is replaced by the light stripe in the contracted part .
Many of the German histologists have described a condition observable before the muscle has completely contracted ( TTebergangsstadium ) , infcwhich all striping has disappeared , and this Merkel and Engelmann each explains on his own imbibition theory .
Now , one can dogmatically affirm that in the greater number of fibres of which the tissue is in one part contracted and another part relaxed , and in which the intermediate stages are plainly visible , as in fig. 4 , for instance , not a trace of such a condition is visible ; it is therefore not an essentially intermediate phase .
I have had the privilege of seeing ftofessor Engelmann 's preparations , and here it is seen , and in my 'wn I occasionally come across it ; but what I have invariably observed is this , that it is never seen in a fresh preparation free and unattached to cover-glass or slide .
It frequently happens that fibres become pressed and otherwise fixed , and then it appears that when I they shorten , the contracted part pulls upon the still extended portion , and diminishes by so doing the varicosity of the fibrils , and , m consequence , the striping which depends upon it .
The effect is exactly the same as that produced by flattening out the fibres by Pressing on the cover-glass ; in one case the varicosity is diminished or obliterated by a pull in the length of the fibril , in the other case y pressure applied to its sides .
One may , at any rate , state that in o vast majority of cases , as the varicosity becomes reversed , the , tils never become uniform threads of tissue , for , as the dim stripe j , 8 flattening out , eventually to form a depression , the clear stripe , i ^ Dobie 's line still visible in its centre , is becoming a ridge .
Dr. J. B. Hay craft .
The Interfibrillar Substance .
The interfibrillar substance is not usually held to have the property of contractility , and it appears to me that the arguments based on its fancied homology to a cell network recently brought forward , espe-cially in England , can hardly be said to prove the contrary ; I hope to refer to this subject in a subsequent paper , to be devoted to the comparative histology of muscle .
From the varicose character of the fibrils , it follows that the interfibrillar substance is of the nature of a matrix or bed of tissue perforated by varicose tubes .
It is like a honeycomb minus its transverse partitions , or , better still , like a mitrailleuse ; we have , however , to imagine the walls of the honeycomb of variable thickness , sometimes thicker and sometimes thinner , and the analogy is complete .
In optical section , as when we focus a piece of muscle , this interfibrillar honeycomb will appear as in photograph I or fig. 5 .
Fie .
5 .
A \amp ; Two fibres are represented , A and B. The interfibrillar substance is strongly represented by the varicose lines ; the outlines of the fibrils are faintly represented at the borders of the figures .
In A the fibrils possess well-marked Dobie s lines ; the swellings of the fibrils causing them are seen , In consequence , the cement matter forming single masses in B is in divided into two sets ( heads of Schafer 's muscle rods ) .
In B Dobie 's lines are not seen .
In diagram the cross-striping ' !
of the fibrils has been omitted for the sake of simplicity .
Here the fibrils are left blank , and the interfibrillar substance is i represented by dark varicose lines , the optical sections of the longi- j tudinal walls of the honeycomb .
The walls are thick opposite the | position of the constrictions of the fibrils which lie within the honeycomb , and thin whereSthe bulgings come .
When a Dobie 's bulge is i present as at A , the bulgings , corresponding to the clear stripe , ari ' !
divided into two ( Schafer 's muscle rods ) ; but when Dobie 's line is i not well marked , we have the appearance seen at B. Of course , it i will be understood that where these thickenings of the honeycomb On the Minute Structure of Striped , Sfc .
301 occur the fibres are encircled by a thicker band of interfibrillar substance , that the little beads or swellings in the diagrams are merely optical sections of the thicker parts of the honeycomb .
These thickened portions , when very strongly differentiated from the fibrils , as by the gold method , may appear like transverse bars running across the fibrils in the region of the clear stripe , and the whole structure has unfortunately been misinterpreted by some observers into a network , the transverse links of which are the encircling and thickened parts of the honeycomb , while the longitudinal threads are the lines really marking the optical section of the honeycomb tubes .
If any threads of tissue are to be actually seen , I quite agree with Professor Klein in ascribing them to precipitation within the interfibrillar honeycomb .
The Physiological Explanation of the Varicosity .
I may not unreasonably be asked to supply some hypothesis of my own in place of the exploded theories of imbibition , for , if we simply view a muscle fibre as consisting of varicose fibrils , we have a bare morphological fact without any physiological significance .
Before doing this , I will venture to clear up one misunderstanding which has arisen concerning the morphological difference between striped and unstriped muscular tissue , although this question will , I hope , be more fully discussed in a subsequent paper .
The unstriated muscle is generally described as a nucleated spindle , presenting fine longitudinal fibrillation , and devoid of a true sar-colemma , while the striped or voluntary fibre is described as a fibrillated thread of contractile tissue , invested by a sarcolemma underneath which numerous nuclei are placed .
The heart muscle is generally looked upon as a tissue intermediate between the two .
Bat authors to whom we owe these ideas , have restricted their enquiries to the Vertebrate histology alone .
It is necessary to pass into the region of comparative histology , before we can thoroughly comprehend the subject .
If we do this , we shall find that there are two chief varieties of fully differentiated muscular tissue .
First of \#174 ; 11 , there is the nucleated spindle devoid of sarcolemma and made up 'L Abrils cemented together , and we notice that these spindles may he striped or unstriped , the difference depending upon the rapidity of their contraction .
They are found in most divisions of the animal kingdom ; us\gt ; in the adductor muscles of Gardium , Pecten , Lima , rapidly Moving Lamellibranchs , we have nucleated and striped spindles ; ^686 occur in the heart muscle of the Frog and many other animals , T. p011-striped spindles'are found in parts of the circulating and lgmftive systems where less active movements are required .
eu again , there is another type of muscular tissue , consisting of 302 Dr. J. B. Haycraft .
cylindrical threads , sometimes invested by a sarcolemma , and with nuclei within the fibrils , under the sarcolemma or in both of these situations , and we notice that these threads of tissue are striped or unstriped according to the rapidity of their contraction .
In Vertebrate skeletal muscle , they contract quickly and are striped , and the same applies to the adductor of the Terebrawhich closes its shell so quickly as sometimes to nip its protruding siphon .
In many of the Polychaetse , in many Lamellibranchs , as in Mytilus , and in slowly moving Ascidia , the fibres are devoid of striation .
We see then that the striping of muscular tissue cannot be said in any way to associate itself with any particular " build " of cell ; it may be present in both a spindle and in a cylindrical thread .
When a muscular fibre , it may be spindle-shaped or cylindrical in shape , is called upon in the process of evolution to contract very quickly , then it becomes striped , the cause of which is the segmentation of the previously cylindrical fibrils into varicose threads .
The Swallow in its rapid flight has quickly to see , and catch the passing fly , and the fibrils of its ciliary muscle , simple threads of uniform thickness in some ancestral form , now become beaded and cross-striped .
Striated muscle may , therefore , be defined as " muscular tissues , the ultimate fibrils of which have become varicose , and this in association with the power of quicker and more active movement .
" We can now ask ourselves whether it is not possible to explain this correlation between the segmentation of a muscle and its power of contracting more rapidly , and it will , I think , be seen that a very simple and straightforward explanation can at once be given .
The whole subject can be resolved into a question of " mass the larger the contractile element is , the longer time will it take to reach its maximal degree of shortening , so that when a fibril segments into a number of much smaller particles , each one contracting and relaxing on its own account , a considerable amount of time will thereby be gained .
We have many examples of the influence of bulk , or mass , upon rapidity of contraction in the case of the gross i muscles themselves , the larger animals moving ' relatively slower than the smaller ones , as when the Hare , in spite of its smaller leaps , can nearly keep pace with the Horse , because its leaps are repeated at much shorter intervals .
We can now see how , by simple means , a muscle can , during its evolution , contract more quickly , but the fundamental explanation of the phenomena of contraction is still to be found .
Whether or not we may evei ' be able to express muscular contraction in terms ot those phenomena which we see in the inorganic world I am not in a position to say , but this we must all he certain of , that this explanation will result rather from a study of the contraction phenomena of the lower and simpler types of con* On the Minute Structure of Striped Muscle , fyc .
303tractile tissue than from the highly evolved tissue of the striped muscle.* EXPLANATION OF PHOTOGRAPHS .
( Piate 6 .
) Photograph I. Photograph of the muscle of a Crab in a state of relaxation , and magnified 1000 diameters .
Dobie 's lines are seen as narrow dark bands running across the fibres , and corresponding to tiny bulgings of the individual fibrils ; seen best at the upper edge of the fibre .
The clear stripes on either side of Dobie 's lines correspond with constrictions in the fibrils , and the dark stripes correspond with broad swellings .
The cement substance between the fibrils appears light in colour .
Photograph II .
Photograph ( 700 amplifications ) of a moist film of collodion , upon which a piece of relaxed Crab 's muscle had been pressed and had then been withdrawn .
In this " intaglio " all the appearances of the relaxed Crab 's muscle are to be seenr those parts which are dark in Photograph I coming out white in the intaglio. .
The cement matter and the clear stripes are dark , and the dark stripes and Dobie 's lines come out light in colour .
Photograph III .
Photograph of a moist film of collodion , upon which a piece of contracted Crab 's muscle had been pressed and had then been withdrawn .
The striping is that of the contracted fibre in all its , detail ; the approximation of the cross-stripes to each other and the absence of Dobie 's line are points especially to be noted .
Owing to the collodion film varying in its thickness , the intaglio is photographed at different focal planes , and the dark stripe , which appears light in the lower part of the photograph , comes out dark in colour at the upper , part-The edge of the intaglio is better seen than in Photograph II , and by the aid of a lens one can readily see in the original negative the interfibrillar matter .
I am much indebted to the Cambridge Engraving Company for I the excellent manner in which the photographs just described have I keen reproduced .
11 Professor P. G. Tait has recently suggested to me , that , owing to their i'-Jlb08^ the ^krils will be able , as it were , to get a better " grip " of the inter-KT\amp ; uUar matter , so that during contraction or relaxation the muscle will be able more-Actually to move as a whole .
( Prcc .
I^oy .
800 .
4,5^

