On the Nerve-fibres which produce Contraction of the Spleen .
287 February 27 , 1896 .
Sir JOSEPH LISTER , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read I. **On the Spinal-root Connections and Ganglion-cell Connections of the Nerve-fibres which produce Contraction of the Spleen .
" By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. , and B. Moore .
Received February 12 , 1896 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of University College , London .
) We have investigated , in four dogs , the effects npon the spleen volume of excitation of the thoracic and lumbar nerve-roots .
In all four cases the animals were fully anaesthetised , at first with chloroform and afterwards with morphia , and were curarised , artificial respiration being maintained in the usual way .
The spinal cord was then exposed in the dorso-lumbar region , and the nerve-roots on both sides tied and cut close to the dura matter , the latter with the enclosed portion of cord being then entirely removed .
The blood pressure in the aorta was recorded by a tube tied into the carotid artery and connected with a mercurial manometer , and the spleen volume was simultaneously inscribed by a tambour connected with the spleen plethysmograph ( see preceding paper , p. 229 ) .
The following are the results which we have obtained from excitation of the nerve-roots from the second postcervical to the fifteenth postcervical inclusive .
In none of the four experiments did excitation of the second postcervical ( second dorsal ) pair produce any contraction of the spleen .
In none of the four experiments did excitation of the fifteenth postcervical pair produce any contraction of the spleen .
In three out of the four experiments a distinct contraction of the spleen was got on stimulation of all the roots on both sides from the third postcervical to the fourteenth postcervical inclusive .
This effect was relatively smaller on stimulation of the third and fourth postcervical nerves and of the eleventh to the fourteenth postcervical than on stimulation of the intermediate pairs , the most marked effects being obtained from the sixth , seventh , and eighth pail 's ( compare tracings 1 and 2 ) .
In all cases the effect was Curve of alterations in Spleen volume .
61b ' root left stole .
right side .
Time in seconds .
\#166 ; '.\#166 ; nimTnTnTTTmiimmitiummiiiimimtTTnnnmumviuuuvminini Tracing 1 Carve \lt ; f alterations Spleen wl^root left side .
Time irv seconds Tracing 1896 .
] Nerve-fibres which produce Contraction ofi the Spleen .
289 In one out of the four experiments contraction of the spleen was not obtained by stimulation of the eleventh and twelfth postcervical pairs of nerve-roots , nor of the thirteenth root on the right side , although obtained with all the other nerve-roots from the third to the fom*-teenth postcervical inclusive .
It is possible that this lack of effect may have been due to some accidental cause which we were unable to discover , or there may have been an individual peculiarity in the nerve distribution in this animal .
We have found that after intravenous injection of small doses of nicotine , the effect upon the spleen of stimulating the nerve-roots may entirely disappear , while stimulation of the splanchnics is still \#166 ; quite effective .
We infer , therefore , that the nerve-fibres which produce contraction of the spleen have a cell station in the prevertebral chain of ganglia .
We have not obtained any evidence regarding the nerve-root origin of the dilating or inhibitory fibres which we have shown to pass to itlie spleen by the splanchnic nerves ( see previous paper , p. 230 ) .
Conclusions .
The muscular tissue of the spleen in the dog is innervated through an extraordinarily large number of nerve-roots , viz. , from the third postcervical to the fourteenth postcervical inclusive .
The largest outflow , if we may judge by the amount of contraction produced , occurs from the fifth postcervical to the ninth postcervical inclusive .
Reasoning in the same way , the outflow is in each pair of nerve-roots larger upon the left than upon the right side , i.e. , it is not 'bilaterally symmetrical .
The outflowing fibres probably have a cell-connection in the main ganglionic chain of the sympathetic .
So far as we have been able to ascertain , there are no published observations bearing directly upon the subject of this communication .
Dr. J. Rose Bradford attempted some years ago , in this laboratory , to determine the spinal-root connections of the spleen w'ith the aid ot Roy 's oncometer , but he encountered considerable difficulty , and the results which he was able to obtain were inconclusive .
He informs ns , however , that he got contraction of the organ on stimulation of nerve-roots in the thoracic region on both sides , although the limits of the outflow were not decided , and that there was a tendency to greater contraction on stimulation of the roots on the one side than on the other .
[ Feb. 27 .
Dr. G. E. C. Wood .
A Method for Note added March 9 .
Since the above was communicated to the Society we have made , at the suggestion of Mr. Langley , some further experiments upon the action of nicotine , employing cats instead of dogs ( since in his experience the action of nicotine upon dogs is much more uncertain and difficult of interpretation ) .
We find that in the cat a small dose-of nicotine ( 1 to 3 milligrams ) temporarily abolishes the effect of stimulating the nerve-roots , whilst only slightly diminishing the effect of stimulating the splanchnics ; this being the same result as that above described upon the dog .
On the other hand , a large dose of nicotine ( 10 to 12 milligrams ) entirely abolishes the effects of stimulating both the nerve-roots and the splanchnics , whilst the nerves which pass to the spleen along with its blood-vessels are still freely excitable .
It is clear , therefore , from the last result that large dose\#174 ; of nicotine cause a complete block between the splanchnics and the splenic nerves , i.er.tin the semilunar ganglion ; so that there is , in all probability , a cell station in this ganglion for all the splenic fibres. .
On the other hand , as we have seen above , a block is apparently produced by small doses of nicotine between the nerve-roots and the splanchnics , i.e. , in the ganglia of the chain .
Whether this is really due , as we have suggested in the text , to the existence of another cell-connection in these ganglia , or whether , as Mr. Langley has suggested to us , it is capable of another interpretation is a question which we propose to reserve for a detailed communication of our-experiments in the 'Journal of Physiology , ' and we will also defer-until that communication reference to a paper by Bulgak on the innervation of the spleen , which appeared in Virchow 's ' Archiv,5 " vol. 69 , 1877 , and which had escaped our attention .
II .
" A Method for rapidly producing Diphtheria Antitoxines-Preliminary Note."* By G. E. Cartwright Wood , M.D.r B.Sc. Communicated by Dr. Pye-Smith , F.R.S. Received February 20 , 1896 .
The method for producing antitoxines , described in this preliminary communication , is the outcome of an investigation into the action of the products of the diphtheria bacillus on which I have been engaged * The investigation has been carried out in the laboratories of the Royal College of Physicians and Burgeons , and I should like here to express my great indebtedness-to the Laboratories Committee for the facilities there afforded to me .
I must also-thank them and , through them , the Honourable Goldsmiths ' Company , from whose-Research Fund a grant was placed at my disposal .

