]\gt ; Mr. .
F. Sheppard .
On the Geomefrical .
" " ematical Contribulions to the Theory of Evolution IV .
On the Lrrors of Frequency Constants and on the of ndom Selec \fnof ; g ion on tion and Correlation By ) , , F.R.S. , of tics a , Universiby and .
N. IT .
" " On ccrtain a for ] Cultivation of the Bacillus 04 \ldquo ; By , M.D. , F.R.S. IV .
" " Note rans and of Mam .
lian Ova } in oster-mothcr.\ldquo ; By WALIEII inity C. Communicated by Dr. W. H. , F.R.S. tions upon ) the \ldquo ; By ( Loncl .
) , itish edicftl A Bescarch Schola ] .
by .
A. SCIIAFFR , F.B.S. .
" " of David 's on the \ldquo ; Bv T. G. D.S , F.R.S. , Px.ofessor of Geology , London .
VII .
" " On the } tion of Tndices of ction of vsrions fo .
II .
In of tion of Glass By JAGADTS CH Bosr , , D. Sc. , Pro .
of Science , CollegQ , Calcutta .
LORD FUAYLDIGH , F.B.S. the Inti dence of Thickness of on Reflection of Electr)c Radintion.\ldquo ; By , I ) .
Sc. , Professor of .
Communicated by Lord RA .
R. S. OI1 of tlJc 'Normal Curve ' , .
fiefercn c to tion a to the hcory \ldquo ; By W. .
SHrPPARD , , LL. II .
, lerly bellow of llicaed by .
A. ORSYTH , .
Beceived Clnl ) of the is , in the first place , to simplify and trcafinent of correlation as expo lnded by ancis Galton and Karl Peal.son ; and in the second place to obtain goneral of ' Cnrve ' of Siatistics .
form theory of crrcr , to } ) them to questiollS arise iu distribnbions and normal relation .
The method is , { ] ) , olementary , the use of the avoided , though geometrical infinitesimals to a extent Gcometr.ical .
; defined ) the that product of the .
is const , if is .
MT boing a .
the is .
The is thepara } of of he cnrve to its to { 'or the Yfilue of or distallcc of clc of the If norrnal is its ce 0 .
It section of solid to is a of ils the c ions ; and , forc , if tl rics of plnues arc crics , so ) to their comlllOll base .
of its cclltrnl ordinate or of ctions ; 111 it is found of a ll .
Then it is shown nrcn shadl be ) ontll to of $(lid ] to the volume ( ( !
cnt of tho soli ) lin or ing ) .
Thus , when is givcn , this volunlc call be measured ( the lres of co-existenf ) heir the mcRtl } cf , anrl ab ) ( mealls .
) of freqnency of , of encc being le 1 ) 10 ono .
( so included is lb c , alled tho corrr , On ' Nornzal ' of Statistics .
It is shown that , whatever the laws of distribution may be .
the corx.elation-solid of the distributions of and is the } as that of the distributions of and , where are any constants whatever .
If and are distributed " " normally and ions are independent , the ] will be a normal solid .
Hence it follows that the ibution of also normal .
Galtoli 's dffinition of normal correlation is adopted ; his ' coeffiof correlation\ldquo ; refore D. It is shown that the correlation-solid of two ] correlated distributions is a normal solid , an , if tributions of and of are normally correlated , the values of are normally distributed , and the distributionf ; of and of are normally correlated .
The value of a case of normal correlation , can be obtained without , mean squares , and mean oduct .
If we lind medians and , and form a table of double classification , thus :\mdash ; then If we know the of fo ' which exceeds values X and X ' , and proportions for which exceeds and , we can , for any particular value of StruCb an area representing the ' of for which lies between X and , and and .
The plest case is that in which the distributions of and of are ] assibed in the same way , e.g. , according to the ' ' decile " " method .
The proportions of indifalling into the 1lasses corrcsponding to a double decile lassification a oblained by constructing a figure , is the same whatevel the value of may be , and movn ) the figure through a distance equal to of its whole length .
diagram so obtained cont a areas , repl.esellting the proportions in the 100 classes question .
The defillitions of independence of correlation are extended to any number of distributions , and it is sl1own that if the utions of , N. . . .
are normal , and either iudependent or C0l'related , the of .
are norm disbributed .
natical Contributions to the Theory Erolntion .
173 Theory of Error .
Let a community be divided into a number of claf ; ses , ) proporin fferent csses being .
, so at . . . . .
Suppose a random selection of individoals to be made , the drawn from the different sses being , , .
lt is proved geometrically , with the aid of the values of the errors , and that the distl.ibutions are 1lormally correlated .
It ) lows that the values ot any cxpression of the form .
are nor1nally distributed .
The mean of to be , and the mean product of .
and to be .
The applications are of ) kinds : \mdash ; ( 1 ) The of the ) able errors in rmination of qu ntitios are obt ined , and , ticnl , the probable the mean , mean square of tion , meau product of deviations : and ( 2 ) are ) } for } hypotheses ; whether distributio1ls cndent ; a bnfiou is ormal ; and whether two normal distributions are ; to the Theory of of nstallts and on the of ctit ) and tiou.\ldquo ; By KARL L. College , London .
Received Nber 25 , 18.97 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
This mcmoir ) a theorem , by which the nladc in the of any froquenc .
be .
It is that probable the of , wh ' bc the llfitul'e of fbe disther it be skew or .
The tance of is of is then ) to .
It is belection , of tion , elntion , will tion 1 ) only of the size , but tiou of the whole complex of selection , Iection is on for other uuoir , comploted .

