]\gt ; Sotutions .
: Mituti Thus .
( 4 ) Let the ific inductive capacity of the medium .
Then .
( 5 ) , The polarisation must be a linea'r function , of the -ordinates , thereforg .
( 6 ) Using 2 ) , ( 5 ) , and 6 ) and writing for , we obtain .
( 7 .
) shall now ssume that we are dealing with a well-defined ption band , 5each side of which there is a more or lesa transparent region .
We shall also assume that we are dealing with solutions coloured g which transmit an appreciable amount of light , hen ' millimetre ox thiok , even at the darkest point of the visible spectrum .
We can then neglect ' in comparisori and-can also neglect the variation in produced by the absorption band .
As the index of refraction of the solvents and .
glasses varies only 1 or 2 per cent. throughout the visible spectrum , may be considered constant roughout the absorption band .
The imaginary part of the left side of ( 7 ) is If refer to the under consideration , the only term on the right side of ( 7 ) which hss an appreciable imaginary part is .
Rewriting ( 4 ) , when A a function of .
Hence ' ( 8 ) where is a constant given by So far.th6 has ag general as possible .
Assume , how , that hfiww .
is , the number of Qf .
refore from ( 11 ) : w6 .
for gives . . . . . .
( 13 ) .
Formula ( 13 ) holdq only on the very special assumptions made by Drude .
Absorption bands in general have not the simple shape dsmanded by Drude 's theory : I have , nevertheless , applied the formula all the well-defined *brpti on which I oould get In view of our tgnorance of the subjoot , .
method may .
light the mechanism absorption deserves to be followed up .
Theoe is a great diversity of ways .
the absorption of a solution , but this does nake muob difference applying the formula , If the tables give tho fraction ot the incident light transmtted by a power or is the wave.length for which tb.e in half its maximum value .
On the othgr hand .
if the fraQtion of the incident transmitted is given directly , end I be its imuIB value , is the wave-length for which the fraction transmitted is .
In most cases we get a somewhat different result according w6 take on the red or violet side of the band have , as a rule , taken the red side , as that is generally better flned .
Onoe was chosen it wal never , no nlatbr what value .
The following table ( p. 610 ) gives qome results .
of Kab and ' Xalndkree well .as can b4 erpogM iri the oaso of eosin in wpter , but in he case of fuchsin howevqr , be the substance used was the ggqh results were not utilised as they new .
sulta.on fornl of ourveq the numbers wer9 tahen fri a gurves exists iq these glasses as an oxlde or silioate , aiarently Garnett 's theory does not rioh strength of olution employed , and ondy kfonms me that he not 'that they are opmogene.- .
i90S , ] lfeohanism of the of Solutions . .
values of obtained for the anilin colouring matters , when in water .
alcohol , or.ohloroform , are very striking , since he ratio of to ' of .
an electron ia about .
We are wdk.deotrolw , aeumpt are'not far When the is the values lower .
Thin raises the uestion whether the colouring matter is not in colloid tion-in ' .
these .
have no observations to go upon , but in this connection a paper by Dr. is interesting .
It may be noticed a oalulatioslashn made by rude from the dispersion .
solid cyanine gave for its.absorption band .
The values of obtained for the inorganic salts suggest ions , though here potassium permanganate is difficult to place .
Probably , though , we shaU have to fall back on more general theory and possibly also take pccount .
of the scattering of light by granules .
In conclusion , I should like to acknowledge my indebtedness to of .
for the , his criticism .
: Sheppard , " " the Influence of their State in Solution on the Absorption Spectra of Dissolved Dyes 'Roy .
Soc. Proc May , 1909 .

