Observations on the Freezing of the Albumen of Eggs .
By JAMES PAGET , Esq. , Professor of Anatomy and Surgery to the Royal College of Surgeons of England .
Communicated by THOMAS BELL , Sec. R.S. Received September 26 , 1849 , -Read January 24th , 1850 .
IN 1777 , JOHN HUNTER communicated to the Royal Society a series of experiments on the heat of animals and vegetables , among which were some showing that an egg , after having been frozen and thawed , will , on a second exposure to cold , freeze more quickly than it did before , and more quickly than a fresh egg does when exposed to the same temperature .
From these and other experiments , he concluded " that a fresh egg has the power of resisting heat , cold and putrefaction in a degree equal to many of the more imperfect animals ; " and he adds , " it is more than probable this power arises from the same principle [ i. e. a living principle ] in both* .
" Mr. HUNTER'S pupils generally adopted this conclusion : and the facts on which it was based have formed a chief part of the evidence for the existeince of a special vital principle capable of resisting , by a kind of passive opposition , the changes that physical forces produce in dead organic matter .
In the course of some inquiries into the nature of the life of the blood , I repeated and extended Mr. HUNTER'S experiments , and obtained results which , I venture to hope , may be deemed worthy of the consideration of the Society .
My experiments consisted chiefly in submitting to temperatures near to zero of FAHRENHEIT , fowls ' eggs , into which thermometers with slender bulbs were introduced .
The decrements of heat were registered every minute , and the time was noted at which each egg began to freeze , the general indication of that event being the swelling of the albumen , and its protrusion from the aperture through which the thermometer was passed .
I found , as Mr. HUNTER did , that a fresh egg generally resists freezing longer than one does which , having been previously frozen and thawed , is exposed , in all similar circumstances , to the same temperature .
The result of twenty experiments , in which such eggs were placed in temperatures ranging from zero to 10 FAHR. , was , that the fresh eggs were frozen , on an average , in 26 minutes , and the eggs that had been previously frozen and thawed , were frozen for the second or third time in 151 minutes .
I next determined , by similar experiments , the respective times of freezing of fresh eggs , and of such as were variously chlanged in structure and chemical composition .
Similar results appeared .
If the yelks of the eggs were broken , so as to be mingled with the albumen ; if their whole substance were decomposed , so as to emit a more or less putrid odour ; if a powerful electric shock had been passed through them , in all these conditions , they fioze more quickly than fresh and uninjured eggs did , that were exposed with them to the same low temperature .
The average difference in the respective times of freezing was nearly the same as that already stated .
All these experiments tended to confirm Mr. HUNTER'S explanation ; for all seemed to show that , by the influence of such forces as commonly destroy animal life , eggs lose some capacity of resisting the abstraction of heat .
But when I examined the registers of the decrements of heat sustained by the several eggs during each minute of their exposure to the cold , it appeared that the fresh eggs almost always lost heat more rapidly than those did which had been fiozen , broken , decomposed , or electrified .
An average result of experiments upon thirty-three eggs of each class was , that , between the fifth and fifteenth minutes after first exposure to a temperature of from 5 ?
FAHR. to 10 ?
FAHR. , the fresh eggs lost 17 ?
of heat , and the others only 13 , ? .
The reason why the firesh eggs , though they lost heat more rapidly than the others , yet were longer in freezing , was , that in most cases their temperature was reduced some degrees below 32Q before fireezing took place ; while the eggs that had been frozen before , or that were in any other way spoiled , always began to freeze as soon as they reached the temperature of 32 ? .
Mr. HUNTER had remarked this difference .
In one of his experiments , he says , " a fresh egg sank to 29I ?
, and in twenty-five minutes later than the dead one , it rose to 32 ?
, and began to swell and freeze .
" But I found that fresh eggs could be reduced to a much lower temperature without freezing .
In several experiments they fell to 200 ; in some to 160 , before , with a rapid rise to 320 , freezing took place ; and from some observations , which will be hereafter mentioned , I believe that , under favourable circumstances* , the temperature of a fresh and unbroken egg may be reduced to within 50 of zero of FAHRENHEIT without freezing , although its proper freezing-point , and that to which its temperature rises when it begins to freeze , is 32 ?
or between 31 ?
and 32 ?
0 .
It thus appeared that a fresh egg does not resist freezing as a living animal does , which either parts with its heat slowly , or else produces heat , compensating in some measure for that which is lost .
It is as much the peculiarity of the fresh egg to lose its heat more quickly than another does , as it is to be longer in freezing ; and , indeed , this quicker loss of heat seems essentially connected with the ability to be reduced far below 32 ?
without freezing ; for , among thirty-two frestl eggs , there were eleven which began to freeze at 32 ?
, and all these had lost heat slowly ; the average decrement between the fifth and fifteenth minutes of their exposure to cold being only 132 ? .
Many things observed in the course of these experiments seemed to indicate that the freezing of the fresh egg was retarded by some peculiarity of its mechanical construction , which was destroyed by the several means supposed to destroy its life .
It was , therefore , desirable to ascertain whether the capability of being reduced far below 32 ?
without freezing , and the consequent apparent resistance to freezing , could be destroyed by any means that would not at the same time prevent the egg from manifesting , by development in incubation , the surest evidences of vitality .
In experiments to determine this point , I found that one might , with a bent probe , gently detach the whole of the albumen of an egg from its connection with the membrane of the shell , and that after this the chick would be developed , although , perhaps , not to perfection .
But when eggs with the albumen thus disturbed were exposed to cold , they did not descend below 320 without freezing ; they lost heat less quickly , but froze sooner , than uninjured eggs did , when exposed with them to the same temperature ; they froze like the eggs which Mr. HUNTER considered dead .
Again , cracking the shell of an egg does not prevent the development of the young bird , although , in consequence of the excessive evaporation throughl the fissures , the development may be imperfect .
But when eggs with their shells cracked in many places , and with slight injuries of the membrane of the shell , were exposed to cold , they lost heat and froze just as those did which might be reputed dead .
Thus , then , mechanical injuries , such as could not have affected the chemical composition of the fresh egg , and such as did not prevent its development in incubation , were found sufficient to deprive it of its power of resisting freezing ; and thus its power of resistance appeared to be due , not to any vital principle , but to some peculiarity of mechanical construction .
It may be very difficult to prove what this peculiarity of construction is .
That it is a property of the albumen was proved by some experiments , in which albumen , gently removed from fresh eggs , exhibited the same mode of freezing as the entire fresh eggs did : and the following facts , as well as those already mentioned , are favourable to the opinion , that the property which enables fiesh albumen to descend far below 32 ?
without freezing , is its peculiar tenacity or viscidity , by means of which the water combined with it is held so steadily , that the agitation favourable , or even necessary , to the freezing at or near 32 ?
cannot take place .
1 , The decay and putrefaction of an egg , the freezing and again thawing of one , and ( as egg-preservers well know ) the stirring and frequent concussion all tend to diminish the viscidity of the albumen to such a degree , that , instead of forming a consistent substance , the greater part of it will flow like a thin liquid from an aperture in the egg-shell .
2 .
The albumen of eggs does not freeze like a dense solution of albumen , or of saline substances in water , but like water of which the ordinary freezing is prevented .
The freezing-points of aqueous solutions are , according to their densities , more or less below 32 ?
; and if , in exposure to intense cold , the temperature of any 223 such solution be reduced below its freezing-point , it will , at the instant of freezing , rise to that point , whatever it may be , and not to 32 ? .
Thus , I placed in a freezingmnixture of which the average temperature was 100 FAHR. , solutions of common salt in the proportions of 3 , 5 , 6 and 9 parts to 100 of distilled water ; they fell to from one to six degrees below their several freezing-points , and then , in the act of freezing , rose respectively to 28 ?
, 25 ?
, 24- ?
, and 23 ? .
At these temperatures they remained till they were thoroughly frozen , and then they all descended to the temperature of the medium in which they were placed .
The same is observable in the freezing of serum and blood , which , in their relations to heat , may be regarded as mere solutions of alburmen and saline matters : they freeze at from 290 to 31 ?
, and retain these temperatures till they are thoroughly frozen .
I found the same also in the freezing of milk and of thick mucilage of gum ; the former froze at 30 ?
, the latter at 280 , but neither of them in freezing rose to 32 ? .
Unlike all these substances , the albumen of fiesh eggs , however far below its freezing-point it may have descended , always in freezing rises to 320 ; it freezes therefore like water , or like a very weak saline solution , which , by some mechanical disposition of its particles , is prevented from freezing as soon as it is reduced to 32 ?
, or a few degrees lower .
3 .
The sudden strong agitation of fresh albumen , when its temperature is rieduced several degrees below 32 ?
, will often cause it to freeze at once* , as water under the same circumstances freezes .
4 .
It is well known , that when once a portion of any given quantity of water is frozen , the portion in contact with the ice cannot be reduced below 32 ?
without freezing .
I thought , therefore , that if I could bring ice just formed into contact with the albumen of an egg , the water in the albumrnen would frieeze as soon as it fell to 32 ?
, and so it proved ; for in three experiments , in which the air-cavities of freshl eggs were filled with water before exposing them to cold , the albumen did not descend below 32 ?
, but froze at that temperature .
Whether the explanation here offered of the peculiar property of the albumen of fresh eggs be right or not , the property will , I think , merit considetation in reference to both the nature and the purpose of the substance to which it belongs .
For , in regard to the nature of this form of albumen , its mode of freezing proves it to be essentially different both from all solutions of albumnen and from organic tissues holding albumtinous matter in suspension .
As I have already stated , the freezing* In the course of the experiments , I observed that the effect of agitation , on either albumen or a saline solution , when its temperature is reduced below its freezing-point , depends in some measure on the temperature of the medium in which it is placed .
Thus a saline solution , whose freezing.point was 28 ?
, might be reduced to 25 ?
in a medium of 24 ?
, and , on being now agitated , it would not freeze ; but a similar solution , reduced to 25 ?
in a medium of 10 ?
, would freeze at the instant of agitation .
In a medium of which the temperature averaged 21 ?
, no length of exposure and no agitation would , in one of my experiments , make albumen freeze , though it fell to the temperature of the medium ; but in others , when albumen , in a medium averaging 10 ?
, fell to 28 ?
, it froze as soon as it was agitated .
points of albuminous solutions are lower than 32 ?
in direct proportion to their densities ; they do not , in freezing , rise to 32 ?
, but freeze in all respects like saline solutions .
And the same mode of freezing may be observed in organic tissues in which albuminous fluids are suspended or infiltrated .
An eye , or its vitreous humour , a piece of muscle , gland , or brain , exposed to intense cold , loses temperature to 32 ?
or 31L ?
, and remains at this , its freezing-point , till it is fiozen hard throughout , and then descends to the temperature of the medium in which it is placed .
The purpose or utility of this peculiar property of the albutnen of eggs is manifest in the defence which it provides for eggs exposed to a temperature below 32 ? .
If an egg be frozen , the damage sustained by its structure is such that the germn cannot be fully developed ; but mere cold , however intense , if freezing does not take place , does not prevent the complete development of the young bird .
I placed three eggs in a freezing mixture , varying from zero to 50 FAHR. : one of them froze , and its shell was cracked from end to end ; another froze , and when it thawed , its yelk was burst and mixed with the albumen .
In incubation , two spots of blood were developed in the former , and an enlargement of the cicatricula ensued in the latter of these two eggs , -sufficient indications that the intense cold and freezing had not killed them , though it had spoiled their structure .
But in the third egg , which had been exposed for nearly an hour to a temperature below 5 ?
FAHR. , perfect development took place in incubation .
Even this degree of cold therefore had neither killed nor frozen the egg , though , according to the average rate at which eggs part with heat , its whole substance must have been for half an hour at a temperature between 5 ?
and 10 ?
FAHR. This security of eggs from the injurious influence of cold has also been proved , on a large scale , by the ingenious inventor of the hydro-incubator , Mr. CANTELO .
He has told me , that , to test the truth of the popular belief that eggs are always destroyed by exposure to a frosty air , he sometimes exposed baskets of eggs , through the whole of a Canadian winter 's night , to a temperature ranging , he believes , between 5 ?
and 10 ?
FAHR. Some of them were cracked , and these he threw away ; they were doubtless frozen and spoiled ; but the rest were placed in his incubator , and the usual proportion were hatched .
The need of such a provision against the influence of cold must exist in the case of many , or perlhaps of all , birds that breed in cold climates ; for accident must occasionally drive from their nests even those parent-birds that have not , like the common fowl , the custom of leaving their eggs for a certain time exposed to the open air .
In conclusion , I may repeat that the experiments I have related show that it is not by the power of a vital principle that eggs resist the influence of cold .
They show that certain things will destroy the power of resisting cold without affecting the capability of being developed , and of therein manifesting the best evidence of life ; and that when eggs yieldI to the influence of intense cold , they are not damaged unless they are frozen , and are not killed even when frozen .
The experiments thus remove almost the only remaining support of the hypothesis that such a vital principle may exist in organized bodies , as may enable them , even while inactive and displaying no other signs of life , to resist passively the influence of physical forces .

