332 Mr. K. R Lewin .
The Behaviour of the [ Sept. 15 Short and stumpy .
Intermediate .
Long and slender .
Trypanosoma gambiense Trypanosoma brucei per cent. 51 *2 32 *8 per cent. 23 *1 25 5 per cent. 25 -7 41 -7 This shows the percentage of the intermediate to be much the same in the two species , whereas Trypanosoma gamis richer in short forms and poorer in long than Trypanosoma brucei .
Whether these slight differences are fundamental or only accidental it is impossible at present to say , but enough has been written to show that Trypanosoma gambiense and Trypanosoma brucei approach each other very closely in size and shape .
The Behaviour of the Infusorian Micronucleus in Regeneration .
By Kenneth R. Lewin , B.A. , Senior Scholar and Coutts Trotter Student of Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. J. S. Gardiner , F.R.S. Received September 15 , \#151 ; Read November 2 , 1911 .
) The older experimenters on Infusoria have left very few records of the behaviour of the micronucleus in regeneration .
Balbiani ( '91 ) , in discussing the subject , declares that the presence of a micronucleus is not essential to regeneration , since he had examined certain regenerated merozoa* of Frontonia , Prorodon , and Stentor without finding a micronucleus even with the aid of reagents .
He also cut conjugating couples of Stentor at a time when the old meganueleus had started to degenerate , and found that , unless a new meganucleus were formed , none of the merozoa could regenerate .
He concluded that the micronucleus has no influence on regeneration .
Stevens ( '03 ) performed some experiments on and found that regeneration occurred only in the micronucleate piece ; but as no regeneration took place if more than three-quarters of the oral disc were removed , in * The word " merozoite " being well established in Sporozoan literature , I propose to use the term " merozoon " suggested by Johnson ( '93 ) for a cut fragment of an Infusorian .
1911 .
] Infusorian Micronucleus Regeneration .
spite of the continued presence of the micronucleus , the evidence only indicates the importance of leaving part of the oral disc , and leaves the question of the possible influence of the micronucleus quite undecided , as , indeed , the authoress states .
Of late , however , Calkins ( 'll ) has given evidence which goes some way to show that in Uronychia the micronucleus , though not always necessary to regeneration , exerts an influence on the process .
Cutting this hypotrich when division had taken place less than an hour previously , he found that in 2 cases out of 13 neither merozoon regenerated , and that in the remaining 11 one merozoon only in each case produced a normal animal , this being invariably the one with the single micronucleus characteristic of the species .
Also , in cells cut between 8 and 16 hours after division ( the period between two divisions being 36 hours ) , out of nine recorded experiments in which both merozoa were preserved , seven showed a regeneration of one , and that the micronucleate , merozoon only .
In the other two , both pieces regenerated .
These experiments favour the view that regeneration cannot occur in the absence of the micronucleus , unless the cell operated upon is at least from 8 to 16 hours old .
This conclusion must , I think , be accepted with great caution , especially as but little information is vouchsafed as to how the highly differentiated soma of Uronychia was divided .
In the cases figured there is only one ( fig. 6 ) in which the micronucleus fell to the portion of the anterior merozoon .
It must also be pointed out that Calkins does not consider the possibility of the micronucleus being reformed from the meganucleus in the cases where regeneration occurs .
It is impossible to determine the presence of the organella in the life of the animal , and from Calkins ' statements it is not clear how he found out which merozoon had received the micronucleus .
In only two cases does he expressly say that the unregenerate was killed and stained ( Calkins ' Expts .
28 and 34 , and his figs. 7 and 4b ) .
His fig. 4b shows a trilobed meganucleus , and a spherical fragment which from the sketch appears as likely to be a micronucleus as to be a detached piece of the meganucleus .
In an ordinary stained preparation of the animal there is but a slight difference in texture to be distinguished between the two nuclei .
I reproduce Calkins ' fig. 4b in my fig. A , together with a second drawing ( X ) of the unregenerate , with the doubtful body represented as a micronucleus ; Calkins gives no proof of its meganuclear nature .
By the supposition that the micronucleus could be re-formed in regeneration , all the results reported by him could be explained , at least , as regards the supposed influence of the micronucleus .
Mr. K. R. Lewin .
The Behaviour of the [ Sept. 15 , This caution in accepting Calkins ' conclusions does not necessarily imply a belief that they are incorrect .
There lies , however , at the base of his reasoning the tacit assumption that the micronucleus is never regenerated .
Further , he does not establish clearly that the micronucleus was the only organella in the possession of which the regenerates differed from the merozoa which were unable to recover the normal form .
Fig. A.\#151 ; Experiment on Uronychia transfugB , and A ' copied from Calkins .
X modified from A ' .
Concerning the regeneration of the micronucleus from the meganucleus the literature furnishes only the unsatisfactory note of Le Dantec ( '97 ) which states that in experiments on various monomicronucleate ciliates , not further particularised , a micronucleus was found later in merozoa which had been rendered amicronucleate by the operation .
In no later paper does the French author return to the subject , so a degree of scepticism is natural .
I have shown ( Lewin 'll ) that in Paramecium there occurs no regeneration of the micronucleus in ordinary conditions and that the presence of this organella is in no way necessary for the continuance of normal asexual life , with multiplication by fission .
Observations on Stylonychia mytilus .
These observations are only the beginning of the complete investigation that the subject demands , and are the more imperfect because of the difficulty I found in keeping healthy cultures in Naples .
The excellent drinking water there is fatal to Stylonychia in a few hours ; boiled and aerated it varies in its effects in a manner for which I am totally unable to account .
One stock culture alone , out of many laid down , has flourished to any extent , and most of my later experiments on individuals from this have been entirely vitiated by the discovery of frequent nuclear irregularities .
Methods.\#151 ; Single animals were placed in a drop of the mucilage of " Alga caragheen " on a slide thinly coated with paraffin .
They were cut with a special cutting apparatus designed for use with the system obj .
A ( Leitz ) 1911 .
] Infusorian Micronucleus in Regeneration335 and o .
2 .
The merozoa were isolated in nutritive solution on hollow-ground slides in a moist chamber .
Fresh or one-day-old hay infusion was used as culture fluid , with or usually without the addition of a few Colpidia .
* Stylonychia thrives quite well on a diet of bacteria and the nuclear relations are not obscured in preparations by the presence of the nuclei of ingested prey .
Nuclear phenomena were examined in glycerine mounts of animals fixed and stained by Schneider 's acetocarmine , which gives a perfectly clear picture of the nuclei .
In all the experiments I am about to describe , the hind end of the animal was removed by a transverse cut .
Only in a few cases did the cut pass between the two members of the meganucleus ; the most interesting results were obtained when the nuclear apparatus was left untouched .
These were the earlier experiments ; the removal of the anterior end was attempted later , when it was found that the stock culture was in a very heterogeneous condition as regards the nuclear relations of its individuals , and the results of these cuttings will not be dealt with .
As far as could be ascertained , they are in full agreement with those which follow .
The result I shall establish is briefly this:\#151 ; In the regeneration which follows merotomy , multiplication of micronuclei may occur , and this increase may cause the regenerated individual to have more micronuclei than the number \#166 ; typical of the species or race .
Stylonychia mytilus ( O.F.M. ) is a hypotrichous ciliate of considerable differentiation of parts ( see fig. B ) .
The nuclear apparatus consists of a bimembered meganucleus , to the left of each node of which lies a micronucleus .
There is a variety with four micronuclei , but with this I have had nothing to do .
There is a fine connection between the members of the meganucleus , but it is usually invisible in stained and cleared preparations .
I shall use the following formula to express the nuclear relations:\#151 ; M , am : M , bm .
M stands for a member of the meganucleus , and m for a inicronucleus , a being the number lying by the anterior M , and b the number by the posterior M. As is implied thus , the anterior M is written first .
The normal condition of the animals with which I worked was M , 1 m : M , 1 Or written more simply , M , m : M , Mr. K. R. Lewin .
T Behaviour of the [ Sept. 15 , The irregularities which cropped up in the stock culture were the occurrence of animals of the types :\#151 ; M , 2m : M , m , and M , m : M , 2m .
Cases of Equal Section.\#151 ; In these I include all cases in which the plane of section passed between the two members of the meganucleus .
Each of the merozoites thus obtained is capable of regeneration and subsequent division .
ad.memb .
If\#151 ; ; Fig. B.\#151 ; Stylonychia my tiles ( semi-diagrammatic ) .
Ventral view .
x300 .
ad .
memb .
, adoral membranellse .
mega- , m , micronucleus .
fr .
, frontal cirri .
contractile vacuole .
an .
, anal cirri .
marg .
, marginal cirri .
The initial condition is M , m , but regeneration includes segmentation of the M into two members , and the division of m. The normal relation , M , m :M , m is thus attained .
The division of the micronucleus might , from a consideration of this case alone , be regarded as part of the mechanism of organic regulation , since its effect is to restore the normal proportions .
Cases of Removal of a Plasmatic Portion from the Posterior End.\#151 ; In none of these was the nuclear apparatus disturbed by the section .
( 1 ) Merozoon killed hours after section .
M , m : M , m* .
1911 .
] Infusorian Micronucleus in Regeneration .
The posterior micronucleus m* was in an early stage of division .
( Fig. 1 .
) ( 2 ) Merozoon killed of hours after section .
M , m : M , The posterior micronucleus was in division { mm ) .
( Fig. 2 .
) ( 3 ) Merozoon killed 3 hours after section .
M , mmf : M , mf .
The micronuclei marked mf were in process of reconstruction after division .
vFig .
3 .
) ( 4 ) Merozoon killed 3f hours after section .
M , mmf : M , mf .
Reconstruction of mf had gone a little further than in ( 3 ) .
( Fig. 4 .
) ( 5 ) Merozoon killed 18| hours after section .
M , 2m : M , m. ( Fig* 5 .
) Most probably this is a case where the posterior micronucleus had divided .
Fig. 4 shows that in that case two micronuclei would be found anteriorly .
There is a possibility that this is merely one of the abnormalities which became frequent later , and that the animal was so constituted before the operation .
( 6 ) Merozoon had divided 27 hours after section .
Both daughters were killed .
Micronuclear division had presumably taken place during regeneration , and the six inicronuclei found altogether in the two animals were formed by the division of the three present after regeneration was complete .
I do not attempt to explain in detail the irregular distribution to the daughters , or the unusual positions of some of the micronuclei in the cell .
It is not known which of the individuals arose from the anterior part of the merozoon .
( Figs. 6 and 7 .
) 2M , 4m , and 2M , 2m .
( 7 ) Had divided 46 hours after section .
Each daughter had divided 24 hours later , and a sample of each was killed .
( Figs. 8 and 9 .
) M , m : M , 2m , and M , 2m : M. m. By the next day each had divided again , and samples were again killed , the nuclear relations in both cases being:\#151 ; M , m : M , 2m .
An accident caused the loss of both survivors .
Mr. K. It .
Lewin .
The Behaviour of the [ Sept. 15 , Figs. 1\#151 ; 7 .
The figures were drawn from animals fixed and stained with Schneider 's acetocarmine and mounted in glycerine .
This method does not lend itself to the preservation of cytoplasmatic detail , but in practically every case the ad oral membranellte could h distinguished , and are represented to mark the anterior end of the animal .
The outlines were sketched with the aid of a camera lucida , *and the magnification was 300 ( Zei\gt ; s apochr .
, obj .
3 mm. , oc .
4 ) .
n/ i n 1911 .
] Infusorian Micronucleus Regeneration .
Figs. 8\#151 ; 12 .
340 Mr. K. R. Lewin .
Behaviour of the [ Sept. 155 It is quite possible that every division produced daughters respectively:_ M , 2 m : M , m , and M , : M , 2m .
IP !
# ; .
li The experiments so far described make a series which proves definitely that the regenerative processes involve in some cases a division of the micronucleus .
When a Stylonychia is cut equally the mitosis always here associated with regeneration restores the normal number of micronuclei .
In these experiments , too , there is a reorganisation of the meganucleus , which does not occur when a purely plasmatic portion of the animal is removed .
In the numbered series of experiments , on the other hand , the mitosis is no regulative action , but results in the regenerate having an abnormally large number of micronuclei .
More than 50 per cent , of the experiments in plasmatic removal gave negative results with regard to nuclear division , i.e. , the fully regenerated merozoa had the normal nuclear relation , M , m : M , m. Two cases must now be given in which there is indicated a division of the anterior micronucleus , i.e. , that farther from the plane of section .
It is possible that this occurred more often , but in view of the heterogeneity of my material during the later experiments I cannot be certain of this .
[ It to | III Ik I II I ( 8 ) Merozoon killed 2f hours after section .
M , m* : M , m. m is in an early stage of division .
( Fig. 10 .
) ( 9 ) 1 hour after section the frontal cirri could not be seen .
The animal was in continual rotation .
Between 3 and 5 hours after section the adoral membranellse were withdrawn .
7 hours after section the adoral membranellae were regenerated .
No anal cirri seen .
22| hours after section the ciliation was normal , but the posterior end of the regenerate was rather pointed .
Staining revealed the fact that the anterior micronucleus had divided:\#151 ; M , m : M , 2to .
The infusorian was rather more transparent than is usual , and careful observation before cutting had made me fairly confident that the original relations were normal:\#151 ; M , to : M , to .
\#166 ; That the posterior micronucleus did not divide is in no way surprising , for as is mentioned above , in more than 50 per cent , of the experiments there was no mitosis caused .
1911 .
] Infusorian Micronucleus Regeneration .
Two more experiments may be quoted , in both of which it is probable that the posterior micronucleus divided .
( 10 ) Merozoon killed 4^ hours after section .
M , 3m : M , I have never found in the stock culture an individual with so uneven a distribution of micronuclei , so it seems probable that the cut animal had nuclei:\#151 ; M , 2m : M , m. Division of the posterior micronucleus would then give the relation observed .
( Fig. 11 .
) ( 11 ) Merozoon killed 22 hours after section .
In the hinder half were two micronuclei , one in the usual position close to the meganucleus , and one right at the posterior border of the body .
M , m : M , ( Fig. 12 .
) I interpret this as a case where one daughter nucleus was carried at the end of the spindle to the posterior margin of the body , and not anteriorly to the side of the front member of the meganucleus .
Discussion.\#151 ; It is certain that division of the micronucleus can be caused to occur during the processes of regeneration which follow operation .
In the majority of cases in which mitosis occurred , it was the micronucleus near the cut surface which divided , indicating that division is caused by local formative processes rather than by the general condition of the cell .
The few puzzling cases in which the anterior micronucleus divided , have a light thrown on them by experiment ( 9 ) .
Here the absorption and subsequent regeneration of the adoral membranellae made the anterior region a locality of constructive activity , whilst the regeneration of the hind end proceeded with abnormal slowness .
The absorption and subsequent regeneration of the adoral membranellse do not usually occur .
In the great majority of cases at no time is the animal without these organella ; ; if any reorganisation occurs it goes on by imperceptible stages .
Now in more than 50 per cent , of the experiments there was no nuclear increase , so regeneration can go on without causing the micronucleus to divide .
In these cases either the micronucleus was in a state different from that obtaining in the successful experiments , or the conditions in the cell were not such as to cause mitosis .
Further research will show if there be a connection between the age of the individual and the readiness of the micronucleus to divide .
It may well be , also , that the stimulus to division has to surmount some threshold before it becomes effective .
Before speaking of this , however , it is necessary to 342 Mr. K. R. Lewin .
T Behaviour of the [ Sept. 15 summarise the evidence for regarding the micronucleus as an organella of some independence during the asexual period , living in the plasma as it were in a nutritive solution , and pricked on to division by some definite change in its environment:\#151 ; ( a ) The cell can live very well without the micronucleus , in the case of Paramecium at least .
( Lewin 'll .
) ( b ) The division of the micronucleus can occur independently of cell and of meganuclear division , e.g. , in depression ( Popoff '09 ) , in regeneration and in conjugation .
( c ) The behaviour of the micronucleus in regeneration ( in is not of the nature of a regulation ; in fact , its effect may be increase of the micronucleus above the normal number .
These considerations justify , I think , the heuristic conception of the micronucleus as living independently during the asexual cycle with the cell as its environment ; it is independent in so far as it can lie outside that narrower individuality of the organism which is jealously preserved by the processes of organic regulation .
Whether this view can be extended to the micronucleus at the time of conjugation remains to be seen ; very possibly at this epoch in infusorian life the organella in question loses its independence and merges in the regulated individuality of the animal .
Otherwise it is not at once clear how the great regularity of nuclear organisation after conjugation is brought about .
I may point out that the measure of independence here conceptually accorded to the micronucleus in no way precludes the possibility of its influencing and being influenced by the cell in which it lies , just as infusoria in a culture fluid influence it and it them .
In this way I regard the micronucleus as being ripe for division , if not throughout the whole of its resting phase , at least long before the cell is ready for fission .
There needs only to arise the appropriate stimulus , i.e. , the proper chemical or electrical condition of the circumambient plasma , and mitosis will occur .
At division , and in regeneration , this stimulus is associated with local formative activity ; local , since in regeneration it is the nucleus near the place of active formation of new parts which divides .
In the artificial depression induced by Popoff in the stimulus , if it be the same , is associated with a disturbance of the normal metabolism , such as occurs in " natural " depression .
At conjugation the independent divisions of the micronucleus are of a special type , owing either to a difference in the stimulus or to a change in the nucleus itself .
I cannot agree with Popoff when he compares the 1911* ] Infusorian Micronucleus in Regeneration .
divisions he observed with the micromiclear multiplication at conjugation , for in his figures the mitoses appear to be quite of the ordinary type.'* Resuming the discussion of the experimental results , it is now clear what I mean by the stimulus having perhaps to surmount some threshold before causing mitosis .
It can easily be imagined that the grade of constructive activity must reach a certain degree of steepness before it or some concomitant can start the micronucleus dividing .
Hence , if it be assumed that the grade of activity can be measured by the whole time taken by regeneration , when the process goes on slowly , no mitosis would be expected .
I suppose that the cases in which no mitosis occurred differed from the successful experiments either in the age of the micronucleus , or in the intensity of the constructive processes .
Both factors may work together , but that the latter is concerned is indicated in a measure by experiment ( 9 ) .
Here there was the usual regeneration of the cirri and of the hind end of the body taking place more slowly than usual .
( Regeneration is normally accomplished in from three to five hours , and after seven the posterior ciliation was not complete in this case .
) The posterior micronucleus did not divide .
Anteriorly , the adoral membranellse , withdrawn between the third and the fifth hour after section , were replaced by the seventh hour , indicating considerable formative intensity .
The anterior micronucleus did divide .
One factor in the organisation of S remains to be mentioned , viz. , the unknown influences which determine the situation of the micronuclei in the cell .
Normally , each lies by a member of the meganucleus .
Of the nature of the forces which bring this about nothing is known .
After the increase in the number of micronuclei accompanying regeneration , the supernumerary nucleus usually lies by the side of the meganuclear element other than that by which its sister is found .
The normal spindle-length in mitosis in Stylonychia spans the distance between the two members of the meganucleus .
This regularity does not always obtain , as can be seen from figs. 6 and 7 .
The failure of the forces to order the arrangement of the micronuclei in the usual way is probably the cause of the unequal distribution between the sister animals .
Fig. 2 also indicates an irregularity , the anterior micronucleus lying on one side of the meganucleus , and the posterior ( in division ) on the other , a most unusual thing .
Fig. 12 strongly suggests that the unknown forces In Paramecium , ( in which Popoff observed similar phenomena ) at least one would expect to see the micronucleus in the characteristic " crescent stage which precedes the formation of the spindle for the first division in conjugation .
PopofF figures several mitoses , but does not refer to this stage .
VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. 2 C 344 Behaviour of the Infusorian Micronucleus in Regeneration .
have utterly failed to direct the division of the hind micronucleus , with the result that one product has been carried to the very posterior end of the cell .
These phenomena are to be compared with those exhibited by the micro-nucleus of Paramecium .
Normally lying in a notch in the side of the meganucleus , the organella moves out , or is swept away , into the endoplasm on occasions when the animal is starving or in depression .
Here is shown the same stereotyped position of the micronucleus , and the same occasional failure of the forces concerned to maintain it .
The experiments recorded above were performed at the Stazione Zoologica , in Naples , during my tenure of the Cambridge University table there .
To the officials of the station I wish to express my thanks for many kindnesses .
I am indebted as Coutts Trotter Student to the authorities of Trinity College for permission to hold the studentship at Naples .
LIST OF CITED LITERATURE .
Balbiani ( '92 ) .
" Nouvelles recherches exp6rimen tales sir la merotomie des Infusoires cili6s , " ' Ann. de Micrographie , ' vol. 4 , pp. 369 , 449 .
Calkins ( 'll ) .
" Regeneration and Cell Division in Uronychia , " 'Journ .
Exp. Zoology , ' vol. 10 , p. 95 .
Johnson ( '93 ) .
" A Contribution to the Morphology and Biology of the Stentors , " ' Journ. of Morphology , ' vol. 8 , p. 548 , note .
Le Dantec ( '97 ) .
" La regeneration du micronucleus chez quelques Infusoires cilies , " ' C.-R .
Ac .
Sci. , ' vol. 125 , p. 151 .
Lewin ( 'll ) .
" Nuclear Relations of Paramecium caudatum during the Asexual Period , " ' Cambridge Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 16 , p. 39 .
Popoff ( '09 ) .
" Experimentelle Zellstudien.\#151 ; III , " 'Arch .
f. Zellforsch .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 1 .
Stevens ( '03 ) .
" Further Studies on the Ciliate Infusoria , Licnophora and Boveria , ' Arch. f. Prot .
, ' vol. 3 , p. 1 .

