II .
" On the Isolation of the Radical , Mercuric Methyl .
" By GEORGE BOWDLER BUCKTON , Esq. , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) Dr. Frankland , in his valuable memoir communicated to the Royal Society , has pointed out that hydrargyro-methylium , zinc-ethylium , and analogous bodies may be regarded as formed upon the type of the metallic oxides , the oxygen of which he considered was represented by methyl , ethyl , &amp;c. The hypothetical radical hydrargyromethylium , C2 H3 { Ig according to this view would correspond to numerous oxides , 0 Hg .
Diinhaupt and Strecker have studied and described the salts of hydrargyro-methylium and hydrargyraethylium , but chemists do not appear , hitherto , to have succeeded in reducing these bodies to the mercuric type , or in preparing the metalloids themselves .
The author has undertaken experiments with a view to the completion of this portion of their history , a brief summary of which he now offers .
Iodide of hydrargyro-methylium was prepared through the agency of sunlight , in the usual manner ; and after the removal of every trace of iodide of methyl , it was intimately mixed in a mortar with finely powdered cyanide of potassium .
Small charges were then introduced into flasks and distilled over the gas flame .
Gaseous and solid products are formed , together with a heavy liquid , which passes into the receiver .
After washing with water , and rectification over chloride of calcium , this liquid has the following properties : It is colourless , highly refractive to light , and almost wholly insoluble in water .
When pure , it has a faint and somewhat sweetish odour .
It is very combustible , and burns with a luminous flame and abundant evolution of mercurial vapour .
It is very soluble in alcohol and in ether , from the former of which it precipitates on addition of water .
Its boiling-point lies between 93 ?
and 96 ?
C , and its specific gravity is 3'069 .
It thus appears to have a weight greater than any known non-metallic liquid at ordinary temperature .
By analysis it gave numbers according with the formula C2H3Hg .
The formation of this body is readily intelligible from the followin g equation , if we neglect secondary decompositions , C2H3Hg2 , I+ KCy= C2H3Hg + KI + Cy + Hg .
The cyanogen does not , however , appear as liberated gas , but remains behind in the form of paracyanogen .
From the constitution of this substance , the name mercuric methyl is proposed .
Should this appellation be accepted , Dr. Frankland 's radical would be styled mercurous methyl .
To control the analysis , and further corroborate the formula , the specific gravity of the vapour was taken after Duras 's method .
It was found to be 14-86 .
The weight represented by the formula C2gH3Hg , divided by the experimental density , gives the quotient 7'73 .
Supposing the constituents of mercuric methyl condensed into one volume of vapour , the number 7'23 should have been obtained .
115 The theoretical density of mercuric methyl is = 15'9 .
It is , 7-23 however , more probable that the elements of this compound are condensed into two volumes , whence the formula should be doubled to ( C211)2Hg11 .
Mercuric methyl may also be obtained , but less readily , by employing hydrate of potassa'or lime , instead of an alkaline cyanide .
In this reaction much gas is liberated .
2(C2H33Hg2 , I ) + 2KOHO = C0211g + C.214 + 3-IgO + +HO + 2KI .
Mercuric methyl exhibits no tendency to unite with the electronegative elements , such as chlorine , oxygen , &amp;c. All attempts to produce such combinations lead to the destruction of the substance .
With iodine or bromine the liquid hisses as if hot metal were plunged into water .
Methyl gas is liberated , and the iodide or bromide of mercurous methyl is produced : C2H g5 } +-C=2H3 , Hg I+C1H3 .
Iodide of mercurous methyl .
On the other hand , the action of concentrated sulphuric or hydrochloric acid furnishes hydride of methyl or marsh gas , with deposition of crystals of the corresponding chloride or sulphate .
C,2I Hg + -HCI= 23Hg2Cl + C213 , H. The salts of mercurous methyl , and the radical mercuric methyl , are both decomposed by the action of a dilute acid and clean zinc , into metallic mercury and gases .
Mercuric methyl furnishes with bichloride of tin a crystalline compound , which decomposes , on addition of water , into chloride of inercurous methyl and a soluble tin salt .
The same chloride also is produced by the action of terchloride of phosphorus .
Mercuric methyl is a ready solvent of caoutchouc , resins , and phosphorus .
It , however , has but little solvent action on sulphur .
Some interest attaches to the circumstance that iodide of mercurous methyl is easily produced by heating mercuric iodide with mercuric methyl .
Mercuric ethyl .
The author has also prepared the radical of mercuric ethyl .
From its proneness , however , to decomposition at the high temperature at which the reaction is effected , he has not been able to obtain more than sufficient to make a qualitative examination of the new body .
It boils at a temperature above that of waterj and burns with a more lurid flame than is exhibited by mercuric methyl .

