Researches in Physical Geology.-Third Series .
By W. HoPKINS , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society , of the Geological Society , and of the Cambridge Philosophical Society .
Received November 25 , 1841 , -Read January 13 , 1842 .
On the Thickness and Constitution of the Earth 's Crust .
1 .
THE result at which I arrived in my preceding memoir , respecting the precessional motion of the pole , on the hypothesis of the earth 's interior fluidity , is the following : e-Pe- ) , 1-e ) , ... ... . .
PI ( 1 ) ( 1 ) Pl(1 .
) where P1 denotes the precession of a solid homogeneous spherloid of which the ellipticity = sl , that of the earth 's exterior surface , and P ' the precession of the earth , supposing it to consist of an interior heterogeneous fluid , contained in a heterogeneous spheroidal shell , of which the interior and exterior ellipticities are respectively s and s1 , the transition being imrnediate from the entire solidity of the shell to the perfect fluidity of the interior mass .
2 .
In the application of this result to the actual case of the earth , we must observe , in the first place , that , supposing the interior mass to be fluid , its fluidity cannot be quite perfect , as explained in the introductory observations to my first memoir .
Consequently the assumption , made in our investigations , of the absence of all tangential action between the shell and fluid will not be accurately true .
Moreover , it would seem extremely probable that the transition from the solidity of the shell to the fluidity of the interior mass , instead of being immediate , must be gradual .
If , however , the thickness of the shell be not considerable with reference to the earth 's radius , the fluidity of the portion not remote from the centre will be nearly perfect , and the whole of the interior mass , with the exception of that part near the actual solid portion , may , as a near approximation , be considered as perfectly fluid with reference to any mechanical action upon it .
Again , supposing the change from the solidity of the exterior to the fluidity of the interior mass to be continuous , let us conceive a surface passing through all the lowest points of that portion of the mass which may be regarded as perfectly solid , and another surface through all the highest points of that portion which may be regarded as perfectly fluid .
The first of these surfaces will be one of equal solidity and the second one of equal fluidity ; the fluidity of the mass contained between them being imperfect .
Now if we were to consider the whole of this imperfectly fluid mass as entirely solid , we should manifestly take the thickness of the shell too large to represent the actual phenomena depending on that thickness ; and if , on the contrary , we should consider the whole of the imperfectly fluid portion as perfectly fluid , we should take the thickness of the shell too small .
Hence there must be some surface of equal fluidity ( or , if we please so to term it , of equal solidity ) intermediate to the above surfaces , such that if the whole mass superior to it were entirely solid , and that inferior to it entirely fluid , the phenomena of precession and nutation would be the same as in the actual case of a gradual transition from the solidity of the superior to the fluidity of the inferior portions of the mass .
When , therefore , we speak of the interior surface of the solid shell with reference to our previous investigations as applicable to the case of the earth , it is this intermediate , or effective surface which is always to be understood ; and the thickness of the earth 's crust , as defined by this surface , I shall term its of fective thickness .
3 .
In order that the value of P may agree with that determined by observation , we must have approximately PI _plp and , therefore , referring to the equation of Article 1 , we must have 1+ q_ An approximate value of y-^ will be obtained by making e constant in the expression given for it in Article 5 , Mem. II .
We then have Ih 2a5 q5 1 alb a5 2a which gives ( l 6 )-(1'a 1)= It has been stated ( Art .
2 .
Mem. II .
) , that if n be ever negative , it can only be so when a= ai very nearly .
But in this case 51 is extremely small , and therefore the value of the second factor on the left-hand side of the above equation will be very nearly = unity .
In all other cases it will be less than unity .
Let it = 1 ; then s1 1 , -8 1 3 ' and If , 11L8 1p If , as an approximation , we omit X ( which will necessalrily be considerably smaller 44 than unity for such values of a as we shall be concerned with ) , we have 8= 18 7.(3 .
) l-^=1.^.8 8 which gives too great a value of ? .
Now , that we may be able to satisfy equation ( 2 .
) , s must be less than , / i. e. it must diminish as the thickness of the earth 's crust increases ; and , therefore , the thickness which corresponds to this approximate value of s will be too small ; or the actual thickness of the solid crust of the globe which would give the precession P , must necessarily be greater than that for which the value of is S l. 4 .
We must now proceed to determine the relation between.the value of and that of a , a , the thickness of the solid crust .
If we assume ( as I shall now do ) that the fusibility of the matter composing the earth is equal at equal depths * , it would seem that the only conceivable causes which can affect the degree of solidity or fluidity of the mass , are temperature and pressure .
It may be doubted by some persons whether solidification be actually promoted by the latter cause or not ; but there will be no corresponding uncertainty in our conclusions respecting the minimum thickness of the earth 's crust consistent with the observed amount of precession ; because , if they be true , this cause being effective , they will easily be seen to be so , afortiori , if it produce no effect .
If temperature produced no effect in solidification , the surfaces of equal solidity ( or fluidity ) would be surfaces of equal pressure , and therefore of equal density ; and if pressure did not promote solidification , the surfaces of equal solidity would be isothermal surfaces .
Assuming both causes to be effective , conceive two surfaces of equal density and temperature respectively , passing through the same point ( in the axis of the spheroid , for instance ) ; then will the surface of equal solidity through the same point be intermediate to the two former , the ellipticities of which will therefore be limits to that of the surface of equal solidity .
It is these limits which we must now proceed to determine .
The greatest difficulty in the determination of the temperature at any point of a body cooling by conduction , is that which arises from satisfying the conditions at the surface in each particular case .
This has been effected only in the sphere , the circular cylinder , and a few other simple cases , but not including that of the spheroid , the isothermal surfaces of which , consequently , have never been completely determinedt .
The approximate solution which I am about to offer is founded on the following assumption .
Let r ' be the distance of any point on the surface of the spheroid from the centre , and a , the polar or least distance ; it is assumed that the temperature in the spheroid at a depth = r ' a1 is the same as it would have been at that depth if the spheroid had been a sphere with radius = r ' .
If the ellipticity be small , and the process of cooling has been continued a sufficient length of time , this assumption will manifestly be almost accurately true .
The solution of the problem is thus made to depend on formulae which have been given by POISSON in his ThJorie de la Chaleur .
To this I now proceed . ? .
Determination of the Forms of Isothermal Surfaces within the Earth .
5 .
Adopting POISSON'S notation* , let u denote , at any time t , the temperature of any point of the earth , and let U= U1 -+ U where ul is such as to satisfy the general differential equation for the propagation of heat by conduction , the conditions relative to the original temperature , and that which would exist at the surface at any time if the earth were a sphere whose radius = a1 .
Then when t becomes very great , as it is assumed to be in the case of the earth , taking the common expression for the temperature in a sphere of large radius , as a sufficient approximation to that of the actual case of the earth , we have ^ arl er 7rr --t u-a irs cos -u =(^a , 5-a2cosaJ 2a where C is the value of ul at the centret .
At the surface the first term vanishes , and the value of ul is reduced to the second term , which , however , is so small that it may here be altogether neglected .
Consequently a2 a2 u1 =-C a.sin r a2 Let $ denote the value of u at any point for which r= a1 , D being a function of t and of 0 , the angle which r makes with the axis of revolution of the spheroid ; or since ( t being very large ) u1 = 0 , approximately when r= al , i may be taken as the value of u ' for that value of r. It remains to find a value of u ' which shall satisfy the general differential equation , and the particular condition u ' =Y when r -al .
Let ru= UO + UI ... .+ U , ... Uo ... .
U ... .
being a series of LAPLACE'S coefficients , and functions of the polar coordinates of the proposed point .
Also let tions of one independent variable , and of the second order .
The complicated form of these equations , however , would seem to render them at present of little avail in the solution of the problem considered in the text .
a series likewise of LAPLACE'S coefficients , independent of r. Then shall we have* IJn = R , n Zwhere R= M. r +1 cos m cos ) sin2 " + 1 .
d , M. being an arbitrary constant .
Hence if we denote the value of the definite integral by N , , , we shall have ut= { MoNoZo + ... .+ MN , r Z +.}When r= al , u ' must = - ; and therefore if the corresponding value of Nn be denoted by ( N. ) , we shall have Mo ( No ) So ... .
+ Mn ( N ) a " , Z , + ... .
= So + ... .+ Zn +-. .
, which gives for the determination of M. , 1n a , ( Nn ) whence ut ( N , )N , -* ( N z.+n--).-According to our assumptions for the value of t ( Art .
4 .
) , we must have g equal to the temperature ( ul ) in a sphere , whose radius = r ' , at a distance r ' a , from its surface .
Therefore t:C .
bI +b ( r ' al ) ~r-t ; . .
1 or omitting - , C being the temperature at the centre .
Or since r= al ( 1 +S cos2 ) , a2 X2 -= C E1 cs2E a2 omitting smaller terms .
It is here supposed that the temperature of the surface of the earth is constant and equal to zero .
If we take into account the variation of external temperature in passing from the pole to the equator , we have only to consider se as the ellipticity of that surface of equal temperature which touches the earth 's surface at the equator , the temperature there being also assumed as zero .
Then s will be rather greater than the ellipticity of the earth .
Putting the expression for t under the form of LAPLACE'S coefficients , we have =C s1 --+ ( cos2 -3J ) }2= --1 +C 1 , ( COS2 0 ) } which gives Z. , 0 , except for n 0 , or n= 2 ; and Z2 =C ( cos2 3 ) also m -m =--aa Hence 1I _l ( No N r2 ) ( N 2 a* -t 3 ( N0o ) ( N2 ) aj ' +A i ) I It remains to determine No , ( No ) , N2 , and ( N2 ) .
We have N.= cos ( cos ) sin2 " '1 dw ; or putting cos.r , N , =g I cos ( are .
x ) ( 1 -)"dx ; and performting the integrations for n=0 and n2 , we obtain 2ar Noi-- , sin -r , rra1 ( 48,5 16 a3 .
r 48 a , r 2= _ * " 1 *s i -cos and putting r= al , we have ( No)= 2 , 48 ( N2 ) -Hence N0 _1 ai .
r ( No)=7 sl ' n r , 32 Z a,5 aX8 .
r a4 r -( _ ... . .
rsm COS Ir or putting 02^2 ( U e a1a { ~C aG -osa ?
; we have for the equation to the isotiermal sllrface , of which the temnperature is u at the time t , a , rna N ?
N r2 rr a+ ( No ) -(N2+ ) a ( N Suppose r= a1 xx where is small compared with unity .
Then we have approximately a , 4r / .sn x ? ?
4 .
x\ 01 + ( No ) aI N2 r2_ r-9 x ( N2 ) a33 a ; and therefore , L ( I - .
, x ( 9- .
x , ) G=i +i + ) -\ Q -9 1\ j)1 -93 , ( 1 a2 a We may here omit ( -j ) and the products of a and sl , except in the last term , in which we may substitute for its approximate value , G. We have thus ( putting a1 r or ) , G -=i -+(1--Y..7G ) COS2 0 ; whence r ' I-v 9 Gelcos Ol raa=( G ) + and r=(lG)a[l +{+ ( 13 - ' G}coS2t ] the aproximate equation to the isothermal surface .
Hence it appears that the ellipticities of the isothermal surfaces within the earth are greater than that of the surface .
Thus if G== l , we have al ellipticity = ( 1 -+ 07 ) sq nearly .
It will also be observed that it increases with G , i. e. with the depth .
A further approximation gives a somewhat slower rate of increase , but the inference from the above formula is sufficient for our purpose .
4 .
Ellipticity of any Surface of equal density within the Earth .
6 .
If we assume the density of the earth ( g ) at any distance ( a ) from its centre to be such that sin q ' ag=A -.-..a 0.49 being constant ) , and take q ' a= 150 ?
, we obtain a value of e ( the ellipticity of the surface ) which coincides very nearly with its observed value , as shown in the common treatises on the figure of the earth .
This expression for g also gives us the ratio of the mean to the superficial density equal to 2*4225 * , which agrees very nearly with the value determined by CAVENDISH .
It therefore appears extremely probable that this formula represents very approximately the actual law of the earth 's density .
The above expression for g gives us tan qt alq ' a q'2 a2 tan a+ sl tan qa q ' a31 I1-r , -3 tan qal + qta 3 If we here substitute the above value of q a , , and put a= a , , we obtain a value of s which nearly satisfies equation ( 3 .
) ( Art .
1 .
) .
If we take q ' al = 160 ?
we obtain the mean density more than three times the superficial density , and a value of el not so nearly coinciding with the observed value as in the former case .
In this case the formula probably gives us a density increasing too rapidly with the depth , and therefore also a too rapid decrease of ellipticity in the surfaces of equal density .
To obtain a value of a , which will satisfy equation ( 3 .
) , we 4 must put a equal to about -a . ? .
Thickness of the Earth 's Crust .
7 .
If the surfaces of equal solidity were coincident with those of equal density , and we adopted the first value of q ' a1 mentioned in the preceding article , we should obtain the effective thickness of the crust ( = a- ) =a= 1000 miles ; or if we 4 -e adopt the other value of q ' a1 as less favourable to a great thickness of the crust , we shall have that thickness = 800 miles .
But the surface of equal solidity through any point must be intermediate between those of equal density or pressure , and of equal temperature through the same point ; and we have seen ( Art .
5 .
) that the ellipticity of the latter increases with the distance from the external surface .
Consequently the ellipticity of every surface of equal solidity must be greater than that of the corresponding surface of equal density , and , therefore , the effective thickness of the crust must be greater than that above determined , in order that it may be consistent with the observed amount of precession .
The thickness of the actually solid portion of the earth 's crust will necessarily be less than what I have termed the effective thickness , but there cannot , I conceive , be any reasonable doubt that the difference between these quantities is small compared with either ; for if r1 be the highest temperature at which any substance retains the property of solidity , and r2 the lowest at which it acquires that of fluidity , r1 is always found to be small compared with , ; and by analogy we conclude that such must be the case also with respect to the matter composing the earth , and under the pressure to which it is subjected at great depths .
We may also remark , that the position of a surface of equal solidity or fluidity must necessarily so far incline to the corresponding surface of equal temperature as to differ materially from that of equal density , so that the real effective thickness of the crust is probably considerably greater than its inferior limit as above determined .
Upon the whole , therefore , we may venture to assert that the minimum thickness of the crust of the globe which can be deemed consistent with the observed amount of precession , cannot be less than one-fourth or one-fifth of the earth 's radius . ? .
Constitution of the Earth 's Crust .
8 .
The results at which we have arrived respecting the thickness of the solid crust of the globe , have an important bearing on our physical theories of volcanic forces , and the mode in which they act , whether we consider the subject with reference to existing volcanos , or to that more general volcanic action to which we refer all the geological phenomena of elevation .
Many speculations respecting actual volcanos have rested on the hypothesis of a direct communication , by means of the volcanic vent , between the surface and the fluid nucleus beneath , assuming the fluidity to commence at a depth little , if at all , greater than that at which the temperature may be fairly presumed to be such as would suffice , under merely the atmospheric pressure , to fuse the matter of the earth 's crust .
When it is proved , however , that that crust must be several hundred miles in thickness , the hypothesis of this direct communication is placed , as I conceive , much too far beyond the bounds of all rational probability to be for an instant admitted as the basis of theoretical speculations .
We are necessarily led , therefore , to the conclusion that the fluid matter of actual volcanos exists in subterranean reservoirs of limited extent , forming subterranean lakes , and not a subterranean ocean .
Such also we conclude from the present thickness of the earth 's crust , must have been the case for enormous periods of time ; and , consequently , that there is a very high degree of probability that the same was true at the epochs of all the great elevations which we recognize , with the exception , perhaps , of the earliest .
If , moreover , we find that the hypothesis of the existence of these subterranean lakes at no great depth beneath the surface , does enable us to account distinctly , by accurate investigations founded on mechanical principles , for the phenomena of elevation and the laws which they follow , then have we all the proof of the truth of our hypothesis which the nature of the case will admit of .
These investigations I have given in my memoir on Physical Geology , published in the sixth volume of the Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society .
The fundamental * Some of the most ingenious and determinate speculations of this kind are contained in a paper by Professor BISCHOFF , in the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal for 1838-39 .
His views respecting the immediate agency by which volcanic action is produced will be equally applicable , whether the reservoir of volcanic matter beneath be of limited extent , or the central nucleus itself .
hypothesis of these investigations is thus found to be in perfect harmony with the results of the remoter researches contained in this and my two preceding memoirs .
9 .
A question here arises as to the origin and continued existence of these insulated fluid masses enveloped in the solid portions of the earth .
It would seem probable , I think , that their origin may be ascribed to the greater fusibility of the matter composing them ; and their continuance in a state of fluidity may , I conceive , be accounted for partly by the same cause , and partly by another which I will proceed to explain .
Let us conceive an internal lake to have been formed as above supposed , or in any other manner , at a temperature which would just admit of the containing rock becoming solid , while it sufficed to preserve the fluid mass in a state of fusion .
Let us then suppose an elevatory force , produced by the expansion of the fluid matter* , to raise the superincumbent solid mass , and to form in it a system of fissures .
The plane of these fissures will scarcely ever be exactly parallel , and therefore will meet if sufficiently produced .
Let the annexed diagram represent a transverse section of Ct ~~~~~~~~~(1 .
) the system the instant after their formation , and before any relative displacement by further elevation , of the portions of the general mass contained between contiguous fissures , and forming so many complete or truncated wedges .
The formation of these fissures will be completed at nearly the same instant of timet .
Conceive the mass to be then still further uplifted .
If every portion were raised equally , the width of the fissures would be increased , but such will not be the case .
For the complete wedges , not reaching down to the fluid mass , will not be immediately acted upon by it at all , and the truncated wedges , whose narrower sides are downwards , will be acted on by the fluid pressure with less force in proportion to their masses , than those of which the broader sides are downwards .
These latter portions , therefore , will be more elevated than the others , and the whole will assume a position like that represented in the following diagram .
When the wedges have assumed these positions , it ... ... .X~~~~~~ _ ~(2 .
) will be impossible for the mass to subside , when the elevatory force shall cease , into that position which it originally occupied .
It will be formed into an arch capable ( if its abutments be sufficiently strong ) of entirely or partially supporting itself .
Consequently , if the cause producing the intumescence of the fluid mass cease to act , and that mass return nearly to its original dimensions , the pressure of the superincumbent solid mass may , in the manner now described , be entirely or partially removed from the fluid .
Hence , assuming that solidification is promoted by great pressure , it evidently appears how a portion of the interior mass might be maintained in a state of fluidity by the removal of a superincumbent pressure , which would otherwise have brought it to a state of solidity .
It is not here essential to suppose that the arch shall entirely support itself .
It may be partly supported by the fluid , beneath , or it may break down in certain points , or along certain lines , and form there new supports , intermediate to the extreme ones .
Instead of one continuous internal lake , a number may thus be formed , connected with each other by more or less obstructed channels of communication , as I have supposed in the exposition of my theoretical views on the Elevation of the Wealden District , recently laid before the Geological Society .
It is the existence of subterranean lakes under this form , which best enables us , as I conceive , to account for the observed phenomena of elevation .
10 .
The above view of the relative displacements of the different portions of an uplifted and disrupted solid mass , as resulting from its geological elevation , is strongly confirmed by its enabling us to account so completely for the law , first recognized by Mr. PHILLIPS , and which I have myself verified in numerous instances , in the relative displacement of the beds on opposite sides of a fault .
In diagram ( 2 .
) we observe that the linef ' g ' is relatively depressed below of , with which it was originally continuous ; i. e. the beds are lowest on that side of the fault towards which the plane of the fault inclines from the vertical in descending .
This precisely accords with the law above alluded to .
It will be observed to hold at each of the faults represented in the diagram , and probably admits of fewer exceptions than almost any other law observable in the phenomena of elevation . ? .
Permanence in the Inclination of the Earth 's Axis .
11 .
To the conclusions above deduced from the investigations of my two preceding memoirs , I may add that of the permanence in the mean inclination of the earth 's axis to the plane of the ecliptic .
This permanence has been frequently insisted on , and is highly important with reference to our speculations on the causes of those changes of superficial temperature which certain geological phenomena seem so unequivocally to indicate .
The proof , however , which has hitherto been given of this , constancy of inclination has rested on the hypothesis of the entire solidity of the globe , an assumption which , whatever may be the actual state of our planet , can never be admitted as necessarily applicable to it at all past epochs of time , at which organic 53 forms may have existed on its surface .
My previous investigations have now demonstrated the truth of this conclusion as applicable to the earth from the first formation of its external solid shell .
All such hypotheses , therefore , as have sometimes been made with respect to a change in the position of the earth 's axis are entirely excluded , whether we suppose the interior of the earth to be now , or to have been heretofore , solid or fluid .
A fact also , in itself not uninteresting , is thus established in the earliest history of our globe .
Nor would it have been possible , I conceive , to arrive at this result by any general considerations immediately derivable from the nature of our problem , and independent of its complete solution .
The investigations contained in my two preceding memoirs were , in fact , commenced under the impression that the solution of this problem of the precession and nutation of the earth 's axis on the hypothesis of the interior fluidity of the earth , would probably lead to results different fro thtose which had been long before obtained on the supposition of the earth 's entire solidity .
This impression was founded on the consideration of the great difference between the direct action of a force on a solid , and that on a fluid mass , in its tendency to produce rotatory motion .
We have seen , in fact , that the disturbing forces of the sun and moon do not tend to produce directly any motion in the interior fluid , in which the rotatory motion causing precession and nutation , is produced indirectly by the effect of the above forces on the position of the soid sshell .
A modification is thus produced in the effects of the centrifugal force , which ( as appears from the results of our investigations ) compensates for the want of any direct effect from the action of the disturbing forces .
This compensation will scarcely , perhaps , be deeined less curious than many of those which have been recognized in the solar system , and by which , amidst apparently conflicting causes , its harmony and permanency are so beautifully preserved . ? .
Condition respecting the Temperature of Fusionfor the matter composing the Eairth , in order that its actual iemperature may be due to its original Heat .
12 .
There is also another conclusion to be drawn from our investigations which it may be worth while to notice .
It has been assumed in these memoirs that pressure is effective in producing solidification ; it has been already remarked , however , that should that not be the case , our conclusions respecting the thickness of the earth 's crust will still , a fortiori , be true .
Our deternmination , therefore , of the least limit to that thickness is independent of this unknown effect of pressure , or , in other words , of the experimental determination of the temperatures of fusion for different substances under high pressures .
With the aid of a proper series of experiments on this point , a direct method of arriving at an approximation to the thickness of the crust of the globe , or rather , to its least limit , might be easily explained .
I shall not here , however , enter into any discussion on this subject .
The conclusion to which I would now direct attention is this the present temperature of the interior of the earth cannot be due to its original heat , if the temperature of fusion for the matter composing , 54 it be independent of the pressure to which the fused matter is subjected .
For if the terrestrial temperature be due to that source , it must undoubtedly be sufficient at the depth of one-fortieth or one-fiftieth of the earth 's radius , to fuse all the rocks composing the superficial solid portion of the globe placed under the atmospheric pressure .
Consequently matter must exist at such depths in a state of fusion , and the crust of the earth must be extremely thin , unless its solidification has been promoted by pressure .
I have shown , however , that the crust of the globe cannot be very thin , and therefore the truth of our proposition is manifest .
There is also another mode , independent of our results respecting precession , by which we arrive at the same conclusion .
Making the assumption just stated respecting the origin of the actual terrestrial heat , there is no doubt of its being immensely greater at the earth 's centre than that which would be necessary to reduce the matter composing the earth 's surface , under the atmospheric pressure , to a state of fusion .
It would probably reduce a large portion of it to a state of vapour .
Now this actual central temperature must necessarily be at least something less than that which existed at the time of the earth 's incipient solidification , whether the solidification commenced at the centre or surface ( Mem. I. ) .
If it began at the centre it must have been owing to the predominance of pressure in promoting solidification over high temperature in opposing it , and the truth of our proposition is therefore involved in this hypothesis .
Again , suppose the solidification to have commenced at the surface .
In this case it has been shown ( Mem. I. ) that the whole mass would arrive at that state in which the fluidity would just become imperfect , at nearly the same time .
The superficial temperature would then be just that of perfect fusion under the atmospheric pressure for the matter constituting the earth 's surface , which , as just stated , must be small compared with the actual central temperature , and , a fortiori , small compared with the central temperature at the epoch referred to .
Consequently , at that epoch , the central and superficial parts of the earth , under widely different temperatures , would have the same degree of fluidity , viz. that at which it just became imperfect , or that at which the component particles would cease to move among themselves in the process of cooling .
If then rl denote the temperature of perfect fusion for a point of the earth 's mass at any depth beneath its surface ( or the temperature at which the mass would there acquire perfect fluidity ) , rl must be some function of the pressure at the proposed point .
Also let r2 denote the temperature of incipient fusion at the same point ( or that at which the matter then under the same pressure would just lose its property of solidity ) , then the question is , whether r2 be a function of rl or not .
Now that there should be some necessary relation between r , and r2 would scarcely seem to admit the possibility of a doubt .
But in such case r2 , being a function of rl , must depend on the pressure .
Hence it follows , as before , that the temperature of fusion of the earth 's mass must depend on the pressure to which it is subjected , assuming always that the fusibility of the matter composing the central portion of the globe is not extremely different from that which constitutes its surface .
55

