543 On the Fossil Flora of the Forest Dean Coalfeld ( shire ) , and the Relationships of the Coalfields of the West of England and South Wales .
By E. A. Newell Arber , M.A. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. , Trinity College , Cambridge , University Demonstrator in Pakeobotany .
( Communicated by Prof. T. McKenny Hughes , F.R.S. Received November 18 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read February 1 , 1912 .
) ( Abstract .
) Very little has been previously recorded of the flora of the Forest of Dean coalfield , and in the present paper the results of a thorough examination of the flora , and of the vertical distribution of the plants in the three divisions of the productive measures of this coalfield , are discussed .
In all 44 species are described , none of which , however , are new to Britain , though some are rare plants elsewhere .
The list of species , which have been collected chiefly by the aid of grants from the Royal Society Government Grant Committee , is as follows :\#151 ; Equisetales\#151 ; Catamites varians Sternb .
; C. ramosus Artis .
; C. Brongn .
; C. undulatus ?
Sternb .
Calamoctadus equisetiformis ( Schloth .
) .
Annularia radiata ?
( Brongn .
) ; A. stellata ( Schloth .
) ; A. galioides ( L. and H. ) ; A. sphenophylloides ( Zenker ) .
Calamostachys tuberculata ( Sternb .
) .
Macrostachya infundxbuliformis ( Brongn .
) .
Sphenophyllales\#151 ; Sphenophyllum emarginatumBrongn .
; magus ( Bronn ) .
Pteridosperme , e and Filicales\#151 ; Sphenopteris neuropteroides ( Boulay ) ; S. ( ) ( Brongn .
) .
Mariopterismuricata ( Schloth .
) ; M. latifolia ?
( Brongn .
) .
Neuropteris scheuehzeri Hoffm .
; i\T .
Brongn .
; N. ovata Hoffm .
; N. rarinervis Bunb .
; iY .
{ CyclopteHs ) fimbriata Lesq .
Alethopteris aquilina ( Schloth .
) ; A. ( Brongn .
) ; A. davreuxi ( Brongn .
) .
Pecopteris miltoni ( Artis .
) ; P. polyBrongn .
; P. arborescens ?
( Schloth .
) ; P. ( Dactylotheca ) plumosa ( Artis .
) .
Mr. E. A. Newell Arber .
On the [ Nov. 18 , Semina incests sedis\#151 ; Trigonocarpus nceggerathi ( Sternb .
) .
Lycopodiales\#151 ; Lepidodendron lanceolatumLesq .
; L. Sternb .
; L. Lesq .
; L. dichotomum Sternb .
Lepidophloios cf. L. laricinusSternb .
Lepidophyllum majus Brongn .
; L. breLesq .
SigillariaIcevigata Brongn .
; S. elonBrongn .
; rugosa Brongn .
; S. trigona Sternb .
; S. tessellata(Sternb .
) ; brardi Brongn .
var .
denudata ( Gcepp ) .
CORDAITALES\#151 ; Cordaites angulososlriatusGrand ' Eury .
The floras of the three divisions of the productive measures in the Forest of Dean are compared , and it is found that they are practically identical .
All three divisions belong to the palseobotanical horizon known as the Upper Coal Measures .
It is shown that there is a marked agreement between the flora of the Forest of Dean and the Upper Coal Measure floras of other British coalfields , though the following species which occur in the Forest have not previously been recorded from this horizon elsewhere :\#151 ; Annularia galioides ( L. and H. ) .
Sphenophyllummajus ( Bronn ) .
Mariopteris latifolia ?
( Brongn .
) .
Lepidodendron dichotomum Sternb .
Sigillaria rugosa Brongn .
; S. trigona Sternb .
; S. brardi Brongn .
var .
denudata(Goepp ) .
The flora of the Forest of Dean is contrasted with those of the neighbouring coalfields .
As compared with the Radstock flora , there is found to be a general agreement , though there are important differences in detail , which are more marked than those which exist between the known floras of Radstock and Bristol .
These differences , however , do not appear to indicate any considerable disagreement as regards the horizon , for the percentage of Stephanian plants present is approximately the same in each case .
They are best explained as local variations in the distribution of the flora of the period .
The horizon of the so-called Millstone Grits , below the Upper Coal Measures and above the Carboniferous Limestone , is discussed .
Reasons are advanced in support of the view that the Upper Coal Measures of the Forest overlie unconformably the so-called Millstone Grits , which in reality are the 1911 .
] Fossil Flora of the Forest of Dean Coalfield .
higher beds of the Carboniferous Limestone series , which here have an arenaceous facies .
True Millstone Grits , as well as Lower , Middle , and Transition Coal Measures , are absent in the Forest of Dean .
The relationships of this coalfield to the neighbouring coalfields of the West of England and South Wales are discussed from the palaeobotanical standpoint .
It is found that the Forest of Dean basin exhibits no obvious relationship , either to the South Wales or to the Radstock-Bristol coalfields .
The Pennant Grits of South Wales belong to a lower horizon than the markedly arenaceous series ( the " Forest of Dean stone " ) of the third division of the Forest .
The Radstock-Bristol and Forest of Dean basins are believed to be related tectonically , though not to the main axes of South Wales and the Mendips , but to a secondary cognate uplift , stretching north and south , and approximating to the valley of the Severn .
On the other hand the Forest of Dean does not appear to be related to the Welsh borderland series of coalfields , stretching from Uewent to Shrewsbury .
In the case of the Forest of Dean , it seems evident that the Lower Carboniferous rocks and the Old Red Sandstones of the area remained elevated above sea level , and were denuded until the beginning of Upper Coal Measure times , whereas in South Wales depression and deposition set in in Middle Coal Measure times , and in the Radstock-Bristol area during the Transition Coal Measure period .
Thus , on the palseobotanical evidence , the relationships of the coalfields of the West of England and South Wales have proved to be more complex than has hitherto been supposed , and this appears to be due in part at least to the coincidence of three distinct axes of elevation in the neighbourhood of the Forest of Dean .

