354 Mr. F. H. A. Marshall .
The ( Estrous Cycle and [ Feb. 17 , true order of events .
The haustoria have been formed by the hyphse , and figures are given showing every stage in their development .
The first haustorium may be formed by the infecting tube immediately after its penetration through the stoma , and figures are given showing the remains of the germ-tube outside a stoma , the swelling of its tip over the stoma into an appressorium , the passage through the stomatal cavity , and its development into a vesicular swelling whence the true infection tube arises , which latter may at once put forth a haustorium .
In some cases all these latter phenomena are visible in one and the same preparation .
The author expresses his thanks to Miss E. Dale , of Girton College , for valuable aid during the later stages of the work , in the embedding and cutting of numerous sections .
" The ( Estrous Cycle and the Formation of the Corpus Luteum in the Sheep .
" By Feancis H. A. Maeshall , B.A. Communicated by Professor J. 0 .
Ewart , F.E.S. Beceived February 17 , \#151 ; Bead March 12 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) Introduction.\#151 ; A preliminary account of this investigation was communicated to the Boyal Society in 1901 , and published in the Proceedings for that year .
Subsequently the work has been carried further , and recently brought to a conclusion .
The Estrous Cycle.\#151 ; In Scotch black-faced sheep the length of the sexual season is shown to vary with the locality , both in regard to the number of dioestrous cycles in a season , and to the duration of each cycle .
It is shown further that there is a perfect gradation between the monoestrous condition of some wild sheep to the extreme polyoestrum of certain Merinos .
Superficial Phenomena of Procestrum and OEstrus.\#151 ; The prooestrum is marked by a mucous or sanguineo-mucous flow .
It is very rapidly succeeded by oestrus ( the period of desire ) , the two periods frequently seeming to occur simultaneously , but this is because of the abbreviation of the process .
The Histology of the Uterus during the Dioestrous Cycle.\#151 ; The changes through which the sheep 's uterus passes during a single dioestrous cycle can be divided into four groups or periods , as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Period of rest ; ( 2 ) Period of growth and increase of vessels ; ( 3 ) Period of breaking down of vessels and extravasation of blood ; ( 4 ) Period of recuperation and pigment formation .
Bleeding into the uterine cavity and at the external genital aperture does not always 1903 .
] Formation of the Corpus Luteum the .occur .
The extravasated blood retained in the mucosa forms pigment , the change being effected by the agency of leucocytes , as supposed by Bonnet , but not by Kazzander .
But the extravasation occurs in the superficial part of the mucosa .
Miniature lacunae are sometimes formed after extravasation .
The severity of the prooestrous process tends to diminish with each successive dicestrous cycle in a season .
There is never any removal of stroma and not necessarily of epithelium .
The facts recorded render the homology between the dioestrous cycle in the sheep and the menstrual cycle of the Primates very probable , while further statements regarding the author 's researches on the ferret , with which the prooestrum in regard to severity is intermediate between that of the sheep and menstruation in monkeys , afford additional evidence of the identity of the two processes .
Ovulation , with Notes on the Atretic Follicle and the Causes of Barrenness.\#151 ; Ovulation can occur spontaneously at any cestrous ( or pro-cestrous ) period with Scotch black-faced sheep , excepting at certain cestri outside the regular sexual season , when the additional stimulation supplied by coition may be necessary .
In the ferret , ovulation does not occur in the absence of coition , without which the follicles undergo atresia .
In the sheep , atresia is commonest in follicles of about one-eighth to one-half the dimensions of the mature follicles .
When it occurs with any considerable frequency , it must affect the barrenness percentage in subsequent breeding seasons .
The atretic follicle differs from the developing corpus luteum in the absence of any discharge to the exterior , the membrana granulosa degenerating and disappearing prior to any considerable ingrowth from the connective tissue wall .
The Formation of the Carpus Luteum\#151 ; The lutein cells are derived from the membrana granulosa , while the connective tissue element is supplied by the proliferation and ingrowth of the thecae interna and externa , as described in the preliminary communication .
Leucocytes are abundant , especially at the sixteen-hour stage of development , but these disappear in later stages without giving rise to connective tissue as described by Sobotta .
The cavity of the discharged follicle is filled in by the further ingrowth of connective tissue .

