]\gt ; Prof. J. Perry .
[ May 12 , If the law connecting A and I is known , it is possible to calculab from ( 1 ) , and then substituting for I in each of the circuit each of the currents is known .
Instead of being the electromotive force in a complete circuit , it may be the potential difference maintained at the of a circuit and the letter will then be used , the resistance between the minals being .
If or has any value , the circuit is called a primary circnit .
When no independent elecbromotive force is maintained in a circuit , it is called a secondary circuit .
II .
Substitution of one coil for two or more : is evident from the way in which ( 1 ) is derived , that instead of a primary coil and a secondary , if we substitute a primary and if and also if then the currents in all the other coils will be the same as before .
We can therefore replace a primary and any group of by one primary coil .
It is also evident that if any group of secondaries , , \amp ; c. , be replaced by one secondary such that , all the other currents will remain as before .
It is , in fact , evident that if for groups of primaries and we substitute one primary coil of suitable potential difference at its terminals and resistance and number of turns , all the currents in the emaining coils will remaill the same .
If two secondaries of numbers of turns and and internal resistances and have the same terminals , and together current to an outside circuit , for them we may substitute one secondary of turns and internal resistance ohms with a permanent short circuit of resistance between its terminals , if , and Hence no good results can be expected from compound winding .
If , instead of requiring a perfect similarity in all respects , we a substitution which is almost absolutely perfect in practical we can obtain it by the use of a single coil with no short cirouit outside , and therefore without the excessive waste of power whioh occurs when two coils of different numbers of tnrns are This last resuIt is obtained by regarding A as a negligible in ( 1 ) .
Two coils in parallel to one another , used as a primary or cond , , will evidently waste energy in idle cnrrents inside the former unless they are exactly equal in their numbers of turns .
ITI .
If condensers are connected with any of the reuits 458 Prof. J. Perry .
[ May 12 , solenoids in centimetres .
The curve which on squared paper trates the magnetic law is a straight line , and I 2 .
If the curve is not a straight line , that , if there some in .
dication of saturation , and there generally is some saturation the induction per square centimetre exceeds ( or 2000 C.G.S. lnits ) , it will be found that a good approximation actual facts is obtained by assuming that when I where , a constant , and is any quantity which increases continuously .
Thus it will be found that taking only one harmonic , gives a close approximationto what may be the actual case in problems .
Taking two harmonics , and , gives a better result .
There is no hysteresis in such cases .
3 .
If the curve is a simple hysteresis loop such as may be obtained in slowly-performed cyclic magnetisation , on the assumption that , one of my students , Mr. Fowler , has found A in terms of , , \amp ; c. , a rather complicated expression whioh I need not give .
But another student , Mr. Field , finds that the proximation } is sufficiently accurate for many purposes of calculation if and However complicated the law may be , it can be expressed in the shaps : then to the term in I there correspond the terms in sin5 \amp ; c Our first assumption of constant permeability applied to a trans former with one pl.imary and many secondaries causes equation ( 1 ) to become , and hence I will , for sake of illustration , consider a 1500-watt transformer , which is a specimen of many in use .
One primary coil ohms , turns .
Internal resistance of the one secondary ooil ohm , turns .
ffective primary potential ence voIts or .
Frequency about 95 per second , or square centimetres , centimetns It will be found that the highest value of , the induction per centimetre , is ( or 2755 C.G.S. units ) .
If there are condensers , nor self-inductions , nor magnetic leakage , if 2000 ( it will not much affect our results to take or ) , then ; if is no load on the transformer and if there is full load , when ohms , .
It evident from these numbers that in practical cases is the same as .
Neglecting the 1 means neglecting an alteration of of the amplitude and a lag of of a degree .
see in this case neglecting the term A in equation ( 1 ) iS 460 Prof. J. Perl.y .
IIay 1 .
Assuming to be , I give the values of I for various values of VI .
Currents.\mdash ; There is eddy curl.ent loss of power in the conducting masses near a transformer .
If we assume that the induction per square centimetre is the same everywhere , and if it follows the ( in C.G.S. units ) , the average power in watts wasted in eddy currents in the iron per cubic centimetre is , if the specific resistance of iron is taken to be .
The iron is snpposed to be of wire of radius centimetres .
The average power wasted in the iron is less at high being inversely proportional to the specific resistance of the iron .
Itis evidently proportional to the square of the effective primary voltage in the unloaded transformer , but , of course , magnetic leakage cansss a diminution the transformer is loaded .
In fact , the eddy current loss is always proportional to the square of the effective electromotive force in the secondary circuit .
In applying rule , it is to be remembered that the induction is not uniform in ; section of a , nor is he average induction in each wire the for all the wires , and therefore the real loss of power in the iron by eddy currents is always greater than the result of above formula .
* If we assume that one secondary circuit closed upon itself represents all the eddy current circuits , assuming the truth of the above formula is same as no magnetic leakage between the primary and this eddy cul.rent circuit .
Assuming gnetic gives the correct result , which is practically that the is greater in wires near the surface of the mass of iron it is internally , and also that the induction is greater near the of each wire .
April 29 , have often the importance of the ideration of the want of uniform of induction in the iron ; but even in last , I brought it before a meeting of the tion of Electrical eers , it looked upon as tant , and I had made no which lvonld to prove its .
The tions of J. J. omson concsrning eddy cllrrents in thin plates , published in ' The Electrician ' of Apri18 , 1892 , the marter beyond doubt .
] 2 ransformers .
[ May 12 , results which seem to be in accordauce with such experimental observations as have yet been made .
The effective current ( if is the effective voltage ) with constant permeability is ; ith hysteresis ( or with no hysteresis but some saturation of the iron ) bnt no eddy rents , , taking as ; ffith eddy currsnts and ysteresis , The average powor given to the choking coil or erage value .
of is , neglecting the small terms due to and Probably , in transformers there are always traces the term in ski and the higher harmonics in both and , but they certainly must exist in either or I , whebher the transformer is ; or unloaded .
In the loaded transformer , magnetic leakage causes considerable diminution in the higher harmonics of I , and this may increase them in V. It seems that in a choking coil with a finely-divided iron core , we have found what has been long looked for , a metl ) of increasing frequency by mere magnetic means .
A condenser shunting a noninductive part of the circuit would receive currents in which the higher harmonics would be greatly magnified in importance .
To show the magnitude of the terms in I will take the above-mentioned 1500-watt transformer , in which .
Taking or no hysteresis , the power wasted in eddy rents being let this be 40 watts ; then when .
The eddy current coil therefore which wouId replace all the eddy curreut circuits is a coil of two turns whose resistance is about ohms , short circuited on itseIf .
if .
Assnming constant permeability and no eddy currents and no hysteresis , with some saturation and eddy currents but no hysteresis I have taken and The primary potential difference is never a simple sine functionof the time .
Besides the important term in there are small terms ( of higher frequency , and at least one term of lower frequency equal to the number of turns of the armature per second .
The tendency of the forces acting on coils in series on all armature is to produce greater dissonance at greater loads , bnt it may be assumed that in good machines the fastenings are sufficiently rigid , and the ] and pole pieces so nearIy alike , that there is always very little sonance .
The primary potential difference , instead of being 2828 sin600 in the above case , may be Number of Feltows elected into the Society .
463 the eflective potential difference , as measured by a voltmeter , being the same in the two cases .
The induction , if there is no magnetic leakage , will be , the term which was so insignificant , which had only of the importance of the most important term in practically estimating the rolts , is now greater than what is usually taken to be the greatest term when we come to deal with the actual induction .
Magnetic Ieakage will not much affccb this condition of things , but it will greatly diminish the importance of the higher harmonics .
When experimenters say that they keep the primary volts constant , they mean that they keep the effective primary volts constant .
It is obvious from tke above considerations that different methods of keeping volts constant will produc.e very different kinds of induction .
The effects produced by an exciting curren6 in a choking coil or unloaded transformer are evidently very complicated .
Let the dynamo have a perfectly pure simple harmonic law of electromotive force ; we have seen that even when no hysteresis is assumed , the currsnt will possess large harmonics and the induction possesses corresponding harmonics .
The energy wasted in the creation of these harmonics may be called ' hysteresis\ldquo ; loss , but it canIlot be altogether the same as the hysteresis loss in slowly-performed cycles of magnetisation ; it will be different if the dynamo does not follow a simple harmonic Iaw in its electromotive force , and the apportioning of the small higher harmonics to the primary voltage and to the induotion must greatly depend upon the self-induction of the dynamo machine . .
" " On the probable Effcct of tho Limitation of the Number of Ordinary Fellows elected into the Royal Society to Fifteen in each Year on the total Number of Fellows By Lieut.-General R. STRACHEY , , F.R.S. Received Apri113 , 1892 .
The cussions that arose in connoction with the ision of the of the Royal Society during the years 1890 and 1891 , led me to endeavour to obtain definite data on which to found a trustworthy opinion as to the effect of the existing limitation of the number of yearly admissions , on the eventual total strength of the , and the probable of increasing the Ilumber beyond fifteen , the present limit .
The facts bearing on this subject , so far as I have been able to

