17 1887 .
] The Reputed Suicide of Scorpions .
condition had formerly been regarded as portions of separate scutes .
This unique specimen shows Polacanthus to have possessed a more complete dermal armature than any other Dinosaur yet described .
The pelvis is more fully described than was possible in 1881 , and in particular the form and direction of the ischian arch shown to be different from those obtaining in the Iguanodont family .
II .
" The Reputed Suicide of Scorpions .
" By Alfred G. Bourne , D.Sc .
, Fellow of University College , London , and Professor of Biology in the Presidency College , Madras .
Communicated by Professor Ray Lankester , F.R.S. Received December 22 , 1886 .
The legend that a scorpion when placed within a ring of red-hot embers will , after making futile efforts to pass the fiery circle which surrounds it , deliberately kill itself by inflicting a wound with its sting in its own head is said to emanate from Spain , and is of considerable antiquity : it has been , moreover , attested by very high authority .
The phenomenon would , however , be so extraordinary that its occurrence has been much doubted .
Did it happen , it would stand as Romanes* says " as a unique case of an instinct detrimental alike to the individual and to the species .
" The subject has within recent years attracted a considerable amount of attention , and numerous conflicting statements based both upon incidental observations and upon definite experiments have been from time to time recorded .
Surgeon-General Bidie of Madras has describedf an experiment where he concentrated the sun 's rays with a burning glass upon the back of a scorpion , which thereupon stung itself and died .
Dr. Allen Thomson^ also brings forward corroborative evidence as to the effect of rays of light .
Mr. Gillman described experiments made with a circle of glowing charcoal in which he states that the scorpions died from their own sting .
Mr. R. F. Hutchinson S pointed out that the animals experimented upon by Mr. Gillman died from the excessive heat .
Mr. Gillman , however , subsequently pointed out that the temperature in the centre of such a circle of glowing charcoal as he used does not exceed 50 ' C. Mr. Curran S tried the same experiment " a score of times , " and # * Animal Intelligence , ' p. 225 .
f * Nature , ' yoI .
11 .
t * Nature , ' vol. 20 .
S ' Nature , ' vol. 21 .
VOL. XLII .
C 18 Dr. A. G. Bourne .
[ Jan. 13 , " never saw the phenomenon so graphically delineated by Byron .
" A would-be humorous anonymous correspondent writing at the same time summed up the subject thus : " Can a man pummel his own back ?
Can a horse kick its own belly ?
But the feat attributed to the scorpion , apart from its moral obliquity , is physically even more triumphant .
" , Mr. Lloyd Morgan* tried a great many methods of tormenting scorpions with the view of inducing them to commit suicide , but in no single case did they attempt to do so .
Lastly , Ray Lankesterf noticed when killing a scorpion funestus)with chloroform vapour in a glass box that it made " repeated blows with its sting in a straight-forward direction above its head , " and at last one blow was so ill-directed as to cause the sting to catch under the free projecting margin of the posterior region of the cephalic shield .
There was no laceration in this case , but it was evident there might have been .
Lankester states that it is important to note the species observed in connexion with this question .
Suicide may occur in some species , but not in others .
He also suggested to me that I should ascertain whether the scorpion is ' immune ' in regard to its own poison , as Fayrer states to be the case with certain poisonous snakes .
At least three species of scorpion occur here\#151 ; a large black one , which is probably JButhus Kochii , a smaller lighter-coloured one , and a very small red one .
I hope to determine these accurately later on .
In the meantime I have tried a very large and varied series of experiments upon their stinging powers with the following results : \#151 ; 1 .
There can be no doubt that it is physically possible for a scorpion to sting itself in a vulnerable place .
2 .
When a scorpion is placed in very unpleasant circumstances it not unfrequently lashes its tail about and causes actual penetration of the sting , as in the case observed by Dr. Bidie .
3 .
The poison of a scorpion is quite powerless to kill the same individual or another individual of the same or even of another species .
4 .
The poison is very rapidly fatal to a Thelypbonus , less rapidly so to a spider , and much less rapidly so to an insect .
5 .
Two scorpions when fighting repeatedly sting one another with little if any effect , the stronger kills the weaker by actually pulling it to pieces with its chelicerse .
6 .
Scorpions cannot stand even a dry temperature much above 50 ' C. , but fall into a sort of " heat coma , " and soon die if the temperature is raised .
* ' Nature , ' vol. 27 .
f ' Linn. Soc. Journ. , Zool. , ' vol. 16 .
1887 .
] The Reputed Suicide of Scorpions .
19 I will briefly describe the experiments which have led to the above results .
1 .
If a dead scorpion be taken which is quite limp and not in a state of rigour , it will be easily seen that the last four segments of the tail are about the only portions of the body , whether on the dorsal or ventral surface , where a scorpion could not sting itself .
Further , if two fighting scorpions be watched it will be seen that the extent to which the sting can be moved about is perfectly wonderful .
2 .
I have tried the experiment with a charcoal fire , with a burning glass , and indeed a variety of other " cruel " means of leading the scorpion to despair , and to attempt to end all by suicide , and have noticed that in lashing the tail about scorpions so treated have stung themselves .
To take the burning glass experiment , if the rays be concentrated on any part of the body the scorpion brings his sting there and endeavours to strike away the source of irritation ( I have seen a scorpion do this from whom I had removed the whole sting some weeks previously ) , and sometimes the endeavours become more and more frantic , and the .
point of the sting catches somewhere , but the scorpion does not die unless the heat is concentrated on the back when it soon succumbs , and this equally so even with the sting tied down or previously removed .
3 .
Upon the third proposition , which , if once established , is a conclusive and positive refutation of the suicide theory , I have tried a great many experiments .
I have taken scorpions belonging to the various species found here , and by holding the sting between a pair of forceps and the scorpion in my hand I have pricked the scorpion in various places with the sting and squeezed out its poison ; there is a little bleeding from the wound .
Then still holding the sting I have taken a cockroach and squeezed out some more of the poison into it , and always with these results : the scorpion lives for days , the cockroach becomes very sluggish at once , and dies in an hour or so ; it is always considerably paralysed , and cannot run away far or fast .
I have also used a large cricket instead of a cockroach stung in the femur of the large hind leg ; that leg becomes paralysed .
Stung in the same place on both sides both the hind legs become useless j the animal crawls away on the two anterior pairs of legs , but otherwise appears happy .
Stung in the thorax it becomes quite torpid ; when placed on its back it is not able to turn over .
These last experiments show that my method of squeezing out the poison is perfectly effective .
I then proceeded to try stinging one scorpion with another ; firstly , both being specimens of the same species ; secondly , using different species .
There was always the same result , the stung individual never died from the sting , although I think that occasionally it became a trifle sluggish .
20 Dr. A. G. Bourne .
[ Jan. 13 , 4 .
After considerable search I procured some specimens of Thely-phonus , which I chose as being the nearest relatives of the scorpions .
I stung these in my usual method , and in each case they died within six seconds .
I then tried some spiders ; they died in a few minutes , when well stung .
The action on cockroaches and crickets is described above .
The equally rapid local but slower general action in these latter animals is probably to be explained by the very inefficient circulation of the blood in insects as compared with Arachnida .
It would be an interesting experiment to sting a Limuhis , and compare the effect with that on a crustacean , and with that on other Arachnida .
5 .
While keeping a quantity of scorpions together in captivity it is not difficult to induce a couple to fight .
I isolated such a couple , and they fought on and off for two days , during which time each repeatedly stung the other .
The scorpions face one another , and the more powerful manages to hold the other 's chelae within its own with a sort of hugging action ; it then fights with its chelicerae , clawing about the region of the mouth .
A strong scorpion will actually tear out the chelicera of a small one in this manner ; it then proceeds to suck the blood and juices .
On another occasion I separated from one another two scorpions which had been fighting , and which had repeatedly stung one another .
They lived perfectly well .
6 .
Apropos of Mr. Gillman 's remarks about the actual temperature to which the scorpion is subjected in the " fiery circle , " I tried this experiment .
I placed a scorpion and a cockroach ( for comparison ) in an incubator with glass sides ; I gave them a piece of wood to walk about upon , and gradually raised the temperature .
At 40 ' C. both seemed uncomfortable , the cockroach performed a sort of licking-action on all its legs and antennas ; at 45 ' C. the scorpion became very sluggish , and at 50 ' C. it was nearly dead .
A large furious-scorpion before the experiment , it now lay on its back and did not attempt to get up .
I took it out and gave it a cold bath , and put it in a cool earthenware vessel , and it gradually ( two hours ) recovered .
The cockroach I left in the incubator till the temperature-reached 52 ' C. ; when it was nearly dead I took it out , and it very gradually recovered .
To try the effect of a wet heat I placed a scorpion and a cockroach in water at 43 ' C. , and they both died almost immediately , whereas they would both have lived in cold water for hours .
In conclusion , I think we can understand how various observers have been led to form conflicting opinions , but I think we may safely assert that scorpions do not commit suicide .
There is not only an absence of proof that they possess any instinct to do so , but absolute proof that it is chemically impossible for them to do so\#151 ; at any rate , in the species which I have examined .
The immunity of the scorpion 1887.J The Reputed Suicide of Scorpions .
from any injurious influence after inoculation with its own poison is merely a further example of a principle already established by Sir Joseph Fayrer 's experiments , * which show conclusively that the cobra poison will not affect a cobra , and will not even affect the viperine Ptyas .
Postscript .
Having received some criticisms and suggestions from Professor Ray Lankester with regard to the above record of experiments , I have made the following additional observations:\#151 ; 1 .
It appears to have been stated that enclosure in a circle of oil , or enclosure under an inverted tumbler , will cause a scorpion to commit suicide .
I placed a scorpion on a plate within a ring of cocoa-nut oil .
It calmly walked through .
( This calls to mind Sir Kenelm Digby 's experiment with a spider placed in the centre of a circle made of powdered " unicorn 's horn .
" Contrary to Sir Ivenelm 's prediction when this experiment was made before the Royal Society on 24th July , 1661 , the spider , as recorded in the Society 's register , " immediately ran out several times repeated .
The spider once made some stay upon the powder .
" ) I placed another scorpion on a plate , and round the edge a thick roll of rag dripping with lcerosine oil .
The scorpion walked out over the rag .
I further daubed the scorpion with the oil : it appeared uncomfortable , but did nothing remarkable .
The experiment with an inverted tumbler was made and gave the same negative result .
With regard to the method of " squeezing out " the poison .
In all my experiments I catch hold of the sting with a pair of forceps or in my fingers and press the poison out .
It is quite easy to press out a little drop of milky white fluid which has a very pungent smell resembling that of formic acid .
As to the parts of the body in which two scorpions when fighting sting one another , I have observed that the sting is most usually inflicted under the front edge of the carapace , or between the joints of the great chelee , and sometimes near the bases of the other legs .
I have constantly satisfied myself of the actual penetration of the sting .
I am also perfectly convinced that the scoi'pions so stung do not in any way suffer from the poison .
As to the position of the artificial stinging carried out by me , I took especial care in all cases to avoid mechanical injury to the nerve ganglia .
Thus in my notes I find " Scorpion A made artificially to sting Scorpion B in three places under the cephalothorax ; no cessation of activity .
" Again , " Thelyphonus A stung artificially in mid-dorsal line between two abdominal somites .
The animal which was very active drew in his legs rigidly , and died in ten seconds .
" " Thely-* ' The Tlianatophidia of India .
' Prof. J. C. Adams .
On [ Jan. 13 , phonus B stung in same manner withi same results .
" Again , " Cockroach .
stung between abdominal terga .
" " Cricket stung in third leg , that leg became paralysed ; leg removed with scissors , and the animal became quite active .
" " Gryllotalpa stung in one thigh , leg paralysed at once ; stung in opposite thigh , same result .
Other legs moving , turns over when placed on his back and crawls about .
Stung now in thorax ( dorsally ) , quite paralysed ; moves jaws , but will not turn over .
" I have made experiments with simple puncture for control\#151 ; that is without introduction of scorpion poison .
Using large insects for these experiments I obtained complete freedom from ill-effects when using simple puncture , whilst the same species of insects when punctured with introduction of scorpion poison were instantly paralysed and died in half an hour .
I also procured two small shore crabs .
One I punctured between two joints of the great chela of one side ; several drops of blood exuded , but they coagulated , and the crab remained well .
The second I stung in the same place with scorpion 's sting , squeezing it to ensure poisoning .
The claw was immediately .
paralysed , and the crab gradually became torpid , and died in less than an hour .
III .
" Supplementary Note on the Values of the Napierian Logarithms of 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , and 10 , and of the Modulus of Common Logarithms .
" By Professor J. C. Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. , Loundsean Professor of Astronomy and Geometry in the University of Cambridge .
Received December 30 , 1886 .
In vol. 27 of the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' pp. 88\#151 ; 94j I have given the values of the logarithms referred to , and of the Modulus , all carried to 260 places of decimals .
These .
logarithms were derived from the five quantities a , c , cl , e , which were calculated independently , where , 10 7 , 25 , 81 , , 50 , a = log \#151 ; , b = log _ , c = log \#151 ; , ^ = !
og \#151 ; , and e log 125 ' and a complete test of the accuracy of these latter calculations is afforded by the equation of condition a \#151 ; 26 + c = d+ 2e .
In the actual case the values found for b , c , d , e satisfied this equation to 263 places of decimals .
Although this proved that the values of the logarithms found in the above paper had been determined with a greater degree of accuracy

