286 Prof. A. Gray and Mr. A. Wood .
Effect of a [ Mar. 12 plane mirror is set at right angles to the optic axis in the princina focus of a cylindrical lens .
Between the lens and the eye a plate o unsilvered glass is placed at such an angle as to reflect the rayj from some distant object through the lens on to the mirror , whence the^ are reflected once more through the lens into the eye .
The unsilvem reflection is not necessary if the eye is held at some considerably distance from the lens .
In such an arrangement the image is not enantiomorphic , the effect of the cylindrical lens-system being neutralised by that of the mirror , but the image rotates when the lent is rotated exactly as in an ordinary cylindrical telescope , and the plane of polarisation is not affected by the rotation .
On the Effect of a Magnetic Field on the Pate of Subsidence of Torsional Oscillations in Wires of Nickel and Iron , and the Changes Produced by Drawing and Annealing .
" By Professor Andrew Gray , F.E.S. , and Alexander Wood , B.Sc. Received March 12 , \#151 ; Read March 17 , 1904 .
On May 15th , 1902 , we communicated to the Royal Society a paper entitled " On the Effect of a Longitudinal Magnetic Field on the Internal Viscosity of Nickel and Iron , as shown by Change of the Rate of Subsidence of dorsional Oscillations .
" We described in that paper the results of experiments on the rates of subsidence of torsional oscillations in nickel and iron wires in fields of different strengths , and showed that the effect of the field , or , more properly , of the magnetisation of the wire , is to increase the rate of subsidence in nickel and to diminish it in iron .
In nickel , it was pointed out , this effect rose to a maximum at a certain field , from 100\#151 ; 180 C.G.S. , according to the initial amplitude , and thereafter diminished as the field was increased ; while in iron the effect was in the main all produced at a field of about 160 C.G.S. or rather less , and increased only slightly with further increase of field intensity .
The experiments described in the present paper are referred to at the end of the former one as in progress , and some account of their results is given ; and we propose now to describe them a little more in detail .
Experiments on the Effect of Drawing Down and of Annealing a Nickel Hire.\#151 ; A piece of the nickel ware formerly experimented on was tested for subsidence in the manner already described , and then drawn down , by being passed through a draw plate , from the diameter 1'4 mm. to 0-775 mm. The results are illustrated by fig. 1 .
Take first curve I of that figure .
It has for ordinates the differences between 904 ] Magnetic Field on Torsional- Oscillations , etc. 287 ; he amplitudes at a given stage in the course of the subsidence with arious fields , and the amplitudes at the same stage in the subsidence dth zero field .
The stage chosen was in each case the instant after he completion of the fortieth vibration after the attainment of the aitial amplitude indicated on the curve .
The abscissae are galvanoGalv .
deflections .
meter deflections and are proportional to the fields : each unit of deflection means a field of 15'54 C.G.S. units .
Curve I shows the effects of the various fields on the wire as it was received from the makers .
The wire was then hardened by being drawn down as described ; and it was then found that no ettect of magnetisation on subsidence was perceptible .
The nickel wire was next annealed by heating it to a bright red heat 288 Prof. A. Gray and Mr. A. Wood .
Effect of a [ Mar. 1 and then plunging it into cold water ; when it was found to he soft* than it was originally .
For the original wire , for example , the moduhhl of rigidity was 7*97 x 10 C.G.S. , for the wire as drawn down i was 8-06 x 10 C.G.S. , and for the annealed wire it was 7*81 x 1 C.G.S. Curve II is the curve for the annealed wire corresponding t curve I , that is , showing the differences after forty oscillations ( the amplitudes of oscillation of the wire under the various field and the amplitude with zero field .
The latter amplitude it is to b remembered was the greater .
After annealing and re-drawing had been performed in succession the wire gave curve III , and its rigidity modulus was 8-318 x h C.G.S. These three curves make it clear that the effect of the magneti field on the internal viscosity of a nickel wire depends very largely oi the hardness of the metal , as , of course , we should expect .
The progressive modification of the groups of molecular magnets by the magnetic field is opposed by the greater resistance introduced by the hardening , and the changes due to the field are not produced .
In the annealed condition the wire has its groups much more at liberty to take up a new arrangement , and this is shown also , of course , by the smaller magnetic susceptibility in the hardened condition .
Curves Ia , IIa , give the results as in I and II , but after twenty oscillations .
It will be observed that while 11^ is above II up to and beyond the field of maximum difference of amplitude , and is then below II , curve I a is below II throughout its entire course .
Effect oj Drawing Down on the Iron Wire.\#151 ; This is shown in fig. 2 , in which the ordinates and abscissae represent the same quantities as do tne ordinates and abscissae of the curves in fig. 1 , after twenty oscillations in each case .
The amplitude for iron , it is to be remembered , is greater with field than with no field .
The steep rise of curve I , and the horizontality of the remaining part , show the fact noted in the former paper , that the effect of the magnetisation in iron is attained with low fields , and that higher then produce little further effect .
After the results shown in curve I had been obtained the wire was drawn through two holes of the draw plate , and after this treatment gave curve II .
This curve is lower and rises less sharply than I , showing that the internal viscosity of the wrire was not so much affected by the magnetic field as previously .
The drawn wire was then annealed , and gave curve III , which does not differ much from I. Further drawing down resulted in curve IV , which is practically a straight line , that is , the difference is now nearly proportional to the field .
Re-annealing of the now much thinner wire gave curve V , which shows a very distinctly greater effect of magnetisation on viscosity than ever before .
The repeated drawing and annealing process thus seems to result in the finally annealed wire in 904 .
] Magnetic Field on Torsional Oscillations , etc. collocation of molecules much more easily affected by a magnetic lid .
Effect of Permanent and Temporary Strain in Nickel Wire.\#151 ; This is \#166 ; ustrated on fig. 3 , which is constructed on the same principle as Vs .
1 and 2 .
Curve I describes the behaviour of the wire in its figinal state .
After this curve had been obtained for the different slds , a weight ( that of a large vibrator ) of 11,202 grammes was hung Fig. 2 .
on the wire and left for two days .
At the end of that time curve II was obtained , showing that the permanent strain had increased the differences of amplitude remaining after the forty oscillations .
The Weight was left on for another 2 days , and curve III was observed .
Two repetitions of the process gave curves IV and V , which practically coincide with III , and are not drawn .
.* It is remarkable that permanent strain should have in nickel practically the same effect as annealing in increasing the effect of field Prof. A. Gray and Mr. A. Wood .
Effect of a [ Mar. J on the rate of subsidence , which effect it is to be remembered is nickel an increase.* The wire was now allowed to rest for a few days without any weig Fia .
3 .
upon it ; but it was found that the curve then obtained coincided with curves III , IV , and V , so that the rest seemed to produce no effect .
The heavy vibrator was now hung on instead of the light one , which had been used in all the previous experiments with both wires .
# See the former paper , loc. cit. 904 .
] Magnetic Field on Torsional Oscillations , etc. !
urve YU was obtained .
The light vibrator and the heavy one were hen used again in succession and gave curves VIII and IX .
Probably he difference between curves VIII and IX was due to the additional ongitudinal strain ( in this case temporary ) given to the wire by the dditional load .
The subsidences were taken for all the curves after orty vibrations no matter which vibrator was used .
The difference between curves VII and IX , it will be noticed , is a wofold one ; a much greater maximum of effect and a shifting of the uaximum to a greater field .
'll It seems not impossible that the main differences between nickel and ron disclosed by the experiments described in the previous paper , and he effects now discussed , may be explained by supposing that the groups of magnetic molecules in nickel lie in layers across the wire , separated by a matrix of conducting material which becomes hardened by drawing , and prevents the progressive changes in the groups from the initial condition of closed chains , which is brought about by magnetic force .
On the other hand , the supposition would be that in iron the molecular magnets are in longitudinal groups with nonmagnetic material between .
Thus , in the vibrating wire in the first case , the conducting material moving in the field of the molecules would give rise to dissipation of energy , and there would be a greater rate of subsidence in the field than without it .
In the other case it is conceivable that the changes of the longitudinal and initially more or less nearly closed chains might result in such a modification of field as to result in less dissipation of energy by " 1 induction currents due to relative motion of the conducting substance and the molecular magnets , for the conducting matter between the longitudinal rows of elementary magnets may move in a feebler field t after the magnetisation than before , owing to the breaking-up of the " closed chains .
The effect of permanent and temporary longitudinal strain in nickel seems contrary to what we should have expected .
It is known that longitudinal strain on nickel diminishes its longitudinal magnetisation , - and judging from this we should have rather expected the contrary effect to that which we have observed .
There is however , no doubt as i to the result , which is borne out by many sets of observations .
The cause must be matter for further consideration and experiment .
iMm

