April 22 , 1852 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
G. E. Day , M.D. , was admitted .
The following papers were read:1 .
" On the Structure of the Stem of Victoria regia .
" By Arthur Henfrey , F.L.S. &amp;c. Communicated by Professor Edward Forbes , F.R.S. Received February 19 , 1852 .
The investigation of the anatomy of Victoria regia acquires its interest from the fact of the relations which have been pointed out to exist between the Nymphseacese and some of the undoubted Monocotyledonous families , especially also from the researches of M. Trecul on the anatomy of Nuphar lutea , which plant that author describes as having a stem of the Monocotyledonous type of structure .
Through the unfortunate death of the plant of Victoria regia , which had flowered for some time in the gardens of the Royal Botanic Society of London , the author had an opportunity of examining the anatomy of its stem .
It is an upright rhizome , with undeveloped internodes , growing by a single terminal bud , apparently perennially , and attaining considerable thickness ; on the outside it bears the remains of the petioles and flower-stalks , which separate by disarticulation , and their remains are found arranged in spiral lines upon the outside , so as to give the short , thick rhizome the aspect of a piece of a palm stem .
As in Nuphar , the roots are produced in bundles at the bases of the petioles , and fall off successively upwards as the new ones are developed , leaving very conspicuous scars .
The internal structure of the stem is quite Monocotyledonous in its character , presenting no trace of the arrangement of the vascular bundles into rings of wood , no true woody fibres , and no cambium layer .
The vascular bundles , which are composed exclusively of spiral , annular and reticulated ducts surrounded by elongated parenchymatous cellular tissue , are isolated and arranged just as in Monocotyledons , such as the Palms ; and the outer part of the stem exhibits a cortical parenchyma , much more like that of the herbaceous rhizomes of the rush-like plants , than any other known structure ; it bears not the least resemblance to the bark of Dicotyledons .
The results of the investigation show that Victoria , like Nuphar , has a stem of essentially Monocotyledonous structure .
The paper was accompanied by drawings illustrating the general and microscopic anatomy of the stem .

