1883 .
] Dr. J. Bell .
Chemistry of Food .
Vi* 4 Section of the test , magnified 50 diameters .
*lg ' The sectjon is of very unequal thickness , but serves to show the arenaceous structure of the test , and the character of the constituent grains many of which are minute Foraminifera .
* A portion of the surface at \#171 ; ( fig. 3 ) magnified 8 diameters ; showing the S ' ' closed terminations of the tubes ; and , at c , a portion of one of the concentric reticulated " partitions .
" Plate 3 .
fjo .
6 .
Radial section ( fractured surface ) magnified 8 diameters ; reticulated Fi\#187 ; - 7 Tangential section ( fractured surface ) on the plane of one of the reticulated " partitions " ( d.d. ) , magnified 8 diameters .
Yis 8 .
Inferior aspect ; a portion magnified 8 diameters , showing the smaller size and contorted form of the tubes near the centre of the test .
April 26 , 1883 .
THE TREASURER , V.P. , in the Chair .
The Presents received , were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Contributions to the Chemistry of Food .
By James Bell .
Ph. D. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor Frankland , F.R.S. Received April 4 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains the results of researches on butter , cheese , milk , the cereal foods , bread and lentil flour .
The author some time ago , as the result of a series of experiments , indicated that it was probable the soluble and insoluble fatty acids in butter fat did not exist as simple glycerides , but in the complex form of compound ethers\#151 ; palmitic and oleic acids being combined in the same molecule with butyric acid .
The results of a further investigation into the character of butter fat are given , which tend to confirm this theory of its constitution .
Butter fat is proved to vary in composition far beyond the limits previously supposed , and a table of representative samples is given , showing the ordinary variations which occur .
Ordinary fats are contrasted with butter fat , and it is sugVOL .
xxxv .
M 162 Dr. J. Bell .
Chemistry of Food .
[ Apr. 26 gested that the latter , from its complex character , probably performs i some more specific office in the system than the former .
The proximate analyses of ten descriptions of cheese are given , and * the composition of the fat extracted has been determined in each case \gt ; The soluble and insoluble fatty acids are shown to possess the normal s relation existing between these acids in milk fat , a result held to be d inconsistent with the views advanced by some chemists that the t albuminoids become slowly changed into fat .
Tabular results are given of a wide and comprehensive investi- i gation into the variations which occur in the composition of the milk i yielded by different cows under the varying conditions of food and F season .
Besides cow 's milk , the proximate constituents of other kinds % of milk have been determined , and as the analyses of the whole of the \gt ; milks have been conducted on an uniform method , the results will f be found valuable for purposes of comparison .
The changes which occur in sour milk have been investigated and I the results given , with a statement of the amount of depreciation 1 which occurs in the non-fatty solids , according to the period for which I the milk has been kept .
Tabular results are given of the proximate analyses of the different j .cereals , of wheat flour , and of oatmeal , and also a complete analysis of j the ash of each .
The proximate constituents of the cereals , \amp ; c. , have ] been partly determined on new lines , and partly by an improved ] method of analysis .
Judging from the variable results obtained by different chemists , the I author suggests that the saccharine matter appears in some instances to j have been overlooked , while in others it must have been determined in : an aqueous extract of the cereals , without regard to the transformations which the soluble albuminoids produce in starch and other .carbohydrates in presence of water .
The albuminoids of the cereals have been found to possess varying degrees of diastatic action in converting starch , rye standing at the top , and rice at the bottom of the scale .
Tabular results of the proximate analyses of aerated and homemade bread arQ given ; the changes which occur in flour during the baking process have been studied , and the sugar present identified as 5 maltose .
The results of a proximate analysis of lentil flour made on the same lines as the cereals , are given , and also a complete analysis f of the ash of lentils .

