The following papers were read : 1 .
" On a Cycle of Eighteen Years in the Mean Annual Height of the Barometer in the Climate of London ; and on a Constant Varia ?
tion of the Barometrical Mean , according to the Moon 's Declina ?
tion .
" By Luke Howard , Esq. , F.R.S. For obtaining the general results communicated in the present paper , the author has followed the same method as that he had adopted in the two former papers laid before the Society on the con ?
nexion of the barometrical variation with the lunar phases and apsides .
Tables are given of the barometrical averages on successive solar years , from 1815 to 1832 , so constructed as to exhibit the variation of the moon 's influence according to her declination ; and also of these averages on successive cycles of nine solar years , classed according to the moon 's place in declination , on either side of the equator .
The results deduced from these comparisons are , first , that the barometrical mean in this climate is depressed by the moon 's declination being to the south of the equator ; and , secondly , that this depression takes place gradually , commencing with the moon 's being in full north declination , and proceeding through her remain ?
ing positions to the time when she crosses the equator to resume the northern declination ; at which season .
the whole pressure that had been withdrawn from the atmosphere is suddenly restored .
The author thinks there is evidence of a great tidal wave , or swell in the atmosphere , caused by the moon 's attraction , preceding her in her approach to , and following her slowly as she recedes from these la ?
titudes ; so that were the atmosphere a calm fluid ocean of air , of uniform temperature , this tide would be manifested with as great re ?
gularity as those of the ocean of waters .
But the currents uniformly kept up by the sun 's varying influence effectually prevent this from taking place , and involve the problem in complexity .
He finds that there is also manifested in the lunar influence a gradation of effect , which operates through a cycle of eighteen years .
The mean pres ?
sure of the atmosphere during the first part of this period increases ; and then , after preserving for a year its maximum amount , again decreases through the remaining years of the cycle , but exhibits , towards its minimum , some fluctuations before it again regularly increases .

