476 Scattering of Light by Solid Substances .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , Imperial College , South Kensington .
( Received January 20 , 1919 .
) [ Plate 12 .
] The observations already published on scattering of light by gases and liquids* naturally led on to an examination of the behaviour of solids in this respect .
At the first trial it was found that glass scatters very freely , the scattered light being blue , and in many cases almost completely polarised .
The observation is so easy that it must almost certainly have been made before , though I have not met with any mention of it .
No special arrangements are necessary .
If a narrow parallel beam , say 6 mm. diameter , from the condenser of an electric lantern , is allowed to traverse the interior of a block of glass , the scattered light along the track will be conspicuous .
This is a ready method of demonstrating the scattering by small particles .
Numerous specimens of plate glass and optical glass have been examined .
These all show the scattering , though they differ among themselves in respect of intensity and completeness of polarisation .
The depth and purity of the blue colour goes of course with the latter .
A few comparisons were made between the intensities of vibration in the scattered light : ( 1 ) Parallel to direction of primary beam ( weak image ) .
( 2 ) Perpendicular to primary beam ( strong image ) .
The former is given as a percentage of the latter .
The result for Chance 's crown glass was about 8 per cent. , and for ordinary plate glass 3 per cent. The Chance 's crown gives a much poorer blue .
These glasses give a degree of polarisation of the same order as the various gases where the scattering is molecular .
This however is probably an accidental circumstance .
In the case of glasses , the wide difference between different samples suggests that scattering is due in the main to inclusions rather than to the molecules .
These inclusions are probably to be regarded as spherical , some of them with a diameter not small compared with the wave-length .
In this case the defect of polarisation in glass would be due to the appreciable size of the obstacles , whereas in gases it is due to lack of spherical symmetry .
The remaining experiments on solids have reference to quartz in different varieties and to Iceland spar .
It was found that yellow quartz and smoky * 'Itoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 94 , p. 453 ( 1918 ) ; vol. 95 , p. 155 ( 1918 ) .
Scattering of Light by Solid Substances .
quartz have the property of scattering light very strongly , the colouring matter being evidently distributed in the crystal in the form of small particles analogous to those found in glass .
Preliminary examination of a crystal can often be made by immersing it in a trough of highly refracting liquid such as benzene ; but to work satisfactorily , it is necessary to have suitable faces cut and polished , so that the beam can be sent along the axis of the crystal and examined perpendicularly to it .
Evidently the scattered light should be analysed parallel and perpendicular to one of the principal planes of the crystal , for if this is not done , double refraction altogether disturbs the relative intensities of the images .
With a crystal of yellow quartz from Madagascar , the polarisation of scattered light was tolerably complete , the weak image having about 07 of 1 per cent , of the intensity of the strong one .
This is decidedly more perfect polarisation than was obtained with any of the gases examined in the earlier investigation .
The stronger image was bluish , but the fainter image was a very rich blue , no doubt the same as the " residual blue " observed by Tyndall in precipitated clouds , when the particles were no longer very small compared with the wave-length .
A sample of slightly smoky quartz from Brazil gave less intense scattering than the above , the scattered light was , however , of a good sky-blue colour .
The weak image had about 3 per cent , of the intensity of the strong one .
In these cases the primary beam travels along the axis of the crystal .
If , on the other hand , the line of vision is along the axis , then the rotatory property of the crystal intervenes , and ( in white light ) the two polarisations appear to the eye to be of equal intensity .
This , it is not difficult to see , is the natural result of rotatory dispersion by a considerable thickness of crystal , causing several complete rotations .
The rotatory effect is best shown , however , by using a nicol to polarise the incident beam .
The cloud of particles then acts as analyser .
As the beam advances into the crystal , the plane of polarisation is rotated , so that alternations of light and darkness are observed laterally , corresponding to rotations of 90 ' .
In white light , the rotatory dispersion gives striking coloured bands , reminiscent of interference bands , and like them rapidly losing purity after a few periods , owing to the superposition of different orders .
Visually five or six periods can be traced .
Photographically several more , see Plate , No. I , which was taken with white light .
No. II on the plate was taken with monochromatic violet light ( the violet line of a quartz mercury lamp ) .
The bands of higher order do not in this case lose definiteness , though there is a loss of intensity by absorption in the yellowish crystal , and also some variation due to irregular distribution of the scattering particles in the Hon. R. J. Strutt .
quartz .
No. Ill was photographed on the same scale as No. II , but with yellow light instead of violet .
The much longer period will be noticed , due to the comparatively small rotation for this part of the spectrum .
Homogeneous yellow light could not be used , as no source available was bright enough for photography with reasonably short exposure .
The light of a carbon arc filtered through bichromate solution was employed , and in consequence of the considerable range of wave-lengths present , the maxima in the photograph become less distinct after a few periods .
A pretty effect can be got by passing a polarised beam in succession through two crystals , the first right-handed ( say ) and the second left-handed .
The first should be only half the length of the second .
In this case , using-white light , the bands appear with maximum distinctness when the beam enters the first crystal , becoming fainter along the length of this crystal , from the causes already mentioned .
The second crystal , however , reverses the action of the first , and the bands become more distinct again , until the beam has traversed an equal thickness of each , till it reaches the middle of the second crystal .
Here the planes of polarisation for the various colours again coincide , and maximum distinctness is recovered .
Beyond this point the bands gradually fade out again .
Thus the central white band occurs in the middle of the second crystal , with the coloured bands gradually losing distinctness as we proceed away from it on either side .
The appearance is the same as that of the complete interference fringe in white light produced by Fresnel 's bi-prism or any equivalent arrangement .
On rotating the polariser , the bands in the two crystals travel along the axis in opposite directions .
To get the bands in full intensity , it is important to adjust the crystal so that the light traverses the optic axis pretty accurately .
The experiments on quartz so far described refer to coloured or smoky specimens , which evidently owe their scattering power to the same particles which give rise to the colour or the smokiness .
It was of considerable interest to examine the behaviour of clear quartz .
Preliminary examination of a specimen apparently quite colourless , and having only a few internal blemishes , showed that it scattered much less light than any glass , or any specimen of water or liquid ether that has been examined .
In fact , scattering has not proved to be visually observable with this specimen .
The conditions cannot be made as good for observing a slight scattering as with gases .
The few internal blemishes form bright points in the field of view , which distract the eye , and the polished faces diffuse some stray light which spoils the blackness of the background .
It has , however , been possible to detect the scattering by photography .
Strutt .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , A , vol. 95 , Plate 12 .
I Scattering of Light by Solid Substances .
479 For this purpose the crystal was covered as far as possible with the composition sold for backing photographic plates , which mitigated reflections and strong light resulting from them .
A window was left for the beam to enter along the axis of the crystal , and another for lateral observation .
The track of the beam came out well in the photograph ( Plate , No. IY ) , and when a double image prism was mounted in front of the lens , scattered light was only apparent in one of the images , showing that the usual polarisation was present .
Intensity comparisons were made between the total light scattered by clear quartz , and by the other media , by the method formerly described , of altering the lens aperture until photographic intensity was equalised .
The results were as follows:\#151 ; Dust-free air , 1 ; clear quartz , 8 ; plate glass , 300 ; liquid ether , 900.* I have also observed a scattering strong compared with that of air , in a rhomb of clear Iceland spar .
No intensity measurements was made .
It is probable that even in the clearest crystals , the residual scattering is of the same character as that seen in obviously smoky quartz , and is due to inclusions which have no relation to the crystalline structure .
Different specimens of apparently clear quartz vary considerably in their scattering power , a fact which can hardly be explained on any other view .
The numbers above quoted for quartz and glass are merely illustrative , and refer only to the particular specimens .
The molecules in the crystal are regularly spaced , and at a distance apart small compared with the wave-length of light .
So far as they are concerned , the crystal behaves like a diffraction grating with its spacing less than the wave-length .
Under these circumstances the secondary disturbances destroy one another by interference , and there is no molecular or atomic scattering .
With much shorter waves ( X-rays ) the well-known diffraction by crystals comes into evidence .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
No. I. Polarised beam along the axis of a yellow quartz crystal .
White light .
No. II .
Ditto , homogeneous blue light .
No. III .
Ditto , yellow light , not highly homogeneous .
No. IV .
Unpolarised beam along the axis of a very clear and white quartz crystal .
* This is the old result for liquid ether , and represents the least scattering I could get , after treating the ether in various ways .
I am not satisfied that it is a really definitive result for pure ether .
The problem of obtaining such a result is far more difficult for liquids than for gases .

