X. " Observations on the Discovery in various Localities of the Remains of Human Art mixed with the Bones of Extinct Races of Animals .
" By CHARLES BABJBAGE , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received May 26 , 1859 .
Statements have recently been made relative to the discovery of works of human art occurring in a breccia amongst bones of ancient animals , hitherto supposed to have been extinct long anterior to the existence of our race .
These observations are supposed by some to prove the great antiquity of the human race ; whilst others , equally competent to form an opinion , admit that the intermixture of such remains presents a most perplexing mystery .
Whatever may be the result of yet unpublished or of future and more extensive observations , it is certainly premature to assign this great antiquity to our race , as long as the occurrence of such mixtures can be explained by known causes admitted to be still in action .
Two places have recently been pointed out in which such mixtures are stated to occur:-1st , certain localities in France ; 2nd , certain caves in Sicily .
The latter have been visited by Dr. Falconer , and as the information respecting them which we at present possess , though small , is yet much more definite than what is known of the French locality , my explanations will chiefly relate to the latter .
It is stated that one of the Sicilian caves has its sides perforated by marine animals .
That on penetrating the stalactitical incrustationi covering the roof ' of the cavern , and detaching fragments , it was found to consist of a breccia of bones of animals long extinet , mixed with fragments of flint or stone , bearing evident traces of human art .
In order to explaini these circumstances , it is oily vnecessary to admit the upheaval of the land and the occurrence of torrents .
Fig. 1 .
1st Period.-Let us suppose two caverns , a lower , A , and an upper , B C , communicating with each other by a long rent or pipe P. This pipe may be supposed of any height , sufficient when filled with water to produce the required force .
The lower cavern is supposed to be nearly at the level of the sea .
Fig. 2 .
Pholades and other miarinie animals will perforate or attachi themiselves to the bottomn and sides of the cavern , and if the , - , ea enitirely fill it : the roof , too , or at least that portion adjacent to the mouth of the cavern , may be similarly affected .
The rocks in which these caverns occur may be of any geological age .
2nd Period.-By the gradual or quick upheaval of the strata in which these caverns occur , they may become dry .
During the rising , or at a later period , fragments of rock may have accumulated at the openi mouth of the lower cavern , and thus have stopped up its entrance , leaving the roof , sides , and floors bearing evident traces of having been an ocean cave .
3rd Period.-Ages may have elapsed during which other strata may have been depositing in other portions of our globe .
But ultimately the earth became inhabited by those ancient , but now extinct mammalia , whose remains abound in its caverns .
Fig. 3 .
4th Period .
Ages may again have intervened when man , in his first rude state of existence , entering this deserted den through the opening its former occupants had used , might have been glad to shelter himself from an inclement climate in this bone-house of a more ancient world .
During this period traces of man 's skill would probably be left within his miserable abode ; pottery , if he possessed the art ; charcoal or charred wood , if he were acquainited with fire ; rude cutting instruments of flint or other hard stone , perhaps spear or arrowheads .
Fig. 4 represents the caverns at the end of the fourth period .
Fig. 4 .
/ ~~~~~ 5th Period.-Torrents entering by the aperture at C , might now have swept through the upper cavern , perhaps at successive intervals of time .
The effect of such torrents would be to wash from the sloping floor of the upper cavern , the mixed remains of animal and human life , together with the earliest traces of human art .
In some of these catastrophes , the workman , as well as his work , may have been entombed together in the lower cavern .
Fig. 5 .
/ ~~~CW Thus in the course of time the whole of the lower cavern may have been filled up even to the roof .
This state is represented in fig. 5 .
The effect of infiltration through the roof would now cement into a breccia the milngled remnants from the upper chamber , and enclose them , as it were , in a marble monument , in their new , though not their latest resting-place .
But the infiltration proceeding from the roof would act first , and most powerfully , in cementing the upper part of the intruded mass .
The lower portion would be less consolidated , and therefore less capable of resisting any pressure from above .
6th Period .
In the progress of time , some torrent of extraordinary magnituide may have penetrated through the upper cavern , and , filling the channel or pipe P , have acted by its hydrostatic pressure on the semi-consolidated matter in the lower one .
As the water accumulated in the pipe , the pressure would become immense , and ultimatelv the materials included in the lower cavern would give way at their point of least resistance .
This would probably be towards the middle or bottom of the original entrance .
The first sludden rush would probably clear out the greater part of the contents of the lower cavern , leaving , however,1st .
Those portions attached to the roof by the infiltrated matter .
2nd .
Those portions on the flcor more consolidated by pressure than the middle which gave way ; and also other portions of the loose rubbish which the form of the floor at the entrance of the cave might have intercepted in its course .
After this reopening of the lower cavern , the access of air would accelerate evaporation from its roof , and that portion of the breccia still adhering to it would gradually acquire the external coating of stalactite which usually occurs in caves .
In the meantime the dropping from the roof , falling upon the floor , might also contribute to consolidate the remaining fragments , and , although more slowly , cover the whole of them with a stalagmitic floor .
In this state , on entering the lower cave , the walls would be found perforated by marine animals , and no traces of animal life or of human art would present itself ; but on excavating the floor , both would be found below the stalagmite ; whilst if the curious inquirer should drive his pick into the roof , its fragments would bear testimony to the same fact .
Fig. 6 represents the final state of the cavern .
Fig. 6 .
That caverns are occasionally filled with water , and after remaining full perhaps for centuries , are drained by artificial or natural causes , is well known .
A very interesting case presented itself to me when visiting the caverns of Mitchelstown in Ireland .
These caverns had recently ( 1833 ) become accessible , and were then very imperfectly explored .
I expressed to the guides my wish to visit some of the unexplored portion , and , after traversing various chambers during six hours , we entered a long and lofty cavern , the floor of which sloped rather steeply towards one side .
The whole floor was covered with a coat of soft red mud , about three inches thick , still holding a portion of the water in which it had been suspended .
No trace whatever of the footsteps of man or of animals appeared ; the impression of our own feet alone marked the track up to the point which we had reached .
Being rather in advance of my companions , my attention was suddenly attracted by what appeared to me to be about a bushel of soot lying in a small heap on the floor .
On examination , I found it to consist of a moist spongy substance , of a black colour , which might , if dry , have assumed the form of a coarse black powder .
Asking the opinion of my guide , he suggested that it might have been the remains of a fire lighted by some previous explorer ; but this was inadmissible .
I looked round for matter of the same kind , but on further search I could not detect any other instance ; however , accidentally casting my eye towards the roof of the cavern , I observed a black patch vertically above the heap of supposed soot lying on the floor , and from 20 to 30 feet above it .
The dotted liniie , a ... .
6 , -fig .
5 , may represent the position .
On my return from the eaverii I examiined the black sooty matter , and found that it left but very small traces under the action of the blowpipe .
On the following day , having made inquiries as to the drainage of the neighbouring country , I was informed that about twenty years before my visit , a stream of water bad been diverted from , the valley in which it originrally flowed , into aniother adjacent valley .
I then visited several quarries , in one of which , about a mile from the caves , I observed a small stream of water terminating in a little pool or sink .
In this pool I noticed slight eddies ) which occasionally sucked in very small particles floating on the surface of the water .
I now visited the valley fromwhich the original streaml had been diverted , and found at sori e elevation a peat bog to which it had probably given rise .
This peat was in several parts niearly black ; the most decayed portion greatly resembled the black matter I had brought from the caverni .
The origini of this black matter in the caverii now became apparent .
The large caverlns I had visited were conisiderably below the level of the peat moss , and the stream which flowed through it .
A portion of its waters was conveyed by sinks and crevices into the caves , and kept them continually full .
There must , however , have been some very small leakage through which , when the stream which supplied the water was cut off , those caverns were , after many years , laid dry .
A small mass of unconsolidated peat , sufficiently light to float , nmtust have been conveyed by the water into those eaverns .
When it arrived at the spot on which the black matter was fou nd , the piece of peat which still floated must have been pressed against the roof of the cavern .
Remaining there undisturbed for years , it may have become by decomposition specifically heavier than water , and then have subsided vertically down on the floor to the place on which I found it , leaving in the black spot on the roof the certificate of its former residence .
On the other hand , the piece of peat may have retained its power of floating , and only have deescended to the floor of the cavern by the slow escape of the water .
Such circumstances as these ought to induce us to exa(mine with great caution , any instances of the occurrence of works of hunail art mixed with the remains of ainimals not yet proved to have beeni coexistent with man .
Accident might have conveyed and hidden in the Mitchelstown caverns , a portion of human dress instead of a patch of peat .
It is obvious that under slightly altered circumstances , instruments formed by man , the bony remains of his frame , or those of other recent animals , might , by still existing caiises , be conveyed into deep recesses in the bowels of the earth , and there deposited with the remains of animals of an entirely differeit geological age .
Cases might occur in which the water passing in larger quantity would convey into such caverns a quantity of suspended mud , differing in its character at various seasons , and thus silt up the confused relies of distant ages in a regularly stratified deposit .
It is quite possible that the hullman remains imight thus be enclosed beneath the stalagmitic cruist , whilst the more ancient remains were scattered above it , uncovered , or covered by another coat of stalagmite .
If we suppose the existelce of two upper caves , B and C , at different heights , each separately coinmunicating with the lowest cave , A , as in fig. 7 , then still more remarkable facts might ultimately present themselves to those whom accident should lead to examine the lowest cave .
If , for example , the highest of these caves ( C ) contained only the remains of the extinct races of animals , and the other , or middle cave ( B ) , nothing but those of man and the works of his own hands , the following series of events might occur : 1st .
A flood directing its course wholly through the middle cave ( B ) , might wash down the fragments of the bones and works of man from that cave , and deposit them on the floor of the lowest cavern ( A ) .
2nd .
In a long series of years , a thick stalagmitic covering might be formed , giving an entire new stony floor to that cavern .
3rd .
Afterwards another flood , rising to a higher level , accidentally taking its course through the highest cave ( C ) , might cover this new stalagmitic floor of the lowest cave ( A ) with the bony fragments of these more ancient animals 4th .
The continued infiltration from above might again cover these remainis with aniother thick coating of stalagmite ; such alterations might even be several times repeated .
The annexed sketch will explain this case more clearly : Fig. 7 .
A The great geological law , that the order of succession of strata indicates the order of their antiquity , the lowest being always the oldest , is limited by the conditioni that those strata shall not have been removed from their original beds .
But the action of causes still existing may have produced apparent deviationis from this order , and the present state of geological science seems to require an examination of such exceptional cases .
If a great river , similar to the Mississippi or the Amazon , flowed through a country whose superficial stratum consisted of a thin bed of chalk succeeded by gault , then during thousands of ages it wouLld distribute , by means of an oceani current , its milky burden over the bottom of the existing oceani , on which , after a lengthened initerval , a bed of chalk would reappear .
When the superficial bed of chalk over which the river flowed was cut through , its waters would begin to act on the newly-exposed gault ; and after another period of equally vast length , a stratum of gault might cover the chalk , thus producing an extensive inversion of the two strata .
But this would be dependent on the relative fineness and specific gravity of the particles of the two substances .
It is possible that the particles of gaLult , if larger or of greater specific gravity than those of the chalk , might arrive at a greater terminal velocity , and even overtake and pass through those of the chalk still suspended , thus formino a bed below the chalk , or a mixed bed of chalk passing into gault , and then ultimately a bed of gault above the chalk .
In such circumstances few or none of the larger fossils would occur , but possibly the remains of infusorial animals might enable us to identify the material of the ancient and of the new but inverted deposit of gault .
The case of remains of human art found imnbedded with bones of extinict races of animals in deposits of ancient gravel , seems to require a different explanation .
Admitting , however , the existence of those animals to have been contemporaneous with the original distribution of the gravel , it by no means certainly follows that the race of man was coeval with them .
For the remains of man and his rude arts might occur on the surface of that gravel long ages after the extinction of those races of animals .
Several causes might produce their mixture:1st .
A vast lake bursting its barriers by erosion , or by an eartlii quake , might carry before it in its impetuous course the superficial remains of man , mixed up with vast quantities of gravel , containing the bones of the extinct races of animals , and deposit them over a large area of land at a lower level .
2nd .
The change of the course of a river , or of a branch of its delta , might produce the same mixture of the remains of two distinct and far distant ages .
It might , by the clearing out of its new chalnel , carry off the gravel and the remains of extinct animals , and deposit them , mixed up with specimnens of human art , on spots which , after a few centuries , might again reappear as dry land .
3rd .
A narrow pass , the outlet of a stream of water , might be stopped up by the avalanches falling from a glacier after a severe winter , and the lake formed by the stream might thus periodically rise , until the pressure broke through the barrier .
4th .
Amongst the phenomena occurring during earthquakes , it has been observed that large cracks have suddenly opened and as suddenly closed , either immediately or shortly after .
During these momerntary or temporary openings , the remains of the arts of man , and even man himself , may have dropped into the chasm .
Under siuch circumstances , remains of man and his arts might occur in fbornatiouis of aiy date .
If the cleft occurred in rock or in any very hard material , traces of it would remain to inldicate their origin .
If it occurred in clay or softer material , the track through which these remains entered might be partially or even entirely obliterated .
If the cleft occurred in tolerably compact gravel and then immediately closed , it would scarcely be possible at a future period to trace its origin .
The discussion of the recent observations of Mr. Prestwich on flints , worked apparently by the hand of man , fouind deeply imbedded in ancient gravel , as well as the extensive observations of Dr. Falconer on the bone-caves of Sicily , have given a new and importanit interest to the great question of the antiquity of the residence of our race on the planet we inhabit .
Having examiined a few of these flint-instruments , I am satisfied that several of them have been worked by human hands .
This opinion is founded upon the previous examination many years ago of the mode then used for making guin-flints .
Amongst the many valuable observations of Dr. Falconier , one fact to which he testifies deserves the most marked attenition , and may possibly assist in directing us to the true solution of the problem .
Dr. Falconer has noticed the fact that the greater portion of these bones belong to the Hippopotamus , and also that they occur in their several deposits in enormous numbers .
In each cave there must have been several thousands , if not tens of thousands , of individuals .
The question immediately suggests itself , what causes produced this vast collection of individuals of the same race entombed in one common sepulchre ?
It is scarcely possible to suppose that any instinct could have led the Hippopotamus , when death approached , to have chosen particular spots where the bones of his race were exposed to his view .
If this were so , then most probably the existing race would possess the same instinct .
Another question arises : Were these remains originally deposited in different localities , and afterwards transported by some common canuse to these various caverns and beaches ?
Water see is the only probable Yiode of coniveytance : if this were so , traces of the rolling action of water imutist be found on all the bones , but this I ap)relend is &gt; the case .
Moreover , it is difficult to coniceive how water could have collected the bones of a multitude of individuals of the same race , distributed over a wide extent of country , into a few favoured localities .
The bones of all other animals inhabiting the same country , and remaining on its surface , would have been exposed to the same action , and should have been deposited in the same tomb .
If these animals all perished at the same time in each locality , some common cause must have produced the catastrophe .
Although the existing evidence may be insufficient to lead us to the true solution of this interesting question , yet it may be useful to throw out hypotheses , which , by accounting for some of the facts , shall direct the attention of future observers to the examination of such special points as may either partially support or directly disprove these conjectures .
With this view I shall offer two conijectures , one dependent on the subsidence of the land , the other upon the rising of the waters .
Conjecture L-By the subsidence of the land .
Let us imagine that the basin of the bottom of the Mediterranean had at a former period been on a level with , or just above the African continent .
Sicily and the various islands wouLld then have stood above it as mountain chains .
One portion of the drainage of this land may have been effected by a vast river passing into the Atlantic through the opening now known as the Straits of Gibraltar .
In this state of things extensive freshwater lakes and other large rivers may have contributed to support large herds of HIippopotami .
In such circumstances the gradual stubsidence of this land would check the outflow of its rivers , and occasion extensive marshes and lakes , a state of things favourable to the increase of the Hippopotami .
As the subsidence proceeded , those animals which dwelt on the baniks of the lakes and rivers would be driven inland .
The waters of the Atlanitic , entering through the channel of the former river , wouLld convert the low ground and the marshes into sea , and thus gradually isolate the sinking land from the African coast .
Wheni this state of the country had caused the Ilippopotayni to tnultiply rapidly , an increaised rapidity in the sinking of its lands through the waters , might driv those antimals rapidly to the higher lands , which would then form islands , on the borders of which they would congregate in multitudes , until numbers of them , collected in ravines , rushing on in their attempts to escape in search of food , might trample each other to death and leave their bodies at the foot of impassable precipices washed by this new sea .
Conjecture II.-Let us suppose that the basin of the Mediterranean was formerly dry land shut in from the Atlantic by a barrier at the Straits of Gibraltar .
In these circumstances the whole of the present Mediterranean Sea would have been a country sunk more or less under the level of the ocean ; just as a large tract of country around the Dead Sea is at present .
The country inieluded in this great depression might be warmer than others situated in the same latitude , and would be full of lakes fed by rivers , since there could be no drainage except from evaporation .
It would therefore probably be favourable to the growth of the Hippopotamus .
Imagine now some convulsion to have opened the Straits of Gibraltar , so as to have allowed the waters of the Atlantic to enter this vast basin .
The salt river thus introduced might require days , or weeks , or months , or years , before it filled this immense cavity ; it might also increase its velocity as it wore away the channel of its entrance .
Under these circumstances the Hippopotami would be gradually driven to the higher ground , and those mountainous regions which now form the islands of the Mediterranean would then have received on their shores the hosts of animals , driven by this inundation to seek dry land on which to repose and food on which they might subsist .
Both of these hypotheses account for the aggregation in different localities , of the remains of large numbers of animals of the same class , dwelling amongst rivers and lakes ; both equally account for their destruction on the same spots , either by trampling each other to death in the rush to escape , or by the slower processes of drowning or starvation .
But neither hypothesis accounts for the fractured state of these bones , even though the aiiimals should have rushed over the precipice .
It might be expected that some portion of these Hippopotamni , escaping from the deluge which destroyed their race , would have reached the plains of some larger island , and then separating in search of food , have left their carcases , wasted by famine , variously scattered at a distance from each other .
The following questions are thus suggested for inquiry Are the bones of younig and of old animals mixed indiscriminately throughout the whole of these bone-beds ?
Is it possible to distinguish the bones of females from those of males ?
Do the bonies of the larger and stronger individuals occur in greater abundance near the top of the bone-beds , and those of the smxialler and feebler animals nearer the bottom of those beds ?
If the sea followed these animals quickly , the yoiung a id the feeblest would perish before they reached the great deposits of bones , Although not at all confident that either of these explanations is the true one , I look upon them as openi to less objection than any other of which I have yet heard , and therefore give them a ternporary assenit .
The conclusion to which these remriarks lead , is that whilst we ought to be quite prepared to examine any evidelnce which tends to prove the great anitiquity of our race , yet that if the facts adduced cani be explained and accounted for by the operation of a few simple and natuiral causes , it is ul.philosophical to infer the coexistence of man with those races of extinct animals .
The interest and importance of the subject are such , that niew and still more extensive researches cannot fail to be made ; and if these remarks shall in any way contribute to lighten the labour of future inquirers , or to promote the true explaniation of the facts , they will have fully attained the object of their publication .

