]\gt ; The Theory of Decay in Radioactive Luminous Compounds .
By J. W. T. WALSH , .
( Oxon .
) , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) ( Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received May 14 , 191 ( From the National Physical Laboratory .
) 1 .
Synopsis .
It has been found* that the luminosity of radium luminous compound at first rises rapidly to a maximum and then decreases , according to an exponential law , for about 200 days from manufacture .
From this time on , however , the rate of luminosity decrease becomes slower and slower , so that the brightness tends to approach a limiting value which is not zero .
The following paper is the result of an attempt to find some ] anation of this behaviour such as will furnish grounds for the prediction of the ultimate behaviour of compounds of varying composition .
The theory of destruction of ' ' active centres forward by Rutherford to explain the fact of decay , leads to a simple exponential which , as has been said , represents the results to a sufficiently close approximation during the first part of the life , but fails increasingly at the later period .
To represent fully the complete luminosity curve it is necessary to assume some factor operating in a direction opposite to that of destruction of the active centres .
It is shown that the observed results are well represented by the expression found on the assumption that the destroyed active centres recover at a rate proportional to their concentration in the material .
This rate is termed for convenience " " the rate of recovery but , without further extended inyestigation of the nature of the supposititious active centres , the term can only be justified as a convenient method of representing the observed facts , and cannot be regarded as having any basis in our knowledge of the mechanism of the luminosity of radioactive luminous compound .
Two applications of the " " recovery\ldquo ; theory are given : ( i ) The investigation of the ultimate luminosities of compounds containing different proportions of radium in samples of zinc sulphide of the same characteristics .
This is of importance in considering the most suitable radium content to employ for any specific purpose .
( ii ) The calculation of the total light emitted by a sample of radium luminous compound during any por.tion of its life .
'An Investigation of Radium Luminous Compound , ' Paterson , Walsh , and Higgins , ' ' Phys. Soc. Proc vol. 4 , p. 215 ( 1917 ) . .
Soc. Proc , vol. 83 , p. 561 ( 1910 ) .
The Theory of Decay in dioactive Luminous Compounds .
551 An appendix deals with the results to be expected ( on the theory of recovery ) from samples of mesothoritun luminous compounds in which the age of the mesothorium may be from 6 months to 2 years .
2 .
actory .
It has long been known that the of radiunr inous compounds decreases with lapse of time , and in 1910 Marsden*made measurements of this effict in the case of zinc sulphide , willemite , and platinocyanide acted on by radium emanation .
His sourco of radiation was , of course , , but he that the decay of Iuminosity of the luminescent substance was , in all cases , more than that of the source of the radiation .
Rutherford ( loc. cit in a ) accompanied Marsden 's , put forward a theory to account for the results observed by Marsden .
He suggested that each -particle emitted by the radioactive collided with a number of active centres in the luminescent substance , each sion causing a flash of , and the destruction of the active centre .
Thus the scintillation due to a single -particle would be made up of a number of individual flashes each the destruction of one active centre .
It is clear on this theory that the luminosity will gradually decrease as the number of active centres is diminished by the continual action of the -particles , and that the decrease of luminosity will be exponential in the ecial case of a radioactive of constant activity , so that the brightness at any time is iven by , where is a constant .
The object of the paper is to examine the applicability of this theory to the results otained on samples of radium luminous compound studied over the course of a year at the National Physical Laboratory ( loc. ) .
Since practically the whole of the luminosity of a radium compound is due to -particles with their recoil atoms , it will be clear that the only products of importance are the radium itself , the emanation , radium , and radium , since these the only products ivin o-particles with ) exception of polonium , the effect of which , in the case of compound made up from freshly prepared radium , will be negligible at least for the first two years , owing to the long half-transformation period of the intermediate product radium D. This is shown by the following Table , which ives the percentage of radium ] present during the first five years of life of freshly prepared radium:\mdash ; " " The Phosphorescence produced by the and -Rays , \ldquo ; E. Marsden , ' .
So Proc , vol. 83 , p. 548 ( 1910 ) .
Mr. J. W. T. Walsh .
The Theory of Table I. ( years ) .
( percentageof Ba-activity .
Period Amount ocentage octivity opresent the roduced bpercentage oaand products ) The second column gives the number of atoms of radium present , expressed as a percentage of the number of atoms of radium present , while the third column gives the number of -particles due to the present , expressed as a percentage of the number emitted by the radium present .
The figures of column 4 represent the ionising powers of the present , expressed as a percentage of the corresponding ionising power of the radium present , together with its products as far as radium D. Now for practical purposes it may be assumed that the transformations of , and take place practically simultaneously with the transformation of the emanation , so that in new radium initially free from emanation , the growth of the emanation is accompanied by a rise in -ray activity such as would be caused if each atom of emanation , in its trans- formation , gave rise to three -particles producing , and ions respectively .
* Hence if , as in Rutherford 's theory , we suppose that the luminosity produced by an -particle is , other conditions being the same , vely nearly proportional to the number of ions it is capable of producing , we may regard each atom of emanation as responsible for , very approximately , four times the effect of an atom of radium alone which produces ions .
From this it is clear that when the emanation has attained equilibrium in a sample of luminous compound about one-fifth of the luminosity of the compound will be accounted for by the -rays from the radium , and four-fifths by those from the emanation and its products .
Calling this equilibrium amount unity , the amount of emanation present at any time after the compound has been prepared ( with radium absolutely free from emanation ) is iven by , where and is expressed in days .
The values of this function show that the amount of emanation present has , Rutherford , ' Radioactive Substances and their Radiations , ' p. 164 . .
cit. , p. 510 .
Decay in Radioactive Luminous Compounds .
attained its equilibrium value to within per cent. in a period of 50 days from the beginning .
Thus the rate of production of -particles at any time from the period at which the radium was free from emanation is given by the formula , where is the rate of production from the radium alone .
In the same way , taking into account the different ionising powers of the various -particles , the rate of production of light is given by , where is very nearly 4 , and is now the rate of pro- duction of light from the radium alone .
With this expression for the activity of the -radiation , we will now consider the variation with time of the luminosity of a sample of freshly prepared radium luminous compound .
3 .
of Exponential Decay of the Let us suppose that in a criven sample of radium compound the number of active centres present at time after preparation is The number destroyed in time is , let us suppose , , and this is proportional to ( i ) the number of active centres present , ; ( ii ) the rate of production of -particles , taking into account the several ionising powers of each ; ( iii ) the of time during which the bombardment takes place , Hence , ( 1 ) where is an arbitrary positive constant depending on the units adopted for and , and , possibly , on the composition of the zinc sulphide .
It is assumed that the light emitted is proportional to the number of active centres destroyed , each centre giving on the a definite fraction of a candle-hour at the instant of destruction .
The brightness , however , is proportional to the rate of destruction of the active centres , so that , ( 2 ) where is a constant relating the rate of destruction of the active centres with the brightness of the compound .
Hence we have a simple expression for the brightness at any period of the life , expressed in terms of the initial brightness , for .
( 3 ) Now it will be clear a priori that after the lapse of 50 days , the emanation having attained its equilibrium value , this equation will have the form Hence if represent the initial brightness which the compound would have Mr. J. W. T. Walsh .
The Theory of if made up with radium already in equilibrium with its disintegration products , therefore , , ( 4 ) where .
It will be noticed that it is not possible to the values of and , but only of the product , from this equilibrium portion of the curve .
The value assigned to will only the initial value ( up to 50 days ) , and for the purpose of calculating the earlier of the curves shown in fig. 1 , has been assumed equal to 4 see p. 555 Further , it will be clear that a concentration of active deposit on the walls of the glass containing vessels will produce an enhanced luminosity at the surfaces measured .
But again , once equilibrium in this respect has been attained , the only result will be an alteration in the value of , not a distortion of the form of the curve .
To test the validity of equations 3 and 4 , an example will be taken from the samples of compound of which the decay of luminosity was experimentally determined .
Sample 3 was measured from within two days of mixing the radium with the zinc sulphide .
If we first determine the constants from the values of luminosity obtained for a short section only of the life , say , between 50 and 200 days , it is found that the best value of is and of .
candle .
The probable departure of a single observation from the value given by equation 4 with these values of the constants is found to be per cent. , which is slightly outside the estimated experimental accuracy ( 3 per cent. to 4 per cent If , however , the most probable values of the constants be found from all the observations between 50 and 500 days , the new values are and The probable departure of a single observation from the calculated value found with these constants is per cent. The luminosity curves obtained by substituting these two sets of constants in equations 3 and 4 are shown graphically in by the chain and the broken line respectively .
) observed values are indicated by the points .
It will be seen that neither curve is of the shape required for satisfactory agreement with the observed results over an extended period , although good agreement over short periods of 100 to 150 days can be * From the first seven observations on sample 8 ( made up by a solution method ) the most probable value of was found to be Paterson , Walsh and Higgins , .
cit. Decay in Luminous Compounds .
exhibited by all the other specimens I00 200 300 400 500 in Da-ys FIG. l.\mdash ; Diagram showing , for sample 3 , the difference between values of luminosity and the logarithmic curves ( chain curve and broken line ) ; and the agreement between these values and the curve calculated on the theory of recover .
( full line ) .
4 .
The of The departure of the observed values of luminosity from the logarithmic curve cannot be explained by supposing that the active centres are of more than one kind , with different rates of decay , for the sum of any number of expressions of the form is an expression of the same form .
Further , it may be shown that the observed luminosity c.urve cannot be satisfactorily explained on the assumption that the radium from which the compound was prepared contained a proportion of the long period radium Mr. J. W. T. Walsh .
The Theory of so that it is necessary to find some other explanation for the form of the observed curve .
It is assumed in the original theory examined above that an active centre , once struck by an -particle with the emission of light , becomes of no further use from the point of view of luminescence .
In other words , there is no recovery of the active centres .
But now let us suppose that the active centres which have been used in this way commence to recover according to an exponential law , i.e. if be the number of active centres initially present , and the number present at any subsequent time , then the rate of recovery of the active centres will be proportional to the number of extinct centres , i.e. to .
We may deduce , on this assumption , a new expression for the luminosity of radium compound , allowing for ( i ) the growth of the -radiation ; ( ii ) the destruction of the active centres in the zinc sulphide under the action of the -rays ; and ( iii ) the radual recovery , according to an exponential law , of the destroyed active centres .
With the same notation as before , we have that the number of active centres destroyed in time by the action of the -rays is .
Also , the number restored in the same time is , where may be termed the " " recovery coefficient\ldquo ; ; hence the net rate of decrease in the number of active centres is .
( 5 ) Now as in equation ( 2 ) and Hence the above equation reduces to , ( 6 ) where .
The solution of this equation is where A is the constant of ration ( found by the condition that when , and .
The expression under the sign of integration becomes integrable after expansion , so that the solution becomes , where Decay in dioactive Luminous Compounds .
so that This equation does not readily lend itself to a determination of the constants and , even supposing known accurately , and hence we must use the simpler form of equation applicable for values of above 50 days , viz. , where is a fictitious value of and is the initial brightness which the compound would have had if it had been made up with radium already in equilibrium with its disintegration products .
This equation gives as its solution , ( 8 ) which shows that if be plotted against the result will be a straight line if .
The close agreement between this conclusion and actual observation is shown in fig. 2 , in which is plotted against for sample 3 of compound .
From the intercept of the line in this diagram on the axis of it is seen that so that and since therefore Substituting these values in equation ( 8 ) above , we have Reading off the curve in fig. 2 we find that , which , on substitution in the above equation , gives , so that .
It will be seen that once the diagram shown in is drawn it becomes easier to deduce the theoretical values of luminosity from 50 days onwards by reading off the curve than by calculation from the formula .
For the first 50 days , however , the full equation 7 must be employed .
Iu this way we may calculate the values of brightness throughout the life of the sample Mr. J. W. T. Walsh .
The Theory of assuming ) , and thus obtain the full-line curve shown in fig. ! .
The inset shows the values obtained for the first three months after I00 Z00 300 400 500 600 Ti in Day showing the agreement between the observed values of luminosity and the relationship It will be seen that the agreement with the observed points is very close and considerably greater than that given by any logarithmic of the simpler form .
The probable error of a single observation is in this case only per cent. At the same time , as has been said before , the agreement between the results given by the two formula over a limited range of 100 to 150 days is well within the error of experiment , so that it is necessary to make observations over extended periods in order to determine the true form of the curve and the values of and .
The curves calculated for the above sample of compound are shown , together with the observed values , in A sample mixed by a solution method ( where the probability of residual emanation is much less ) gave results in considerably closer agreement with the theoretical curve for , the first 20 days .
Paterson , Walsh , Higgins , sample This sample was not chosen for examination in this paper since the observations on it have not extended over so long a period .
Decay in Radioactive Luminous Compounds .
fig. 1 , where the broken lines represent the logarithmics and the full line the curve obtained by the use of the recovery factor .
It may be mentioned again that the term " " recovery\ldquo ; as used above is not intended to imply any knowledge of the mechanism of the action tending to retard the luminosity decay of a compound .
lt is simply employed as a convenient expression of a conception which , in conjunction with the " " active centre\ldquo ; theory of Rutherford , will serve to a relation capable of expressing the observed experimental results , and hence of , as in what follows , the behaviour of compounds as yet not subjected to experimental ation .
In the following Table are iven the values of the constants and for each of the samples of compound on which observations have been made :\mdash ; able II .
The experiments on samples 4 and 5 have not extended over a sufficiently long period to allow of a satisfactory determination of the constants of these samples .
The variations to be observed in the values of the constants for the different samples are to be ascribed to the different grades of zinc sulphide used by the various makers , or by the same maker at different times .
Only samples 1 and 2 were known to have been made from the same yrade of sulphide .
Two interesting applications of the theory described above are as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) From the diagram given on p. 555 it is easy to deduce the total light emitted by the sample of compound in a given time , since a surface with a brightness of one equivalent foot-candle emits light at the rate of candle per square inch ; the following Table gives the number of candle hours emitted by 1 square inch of luminous compound in powder form : .
J. W. T. Walsh .
The Theory of Table III .
Total number of candle Time from manufacture .
me rom manu acture .
hours emitted .
Per year s year ( 2 ) Suppose the values of and to be known for a compound of given radium-content , then for a compound of times this content , but with the same quality of zinc sulphide , the corresponding values will be and , for will be unaffected by the radium-content , being a property of the " " active centres\ldquo ; alone .
Hence for the first compound , while for the second , .
Now , from Table II on p. , it will be seen that samples 1 and 2 contain amounts of radium in the proportion of 32 : 17 .
These samples were made up at the same time with the same quality of zinc sulphide .
It will be noticed that is practically the same for both samples , while and are , to a very close approximation , in the ratio of the radium-contents .
Assuming the values iven in the Table for the constants of sample 1 , the value of calculated for sample 2 by the formula given above is 69 instead of 68 as observed .
In this connection it should be noticed that for samples 4 and 5* made up at the same time with radium contents in the ratio of 2 : 1 , the observations during the early part of the life showed that the initial ness was accurately in the same ratio as the The question of the relation between the characteristic constants and the radium-content of a sample of compound is one of the greatest importance .
On the simple theory of exponential decay it is clear that if the rate of decay be assumed proportional to the radium-content ( as it is approximately during the early part of the life ) a sample of high radium-content will decay at a more rapid rate than one of lower content .
Hence the luminosity curves will cross and ultimately the weaker compound will have the crreater luminosity .
This conclusion , however , is not borne out by experiment , and any conclusion based on it with regard to the most suitable radium-content for long-period use would be fallacious , for experiment has shown that the ultimate luminosities of compounds containing and mgrm . .
are practically equal .
From an examination of equation 8 on p. 557 it will be ' * Paterson , Walsh , and Higgins , .
cit. , p. 237 , fig. 11 .
Decay in Radioactive Luminous Cornpounds .
561 seen that a compound tends to an ultimate luminosity value given by Now , as is shown above , if and be proportional to the radium-content for a given zinc sulphide , we may investigate the relation between and the radium-content for any zinc sulphide of known characteristic constants .
Assuming , and equivalent foot-candle for a compound of content , it is easy to deduce the curve shown in fig. 3 , for the relation between the ultimate values of the luminosities and the radiumcontents of the samples .
From the curve it will be seen that , from the point of view of ultimate luminosity , there is no commensurate with the cost , in using a compound with a greater radium-content than , or at most mgrm .
08 IO I2 Radium Content FIG. 3.\mdash ; Curve showing relationship between radium content and ultiulate value of luminosit .
Mr. J. W. T. Walsh .
The Theory of APPENDIX .
The question of the use of mesothorium preparations in place of radium for luminous compound is of considerable interest and importance from a commercial point of view .
The theoretical treatment of the matter is , however , complicated by the fact that ( 1 ) mesothorium preparations are sold on a basis of -ray ctivity , and the ratio of this to the -ray activity varies throughout the life ; ( 2 ) there is always considerable contamination with radium ; and ( 3 ) the mesothorium itself is not acCive , but its product radiothorium is , so that to predict the behaviour of any compound containing mesothorium it is necessary to know the age of the preparation , i.e. , the quantity of radiothorium present .
From the values of the constants of mesothorium and its transformation products , it will be seen that for the present purpose these may , to a near approximation , be grouped under two heads as follows:\mdash ; Table Half transformation Transformation Number of ions produced Product .
period .
constant , .
by each -particle .
Radiothorium The -radiation of radiothorium and its products is , therefore , atom for atom , almost exactly seven times that from radium , or times that from radium in equilibrium with its products .
The actual -ray activity of a mesothorium preparation at any given period after time at which it was free from radiothorium is found as follows:\mdash ; * If the lber of atoms of inilially present , the number present after time , and the number of atonJs of radiothorium present after time , then where and The Table gives the proportions of mesothorium and radiothorium present during the first 10 years:\mdash ; * Rntherford , , p. 421 .
Decay in Radioactive Luminous ompounds .
Table Now considering a sample of mesothorium years old : and equation 7 , p. 507 , becomes , ( 9 ) also , and Hence we have where The solution of this equation is where .
The expression under the sig of ) ecolnes integrable on expansion , so that 564 The Theory of Decay in Luminous Compounds .
The expression on the right , however , is not rapidly for the first few terms , so that it is easier to deduce the luminosity curve of a sample of mesothorium paint by successive steps , using the differential equation given above .
This has been done for a number of cases of practical interest and the resulting curves are shown in the diagrams of fig. 4 as follows:\mdash ; OS .\mdash ; Theoretical luminosity curves of various samples of mesothorium compound Table .
hout the above calculations , the constants assumed for the zinc sulphide are those found in a typical sample of radium luminous compound .
The actual value assigned for and day year .
The value of ( lc'a ) in equation 9 given above is found from the relation It will be noticed that the life curves have been calculated on the basis of ' the initial luminosity only .
The actual amount of mesothorium ( expressed as Reflection of Light from Regularly tified Mediurn .
565 equivalent -ray activity of radium bromide ) is only obtainable from unpublished data relating the and -ray activities of radium and mesothorium .
Table In conclusion , the author would like to express his warmest thanks to Mr. C. C. Paterson for his kind interest and yement throughout the work .
On the Reflection of Light from a Regularly Stratifed JIedinm .
By LORD RAYLEIGII , O.M. , F.B.S. ( Received June 11 , 1917 .
) The remarkable coloured reflection from certain crystals of chlorate of potash described by Stokes , * the colours of old decomposed lass , and probably those of some beetles and butterflies , lend interest to the calculation of reflection from a regular stratification , in which the alternate strata , each uniform and of constant thickness , differ in refractivity .
The higher the number of strata , supposed perfectly regular , the nearer is the approach to homogeneity in the light of the favoured wave-lengths .
In a crystal of chlorate described by R. W. Wood , the purity observed would require some 700 alternations combined with a very high degree of regularity .
A general idea of what is to be expected may be arrived at by considering the case where a single reflection is very feeble , but when the component reflections are more vigorous , or when the number of alternations is very great , a more ' Roy .
Soc. Proc February , 1885 .
See also Rayleigh , 'Phil .
Mag vol. 24 , p. 145 ( 1887 ) , vol. 26 , pp. 241 , 256 1888 ) ; 'Scientific Papers , ' vol. 3 , pp. 1 , 190 , 204 , 264 .
VOL. XCIII.\mdash ; A. 2

