III .
" Fossil Mammals of Australia ( Part I. ) .
Description of a mutilated skull of a large Marsupial Carnivore ( Thylacoleo Carnifex , Ow .
) , from a conglomerate stratum , eighty miles S.W. of Melbourne , Australia .
" By Professor R. OWEN , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received September 18 , 1858 .
In this paper the author gives a description of a fossil skull and certain of the teeth of a quadruped of the size of a lion , in which he points out the characters indicative of its carnivorous habits and of its affinities to the marsupial order .
The large size of the temporal fossre , meeting to form a low crest on the parietal bone , and bounded behind by a strong occipital crest ; together with large carnassial teeth in both upper and lower jaws , evince the carnivorous habits of the extinct species .
Its marsupial nature is , in the author 's opinion , demonstrated by the following cranial structures:-A large vacuity in the bony palate ; a proportionally large lacrymal bone extending upon the face and perforated by the lacrymal canal , anterior and external to the orbit ; three external precondyloid foramina ; the perforation of the basisphenoid by the entocarotid canal ; the great interval between the foramen ovale and foramen rotundum ; the separation of the tympanic from the petrous bone ; and the development of the ' bulla auditoria ' in the alisphenoid ; the position of the outlet for a vein from the lateral sinus behind and above the root of ' the zygoma ; finally , the low and broad occiput , and the very small relative capacity of the brain-case .
In the marsupial order , the present large extinct Carnivore , for which the author proposes the name of Thylacoleo * carnifex , ' is most nearly allied to the Dasyurus ( Sarcophilus ) ursinus ; but is very different in its dentition from that and all existing Carnivora .
The fossils described were discovered by William Adeney , Esq. , in a calcareous conglomerate stratum in a bank of a lake situated 80 miles south-west of Melbourne , Australia .

