426 On the Sequence of Chemical Forms Stellar Spectra .
By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. ( Received October 17 , \#151 ; Read November 24 , 1910 .
) [ Plate 6 .
] Introduction .
In the Bakerian Lecture , 1873 , * after summarising the observations of stellar spectra and my laboratory researches which had been made up to that time , I wrote : " I have asked myself whether all the above facts cannot be grouped together in a working hypothesis which assumes that in the reversing layers of the sun and stars various degrees of celestial dissociation are at work .
" The phenomena revealed by the spectroscope seemed to afford a demonstration of the validity of Prout 's hypothesis , for so far as the stellar spectra were then known , hydrogen seemed to be the chief constituent of the hottest stars as judged by the extension of the spectrum into the ultra-violet .
In a letter to M. Dumasf I wrote .
" Plus un est chciude plus son spectre est simple .
" The idea that stars with different spectra were entirely composed of different chemical elements gave way to one in which the chemistry was a function of temperature only , the chemistry of all stars having the same basis .
I should here state that from the first I have used the term temperature as including electrical effects.^ In 1888 , in another Bakerian Lecture , S I brought together the various eye observations of the spectra of stars , comets , and nebulae which had been made by others up to that time , and showed that the discussion suggested the hypothesis that all celestial bodies are , or have been , swarms of meteorites , and that the difference between them is one of condensation only .
This hypothesis , instead of locating the highest temperature at the commencement of the evolution as demanded by Laplace 's hypothesis , placed it much later .
Hence bodies of increasing temperature were demanded as well as bodies of decreasing temperature .
In 1892|| I gave an account of the work carried on up to that year in the Solar Physics Observatory on the photographic spectra of stars , and I laid * ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 164 , Part 2 , p. 480 et seq. t ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1873 , vol. 77 , p. 1347 .
% ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1874 , vol. 22 , p. 372 .
S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 44 , p. 1 et seq. || 'Phil .
Trans. , ' vol. 184 , pp. 675\#151 ; 726 .
On the Sequence of Chemical Forms Stellar Spectra .
427 before the Royal Society a classification of stars based on the then known chemistry and the extension of the spectra into the ultra-violet so far as it could be determined when glass prisms and lenses were used .
I divided the stars into groups and sub-groups , and pointed out that , as more photographs became available , the sub-groups would in all probability become divisible into species .
By 1897 the problem had entered into a new stage .
I had in the meantime published the complete spectra of the cleveite gases , including helium , which Ramsay had run to earth , * and by the use of a large coil had discovered a new series of lines , which I termed " enhanced lines , " in the spectrum of iron.f By the continuation of this work most of the unknown lines in the spectra of the stars were identified , and stars were found the spectra of which contained the enhanced lines of various metallic elements without the arc lines .
The research could therefore be continued on a much wider basis .
This was done , and 1897 I laid before the Society a memoir on the chemistry of the hottest stars .
| At the end of that memoir I wrote : " The above conclusions , based on laboratory , solar , and stellar evidence , all tending in the same direction , may be regarded as the result obtained so far in regard to the ' celestial dissociation ' which I pictured to myself in 1873 .
I claim that each step in the work has demonstrated the truth of that hypothesis more and more , and that we can now acknowledge that the phenomena of the inorganic world are dominated by an evolution not less majestic , although more simple , than that now universally accepted in the case of organic nature .
" More recently ( 1905)S I have checked the chemical classification by studying the physical condition of stars , using a calcite-quartz optical train to obtain photographs of the extension of the spectra of each chemical group of stars into the ultra-violet on the same plate and under equal conditions of atmosphere and altitude .
I found absolute parallelism between the two series of photographs .
This , of course , confirmed the prior chemical results .
It is to be remarked that the study of temperature effects in the stars is much more simple and effective than their study in the laboratory , as in the laboratory the effects produced at low temperature are always present , while in the hotter stars , the lowest temperatures where the phenomena observed are produced , may be taken as anything between 5,000 ' and 20,000 ' C. There is thus a complete shielding from the effects produced at low temperatures .
* * * S * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. ' 1895 , vols .
58 and 59 , several papers .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 60 , p. 475 .
X 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 , p. 148 .
S ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 76 , p. 145 et Sir N. Lockyer .
Sequence of [ Oct. 17 , Recent Work on the Classification of Stars .
The more recent researches with better photographs and with increased knowledge of the changes in spectra have enabled me to carry the classification into finer details , and to observe with greater certainty the heat levels at which various chemical forms are predominant .
By the term " chemical forms " I mean the molecular grouping , as I termed it 40 years ago ( or the corpuscular grouping , as perhaps it may be called now after the recent discoveries of J. J. Thomson , Becquerel , Curie , Bamsay , Butherford , and others ) , associated with a special group of lines made visible or more obvious by an increase of temperature in the spectrum of a so-called element which , in the spectrum of a star , is seen without the low temperature effects for the reason above stated .
In order to make clear the diagrams in which the new results are shown , we may consider a series of furnaces in the spectra of which , on the dissociation theory , the hottest gives the final result of the simplification brought about by temperature .
In each furnace we shall have , as shown by Erankland and myself in 1869 , * the chemical form produced in greatest quantity by each temperature indicated by the most widened line , while in the complete spectrum of the mixture of vapours in each furnace the relative thickness of lines will be an indication of the percentage composition !
qud the various chemical forms .
The Chemical Forms a Various Heal Levels .
With regard to the spectral lines of the various chemical forms now in question , we have:\#151 ; Metals .
Enhanced lines^i These are seen separately in stellar spectra .
Arc lines J Hydrogen .
Pickering 's series ' !
These are seen almost geparateiy .
Ordinary series J Silicium.\#151 ; Four groups of lines have been made out , some seen separately .
Carbon.\#151 ; Two groups of lines seen separately .
Sulphur.\#151 ; Two groups of lines seen separately .
Nitrogen.\#151 ; Two groups of lines seen separately .
Fig. 1 shows the various heat horizons at which , in the stars , each chemical form is most predominant ; I deal only with the series of stars of rising temperatures .
The range of each form is also shown .
From the furnace analogy we may conclude that at these horizons , owing to the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 17 , p. 288 .
t 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1872 , vol. 163 , p. 639 .
1910 .
] Chemical Forms in Stellar Spectra .
heat conditions , each form predominates in turn , owing to a balance between the effects of association and dissociation .
It is most important to observe that in no case is there any break along the line of range , or a double maximum .
In this we have most cogent evidence of the continuous working of a law .
As we ascend in temperature we find one form giving way to another .
B fist e I f O .1 2 So S0 2 -S S c JB *2^ a 4= x 4= 3 $ e ( LtflOZO(/ )(/ )X\lt ; 0 S c V Z WQ .
ill !
9is \amp ; \#163 ; c e \#163 ; M % \#163 ; * ^ \#163 ; % i ill !
fli-5 fo p _ Argoniaa A ( frPuRPt\#187 ; ) \#165 ; Ainitamiaa\#169 ; ( \#163 ; Orioni\#187 ; ) Alnitamian(i ) ( K Orioni* ) Crucian .
( / Orionis ) Rigelian .
( p Orion is ) Cygnian ( a Cygni ) Polarian .
( a Ur** .
Minonig ) Aktebarian .
( \#171 ; Taur\#187 ; ) Antarian ( oHlrcuus ) Fig. 1.\#151 ; Showing the heat levels at which the various chemical forms predominate , and also the range through the stellar groups .
The new results , while entirely in harmony with the old ones , enable us to recognise better than before the stellar demonstration of that celestial dissociation which was first glimpsed in 1873 .
It must be borne in mind that the record at present is very incomplete .
Many of the rarer elements have not yet been studied , the regions in the red and ultra-violet have yet to be explored ; only the brighter stars give us spectra which can be discussed in detail .
Sir N. Lockyer .
On the Sequence [ Oct. 17 , Special Study of the Stars .
In the classification and catalogue of 470 of the brighter stars published in 1902 , * I divided the stars into 16 groups .
I had previously stated that sub-divisions must come with better photographs and more knowledge .
The new work has enabled me to make a step in this direction .
Already the Alnitamian stars have been divided into four species .
The facts on which this advance is based are shown in fig. 2 , in which the various Alnitamian stages are shown in relation to stars higher and lower in temperature , so that the sequence of phenomena may be more completely followed .
ASCENDING SIDE Alnitamian ( DO ( l Oaionis ) ALNITAtflAN(Bl ) ( tOWONlS ) ALNITAMIAN( !
I ) ( c-OrioniO ALNlTAMIAN(Iy ( K 0RI0NI8 ) Crucian ( Blu.atr.ix ) Riceuan a r O v !
I E % I \#163 ; ii i \amp ; c I !
\#163 ; O T Z \#163 ; ' ?
5 * ' Fig. 2.\#151 ; Showing the sequence in intensity of typical lines of various chemical forms through the spectra of some of the higher-temperature stars .
Stars with Peculiar Spectra .
The continuation of these researches into the finer details of stellar spectra , in conjunction with laboratory work , is certain to afford help in other directions , notably that dealing with stars showing peculiar spectra .
* Publications of the Solar Physics Committee .
Chemical Forms in Stellar Spectra .
1910 .
] The Henry Draper Memorial researches , under the strenuous direction of Prof. Pickering , have already made us acquainted with a large number of such spectra ; unfortunately most of them are of stars so faint as to be beyond the instrumental means at the disposal of the Solar Physics Observatory .
They therefore are not included in the catalogue .
But the delicate changes in the spectra of four Alnitamian stars above recorded really provide us with cases of peculiar spectra , and we have now run home the causes of the peculiarities .
In e Orionis we have a predominance of silicium IV , in k Orionis a predominance of oxygen , in i Orionis a predominance of proto-hydrogen , representing three different temperatures at which these particular chemical forms are produced at the expense of others , which have been driven out of existence by the rise of temperature .
The larger the number of chemical forms produced by the dissociation at work , the more numerous must be the minute changes in the spectra if we can only study and record them .
In the Alnitamian stars we are dealing with increasing temperatures .
On the hypothesis put forward in 1888 the stars with rising temperature are much less condensed\#151 ; are much nearer the nebular stage\#151 ; than those on the opposite descending arm of the temperature curve ; in these latter only can we postulate such a restricted region of absorption as that lying above the photosphere of the sun , which is certainly reducing its temperature and approaching extinction .
This view has been strengthened by the recent researches of Prof. Eussell , Director of the Princeton Observatory , on the parallaxes , brilliancy , proper motion and spectral types of stars.* He concludes that there ought to be two distinct kinds of red and orange stars greatly differing in condensation , and that " in the intermediate stages the star would be hotter , passing through orange and yellow to white , and back to red as it approaches extinction .
" In spite of these different conditions , however , so much are they dominated by temperature that it is temperature and not the other conditions which is effective in producing the spectrum , so similar are the spectra at equal temperatures , whether their temperature is rising or falling , that without the guidance afforded by the different behaviour of the hydrogen lines it would be difficult in the case of the hotter stars to separate the two series .
( See Plate 6 , fig. 3 .
) We have already , in a research on the spectrum of e Ursae Majoris , found another star with a peculiar spectrum ; this star , unlike Alnitam , is cooling .
Its temperature is such that the spectrum of proto-chromium is considerably more developed than in stars of either higher or lower temperature .
* ' Amer .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' 1910 , vol. 49 , p. 230 .
432 On the Sequence of Chemical Forms in Stellar Spectra .
Other variations from the normal Sirian type in the case of this particular star are the absence of the strong barium line X 4554'2 and the weakening of r 4198*2 the silicium II lines \lt ; The strengthening in e Ursse Majoris of the proto-chromium lines and the absence of the barium line are indicated in Plate 6 , fig. 4 .
Other Possible Causes of Peculiarity .
In some stars ( a Andromedse , g Leporis , 0 Aurigse and a Canum Venati-corum ) the peculiarity arises from the presence of sets of lines not yet revealed in the laboratory .
The question arises whether some of the other peculiarities may not arise from the fact that we are dealing with close doubles .
Atomic Weights Involved .
I must point out that the chemical forms thus far traced in the stars are associated with the so-called elements having a relatively low atomic weight , and also that , while the evidence for oxygen and nitrogen is now complete , so far the series of atmospheric gases discovered by Kamsay have not been found .
My best thanks are due to Mr. Baxandall , A.R.C.Sc .
, First Assistant , for the determination of most of the wave-lengths of lines involved in the discussion and for the examination of the photographs .
The more recent stellar photographs have been taken by Messrs. Baxandall , Butler , Rolston , Moss , and Goodson .
The enlargements for purposes of comparison have been made by Mr. Wilkie .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Showing the variation in thickness of the hydrogen lines and the similarity of the finer lines in stars of about the same heat level , but on different sides of the stellar temperature curve .
Comparison of two Sirian spectra ( one of normal type , the other peculiar ) , showing the increased prominence of proto-chromium lines and the absence of the barium line 4554'2 in e Ursae Majoris ( peculiar ) .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Fig. 4.\#151 ; Lockyer .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , A. 84 , Plate 6 .
Ha .
r Fig. 3 .
Barium spark .
a Oanis Majoris .
Sirian spectrum ( normal ) .
e Ursae Majoris .
Sirian spectrum ( peculiar ) .
( Jr spark .
Or arc .
Fig. 4 .

