251 1886 .
" ] Effects of the Spectrum on Silver Salts .
pump below F to the apparatus attached to M ; but when the opening p is turned away from the groove the pump is cut off .
Suppose now that above p there is a vacuum , and that p is turned round so as to cut off the pump .
Let the stopper at C be cautiously raised .
Mercury flows from the cup C , and in the first place fills up the space below , and fresh mercury must be supplied to the cup and the supply kept up .
The whole of the lower part of the space being filled , the mercury rises in the tube CB , lifts the glass float , and closes the opening aa with great pressure .
To hold up the stopper at C during the flowing in of the mercury requires considerable force with an opening at C of an ordinary size ; but as soon as the whole space from aa down to the bottom of D has been filled , the part of this force which is due to air pressure vanishes , and the stopper may be separated from C safely .
The mercury in the tube AB does not drop out , as the orifice at e is very small ; and thus there is nothing to prevent the apparatus under exhaustion being handled in any way that may be desired .
When the apparatus is to be reconnected with the pump , it is only necessary to replace the stopper in the cup C , and turn the hole p round to meet its groove .
The mercury in the tube AB then drops into the pump .
The float falls into its lowest position , and everything is once more as it was before the removal of the apparatus from the pump .
III .
" Comparative Effects of different parts of the Spectrum on Silver Salts .
" By Captain W. de W. Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received March 2 , 1886 .
In 1881 I communicated to the Royal Society ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 33 ) the results of a research I had made on the comparative effects of different parts of the spectrum on the haloid salts of silver , and I pointed out that a mixture of iodide and chloride , and iodide and bromide of silver gave rise to a very curious photographic spectrum , a minimum of action taking place at Gf , the point where the iodide is mostly affected , two maxima consequently occurring .
1 also gave some theoretical reasons why this should be .
About a year afterwards Herr Schumann , of Leipzic , called in question this result , as applied to bromo-iodide of silver , when the two salts were formed simultaneously , i.e. , when mixtures in water of soluble bromides and iodides were precipitated together by silver nitrate .
He subsequently found that a mixture of the two salts after separate precipitation did give rise to a double maximum .
How my own experiments showed that in either case such double maxima existed , but perhaps Captain W. de W. Abney .
Effects of [ Mar. 18 , they were more marked when the salts were precipitated separately .
The only method at that time available to distinguish the maxima was by the appearance of a negative photograph of the spectrum impressed upon it , and hence there was a liability to he deceived , since densities in deposit which are nearly alike are apt to be over looked .
I utilised my method ( " Phil. Mag. , " 1885 ) of obtaining patches of monochromatic light from the spectrum , in examining afresh different salts of silver as regards sensitiveness to different rays .
The experiments were conducted in the following manner:\#151 ; A sensi-tometer , designed by Mr. Spurge , was brought into use ( " Photographic Journal , " 1882 , vol. vi ) .
This consists of a series of small chambers , about 1 cm .
square in section , and 2 cm .
deep .
Below these chambers is a sheet of brass , punctured as shown in the figure , each such puncture corresponding with the square chamber .
Numbers are also punctured in the brass triangle , to correspond to the order of intensity in which the light is admitted to each chamber .
Below this brass plate can be placed a sensitive plate to be tested .
The tops of the chambers are also closed by a brass plate , in which holes of different diameters are punctured .
The area of each hole is .v/ 2 that of the next , and the total number of chambers is 30 .
It will be thus seen that the difference in light from an equally illuminated surface admitted to the first and last holes is immense .
To obtain a surface equally illuminated two sheets of finely ground glass were used , one placed about one-eighth of an inch from the holes , and the other about a centimetre away from the first .
It was found \amp ; 1886 .
] Different Parts of the Spectrum on Silver Salts .
253 that when the outside ground glass was illuminated by a candle about 3 feet away , the light shading every part of the bottom of each chamber was for all practical purposes uniform .
A patch of monochromatic solar light from one part of the spectrum was then thrown on the ground glass , and an exposure of 30 seconds given to a plate in contact with the brass punctured plate at the bottom of the chambers .
Another portion of the spectrum was next thrown on a fresh sensitive surface , and a similar operation carried out , and so on till the whole of the range of the spectrum had been utilised .
In each set of experiments it is scarcely needful to remark the same batch of plates was employed .
All the plates were developed together for the same length of time , and the number of the chamber noted where no photographic action was visible .
Thus if No. 8 showed a trace of photographic action , and No. 9 showed none , No. 9 was taken as a measure .
All these numbers were then tabulated , and the admitted light calculated .
Another series of experiments were then conducted precisely as before , the length of exposure being varied , and the numbers observed were again tabulated and compared with the first set .
A third series was then taken , and a mean of the results taken .
The plates were next fixed and the numbers read , and the light again calculated , with the result that the mean corresponded with the first mean .
As a final check , each set of plates were printed on uniformly sensitised paper , and the gradations obtained by the method described in my Treatise on Photography ( Longmans ) .
The results obtained were almost identical with the first means .
Various salts of silver and combinations of salts were tried , but I need only give one , which is that which has been disputed .
The figure gives a graphic description of the results obtained .
This series of plates was prepared with a mixture of 6 per cent , of iodide , and 94 per cent , of bromide of silver , and the two were precipitated together .
It was somewhat difficult in a photograph of the spectrum , containing but little iodide , to be sure of this dip at G , owing to the occurrence of Fraunhofer lines .
The method adopted brings the dip clearly into view .
It might be thought that the strong band of lines near G produced it , but such is not the case , as pure bromide of silver without any admixture of iodide did not show it , and the one maximum of sensitiveness it had lay nearer G. In the mixed salt which was experimented upon we thus still get two maxima , though the percentage of iodide and bromide is but small .
The same line of argument which was applied in the paper I have already referred to as to the cause of this dip near G , still therefore applies .
On Matter in the Gaseous and Liquid States .
[ Mar. 18 , Table of Intensities .
Scale No. Intensity .
26 30 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
43-0 31 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
75-0 32 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
100-0 33 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
95-0 34 ... ... ... ... ... ... 66 '5 35 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
43-0 36 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
37-5 37 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
25-0 38 ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
33-5 39 28-5 40 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
25-0 41 20-0 42 ... ... ... ... ... ... .
18-0 46 10-0 IV .
" On the Properties of Matter in the Gaseous and Liquid States under various conditions of Temperature and Pressure .
" By the late Thomas Andrews , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Communieated by the President .
Received February 7 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The following are the general conclusions to which this inquiry has led:\#151 ; 1 .
The law of gaseous mixtures , as enunciated by Dalton , is largely deviated from in the case of mixtures of nitrogen and carbonic acid at high pressures , and is probably only strictly true when applied to mixtures of gases in the so-called perfect state .
2 .
The critical point of temperature is lowered by admixture with a permanent gas .
3 .
When carbonic acid gas and nitrogen diffuse into each other at high pressures , the volume of the mixture is increased .
4 .
In a mixture of liquid carbonic acid and nitrogen at temperatures not greatly below the critical point , the liquid surface loses its curvature , and is effaced by the application of pressure alone , while at lower temperatures the nitrogen is absorbed in the ordinary way , and the curvature of the liquid surface is preserved so long as any portion of the gas is visible .

