l !
79 .
] On the Rate of Vibration of Tuning Forks .
291 '^11 ||ji ,9 " On the Determination of the Rate o\#177 ; Vibration of Tuning* Forks .
" By Herbert McLeod , F.C.S. , and George ^ Sydenham Clarke , Lieut. R.E. Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received January 16 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) / ' The paper contains a description of some experiments made with \gt ; iview to determine the absolute pitch of tuning forks by means of method proposed by the writers in a previous paper ( " Proc. Roy .
vol. xxvi , p. 162 ) . . ?
j It commences with a description of the time measurer adopted , , insisting of a compensated pendulum , worked by electricity , the mpulse being given by a driver depending for its action on gravity alone .
The pendulum is arranged to give second contacts , driving a oiock wheel with sixty teeth .
This wheel has a platinum pin giving minute contacts , but it is used merely as a switch , the circuit being losed by the pendulum itself .
The current works a relay , and closes * he circuit required .
I The tuning fork apparatus consists of a brass drum resting oil riction wheels , and driven by a weight and train .
Uniformity of notion being of great importance , an air-regulator , consisting of a fan \gt ; nclosed in the lower compartment of a cylindrical box , is employed .
3y means of a diaphragm and vanes the fan can be made to do more \gt ; r less work by pumping air from the lower into the upper compart-nent .
The fan spindle carries a pulley driven by a thread passing furound the drum . .
Round one end of the drum are wrapped strips of paper on which white equidistant lines have been so ruled that they are parallel to* Hfche axis of the drum when the strips are in position .
The strip most ^'frequently used has 486 lines round tha complete circumference of the mdrum .
Opposite this graduated strip is placed a microscope with its-axis horizontal .
In the substage is placed a objective , producing an image of the graduations at the focus of the object-glass of the i instrument .
At the common focus of the two lenses is placed the hf tuning fork , the stem of which is held vertical in a vice .
The fork is-partially enclosed in a glass case , and is so adjusted that the image of one of its limbs seems to cut the image of the graduations at right i angles .
The fork is set in motion by a suspended double-bass bow .
\#166 ; If when the fork is in vibration the drum is made to rotate with such a velocity that one of the graduations passes over the interval between ?
two adjacent graduations in the time of one vibration of the fork , a i stationary wave is seen of length equal to the length of that interval .
I To determine the number of vibrations of the fork in a given time , it Mr. C. W. Siemens certain means of is only necessary , therefore , to be able to count the number of gradui m Rons which pass in that period .
As a perfectly uniform rotation hi not been obtained , a regulator under the control of the operator o employed .
This consists merely of a piece of string which pass* r round the axis of the drum , and also round a pulley which can 1 turned by the operator 's left hand .
An upward or downward motion m of the wave denotes that the drum is going too fast or too slow , an by means of the pulley a gentle check or acceleration sufficient to kee i the wave steady is given to the drum .
An electric counter gives the number of complete revolutions accom plished by the drum in any given period , and a fine-pointed tube f .containing magenta , is carried by a saddle above the drum , and bein ; \#166 ; ; actuated by an electro-magnet , makes a dot on a piece of white pape : ; \lt ; f wrapped round the drum at the beginning and end of the experiment p The distance apart of these dots gives the additional fraction of a revo I lution accomplished by the drum during the period of the experiment e Electric circuits are so arranged that a reverser turned a few seconds i before the minute at which it is intended to begin the experiment , e .causes a current to be sent exactly at that minute by the clock relay which starts the electric counter , and also makes a dot on the drumji| Just before the expiration of the last minute of the experiment , the 1 reverser is turned in the opposite direction , and at the expiration of that minute the counter is stopped , and a second mark made on the f| .drum .
Some of the results obtained with different forks are given .
The results of further experiments made to determine the effect of temperature , of continuous and intermittent bowing , and of the mode | \#166 ; of fixing the fork are appended .
An optical method by which two slightly dissonant forks may be f compared without altering the period of either , is described .
Figures and diagrams folly explaining the apparatus employed , * !
accompany the paper .
IV .
" On certain means of Measuring and Regulating Electric Currents .
" By C. William Siemens , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received January 16 , 1879 .
[ Plates 4 , 5 .
] The dynamo-electric machine furnishes us with a means of producing electric currents of great magnitude , and it has become a matter of importance to measure and regulate the proportionate amount of current that shall be permitted to flow through any branch circuit , especially in such applications as the distribution of light and mechanical force .

