126 Mr. 0 .
Heaviside .
On the Forces , Stresses , and [ June 18 , flame of an oil-flame cannot be altogether deprived of its yellow luminous tip , without serious risk of total extinction ; and this faint luminosity is sufficient to prevent pale caps from being seen .
From further experiments made in the above testing chamber with flames produced by alcohol and by hydrogen , it was found to be true in practice , as might be inferred from theory , that , if the flame was pale and practically non-luminous , the size and definition of the flame-cap was augmented by increasing either the size or the temperature of the flame .
It is quite possible by attending to these conditions to obtain a flame which , although it is very sensitive for low percentages of gas , becomes unsuitable for the measurement of any proportion of gas exceeding 3 per cent. This must , for the general purposes of the miner , be looked upon as a defect ; but it is not a fault of the lamp already referred to .
It is of interest to note that with the Pieler spirit-lamp a flame-cap an inch in height was seen in air containing only 0'5 per cent , of methane .
Y. " On the Forces , Stresses , and Fluxes of Energy in the Electromagnetic Field .
" By Oliver Heaviside , F.R.S. Received June 9 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The abstract nature of this paper renders its adequate abstraction difficult .
The principle of conservation of energy , when applied to a theory such as Maxwell 's , which postulates the definite localisation of energy , takes a more special form , viz. , that of the continuity of energy .
Its general nature is discussed .
The relativity of motion forbids us to go so far as to assume the objectivity of energy , and to identify energy , like matter ; hence the expression of the principle is less precise than that of the continuity of matter ( as in hydrodynamics ) , for all we can say in general is that the convergence of the flux of energy equals the rate of increase of the density of the energy ; the flux of the energy being made up partly of the mere convection of energy by motion of the matter ( or other medium ) with which it is associated localisably , and partly of energy which is transferred through the medium in other ways , as by the activity of a stress , for example , not obviously ( if at all ) representable as the convection of energy .
Gravitational energy is the chief difficulty in the way of the carrying out of the principle .
It must come from the ether ( for where else can it come from ?
) , when it goes to matter ; but we are entirely ignorant of the manner of its distribution and transference .
But , whenever energy can be localised , the principle of continuity of energy is ( in spite of certain drawbacks connected with the circuital flow of energy ) a valuable principle which should be utilised to the 1891.1 Fluxes of Energy in the Electromagnetic Field .
127 uttermost .
Practical forms are considered .
In the electromagnetic application the flux of energy has a four-fold make-up , viz. , the Poynting flux of energy , which occurs whether the medium be stationary or moving ; the flux of energy due to the activity of the electromagnetic stress when the medium is moving ; the convection of electric and magnetic energy ; and the convection of other energy associated with the working of the translational force due to the stress .
As Electro-magnetism swarms with vectors , the proper language for its expression and investigation is the Algebra of Vectors .
An account is therefore given of the method employed by the author for some years past .
The quaternionic basis is rejected , and the algebra is based upon a few definitions of notation merely .
It may be regarded as Quaternions without quaternions , and simplified to the uttermost ; or else as being merely a conveniently condensed expression of the Cartesian mathematics , understandable by all who are acquainted with Cartesian methods , and with which the vectorial algebra is made to harmonise .
It is confidently recommended as a practical working system .
In continuation thereof , and preliminary to the examination of electromagnetic stresses , the theory of stresses of the general type , that is , rotational , is considered ; and also the stress activity , and flux of energy ; and its convergence and division into translational , rotational , and distortional parts ; all of which , it is pointed out , may be associated with stored potential , kinetic , and wasted energy , at least so far as the mathematics is concerned .
The electromagnetic equations are then introduced , using them in the author 's general forms , i.e. , an extended form of Maxwell 's circuital law , defining electric current in terms of magnetic force , and a companion equation expressing the second circuital law ; this method replacing Maxwell 's in terms of the vector potential and the electrostatic potential , Maxwell 's equations of propagation being found impossible to work and not sufficiently general .
The equation of activity is then derived in as general a form as possible , including the effects of impressed forces and intrinsic magnetisation , for a stationary medium which may be eolotropic or not .
Application of the principle of continuity of energy then immediately indicates that the flux of energy in the field is represented by the formula first discovered by Poynting .
Next , the equation of activity for a moving medium is considered .
It does not immediately indicate the flux of energy , and , in fact , several transformations are required before it is brought to a fully significant form , indicating ( 1 ) the Poynting flux , the form of which is settled ; ( 2 ) the convection of electric and magnetic energy ; ( 3 ) a flux of energy which , from the form in which the velocity of the medium enters , represents the flux of energy due 128 On Energy in the Electromagnetic Field .
[ June 18 , to a working stress .
Like the Poynting flux , it contains vector products .
Prom this flux the stress itself is derived , and the form of translational force , previously tentatively developed , is verified .
It is assumed that the medium in its motion carries its properties with .it unchanged .
A side matter which is discussed is the proper measure of " true " electric current , in accordance with the continuity of energy .
It has a four-fold make-up , viz. , the conduction current , displacement current , convection current ( or moving electrification ) , and the curl of the motional magnetic force .
The stress is divisible into an electric and a magnetic stress .
These are of the rotational type in eolotropic media .
They do not agree with Maxwell 's general stresses , though they work down to them in an isotropic homogeneous stationary medium not intrinsically magnetised or electrised , being then the well-known tensions in certain lines with equal lateral pressures .
Another and shorter derivation of the stress is then given , guided by the previous , without developing the expression for the flux of energy .
Variations of the properties permittivity and inductivity with the strain can be allowed for .
An investigation by Professor H. Hertz is referred to .
His stress is not agreed with , and it is pointed out that the assumption by which it is obtained is equivalent to the existence of isotropy , so that its generality is desti'oyed .
The obvious validity of the assumption on which the distortional activity of the stress is calculated is also questioned .
Another form of the stress vector is examined , showing its relation to the fictitious electrification and magnetic current , magnetification and electric current , produced on the boundary of a region by terminating the stress thereupon ; and its relation to the theory of action at a distance between the respective matters and currents .
The stress subject is then considered statically .
The problem is now perfectly indeterminate , in the absence of a complete experimental knowledge of the strains set up in bodies under electric and magnetic influence .
Only the stress in the air outside magnets and conductors can be considered known .
Any stress within them may be superadded , without any difference being made in the resultant forces and torques .
Several stress formulae are given , showing a transition from one extreme form to another .
A simple example is worked out to illustrate the different ways in which Maxwell 's stress and others explain the mechanical actions .
Maxwell 's stress , which involves a translational force on magnetised matter ( even when only inductively magnetised ) , merely because it is magnetised , leads to a very complicated and unnatural way of explanation .
It is argued , independently , that no stress formula should be allowed which indicates a translational force of the kind just mentioned .
1891 .
] Comparison of Simultaneous Magnetic Disturbances .
129 Still the matter is left indeterminate from the statical standpoint .
From the dynamical standpoint , however , we are led to a certain definite stress distribution , which is also , fortunately , free from the above objection , and is harmonised with the flux of energy .
A peculiarity is the way the force on an intrinsic magnet is represented .
It is not by force on its poles , nor on its interior , but on its sides , referring to a simple case of uniform longitudinal magnetisation ; i.e. , it is done by a electromagnetic force on the fictitious electric current which would produce the same distribution of induction as the magnet does .
There is also a force where the inductivity varies .
This force on fictitious current harmonises with the conclusion previously arrived at by the author that , when impressed forces set up disturbances , such disturbances are determined by the curl of the impressed forces , and proceed from their localities .
In conclusion it is pointed out that the determinateness of the stress rests upon the assumed localisation of the energy and the two laws of circuitation , so that with other distributions of the energy ( of the same proper total amounts ) other results would follow ; but the author has been unable to produce full harmony in any other way than that followed .
VI .
''Comparison of Simultaneous Magnetic Disturbances at several Observatories , and Determination of the Value of the Gaussian Functions for those Observatories .
" By W. Grylls Adams , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in King 's College , London .
Received June 11 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) After drawing attention to previous investigations on this subject , and pointing out the importance of adopting the same scale values for similar instruments at different Observatories , especially at new Observatories which have been recently established , the discussion of special magnetic disturbances is undertaken , especially the disturbances of a great magnetic storm which occurred on June 24 and 25 , 1885 , for which photographic records have been obtained from 17 different Observatories : 11 in Europe , 1 in Canada , 1 in India , 1 in China , 1 in Java , 1 at Mauritius , and 1 at Melbourne .
The records are discussed and compared , tables are formed of the simultaneous disturbances , and the traces are reduced to Greenwich mean time and brought together on the same plates arranged on the same time-scale .
Plates I and II show the remarkable agreement between the disturbances at the different Observatories , and the VOL. l. K

