220 The Mammalian Spinal Cord as an Organ of Reflex Action .
April 1 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Professor Johannes Wi slicemis was balloted for and elected a Foreign Member of the Society .
The Croonian Lecture , " The Mammalian Spinal Cord as an Organ of Reflex Action , " was delivered by Dr. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. CROONIAN Lecture.\#151 ; " The Mammalian Spinal Cord as an Organ of Reflex Action .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Holt Professor of Physiology , University College , Liverpool .
( Abstract .
) The channels of connection between spinal nerve-centres .
Long spinal reflex paths and short spinal reflex paths .
The First Law of Pfluger : examples of it and exceptions to it ; relation between it and microscopical features of the cord .
The Second Law of Pfluger : examples of it and exceptions to it ; the crossed knee jerk .
The Third Law of Pfluger : examples of it and exceptions to it .
The Fourth Law of Pfluger : examples of it and exceptions to it ; influence of semisection upon the conductions .
The contradistinction drawn between spinal reflexes and cortical reactions .
The interpretation of purposive character of spinal reflexes .
Relation of the reflexes to progression .
The solidarity of the isolated spinal cord as a " reflex " organ .
Some characters of spinal reflex movements .
Changes induced in reflex actions by shifting the site of transection from upper bulbar to infra bulbar situations .
The correlation augmentations with inhibitions .
Influence of the afferent spinal root on willed movements , on cortical reactions , on tonus , on rigor mortis , on knee jerk .
Areal induction ( simultaneous contrast ) as a spinal phenomenon .
Influence of afferent roots on spasm , on spinal reflexes .
Proceedings and List Papers read .
Is the efficiency of the afferent root as an excitor of reflexes influenced by distal severance of it ?
Double conduction in the central nervous system ; information as to the connections of the long ascending fibres of the dorsal columns .
The locus of incidence of areal induction in the synapse .
A particular case in regard to the relation between afferent and efferent neui'ons is offered by the eye-muscles .
The source of tonus of the eye-muscles .
The importance of afferent roots to muscular activity .
The distinction between anaesthesia and apaesthesia .
The question of the independent excitability of the motor neuron .
April 8 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " The Production of X Rays of different Penetrative Values .
" By A. A. C. Swinton .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. II .
" Photographic Spectra of Stars to the 3| Magnitude .
" By F. McClean , F.R.S. III .
" Condensation of Water Vapour in the Presence of Dust-free Air and other Gases .
" By C. T. R. Wilson , B.Sc. ( Viet .
) , M.A. ( Cantab .
) , of Sydney Sussex College , Clerk-Maxwell Student in the Dniversity of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. IV .
" Double ( Antidrome ) Conduction in the Central Nervous System .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Holt Professor of Physiology , University College , Liverpool .
V. " Further Note on the Sensory Nerves of Muscles .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , Holt Professor of Physiology in University College , Liverpool .
VI .
" On the Breaking-up of Fat in the Alimentary Canal under Normal Circumstances and in the Absence of the Pancreas .
" By Vaughan Harley , M.D. , M.R.C.P. , Professor of Pathological Chemistry , University College , London .
Communicated by Professor Horsley , F.R.S.

