II .
" On the Applicability of Gelatine Paper as a Medium for Colouring Light .
" By HORACE DOBELL , Esq. Communicated by JAMES PAGET , F.R.S. Received November 9 , 1854 .
The object of this communication is threefold .
( 1 .
) To point out the properties of a material called Gelatine Paper , which render it applicable as a medium for colouring light .
( 2 .
) Through the means of gelatine paper , to introduce the use of coloured light in the arts for the preservation of the sight of artisans .
( 3 .
) To introduce the use of gelatine paper for the relief of persons suffering from impaired vision ; for the preservation of the sight of travellers , and of all those who are much engaged in reading .
This material was invented in 1829 by the late M. Grenet , of Rouen , and was exhibited by him in its present state of perfection at the Great Exhibition of 1851 .
But up to the present time it has not been successfully applied to any more useful purposes than the manufacture of artificial flowers , address-cards , tracing-paper , wafers , wrappers for confectionary , and the like .
It is commonly manufactured in sheets , measuring 22 inches in length and 16 inches in diameter , which are sold at a small price ; but the sheets can as easily be made of any dimensions not exceeding those of which plate-glass is capable .
It can be made of any thickness , from that of the finest tissue paper upwards .
It may be obtained as transparent as the best glass , and more free from colour , or of all colours and shades of colour , without interfering with its transparency .
It is exceedingly light , and may .
be bent or rolled up without injury .
It can be cut with scissors like ordinary paper , and may easily be stitched with a needle and thread .
By means of an aqueous solution of gelatine , it can be made to adhere accurately to plates of glass without any interference with its transparency .
When varnished with collodion it becomes perfectly waterproof , more pliable , capable of bearing a considerable degree of heat without injury , and its transparency is not affected .
Hence it appears , that , in addition to its transparency and susceptibility to various colours and forms , gelatine paper is cheap , portable , and durable .
Such being the properties of the material , the following are enumerated by the author as some of the forms in which he suggests that it may be employed , and in which it has already been found useful .
1 .
A small sheet of very pale green or blue gelatine paper , to be used in reading .
The sheet is simply to be laid upon the page of the book , and the reading to be conducted through the coloured medium .
If used in a faint light , the reading paper is to be raised a little from the book to admit more light beneath it .
2 .
A sheet of gelatine paper of pale green set in a light frame , and placed like a screen before the window or lamp of the engraver , the watchmaker , the jeweller , and the like ; thus providing a light of genial colour in which they may pursue their occupations .
3 .
A similar appliance to the last-mentioned for the use of needlewomen .
For this purpose screens are to be provided , both of green and of blue gelatine paper ; so that the white materials employed in needlework may be changed to a pleasant green , by the screen of that colour , the yellow materials to a green by the blue screen , and by one or other of these screens the reds softened down into violets or browns .
4 .
For either of the two last purposes on a larger scale , the gelatine paper may be attached to the window glass of the apartment , thus colouring , if necessary , all the light admitted during daylight .
5 .
Shades for the eyes in certain affections of the sight , to take the place of the green or blue silk and card shades worn by many persons .
The gelatine paper being transparent , will allow the wearer to see his way about , at the same time that the eyes are pro .
tected from a glaring light .
This may be especially useful in cases where it is desired not only to shade a diseased eye , but also to protect its nerves from strong light admitted by the sound eye .
When not only coloured light but a certain degree of darkness is required , this can be readily and delicately graduated by employing shades of different depths of colour .
6 .
Masks of gelatine paper for protecting the eyes of travellers against the glare of snow-fields and of sandy deserts .

