]\gt ; [ 461 ] XVIII .
Influence of Change of Conditionfr.om the Liquid to the Solid on Vapour-Pressnre .
WILLIAM RAMSAY , Ph. D. , Professor , and YOUNG , D.Sc .
, Lecturer of Chemistry in University College , Bristol .
Communicated by Professor JAMES THOMSON , D. , F. Received April 15 , \mdash ; Read Apri124 , 1884 .
[ PLATES 18 , 19 .
] 1 .
THE object of this paper is to furnish an experimental proof of the theory advanced by Professor JAblES THOMSON ( Brit. Assoc. Reports , 1871 and , and Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. xxii .
, 27 ) , .
the pressure exerted by vapour of a solid substance at a given temperature is less than that of the vapour of the substance in the liquid form at the temperature .
This theory was simultaneously brought forward by KTRCHHOFF POGG .
ciii . .
2 .
In confirmation of this theory , offered as a result of thermodynamic considerations and demonstrations , Professor THOMSON made use of empirical formulae , devised by M. EGNAULT , to represent the different parts of the experimentally derived curve for expressing relationship between temperature and pressure of water.-gas in contact with ice and with water ; and he showed that REGNAULT'S , when rightly interpreted , pointed to a discontinuity in the curve , occurring at a temperature nearly coincident with , the melting-point of ice under normal pressure .
Although Professor THOMSON'S conclusions bear remarkable testimony to the extreme accuracy of work , yet the differences of pressure in the case of water and ice are so minute as to require , for trustworthy determination , much greater than methods admitted of .
3 .
That Professor THOMSON'S conclusions have not received general acceptance is best shown by the following translation from one of the most recent works on thermal chemistry , NAUMANN'S 'Thermochemie ' ( Brunswick , 1882 ) , p. 178 With naphthalene , a substance which is solid at , when the temperature is raised , but when previously melted and cooled to remains liquid , adhering in liquid drops to the walls of the vacuum-tube , I was able to observe that its vapour exerts the pressure whether evolved from and condensing to the solid or the liquid form .
In accordance with these observations are former results of experiments on the vapour-pressureB of ice and water , benzene , ethene bromide , acetic acid , cyanogen chloride , and carbon chloride , al of which prove that in the passage of a substance from the solid to the liquid state no noticeable alteration in the curve of vapour-pressure occurs , but the curve preserves perfect regularity , both before and after the change 4 .
In the following pages an experimental proof of the correctness of Professor JAS .
THOMSON'S theory will be given for camphor , acebic acid , and water .
As these ances are representatives of very different chemical types , the law may be held to apply to all stable bodies in the liquid and solid states .
5 .
From its high tension at the melting-point , camphor promised results which might be expected to throw light on this question .
The experiment was performed as follows:\mdash ; A barometer-tube was nearly filled with freshly distilled and filtered mercury , connected with a triple SPRENGEL pump , and a vacuum established .
The mercury was then boiled throughout the whole length of the tube , by heating it from below upwards , with the flame of a BUNSEN burner , so as to remove air and moisture .
Disconnecting from the pump , some fragments of previously fused pure camphor were placed on the surface of the mercury and kept in position by means of a coll of platinum gauze .
The tube was again exhausted , and dry mercury was allowed to flow into the vacuous tube so as to cover the camphor and gauze .
The tubs was then disconnected from the SPRENGEL pump , and inserted in a trough of dry mercury .
By this means bhe entire absence of air and moisture was ensured , and the method is a more convenient one than that described in the paper which we had the honour to lay before the Society in June of last year , entitled , " " The Influence of Pressure on the Temperature of Volatilization of Solids\ldquo ; ( Phil. Trans. , 1884 , p. 37 ) .
The experimental tube was heated by means of aniline-vapour .
Having previously made a set of numerous determinations of the vapour-pressure of aniline at different temperatures , we were able , by regulating the pressure , to surround the barometertube containing the camphor with vapour at any desired temperature between and 18 5 .
It is not here necessary to give detailed ions of the vapour-pressures of campI ) at lower temperatures ; suffice it to say that bhey confirmed those obtained by this , and by another method described in the paper already referred to .
For the purpose of this memoir we shall confine ourselves to pressures at temperatures near the melting-point .
6 .
The results were calculated according to the formulae:\mdash ; , and for Pressure of vapour in mi]limeters of mercury , reduced to CHANGE FROM THE LIQUID TO THE SOLID STATE ON VAPOUR-PRESSURE .
463 Pressure of vapour in millimeters of mercury at temperature of room .
Barometric height , \ldquo ; Height of mercury in experimental tube .
Height of mercury in trough .
Pressure of mercury vapour at temperature T. Temperature of aniline-vapour .
Temperature of room .
VAPOUR-PRESSURES of camphor .
For the last observation but one the tube was jacketed with the vapour of methyl benzoate boiling at 7502 millims. ; the last observation refers to the boiling-point of camphor under a pressure of millims. 7 .
A graphic representation of the numbers obtained near the melting-point of camphor is given in the annexed curves .
Curve No. I. , Plate 18 , gives a general representation of the vapour-pressures of camphor .
Curve No. II .
shows the vapourpressures in the neighbourhood of the melting-point on an enlarged scale .
It is to be noticed that the curves exhibit considerab]e irregularity about the melting-point , and that a prolongation of the portion above the would intersect the portion below the melting-point , as shown by dotted lines in Curve No. IT .
8 .
As our anticipations were so far fulfilled we proceeded to investigate the behaviour of benzene and of acetic acid .
The measurements obtained by means of a barometertube were not sufficiently accurate for our purpose , and therefore we employed the method described in the paper previously referred to , by means of which it was shown that the maximum temperature to which a solid , having free surface for evaporatio can attain is that at which its vapour pressure is equal to the gaseous pressure which it is exposed during distillation .
rrhe apparatus was modified as described S17 of that memoir .
In reading pressures , parallax was avoided by the use of mirror graduated in millimeters , standing vertically behind both gauge and and it was possible to read with confidence to the tellth part of a millimeter .
testing this scale with a standard cathetometer by Mr. DARWIN , of Cambridge , the greatest deviation observed was millim. in a range of 200 millims. ) Only two readings were required , and these involved no correction at low pressures .
The cotton-wool having been moistened with benzene , the following readings were taken :\mdash ; 9 .
VAPOUR pressures of benzene .
10 .
The boiling point of this specimen of benzene , which had been purified by recrystallization fifteen times and then carefully dried and fractionated , was at a pressure of millims. ; it melted at .
From Professor V. MEYER'S recent researches , however , it is probable that it still contained thiophene .
The results are graphically shown in the accompanying curve , and it is evident on first inspection that the solid-gas curve is not continuous with the liquid-gas curve .
We were unsuccessful in our attempts to cool benzene appreciably elow its freezing-point without ts solidifying .
11 .
As acetic acid promised favourable results in this respect we subjected it to experiment .
The results are given in the following table:\mdash ; For series Iy .
, V. , VI .
, , and VIII .
, a thel.mometer graduated in tenths of CHANGE FROM THE LIQUID TO THE SOLID STATE ON VAPOUR-PRESSURE .
467 SERIES VIII .
13 .
On inspection of the curves representing the above numbers ( Plate 19 ) , the truth of Professor THOMSON'S is evident , for in the case of acetic acid , both the solid-gas curve and the liquid-gas curve have been obtained at temperatures below the melting-point .
14 .
An attempt was next made to measure these differences by the barometric method .
As it is important in such experiments to ensure complete absence of air , the methods of introducing the liquid into the barometer { ube may here be noticed .
In the first series , the following method was employed .
The little apparatus , Plate 18 , fig. 1 , was partly filled acetic acid , and exhausted with the pump , so as to remove dissolved air .
A straight barometer , boiled out as usual , was placed in position .
The little apparatus was removed from the pump , the point was broken off under the mercury , in the trough in which the barometer-tube stood , and a little of the acid forced up into the tube .
There was a trace of air as large as a pin-point observable on slightly inclinin the barometer-tube so as to bring the liquid to the top , which , however , was rapidly redissolved by the acetic acid .
15 .
Various attempts were made to secure constant low temperatures , which could be rapidly varied at will .
The apparatus shown in , Plate 18 , fig. 1 , was found best to answer the purpose .
The tube , serving as ajacket to the upper portion of the barometertube containing the acid , was half-filled with ether , through which a current of dry air , regulated by means of a stop-cock , was drawn by an injector .
The temperature rapidly fell , and remained constant so long as the rate of the current of air was not altered .
The uniformity of the temperature of the ether was ensured by the ] agitation caused by the bubbles of air .
resh ether was admitted from time to time CHANGE FROM THE LIQUID TO THE SOLID STATE ON VAPOUR-PRESSURE .
469 19 .
As these results were still capricious the tube was filled by a third method , which ensured complete absence of air .
The shape of the barometer-tube was modified , as shown in , Plate 18 , fig. 1 .
The tube , after exhaustion , was filled to within about an inch of the branch , and boiled out as usual .
Air was then admitted , and about 1 cubic oentimeter of acetic acid was introduced .
The tube was again exhausted , and the acetic acid was gently warmed , so that its vapour might expel the last traces of air .
While the pump was in action , mercury was admitted , the tube being in such a position that the acetic acid rose into the closed end of the tube near the junction .
Disconnecting from the pump , the tube was inverted in mercury , when the acetic acid rose to its upper end .
The absence of air was so complete that the liquid adhered for some time to the top of the tube , the mercury standing at several centimeters above the barometer level , and falling only after being violently shaken .
This series includes only a few measurements below the melting-point , the majority being taken at higher temperatures for a different purpose .
Tn this series it was found impossible to prevent the solidification of the acid below the temperature , and as the results with the solid were still capricious the experiments were not continued .
It may be mentioned , however , as a proof that no air was evolved during solidification , that after the acid in contact with the mercury had frozen , the mercury adhered to the solid even after lowering the level of the mercury in the trough .
21 .
It may be remembered that REGNAULT attributed his discordant results to the presence in his acetic acid of water , or of acetone , the former causing too ] , the latter too high vapour-pressures .
The acid which we used for these experiments was a portion of a stock of glacial acid , obtained for laboratory purposes several years ago .
The liquid portion had been poured off from time to time , as required for laboratory use ; a very complete series of fractionations has thus mwittingly been carried out , and it is now so pure that , at temperatures slightly below its melting-point , it is completely solid .
This acid was fractionated ; a portion containing water came below ( pressure millims. ) ; but after this temperature had been attained the whole of the liquid distilled with absolute constancy .
Fractions were taken as required from time to time , as the liquid was found very apt to absorb moisture .
The of this acid is best guaranteed by the absolute concordance of the determinations of vapour-pressures by the distillation method already given , as well as of at 470 PROFESSOR W. RAMSAY AND DR. S. YOUNG ON THE INFLUENCE or higher temperatures which form part of another investigation .
The melting-point found to be 22 .
In all these determinations of vapour-pressures by the barometer-tube method the atmospheric pressure was ascertained by a barometer standing in the same trougk as the experimental tube , and jacketed with water at constant known ture .
The heights of the mercury in both tubes were read by a mirror-scale standing vertically behind them , and were corrected to zero .
When necessary , corrections for capillarity were applied , but when possible , wide tubes , of approximately the same diameter , were employed .
As every care was taken we are unable to offer any explanation of these capricious ; they serve at least to account for REGNAULT'S want of success in his attempt to solve this problem . .
Ethene dibromide was next experimented on , as it was one of the substances chosen by REGNAULT to decide this question .
The new method was employed with the following results .
The liquid was not quite pure , boiling from Owing to the extremely low pressures , the differences were too small to be measured .
24 .
REGNAULT states that he experimented on carbon tetra-chloride in the solid and liquid states .
We found no sign of solidification even at , and the body was therefore rejected as unsuitable for our purpose .
Vapour-pressures of liquid an water .
25 .
After devising the vapour-pressure apparatus we tested its accuracy by determining the vapour-pressures of ice and water between and .
The results agreed well with those calculated by means of REGNAULT'S formulae ; the minute differences , however , were not carefully noted at the time .
Having acquired by the previous experiments the necessary dexterity of manipulation and accuracy in reading , we proceeded to the determination of the vapour-pressures of water and ice at low temperatures , which , on account of the extremely small differences to be observed , offers greater difficulties .
It was first attempted to devise some means of measuring accurately small differences of pressure .
One device was the use of a barometer and a gauge , of the ordinary diameter , to the upper ends of which were sealed narrower tubes bent almost right angles , the bent portions lying in a nearly so that a slight alteration of pressure vould produce a flow of the mercury through a CHANGE FROM THE LIQUID TO THE SOLID STATE ON VAPOUR-PRESSURE .
471 considerable length of tube .
Another was the use of a glycerine barometer and gauge .
A third was to suspend the barometer and the gauge from the arms of a balance , while the lower ends dipped into two troughs communicating with each other .
The diameters of the tubes being known , the difference in level could be ascertained by a difference in weight .
This Iast method promised success , but it was abandoned in favour of a much more simple one .
26 .
The principle of this method is to observe the temperatures of both ice and water while at the same pressure .
Absolute accuracy in reading pressure is , as will hereafter be shown , not essential .
The pparatus by which this was accomplished is shown in Plate 18 , fig. 2 .
A and are the two thelmometers , graduated in tenth-degrees , the bulbs of which are covered with cotton wool .
The arrangements for introducing liquid , so as to moisten the cotton wool , are similar to those already described .
The two vertical tubes dipped in water , the temperature of which was maintained at .
The condenser differed but slightly from that used .
The altered position the exit tube was found to be more favourable to condensation .
The arrangement of the gauge and barometer is also shown in the figure .
In order to ensure that the diameter of the gauge was the same as that of the barometer , the portion of the gauge and the top of the barometer tube were taken from adjacent portions of the same tube .
The divisions on the mirror scale were extremely fine , and an attempt was made to read to half-tenths of millimeters , with what success will be seen hereafter .
In reading pressures , the level of the mercury in the trough was frequently altered , so as to avoid reading only at one part of the scale .
As a rule , the mean of several is given .
In order to facilitate exhaustion , the gauge was connecbed by means of a -tube with a CARRfi'S air-pump , as well as with a SPRENGEL pump , the former serving as a rough and the latter as a fine adjustment .
In these experiments , after exhaustion by the CARRE ' pump , the lead tube connecting that pump with branch of the -tube was removed , and this junction served to admit air when desired .
The indiarubber tubing , which was specially made for the purpose by Messrs. THORNTON , of Edinburgh , was very thick-walled , so as to avoid collapse on reduction of pressure , and was impervious to air .
The india-rubber corks through which the thermo- meters passed were coated with paraffin .
These precautions prevented any leakage whatsoever .
As before , a freezing mixture of pounded ice and hydrochloric acid the condenser .
27 .
Three thermometers were used , A and by NEGRETTI and ZAMBRA , by CETTI .
Their zero-points were first determined , and a careful comparison of the scale below was made by placing them in position , freezing water on the cotton wool covering both bulbs , and altering pressure .
In this comparison both thermometers were under the same pressure , and the volatilizing point of ice being solely dependent on the pressure , both thermometers were under precisely the same conditions , and 472 PROFESSOR W. RAMSAY AND DR. S. YOUNG ON THE INFLUENCE or must therefore register the same temperature .
It was foumd that the two meters by NEGRETTI and agreed throughout as to the length of their divisions ; and a curve was constructed , showing the relation of the degrees or ermometer B to those of A. 28 .
It is worth recording that the zero-points of all the thermometers were lowerd on reduction of pressure , but to very different amounts .
The readings under spheric pressure of thelmometers A and , when placed in ice , being taken as identioeL it was found that in a vacuum thermometer stood lower than A. A simb phenomenon has been observed by MILLS .
After coating thermometers with metal@ electrolytically , he noticed that the deposition of zinc and cadmium lowered the zeropoints of his thermometers from to degree , while copper raised the zero-point in one case as much as degrees ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. 26 , p. 504 ) .
MILLS made a comparison of this effect with that produced by raising or lowering atmospheric pressure .
Tho following table shows a comparison of thermometers A and by the method already mentioned : \mdash ; The extreme variation in difference amounted to .
The difference was to increase with fair regularity as the temperature fell .
30 .
From these numbers the following table was constructed by the graphic method :-points of A and under the same conditions were respectively and .
A and ( of which the zero-point had been raised to for convenience of reading ) were found to be identical throughout , hence their readings were accepted ; correct , while those of were corrected as given in the table below : \mdash ; CHANGE FROM THE LIQUID TO THE SOLID STATE ON VAPOUR-PRESSURE .
473 31 .
A comparison of thermometers A and was made before and after the experi- ments .
They were first placed in melting ice , when A read and , which had been altered in order to secure greater range , .
In vacuo the zero-points of these thermometers were and respectively .
Thus thermometer A fell , while fell , the being .
This was repeated after experiments described in Series II .
, when A placed in melting ice read , and , and in vacuo and respectively .
Thus A and , the difference being .
This agrees with the comparison of the two thermometers at the atmospheric pressure and in a vacuum .
At the same time , other readings of thermometer were somewhat variable , and it was therefore deemed advisable to assume that the zero-point of in Series II .
was .
That this is so is shown by the fact that , taking this number as correct , the differences between the two thermo- meters disappeared at .
But even if were accepted as the zero-point of it would not materially affect our results .
32 .
The experiments were conducted in the following manner :Water was admitted so as to moisten the cotton-wool of both thermometers .
Air was then removed as far as possible by means of the CARRfi pump ; it was then disconnected .
The condenser was next cooled , when the temperature registered by both thermometers quickly fell to about .
Solidification then took place , the temperatures rapidly rising to and quickly falling again .
The freezing-mixture was then removed , and a little air introduced , and one tube was jacketed with hot water .
Botb thermometers remained stationary at for some time ; the one which was warmed was allowed to rise to about ; the other thermometer remained below .
The freezingmixture was then replaced , and air was slowly removed by the SPRENGEL pump .
Under these circumstances it invariably happened that ice was formed on that thermometer , the temperature of which had not risen above , as S00D as the pressure fell below millims. , while the water on the other thermometer could be cooled to without freezing by slowly reducing pressure .
At a temperature between and it always froze .
Between and , therefore , it was possible to obtain comparative readings .
33 .
In the tables which follow all the readings are given , except some preliminary ones made before the method of manipulation had been learned .
CHANGE FROM THE LIQUID TO THE SOLID STATE ON VAPOUR..PRESSURE .
vapour-pressure of ice at where -pressure of ice .
, , , , water .
heat of tion of water , , fusion of ice .
temper ture of ice .
The formula devised by REGNAULT for vapour-pressures of water betwec and , was held to apply to temperatures as low as Even if this is not strictly correct , the alteration in the differences between the vapour-pressures of water and ice would be inappreciable .
35 .
In caloulating the results the following data were employed:\mdash ; ( I. ) Heat of vaporization of water at calories ( REGNAULT ) .
, , and so on , increasing by calorie for each degree .
( II .
) Heat of fusion of ice at ( REGNAULT ) .
\ldquo ; and so on , decreasing by calorie for each degree .
( III .
) Specific heat of ice , calorie ( mean of various experiments ) .
( IV .
) Ratio of difference of pressures for 1o of vapours of water .
The ratio between and was calculated thus : Between and and so on .
( V. ) Vapour-pressures of water from REGNAULT'S empirical formula , between and ( It is noteworthy that tho curve representing results calculated by MAGNUS from his own observations for temperatures below runs parallel to that given , with a difference varying between and 00@1 millims. ) 36 .
The vapour .
pressures of ice and water may be taken as equal at .
The vapour-pressure of ice at is calculated as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) Difference between vapour-pressure of water at and at millim. ( 2 .
) This difference , multiplied by the ratio between and millim. ( 3 .
) Vapour-pressure ofice at difference ofpressures between millim. In this manner the theoretical vapour-pressures of ice from to were calculated .
37 .
In the table below , under column , are given the theoretical vapour-pressures of ice , calculated as above , and gives results calculated by } of REGNAULT'S empirical formula for temperatures between and CHANGE FROM THE LIQUID TO THE SOLID STATE ON VAPOUR-PRESSURE .
477 38 .
We have previously mentioned that in order to test the accuracy of our new method of determining vapour pressures , a careful set of determinations was made of the vapour-pressures of ice and water .
The slight differences between the results obtained and given in REGNAULT'S tables were considered at the time to be due to experimental error , for they were so small as to appear insignificant .
On comparing these results , however , with the curve calculated from theory , it was found that they much more nearly coincided with it , than with REGNAULT'S curve .
As they afford a striking confirmation of the results already given , they are here appended .
39 .
Description of the curves ( Plate 19 ) .
No. L Acetic acid .
Curves drawn to follow the experimental results .
Vapour-pressure of liquid acid .
( b ) , , , , solid acid .
No. II .
Water and ice .
Curve for water calculated by formula for pressures between and ( b ) Theoretical curve for ice , calculated from .
Our results for water are given as coinciding with , for it was assumed that the temperature of the thermometer surrounded by water was correct .
This was done , for the object was to show differences of temperature at certain points in the curve , rather than the absolute relationship between temperature and pressure at any one point .
No. III .
Theoretical curve for ice .
( b ) Curve from REGNAULT'S tables .
( c ) Curve for water as in ( II .
) .
The crosses denote the observations given in S 38 ; the circles the observations for ice given in S 83 .
40 .
In the foregoing pages it has been proved : ( l ) that with camphor and benzene , the former in a barometer tube , and the second in the ' still the curve representing vapour-pressure of liquid above the melting-point is discontinuous with that of the solid below the melting-point : ( 2 ) that acetic acid shows this difl'erence in a very marked manner ; and that , indeed , the curves representing vapour-pressure of solid and liquid below the .-point are quite distinct : and ( 3 ) that , with water , rofessor T predicted , this difference is calculable from the known heats vaporisation and fusion .
It is to be regretted that similar data as regards acetic acid are not sufficiently complete or reliable to enable a similar calculation to be made .
ADDENDTTM .
A method of determining vapour-prcssures of solids liquids .
As this method has been fully described in this and in a previous paper ( Phil. Trans. , 1884 , Part I. , p. 37 ) it will not be necessary to enter into a detailed description of it .
Our experience of the method has shown us that the results which it gives are more trustworthy , as well as more easily obtained than those which the older method yields ; hence it may be well to point out its advantages .
1 .
There is no necessity to heat the whole apparatus to a known and uniform temperature .
It is only necessary that the temperature of the bath should be kept to higher than that registered by the thermometer .
2 .
The temperature of the gauge and barometer are the same , and involve only a simple and small correction for the temperature of the of mercury .
The vapour-pressure of mercury is not troduced .
3 .
The gauge and barometer stand in the same trough , which may be placed at a distance from the still , and hence they are not subject to change of temperature .
4 .
The readings are more accurate , because the gauge and barometer need not be jacketed , and the scale be placed immediately behind them .
5 .
The very great difficulty of filling an experimental tube , so as to ensure absence of air and moisture , is avoided .
6 .
In our apparatus , the temperature is dependent on the pressure , instead of the pressure being dependent on the temperature , and the pressure may easily be reduced or increased at will , and is of necessity constant throughout the whole apparatus .
7 .
A very much larger number of observations may be taken in the same time , and the influence of the errors of experiment , themselves much smaller , is greatly reduced .
8 .
The 1bour involved in applying the corrections necessary when a barometer tube is used is avoided .

