]\gt ; On Flight .
the whole would continue to rise , during which the wing and body could be replaoed in their original relative positions by mutual action between them , wholly internal to their system , free except for gravity .
If at the end of the rise added mass were again picked up , the system might fall to- its initial level and velocity ( stage III ) , the process becomes cyclic , and may be repeated ad infinitum .
The virtual addition to the mass of the wing is , for brevity , hereinafter called , and is reckoned as units per unit of mass of the whole , wing and engine together .
Fig. 2 shows ( as hereinafter is proved ) the foot-lbs .
per second required per pound carried , and the pounds carried per horse-power , in cycles like that above described , at one flap per second , for certain values of A. No exact data are , in reality , available as to these values in particular cases , but the author thinks that those given cover a range likely to occur in air , with birds , insects , and such conceivable machines as the following .
Let the wing be a flat , circular disc , 12 feet diameter , and the body a three-horse engine .
Scale for A. FIG. \mdash ; At one flap per second .
At any other rate of flapping the weight carried per H.P. varies directly the rate of flapping .
except by guess , has left out the item in fig. 2 , to be supplied by better information .
The value taken above for A in the case of the 12-foot disc is , of course , to be understood merely an indication of the order of magnitude likely to be found in actual cases .
The author thinks that it may not be far from the truth to assume , for present purposes , that A may be treated as a constant in the kind of disturbances here contemplated , which are like those made by an oar , being started severally from rest by quick short impulses , and to a considerable extent isolated from one another .
For if in general , and be initially zero , and for a short time thereafter small , while and are not , the term will predominate at first in disturbances started from rest , as above described , and A may be considered as practically constant during the creation of each , and as the same constant for a good many in succession also , because the general stream system surrounding them will alter the field in which successive ones are generated very slowly when the train of disturbances bas become a long one .
Taking , then , as a constant during the period of its existence , the work done corresponding to by the pressure in the cylinder on the piston may be expressed as a function of , the piston speed ; of , the part of the stroke made during ; of ; of and ; and of the parts pounds of engine , and pounds of wing , into which the total weight of 1 lb. of the whole is divided .
, as before , for the height of the wing over datum , for that of the body , for that of their common centre of gravity , and for the total pressure on the piston , 1 ) ; ( 2 ) ; ( 3 ) ; and is the relative velocity of body and wing .
is , in fig. 1 , taken positive above the piston , and , as taken in ( 4 ) , gives positive when and are both positive , i.e. upwards , with the greater , at , and negative between and , because be negative if , is to be a supporting force , and changes sign , in general , in passing through zero , so that would become a depressing force unless A be then shed .
A simple case is to assume , which will satisfy the conditions if It might be thought that some probable guesses at values of A might be made on some such argument as the following .
Rooks and many other birds flap at a frequency of from 250 to 350 per minute , or thereabouts ; is the height of free fall in time , and , allowing for the centre of pressure being somewhat within the wing tip , a rough guess at the value of in birds of about their size would suggest some value about for A. But , in reality , such inferences are profoundly uncertain .
Birds ' flight is , no doubt , partly of the flapping character now ated , but is also , no doubt , partly aerodromic , and this would have to be allowed for on the lines of the author 's paper of 1899 .
Even if this were put aside , as in hovering in a calm , there is no sort of certainty that the cycle used is that assumed .
There is a class of cycles wherein the apparent stroke is not limited by geometrical constraints in the ordinary sense ; in which the wing and body may , for example , be relatively at rest in stage III , and there is no such direct relation between and the apparent stroke as above ; in which in fact , the cycle could not be directly inferred from observation of the wing path , without possessing the equivalent of indicator diagrams of the muscular actions accompanying it .
Other points arise with respect to geometrically similar machines of the same materials , but differing in size .
Suppose , for example , it had been that a herring gull used the simple harmonic cycle above mentioned , and he were taken as model for a machine ( say ) three times his size in linear dimensions , and twenty-seven times his weight .
The A of the machine would be the same as that of the gull , since A varies as the cube of linear dimensions , like weight , not like wing area .
To possess the same -Aconomy of power as the gull , the frequency of the machine would then

