84 Mr. F. Galton on Verifying [ Mar. 15 , the transmission onwards both of the contents of the bowel and of the resulting stimulation .
The contraction of these longitudinal fibres would also mask the details of the process to external observation .
The intermitting contractions of the sphincter under a continuous stimulation may represent the successive waves of peristaltic action when the intestinal contents are abundant .
It is further to be noted that the presence of the instrument in the anus , -after the effect of its introduction had passed off , was the source ef no stimulation , just as contents may be at rest within the bowel , and if they are not moved , and do not irritate the mucous membrane , may excite no peristaltic action .
EXPLANATION OF TRACINGS .
Fig. 1 .
Effect on contraction of sphincter of the injection into the rectum of a small quantity of air at * .
a , fall in pressure due to the inhibition of the contraction ; bf rise due to the slowly returning contraction .
Fig. 2 .
Effect of the introduction of the instrument , a , sudden rise of lever at moment of introduction , due to the exposure of the instrument to the pressure of the sphincter ( the top of this line represents the degree of previous contraction ) ; by initial rise due to increased contraction ; c , fall from partial inhibition ; dy subsequent contraction , rising to a greater degree than the initial contraction , and subsequently falling slightly .
Fig. 3 .
Effect of cough , a , pressure of tonic contraction of sphincter ( the slight irregularities are due to pulse-waves ) ; 6 , fall in pressure , due to the movement of the instrument by the cough ; c , initial contraction ; d9 relaxation of inhibited sphincter ; e9 e9 e , rhythmical variations in subsequent rise .
Figs. 4 , 5 , 6 .
Rhythmical variation in contraction of sphincter under the influence of a continuous injection of air into the rectum* a , a , a , waves of secondary rhythm .
Figs. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , \amp ; 6 are from the case of injury to the sacral nerves .
Fig. 5 is from a case of disease of the dorsal region of the spinal cord .
The vertical lines represent seconds of time .
V. " Description of the Process of Verifying Thermometers at the Kew Observatory .
" By Francis Galton , F.R.S. Received March 1 , 1877 .
It may be of interest to describe the method recently adopted at the Kew Observatory of verifying thermometers by comparison at different temperatures with a standard instrument , since a large proportion of the various thermometrical determinations made by English physicists are dependent for their accuracy upon that of the verifications at Kew .
Many thousands of thermometers have already been verified by the apparatus about to be described .
Up to the year 1875 the apparatus for this purpose at the Kew Observatory was of the rudest character .
It was simply a glass jar 9| inches wide and 18 inches deep , filled 1877.1 Thermometers at the Observatory .
85 with hot water and standing on a turntable , in which a brass frame was placed .
The thermometers were attached to this framework , and the observer having well agitated the water with a plunger , read the instruments in succession through the glass as he turned the jar round before him , reading each thermometer as it passed .
He first turned it round from right to left , and then back again from left to right .
Each thermometer was thus read twice , and the mean of the pair of readings was taken .
It is obvious that if the rate of cooling of the water be uniform , and if the thermometers are observed at precisely equal intervals , the mean of every pair of observations would be strictly referable to the temperature of the water at the same moment of time , namely , to that which is halfway between the beginning and end of the entire set .
It is needless to point out that these conditions can never be strictly fulfilled , although , notwithstanding the imperfection of the process and the coarseness of the apparatus , the observers acquired much certainty and skill in its manipulation .
Still the time occupied was unnecessarily great , and the chance of error , owing to variations in the rate of cooling of the water , was larger than it need be .
Partly owing to this latter reason , and partly to* the fact that the number of thermometers sent to be tested has com-siderably increased ( being now not less than 3000 annually ) , I thought it advisable to design and propose to my colleagues of the Kew Committee the construction of an instrument of a much more substantial and adequate character ; and to this the Committee assented .
I was subsequently indebted for many suggestions to JMr .
D\#169 ; La Hue , and .
also to Mr. k. Munro , of 24 Clerkenwell Green , London , by whom it was finally made .
It has now been at work for two years , and its performance is quite satisfactory ; experience has in the mean time suggested a few emendations , and simplifications , and I will therefore describe the instrument as at present in use .
The apparatus ( see figs. 1 \amp ; 2 ) consists essentially of four parts:\#151 ; ( 1 ) A wTater-vessel .
( 2 ) An agitator , worked by a handle on the outside .
( 3 ) An external heating arrangement .
( 4 ) A frame on which to hang the thermometers , turned by a ; handle on the outside* .
( 1 ) The Waster-vessel .
This is a cylinder \#169 ; f stout copper , 2 ft. 2 in .
high and 1 ft. in diameter .
In its base there is a central aperture through which the concentric vertical axes are passed , which respectively carry the agitator and the thermometer frame ; the top of the cylinder is entirely open ; a vertical slit , 1 ft. 10 in .
long and 4\#163 ; in .
wide , is cut in the side of the cylinder and the slit is glazed with a stout sheet of plate-glass , the joints being made water- and steam-tight by means of india-rubber packing .
1877.1 Thermometers at the Kew Observatory .
87 The cylinder is placed inside a wooden box , taller than itself , and 1 ft-5 in .
square at its base , the space between it and the sides of the box being filled with sawdust , whilst the exterior of the box is completely covered with kamptulicon , in order to retain the heat of the water in the enclosed vessel as much as possible .
An aperture somewhat larger than that in the cylinder is cut in the side of the box in front of it , and is also glazed with plate-glass .
A lid containing 3 inches of sawdust , covered with a sheet of kamptulicon , can be shut tightly down on the top of the cylinder and box , the escape*of the vapour given off during heating being provided for by means of a steam-pipe .
Pipes lead from the top and bottom of the water-vessel to an exterior pipe ending in a funnel above and a cock below , so that water may be poured in or drawn off from the vessel as desired .
The whole is firmly fixed to a stout wooden stand about 2 ft. high .
( 2 ) The Agitator ( see fig. 2 ) , A stout and hollow brass axis , in .
in diameter , passes vertically up through the centre of the base of the water-vessel , carrying three sets of helical vanes , one above the other , arranged so that the upper and lower vanes form segments of right-handed screws , whilst the intermediate vanes are left-handed .
The inclination of every vane is adjustable .
The lower end of the axis passes through a stuffing-box in the bottom of the cylinder , and is connected by gearing to a crank-handle projecting outside the apparatus .
It can be turned easily by the hand of the observer , who thereby is able to agitate the water throughout the whole depth of the vessel .
( 3 ) The Heating-Apparatus ( see fig. 1 ) .
This is a copper tube 0-6 in .
in diameter , which , issuing from the back of the water-vessel near the bottom , is carried through the wooden casing of the instrument , and is then coiled into a vertical spiral of six turns , gradually diminishing in diameter .
The end of the tubb is afterwards brought back into the water-vessel .
A cluster of Bunsen burners being placed beneath the coil serves to heat it and to make the water circulate inside the cylinder , thus warming the whole of its contents .
Experiment shows that , with the small coil used , 10 gallons of cold water can be boiled in about six hours from the time of lighting the gas ; in practice , however , when it is required to test thermometers near the boiling-point only ( mountain thermometers , for example ) the apparatus is filled with boiling water out of kettles'put on an ordinary fire .
A cone of sheet-copper is usually placed round the coil as a jacket , in order to retain the heat from the gas-burners as much as possible ; this Mr. F. Galton ow Verifying [ Mar. 15 , is shown by dotted lines in the drawing .
A cock at the lower end of the coil permits of the stoppage of the circulation of the water through the pipe .
( 4 ) The Thermometer Frame .
The thermometers to be compared are hung side by side round the circumference of two brass rings , 10| in .
in diameter , that are attached to the side rods of a cylindrical frame .
The thermometers are held in their places against the ring by spring clips , one of which is shown full size in fig. 4 , and one of the rings is shown in fig. 3 ; the latter slide up and down the brass rods that form the sides of the cylindrical framework , and are clamped at such a distance apart as may best suit the thermometer under examination .
Forty thermometers can be suspended at a time .
The bottom of the frame is provided with six rollers\#151 ; three placed radially , for the purpose of guiding it up and down the interior of the water-vessel ; and three tangentially and projecting below the base , in order to support the frame whilst putting on or taking off the thermometers .
This operation is performed when the frame is standing on the closed lid of the box , a circular brass ring being screwed to the lid to prevent the frame running off when being turned round by the operator .
The top of the frame consists of spokes radiating from a hollow socket that drops over the end of an upright steel rod , which , passing through the axis of the agitator , projects above it ( see fig. 2 ) .
A plug is then screwed into the top of this rod and clamps the frame , which is supported by it ; the frame , with the thermometers , can then be rotated in the water by turning this rod .
This turning is effected from the outside through a wheel fixed to its projecting lower extremity , into which an endless screw , driven by a crank in front of the apparatus , is geared .
The observer , facing the glazed slit , can bring the thermometers hung round the frame before him one by one as quickly as he likes .
For the convenience of moving the thermometer frame into and out of the water-vessel , a cord is carried over the apparatus round pulleys , as seen in fig. 1 , so that the attendant can hook its end to the ring at the top of the frame , and twist or lower it with the .greatest facility .
The general character of the process of comparison is to turn down the gas and to close circulation in the pipe by turning the stopcock ; the water is then agitated , and is afterwards left at rest until the set is finished .
The thermometer frame is turned once round forwards and once backwards in each process of comparison , each instrument being read off twice , the mean of the two being the result aimed at .
Mr. Whipple , the Superintendent of the Observatory , has made at my request a large number of experiments on the variations of temperature under different conditions , and on other matters relating to the working 1877 .
] Thermometers at the Kevo . .
89 of the apparatus .
It will be sufficient if I give a few summary tables of the results .
The mean variation of temperature during a double process of comparing each of twenty sets of thermometers , each set averaging nineteen instruments , and each instrument being read four times , was as follows Temperature at which the 1 comparison was made , f 60 ' 70 ' 80 ' 90 ' 100 ' 110 ' Mean variation during j each set J +006 +007 \#177 ; 0*06 +0-07 +0-09 \#177 ; 0-15 The extreme variation of 0o,30 occurred in one case , and that of 0o,25 in three cases .
It takes about four minutes to read a complete set of ordinary thermometers .
The rate of heating by gas , and of cooling after the gas has been wholly turned off , is of course much affected by the temperature of the air of the room j it may be roughly taken as follows :\#151 ; When the water in the vessel is about ... 45 ' 100 ' 150 ' 200 ' Eise of temperature in 5 minutes when 1 the gas is turned fully on J 2'-80 2'-26 l'-95 1'*45 Fall of temperature in 5 minutes when 1 the gas is turned wholly off .
j 0'-25 0o,60 1'00 The rate of cooling is much reduced when the process consists in first raising the water to the highest required temperature , and then cooling it by successive additions of cold water .
The heat of the stuffing that surrounds the vessel being thus much higher than the water it contains , keeps it at an equable temperature .
The temperature of the water in the vessel , after agitating it and allowing it to settle , differs somewhat at different levels ; this is due to the impossibility of securing perfect intermixture and to the variations of the temperature of the stuffing in respect to that of the water .
The greatest differences observed between a thermometer whose bulb was immersed 2 inches below the level of the water and one that was immersed 19 inches was 0o,68 .

