]\gt ; Production of Solid Oxygen by the of the Liquid .
By Sir JAMES DEWAR , M.A. , Sc. D. , .D .
, F.B.S. , Fullelian Professor of Chemistry at the Royal Institution and Jacksonian Professor in the University of Cambridge .
( Received August 5 , \mdash ; Read November 9 , 1911 .
) It seems strange that while liquid hydrogen or can easily be changed into the solid condition by evaporating the respective liquids under exhaustion , yet the ordinary air pumps fail to effect the transition of state in the case of liquid oxygen .
This is due to the small vapour pressule of solid oxygen at its point , as compared with or nitrogen mlder similar conditions ; ether with the greater need of very perfect heat isolation in the arrangement of the experiment .
By means of the use of charcoal as a gaseous condensing at temperatures , combined with the employment of proper vacuum vessels , the change fro1n the liquid into the solid can be silv effected.* Pure liquid oxygen , contained in a properly isolated vessel , subjected to the exhaust produced by a quantity of charcoal kept at about the temperature of boiling , has its pressure lowered sufficiently to produce solidification to a transparent jelly .
The pressurc at which solidification takes place was determined by a McLeod gauge to the vessel containing the solid oxygen .
About 75 .
of ooood coconut charcoal is necessary to produce and maintain the neceSsary conditions of exhaust .
From 5 to 10 c.c. of liquid oxygen were employed , previously exhausted by an air pump .
exhibits considerable supercooling , and a pressure of less than half the meltin .
pressure can usually be maintained on the liquid without producing solidification .
These experiments indicate that the melting point pressure is between and mm. shows the arrangement of the apparatus .
Fig. 2 shows a modification in which the oxygen is contained in a bulb immersed in the solid oxygen produced by the charcoal exhaust .
In fig. 1 , A is a silvered vacuum-jacketed tube , with a slit not coated , containing the oxygen to be exhausted .
This is further isolated by a larger tube , also silvered , and with a slit as above , which contains liquid air under an exhaust of less than 20 A is sealed by the tube on to a -piece , whose limbs connect ( 1 ) through a constricted portion to bulbs * This was publicly shown at a Friday evening Address given at the Royal Institution on January 20 , 1911 .
VOL. LXXXV.\mdash ; A. 2 Sir J. Dewar .
Production of [ Aug. 5 , anate of potash crystals and phosphoric anhydride respectively , ( 2 ) to a three-way cock , sealed on to the arms of which are ( a ) the bulb containing 75 .
of coconut charcoal , ( b ) a -piece connect- to the mercury-pump stopcock and the McLeod gauge respectively .
By the mercury pump , and arranging the cock in position , so that I , II , and III are all connected , the whole apparatus , including the permanganate crystals phosphoric dride bulbs , could be exhausted , the charcoal beiIlg well heated , and the exhaust obtained read on the uch a large mass of heated charcoal prevents the exhaust for practical urposes being brought below mm. When the pressure is reduced to this order , the cock is turned to the position , thus connecting I and II only , and the , etc. , can then be more thoroughly exhausted ( to or less ) by continuing the mercury pump .
The permanganate bulb is now gently heated after losing off the mercury-pump cock , and the apparatus filled up with oxygen to near mospheric pressure ; this is repeated three times with intermediate { exhaustion by the mercury .
Liquid air is now admitted to , which is then placed under exhaust .
On heating the permanganate crystals , oxygen is now oondensed in A. When sufficient liquid is obtained ( about 8 ) the permanganate and phosphoric anhydride bulbs are sealed off .
he mercurypump cock is now opened and the liquid oxygen in A well exhausted .
This lowers the pressure to the order of mm. in about 20 minutes or less .
Solid Oxygen by the Evaporation of the Liquid .
Meanwhile the charcoal bulb has been ] in a vessel'of liquid air , or if a higher efficiency is wanted the liquid air may be exhausted .
The mercury-pump cock is now shut off and the cock is turned to position connecting I , II , and III , whereby the exhausted oxygen is placed under the action of the charcoal , and the resulting pressure communicated to the gauge .
In about 10 minutes or less the pressure falls to below mm. and solidification occurs .
By maintaining the charcoal exhaust the pressure on the solid oxygen can be reduced to mm. in about 30 minutes .
The real melting pressure of the oxygen is observed by turning to position , connecting I and Ir , the charcoal being thereby closed off , and the solid oxygen connected to the gauge alone .
In fig. 2 the arrangement is somewhat albered .
is a bulbed tube sealed on to a -piece which connects to the McLeod gauge , and also , a constriction , to a vacuum vessel of pure arranged in the pump circuit .
By this means the gauge is filled to atmospheric pressure with pure oxygen evaporated from the liquid in the connected vessel ( after filling and exhausting to 1 mm. by the mercury pump ) .
The liquid oxygen vessel is then sealed off .
A glass tubulated fitting is fixed by an indiarubber joint on to the bulbed tube F. The side tubulure of connects to the three-way cock , etc. , as in fig. 1 , Sir J. Dewar .
Production of [ Aug. 5 , except that the connection for the McLeod gauge there shown is sealed off .
A silvered narrow yacuum tube provided with a slit is attached to the lower neck of by an indiarubber cork .
The whole arrangement is isolated by a vacunm vessel exhausted liquid air as in fig. 1 .
About 10 .
of liquid oxygen are introduced into ( obtained by condensing oxygen from anate of potash in a separate tube in liquid air ) .
The oxygen in is now exhausted by the mercury pump and finally by charcoal as above , whereby the oxygen in the gauge is condensed in and its pressure observed .
Some earlier determinations were made in which liquefied permanganate contained iil a vacuum tube as was simply connected to by a pierced rubber cork instead of the sealed-on vacuum tube A. This arrangement also works perfectly well for obtaining solid oxygen and observing its pressure , but is not adapted for liquefying oxygen direct from of potash .
In all cases the charcoal must first be thoroughly exhausted at about 30 C. by the mercury pump .
The pressures observed were as follows:\mdash ; 5 to 6 .
of , in unsilvered vacuum tube connected by rubber cork , and isolated by exhausted air .
The limit of the mercury pump exhaustion on liquid oxygen , after 10 minutes , mm. Charcoal exhaust connected\mdash ; Time in minutes 5 15 20 30 Pressure in mm. of mercury The solidified in 10 minutes .
Solid oxygen on to ( charcoal ) Time in minutes Pressure in mm. of mercury at once 5 10 20 The oxygen was still completely solid after 5 minutes .
In 10 minutes about one-fifth had melted .
In 20 minutes only very little solid left .
By the mercury pump the pressure was lowered to mm. in 10 minutes without solidifying the oxygen .
On again connecting the charcoal exhaust , solidification was accomplished in 10 minutes , the pressure being then .
By allowing the charcoal exhaust to continue , the pressure on the solid oxygen was lowe'red to in 30 minutes and in one hour .
On again connecting the solid oxygen to the gauge the pressure was 1911 .
] Solid Oxygen by the Evaporation of the Liquid .
observed at first , steadily to in 10 minutes , the being allowed to remain undisturbed .
Another series was carried out , using a silvered vacuum tube to contain the liquid , this being isolated by exhausted liquid air at a pressure of about 20 mm. , also contained in a silvered vessel .
The mercury pump exhaust on the liquid oxygen , in 10 minutes , was mm. , without producing solidification .
Charcoal exhaust connected\mdash ; Time in minutes 10 20 30 Pressure in mm. of The oxygen was completely solid in minutes with the better isolation afforded by the silvered vacuum tubes .
The solid connected on to the auge at once yave a pressure of mm. and mm. in 2 minutes .
The charcoal exhaust was again connected , and produced solid as before , the pressure falling to in 15 minutes .
On the solid oxygen to the a pressuoe of was obtained , to in 6 minutes , when solid was still largely present .
In the above observations the tube containing the solid was ot agitated in any way , as by tapping , etc. , during the readin gs .
In the following obSeryation this was varied .
Observations were made with a sealed-on vacuum vessel , as in , the oxygen being directly liquefied from heated permanganate of potash .
An arc lamp was arranged to illuminate the a parallel beam ; water cell interposed to screen off leaG radiation .
The vessels used were silvered , with narrow slits to allow their contents to be observed .
Further , to reduce the effect of supercooling and to maintain the or melbing oxygen as far as possible at a uniform temperature , and consequently steady pressure , the vacuum vessels were , at the tinles noted below , kept well agitated by frequent tapping .
This resulted in practically a steady pressure recorded while the solid oxygen was melting .
Nearly 8 .
of oxygen was condensed .
The mercury pump exhaust in 10 minutes a pressure of , and in 20 minutes , thereby evaporating about 1 .
of liquid .
Charcoal exhaust connected\mdash ; Time in minutes 5 15 30 40 60 Pressure in mm. of mercury 01849 Owing doubtless to the larger quantity of oxygen dealt with , solidification did not occur until 31 minutes had elapsed , i.e. at a pressure a little er Sir J. Dewar .
Production of [ Aug. 5 , than mm. The pressure observed after 40 minutes , it will be observed , had risen to , affording a distinct indication of supercooling .
A later observation of such a pressure recorded below , made immediately after solidification , showed an even greater rise , viz. , from just before solid to immediately after solidifying .
Solid oxygen on to gauge lone ( no tapping ) gave in this case : Time in minutes 6 Pressure in mm. of mercury With clJarcoal again on , limit of pressure was in 25 minutes .
On turning off the charcoal the oxygen remained quite solid for 15 minutes .
The charcoal used in the condenser was now allowed to warm up to the ordinary temperature , when it only showed a pressure of 150 mm. , due to the occluded at in the above experiment .
The same sample of oxygen ( .
still left ) was kept liquid in A for further observations .
The was again thoroughly exhausted , and , on being again cooled , the following further observations vere made , this time the oxygen bulb being well agitated , and illuminated as Mercury pump exhaust was in 20 minutes .
Charcoal exhaust connected\mdash ; Time in minutes 5 10 15 45 Pressure in mm. of mercury Solidification antaneous and complete in 11 minutes .
Solid on to alone , well itated .
Time in minutes at once 7 10 15 20 25 30 Pressure in mm. of mercury ) of liquefying was evident for 8 minutes .
In 20 minutes about .
of liquid was present , the remainder being ajelly , shaped to the tube and free in the small amount of liquid .
In 30 l1linntes some 3 .
of liquid was present with a half sphere of transparent jelly .
In the beam of the arc lamp the oxygen was seen to solidify instantaneously , passing from a clear liquid to a slightly translucent mass .
Under the continued exhaust of the charcoal the smooth surface of the oxygen became gradually broken up by numerous cracks penetrating but slowly down into the mass , and giving it the appearance of having a white crystalline surface .
This disappeared very rapidly on off the charcoal exhaust , and the surface became quite smooth , although , with the good isolation , no appreciable melting could be detected for 15 minutes or more .
1911 .
] Solid Oxygen by the Evaporation of the Liquid .
It will be noticed from this last table of pressures that the tapping has resulted in reduced supercooling , since solidification was produced with a pressure of about mm. , compared with mm. before .
Also , the mixing of the melti ( has resulted in concordant pressures being observed , as although readings were taken over 30 minutes , by which time a proportion of the had melted , the pressure , having once risen to about , remained fairly steady , whereas when the melting oxygen was allowed to remain itated , the pressure as recorded before was always found steadily to increase .
Since the melting pressure thus appeared to be of the order of 1 mm. and also since the mercury pump reduced the pressure of the liquid oxygen to mm. , it was thought worth while to decide whether this pump could solidify the oxygen without having recourse to cbarcoal .
For this purpose the action of the mercury pump was allowed to proceed for a time ; the same sample of oxygen was employed .
The results were observed:\mdash ; Time in minutes 7 30 50 Pressure in mm. of mercury No solidifying was accomplished , although the oxygen was well agitated .
On connecting , however , the cooled ) arcoal , in 15 minutes the pressure was mm. , and while the was being used to make au observation the oxygen went completely solid .
Another reading was immediately taken , when a pressure of was ered , distinct evidence of supercooling and a melting pressure of over mm. The oxygen thus being solid , the mercury pump was connected to it , and maintained the solid state , but did not lower the .
pressure below mm. , allowed to run for some time .
The results obtained by the use of the apparatus fig. 2 are interesting .
As described above , the gauge been filled with pure oxygen , this is condensed in the bulbed tube by cooling in the solidified oxygen in G. The consequent pressules observed in the auge were the Mercury pump on , thus exhausting 10 .
oxygen in G. Time in minutes 10 20 30 Pressure in mm. of mercury The pressure in would undoubtedly be lower after 30 minutes ' than after 20 mins , yet the pressure registered in the .
of the oxygen in , had increased between these two periods .
This is similar to the supercooling usually obtained , but neither in nor had the oxygen yet solidified .
Sir J. Dewar .
Production of [ Aug. 5 , Charcoal exhaust now connected , pressure in as follows:\mdash ; Time in minutes 5 10 15 25 35 60 Pressure in mm. of mercury The oxygen in the jacket solidified in 5 minutes .
That in , however , remained liquid the whole time , but at an absolutely constant pressure .
Apparently it was just not solid , and agitating was not sufficient stimulus to excite the solidification .
The bulb was 2 cm .
below surface of the solid oxygen in The remarkable constancy of this pressure seems to indicate that it is not very far from the real melting pressure .
The pressure in the solid oxygen jacket is mdoubtedly , probably to a limit of or mm. , through the action of the charcoal exhaust , yet the pressure in is not tered , whereas if appreciable supercooling took place it would be shown by a continual lowering of pressure .
It is possible that the jelly was not in contact with the bulb whereby the cooling effect would not be perfectly transmitted .
Such a jelly or solid is a bad medium , in the same way as solid would not be a very cooling jacket , liquid at a little above pressure ) preferable .
Estrecker has made observations both of the temperature and pressure of oxygen which had been solidified ) the use of liquid hydrogen and allowed slowl to melt .
The melting pressure observed was mm. , while the temperature of the melting point was abs .
It is interesting to calculate the pressure corresponding to the melting point either by the use of a ankine or Willard Gibbs vapour-tension equation .
Thus the Rankine two-term formula derived from Onnes ' oxygen obsex.vationS , .
:\mdash ; gives , if If mm. , the corresponding would be abs .
Similar calculated pressures obtained from either a three-term Rankine or a Willard Gibbs are too low .
If Onnes ' three standard values of liquid temperatures and pressures are taken , then ( Rankine ) , or when abs .
, and when is .
the corresponding value of is .
Also a Willard Gibbs , calculated from the same values , viz. , gives a pressure of mm. , corresponding to abs .
Further , a Willard Gibbs , calculated from the vapour pressures of oxygen given by Estrecker , 1911 .
] Solid Oxygen by the of the Liquid .
, or mm. , corresponding to a'os .
Thus in every case the calculated pressure to the point of abs .
is considerably lower than the value observed , and , assuming the correct pressure to be mm. , the .
calculated melting temperature from these expressions would be as high as from to abs .
* By , using a charcoal condenser to evaporate nitrogen or hydrogen in a similar manner to that described above for , we may confidently anticipate that the respective temperatures of and be reached .
Doubtless liquid helium , which resists solidification by evaporation , would change its state when subjected to the action of a charcoal condenser cooled in liquid helium ; and it even succeed by the use of exhausted liquid hydrogen .
Mr. J. W. Heath , F.C.S. , of the Royal Institution , and ] .
W. Green , B.Sc. , of the Davy-Faraday Laboratory , have been reat assistance in the conduct of these experiments .
Note added ovember 4 , 1911.\mdash ; Subsequent to the ) experiments I determined the temperatures at the time of solidification by the use of a small hydrogen gas thermometer , and found the .
In the meantime , Prof. Onnes has iudependently fouud the point of oxygen to be .
The Willard Gibbs extrapolation value is therefore very near the true temperatul.e .

