]\gt ; 1894 .
] The Asymmefricat Probability Curve .
curves , especially at low pressures , must be considered rather as a convenient way of showing which dots in the figule correspond to any given pressure than as an atbempt at interpolatio1 ) .
IX .
' The Asymmetrical Probability \ldquo ; By F. .
EDGEWORTH , , D.C.L. Communicated by Sir G. G. STOKES , F.R.S. Received June 14 , 1894 .
Abstract .
) The asymmetrical probability is tho second approximation\mdash ; the symmetrical probability curve being the first approximation\mdash ; to bhe of frequency which governs the set of values assumed by a function of numerous independently fluctuating small quantities .
The curve may be written ; where y is the number of errors occurring between and is the mean square of errors , and is he mean cube of errors\mdash ; errors measured from the centre of .
This form is obtained by completing the analysis which Todhunber , after Poisson , has indicated ( ' History of Probabilities , ' Art .
1002 ) ; and inrlependently obtaining a general form for the asymmetric probability curve , and deducing therefrom the Poissonian formula in the case ) tho asymmetry is slight\mdash ; the only case to which tlJat formula is applicAmong the peculiarities of the asymmetric probability curve are the want of coincidence between the arithmetic mean and the position of the greatest ordinate , and the descent of the curve at one extrcmity below the abscissa\mdash ; the ordinate appearing to denote negalive bility .
An important case of the general cnrve is forded by ] for which each of the independent elements admits of values .
The approximate form of the Binomial , obtained directly by Laplace ( Todhunter , 'History , ' Art .
993 ) , is deducible from the general theory .
The general , or mnltinomial , probability curve can always be represented by a binomial .
The principle of the asymmetric proLability curve affords an extension of the theory of correlation ated by Messrs. Galton amilton Dickson ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1886 , p. 03 ) .
rfhe symmetrical obability surface 272 Mr. R. F. Gwyther .
The Differe , [ June becomes now slightly distorted , so that the locus of the most probablt deviation , corresponding to an assigned deviation is no longer straight line , but a parabola .
X. " " The Differenial iants of Twisted Curves , with some Illustrations of the to Quartic Curves By R. F. GWYTHER , , Fielden Lecturel .
in Mathematics , Owens College , Manchester .
Commumcated by Professor HORACE LAMB , F.R.S. Received May 31 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the earlier parts othis paper is to obtain relations Halphen*calls the canonical iants of the curve , without the intervention of what are called by him the fundamental invariants .
In any geometrical investigation it is the canonical invariants which presenb themselves , and the relations between the consecutive canonical invariants , and the values of their differential coefficients must , if the method of investigation is to be used , be expressed , in terms of canonical invariants only , without the intervention of the other series of invariants which Halphen treats as fundamental .
In the paper , the notation of Halphen 's paper above is generally followed , but the mode of initial investigation , as in a previous paper on covariants of plane curves , is made to depend upon a homographic tl'ansformation with infinitesimal arguments .
Writing for the coordinates of a current point , for the coordinates of a point on a standard curve , and and for !
and !
, the arguments of a covariant function are shown to be with ) while is an invariant ich will not appea independently .
other conditions that a function may be covariallt nction are ( 1 ) that it shall bc isobaric , counting , , Sir les Differcntiels des Courbes uches , \ldquo ; ' de l'Ecolo mqnc , dlier 4 , vol. 28 , ' vol. ( A ) , , p. 1171 .

