PEOCEEDINGS OF THE EOYAL SOCIETY .
June 16 , 1870 .
XIV .
" On the Atmospheric Lines of the Solar Spectrum , in a Letter to the President .
" By Lieut. J. H. Hennessey .
Communicated by the President .
Received May 21 , 1870 .
Mussoorie , April 25 , 1870 .
My dear Sir , \#151 ; I have the pleasure to enclose a map of the solar spectrum , including the region from the extreme red to the lines D , and a report on my endeavours to view the zodiacal light .
A complete set of actinometric observations ( simultaneous ) between Dehra and Mussoorie has also been made .
The latter observations are in course of reduction , and will , I trust , be submitted to you ere long .
2 .
Instruments.\#151 ; The set of instruments which the President and Council of the Royal Society were good enough to send out to India under Lieut. HerscheTs care , for my use , was duly handed to me at Bangalore ( Madras Presidency ) when I was on duty there in the winter of 1867-68 .
This set comprises a spectroscope with three flint-glass prisms , a hand-spectroscope , a tube with a double-image prism , and two of Hodgkinson 's actinometers , as detailed in Professor Stokes 's letter ( list ) addressed to the Under Secretary of State for India , dated 31 October , 1867 .
3 .
Narrative.\#151 ; On the completion of my duties at Bangalore I was enabled to bring the instruments up to Mussoorie , where the spectroscope was set up in May 1868 .
Meanwhile , however , the hot season in the plains had set in .
The dust , as usual at this time of the year , filled the atmosphere , so that all hopes of obtaining spectroscopic observations of the sun about the time of sunset were in vain ; and my endeavours to carry out the suggestions of the Committee , which they were so good as to make in connexion with my letter of 13 Feb. 1866 , were reluctantly deferred to the ensuing October , when a clear atmosphere might again be expected .
VOL. XIX .
B 2 Lieut. J. H. Hennessey on the [ June 16 , * 4 .
Position of observatory.\#151 ; With the permission of Colonel Walker , R.E. , Superintendent of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , the spectroscope was placed in the small rotating dome observatory of the Survey department .
It stands on the southernmost range of the Himalaya Mountains , in lat. N. 30 ' 27 ' 41 " , long .
E. 78 ' 6 ' 45 " , height above mean sea-level 6937 feet .
My observations were made in this observatory , excepting the interval last winter , when , in order to command a view of the sun down to the horizon , I shifted the instrument to an adjoining ridge .
5 .
Times of observation..\#151 ; I was not long in ascertaining that between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. no sensible alteration in the spectrum occurred .
I am here speaking of the red end , which has almost exclusively been the subject of my study .
Accordingly , the observations which may be called " sun high " were made between these hours .
It was , however , some time before I discovered that by far the greater effect of the earth 's atmosphere on the spectrum did not occur until the sun was about to dip* under the horizon .
In fact it is only when the sun is some three or four diameters from the horizon that the very considerable alteration of the spectrum begins .
To secure this condition , the atmosphere must be quite free from dust , which , as already implied , rises in great clouds from the plains until deposited by the heavy rains in July and August ; and the sky must be clear of clouds , at least about the horizon .
The lines were watched under these circumstances , and mapped down to the last moment before any serious diminution of light occurred .
These results are given in the map observed " at sunset .
" It is easy to see that such favourable conditions cannot be expected continuously day after day ; and even when available , the time for observation is so very limited , that no results can be obtained without considerable perseverance .
When , however , this exceptional condition of air and sky do occur , the observer who has watched and become familiar with the spectrum sun high , is well rewarded by the decided manner in which the atmospheric lines now stand out , as the sun , still quite bright , is on the point of setting .
6 .
Narrative resumed.\#151 ; Between May and October 1868 I employed my leisure in watching the spectrum sun.high , fully expecting that the brilliant weather of the autumn would enable me to make every endeavour towards carrying out the suggestions of the Committee with the sun low .
But the autumn came and the air was still hazy .
In fact , while the average fall of rain here is some 90 inches , there fell in the season of 1868 only 61 inches , or about two-thirds the usual quantity ; a drought which in the first instance led to the scarcity of food , from which these provinces are only now emerging .
To complete my mortification , I found that the colli* A range of hills to the eastward conceals the view for some degrees in altitude ; so that , though I have repeatedly watched the spectrum of a morning as well , my map is in preference based on the view at Sunset , when the sun can be followed down to the horizon . .
r * .
' - \gt ; . .
1870 .
] Atmospheric Lines of the Solar Spectrum .
mator of the spectroscope had bent , by its own weight , at the flanges where it unites with the drum ; and this deterioration involved remedies for which the available means were but too limited .
In this way the autumn of 1868 passed away , to my great disappointment , without bringing me any results save experience ; and I eventually left Mussoorie , as usual , for the winter of 1868-69 , to carry on my survey duties at Dehra .
7 .
Narrative continued.\#151 ; On my return to this place about the end of April 1869 , I found , as was to be expected , that , owing to the small amount of rain in the winter , the hazy state of the atmosphere still continued ; so that it was not until last October ( 1869 ) that I was able fairly to commence work at sunset .
Even then I had to discover by experiment that , to observe the full atmospheric effect on the spectrum , I must command a view of the sun down to the very horizon .
To suit this new condition , I had to shift the spectroscope twice to adjoining positions , and to modify the map I had already prepared .
8 .
Construction of spectroscope.\#151 ; The spectroscope is made up of a drum containing three flint-glass prisms , one of which may be made non-effective at pleasure .
The collimator unfortunately consists of three pieces , of which the nearest portion is rigidly fixed to the drum .
The second piece unites with the drum piece by means of three screws driven through flanges ; the third piece , which unscrews for packing , bears the slit at its far end .
The spectrum is viewed by a telescope provided with four eye-pieces , whose magnifying-powers I determined with a dynameter to be as follows Eye-piece .
Power .
No. 1 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
, '9 No. 2 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
17 No. 3 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
25 No. 4 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 54 A graduated circle and vernier , read by a side-telescope , provide the means for measuring distances between the lines j and the foregoing are mounted equatorially on a tripod-stand .
9 .
Details.-\#151 ; In observing the spectrum sun high , I was soon struck by the difference in intensity of the lines as seen at Mussoorie and as given in Kirchhoff 's well-known map .
Excepting the decided lines A , B , C , and D , all the others appeared comparatively faint , and even wanting in definition .
It is also worthy of remark , that while Kirchhoff used a power of forty to view the spectrum with , I am unable to employ any higher power than eye-piece No. 2 ( power 17 ) .
My observations were thus made with eye-piece No. 2 , using all three prisms ; and this combination , the most powerful at my command , produced an image only some three-tenths of what Kirchhoff , I presume , actually saw .
10 .
Details.\#151 ; The comparative smallness of image presented to view has necessarily added sensibly to the difficulties of the undertaking ; for , 4 Lieut. J. H. Hennessey on the [ June 16 , understanding the Committee to suggest that I should adopt Kirchhoff 's map and scale as a basis , it became incumbent on me to magnify the image actually viewed some three times before sketching it on my map .
As an aid towards this end , I removed the strong metal cross wires in the telescope , and replaced them by two tolerably stout silk fibres , parallel to one another , and rather more apart than the image of B sun high .
I could thus compare a given line with one of the fibres , or , where more convenient , with the space between them ; and , through the intervention of the fibres , compare any one line with any other .
These comparisons of magnitude wrere thus all mental , there being no micrometer in the eyepiece to measure small spaces with , and the smallest quantity that I could measure on the circle being the distance between the two lines in D. In selecting a relative unit between Kirchhoff 's and my map , I have adopted the breadth he has assigned to the line A. This line will therefore be found equally wide in his map and in mine at sunset .
The necessity for enlarging the image leads to an unintentional deception , deserving notice .
It will be seen that my line A , for instance , is equally and intensely black throughout ; whereas the same line , shown at the same width in Kirchhoff 's map ( 402 to 407 ) , is made up of several lines of varying intensity .
This difference is due to the lesser power of my instrument ; and in all probability the line up here would decompose into its component lines under greater dispersion .
11 .
Necessity for constructing my map from independent .\#151 ; The want of intensity generally in the spectrum sun high at Mussoorie , combined with the smaller power of the instrument , made it exceedingly difficult , and in most cases impossible , to identify individual lines in Kirchhoff 's map with corresponding ones under view ; so that , after making every endeavour at identification , I was obliged to content myself with adopting the positions ( sun high ) assigned by him to the strong lines A , B , C , and D , and to place all the other lines of sensible intensity by means of differential measures and interpolation .
Practically speaking , this amounted to the construction of a new map , so far as my wants were concerned .
12 .
Definitions.\#151 ; By a constant line is intended one that presents the same appearance at sunset or sun high ; a variable grows darker at sunset , and , generally speaking , widens out ; and an atmospheric or air-line is invisible only sun high .
By a band may be understood those broad belts which suddenly appear like shadows at sunset ; instances of bands occur on both sides of C and elsewhere .
13 .
Lines mapped.\#151 ; Every variable or air-line ( or band ) sensibly visible has been measured and mapped ; but of the constant lines only those sufficiently intense to be easily intersected were observed and placed .
It appeared undesirable to crowd the map with a large number of faint lines , whose property of constancy made their presence in an atmospheric map redundant .
On the other hand , the introduction of certain constant and 1870 .
] Atmospheric Lines of the Solar Spectrum .
sufficiently intense lines proves valuable for purposes of identification .
I may add in this place , that no lines whatever are here visible between B and C ; and this fact will afford some means of estimating the relative intensity of spectrum viewed at Mussoorie and that mapped by Kirchhoff .
14 .
Direct sunlight employed.\#151 ; On first commencing work , I endeavoured to follow the plan adopted by Kirchhoff and employ a heliostat for reflecting the sun 's rays ; but , unlike the Professor , I was unable to command the clockwork for driving the heliostat .
The variability of light under these circumstances proved intolerable ; add to this the necessity for observing the sun as late in the evening as possible , made the introduction of any absorbing medium undesirable ; and , lastly , the object of maintaining a constancy of circumstances between sun high and sunset , led me to prefer pointing the collimator direct to the sun .
I therefore screened the drum and its prisms with an ample sunshade , and received the light from the sun directly on to the slit of the spectroscope .
15 .
Identification of constant lines.\#151 ; It will be seen that in the space A to C there appears but little for recognition .
No doubt the following groups are , generally speaking , identical , viz.:\#151 ; My map , sun high .
Kirchhoff 's map .
Group 469-492 is the same as 470-492 .
" 499-508 " " 498-509 .
" 570-586 " " 570-587 .
But the component lines , group by group , are widely different , and several sensibly intense lines in the Professor 's map between 541 and 564 are absent here .
16 .
Constant lines , continued.\#151 ; In the space C to D the identification is more frequent and definite .
My 711 and 719 are clearly represented in Kirchhoff 's map , and between the latter line and 795 several other cases of identity occur .
Further on , towards D , the resemblance is not clear ; until on arrival at the variable lines between my 955 and D recognition becomes impossible .
Remembering that my map has been prepared from perfectly independent measures , I am naturally glad of establishing identification , where possible , with the Professor 's map , for the evidence such identity offers of the accuracy of my work .
Until my map had been finished , and the scale of millimetres drawn above it , the means of making a comparison were all wanting .
17 .
Comparison of variable and air-lines.\#151 ; In discussing the variable and air-lines , I much regret my inability to adopt the suggestions of the Committee , and institute a comparison with Sir David Brewster 's and Dr. Gladstone 's map given in the Philosophical Transactions for 1860 .
The volume in question is , unfortunately , one of the few of its kind not at present included in the library of the Great Trigonometrical Survey ; nor am I aware that any other library in these provinces possesses a copy .
The only map of the kind to which I have access is that by Janssen , given in Lieut. J. II .
Hennessey on the [ June 16 , Roseoe 's Spectrum Analysis , fig. 57 .
The scale adopted in this diagram is , however , only about half that of KirchhofF 's , and the lines are so very numerous that identification is exceedingly difficult .
It is evident , however , that my 812 , a notably variable line , is identical with his 254 .
18 .
The same , continued.\#151 ; Comparing with the lines numerically alluded to by Kirchhoff in his appendix as atmospheric lines , the following coincidences ( nearly ) appear :\#151 ; My map at sunset .
711 ... ... 955 ... ... 9G1 ... ... 967 ... ... 971 ... ... 973 ... ... 977 ... ... 987 ... ... 990 ... ... .
KirchhofF 's list of atmospheric lines .
... ... ... ... 711*4 ... ... ... . .
954 2 ... ... ... . .
96 I * f 965*7 1 ... ... ... . .
1 968*7 J ... ... ... . .
970-5 ... ... ... . .
972-1 ... ... ... . .
977*4 ... ... ... ... .
988*9 ... ... ... 989*6 In assuming the foregoing identities , I have been guided necessarily merely by numerical coincidences .
All the foregoing , in the proposed nomenclature , are variable lines , not air-lines .
19 .
Discussion of air-lines and bands.\#151 ; Again , comparing my map sun high with that at sunset , and beginning from the red end , the first group met with are the air-bands 262 to 302 .
These bands , so far as I am aware , have not been placed before , if seen .
I have seen and taken measures to them repeatedly ; but without the interposition of a blue glass they were invisible .
The slit , too , must be sensibly widened .
The whole group is nearly at the end of the luminous rays , where , at sun high , almost complete darkness prevails ; and after careful watching of this group , I cannot help entertaining the belief that the range of the luminous rays increases towards the red end of the spectrum as the sun approaches the horizon .
With the sun high , hardly any light reaches so far as 262 of the scale .
When , however , the sun is setting , this part of the spectrum lights up sensibly .
I am even inclined to assert that other bands exist still further removed from A than the group under notice ; they , however , appeared too faint for intersection .
May it not be anticipated that , at considerable terrestrial altitudes , an extension of the spectrum will occur both at the violet and red ends ?
20 .
The same , continued.\#151 ; Between 508 and 570 a very marked succession of air-lines and bands occur .
Indeed , so far as I have been able to glance at the spectrum in general , the most refrangible rays appear the most liable to absorption .
The air-bands about C and D are worthy of notice , as also are the air-lines 724 and 726 .
21 .
Discussion of variable lines.\#151 ; Both A and B appear as lines of this iiliiiiliiiiliinlmiliiiiiimliiii lniiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiiiliiiilmilimliiiiliiilliiiiimiJ Hennessey 101 ^ 100 WRWesUy.lUk .
Atmospheric Lines of the Solar Spectrum .
1870 .
] class .
In the absence of a micrometer for measuring small spaces , I have assumed that in widening out at sunset A does so equally on both sides ; on the contrary , 13 , I believe , maintains its left ( or violet ) edge constant , and changes towards its right ( or red ) edge .
The line 812 is the most notably variable I have observed .
Unlike other lines , it commences to change quite two to three hours before sunset .
The darkening is gradual until near sunset , when it suddenly becomes black , and the band to the right as suddenly appears .
The variable lines are , however , so numerous , that further notice of them might prove tedious reading .
I therefore content myself by calling attention to the fact that , so far as I have the means of judging , the variable lines at sunset and sun high superpose one another , \#151 ; more accurately speaking , on the former occasion , when they are generally wider , they include the position occupied sun high .
I need hardly dwell on the circumstance that the loss of light which no doubt occurs near sunset cannot be the cause of the widening out in these lines ; for constant lines , identified with KirchhofF 's , stand mapped in the vicinity of variable lines of greater and lesser refrangibility .
22 .
Concluding remarks.\#151 ; At the time of writing the air is so laden with dust that you may gaze on the setting sun with impunity ; and spectroscopic observation , even at several degrees of altitude , is impossible .
But when the ensuing rainy season is approaching its termination , and the exquisitely clear state of atmosphere once more returns , I hope to make good progress with the map ; and also to try and ascertain* , by comparison of the map already made with the actual objects , if the variable and atmospheric lines and bands change their appearance from time to time .
A variation of the latter kind might open out a vast field of inquiry .
23 .
Proposed alteration of spectroscope.\#151 ; Though quite willing meanwhile to continue the work with the spectroscope as it now stands , I should consider it a great boon if you would allow me to send it to England for certain improvements .
These I briefly indicate as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
One or even two additional prisms might be introduced into the drum , so as to increase the dispersion .
2 .
The collimator should be made up into one piece with the drum , and this may be done simply by uniting the present three pieces firmly together .
3 .
A micrometer introduced at the eye-end of the telescope would be invaluable .
The stand answers every purpose , so that it might be useless sending it home , unless any delay is likely to occur in improvising a stand to adjust and test the instrument .
Should I receive a favourable reply by the return mail , the spectroscope ought to reach Messrs. Trougliton and Simms by the end of July ; and if they could undertake to do the needful alterations by the end of August , it would , if despatched immediately overland , reach me about the first week in October , just in time for the fine weather .
Unless , however , these dates are not exceeded , I should lose the observing season , and this would be lamentable .
24 .
The same.\#151 ; Even should the foregoing meet with approval , I am * Report of the Committee , last paragraph of S 4 .
8 On the Atmospheric Lines of the Solar Spectrum .
[ Jane 16 , aware that without suitable supervision the alterations could not be carried out satisfactorily ; and in saying this , I make no doubt that Messrs. Trough-ton and Simms would perform their part in their usual effective manner .
I already owe Mr. Huggins a considerable debt of gratitude for past superintendence ; and his kindness on that occasion induces me to venture the hope that he would undertake to direct such alterations as may be approved of with despatch .
25 .
Zodiacal light.\#151 ; Every attention has been given to this subject , but the only result obtained is , that no traces whatever of the zodiacal light are visible here .
I was on the watch in October and the early part of November 1868 .
In April and May of 1869 my absence on duty at Dehra prevented my devoting more than an occasional evening to the subject .
Last autumn , however , I gave it every attention , but all without seeing the light .
The following extract from my note-book , made the first morning of my watching last winter , is a representative of all subsequent entries :\#151 ; 13th October , 1869 .
Mussoorie Observatory.\#151 ; A beautifully clear morning .
Not a speck of cloud or mist to be seen .
The horizon , S.S.E. by S. to S.S.W. , appears sharp and distinct , though some 90miles distant .
To the north , the snowy range , though some 60 miles away , appears hardly a day 's journey from this .
The light is gradually increasing ; the red rays now tinge the sky ; the sky itself brightens ; the highest peaks of the snowy range are tipped with light ; the sun bursts over the hills as if in a moment .
All this has happened without any wings or rays preceding the sun .
In other words , no traces of the zodiacal light have appeared .
26 .
The same , continued.\#151 ; I watched for the light on the mornings of the 14th , 18t'n , 21st , 23rd , and 29th October , and on the 1st , 9th , and 15th November , I860. .
On all these occasions the air and sky were beautifully clear .
Other dates of watching , under Mwfavourable circumstances , are excluded from this list .
Though no zodiacal light appeared to me at Mussoorie , it is worthy of remark that Colonel Walker , while travelling by post across the plains of Central India , saw a brilliant show of the light ( as far as I can reckon ) between the 12th and 15th of November , 1869 .
Recently I watched for the light on the evenings of the 11th , 12th , 13th , and 14th April , 1870 , with the same results as before .
27 .
The same , conclusion.\#151 ; How far these facts supply a connecting-link between the earth s atmosphere as a medium and the zodiacal light I leave for the consideration of more competent authorities .
The information may have some special interest for Mr. Balfour Stewart , who , I learn from the monthly notices of the Royal Astronomical Society , has given the subject some attention .
28 .
Actinometrical observations.\#151 ; Discussion of these observations is deferred until , with the assistance of Mr. W. II .
Cole , M.A. , I am able to reduce and forward the results already obtained .
The two actinometers ( Hodgkinson 's ) work capitally , and are in good order .
Amongst other observations , they have been compared with one another .
Unfortunately 1870 .
] The Earl of Rosse on Lunar-Heat Radiation .
a 0 may be good enough to consider the desirability of sending me a third actinometer of the same kind , due comparison being first made at Kew , whereby the relation between the instrument at the Observatory ( Kew ) and those sent out to me by the Royal Society may be established .
press of other work precluded them from comparison with the instrument tandard ) at Kew Observatory .
After inspection of the observations , you XV .
" On the Radiation of Heat from the Moon.\#151 ; No. II .
" By the Earl of Rosse , F.R.S. Received June 14 , 1870 .
In a former communication to the Royal Society I gave a short account of some experiments on the radiation of heat from the moon , made with the three-foot reflector at Parsonstown , during the season of 1868-1869 .
I then showed : 1st .
That the moon 's heat can be detected with certainty at any time between the first and last quarter , and that , as far as could be ascertained from so imperfect a series of observations , the increase and decrease of her heat , with her phases , seems to be proportional to the increase and decrease of her light , as deduced by calculation* .
2ndly .
That a much smaller percentage of lunar than of solar rays is transmitted by a plate of glass , and we therefore infer that a large portion of the rays of high refrangibility , which reach the moon from the sun , do not at once leave the moon 's surface , but are first absorbed , raise the temperature of the surface , and afterwards leave it as heat-rays of low refrangibility .
3rdly .
That , neglecting the effect of want of transparency in our atmosphere , and assuming , in the absence of any definite information on the subject , that the radiating-power of the moon 's surface is equal to that of a blackened tin vessel filled with water , the lunar surface passes through a range of 500 ' F. of temperature ; consequently the actual range is probably considerably more .
4thly .
The proportion between the intensity of sunlight and moonlight , and between the heat which comes from the sun and from the moon , as deduced from those observations , agreed as nearly as could be expected with the values found by independent methods , and for this reason might be considered the more reliable .
During the past season these observations have been continued , but much time has been spent in trying various modifications of the apparatus , and a satisfactory comparison of observations made on different nights , under different circumstances , has been impossible ; however , by more numerous and more complete experiments , made alternately with and without an inter* See the Proceedings of the Royal Society , No. 112 , 1869 , page 439 .

