PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. A Letter from James Badenach , M. D. to Matthew Maty , M. D. Sec. R. S. containing a technical Description of an uncommon Bird from Malacca .
SIR , I Here present you a curious and uncommon species of bird , which I met with at Malacca in August 1770 .
The male , female , and two young ones , were purchased at that place from the natives , but died soon afterwards on VOL. LXII .
B board Read Jan. 9 , board of ship , in the passage from that port to China .
The character and history of this bird , as they then occurred to me , and were immediately noted down in my journal , in the manner of the great Linnaeus , are as follows .
TA B. I. Mas .
Magnitudo perdricis vulgaris , corpus supra virescens , subtus nigricans , remiges primores griseae , cauda brevis rotundata , apice nigro .
Frons calva , crista coccinea ex occipite orta , e 15 circiter plumulis sesquipollicaribus , respectu capitis , suberecta , divaricata .
Rostrum convexum breve ; mandibula superior nigra , supra inferiorem , margin rubro cerato , imbricata ; nares oblongae , orbitae rubrae , oculi purpurei ; ad basin rostri mystaces aliquot albescentes .
Femora seminuda , tibiae longae , rubrae , graciles .
Pedes tetradactyli , fissi incarnati , subnodosi , digitus posticus reliquis crassior , brevior , truncatusque .
Faemina .
Mare paulo minor , crista nulla , remiges primores &amp; tectrices alarm rufo ferrugineae .
Pulli .
Pulli lanuginosi atri , aqua delectantes .
Vox .
Mas &amp; faemina voce sonora frequenter sibilant .
Nidus inter gramina , arundinesque .
Victus .
Oryza , pane in aqua missa vescitur .
Philos. Trans. Vol. LXII .
Tab. Ip.2 .
The Male from the Peninsula of Malacca .
What genus this bird is properly to be referred to , I shall not pretend to determine ; but if you think this , though but imperfect account , worth the communicating to your Society , you have my leave ; and I am , with respect , SIR , Your most obedient , and most humble servant , James Badenach , M. D. London , October 13 , 1771 .

