\gt ; 4 On Absorption-Spectra .
[ May 4 , or once and a half the volume of air in the room .
If the inmates have each 1000 cubic feet of space , it follows that either their supply of fresh air is short by 1500 cubic feet per head per hour , or else that there are sources of excessive humidity within the air-space which demand immediate removal .
II .
u On the Effect of Heat on the Chloride , Bromide , and Iodide , of Silver .
" By G. F. Rodwell , F.R.A.S. , F.C.S. , Science Master in Marlborough College .
Communicated by Professor Tyndall , F.R.S. Received March 10 , 1876 .
III .
" On the Effects of Heat on some Chloro-brom-iodides of Silver .
" By G. F. Rodwell , F.R.A.S. , F.C.S. , Science Master in Marlborough College .
Communicated by Frederick Guthrie , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics in the Royal School of Mines .
Received April 13 , 1876 .
IV .
" On the Absorption-Spectra of Bromine and Iodine Monochloride .
" By H. E. Roscoe , F.R.S. , and T. E. Thorpe .
Received March 16 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) The paper contains the results of an exact series of measurements of the absorption-spectra of the vapours of the element bromine and of the compound iodine monochloride , made with the object of ascertaining whether the molecules of these two gases vibrate identically or similarly , their molecular weights and colour of the vapours being almost identical .
The two spectra , which are both channelled , were compared simultaneously by means of one of Kirchhoff 's 4-prism spectroscopes , the position of the lines being read off by reflection on an arbitrary scale .
In order to determine the wave-lengths of these bands , the wave-length of each of 27 air-lines lying between the extremes of the absorption-spectra was ascertained by reference to Thalen 's numbers ; whilst for the purpose of reducing the readings of the absorption-bands to wave-lengths a graphical method was employed , the details of which are given in the paper .
This method appears to be one of general applicability for the plotting of spectra .
Tables then follow giving the wave-lengths of 66 bands of each absorption-spectrum ; and a map accompanies the text in which the bands are drawn to a scale one half that of Angstrom 's " Spectre Normal .
" A careful comparison of these Tables and of the map shows that , although both spectra contain a large number of lines which are nearly coincident , the spectra as a whole are not identical , either when the vapours are examined at high or low temperatures , or when the lengths of the columns of absorbing gas are varied .

