106 Address of the President , Sir William Crookes , O.M. , at the Anniversary Meeting on November 30 , 1914 .
Since the last Anniversary the Eoyal Society has lost by death sixteen Fellows and six Foreign Members .
It is my sad duty to express our united sorrow at the loss .
Sir David Gill\#151 ; the greatest practical astronomer of our times and a scientific worker of peculiarly high ideals died in London early in the present year after long illness .
Sir David Gill 's work as Her Majesty 's Astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope brought him great distinction .
His energy was superabundant and his enthusiasm unbounded .
Owing to his efforts the Observatory at the Cape has become one of the leading observatories of the world .
He attracted a keen band of workers , who were encouraged to publish the results of much valuable work achieved under his guidance .
He also inspired many younger astronomers , some of whom have now come to the front .
His keen appreciation of accurate work , his engineering skill which enabled him to eliminate small systematic errors , made his parallax work with the heliometer the high-water mark of practical astronomy .
His work was also directed to great astronomical problems , which he attacked with enthusiasm and persistency .
The geodetic work which he directed ranks with the great Russian and Indian works .
His ' History and Description of the Royal Observatory , Cape of Good Hope , ' contains a remarkable record of his wonderful powers of organisation , his extraordinary determination in overcoming difficulties , and his self-confidence\#151 ; fully justified by the outcome of his projects .
His best known researches were on stellar and solar parallax , and on the determination of the mass of the moon , and of Jupiter .
Gill 's single-mindedness and strong personality won him many friends and admirers , who sincerely mourn his death .
The death of Prof. John Henry Pointing has deprived the scientific world of a physicist to whose work it is difficult to do justice in a brief report .
Appointed Professor of Physics in Birmingham in 1880 , Pointing became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1888 .
In 1905 he was elected President of the Physical Society , and was awarded a Royal Medal by the Royal Society for his researches in physical science , especially in connection with the gravitation constant and the theories of electrodynamics , and ladiation .
His determination of the Newtonian constant of gravitation by the process known as " weighing the earth " was published in 1891 .
The theorem , known by his name , connecting mechanical motion with electric Anniversary Address by Sir W. Crookes .
107 and magnetic forces is a fundamental generalisation\#151 ; and his work , both theoretical and experimental , upon radiation pressure was hardly less important .
He proved that a beam of light behaves in all respects like a stream of momentum , and he evolved a method of determining the absolute temperature of the sun , the planets , and of space .
He was the author of a well known series of text-books of physics , written in collaboration with Sir J. J. Thomson ; he also wrote some interesting popular books on scientific subjects .
His position as Dean of the Faculty of Science at the University of Birmingham brought him into intimate contact with many students who will inevitably remember his name with veneration and affection .
In Prof. Pointing we have lost a man of delightful personality and remarkable originality .
Prof. George M. Minchin , who died in March , was a man of great versatility , who won renown in more than one branch of natural knowledge .
For many years he was Professor of Mathematics at Cooper 's Hill Engineering College\#151 ; and he was the author of original and widely used works on Statics , Kinematics , and Hydrostatics .
He was a polished writer both of prose and verse , and was the master of a clear and graphic style .
His pioneer experimental work on photo-electricity and selenium cells was begun in 1877 , when he discovered that electric currents are produced by the action of light upon silver plates coated with emulsions of bromide or other silver salt ; the cells he called " impulsion cells , " which had their sensitiveness to light altered by slight impulses or taps , embodied the principle of the coherer used for the reception of the Hertzian waves .
He afterwards observed that similar results could be obtained by using two selenium-coated aluminium wires dipped in certain solutions ; and in 1908 he described , in a communication to the Royal Society , further researches on new forms of the photo-electric cells , and on " seleno-aluminium bridges , " which consisted of two aluminium plates separated by a thin flake of mica , and having a layer of sensitive selenium across one end of the mica and the adjacent portions of the aluminium plates .
He used his cells to obtain measurable electromotive forces from the light of stars , and thus determined the relative intensity of the light of some of the fixed stars and planets .
The results of his investigations agreed closely with those of photometric measurements of stellar magnitude .
When Cooper 's Hill College was closed Prof. Minciiin went to live at Oxford , where he remained until his death .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1895 .
The death of Sir Joseph Wilson Swan in his 86th year has deprived the scientific world of a distinguished investigator\#151 ; and me , personally , of an intimate and valued friend .
Sir Joseph Swan had a mind of extraordinary K 2 Anniversary Address by Sir Crookes .
fertility of invention .
At the same time he was endowed with an unusual amount of business capacity\#151 ; a fortunate combination of qualities rarely found .
In his young days he was specially interested in photographic research .
He was the discoverer of the first commercially practicable process of carbon printing , which he patented in 1862 .
He discovered the method of making extremely rapid dry plates , which revolutionised photography ; and he also invented and patented the bromide printing process .
Another field of research in which he won renown was the application of electricity in illumination .
As early as 1860 he had constructed an electric carbon filament glow-lamp , which he subsequently improved , finally arriving at the form which , until quite recently , was universally used .
He discovered a valuable method of rapid deposition of copper , and also devised improvements in the construction of secondary batteries .
His distinguished services to Science were recognised by the Eoyal Society , which elected him to its Fellowship in 1894 , and 10 years later awarded him the Hughes Medal , by the Society of Chemical Industry , which bestowed upon him a gold medal , and by the Eoyal Society of Arts , which awarded him the Albert Medal in 1904 .
By his discoveries and inventions Sir Joseph Swan did much to benefit what we perhaps mistakenly call " civilisation " ; the practical value of his investigations , more particularly in the applications of electricity , is unequalled in the history of Science .
Dr. George James Burch , who had been elected a Fellow of the Eoyal Society in 1900 , passed away in March this year .
Dr. Burch for many years was Professor of Physics at University College , Eeading ; he was also a University Extension Staff Lecturer at Oxford\#151 ; where he lived .
His early investigations were connected with electro-physiology , and he discovered a method of analysing electrometer curves , a description of which he published in 1890 .
His later years were devoted to the study of the physiology of vision ; he published an interesting memorandum on Sight Tests , as well as a book describing the practical work done under his direction at the Physiological Laboratory at Oxford .
In this book the highly original tests and exercises he evolved were described .
His knowledge of visual physiology was unique , and he achieved an eminent degree of success in the subject which he made specially his own .
In his keen prosecution of research he was unsparing of strength and energy ; it is said that in order to study colour-blindness he made himself temporarily colour-blind by exposing his eyes to the sunlight in the focus of a burning glass behind different coloured glasses .
In lebruary the death occurred of Horace Bolingbroke Woodward , who , Anniversary Address by Sir W. Crookes .
109 from 1867 to 1908 , had taken an active part in the Geological Survey .
He was in charge of the work in England and Wales for the last seven and a-half years .
Woodward 's knowledge of British geology , and especially of stratigraphical geology , was profound .
He published many memoirs on geological subjects , and he was the author of a valuable and original work on the Geology of England and Wales .
He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1896 , and served on the Council of the Geological Society for several years , being Vice-President from 1904 to 1906 .
He was an indefatigable worker and his writings were characterised by the great stress he laid upon accuracy in the minutest detail .
He also had a gift for writing in an interesting and non-technical style which made a special appeal to the general reader .
Although he was forced to retire from the Geological Survey some time before his death , he continued his literary work as long as strength would allow\#151 ; and almost to the very end of his life he was engaged in preparing the statistical part of a Survey Memoir on Water Supply .
His many friends , and especially those who were associated with him on the Survey , will long remember him with grateful affection for the help and sympathy he willingly lavished , and for the example he set of untiring industry and enthusiasm .
Dr. Albert C. L. G. GUntiier had a distinguished career as a zoologist , and the progress of the science owed much to his investigations .
He was appointed Keeper of the Department of Zoology of the British Museum in 1857\#151 ; under his charge the department was brought to a high state of efficiency .
He published many communications in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' and the ' Proceedings ' of the Zoological and Linnean Societies , and he founded the ' Record of Zoological Literature , ' editing the first six volumes .
In 1878 he received a Royal Medal from the Royal Society for his work in zoology and especially for his researches in herpetology and ichthyology .
The death of Dr. Walter Holbrook Gaskell in the full tide of his powers is a heavy blow to his friends and a great loss to the scientific world .
Dr. Gaskell exercised a powerful influence upon the development of physiological science .
His early research work in physiology was inspired by Michael Foster and by Karl Ludwig of Leipzig .
His work upon the mechanism of the beat of the heart was that of a pioneer of great originality and intrepidity .
His investigations of the sympathetic nervous system were of fundamental importance , and his generalisations were far-reaching and based upon keen observational powers .
His views upon morphological questions were original and in some respects at variance with those of other authorities .
His later years were spent in accumulating material in support Anniversary Address by Sir W. Crookes .
of his theories and in expounding them in fuller detail .
He was a keen and vigorous worker in physiology .
He can ill be spared and his loss will long be severely felt .
* The death of Dr. Philip Henry Pye-Smith after a long and busy life occurred in May .
Owing to ill-health he passed the latter years of his life in retirement .
He will be greatly missed by the wide circle of friends and acquaintances who were attracted by his geniality and kindness , his wide interests and profound knowledge .
He led a life of great public activity , and received many honours from Scientific Societies and Universities .
He served on the Council of the Eoyal Society in 1891-92 ; besides his work as physician to Guy 's Hospital , he found time to edit Fagge 's work on the \lt ; Principles and Practice of Medicine .
' He also published many papers on medical subjects .
He was one of the great authorities upon skin diseases , and was keenly interested in the history of Medicine .
He was an admirable lecturer ; countless students have reason to be grateful to him for his careffil training and his insistence upon the importance of accurate observation and cautious deduction .
Geological science suffered a severe loss in the death , in August , of Alfred John Jukes-Browne .
At the end of a successful University career at Cambridge , where he did excellent work under Prof. T. G- .
Bonney , Jukes-Browne joined the Geological Survey .
Afterwards he specialised in the palaeontological zones in English chalk strata .
He also investigated the oceanic deposits of Barbados , and he was the author of highly successful and widely used text-books on general Geology .
He received the Murchison Medal of the Geological Society in recognition of his valuable services .
Although severely hampered throughout the greater part of his life by ill-health , and for the last twelve years forced to live a secluded and quiet life , his work will long survive , and his name be remembered as that of one of the most distinguished geologists of his day .
In the Eight Hon. Joseph Chamberlain and Viscount Cross the Eoyal Society has lost two distinguished members .
They put forth no claim to be regarded as scientific specialists , but each was inspired to turn some page of " Nature 's infinite Book of Secrecy .
" Ihe narrative of the career of Sir John Murray , who also died this year , is full of interest and romance .
Owing to his tireless activity and his strong individuality , he was responsible for an amount of brilliant work hardly equalled by that of any other investigator in the same sphere .
His early scientific training , during which he refrained from specialising in any particular branch , but studied all subjects which interested him , laid the foundation of his extraordinarily wide knowledge .
His adaptability and Anniversary Address by Sir Crookes .
Ill resource were qualities which were invaluable to his colleagues upon the " Challenger " Expedition , to which he was appointed Naturalist .
He proved himself to be a remarkably acute observer , of strong deductive powers and sound judgment : he had the courage of his convictions and was never chary of attacking established views when lie believed he could prove them to be incorrect .
His theory of the origin of Coral islands , which after much controversy was finally almost universally accepted , was from the geological point of view revolutionary .
His investigation of the fresh-water lochs of Scotland is a remarkable piece of work .
He was keenly interested in the exploration of the Sea , and made many voyages on his own yacht for the purpose of oceanographic investigation .
He had a strong business instinct , and although throughout the whole of his long career he was deeply imbued with a love of Besearch for its own sake , he was always capable of quickly perceiving the commercial applications of his conclusions .
Upon several occasions he gave valuable practical advice to the Government .
The late Lord Strathcona and Mount Eoyal\#151 ; elected a Fellow of the Eoyal Society in 1904\#151 ; will long be remembered as one who gave his whole life and all his powers to the extension of the British Empire and the strengthening of the bonds of its union .
His indomitable courage in the early dangerous and difficult days which he spent in Labrador and on the shores of Hudson 's Bay , his foresight and determination in carrying out the project of the Canadian Pacific Eailway , admirably revealed the temper of the man .
The memory of his splendid patriotism and generosity will live long after him .
In June the death occurred of Joseph Eeynolds Green\#151 ; an active worker in physiological and botanical research and a prolific writer on these subjects .
He made a special study of enzyme action , and was the discoverer of lipase in the germinating seed of the castor-oil plant .
His writings are characterised by great lucidity and aeeui'acy , and his contributions to botanical science are of considerable importance .
Another name must be added to the heavy list of losses sustained by science during the past year\#151 ; namely , that of Alexander Boss-Clarke , in charge of the Trigonometrical Operations of the Ordnance Survey from 1854 to 1881 , and whose knowledge of geodesy was unsurpassed by that of any man of our time .
His genius for mathematical calculation excites keenest admiration ; his treatise on ' Geodesy ' is universally admitted to be the best book on the subject .
Among the Foreign Members of the Eoyal Society whom death has recently removed from our midst are Dr. Weir Mitchell , Prof. L. Hermann , Prof. A. Weismann , Dr. H. Kronecker , Dr. G. W. Hill , and Prof. E. Suess .
Anniversary Address by Sir 11 .
Crookes .
Dr Silas Weir Mitchell died in January last in his eighty-fifth year , his mental and bodily vigour continuing to the end .
He was one of the foremost neurologists of the day , and his numerous books on nervous diseases made his name a household word in the profession .
Moreover , he achieved a remarkable success in the domain of fiction , some of his novels taking a foremost place .
Prof. Ludimar Hermann , of the University of Konigsberg , was the author of the ' Handbuch der Physiologie , ' and for many years was Editor ( of the 'Jahresberichte fiber der Fortschritte der Physiologie .
Prof. August Weismann , of the University of Freiburg , received the Darwin Medal of the Eoyal Society in 1908 .
He contributed largely to the study of Evolution and was one of the earliest writers in support of the Darwinian theory .
Dr. Kronecker was a tireless worker in physiology .
His researches at the Berne Physiological Institute won for him a truly world-wide reputation .
He was the author of valuable monographs upon the physiology of the muscles and nerves .
The death of George William Hill removes from our midst one of the leading exponents of nineteenth century Celestial Mechanics .
The two papers which contained his chief researches in the Lunar theory have , at the hands of Poincare , Sir George Darwin , and others , created a new method of treating Lunar problems , and have also led to the formation of a new theory and tables of the Earth 's moon .
The theories of Jupiter and Saturn , with tables for these planets\#151 ; which he completed in 1892\#151 ; have superseded all previous work .
His papers in four volumes are published by the Carnegie Institute of Washington .
He possessed unusual intuition\#151 ; another name for genius\#151 ; into the possibilities of the subjects he treated , and the originality of his methods was one of their most distinctive features .
Prof. Eduard Suess was a geologist of great eminence , whose position amongst exponents of the science was unique .
His monumental work on the I ace of the Earth 5 has been aptly described as the culmination and crown of the geology of the nineteenth century .
It was Suess who brought together and collated the observations of all who have studied the form of the earth , and in addition much original work in both stratigraphical and palaeontological geology was due to him .
1 robably at no time in its history has the financial responsibility of the Royal Society been more perplexing than it is to-day .
At the last Anniversary Meeting the President , Sir Archibald Geikie , referred to the annual expenditure Tm the National Physical Laboratory .
He pointed out that should Anniversary Address by Sir IT .
Crookes .
113 there be any serious falling off in receipts\#151 ; such as might be caused by an interruption or stagnation of industrial enterprise\#151 ; there would necessarily be a serious deficit , and that it would be impossible promptly to reduce the working expenses\#151 ; at that time met by the receipts .
The financial strain foreshadowed by my predecessor has now befallen us .
It is , however , to be hoped that , in view of the national character of the Laboratory , of the great services which it is rendering to the nation\#151 ; services which are of extreme importance at the present crisis , \#151 ; the Government may see fit to come to our assistance , so as to enable the Society to continue the work of this great Institution\#151 ; a work which the Society 's own resources will not enable it to do in existing circumstances .
Those resources must of necessity have a great strain thrown on them in other directions , for we have now to face heavy liabilities in connection with our own 'Catalogue of Scientific Papers ( 1880-1900 ) ' and the preparation of the 'International Catalogue of the Scientific Literature of the Present Century .
' On the foundation of the latter , the Society undertook to be responsible for the completion of the former .
The cost of this has , owing to the vast increase of scientific literature at the close of the last century , proved to be largely in excess of the sum provided for its production , mainly by the generosity of the late Dr. Ludwig Mond ; and thus the necessary funds have had to be supplied by the Society itself , as at the present time it would be out of the question to appeal for further donations for this object .
On the other hand , while it is certain that , owing to the World upheaval , a large part of the subscriptions from Continental nations , by which the cost of the production of the International Catalogue is defrayed , will not be forthcoming , the Society remains liable for the expense of the issue now in course of publication\#151 ; an expense which must be large .
At the time of our greatest need we are confronted with the possibility of a serious diminution in income .
The strengthening of the hands of our Government has rightly been regarded as having the first call on those in a position to render financial aid .
Like every private individual the Royal Society must limit its expenditure and practise economy .
On the other-hand , we have imperative responsibilities and a duty to the nation which cannot be shirked .
We dare not allow ourselves to slacken in our devotion to Research\#151 ; but the fact remains that our need of money is greater now than ever .
Our special object is to vivify and stir the spirit of philosophic inquiry and of scientific glory , at a moment when another kind of " Glory " transfixes the whole of the civilised\#151 ; or shall we say uncivilised\#151 ; world .
I will quote from Sir Humphry Davy 's discourse on the occasion of his taking the Chair of the Royal Society for the first time in 1820:\#151 ; " Let us then 114 Anniversary Address by Sir TV .
Crookes .
labour together and steadily endeavour to gain what are perhaps the noblest objects of ambition\#151 ; acquisitions which may be useful to our fellow creatures .
Let it not be said that at a period when our Empire was at its highest pitch of greatness , the Sciences began to decline ; let us rather hope that posterity will find in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' of our own days proofs that we were not unworthy of the times in which we lived .
" Science ought to be one of the great bonds of union and peace between Nations .
Surely it would be a disaster to the whole world if the usefulness of the Royal Society were to be restricted by mere lack of funds .
Many enquiries of vast importance have not received the support they deserved from the Royal Society solely owing to want of funds .
To-day money is diverted to other urgent uses .
It is nothing short of scientific tragedy that learned Societies are for the moment overlooked .
It is the duty of those whom Davy spoke of as having been honoured with the rank of Generals in the army of scientific workers , to keep before the eyes of the public the urgent need of money for Science , and the colossal importance of scientific work for the welfare of the nation .
We are emphatically the Trustees of the Future .
At a time like the overwhelming present , when our existence is at stake , it behoves those of us who cannot actively share in the great upheaval to take stock of our position among the nations of the civilised world .
It is our duty , , without morbid regret for the past , or craven fear of the future , to think of our own aims , and to reflect upon the aims of our adversaries as far as we are able to understand them .
In 1896 the Rumford Medal of the Society was given in duplicate to Prof. Rontgen , and to Dr. Philipp Lenard , Professor of Physics at Heidelberg .
Prof. Rontgen is stated by a Berlin paper not to care to retain his Medal and has given it to the Red Cross .
Dr. Lenard is credited by a German paper with the following savage outburst:\#151 ; " Down , then , with all considerations for England 's so-called culture .
The central nest and supreme academy for all hypocrisy in the world , which is on the Ihames , must be destroyed if the work is to be done thoroughly .
No respect for the tombstones of Shakespeare , Newton , and Faraday !
" The recent manifesto of the German Professors is a monstrous utterance , and in the words of a German paper is a grave symptom of national insanity .
Reading between the lines I think we may see that the signatories lecognise they have been betrayed by facts , and they are forced to make an appeal to theory .
So also we believe they will find their reliance on brute force is doomed to end in failure .
On the other hand , we look beyond the Saciifice of blood and treasure " to the vindication of an idea , the Anniversary Address by Sir W. Crookes .
11\amp ; Establishment of a principle .
The dignified reply of the English scholars to* ohe manifesto of the German intellectuals is confined to a recital of facts .
The united universities of France have addressed to the universities of the neutral nations a noble arid imposing document in which the claims of Germany are answered in a manner beyond all question .
The Eoyal Society is always cosmopolitan in spirit , and we should be unworthy of our heritage could we not , even at this desperate moment , take a dispassionate view of events , and preserve a well-balanced and rational attitude towards our contemporaries of German nationality .
Our senior Honorary Secretary , Sir John Bradford , whose absence we greatly regret , has recently gone to the front as consulting physician to the forces .
We are glad to congratulate him on filling a position of such vital service , and we wish him success in the strenuous work certain to fall to his lot .
The report of our Council gives a full notice of important events of the past year .
But there are some results of investigations to which I call special attention .
The work of Prof. W. H. Brag and his son , W. L. Brag , on the application of X-rays to crystal structure form a splendid " first fruits " of an entirely new field of crystallographic research .
Mr. H. G. T. Moseley has recently studied photographically the X-ray spectra of many of the elements , and he furnishes some very interesting results relating to the connection between the spectrum and the atomic number of the element .
In the Bakerian Lecture on Series Lines in Spark Spectra , Prof. A. Fowler has a direct bearing on the constitution of the atom\#151 ; confirming the theoretical work of Dr. Bohr .
The peculiarities of the series of new lines produced by passing strong discharges through helium tubes containing hydrogen as an impurity led to the search for other series of similar character , and experiments were performed with magnesium , calcium , etc.y in which many new enhanced lines were obtained .
It is interesting to notice that Bohr 's theoretical formulae for hydrogen and helium agree closely with the observed facts ; if his formulae are adopted , the mass of the hydrogen , atom in terms of the electron is 1836 + 12 .
The subject of the constitution of the atom has come into extreme prominence\#151 ; great advances have been made\#151 ; while much light has been thrown on the ultimate structure of matter .
Years ago , during the persistent and systematic fractionation of yttrium , I explained that I had succeeded in separating the atoms of the so-called element into groups ; these groups undoubtedly exhibited different phosphorescent spectra and presumably had different atomic weights\#151 ; although from the chemical point of view all the 116 Anniversary Address by Sir W. Crookes .
groups behaved similarly .
I concluded that , of the lines and bands of the compound spectrum of an element , some are furnished by certain atoms and some by others .
I pointed out that this was not likely to be an isolated case ; that probably in all so-called elements the whole spectrum does not come from all the atoms\#151 ; that different spectral rays come from different atoms , which may be interpreted to mean that there are definite differences in the internal motions of the several groups of which the atoms of a chemical element consist .
I ventured to suggest a possible explanation of these facts , based on the assumption that acting on the original protyle were two forces\#151 ; one of the character of Time , accompanied by a lowering of temperature , while the other , swinging to and fro like a pendulum , and having periodic cycles of ebb and flow , rest and activity , would be intimately connected with the force of electricity .
I arrived at a presentation of the elements on a lemniscate path which seemed to me to throw some light on the question of their genesis .
My researches seemed to show that the persistence of the ultimate character , the eternal self-existence , the fortuitous origin of the chemical elements , could no longer be regarded as satisfactory .
Apparently bodies exist which possess close upon the same atomic weights and combine in definite proportions with other substances and yet exhibit certain minute differences .
For these substances , which are capable of being isolated and identified , I suggested the name " meta-elements .
' ' Thus there appears to me to be a gradation of molecules of different ranks between the atom and the compound\#151 ; and these aggregations of atoms in certain circumstances might well pass for simple elementary bodies .
In recent years the old idea of the ultimate atom as a solid particle , spherical or otherwise , has slowly , almost imperceptibly , given way to the more rational conception of a minute planetary or " Saturnian " system of dazzling complexity ; the conception is many minded , aided here and there by facts that failed to fall in with the old lines of thought .
Among the most prominent men through which the new conception has come to light , we have Kelvin , Stony , Thomson , and , more recently , headed by Sir Ernest Rutherford , a host of vigorous workers in the new science of radio-activity , who have built up a conception of atomic physics often " hard to be understood , but that probably is a move in the right direction .
Sir Ernest Rutherford supposes the atom to be composed of a nuclear positive charge , exceedingly small compared with the sphere of action of the atom , and consisting of a number of unit charges .
Surrounding this nucleus is an external shell in which a number of separate negative electrons are distributed .
Prof. Soddy\#151 ; whose name is closely associated with that of Anniversary Address by Sir W. Crookes .
117 Sir Ernest Rutherford\#151 ; is one of the earliest workers in radio-activity , and has developed a theory of the chemistry of the radio-elements based upon the periodic law and a modified form of lemniscate spiral where the existence of pseudo elements having slightly different atomic weight but identical chemical properties are set out .
These " isotopic " elements occupy the same place in the Periodic Table .
He has thus arrived , by a totally different path from the one I travelled , at the conception of an element having atoms of different weight though chemically identical .
The theory has recently received some confirmation by the analyses of the lead that is found in the minerals pitchblende , thorianite , etc. In my own laboratory a spectroscopic examination of the lead from Cornwall pitchblende has shown traces of thallium not found in pure assay lead ; the unexpected presence of this element may have some bearing on the slightly different atomic weight values recorded for the lead extracted from the radio-minerals .
Without risking a charge of being unduly optimistic I think I may believe we are on the brink of striking developments in our knowledge of the structure of the elusive atom .
Whatever may be the outcome of researches now prosecuted with so much zeal and success , I feel that Addison was speaking with the voice of prophetic Truth when , more than a hundred years ago , he said : " Every atom is a standing miracle and endowed with such qualities as could not be impressed upon it by a Power and a Wisdom less than in finite .
" Medals .
With great pleasure I announce that the Copley Medal this year is awarded to Sir Joseph John Thomson , in recognition of the value of his researches in Physical Science .
His early work in the investigation of electrical phenomena showed he possessed a high degree of experimental ingenuity and skill : by his study of the passage of electricity through gases he elucidated the nature of the negative electrical particles , thus providing an experimental basis for the atomic theories of the nature of electricity .
His treatise on the Conduction of Electricity through Gases won for him a world-wide reputation as a physicist\#151 ; to which subsequent work has added .
To him is due the investigation of the nature of the positive carriers of the electric charge ; his method of positive ray analysis puts a new and extraordinarily valuable tool into the hands of investigators .
His experimental work has always been controlled and confirmed by theoretical considerations ; his work at the Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge has greatly extended our knowledge of the structure and nature of matter .
Anniversary Address by Sir W. Crookes .
The two Royal Medals annually presented by the King have\#151 ; with His Majesty 's approval\#151 ; been assigned to Prof. E. W. Brown and Prof. W. J. goiias .
Prof. E. W. Brown , who now occupies the Chair of Mathematics at Yale University , devoted himself for many years to the study of the movements of the moon : and by incredible industry seven years ago he brought to a successful conclusion his investigation of this fundamentally important practical problem .
He has recently further studied some phenomena which known gravitation causes do not explain , and he has extended his investigations to the General Theory of Orbits .
His work in dynamical astronomy has been remarkably fruitful , and doubtless the years to come will add lustre to his already brilliant reputation .
The Royal Medal\#151 ; awarded to a worker in Biological Science\#151 ; this year has been conferred on Prof. Sollas , who is a pioneer in many fields , and has made many valuable contributions to our knowledge of geology , mineralogy , zoology , and ethnography .
His monograph on Sponges is a classic on the subject .
He has perfected a method of obtaining transverse sections of fossil organisms and thus he has obtained a knowledge of the structure of certain specimens which long have been the subject of dispute .
We hope that Prof. Sollas will have many opportunities of extending his investigations which already have borne so much valuable fruit .
The recipient of the Davy Medal is Prof. W. J. Pope , who has made highly important discoveries in stereo-chemistry , and whose work has thrown much light upon the relation between chemical constitution and crystalline structure .
In collaboration with Profs .
Perkin and Wallach Prof. Pope has published the results of many experiments dealing with the isolation and investigation of optically active compounds of nitrogen , tin , selenium , and sulphur ; he explains their activity by supposing that the radicles in the active compound are tetrahedrally arranged round a central atom as in carbon compounds .
With Prof. Barlow he has more recently been engaged in the establishment of a theory dealing with the connection between crystalline structure and chemical constitution .
He has succeeded in reproducing the crystalline form of most substances of known composition , basing his work upon the assumptions of his theory\#151 ; the experimental and theoretical results show a remarkable concordance .
He has further suggested a theory of " valency volume " which is leading to important developments in the investigation of atomic volumes .
The Rumford Medal is awarded to Lord Rayleigh , in token of the Councirs appreciation of the mathematical and physical work associated with his name .
Lord Rayleigh has , perhaps , done more than any scientific man living to stimulate research ; his work in the sciences of Heat and Radiation Anniversary Address by Sir W. Crookes .
has paved the way for remarkable advances , both theoretical and experimental .
The Copley Medal was given to Lord Rayleigh in 1899 , but the Council wish to offer him some further mark of their recognition of the great value of the research which he still continues to pursue with such conspicuous success .
The Hughes Medal is this year conferred upon Prof. J. S. Townsend , of the University of Oxford , for his work upon molecular conduction in gases , and upon the nature of the disruptive discharge .
Prof. Townsend has made a brilliant investigation of the phenomena of conduction by the ionisation of gases by means of Rontgen and similar radiations .
The study of the diffusion of the ions of gases led to very important conclusions about the size and nature of gaseous ions\#151 ; and the theory of ionisation has been greatly extended by Prof. Townsend 's work .
The Darwin Medal this year is awarded to Prof. Poulton , in recognition of the value of his researches upon the curious phenomena of mimicry and protective resemblance in insects .
Prof. Poulton has brought together a vast number of facts which confirm Darwin 's theory on the subject , and he has recently devised and organised a remarkable series of breeding experiments with species of insects in order further to test his conclusions .

