]\gt ; Influence of Strain on the Proper.ties of Matter .
503 possible to vary , as may be expedient , not merely the amount of work done per diem , but the distribution of the work in time .
In the realisation of this purpose I anticipate great advantage from the use of the work machine , which I have been able to construct for the purpose of my inquiry by the liberality of the British Association .
In conclusion , I would draw attention to tlJe results relating to the influence of work on the discharge of phosphates and sulphates by the urine .
As egards phosphates , it has been shown that no increase occurs unless the exertion is very severe .
As regards sulphates , it manifests itself distinctly in mally cases , the output of sulphates being in general terms proportional to that of nitrogenous material .
It is a matter of that the total sulphur of the food not estimated .
It is known that the percentage of sulphates ' in the food was insignificant as compared with that excreted in the urine , and conssquently almost all of the discharge must have been a product of oxidation .
I , in conclusion , to state that the expenses of the prese1lt research , which have been extremely heavy , have been defrayed by a grant of the British Medical Association .
I desire to express to the Association my most grateful thanks . .
" " The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Physical perties of Matter .
Part Il .
Electrical Conductivity ( continued ) .
The Alteration of the Electrical Conductivity Cobalt , Magnesium , Steel , and Platinum-iridium by tudinal Traction By HERBERT TOMLINSON , B.A. Commu- nicated by W. GRYLLS ADAMS , M.A. , F.R.S. Received October 7 , 1884 .
Read November 20 .
The Alteration of the Electric Resistance of Cobalt produced by Longitudinal Tracbion .
In a previous communication to the Royal Society , pointed out hat whilst with iron the resistance is temporarily increased temporary longitudinal action , that of nickel is decreased , provided the stress be not carried beyond a certain limit , and this , too , in spite of the change of dimensions , namely , increase of length and diminution of diameter , which follow from the stress .
furthel showed that there is a marked resemblance even the table of " " rotational coefficients\ldquo ; drawn up by Professor Hall and that laid down by myself from the results of experiments on the effect of * ' ' Phil. Trans vol. 174 , p. 58 .
, .
168 .
Mr. H. Tomlinson .
Influence of mechanical stress on the specific electrical resistauce of metals comparison of the two tables shows , that with the exception of platinum the metals stand in nearly the same order in both , and that iron and nickel are very conspicuous , the former at the top and the latter at the bottom of both lists .
Mr. Shelford Bidwell has also brought forward* very strong evidence in favour of his assertion , that the " " Hall effect\ldquo ; can be explained by the joint action of mechanical strain and certain " " Peltier eifecfs and has shown that those metaIs in which the " " Hall effect\ldquo ; is positive are rendered by temporary traction thermo-electrically negative to pieces of the same metal unstretched .
It seemed , then , a matter of considerable interest to ascertain whether cobalt would act like iron or nickel as far as the effect of stress on the electrical resistance is concerned , and I endeavoored\mdash ; for some time in vain\mdash ; to obtain either wires or strips of cobalt suitable for the purpose in view .
At len , , through the courtesy of Mr. Wiggin , jun .
, Birmingham , I found myseIf in possession of two strips of cobalt , upon which I was able to make the necessary experiments .
Preliminary Determinahon of of " " Young 's Modulus The length of each strip was cm .
, and the thickness and widlh of one of them , when gauged at ten places at equal distances apart , were as follows:\mdash ; centi rentime r The strip was therefore fairly uniform in section throughout , the mean value of the section as determined by the gauge being square centimotre .
* ' ' Phil. Mag April 1884 , p. 249 .
Mr. Wiggin informed me that he found it impossible to draw wires of cobalt , as the metal was so hard that it destroyed the tools with which it wiis brought into ontacl .
Nessrs .
Johnson and Mgtthey were also good enough to attempt to draw for me wires of cobalt , but they too failed rough a like cause .
Stress on the Properties of Patter .
The density of the metal was determined by of a specific gravity flask , some pieces ving been previously broken off for the purpose , and was found to be at a temperature of C. The same pieces were well annealed , and the density at C. was then found to be .
The mean section as determined the mass of the strip grams , the length , and the density , was for the unannealed metal square centimetre , and this value , agreeing as it did fairly with that got by gauging , was assumed to be correct .
The modulus of longitudinal elasticity was determined by holding the strip in the and rubbing it along its length with a resined glove .
The note obtained was very high in pitch , but the resuIts of the measurements of the number of vibrations obtained by the use of the siren agreed very well with each other .
* Experiment The lower double octave obtained by rnbbing the strip longitudinally was taken on a monochord ; the siren then raised to the pitch of the monochord , and the number of vibrations counted for two minutes at a time .
umber oibrations r In this experiment the monochord was retuned twice , and it will be observed that the mean value does not differ from any of those forming it by so much as per cent. From hese last observations the value of\ldquo ; Young 's modulus\ldquo ; for the unannealed cobalt was ascertained to bc grams per square centimetre .
The same strip was then well annealed , and three results , equally as concordant as the last , were obtained when the strip was thrown into longitudinal vibrations .
The value of ' ' Young 's modulus\ldquo ; of the metal in the annealed condition was grams per square centimetre .
Arrangement of the Cobalt Strips for Observation on th , Alteration of Resistance produced Longitndinal Traction .
The two strips ( see fig. 1 ) in the first instnnce in the unnealed con* I have again to thank Mr. Furse , of King 's College , for his .
XXXIX . .
H. Tomlinson .
The of dition , passing through two apertures in a table , were sccured at their upper extremities to two clamps , , and the lower extremity of the one to be stretched was fastened to the clamp , over which passed the double hook , connected with a stout lever of hard wood .
scale-pan weighing 2 kilos .
was suspended at the end of the lever , and by loading and unloading this very carefnlly the strip was subjecr to any required alteration of stress .
Short pieces of insulated copper wire were soldered to each strip at , and the iunction , , of these pieces was united with one terminal of the anometer .
Two other pairs of similar wires were soldered at , and one of each pair was connected as usual with resistanoe coils , and the other with one pole of a single Leclanche cell .
The two sets of resistance coils , which in this case were about 10 ohms each , were united by a platinumiridium wire traversed by a sliding-piece connected with the other terminal of the galvanometer .
The mode of experimenting was precisely the same , and the same precautions were taken as in the earlier experiments .
* When the strip had been sufficiently tested in the unannealed condition it was well annealed , and in this new condition again experimented on ; but whereas before the stress used was not sufficient to cause any permanent elongation , the strip was now permanently lengthened and the permanent alteration of resistance thus caused was measured as well as the temporary alteration .
The following experiment was made on the annealed when stressed for the first time after the annealing .
, p. 45 and p. 54 .
and Strain on the operties of Matter .
Bxperiment II .
esistnnce coils readjusted .
Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of In this experiment the numbers given for the load represent the number of kilograms on the end of the lever , , when multiplied by 4908 , will represent the actual stress on the strip .
After a rest of two days with all the stress off , except that produced by the weight of the lever itself , the resistance had decreased , so that the sliding-piece had to be shifted from 41 divisions to the right of the zero-point to 45 to the left , or through 86 divisions ; so that the total permanent increase of resistance was now represented by 87 divisions instead of 173 divisions .
The strip was now tested again with the following results:\mdash ; Bxperiment III .
signities resistan .
Including the weight of the scale-pan rlhis was nearly equal to a load of 1 kilo .
on the end of the lever .
Stress and Strain on the Properties of Mutter .
20 kilos .
were now put on the lever and taken off again six times in succession .
piece.atin -iridiumdivi.ance intenn otbedec a Remarlcs on Experimenis II and III .
From the third column of Experiment II may be gathered that the resistance of the cobalt decreases up to a certain degree of loading , and khen begins to increase .
The maximum decrease becomes less and less , at first rapidly , and then more slowly as the permanent strain due to the loading becomes greater and greater until a load of 18 kilos .
* had been employed .
The point of loading at which the maximum decrease occurs becomes higher and higher , gradually increasing from 8 kilos .
to about 13 kilos .
This does not include the stress due to the weight of the lever . .
H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of The sixth column shows that the temporary alteration of resistance is of the nature of a decrease , but the decrease becomes less and lesa as the permanent strain increases , at first , and afterwards more slowly , until the load of 18 kilos .
has produced its permanent effect .
Moreover , we learn from this that when a load of 12 kilos .
had been employed the temporary effect per kilogram is always greater for the highest load than for the smaller ones , so that for the loads 16 , 18 , and 20 kilos .
, when employed for the first time , we get about twice the temporary decrease per kilogram which is obtained with the loads 2 and 4 kilos .
Experiment , however , teaches us that ultimately , when all the loads have been applied a great number of times , the temporary is proportional to the in the case of the loads 4 , 8 , 12 , 16 , and 20 kilos .
, nor is there any sign , aa was the case with nickel , that the decrease of resistance would ultimately } ) changed to increase when the stress was increased beyond a certain limit .
greatest total stress on the strip , including that caused by the weight of the lever itself , was 1860 kilos .
per square centimetre , whereas with nickel the point of loading where the above-mentioned limit was reached , was about 1500 kilos .
per square centimetre .
* It would seem probable that there is a limiting stress beyond which , as in nickel , the resisbance begins to increase with the load , but it is evident from what has been said that this limiting stress is much higher for cobalt than nickel .
From the last values recol'ded in the sixth column of Experiment III it was calculated that the decrease of resistance per unit produced by a stress of 1 gram per square centimetre at the temperature of O. is .
The ratio of the decrease of resistance per unit to the increase of length per unit is , and , if we :ssume the ratio of lateral contraction to linear ] ongation to be , the ratio of the decrease of specitic resistance per unit to the increase of length per unit of the stress is .
All the values just given are much less than the corresponding ones in the case of nickel .
With the cobalt in the unannealed state temporary fraction also produced decrease of resistance , but , as might be expected from what has been said above with reference to the effect of permanent strain , the amount of decrease per unit was less than with the annealed metal .
The decrease of resistance per unit produced by a stress of , p. 60 , where the stresses given should be increased by that caused by the weight of the scale-pan if the total stress on the wire is , as in this case , required .
: , where is the resistance and is the decrease of resistance which results when the length , , is increased to otice the similarity in this respect between cobalt and nickel .
Stress and Strain on the Properties ltatter .
1 gram per square centimetre was for the unannealed cobalt .
The ratio of the decrease of resistance per unit to the increase of length per unit is , and the corresponding ratio in the case of specific resistance is Not only is cobalt remarkable for having , like nickel , its resistance decreased by longitudinaI traction , in spite of the increase of length and diminution of section which is caused by the stress , but it also presents a peculiarity not seen in nickel or indeed in any of the other metals hitherto examined , namely , the extreme persistence with which the same load when applied fain and again continues to produce permanent increase of resistance .
With few metals is this persistence anything like so noticeable with such stresses per square centimetre as have been here employed , for we may observe from the last two expel.iments that though a load of 22 kilos .
had been twice used on the lever , and afterwards a long rest iven to strip , 20 kilos .
, after having been put on and taken off fifteen times , still continued to produce permanent ease of resistance .
* Even 16 kilos .
continued to produce a permanent effect , so that it would be only after a very large number of loadings and unloadings that the increase of resistance 011 taking off the load would be equal to the decrease of resistance on putting on the load .
The permanent increase of resistance caused by the above-mentioned also was greater the longer the time during which the stress was ained .
The Effect of Pernlanent Longitudinal tension on the Resistance of We have seen that cobalt behaves like nickel as far as the effect on the specific resistance of temporary long.itudinal stress is concerned , and that both and are decreased in specific resistance by moderate longitudinal strain .
This it appears is the case with cohalt also .
The distance between the points where the copper wircs at upper and lower extremities of the cobalt strip wel.e soldered : was before stretching cm .
and after the stretching 50 cm , The specific resistance befors the stretching was ) after the stretching , so that there was a ecrease specific resistance of per cent. for a permanent lengthening per cent. The permanent dec.rease of specific resistance fperuni{ divided by the permanent increase of lcngth per unit , is or ror , for cobalt , and for nickel ; so that the permanen *This was afterwards found to be the case when the load had been put and taken off some fifteen times more .
This " " running down\ldquo ; is also explained with other metals , but not to the sam extent , as regards persistency such ccmparatively small stresses per squar centimetre . .
cit. , p. 100 . .
H. Tomlinson .
The lnfluence of decrease of specific resistance as well as the temporary decrease is greater with nickel than with cobalt .
The liiffect of Longitudinal of Longitudinal Magnetisation on the Thermo-electric Properties of Cobalt .
It will be seen that contrary to the expectation of myself , who had egard to the relationship which ntly exists between the " " rotational coefficient\ldquo ; of Hall and the alteration of specific resistance caused by traction , cobalt behaves like nickel and not like iron .
I now , therefore , rned to examine the effect of traction on the thermo-electric properties of the metal , for the pnrpose of ascertaining whether the strip would act in respect to these properties like iron or nickel .
According to Bidwell* cobalt acts like iron , but it appears that this experimenter did not subject his bar of cobalt to traction but to torsion , and finding that copper unde torsion behaved similarly to copper under longitudinal traction , assumed that cobalt would do so likewise .
The above-mentioned assumption is hardly , I think , justifiable , and the following experiments show that cobalt is altered by traction in a manner similar to nickel , provided the metals are not at the same time under the influence of any magnetising stress .
The two strips of cohalt in the unannealed co1ldition were clamped together at their centres , the clamp projecting to a distance of about 3 inches from and at right angles to the strips .
One of the strips couId be stretched as before by means of the lever , and insulated oopper wire soldered near the lower extremities of the two strips served to connect them wibh the alvanometer .
The clamp was then heated at the extremity furthest away from the strips , and the heat conducted along the clamp to the strips was such that in a short time a temperature , as judged roughly by the touch of about C. , was attained , stress of moderate amount was then put upon the lever , and this caused a current from stretched to unstretched through the heated junction : consequently stretched cobalt is thermo-electrically positive to unstretched cobalt .
As soon as the needle of the galvano- meter was fairly steady , the stress was removed and a deflection in the opposite direction ensued .
The temporary stretching and unstretching were repeated several times , but always with the same result as regards the direction of the deflection .
The unannealed cohalt therefore under mechanical stress behaves thermo-electrically like nickel .
* ' Phil. Mag April 1884 , p. 261 .
In this riment the strips were under the influence of the 's vertical magnetic stress , but this last is so much smaUer than that due to the helix , that I have not deemed it necessary to take it into accolmt .
Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
Bxperiment The strips were now dismounted and the same one as had been used before was placed iu the axis of a magnetising helix , *especially designed to prevent the heat of the helix from reaching the metal to be magnetised .
The two ends of the , which projected about 8 inches either end of the helix , were connected with the galvanometer , and the clamp before used was now at one end of the helix and just outside .
The temperature was raised to about C. , and as soon as the galvanomster needle had become fairly steady the helix was excited by a single Leclanche cell .
A deflection of the galvanometer needle once indicated a current from unmagnetised cobalt to magnetised cobaIt through the hot junction , and proved that longimagnetised cobalt is negative to unmagnetised cobalt .
The unannealed cobalt , therefore , under magnetic stress , behaves thermoelectrically in a manner similar to iron .
The helix in this experiment was too far from the galvanometer to affect the latter directly , and a reversal of the magnetising current produced a thermo-electric current in the same direction as before .
The magnetising force was in this case equal to in absolute units , where expresses the magnetising current in absolute units .
The electromotive force of the cell was volts very nearly , and the resistance in circuit ohms , consequently the value of would be absolute units , and the magnetising force absolute units .
This last result has an important bearing on the question whether Bidwell 's explanation of Hall 's phenomenon is correct , because , though unmagnetised cobalt is certainly rendered thermo-electrically positive by longitudinal mechanical stress , the case may be different when the metal is magnetised , as in Hall 's experiment .
Nor indeed would it be safe to assume , without further experiment , that mechanical stress will produce the same effect either in nature or amount on the electrical resistanceS or on the thermo-electric properties of magnetised iron , nickel , and cobalt , as it does on the same metals when not under the influence of magnetic stress .
Experiment The strip of cobalt used in Experiments Iy and having been annealed , was tested as before for the effect of mechanical stress on * For a description of this helix , as " " the coil see loc. , p. 136 .
One of the more recent kind , and which a fairly constant curl.ent .
See Sir W. Thomson 's paper on .
' The Effects of Stress on the Magnetisation of Iron , Nickel , and Cobalt " " Phil. Trans vol. 170 , 1879 .
S I may not , therefore , be right in my conjecture ( see " " Note on Hall 's Phenomenon " " Phil. Mag May 1884 , p. 402 ) that in all probability the " " Hall effect\ldquo ; on nickel will be diminished by raising the temperature to C. .
H. Tomlinson .
Th Influence of the thermo-electric properties of the metal .
The heating was , however , in this case accomplished by means of an air-chamber , consist- ing of two concentric brass cylinders with a layer of water between them .
The strips placed , clamped together at their centres , in the axis of the chamber , the two extremities of each projecting about 8 inches from , her end of the clJamber ; a thermometer was also placed with ils bulb in the centre of the latter , and the temperature in the first instance raised to C. When the needle the galvanometer was at , a load of 8 kilos .
was put on the level , and after a space of 2 minutes had elapsed a deflection of three divisions of the scale resulted .
This deflection again showed the stressed metal to be positive to the etched , and on the removal of the load the needle c , am back again to nearly its old position .
Trials were made with several loads from 2 to 8 kilos .
, and always with t , he same result as regards the nature of the effect ; the mean value of the deflecion per kilo .
bein as nearly as could be judged division of the scale .
The electromotive force developed by the highest load was found to be mlcrovo 429 microvoIt and the electromot , iv force which would be produced by a stress of 1 gram per square centimetl.e would be microvolts , the temperature of one being at 100 C. and of the other about C. The chamber was next permitted to cool down , first to C. , and afterwards to C. , and at both these tures the effect of the was fonnd to be in the same direction as before , and though no attempt was made to measure the actual deflection , this was evidently diminished with the temperature .
Finally , it should be added that both in this experiment and in the two previous ones , the extremities of the strips and the clamps at the ends of the stressed strip were all well shielded from the source of heat .
Tt would seem then that we have good reason for concluding that for any temperature between C. and C. , cobalt , whether in the annealed or unannealed condition , is rendered by traction thermo-electrically positive to unstretched cobalt .
* The Effect of Excessive Loading on the Electrical stance of Hard Piano-steel .
I have already shown that for moderate amounts of the effect on the electrical resistance of piano-steel is of the same as the effect on iron , but , as according to Mr. H. Johnson , the * As I thought that want of purity might influence the result , Mr. J. M. Thomson of King 's College kindly made an analysis of two small pieces of the meta , an 1 and informed me that they contained more than 98 per cent. of cobait , no trace of nlcke ' tLnd barely a trace of iron .
" " The Electrician May 17th , 1884 .
Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
specific l.esistance of hard piano-steel wire is temporarily diminished by very considerable longitudinal traction , I arranged a .
of hard piano-steel wires in the same manner as the nickel wires , of which already mention has been made , and proceeded to test one of them in the usual manner , expecting that whilst moderate stress would increase the specihc resistance , excessive stress would diminish it .
The loading was accomplished by means of the lever before used , the results are given below:\mdash ; It will be seen that the increase of resistance produced by the loading is proportional to the load throughout .
The diameter of the wire was cm .
, and the greatest total load on the wire was equal to 102 kilos .
, or 2 cwts .
The greatest stress per square centimetre was above , 19,000 kilos .
, and only a little short of the breaking stress. .
From the above results was deduced that the increase of resistance per unit produced by a stress of 1 gram per square centimetre , was , and this number so nearly agrees with those obtained for the previously used specimens of piano-steel , that it was not considered to determine the value of " " Yotlng 's modulus\ldquo ; and of the simple idity , in order to prove that , as in soft iron , specific resistance is increased , not only when moderate stresses employed but also for stresses close to the breaking This last experiment , however , confirms the fact tioned in an rlier paper , that the electrical resistance of steel is less increased thau that of iron , not only per gram stress on the square centimetre , but also per unit increase of length .
* This is the load due to the weight of the lever itself .
I afterwards found that Mr. Johnson must have miscalculated the of temporary lengthening produced by the load used by him , as he gives it as 3 cent. , though the wire was not loaded beyond the of elasticity .
This last is an impossible result , as the greatest tensile strength of ally does not admit of a temporary elongation of more than per cent. without breaking .
" " Proc. lloy .
Soc vol. 26 , p. 401 . .
H. Tomlinson .
The Influenee of The EffecX of Longitudinal Tr.action on the Resistance of Magnes Cobalt and nickel have been found to decrease in resistance when subjected to moderate longitudinal traction , nor does it appear*that this abnormal behaviour is in any way connected with the magnetic properties of these metals .
Nevertheless , it seemed desirable to find , if possible , some metal which , possessing much feebler magnetic properties , would exhibit similar conduct .
Now , judging from the apparent relationship between the alteration of specific resistance produced by traction and the " " Hall effect that magnesium might be found to be such a metal , I obtained from Messrs. Matthey and Johnson about 60 feet of magnesium wire , and examined it with the above-mentioned object in view .
of the Value of\ldquo ; Young 's Modulus ?
, Density , ' ' Young 's modulus " " was , in the first instance , determined by the method of longitudinal vibrations , a length of 550 cm .
being under examination .
The wire was stretched on a long wooden box , and precautions taken which will be fully described in a future communication to the Society , to avoid certain sources of error incidental to this method .
The resuIts obtained with the siren were quite as accordant with each other as those got with the cobalt strip , and from these and the value of density obtained in the manner presently to be described , was deduced a value of " " Young 's modulus\ldquo ; of grams per square celltimetre .
simple rigidity of the wire was determined by the method of torsional vibrations in the manner described in a former portion of this memoir , and proved to be grams per square centimetre .
Some little difficulty was experienced in finding the density of the magnesium , as when the was immersed in water a very large number of minute bubbles of gas\mdash ; evidently a consequence of chemical action \mdash ; made the apparent mass in ater from 10 to 20 per cent. less than it ought to have been .
Most of these bubbles could be shaken ofl by merely moving the wire twice or thrice backwards and forwards through the water , but in a very few seconds they collected again and rendered it evident that no reliable determination of the density could be obtained in this way .
As there was not at hand amy hquid which might be suitably used in place of the water , the density was ascertained from the length , diameter , and mass of three separate lengths of the wire .
The diameter of each of these pieces was mea* ' ' .
Trans vol. 174 , 1883 , pp. 61 , 62 .
, .
24 .
Stress and Strain on the Properties of Jfatter .
snred at ten differeDt places equidistant from each other by a gauge graduated to of a millimetre , and capable of measnring by estimation to of a millimetre .
The accuracy of the gauge had been repeatedly tested on previous occasions , and old be depended upon at least to of the diameter of the wire : nor lvould any error of consequence be introduced in the determinations of the length or mass .
The following were the results:\mdash ; The probable error in the determination of the density in this way would therefore appear to be per cent. But values of " " Young 's modulus\ldquo ; obtained by the method of longitudinal vibrations are apt to be slightly too high in the case of wires in consequence of slight yielding of the supports at , either end of the wire .
* It was therefore deemed advisable to employ also the static method , and accordlngly a pair of wires were suspended and examined in the manner already described in Part I of this memoir , and with the same precautions to avoid error .
" " Young 's modulus\ldquo ; as thus obtained proved to be grams per square centimetre .
It was impossible , however , in this instance to have any but a comparatively small load permanently on the wire , and in such a case the result is apt to be too low to a slight extent .
We may , I think , then , find a very near approach to the true value by taking the mean between the values got by the two methods : this mean is grams per square centimetre , and is , I should say , certainly less than 1 per cent. in error .
From " " Young 's modulus\ldquo ; and the simple rigidity the ratio of lateral contraction to longitudinal extension can be calculated ; this ratio would be\mdash ; might be thought that any kind of yielding would depress the pitch of the wire , but the mathematical investigalions of Lord Rayleigh as given in his " " Theory of Sound vol. , p. 161 , show that with transverse vibr tions there would be in the case before us an increase of pitch .
Rayleigh 's investigations equally apply , as far as the point in question is concerned , to longitudinal vibrations .
, pp. 2-4 inclusive .
Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of or The bulk-modulus can also be determined from " " Young 's modulus\ldquo ; and this Iast ratio , and is\mdash ; grams per square centimetre .
Now it has been shown in a recent communication*to the Royal Society tlJat the bulk-modulus can be calculated from the thermal capacity per unit volume by the formula\mdash ; where is tho bulk-modulus and the mean thermal capacity per unit volnme between C. and 10 C. According to Regnault the thermal capacity per unit mass is , and according to Kopp it is The mean of these two numbers is , and the thermal capacity per unit volume is therefore , or .
From the above formula , therefore , we obtain\mdash ; This number does not differ from that obtained by observation by so much as 2 per cent. , and considering the difficulties which are in the way of getting correct values of the bulk-modulus , we may regard the agreement of the observed and calculated values of as suffi- ciently Arrangement of the Magnesium Wire for Observations on tloe Alteration of Resistance produced by Longitudinal Trachon .
Experiment A pair of magnesium wires were arranged for an examination of the effec.t of longitudinal traction on the electrical resistance of the metal in the same manner as the nickel wire before mentioned , but , as it was desirable to have the permanent load as light as possible in order to avoid trespassing beyond the ]imits of elasticity , the scale-pan was dispensed with and the weights were suspended to a small hook by string so that at the outset the permanent load on the wire only amounted to kilo .
When a sufficient rest had been allowed to * ' Proc. Boy .
Soc No. , 1884 .
Clarke 's " " Constants of Nature Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collection , No. 276 , p. 15 .
, p. 58 , fig. 10 .
Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
enable the pair of wires to attain a constant resistance-ratio , various amounts of temporary stress from to 2 kilos .
wel.e employed .
The esults are given below:\mdash ; esistance p The wire completely recovered itself when each of the temporary loads was removed , and yet it will be noticed that the alteration of resistance per kilo .
varies largely the load , so much so , indeed , that with a temporary load of 2 kilos .
the temporary alteration per kilo .
, which is of the nature of increase on loading , was nearly double that when only kilo .
was employed for the temporary load .
This marked increase of alteration of resistance per kilo .
with the increase of the temporary load does not depend upon the amount of permanent stress , as we obtain the same alteration for kilo .
when the permanent load is kilo .
as we do when the permanent load is kilos .
, but at the same time it should be observed that with the permanent load of 2 kilos .
the first effect both of loading and unloading with kilo .
was considerably than that which took place after three loadings and unloadings with the kilo .
S The resuIts given above undoubtedly point to imperfect elasticity due to the rotation of the molecuIes about their axes , for though the wire recovered its original resistance on the removal of the load , this is evidently due to the slight shock caused by unloading Exper.imentIX .
In order to examine more fully the relationship which might exist between the alteration of resistance and the alteration of length caused by temporary traction , the wire used in determining the value * Weight of clamp , hook , \amp ; c. , included .
The means of ten closely according trials with each load .
More than twice as great .
S After this the effect remained constant .
With some metals a marvellously small suffices to make the molecules spring back to their original position after they have been pel.manently deflected from their positions by mechanical or other stress .
Mr H. .
Tomlinson .
The Influence of of " " 's modulus ' ' by the method of static extension was tested with nearly the same loads , both temporary and permanent , as in the Iast experiment , with the oWing results:\mdash ; The numbers given in the third column are the means of several trials and , with the exception of the last two , require a slight correction , inasmuch as it was evidently impossible with such a small permanent load as kiJo .
to obtain a sufficiently straight wire .
* The correc , however , can be easily applied , for we see that when the permanent load is equal to kilos .
a temporary load of kilo .
produces precisely the same temporary elongation as when the per manent load is kilos .
, or , in other words , kilos .
must have sufficed to make wire straight .
Thus with a permanent load of kilo .
apparent increase of length caused by the mere straightening of the wire is , or when kilo .
is the temporary load , and will be , or when the temporary load is either 1 kilo .
orgreater than 1 kilo .
Making the above corrections , and placing side by side the alteration of length and the alteration of resistance produced by each additional kilo .
, obtain as follows : We may notice that though , in consequence of imperfect elasticity , * A matter of no importance in the electrical experiments .
The recovery of length was as complete as the recovery of resistance had been on the removal of the stress , and this is no doubt due to the cauBe previously mentioned .
Stress and Strain on the operties of Matter .
the temporary aIteration of length increases in greater proportion than the load , this increase of effect is very much less than is the case when the alteration of resistance is concerned , the difference between the first and last numbers of the third column being only 31 per cent. as compared with the 170 per cent. difference between the first and last numbers of the second column .
It has been proved that longitudinal traction on the whole causes increase of resistance , but this increase is less than can be accounted for by mere change of dimeusions , provided that the temporary stress used be sufficiently small .
In the present instance it may be assnmed that for any temporary bress kilo .
we shall barely enter into the region where " " Hooke 's law\ldquo ; no longer holds good , * and that up this limit of loading the increase of resistance and of length will , within the ]imits of errors of observation , be proportional the load , since , were it otherwise , there could not be the accordance which there is between the value of " " Young 's modulus\ldquo ; as determined by the statical and dynamical methods .
If , then , we take divisions of the platinum-iridium wire to represent the temporary increase of resistance produced by a load of kilo .
, we gather that the increase of resistance due to a stress of 1 gram per square centimetre is per unib .
In calculating the alteration of resistance per unit , resulting from increase of length , we must take the value of ' ' Young 's modulus\ldquo ; obtained by using the statical method , for the alteration of resistance is necessarily determined by this method .
If we do so we find that the ratio of the increase of resistance per unit to the increase of length per unit is .
The mere change of dimensions , however , would cause an increase of resistance of 125 , where is the ratio of lateral contraction to longitudinal extension , and may be taken as equaI to ; so that on the whole we have a decrease of the specific resistance per unit , equal , or .
With aluminium also it has been shown that there is a decrease of specific resistance per unit ; but .this of small amount , namely , for the unannealed and for the annealed metal .
We may say , then , that though magnesium does not agree with nickel and cobalt in having its resistance decreased\mdash ; in spite of change of \mdash ; it does with these metals and with aluminium in having its specific resistance decreased by longitudinal traction of small amount .
The question next arises , shall we , passing the limit of temporary stress up to which ' ' Hooke 's law\ldquo ; holds good , eventuaIly find the decrease of specific resistance changed into increase when the tem* See , pp. 12 , 13 .
The temporary elongation produced by kilo .
, namely , half-millimetres , was employed in calculating the former of two lues .
, p. 52 .
XXXIX .
522 Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of porary stress } comparatively large P The answer must be in tho affirmative , for , as we have seen , the alteration of resistance ncreases with the load much more largely than the alteration of length : this is shown in the next table .
Table I. Limits.videdase o It would appear , then , at first sjght , magnesium and nickel behave in a somewhat similar manner as regards the effect of stress on their specific ical resistance , for with nickel decrease of resistance is to increase when the stress has passed a certain limit .
Closer examination , however , does not justify this view , for with nickel the change from decrease to increase is conditioned by the amount of the permanent load , so that if say 6 kilos .
bs the stress , and we maintain this stress permanently , an additional kilo .
wiJl always produce increase of resistance , though this load of 1 kilo .
be taken off and put on any number of times , whilst with magnes um , if we regard 2 kilos .
as the limiting stress , and allow this load to remain on , an additional kilo .
will only produce a temporar } increase or a temporary decrease of specific resistance when put on and taken off respectively for the first time .
The Alteraiion of the stance of -iridium duced by Traction .
Platinum-iridium plays such an important part in the construction of standards of length and of electrical resistance , that having a length of wire made of the alloy sufficient for my purpose , I resolved to test its elasticity , and the change of electrical resistance ue due to stress .
Preliminary Determination of the of\ldquo ; Young 's Modulus Rigidity , The was specially prepared for me Messrs. Johnson and Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
Matthey , and an analysis made by them of a similar specimen , not , however , drawn into wire , yielded the results given below .
* The density at C. , calculated from this analysis , was , and according to MM .
Deville and Mascart the coefficient of thermal expansion between C. and C. is As it was not considered advisable to bend the wire so as to form it into a coil suitable for finding the density in the ordinary way , the latter was calculated from the mass , length , and diameter .
The length of the wire was cm .
, the mass grams , and the diameter , as measured by the gauge at seven equidistant places , was as follo ws : \mdash ; From these data was deduced a density at of , which value , considering the drawing to which the metal had been subjected , aglees very well with that calculated from the above analysis .
The value of ' ' Young 's modulus\ldquo ; was first determined by the static method im my usual way , and proved to be grams per square centimetre , and though the length of the wire operated upon was inconveniently small , the different trials agree very well with each other .
The modulus was next determined by the method of longitudinal vibrations , the wire , which was sufficiently stout and rigid * ' Nature August 7 , 1879 , p. 343 .
Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of for the purpose , being held by the fingex and thumb in the centre , and rubbed with a resined glove .
When rubbed , the wire yielded sometimes one note , and sometimes another about a semitone lower in pitch .
Both these notes were fairly clear , and from the higher of the two a value for the modulus was deduced of per square centimetre , whilst from the lower was obtained a which ithin the limits of error of ion was exactly equal to that by the static method ; so that we may regard grama per square centimetre as representing with fair accuracy*the value of " " Young 's modulus There was no difficulty in finding the value of the simple rigidity in the usual way , and this proved to be grams per square centimetre .
From the above data the ratio of lateral contraction to longitudinal extension was calculated to be .
The values of " " Young 's modulus\ldquo ; and of bhe simple rigidity are both high , and it is very remarkable that the 10 per cent. of iridium added to the platinum should have raised the former value more than 40 per cent. Arrangement of the Platinum-irilium for Observations on the Alteration of Resistance produced by Longitudinal Traction .
Experiment We will now turn to the experiments on the alteraion of resistance produced by longitudinal traction experiments , which it will be seen resulted in a complete surprise in more ways than one .
In the first trials the wire was arranged in exactly the same manner as the steel and magnesium wires had been , and the lever used for applying the stress , but a German-silver wire was employed as the compal'lsonwire .
With only a permanent stress , due to the weight of the level , .
2 kilos .
put on or taken off the lever caused an alteration of resistance which required to be balanced by moving the sliding-piecs divisions , and when there lvas a permanent stress equivalent in all to 3 kilos .
ou the end of the lever , an additional kilo .
on or caused an alteration represented by divisions , or almost exactly half the number of divisions which were required with twice the temporary load .
Hence it was calculated that a stress of 1 gram per square centimetre produced an increase of resistance per unit of .
The increase of resistance per unit divided by increase of ]ength per unit was , and the increase of per unit was .
These results were very unexpected , inasmuch as .
all the other alloys which have been examined , namely , brass , Germansilver , and platinum-silver are altered by stress in their electrical resistance far less than the pure metals of which they are composed , .
*This value old seem to be correct within at least 2 per cent. Stp.ess Strain on the Properties of Matte 521- ) whereas here the increase of specific resistance produced by lractio1t is nearly three times as great as with iron , which heads the list of those metaIs which show increase of resistance on loading .
Experiment XI .
Under the above-mentioned circums , it was deemed to be advisable to test the platinum-iridium in another manner .
In this aease , instead of using German-silver as the comparison-wire , the following arrangement was made : To the centre of the wire was firmly fixed a brass clamp , which rested on a stout table , and was connected with one terminal of the galvanometer , the other terminal as usual connected with the sliding-piece .
The lower half of the wire , which passed through a mall hole in the table , was stretched by means of the lever , whilst the upper half remained unstretched .
Near the extremities of both halves were fixed other clamps , provided with terminal screws , which in each case were united as usual with one pole of a battery , and with a set of resisbance coils joined to sach other by the platinum-iridium wire traversed by the sliding-piece .
With this arrangement it will be seen that the upper half of the wire served as a comparison-wire to the lower half .
The resuIts of this experiment were in fair accord- ance with those of the previous one , and still showed platinumiridinm to bs considerab ] more increased in resistance by traction than any of the other metals .
Bxperiment XII .
In order to remove any further doubt about clamping not being sufficient to make proper connexion between the various parts of the " " bridge a third experiment was tried , in which the platinumiridium wire , with a German-silver wire as a comparison-wire , were arranged as in Experiment X , but now all connexions with the wire be stretched wsre well soldered , and a long series of trials , extending over three days , was made with a view to not on confirm the resuIts of Experiments X and XI , but also to bring out any peculiarities which might exist .
The main points to which it is well to call attention are shown in the last two series of trials given below , in which the permanent stress was that due to the weight of the lever itseIf .
It is noteworthy here that the resistance at first increases in greater proportion than the load , but when a certain limit of stress has been reached the ratio of the increase of resistance to the load producing it begins to diminish , until finally the last kilogram on produces the same alteration of resistance as the first .
A similar state of things was perceived with wires made of other metals in the experiments Mr. H. Tomlinson .
Influence of resistance iterms oheTemporary ateration oSecond seriesa otion described in the previous portions of this memoir , , moreover , there a like change in the elasbicit .
but with platinum-iridium the effect , as far as alteration of the resistance is concerned , is more marked than is the case with other metale .
Equally noteworthy is it that at the third kilogram there is a sudden increase in the temporary aIteration of resistance produced by the load , and a like phenomenon is plainly discernible in the above-mentioned previous experiments .
Moreover , the stress which produces this sudden increase is certainly not far from the stress which produces the first sudden leap in the value of the ratio of the permanent alteration of resistance to the load , when the annealed wire is stretched for the first time ; , more , a careful examination of Experiment shows undoubted evidence of the existence of the same number of critical points where eration is concerned , as there are in the case of permajnent extension .
Finally , it must be added , that if we take the mean effect produced by all the loads on the resistance of the wire , we obtain an increase of resistance which is equal to that already recorded in Experiment X , and therefore we must regard the comparatively large increase of resistance of platinum-iridium caused by traction as a well-established fact , p. 50 , where by taking the alteration of resistance caused by secutive loads of kilos .
each , this can be plainly discerned .
, p. 16 .
Compare Experiments and XXIII , , pp. ) , 82 .
As regards Experiment XXIII , it should be remarked thal more recent observations have shown that there is a critical point at the third kilogram ( Afth kilogram if we include the weight of the scale-pan itself , and that here therefore we must look for the first critical point and not the eighth kilogram ( tenth kilogram including the weight of the scale-pan ) , where is the second critical point .
S , p. This compal.atively large increase of resistance produced by traction is rather against the of platinum-iridium in the construction of standard resistance coils .
Stress and Strain on Properties of Jlatter .
The Bffect of Longitudinal Tracbion on the Th tjrmo-electric of Platinum-iridium .
Bxperiment XIII .
The above-mentioned large increase of resistance resulting from the temporary traction of platinum-iridium , together with the ap- parent relationship between the effect of mechanical stress on the thermo-electric properties of metals , and that on the specific resist , rendered it obable that stress would act on the thermo-electric properties of iron and platinum-iridium similarly as regards nature , but with greater intensity the latter metal than with the former , but here , again , a surprise was meb with , for when the wire was tested in the same manner as the cobalt had been , the unstretched platinum-iridium was found to be positive to the temporarily stretched metal , and therefore the alloy is aflected by stress , thermo-electrically , in a manner similar to nickel .
Thus we see that , though these new experiments would in the case of cobalt and magnesium largely confirm us in our opinion respecting the above-mentioned relationship , it is quite the contrary in the case of platinum-iridium .
In the next table will be found drawn up the results obtained by Hall , Bidwell , and myself .
Hall says of the numbers in the second column : " " I cannot vouch for the quantities within 50 per cent. , but I think I can vouch for the direction of the effect Bearing this statement in mind , and the difficulties which lie in the way of obtaining accurate values for the ratio of contraction to longitudinal extension , which difficuIties will aifect the numbers in the fourth and fifth columns , one cannot help being struck with the fact that with most of the metals the order of the " " rotational coefficients\ldquo ; is the same as that of the alteration of specific resistance caused by traction .
Cobalt and platinum are , however , conspicuous exceptions , but with regard to the former metal it has been already observed , and of course the same observation would apply equally to nickel and iron , that longitudinal traction mighl produce different effects in the magnetised and unmagnetised metals .
The exoeption furnished by platinum cannot be thus accounted for , nor does it seem fair to attribute the discrepancy either to errors of observation or to diflerence in the purity of the specimens examined by Hall aIJd myself respectively .
* In the fifth column is given the difference between the alteration of the specific resistance of lead by traction , and that of the other metals , and , with the exceptions just mentioned , it may be fairly said that , within the errors of *The specimen of platinum used by myself was obtained from Messrs. Johnson and Matthey as chemically pure .
I ought to reulark here that according to Bidwell the " " Hall effect\ldquo ; in aluminum is .
In a lrial inade by my self on the pure specimens of aluminium in Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The lnfluence of Table II .
cDirection observation to which the numbers in this column are liable to be aflected , the signs are here the same as those in the second column .
As regards the relalionship between the alteration of specific resistance by traction and that of the thermo-electric qualities of the metals due to the same cause , it may be seen by comparimg the third and fifth columns , that out of sixteen diflerent metals , pure and alloyed , the signs in the two columns are decidedly the same in eleve1l instances , are decidedly diiferent in three instances , and are dubiously so in two instances .
It has been noticedS that if the density of a substance be denoted by , and A represent the atomic mass , so that the difference between the centres of adjacent molecules be proportional to , say , my possession , the effiect of traction on the thermo.el , ctric properties of the metal seemed to be the same in direction as that given , and for Bidwell is my authority , but the effeot was very slight , and I am not now quite certain whether a less stress than was then applied would not give an opposite result .
sign in this column signifies that the effect is in a direclion the same as that which the conductor itself bearing the rent would follow if free to move across the lines of magnetic force ( see " " Nature Nov. 10 , 1881 , p. 46 ) .
sign in this column signifies that the direction of the thermo.electric current is from unstretched to stretched through the hot junction .
sign in this column signifies increase of resistance .
S .
cit. , p. 32 .
Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
is , with most metals , a constant , where denotes " " Young 's modulus Taking the mean of the values of and of for cobalt in the annealed and unannealed conditions , we have , and .
For magnesium , and In the next table will be found collected together most of those results of the present inquiry which can be expressed by numbers .
It has been suggested with regard to the method of finding the effect of strain on the resistance , that unless the strain was fairly uniform , thermo-electric effect might have to some extent vitiatedthe results .
It will be seen , however , that the strain must have been fairly uniform , and even if there had been considerably more lack of uniformity than actually existed , the small change which can be wrought by stress and strain in the thermo-electric power of any of the metals hitherto used , would preclude the possibility of any appre- ciable vitiation .
Further , in many cases , very different lengths of the same wire were tested and found to yield the same results , which would not have been the case had the strain on the connexions , point also suggested for consideration , introduced error .
Summary .
1 .
The electrical resistance of cobalt , like that of nickel , is temporarily dec eased by temporary longitudinal traction .
Whether the decrease of resistance would be changed to increase , as it is with nickel , by a greater amount of stress , has not yet been ascertained , but should this be the case , the magnitude of the stress per unit area which would sufficefor the purpose , must be much greater with cobalt than with nickel .
2 .
Permanent extension and rolling dimimshes with cobalt as with nickel , the effect of longitudinal traction alluded to in 1 .
3 .
Cobalt is remarkable for the extreme persistence with which the same load , when applied again and again , continues to produce permanent increase of resistance .
4 .
Moderate permanent extension decreases permanently with cobalt as with mckel and iron , the resistance .
5 .
Temporary longitudinal traction renders cobalt temporarily positive as regards its thermo-electrical qualities to cobalt not under traction , provided there is no magnetic stress acting at the same time .
6 .
Temporary longitudinal magnetic stress renders cobalt temporarily negative as regards its thermo-electrical qualities to cobalt not undel stress , provided there is no mechanical stress acting at the same time .
7 .
The effect of temporary longitudinal traction , even when carried to very great excess , is to increase ths resistance of unannealed pianosteel ; and this increase , though less than with iron , both for unit Mr. H. Tomlinson ' The Influence of 5 .
Stress and Strain on the Properties of Matter .
stress per square unit of area and per unit temporary increase of length , is much greater than can be accounted for by changes in the dimensions of the steel .
8 .
The electrical resistance of magnesium is increased by temporary longitudinal traction of moderate amount , but the amount of increase is less than can be accounted for by mere change of dimensions , so that the specific resistance of magnesium , like thab of aluminium , is diminished by the temporary stress .
9 .
When the permanent on the wire is very small , the temporary increase of length , like that of the increase of resistance , increases in larger proportion than the temporary load , but the former increases less rapidly than the latter , so that when the temporary stress exceeds a certain limit the above-mentioned decrease of specific resistance is changed to an increase of specific resistance .
10 .
The values of " " Young 's modulus and the simple rigidity of the alloy , platinum-iridium , are much greater than those calculated from the same values for the components of the alloy .
11 .
The electrical resistance of platinum-iridium , quite uIllike that of platinum-silver , German-silver , and brass , is much more increased by temporary longitudinal traction than that of either of the components of the alloy .
12 .
The increase of resistance mentioned above is much greater than can be accounted for by change of dimensions , so that the increase of specific resistance produced by longitudinal action is considerably greater than is the case with any of those other metals examined whose resistance is increased by longitudinal traction .
13 .
The alteration of the resistance alluded to in 11 at first increases in greater proportion than the load , but when a certain limit of stress has been reached , the ratio of the temporary increase of resistance to the load producing it , begins to diminish , and finally reaches the same value as at first .
A tendency to a similar state of things is seen with other metals , but in none is the phenomenon so pronounced as in platinum-iridium .
14 .
Unstretched platinum-iridium is thermo-electrically positive to the temporarily stretched metal .
15 .
The present investigations , as far as magnesium is concerned , confirm the previous ones in showing an apparent reIationship between the " " Hall effect\ldquo ; and the alteration of the specific resistance produced by mechanical stress .
With regard to cobalt this is not so , at any rate for the metal when not under the influence of magnetic stress .

