226 Dr. W. Marcet on the Function of Respiration at [ June 19 1 Table IY.\#151 ; Slow Breaking of Iron Wire , '036 inch in diameter , at various speeds .
" Bright Annealed Wire .
" Number of experiment .
Kate of adding weight .
Breaking weight in pounds .
Per cent , of elongation on ' original length .
1 1 lb. per 24 hours 47 6-92 2 2 99 99 47 4-79 3 ^ 99 99 46* 6*00 I have to acknowledge the very great assistance rendered to me in the carrying ont of these experiments by Mr. Sinclair Conper , who has not only most faithfully carried ont the work entrusted to his charge , but has in many cases originated and carried out experiments at .
various points of the inquiry .
XXII .
" Note on the paper ( read April 24)* 'A Summary of an Inquiry into the Function of Respiration at Various Altitudes on the Island and Peak of Teneriffe .
' " By William Marcet , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1879 .
In the above-stated communication , after alluding to Dr. Rattray 's observationsf and remarking that I had formerly held the same views as he did , namely , that less carbonic acid was exhaled under increasing temperatures of the sun ; I add , I am now compelled , however , to alter this view , and to conclude that more carbonic acid is formed in the body under a tropical or nearly tropical sun than under temperate latitudes .
Lest I should be considered as ascribing to the sun 's heat a power which so far has not been acknowledged by physiologists , namely , that of increasing the formation of carbonic acid or the combustion in the body , I must beg to explain in a few words how the question now stands .
I shall end by asking leave to suspend any opinion as to the cause of the increase of combustion in the body I observed to take place on the Island of Teneriffe , until more direct experiment has been brought to bear on the subject .
From trustworthy experiments by known authors , heat and light-are found to act differently with respect to the formation of carbonic acid in the animal and human body ; increased heat , as a rule , diminishes the production of this gas , and it is generated in excess under increased light .
# " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxviii , p. 498 .
t " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1870,1871 , 1873 .
1879.1 Various Altitudes on the Island and Peak of 1 eneriffe .
227 The experiments of Edward Smith , * * * S show that more carbonic acid is expired by man in summer than in winter .
Vierordtf finds that a change of temperature , equal to 10 ' F. , alters the amount of carbonic acid expired by 0 0183 per cent. , increasing it to that amount by a fall , and raising it by that figure through an increase .
These observations were made under temperatures ranging between 38 ' *7 and 75''7 F. LetellierJ in 1845 , investigated the action of low and high temperatures on the production of carbonic acid in the animal body .
Animals were made to breathe under a glass receiver during periods varying from half an hour to several hours .
The results are stated in tables which show generally that at the temperature of 32 ' F. , the carbon burnt is twice as great as at 86 ' F. , while at the ordinary temperature intermediate figures are obtained , there being at times an increase and at others a falling off in the amount of carbonic acid formed .
This applied equally to a canary bird , a dove , two mice , and a guinea-pig ; there was , however , a peculiarity with respect to two of the guinea-pigs .
Out of three experimented upon , No. 1 yielded at high and low temperatures 1'457 C02 and 3'006 C02 respectively , or nearly in the proportion of 1 to 2 , while with guinea-pigs Nos. 2 and 3 the proportion of carbonic acid expired was 1 to 15 or 14 , instead of 1 to 2 .
In these cases , however , both animals had been clearly very uncomfortable under the high temperature , and one died .
The survivor 's temperature had risen by 3 ' and that of the other by 5''5 .
But the circumstance perhaps most worthy of notice , as Letellier expresses it , is that heat which the author finds under ordinary circumstances to reduce the formation of carbonic acid in the body , no longer exerted the same influence at night on a dove submitted to experiment .
That bird at the ordinary night temperature would have given 0264 grm. C02 , but on raising the temperature to between 86 ' F. and 104 ' F. , it could not be made to exhale less than 0-284 grm. This observation is very curious , especially considering that light , according to Moleschott , ^shows a marked influence in promoting the formation of carbonic acid and darkness in checking it .
I do not find that this experiment was repeated , still , if even the only one of its kind , the result is remarkable .
We now come to the interesting experiments of MoleschottS made-in 1855 , on the influence of light on the production of carbonic acid in animals .
Frogs were submitted to experiment ; he found that 100 * " Phil. Trans. , " 1859 .
t " Physiologic des Athenens , " 1845 , and " Brit , and Foreign Med. Review , " 1846 .
J Letellier , " Annals de Chimie et de Physique , " Avril , 1845 .
S T. Moleschott , " Wittelhofer Wiener Medicinische Wochenschrift , " 1855 , and " Coxnptes Rendus de l'Acad .
, " t. 41 , 1855 .
228 The Function of Respiration at Various Altitudes .
[ June 19 grms. of these animals emitted in 24 hours in the light 654 mgrms .
carbonic acid , and in darkness 522 , giving the proportion of 1 to 1*25 , the increase of temperature accompanying the light 's influence only amounted to 2''93 C. , so that it could not be considered as having exerted any influence .
In another paper ( same vol. " Count .
Rend .
" ) Moleschott determines the degree of the light used in his .experiments by means of photographic paper exposed for five minutes to the light , and compares the depth of tint obtained with standard colours .
He finds that the carbonic acid produced under a feeble -degree of light is to that exhaled under a very powerful light as 1 : 1*18 , the increase of temperature being only by 1''65 C. He \#166 ; concludes:\#151 ; 1 .
That frogs for similar weights , and in equal periods , exhale from one-twelfth to one-quarter more carbonic acid when breathing .under the influence of light than while in the dark , so long as the temperatures are equal or vary but slightly .
' 2 .
The production of carbonic acid increases in a direct ratio with an increase of the light to which the animals are submitted .
3 .
The influence light exercises towards increasing the amount of carbonic acid emitted , acts partly through the eyes , partly through the skin .
Our knowledge on the influence of light upon the growth of animals , has been extended quite lately by the interesting experiments of Emile Young , of Geneva.* The favourable influence of violet and blue light on the nutrition of animal tissues is clearly demonstrated in that paper .
He cites M. Beclard who , in 1858 , observed that the worms from flies ' eggs acquired growth in violet and blue light much more Rapidly than in white and green light .
Mr. Emile Young , by experimenting on frogs ' eggs , observes that tadpoles become developed much more speedily in violet and blue light than in red and green light , and , moreover , that when grown in white light , and then exposed without receiving any food to the influence of .coloured lights , they die soonest under the violet rays .
He also states he has seen that tadpoles reared under violet light resist starvation longest if placed afterwards under white light .
He concludes that violet light apparently promoted the nutrition of tadpoles more than .any other coloured light .
An allusion is made in his paper to the experiments of General Pleasanton , who found , by ke epiDg young sows under violet and white glass during six months , that those under the violet glass gained , for equal weights , 34 lbs. more than those under white glass .
Experiments on oxen by the same author yielded similar results .
From this mass of experimental work bearing on the influence of heat and light on animal combustion , it may be concluded 1 .
That \#166 ; an increase of temperature causes , or strongly predisposes to a * Emile Young , " Influence des Lumieres Colorees sir le Developpement des Animaux .
" " Archives des Sciences Physiques et Nature lies , " Mars , 1879 .
1879.1 The Function of Respirationat Various Altitudes .
229 falling off in the production of carbonic acid , or lessens combustion in the animal body .
2 .
That increase of light , especially of violet and blue light ( the most actinic rays ) , either causes , or greatly predisposes to the formation of an increase of carbonic acid , thereby promoting animal combustion .
These results do not , it will be observed , apply to the united action of heat and light , but to the influence of heat and light considered separately .
They are , I fear , calculated to give us but little assistance towards a knowledge of the influence of tropical climates on the phenomena of combustion in progress in the healthy human body .
The only direct experiments and observations on that subject , with which I am acquainted , are those of Dr. Rattray , alluded to in my paper .
He finds that the body loses weight in passing from a cold into a tropical climate , and regains it on its returning under a colder latitude ; and , moreover , that in tropical countries the temperature of the body has a distinct tendency to rise slightly above its normal condition in temperate zones .
The increased waste of tissue , and the rise of temperature of the body under a tropical sun , even should it only be trifling , appear to me to show a tendency to increased combustion in the body in a tropical climate ; and the marked excess of carbonic acid I found to be exhaled under the sun of Teneriffe in July and August , over that given out near the Lake of Geneva and in the Alps , is quite in keeping with Dr. Rattray 's observations .
What is the cause of this increased combustion and waste of tissue under a tropical climate ?
Is it the excess of the sun 's heat , is it the increase of the sun 's light , or is it a combined action of both ?
After what has been reported in this note , it must be concluded that the answer is difficult to give , and we must await further experiment to be able to explain this very interesting and important phenomenon .
So far my two communications to the Royal Society , on the influence of altitude upon respiration , have been strictly limited to brief summaries .
I have not yet given the ^history of what has been done on that subject , otherwise I would hate had many important physiological contributions to cite ; these I shall propose to consider on another occasion .
VOL. XXIX .
R

