]\gt ; with aqua regia , by prolonged ignition in a current of chlorine , by treatment with hydrofluoric acid " " Notwithstanding the purill , cation the photographs of the spark between these electrodes still showed very distinctly the Jines of magnesium and iron From these qnotations it will be seen with what great care preparations for these observations on the carbon spectrum were made .
If the poles employed had been those of graphite only , lould have had little hesitation in attributing the lines to the silicon spectrum , but they were replaced by iron and by aluminium .
Even the purest iron wire contains small traces of silicon , and aluminium of the usual commercial quality certainly contains a considerable quantity .
There is , therefore , a suspicion that the carbon spectrum was contaminated by silicon , for a ssries of seven lines so nearly coincident with those in the spectrum of another element of the same class would be very remarkable .
: ' On the Steady Motion of a Hollow Vortex By W. M. HICKS , M.A. , Fellow of .
John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 31 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) The investigation to which this refers forms a continuation of some researches commenced about three ago , but which the author was compelled by other engagements to lay aside .
The general theory of the functions employed was published in the " " Transactions of the Royal Society\ldquo ; ( Part III , 1881 ) , under the title of " " Toroidal Functions These and analogous functions are employed in the present communication .
The interest of investigations of the properties of small vorticss depends on their contexion with the vortex atom theoly of Sir W. Thomson , and it was this and the further connexion with a gravitation theory which induced me originally to undertake the investigation .
So far as I am aware , very little has been done towards a quantitative { iheory of vortices beyond the papel " " On the Vibrations of a Vortex Ring\ldquo ; by Mr. J. J. Thomson , published in the " " Transactions\ldquo ; of this case of a single holfow vortex in an infinite fluid , and to vibrations about the straight axis .
The reason why I have chosen begin with the hollow vortex is given below .
The vortex-atom theory , as presented by Sir W. Thomson , has always seemed to me to laboul under two difficulties .
It does not explain the gravitation of the atoms , nor does it afford , so far as one oan see , any means of explaining the different densities of the various elements .
When the exceedingly small density of the ether compared with what we call ordinary matter is considered , it is clear that the supposition that mabter is composed of vortices of the same density as the ether is surrounded with great difficulties , and we are iven to the conclusion that , if a vortex-ring theory be the true one , cores oortices mesurrounding ether , ormed odenser material thanp y motion .
The theory of gravitation propounded by me in the " " Proceedings of the Cambridge Philosophical Society\ldquo ; *only necessitates ( that the circulation or cyclic constants of the vortex-atoms shall exceed a certain amount which depends directly on the mean pressure and density of the ether .
It needs , therefore , no additional hypothesis to the theory of Sir W. Thomson , but flows ) from it .
This is not the case with the explanation of difference of density here offered , as the simplicity of the theory is to some extent lost having two elementary matters in the place of one .
With these views on the probable constitution of tter I have attempted the problem of determining mathematically the properties of a hollow vortex in an incompressible fluid , lined with an interior layer of a different density the surrounding fluid .
When the density is the same as the surrounding fluid , and the interior hollow vanishes , we have the vortex-ring of the ordinary theory as a particular case .
An extreme case in the opposite direction is when there is no internal layer and no rotational motion in the fluid at all ; merely the cyclic motion about a ring-shaped hollow .
This is the case considered in the present communication .
If we can argue from the case of two spheres , two vortices forced pulsations of the same period will attract one another with a mean force whose principal part depends on the inverse square of the distance , when they are in the same phase , and repel one another according to the same law when in opposite phases .
When the periods are not the same they will altcrnately repel and attract , and the mean effect , so far as the forces depend on the inverse square , wilL * ' Ou the Problem of Pulsating Spheres in a Fluid " " Proc. Camb .
Phil. vols .
and .
xxxv .
alterations of energy .
This , therefore , is an objection to the that gravitation depends directly on the actual pulsation rather than on the residuary effect mentioned above .
The amplitude would naturally vary with the energy , and this would make the attraction between two masses alter with the temperature .
On this point no experiments have been made , and the only apparent argument it that I can think of are Kepler 's laws for the motion of the planets .
If this theory were trne the squares of the periodic times would not vary simply as the cubes of the mean distances , but also as a quantity depending on the mean temperature of each plainet .
But this is no decisive argument against it , as those distances are not tbemselves accurately known ; are , in fact , determined by this law from the earth 's distaince from the sun , determined by other methods .
The vortex-atom theory has its most interesting connexions with the explanation of the spectral lines of the eleme1lts .
These lines , far as they depe on the vibrations of single atoms , might arise from several different kinds of vibrations of the form of the ring .
Thu4 the hollow ring can have\mdash ; ( 1 .
) of thoe circular axis:\mdash ; these musb , as has been shown by Sir W. Thomson , , such that the axis at any time deformed into a helix wound on the surface of a tore , or the ring is twisted .
This mode of vibration for a solid core of the same density as the fluid has been investigated by Mr. J. J. Thomsou in the memoir referred to above .
( 2 .
) Waves running round the surface of the ring , so that any section is crimped into small elevations and depressions , and the ring itseIf is fluted .
( 3 .
) Vibrations of the aperture .
This is really a case of ( 2 ) .
( 4 .
) of hollow , whereby the volume of the hollow altered .
( 5 .
) Swellings of the ring , travelling in one direction or the round the ring , so that the ring seems to be beaded .
Cases ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) , when the ring is moving steadily , are in this paper .
It would be venturesome to draw conclusions in the * ' ' Vortex Statics " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. ]\ldquo ; find analogies even with the ordinary kinetic theory of gases .
For nstance , the vortex-atoms are polar , and therefore do not behave towards one another indifferently for all modes of approach .
Clearly , slso , the temperature of a gas composed of vortex-atoms could not depond on the translatory velocity of square , but would depend some way on the mean energy .
In this connexion it is interesting * notice that the time of vibration of a ring in class ( 2 ) , when at east the ring is moving steadily , is independent of its gepends in fact only on the constants of the ring , the fluid , and the rnverse square root of the number of crimps in a cross-section .
If relations are to be sought between spectral lines they would arise classes 1 , 2 , 5 .
But from Mr. Thomson 's investigations it would ppear that in the case of a solid tore , the time of vibration in lass ( would depend on temperature .
Section I of the paper is devoted to a consideration of the functions employed in the investigation .
In Section II is considered the motion a rigid tore in fluid moving parallel to its straight axis .
In Section III , the problem of the steady motion of a hollow ex is taken up , together with the small vibrations of classes ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) above .
It will be sufficient to give here a short abstract of the resuIts arrived at in Section III .
The cross-section of a ring is hroughout considered as small compared with the aperture , and the sxpressions giving the of the hollow and the velocity of translation are carried to a second lation , the quantity by which the approximation proceeds being the ratio where , are the radii of the mean cross-section and aperture respectively ; when the ring is small this is very approximately .
The condition that the hollow must be a free surface , gives a relation which the volume of the hollow must isfy , which for very small rings reduces to the constancy of the radiup of the hollow .
For a solid ring the corresponding condition is , of course , the constancy of volume .
This makes an essential difference between the two theories .
To a second approximation the velocity of tion is unaltered and is given by , whilst to the second approximation the surface velocity , relative to the hollow itself , is , where is the radius of the ' critical " " circle\mdash ; or the length of a small rings\mdash ; and is the cyclic constant .
For a solid ring , with same notation , .
Tn the steady motion considered , the fluid carried forward with the ring forms a single mass without aperture , even for extremely smtdl cores , though not for infinitely small ones .
For values of there will be no aperture , whilst for less values the fluid carried for .
ward will be ring-shaped .
To a first approximation the energy due to the cyclic motion is the most important , and is the same as for a rigid ring at rest of the same size , it does not depend on the velocity of translation , except in so far as this determines the size of tho aperture ; as entering in this way the principal term varies inversely as the velocity of translation , and thus increases with translatory motion , a result obtained by Sir W. Thomson* from general reasoning .
The terms obtained by the second approximation arise from the translatory motion .
Lastly , the times of vibration in classes ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) above determined , when the ring moves steadily .
In class ( 2 ) , or for fhuted vibrations , the time of vibl'ation for small rings is given very approximately by , being the density , and the pressure of the fluid at a great distance , whilst is the number of in a section .
This is the proof of the tement made above as to the independence of the temperattlre .
In class ( 4 ) the lime of sation is .
As depends on the size of the ring , and therefore on energy , this is not independent of the latter , but varies slowly with it .
The times here given mllst be understood as ] ying to rings moving steadily ; when a ring it changing its size they must be modified .
The investigation of case , and of that in which there is a core of denser matter than surrounding fiuid , I hope shortJy to take up .
III .
' Influence of Pressure on the Temperature ofyolatilization of Solids By WILLIAM RAMSAY , Ph. D. , and SYDNEY YOUNG , B.Sc. Communicated by Sir ANDREW RAMSAY LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 5 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments describod in the paper were dertaken in to ascertain whether solids have definite volatilizing points , * ' ' Vortex Atoms " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. Edin ; " " Phil. Mag ( 4 ) , 34 .

