39 Phosphorescence of Mercury Vapour after Removal of the Exciting Light .
By F. S. Phillips .
( Communicated by the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. Received June 10 , \#151 ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) [ Plate 4 .
] S 1 .
Introduction .
By means of Becquerel 's phosphoroscope the fluorescence of solids has been shown to be persistent , hut up to the present phosphorescence in the case of liquids and gases has not been observed .
That of solids has generally been explained as due to chemical reactions brought about by impurities , while in the case of gases it has been considered that damped vibrations of the rapidity of those connected with light could not be conceived as persisting for a sufficiently long time for the necessary observations to be made .
On the other hand , because of their relative simplicity , gases and vapours have been recognised as being eminently suitable for the study of fluorescence and kindred phenomena .
Wood has applied the phosphoroscope to the case of sodium vapour , with however a negative result .
In the present experiment I have attacked the problem in a different way .
The method used was to pass a beam of the exciting light transversely across a rapidly moving column of mercury vapour , obtained by distillation vacuo .
Then if the fluorescence of the vapour persists the luminosity should be carried along with the stream .
The fluorescence was excited by 2536 light which was obtained by means of a quartz mercury lamp .
Under suitable conditions the vapour could be seen to be still fluorescing , after it had passed a distance of some 18 inches from the point of excitation .
The fluorescence of mercury vapour was first observed by Hartley , * it has been further investigated by Wood.f The latter obtained the spectrum of the fluorescence excited by the light derived from the cadmium spark , and found that it was mainly continuous , but that under certain conditions the 2536 mercury line made its appearance .
Wood has shown in a later paperj that 2535 light produces resonant radiation even when the mercury vapour has only the very small density corresponding to ordinary temperatures .
Under these circumstances the exciting radiation could penetrate a distance * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1905 , vol. 76 , p. 428 .
t ' Phil. Mag. , ' August , 1909 .
J ' Phil. Mag. , ' May , 1912 .
40 Mr. F. S. Phillips .
Phosphorescence of Mercury \#166 ; of a few centimetres into the vapour , without total absorption taking place , but if the temperature was higher and the vapour consequently denser , the radiation could only penetrate a few millimetres .
S 2 .
Preliminary Experiments .
Wood does not appear to have stated that this 2536 light produces visible fluorescence in mercury vapour .
This , however , is the case and it is excited at a much lower pressure than when cadmium light is used .
This latter fact is of great importance , in making possible the present method of showing the phosphorescence .
The fluorescence may be easily shown in a small exhausted quartz bulb containing a globule of mercury .
If the bulb is uniformly heated to some 350 ' C. , and then while cooling a concentrated beam of 2536 light is passed through it , the following interesting changes take place .
At the highest temperature the vapour does not show any appreciable fluorescence , but as the bulb cools , the track of the beam gradually becomes illuminated with a bluish-green light .
The fluorescence may conveniently be divided into two parts , that along the main track of the beam and the portion that extends for about 1 mm. from the place where the beam enters the bulb .
At an early stage in the cooling the former reaches its maximum , and then begins to decrease in intensity .
But the spot of fluorescence at the commencement of the beam does not begin to decrease in brightness until all the rest has disappeared .
It then gradually fades away , and before the bulb reaches the temperature of the room all fluorescence has disappeared .
There are apparently three distinct phenomena excited by 2536 light in mercury vapour:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Resonant radiation , that exists over a long range of pressure from about one thousandth part of a millimetre to about 1 cm .
( 2 ) Ordinary fluorescence , which does not rapidly grow less bright as the beam passes through the vapour ; this exists when the pressure of the mercury vapour is about 1 cm .
; and ( 3 ) Local fluorescence at the point of entrance of the beam , that exists at much lower pressures than the ordinary fluorescence , but not at the very low pressure corresponding to ordinary temperature .
It is this local fluorescence that has been found to be persistent .
A roughly made quartz monochromator was used in conjunction with the mercury lamp , and in order to obtain as much light as possible the slit of the monochromator was arranged so that it was horizontal and parallel to the luminous tube of the lamp .
A Westinghouse Cooper-Hewitt lamp made of fused quartz was used in these experiments .
Wood had previously Vapour after Removal of the Exciting Light .
41 found that when such a lamp became hot it lost its efficiency for producing resonant radiation in about five seconds after starting .
The heating up of the lamp similarly affected the excitation of the persistent fluorescence , but in this case the falling off of intensity was not as rapid as that of the resonant radiation , yet after the lapse of one minute the effect was many times less powerful than at first .
This trouble was entirely overcome by water-cooling the lamp , both the resonant radiation and the fluorescence being as good after an hour 's run as when the lamp was first lit .
The reason for the hot lamp being less effective than the cold one has been pointed out by Wood .
It is illustrated in fig. 1 , Plate 4 .
This shows the spectra of the lamp when hot and when cold .
The 2536 line in the hot lamp is unsymmetrically broadened and shows a magnificent reversal , while the same line in the cold lamp can be obtained as sharp as desired even in the sixth order of a Rowland grating .
The upper spectrum shows the 2536 line as produced by the cooled lamp , while the lower one was obtained with the lamp hot , as it is ordinarily used .
The symmetrical lines in this latter spectrum are ghosts .
Both the resonant radiation and the persistent fluorescence were excited by no mercury lines other than the 2536 line .
Since the resonant radiation disappears as soon as the line broadens and becomes reversed , Wood inferred that it is only stimulated by radiations within very narrow limits of wavelength .
The limits of wave-length that excite the persistent fluorescence are also very narrow , although possibly not quite so restricted as those that produce resonant radiation .
There seems to be some connection between the two effects .
The cooling of the lamp was brought about by allowing water to run freely over both poles , while the tube between had a water-jacket half way round it .
In this way only the portion of the lamp adjacent to the slit of the monochromator was not in contact with a cold surface .
This portion became just sufficiently hot to prevent condensation taking place there .
The spectra in fig. 1 were photographed with a 10-foot Rowland grating , the fourth order being utilised .
The line marked by a dot in the photograph is a third order line at 3391 A.U. S 3 .
Persistence of the Luminosity .
The form of the silica tube used to obtain the moving column of mercury vapour is shown in the diagram .
After a convenient quantity of pure mercury had been placed in it , the tube was exhausted and sealed off .
The mercury placed at the beginning of an experiment in B was heated by means of a small electric heater , while the bulb C and part of the tube was kept in 42 Mr. F. S. Phillips .
Phosphorescence of Mercv.ry cold water .
With this arrangement the mercury completely distilled over in about\#171 ; 90 minutes .
The beam of ultra-violet light passed across the tube at the point A , its direction being indicated in the diagram by an arrow .
A screen was so placed as to prevent any light reaching directly the cold limb of the tube .
When the beam was passed across while the A whole apparatus was cold the resonant direction of beam radiation extended the width of the tube , but as soon as the bulb B was heated and the mercury began to distil over , the radiation became concentrated at the point where the beam entered .
This resonant radiation was quite bright enough to be viewed by means of a camera with a quartz lens , using a piece of uranium glass as a screen .
A stream of green fluorescent light , originating from the concentrated patch of resonant radiation , passed round the tube with the distilling mercury vapour .
A photograph of the tube under these conditions has been reproduced on Plate 4 , fig. 2 .
This photograph was obtained by means of an ordinary camera , so that it does not show the resonant radiation , which , though of course invisible , was really more intense than the green fluorescence .
The silica itself also fluoresced with a bluish-violet colour under the influence of the ultra-violet light .
The effect of this has been reduced to some extent by taking the photograph through a yellow screen .
Since the fluorescence of the mercury vapour is green ( the region of minimum sensitiveness of the photographic plate ) , this operation was somewhat difficult , and the resulting photograph is not a good reproduction of the actual effect .
However , it shows plainly that the stream of fluorescence passes up the tube from the point of excitation , while none passes downwards .
In the actual experiment the fluorescence clearly showed the stream-lines of the vapour passing through the patch of resonant radiation .
The glow passed up the hot limb of the tube as an attenuated band , but gradually spread out and filled the whole tube as it passed into the other limb .
Its course could be traced for about 18 inches , this was as long a path as it could be made to take in the particular tube used .
Further investigation on this point will be made with the idea of determining the length of time for which the fluorescence will persist .
Vapour after Removal of the Exciting Light .
The spectrum of the fluorescence carried over was obtained by means of a small quartz spectrograph at a point some distance down the cold limb of the tube .
It was found to be similar in character to the spectrum obtained by Wood for the fluorescence stimulated by cadmium light .
But , instead of the two bands of continuous spectrum that Wood obtained , there were four .
The 2536 line itself appeared in the fluorescent spectrum A , which is the upper one of the two reproduced in fig. 3 of Plate 4 .
The lower one was obtained under similar conditions except that a piece of glass was placed in the direct path of the beam , so causing the fluorescence to cease .
In this way it was shown that all the lines in the upper spectrum , except the 2536 line , were due to stray light .
This was deduced from the fact that in the original negative the three lines in the part of the spectrum , to which glass is transparent , were equally intense in both spectra .
This experiment also suggests a method of solving a problem raised by Wood , * in his paper on resonance radiation of mercury vapour .
He attempts to discover the mechanism of the secondary resonance radiation , which surrounds the beam of primary radiation under conditions of low pressure of the accompanying air .
The mercury vapour itself was of course at very low pressure , being kept at ordinary temperatures .
The secondary radiation may be due , as Wood pointed out , to one or both of two causes : ( 1 ) the light from the primary beam exciting the secondary radiation , or ( 2 ) the molecules of mercury diffusing from the primary beam and being still active , exhibiting the radiation in the neighbourhood of the beam .
A thin screen of quartz was used by Wood in his attempt to separate the two effects .
Such a screen would allow the light , but not the molecules , to pass through .
The experiment was only conclusive in as far as it showed that the greater portion of the effect was due to the action of the light radiated from the primary beam .
Wood thought it impossible to obtain a screen that would cut off the light and yet would allow the molecules to pass .
In effect a moving column of vapour , such as is used in the present experiment , achieves the desired object .
Certain observations during the course of the experiment seem to show that about one-twentieth of the secondary radiation in Wood 's experiment was probably due to moving molecules .
The rest of the radiation would be produced by scattered light from the primary beam .
S 4 .
Other Experiments .
Besides mercury the vapours of such substances as iodine , anthracene , and retene were experimented with , in order to ascertain whether the fluorescence * 'Phil .
Mag. , ' May , 1912 .
Phosphorescence of Mercury Vapour .
of the vapours persisted .
An attempt was also made to obtain the same effect in the case of the fluorescence of mercury vapour excited by cadmium light .
In all cases so far investigated , negative results have been obtained .
This is probably due to the fact that the fluorescence does not occur at a sufficiently low pressure to make the method feasible .
S 5 .
Summary .
( 1 ) The paper describes how phosphorescence of a vapour has been for the first time observed .
The method consists in passing a beam of the exciting-light across a moving column of the vapour .
If the fluorescence of the vapour persists it will be carried along with the stream .
( 2 ) The vapour chosen was that of mercury and the exciting light was the 2536 mercury line , obtained by means of a water-cooled silica lamp .
This light caused mercury vapour to fluoresce at a very low pressure .
( 3 ) The moving column of mercury vapour was obtained by distilling mercury in an evacuated tube .
When a beam of 2536 light was passed across the moving column the fluorescence was carried along with the vapour .
( 4 ) The fluorescence of some other vapours was also investigated , in order to ascertain whether in any case it was persistent , but no positive results were obtained .
In conclusion I have very great pleasure in thanking Prof , the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , for his kind interest and help during the course of this research .
It was at his suggestion that these experiments on the optical properties of mercury vapour were carried out .
I have also to thank Prof. Fowler , F.R.S. , for kindly permitting me the use of the instruments mounted in the Spectroscopic Laboratory of the Imperial College of Science and Technology .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Showing the reversal of the 2536 line in the hot mercury lamp .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Showing phosphorescence of mercury vapour .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; A. Spectrum of phosphorescence .
Phillips .
Poy .
Soc. Proc. , A , 89 , Plate 4 .
2534-9 2536-7 Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
2536 3132 3655 40474359 Fig. 3 .

