V. " Second Memoir on the Curves which satisfy given conditions ; the Principle of Correspondence .
" By Professor CAYLEY , F.R.S. Received April 18 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) In the present memoir I reproduce with additional developments the theory established in my paper " On the Correspondence of two points on a Curve " ( London Math. Society , No. VII .
, April 1866 ) ; and I endeavour to apply it to the determination of the number of the conics which satisfy given conditions ; these are conditions of contact with a given curve , or they may include arbitrary conditions Z , 2Z , &amp;c. If , for a moment , we consider the more general question where the Principle is to be applied to finding the number of the curves Cr of the order r , which satisfy given conditions of contact with a given curve , there are here two kinds of special solutions ; viz. , we may have proper curves C ' touching ( specially ) the given curve at a cusp or cusps thereof , and we may have improper curves , that is , curves which break up into two or more curves of inferior orders .
In the case where the curves C ' are lines , there is only the first kind of special solution , where the sought for lines touch at a cusp or cusps .
But in the case to which the memoir chiefly relates , where the curves C " are conics , we have the two kinds of special solutions , viz. , proper conics touching at a cusp or cusps , and conics which are linepairs or point-pairs .
In the application of the Principle to determining the number of the conics which satisfy any given conditions , I introduce into the equation a term called the " Supplement " ( denoted by the abbreviation " Supp. " ) , to include the special solutions of both kinds .
The expression of the Supplement should in every case be furnished by the theory ; and this being known , we should then have an equation leading to the number of the conics which properly satisfy the prescribed conditions ; but in thus finding the expression of the Supplements , there are difficulties which I am unable to overcome ; and I have contented myself with the reverse course , viz. , knowing in each case the number of the proper solutions , I use these results to determine a posteriori in each case the expression of the Supplement ; the expression so obtained can in some cases be accounted for readily enough , and the knowledge of the whole series of them will be a convenient basis for ulterior investigations .

