7 .
" Researches on the Function of the Intercostal Muscles and on the Respiratory Movements , with some remarks on Muscular Power , in Man .
" By John Hutcliinson , M.R.C.S. Communicated by Sir Benjamin Brodie , Bart. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The object of this paper is to demonstrate by models and dissections the action of the intercostal muscles .
After premising an account of the views of several eminent physiologists , and in particular those promulgated by Haller , the author shows that they resolve themselves into the general opinion that the scalene or other muscles of the neck fix the first rib , in order to enable the two sets of intercostal muscles to act either separately or conjointly , as inspiratory or expiratory muscles .
He then proceeds to state the proofs that the intercostal muscles possess an action which is independent of any other muscle , and also independent of each other , so that any of the tweive ribs may be elevated or depressed by them either separately or conjointly .
He demonstrates the nature of this action by means of models , producing oblique tensions between levers representing the ribs , and allowing of rotation on their centres of motion ; and he shows that such tension in the direction of the external intercostal muscles , elevates both the levers until the tension ceases , or the position of the bars by proxiImty obstruct each other .
If the tension be exerted in a contrary direction , as in the internal intercostal muscles , the bars are both depressed .
This movement was demonstrated by a model .
It was farther shown that two tensions decussating can , according to the position of the fulcra , be made to act as associates or antagonists to each other .
Such motions are to be considered with reference to the fulcra , bars with one fulcrum common to each having no such action ; and the author accordingly draws the following conclusions : 1st .
All the external intercostal muscles are true inspiratory muscles , elevators of the ribs , and with this act they dilate the intercostal spaces , thus increasing the cavity of the chest .
2nd .
The internal intercostal muscles have a double action ; the portions situated between the cartilages are associates in action with the external layer , and act as elevators of the cartilages , while the portion between the ribs are depressors , or antagonists of the external layer , and are here true expiratory muscles ; with this they decrease the intercostal spaces .
3rd .
These muscles can elevate or depress the ribs independently of any other muscle , fixing the first or last rib .
Ally one lainella , or series of muscles , can , as required , independently perform inspiration or expiration at any one of the twenty-two intercostal spaces .
4th .
In inspiration , the intercostal spaces increase , with a shortening of the muscle ; and in expiration , they decrease their perpendicular distance , with a shortening of the muscle .
5th .
All parallel intercostal muscles , acting with uniform force , concur in the same effect , whether near the fulcrum or more distant from it , and these muscles gain power with their increasing obliquity as well as speed .
In the third part of the paper an account is given of the difference between the external thoracic space and the internal pulmonic space .
The respiratory movements are described in health and disease , and it is shown that the chest is rarely enlarged at two places at one and the same time .
In conclusion the author conceives that he has established the following propositions:1st .
Costal breathing may be distinguished from abdominal by determining which part is first put in motion , and the kind of respiration may be designated according to the name of such part .
2nd .
Healthy costal breathing begins with the motion of a superior rib , which is followed by that of the lower ones in succession .
3rd .
Ordinary respiration in men is abdominal , in women , costal ; extraordinary breathing is the same in both sexes .
4th .
Any of the ribs , from the twelfth to the first , may carry on respiration .
5th .
Diseased respiration is of various kinds ; the movements may be symmetric or not symmetric , costal or abdominal ; all or none of the ribs may move ; the abdomen may or umay not move ; the chest may dilate in all its dimensions at one and the same time ; costal and abdominal breathing may alternate with one another ; costal motion may be undulating or not ; and all these may be combined in one , which the author terms " hesitating breathing ; " and lastly , the qualntity of air breathed is diminished when there exists pulmonary disease .

