Fig.3 .
W QSTR Fig. 4 .
CVD GHF RN FO IKEN ~A ~~OP~F ELMFG XY HH E M P OQ B LA I M LB A Letter , subscribed W. Tenon , concerning Dr Papin 's new Water-Engine .
SIR , THE other day , upon reading in the Transactions , a description of the effects of a Water-Engin , invented by Dr Papin , and propounded as a Problem to find out the contrivance , there came into my mind the following thought .
I do not think it is the same with his , nor so good , but such as it is I send you , because variety of fancies gives hints many times to better new inventions .
Tab. 1 .
Fig. 3 .
ABDE signifies a cylindrical Vessel , closed on every side , and divided into two rooms by the floor E F. GLM H , is another Cylindrical Vessel within that upper room , cemented with its mouth downwards to the floor , and full of water up to the surface I K ; the upper part thereof GIK H , being full of Air .
QO , RP two Pipes , open above and below , and let through the upper room into this Vessel , and reaching almost down to the floor E F. UWa Pipe open above and below , and let into the upper room .
These Pipes must be close joined round about them to the floors C D , and G H. X , Y , two little hemispherical bladders , prepared with Oil or some Oily substance ( as Butter or Turpentine ) against water , and cemented with their Mouths upward to the floor OF underneath .
~ , ~ two valves opening out of the upper room into the bladders .
~ , ~ two other valves opening out of the bladders into the inner Vessel above .
NZa pendulum playing upon the center N , and having two battledoor arms ab to squeeze alternately the bladders which rest upon them .
Let the upper room be filled with water at the Pipe U W , and if the pendulum be made to play by Clockwork , the bladders will perpetually pump it thence into the inner Vessel , and the comprest Air GIKH in the upper part of that Vessel , pressing upon the surface of the water I K , will force it thence into the Pipes O Q , P R , out of which spouting with a perpetual even stream into the spoons S , T , it will run down by the Pipe WU , into the upper room again .
The pendulum will play most easily when the upper room is filled to the top of the Pipe WU .
Instead of the bladders may be other contrivances , as of suckers or little Organ bellows , playing alternately with two leaves about an axis in the middle .
Sept. 16 .
1685 .
W. Tenon .
Ttt Eclipsis

