293 II .
He pouts of Proceedings of the Naturalists .
1 .
Report of Dr. Is .
B. Balfour .
I left England upon the 1st July 1874 , and embarked at Marseilles on board the Messa-geries Maritimes steamer .
I reached Mauritius with my confreres on the 4tli of August .
On our arrival there we met Lieut. Neates , the head of the expedition to Rodriguez , who had come by the troopship " Elizabeth Martin " some days previously .
H.M.S. Shearwater " with the other astronomers and the astronomical instruments arrived at Mauritius on the 6th , and as there was no cause for delay there , Captain Wharton decided to sail for Rodriguez on the lltli .
This was carried out , and after a week 's voyage the ship anchored in Mathurin Bay , Rodriguez , on the afternoon of Tuesday the 18th .
Owing to the difficulty of carrying heavy baggage over the reefs , rendered doubly so by the neap tides which then occurred , some days elapsed ere we could take up our abode on the island .
These days I spent in making an examination of the general features of the island .
On the 2Sth of August I quitted the ship , and went to live on shore , and at once commenced my botanical and geological work .
As I have already explained in my letters to the Royal Society , * ' the flora is very scant owing to the frequency of the fires which have swept across the island .
Indeed fully one half of the island is entirely bare of vegetation , save the few social weeds which now occupy the place of the destroyed indigenous plants .
The only parts of the island where any amount of vegetation is to be found are the upper regions of some of the valleys , round which the fires have evidently passed , leaving them comparatively unscathed ; but even here the plants are few and the dryness of the soil precludes any luxuriance .
I explored thoroughly all those valleys which promised any botanical treasures , and I regret to say the result is very poor .
In accordance with the wishes of Captain Wharton , I had all my specimens packed and on board the " Shearwater " by the day of the Transit .
On the 15th of December we quitted Rodriguez and sighted Mauritius on the 18tli .
I remained in Mauritius until the 5th of February 1675 .
During my stay I spent much time at the botanical gardens examining the native flora , and I also made excursions over the island for the purpose of investigating the species of indigenous Pandani .
Specimens , the result of my work , I have transmitted to England .
Leaving Mauritius by the mail steamer on the 5th February , I reached Bourbon next morning .
Here I remained investigating its rich and little known flora .
Unfortunately bad weather during my stay rendered botanical and geological explorations both unpleasant and difficult .
I amassed a considerable number of specimens illustrating the vegetation of the island , and I specially devoted some time to the examination of the Pandani .
On the 6th March the mail came in , and I had reluctantly to leave Bourbon .
I reached Marseilles on the 31st March and London on April 2nd .
Is .
Bailey Balfour .
* See Proc. Roy .
Soc. 1874 , p. 135 .
2 .
Report of Henry H. Slater , Esq. , R.A. I landed in Mauritius August 4th , 1874 .
The Hon. Edward Newton kindly asked me to stay with him .
My instructions directed me to take his advice as to my mode of procedure in Rodriguez , and accordingly I requested George Jenner , Esq. , Director of Emigrants for the Grand Port District , to select for me nine good men and a cook .
This took some time and I regretted much that I was not able to leave for Rodriguez until September 9tli , by the second trip of the " Shearwater .
" I was wishing at first , nevertheless , to sail without my men , had not Mr. Newton and Mr. Jenner ( 10 years magistrate of Rodriguez ) assured me that I could do nothing without my men , and that the natives of Rodriguez were quite unreliable .
We landed in Rodriguez on September 14th , with our 10 men .
Settled in Port Matliurin and stayed there for a day to allow the men to recover from the voyage , which had been stormy ; Government House had been allotted to the naturalists as a residence and head-quarters , but two tents had been supplied from the " Shearwater , " one of which was to be my habitation at the caverns .
After this the weather was stormy for some days , so much so that it would not have been prudent to attempt the sea voyage to the caves , and no native would pilot one there ; but afterwards the weather changed and I secured two boats , in which , upon the 18th of September , I carried my men , tent , stores , and tools down to the caverns .
Owing to the roughness of the country , which is very hilly , it would have been impossible to have carried the stores , \amp ; c. overland , without many porters and great expense .
The 19th was occupied in establishing camp , in building a hut for the men , and in prospecting for caves , of which I found several .
Next morning we started work : the caves had all been previously dug over , but I determined to dig them again , and to a depth of three feet , and we found a good many bones ( mostly tortoise , but with some of Pezophaps ) though they were in a bad state of preservation .
I used to go out every evening to take my daily exercise and to shoot game ( no fowls or goats could be got at the caverns , which part of the island is nearly uninhabited , so that it was necessary to shoot a supply of game ) , and on these walks I found all the caves .
This sort of work , i.e. , digging over caves second hand , continued till the 6th of October .
I used to go home always on Saturday afternoon with the week 's bones , stay over Sunday , and leave Government House for the caves on Monday morning in my canoe , carrying a week 's rations for the men and my own supplies .
On October 7tli I found some new caves .
These formed a branch of a cavern already dug\gt ; but as entrance to them was extremely difficult , they had hitherto escaped notice .
In these we found a large quantity of Solitaire bones and the almost perfect skeletons of a male and female mingled , including the rings of the trachea ; very few tortoise bones were intermixed , and I found it an almost invariable rule , that where Solitaire bones were found in large numbers and apparently occupying the spots where they died , there were few or no tortoise bones amongst them .
After this I had varying success , sometimes getting a good haul and making valuable notes , sometimes doing nothing in either particular till October 23rd .
On that day I was waiting for my head man near a curious ravine which we called " the Gorge , " intending to make a survey of it with a view to new caves , when I noticed a small dark hole behind a huge block of coralline limestone .
I peered in and found it to be a large cave which had been obliterated by a fall of rock ; so when my Sirdar came , a thoroughly intelligent and enthusiastic man , we got a large mallet , and after reducing some huge blocks to movable fragments , gained entrance and found many bones , including one skeleton of Pezophaps which had evidently fallen into a cleft and had been unable to extricate itself ; the bones being not quite covered with earth some had become quite decayed ; indeed , had it not been that bones lying on the surface were always almost or quite decayed , I should have many skeletons of Pezophaps perfect .
HENRY H. SLATER.\#151 ; GEORGE GULLIVER .
On November 6th we found another virgin cave ; it yielded about 24 crania , several quite perfect and with the beaks still attached , maxillae , mandibles , and quadrates in their right places ; and other bones in proportion , including many furcuia , the auditory ossicles , plates of sclerotic , and the first phalange of wing , one of the few bones not already found .
After this , although vigorous search was continued , no caves were found of any value , all were disturbed by the action of running water , for some of the caves occasionally served as beds for subterranean rivers .
We dug for three days in a neighbouring marsh , about 450 feet above the sea level .
Hitherto all the bones of Didus ineptus recently found have been discovered in the marshes of Mauritius , and I hoped that some result might reward a similar search in Rodriguez , but our work there was entirely ineffectual .
I never could find any traces of the stones mentioned by Lequat as invariably occurring in the stomach of Pezophaps , although I sought for them diligently ; we used to pass all the soil found in the bottom of the more fertile caves through sieves , and nothing of the sort was found .
Surely a stone which in 1693 was sufficiently hard and close grained to serve as a good whetstone for knives , should have survived as long as the fragile ribs and crania of the bird !
The last week I was in Rodriguez ( December 9\#151 ; 15 ) was employed in packing up my numerous specimens .
It may be imagined that so many fragile bones would need a large quantity of some soft and elastic medium in which to pack them , but there was very little straw , no grass was to be had in the island , and I was reduced to great shifts .
I finally put them temporarily in barrels , but when I unpacked them in Mauritius I was horrified to find that some of the most valuable specimens of all , which had been placed in sawdust , had , owing to the displacement of the sawdust , got mixed one layer with another ; but I do not see that this will cause any real inconvenience .
I left Rodriguez on December 15th , and arrived in Mauritius December 19th ; left that island for Reunion January 9th ; Reunion for Europe February 6th ; and landed in England March 10th .
3 .
Report of George Gulliver , Esq. , B.A. After my arrival in Rodriguez , in company with Mr. H. H. Slater , as stated in his report , I immediately proceeded in accordance with my instructions to make as complete a collection as possible of the land and freshwater animals of the island .
As directed by my instructions I paid no special attention to marine zoology .
I left Rodriguez immediately after the Transit of Venus , the period of my stay there being accordingly about three months .
Here my colleagues and I must express our special thanks to Mr. Newton , C.M.G. , the Colonial Secretary at Mauritius , to Commander Wharton , R.N. , and the officers of H.M.S. " Shearwater , " to Mr. Bell the present , and Mr. Turner the late magistrate at Rodriguez , and to the residents in Mauritius for the assistance they constantly rendered and the kindness they always displayed to us .
Personally I must again make acknowledgments , more especially to Commander Wharton , and the officers of the " Shearwater , " and to Mr. Bewsher , of the Oriental Bank Corporation .
Finally it would be difficult for me sufficiently to thank Professor Rolleston for the kindness which he has constantly shown to me , both before my departure from , and since my return to England .

