V. On Oxalurate of Ammonia as a Constituent of Human Urine .
" By I. SCHUNCK , F.R.S. Received November 15 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) When ordinary healthy urine is passed through animal charcoal in the manner described in the preceding paper , several organic substances are separated and absorbed by the charcoal in addition to the fatty acid there referred to .
The liquid obtained by treating the charcoal with boiling alcohol having been evaporated , the residue is treated with water , which leaves the fatty acid undissolved .
The filtered liquid yields on evaporation a quantity of crystals , which , after being purified in the manner described by the author , are found to have the properties and composition of oxalurate of ammonia .
The watery solution of the substance gives with acids a white crystalline precipitate of oxaluric acid ; with nitrate of silver it produces a precipitate which dissolves without change in boiling water , the solution on cooling depositing white silky needles of oxalurate of silver .
The lead compound produced by adding acetate of lead to the watery solution , forms well-defined prismatic crystals .
With chloride of calcium the watery solution gives no precipitate , but on adding ammonia and boiling , there is an abundant precipitation of oxalate of lime .
By treatment with strong acids the substance is decomposed , yielding oxalic acid and urea .
Its composition was found to correspond with the formula C 1-1 N3 0O , which is that of oxalurate of ammonia .
The author 's experiments were not sufficiently numerous to decide the question whether this salt is .
a normal constituent of human urine or not .
There is no doubt , however , that its presence , whether exceptional or not , affords an easy and satisfactory explanation of a phenomenon which has until now proved very puzzling , viz. , the formation of oxalate of lime in urine long after its emission .
It is doubtless owing to the decomposition of oxaluric acid , which takes up water and splits up into urea and oxalic acid ; the latter then combines with lime , of which there is always a sufficient quantity present to saturate the acid .
There can be little doubt also that oxaluric acid is derived in the animal frame , as in the laboratory , from uric acid , the oxidation of which is its only known source .

