X. An Account of the Application of the Gas from Coal to economical Purposes .
By Mr. William Murdoch .
Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read February 25 , 18o8 .
TIHE facts and results intended to be communicated in this Paper , are founded upon observations made , during the present winter , at the cotton manufactory of Messrs. PHILIPS and LEE at Manchester , where the light obtained by the combustion of the gas from coal is used upon a very large scale ; the apparatus for its production and application having been prepared by me at the works of Messrs. BOULTON , WATT , and Co. at Soho .
The whole of the rooms of this cotton mill , which is , I believe , the most extensive in the United Kingdom , as well as its counting-houses and store-rooms , and the adjacent dwellinghouse of Mr. LEE , are lighted with the gas from coal .
The total quantity of light used during the hours of burning , has been ascertained , by a comparison of shadows , to be about equal to the light which 2500 mould candles of six in the pound would give ; each of the candles , with which the comparison was made consuming at the rate of 4-ioths of an ounce ( 175 grains ) of tallow per hour .
The quantity of light is necessarily liable to some variation , from the difficulty of adjusting all the flames , so as to be perfectly equal at all times ; but the admirable precision and exactness with which the business of this mill is conducted , afforded as excellent an opportunity of making the comparative trials I had in view , as is perhaps likely to be ever obtained in general practice .
And the experiments being made upon so large a scale , and for a considerable period of time , may , I think , be assumed as a sufficiently accurate standard for determining the advantages to be expected from the use of the gas lights under favourable circumstances .
It is not my intention , in the present Paper , to enter into a particular description of the apparatus employed for producing the gas ; but I may observe generally , that the coal is distilled in large iron retorts , which during the winter season are kept constantly at work , except during the intervals of charging ; and that the gas , as it rises from them , is conveyed by iron pipes into large reservoirs , or gazometers , where it is washed and purified , previous to its being conveyed through other pipes , called mains , to the mill .
These mains branch off into a variety of ramifications ( forming a total length of several miles ) , and diminish in size , as the quantity of gas required to be passed through them becomes less .
The burners , where the gas is consumed , are connected with the above mains , by short tubes , each of which is furnished with a cock to regulate the admission of the gas to each burner , and to shut it totally off when requisite .
This latter operation may likewise be instantaneously performed , throughout the whole of the burners in each room , by turning a cock , with which each main is provided , near its entrance into the room .
The burners are of two kinds : the one is upon the principle of the ARGAND lamp , and resembles it in appearance ; the other is a small curved tube with a conical end , having 125 three circular apertures or perforations , of about a thirtieth of an inch in diameter , one at the point of the cone , and two lateral ones , through which : the gas issues , forming three divergent jets of flame ; somewhat like a fleur-de-liS .
The shape and general appearance of this tube , has procured it among the-workmen , the name of the cockspur burner .
The number of burners employed in all 5the buildings , amounts to -271 ARG'ANDS , and 633 cockspurs ; each of the former giving a light equal to that of four candles of the description abovementioned ; and each of the latter , a light equal to two and a quarter of the same candles ; making therefore the total of the gas light a little more than equal to that of 2500 candles .
Wvhen thus regulated , the whole of the:above burners require an hourly supply of 1o0o cubic feet Of the gas produced from cannel coal ; the superior quality and quantity-of the gas produced from that aterial having given it a decided preference in this situation , over every other coal , notwithstanding its higher price .
The time during which the gas light is used , may , upon an average of the whole year , be stated at least at two hours per day of twenty-four hours .
In some mills , where there is over work , it will be three hours ; and in the few where nightwork is still continued , nearly twelve hours .
But taking two hours per day as the common average throughout the year , the consumption in Messrs. PHILIPS ' and LEE'S mill , will be 1250 x2= 2500 cubic feet of gas per day ; to produce which , seven hundred weight of cannel coal is required in the retort .
The price of the best Wigan cannel ( the sort used ) i ; s id. per cwt .
( 22S .
6d .
per ton ) , delivered at the mill , or say about eight shillings for the seven hundred weight .
Multiplying by m 6 thenufmber of wo.rking days in the year ( 313 ) , the annual consumption:of cannel will be io tons , and its cost t 125 .
I : -About ne-hirdof the above quantity , or say forty tons of good common coal , value ten shillings per ton , is required for -fuel to heat the retorts ; the annual amount of which is 20o .
-The 1:to tons of cannel coal when distilled , produce about yo-tons of good coak , which is sold upon the spot at is , 4d .
per cwt .
and will therefore amount annually to the sum of ?
93* The quantity of tar produced from each ton of cannel coal is from eleven to twelve ale gallons , making a total annual produce of about:12S5o ale gallons , which not having been yet sold , I cannot determine its value ; but whenever it comes to be manufactured in large quantities , it cannot be such as materially to influence the economical statement , unless indeed new applications of it should be discovered .
The quantity of aqueous fluid which came over in the course of the observations which I am now giving an account of , was not exactly ascertained , from some springs having got into the:reservoir ; and as it has not been yet applied to any useful purpse , I may omit further notice of it in this statement .
The interest of the capital expended in the necessary appargtus and buildings , together with what is considered as an ample allowance for wear and tear , is stated by Mr. LEE at about o550 per annum : in which some allowance is made for this apparatus being made upon a scale adequate to the supply of a still greater quantity of light , than he has occasion to make use of .
IW7 is of opinio , that the ; cost , of atten , dance ,.upn caitdles would be as much , if not more , than upon the .
gasppas ; so that in foring the comparison , nothing ned be statedupon that score , on either side .
The economical statement for one year then stands thus : Cost of 1to tons of cannel coal 125 Ditto of 40 tons of common ditto Dedu-ct the valtie:of7o tos ofcoak 93 The annual expenditure in coal , after deducting -theae lue of e cok , and ithout aloi any thing for the tar , is therefre 5$ And the interest of capital , and wear and tear of apparatus '5-0 mking the total expense of the gas apparatus , bot 60 .
per ann-um .
That of candles , to give the same ight , would be aboti ?
b:oo .
For each candle consuming at the rate of 4-loths of an ounce of tallow per hour , the 20oo candles burning uponan average of the yyear two hours per day , would , at one 'shing per pound , the present price , amount to nearly the sum of mon abovementioned .
-If the comparison were made upon an average of three hours per day , the advantage would be still more in -fvour of the gas light ; the interest of the capital , and wearand tear of the apparatus continuing nearly the same as in the former case- ; thus , 1250 x3 -3750 cubic feet of gas per day , which wold be produced by : do cwt .
of cannel coals ; this multiplied bythe rmmber of working days , gives 168 tons per annum , which valued as before , amounts to 88 .
And Go tons common coal for burning under the retorts , will amount to 30 218 Deduct 105 tons of coak at 26s .
8d .
140 Leaving the expenditure in coal , after deduction of the coak , and without -allowance for the tar , at 78 Adding to which the interest and wear and tear of apparatus , as before , the total annual cost will not be more than X650o whilst that of tallow , rated as before , will be ?
3ooo .
It Nwll readily occur , that the greater number of hours the gas is burnt , the greater will be its comparative economy ; although in extending it beyond three hours , an increase of some parts of the apparatus would be necessary .
If the economical comparison were made with oils , the advantages would be less than with tallow .
The introduction of this species of light into the establishment of Messrs. PHILIPS and LEE , has been gradual ; beginning in the year 1805 , with two rooms of the mill , the countinghouses , and Mr. LEE'S dwelling-house .
After which , it was extended through the whole manufactory , as expeditiously as the apparatus could be prepared .
At first , some inconvenience was experienced from the smell of the unconsumed , or imperfectly purified gas , which may in a great measure be attributed to the introduction of successive improvements in the construction of the apparatus , as the work proceeded .
But since its completion , and since the persons to whose care it is confided , have become famiiliar with its ianagement , this inconvenience has been obviated , not only in the .
mill , but also in Mr. LEE'S house , which is most brillantly illuminated with it , to the exclusion of evry otherspcies of artificial light .
The peculiar softness and clearness of this light , with its almost unvarying intensity , have brought it into great:favour with the work people .
And its being free from the in onre nience and danger , resulting from the sparks and frequen snuffing of candles , is a circumstance of material importance , as tending to diminish the hazard of fire , to which cotton mills are known toibe much exposed .
The above particulars , itis conceived , contain such informa tion , as may tend to illustrate the general advantages atteding the , use of the gas light ; but nevertheless thegRoyal Society may perhaps not deemt it uninteresting t be , app r.pf the , circumstances .
which Qriin:il , yg , risei ?
m to its application , as an economical substitutenfor oils iand tallow .
-.It is now nearly sixteen years , since , in .
a couseof perilents I was making at Redr ; uth ipnCornwall , upon the qua-i tities and qualities of the gases produced by distillatiop.frm different mineral and vegetable substances , I was induced by , some obsrvations I had previously made upon the burning of coal , to try the combustible property of the gases pr4gced -from it , as well as from peat , wood , and other , infammab substances .
And being struck with the , great quantities of ga which they afforded , as well as with the brilliancy of the li ; gt , and the facility of its production , I instituted several exp , riments with a view of ascertaining.the co.st .
at ; ihich.it itht -150 pp tol ' G fr-i zCal.3 be obtained , ' ' compared:with : that : of 'equal quantities o6f'ig t yielded by oils and tallow .
M ; iiy apparatus consisted of an iron retort , with tiniiedcopper andi-r0n'i-tlubes : throughth which the as 'cbnducted to a considerable distance ; and there , as well as at iintermedliate points , waas burned through apertures of varied forms and diiensions .
The experiments were made upon coal of different qualities , which I procured from distant parts of the kingdom , for the purpose of ascertaining which would:give the most economical results .
The gas was also washed with ater , ad other means were employed to purify it .
In the year 1798 , I removed from Cornwall to Messrs. 'ULrToN , 'WAAT , 'aid ' ; '''sCO'S.'works for the manufactory of steiam ' engnes-at the Soho Foundry , and there I constructed an iCapparatus upon a larger scale , which during many successive nights was applied to the lighting of their principal build-g , and various new ethods were practised , of washing and purifying the : gas .
: These experiments were continued with some interruptions , untilthe peace of 1802 , when : a public display of this light wa'Sinade by me in the illumination of Mr. BouLtoN 's manufctory at Soho , 'upon that occasion .
, :':Since " that:period , I have , under the sanction of Messrs. I3OULTON , :'ATT , and Co. extended the apparatus at Soho Founidr:y .
, so as to give light to all the principal shops , where it'i:-i reg:lar use , to the exclusion of other artificial light ; but I : have preferred giving the results from Messrs. PHILIPS ' .
and " ' LEE 's ; apparatus , both on account of its greater extent , :andthei greater i uniformity of the lights , which rendered the mIparison with candles less difficult .
S2 13S1 At the time I commenced my experiments , I was certainly unacquainted with the circumstance of the gas from coal having.been observed byothers to be capable of combustion ; but I am since informed , that the current of gas escaping from Lord DUNDONALD'S tar ovens had been frequently fired ; and I find that Dr. CLAYTON , in a Paper in Volume XLI .
of the Transactions of the Royal Society , so long ago as the year 1739 , gave an account of some observations and experiments made by him , which clearly manifest his knowledge of the inflammable property of the gas , which he denominates " the spirit of coals ; ' " but the idea of applying it as an economical substitute for oils and tallow , does not appear to ave eocctired to this gentleman , and I believe I may , without presuming too much , claim both the first idea of applying , and the first actual application of this gas to economical purposes

