The Bakerian Lecture .
On certain Motions produced in Fluid Conductors when transmitting the Electric Current .
By J. F. W. Herschel , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 12 , 1824 , [ Phil. Trans. 1824 , p. 162 .
] In the first paragraphs of this lecture , Mr. Herschel describes the phenomena that result on placing a portion of mercury covered with sulphuric acid between the voltaic poles immersed on opposite sides of the globule of metal , but in contact with the acid only .
They consist in active motion of those particles of the acid in contact with the mercury , while the superficial molecules of the metal continually radiate from the point nearest the negative pole , and darting to the positive pole return along the axis .
The author particularly notices several singular appearances resulting from this current , and shows them to be independent of any electro-magnetic vortices , to which , at first sight , they present considerable analogy .
They are incomparably more forcible , in proportion to the electric powers used , than the motions produced by the action of magnets ; hence , they furnish an extremely sensible test of the development of feeble Voltaic powers not easily rendered sensible by other means .
The author next describes the appearances observed in cases where other liquids and metals are used , and adverts to the influence of several causes upon the uniformity of the results .
Among these , impurity in the mercury is especially noticed , which should not only be carefully distilled , but also well washed with dilute nitric acid .
Mercury thus prepared , and placed in the current as before , exhibits phenomena varying with the nature of the liquid ; -generally speaking , currents are produced radiating from the point nearest the negative pole , which are most violent in acids , and less in saline solutions , in proportion as the electro-positive energy of the base is greater .
In many liquids a counter-current from the positive pole is observed ; but if either pole be brought in contact with the mercury , no currents are observed from the point of contact , but strong ones are perceived to radiate from the other .
If the negative pole touch it , it amalgamates with the mercury , which remains bright ; if the positive , the mercury rapidly oxidizes ; and in both cases currents are produced .
Mr. Herschel proceeds to observe , that when mercury is electrized in saline solutions , its properties are generally altered ; and he describes at length the phenomena thus presented in a solution of sulphate of soda , which were peculiar and apparently perplexing , but which he found to depend upon the presence of amalgam of sodium counteracting the effect of the negative pole , and exalting that of the positive in proportion to its quantity , until it overcomes and even reverses it .
That sodium is actually present in these cases the author shows by the following experiment:-Having detached the negative wire , he touched the mercury , now lying quiet in the liquid , with a platinum or copper wire , and a violent action instantly began .
The mercury rushed to the wire in a superficial current , and it gave off abundance of hydrogen ; the sodium , wire , and liquid , forming a voltaic combination sufficiently powerful to decompose the water .
The author next proceeds to investigate more minutely the effects of different metals in their contact and amalgamation with mercury , employing solutions of the caustic alkalies for the conducting liquids , which have the advantage of producing no currents in pure mercury so long as neither pole is in contact with it .
In liquid potash a contact with the negative pole , of a single second 's continuance , imparted to 100 grains of mercury the property of rotating violently from the positive to the negative pole , when the circuit was completed in the liquid alone .
The rotation was even sensible when the quantity of potassium did not probably exceed a millionth part of the whole mass .
With sodium similar effects were observed ; and even where the proportion of sodium to mercury was only as 1 to 1,600,000 , a feeble motion was sensible .
The influence of barium , strontium , calcium and magnesium , and of zinc , lead , tin and iron , is next described , the alloys of these metals being all possessed of the positive property .
Copper , on the other hand , does not communicate motion , though present in considerable proportion ; nor do bismuth , silver , nor gold .
Mr. Herschel concludes this lecture with some general and theoretical observations and deductions , founded on his experimental inquiries .
These relate principally to the exceedingly minute proportions of extraneous matter capable of communicating sensible mechanical motions , and properties of a definite character , to the body they are mixed with .
When we see energies so intense exerted by the ordinary forms of matter , we may , says the author , reasonably ask what evidence we have for the imponderability of any of the powerful agents to which so large a part of the activity of material bodies seems to be owing .
Among the essential conditions of the phenomena , the author particularly adverts to the vast difference of conducting power between the metallic bodies set in motion , and the liquid under which they are immersed ; to the necessity of the perfect immiscibility of the con , ducting fluids , so as to render the transition of one to the other quite sudden ; and to a certain chemical or electrical relation between them .
Under these conditions , Mr. Herschel observes , the phenomenon may admit of explanation , from what we already know of the passage of electricity through conductors , and the high attractive and repulsive powers of the two electricities inter se .
A body so highly positive as potassium , present in the mercury , may , for instance , have its natural electrical state exalted by its vicinity to the positive pole ; and being thus repelled , may take the only course the resistance of the metal on the one hand , and attraction of cohesion on the other , will permit , viz. along the surface , to recede from the positive pole ; it may even act as a carrier to the positive electricity , which may adhere to it too strongly to be transmitted through the mercury , and when arrived at the opposite side of the globule may there , by the influence of the opposite pole , lose its exalted electrical state .
Such an explanation , however , is not without its difficulties ; and although another is open to us , that of considering the action which takes place at the common surface of two unequally conducting media as dependent upon a new power of the electric current , bearing some analogy to magnetic action , yet this , in the present state of the investigation , must be regarded not only as a bold , but vague hypothesis .

