262 [ Dec. 21 , Hon. R. J. Strutt .
A Chemically DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
The Kensington photographs shown on the Plate have been directly enlarged from the original negatives , the magnification being five-fold .
The upper illustration shows a comparison of the spectrum of September 30 , when the comet was an evening object , and that of October 31 , when it was a morning object .
The chief differences between the two are referred to in the paper .
The lower illustration is a comparison of a portion of the Kensington spectrum of Comet Brooks , and the Lick spectrum of Comet Daniel* ( 1907 d\ the latter having been taken with a slit spectrograph .
There can be little doubt that the two spectra are nearly identical , bunches of individual lines in the Lick spectrum being represented in the Kensington spectrum by wide and diffuse lines .
* 'Lick Bulletin , ' No. 135 .
A Chemically Active Modification ofi Nitrogen , Produced by the Electric Discharge.\#151 ; III.# By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Received December 21 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read February 8 , 1912 .
) S 1 .
Effect of Temperature on the Duration of Active Nitrogen .
In the first paper ( S 2 ) it was mentioned that a stream of glowing nitrogen led through a tube cooled in liquid air glowed out with increased brilliancy , and then became extinguished .
There is some ambiguity in the interpretation of this experiment , since the density of the gas is locally increased by cooling ; and increased density may ( and does ) make the nitrogen expend its glowing power more quickly .
A hermetically sealed bulb containing rarefied nitrogen was excited by the electrodeless discharge .
Allowed to expend itself at room temperature , the glow in this bulb was conspicuous for more than a minute .
But if the bulb was immersed completely in liquid air immediately after excitation , and after 15 seconds withdrawn and examined , it was found to be quite dark .
The glow was very brilliant as seen under the surface of the liquid air .
This experiment proves that the glow-transformation really occurs more quickly the lower the temperature , apart from changes of density .
The same experiment was repeated , substituting boiling water for liquid air .
Again the life of the glow was shortened , but this time its brilliancy * Part I , 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , vol. ' 85 , p. 219 ; Part II , 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , vol. 86 , p. 56 .
1911 .
] Active Modification of Nitrogen .
while it lasted was judged to be less than at ordinary temperatures .
This corresponds very well with the results formerly obtained by the flow method .
But now I feel able to offer more of an interpretation than was then possible .
There are two phenomena to be reckoned with .
One of these is a direct temperature effect on the glow-transformation .
The other is a destructive effect of the walls of the vessel on the glow , also variable with temperature .
There are various reasons for believing in the existence of the latter effect:\#151 ; 1 .
Certain substances , copper oxide , for instance , have been shown to be directly and immediately fatal to the glow , without themselves experiencing any change.* There is every probability that other solid surfaces , such as the glass walls , should , in a less degree , show the same effect .
2 .
When two similar glass bulbs are so thoroughly exhausted that no electrodeless discharge can pass , and then charged simultaneously with rarefied nitrogen and sealed off , the afterglow is about equally bright in each immediately after excitation .
When a few seconds have elapsed , there is almost always a marked difference in luminosity between the bulbs .
It is , in fact , impossible to get two bulbs which give the same rate of decay .
As the initial intensity of glow is the same in each , this is .most easily explained by supposing that the difference lies , not in the gas , but in the more unfavourable influence of the walls in the one case than in the other .
3 .
An ' experiment was made in which the glowing gas produced in one vessel was allowed to diffuse into two others , which were then shut off by a trap of sulphuric acid .
The glow was initially of the same intensity in each vessel .
The walls of one were wet with sulphuric acid , while those of the other were dry glass .
The decay in the latter was much the more rapid .
It cannot be doubted , therefore , that glass walls exercise some destructive action on the glow which sulphuric acid does not exert\#151 ; at all events , in the same degree .
Admitting , then , that the walls produce a destructive effect on the active nitrogen analogous to that produced by cupric oxide , it is allowable to assume , as a working hypothesis , that this is increased by rise of temperature .
The effect of cupric oxide , at all events , varies in that sense .
We are now in a position to interpret the observed effect of temperature on glowing nitrogen contained in a glass bulb .
When cooled to -180 ' C. , the effect of the walls in destroying the active nitrogen is , it is true , somewhat checked ; on the other hand , the glow-transformation in the gas occurs more rapidly at that temperature , and the glow is given out in greater intensity and for a briefer period .
* 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , vol. 85 , p. 226 .
264 Hon. R J. Strutt .
A Chemically [ Dec. 21 When the bulb is heated to 100 ' C. , the destructive effect of the walls is Fig. 1 .
The electrodeless discharge passes i almost immediately into the tube B. increased , and this prevents the glow lasting so long as at ordinary temperatures , in spite of the fact that the glow-transformation is retarded .
In the absence of the walls , the latter effect would make the glow feebler , but of increased duration .
This , however , is not experimentally realisable .
We have it on the authority of iSTernst* that no exception has been known to the rule that chemical change is accelerated by increase of temperature .
The change from active towards inert nitrogen which is going on in the afterglow seems , therefore , to be unique in contradicting this rule.f S 2 .
Effect of Density , Experiments on the duration of the glow with various densities of gas in the discharge vessel are difficult of interpretation , for two things are altered simultaneously\#151 ; the conditions of discharge and the conditions of afterglow . .
The effect of changed density can be examined to better advantage if the change is made when the gas is already glowing .
The apparatus shown in fig. 1 was used to effect this , n the vessel A. The afterglow diffuses The mercury column C , covered with * 'Theoretical Chemistry/ 1911 ed. , p. 679 .
t I desire to withdraw the too hasty suggestion made in Part I that the recombination of dissociated substances behaves in this way , and that this is a valid reason for regarding the active nitrogen as dissociated .
It is necessary to distinguish between the effect of temperature in changing the rate of reaction and its effect in changing the condition of equilibrium to which the reaction tends ( see Nernst , passim ) .
1911 .
] Active Modification of Nitrogen .
265 sulphuric acid* at D , can be raised so as to cut off the tube B from the rest of the vessel .
The gas in B can be made to glow more brightly when compressed .
In this condition it is more rapidly exhausted .
If , after compression , the volume is kept constant , the glow gradually fades out .
If it is wholly extinguished nothing is gained by compressing it further .
But if any faint luminosity remains , it may be greatly increased by further compression .
In this way the brilliance may be repeatedly restored by successive compressions .
The process has been traced up to pressures of 4 cm .
of mercury .
If , after compression to small bulk , the gas is again expanded , the luminosity is found to have disappeared , and tube B is now quite dark , though luminosity survives in the rest of the apparatus .
If communication between B and A is again opened , a fresh supply of faintly luminous gas quickly diffuses in , and can be made to glow brightly by a second compression .
This can be repeated several times without fresh excitation of the gas by discharge .
An alternative method of showing the effect of compression is more readily carried out , though less well adapted to a detailed study of the phenomena .
In this case gas instead of liquid is admitted to drive the active nitrogen up to one end of the vessel .
Fig. 2 .
I he electrodeless discharge passes in the vessel a ( fig. 2 ) , a bulb of 300 c.c. capacity .
The afterglow is developed , and may be allowed to die down to a very low intensity .
About 1 c.c. of nitrogen is then admitted * ^hen mercury was used uncovered , the glow was destroyed so soon as an attempt was made to compress it .
1 his must be due to a destructive action of the mercury surface .
I found formerly ( loc. cit. , p. 225 ) that a mercury surface at rest had no effect on the glow .
There must be some thin protective film on the surface of apparently clean mercury , which is broken up when it is moved .
266 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
A Chemically [ Dec. 21 from the space between the stopcocks and c. This enters a and compresses the still glowing gas to the end d. A bright flash of luminosity is seen , due to the compression of the faintly glowing nitrogen already in the bulb .
To repeat the experiment , communication may be opened to the cooled charcoal in e , which quickly restores the degree of vacuum desired .
The space between b and c is replenished from / .
The flash on compression is still more striking if cl is immersed in an unsilvered vacuum vessel containing liquid air .
In this way the intensity is increased by cooling as well as by compression .
In this form of experiment the nitrogen admitted merely acts as a piston compressing the glowing nitrogen , but not mixing appreciably with it .
If the increase of pressure is made in such a way as not to cause a concentration of the glowing gas , no increased brightness is obtained .
This may be realised in practice by gently admitting more nitrogen into a spherical bulb in which the glow has been generated , by means of a tube which projects into the centre , and is then provided with several jet-holes to distribute the entering gas uniformly in all directions .
The phenomena described are consistent with the following hypothesis :\#151 ; Active nitrogen may revert to the normal condition in two ways\#151 ; either by the action of the solid walls of the vessel , in which process no glow is emitted , or by its own spontaneous change , which is accompanied by the glow .
This is analogous to what is known to happen in other gaseous reactions\#151 ; the combination of oxygen and hydrogen , for instance .
The change may be a volume one , with luminosity , as when the mixture is exploded ; or it may occur at the surface of a solid catalyst , without luminosity , at comparatively low temperature.* Although no quantitative measurements have been made , the experiments suggest that , with definite conditions of excitation , and if the effect of the walls could be eliminated , the time-integral of the intensity of the glow would be constant , unaffected by changes in temperature and density of the gas after excitation .
The intensity of the glow is greatly dependent on these conditions , being increased by cooling or compression .
But it is only increased at the expense of the duration .
S 3 .
Theoretical Inferences .
, It may be assumed that , where the action of the walls may be neglected , the visual intensity of the glow is a measure of the rate at which transformation is occurring .
On this hypothesis , the compression phenomena described can give us valuable information as to the nature of the reaction from a * See Bone and Wheeler 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1906 , A , vol. 206 , p. 1 .
1911 .
] Active Modification of Nitrogen .
267 molecular standpoint .
If it is monomolecular , and the luminosity results from changes which can originate from a single molecule of modified nitrogen , then the rate of reaction will be proportional to the number of such systems in unit volume .
The intrinsic luminosity should therefore increase on compression .
But , if partial* decay is allowed to occur at small volume , and the volume then restored , the amount of modified nitrogen remaining will be the same , and the glow will have the same brilliancy as it would have had after the same time interval , if no change of volume had been made at all .
This is clear , without calculation , from the simple consideration that the transformation of each molecule of modified nitrogen is ( on this hypothesis ) independent , and that the number remaining after a given time cannot depend on whether the molecules have been brought close together or separated in the meanwhile .
We have seen , however , that this is not what is , in fact , observed .
More rapid transformation occurs at high concentrations , and , on restoring the volume after considerable compression , the glow is found to have ceased , showing transformation to be nearly complete .
The observations , therefore , contradict the hypothesis of a monomolecular reaction .
If we assume that the collision of two molecules of modified nitrogen is necessary to the reaction , then all is explained .
Compression makes such collisions more frequent , and a given mass of modified nitrogen is more quickly transformed at small volume .
The number of collisions is proportional to the square of the concentration ; we may expect , therefore , very rapid increase of brightness when the volume is diminished beyond a certain point , by a piston moving with uniform velocity in a cylinder , as in the experimental arrangement .
Since the active nitrogen is quickly used up at small volume , the luminosity will attain a maximum at a certain volume , the value of which depends on the velocity of the piston .
On expansion after extreme compression , luminosity will be no longer visible .
The present experiments do not in themselves decide whether two or more than two molecules are concerned in the reaction .
To do so , quantitative measurements of the law of decay would be necessary , and for this the action of the walls , which intervene in some way to cause a transformation without glow , would have to be eliminated .
This action does not obscure the main features of the phenomenon , but it stands in the way of close quantitative scrutiny .
On general grounds , however , the reaction would naturally be regarded as bimolecular , in the absence of evidence that it is more complex .
268 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
A Chemically [ Dec. 21 S 4 .
Comparison with Prof. H. F. Experiments .
Some very interesting experiments were described by Prof. H. F. Newall* in which he obtained brilliant luminosity from a sample of rarefied gas by compression after discharge .
It was the study of his paper which led me to many of the above experiments , and any merit there may be in them must be largely credited to inspiration from this source .
Prof. Newall was not able to specify precisely the nature of the gas with which his effect was obtained , or to reproduce it with certainty .
He says : " I can only say that oxygen , with traces of nitrogen and S02 , is the mixture I should begin with , if I wished to recover the conditions . . . .
" The spectrum given out on compression he identified with the negative glow spectrum of oxygen .
Prof. Newall kindly came to see my experiments , and , while agreeing that the effect was one of the same class as that which he discovered , was unable to admit their identity .
He is confident that his gas gave an afterglow with continuous spectrum , and that a discontinuous one was only developed on compression .
It seems best to state what I feel to be a difficulty .
In my experiments compression has the effect of making the gas give out more quickly radiation which it will give out in any case .
This is in sharp contrast with Prof. Newall 's view of his effect .
Again , my effect only occurs in pure nitrogen .
Prof. Newall 's effect , if it is really analogous , and gives an oxygen spectrum , should occur in pure oxygen .
Many careful , experiments with oxygen spectroscopically pure have convinced me that it does not develop a band spectrum-when compressed after discharge .
The spectroscopic test of purity in the case of oxygen is a severe one , for oxygen lines are easily outshone by impurities .
I cannot help thinking that something of the following kind may account for Prof. Newall 's result .
Suppose that he had nitrogen with some oxygen to begin with\#151 ; such a mixture would give an afterglow with continuous spectrum .
Passing the discharge undoubtedly sometimes causes an absorption of oxygen in such cases , as I have myself seen , f and the nitrogen remaining would show the peculiar afterglow spectrum , which would shine out brightly on compression .
It seems to me that this spectrum might easily be mistaken for the negative glow of oxygen , particularly as the observations had to be made quickly , and the nitrogen afterglow spectrum * ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' 1895 , vol. 9 , p. 295 .
t This may be due to formation of oxides of nitrogen and their absorption by alkaline matter on or in the glass surface .
1911 .
] Active Modification of Nitrogen .
had not been described at the time .
The bands of these spectra in the visual region are in the following positions :\#151 ; Oxygen negative glow ... ... ... .
5985 , 5870 , 5592 , 5248 .
Nitrogen afterglow ... ... ... . .
6252 , 5804 , 5407 , 5054 .
Certainly no other known gaseous spectrum would give so close a general resemblance to the nitrogen afterglow spectrum .
It may be added that many attempts to produce Prof. Newall 's effect with different gaseous mixtures containing oxygen have failed .
There is , indeed , a brightening of the nitric oxide afterglow by compression to one end of the tube , but the spectrum remains continuous .
S 5 .
Summary .
( 1 ) Active nitrogen emits its energy more quickly , and reverts sooner to ordinary nitrogen , if it is cooled .
This is apparently a unique instance of a chemical change accelerated by cooling .
( 2 ) If the glowing gas is compressed to small volume , it flashes out with great brilliance , and exhausts itself in so doing .
This proves that the glow-transformation is polymolecular , i.e. that more than one molecule must take part in it .
( 3 ) Active nitrogen may revert to ordinary nitrogen in two distinct ways .
One of those is a volume change , accompanied by glow , the other a surface action of the walls of the vessel , without glow .
This is analogous to the behaviour of oxy-hydrogen gas in its transformation to water , which may be a surface or volume effect , according to circumstances .
vol. lxxxvi.\#151 ; A. u

