The Croonian Lecture .
On the Structure of a muscular Fibre from which is derived its Elongation and Contraction .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read December 15 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part II .
p. 64 .
] In this paper , after attending to the striking analogy between the structure of a nervous and of a muscular fibre , as demonstrated by Mr. Bailer 's microscopical observations , Sir Everard adverts to an error into which he had fallen , in his former examination of the .
s muscle , dependino upon its having been previously boiled , by which the globules were altered , their colouring matter separated , and any connecting medium between them destroyed ; in such case , therefore , the skeleton only of the muscular fibre remained .
The muscular fibre which was now selected for examination , was taken from the fasciculi composing the great muscle that lies upon the back of the bullock 's neck ; it was examined within twenty-four hours after the animal 's death .
By immersion in water , an integral fibre was separated for inspection in the field of the microscope .
Its mechanism corresponded with that of the nervous fibre of a ganglion , but the globules were larger in the proportion of - , to T-S and -an parts of an inch .
The gelatinous matter by which the globules adhere together is less elastic than in the nervous fibre , so that the muscular fibre could not be extended to double its length without breaking .
The muscle of a trout exhibited the same appearance as that of the bullock 's neck , but the fibres were more brittle .
From the facts stated in this lecture , together with those formerly adduced respecting the structure of ganglions and nerves , Sir Everard observes , that they agree with muscles in consisting of single rows of globules united by a transparent elastic gelatinous matter ; the globules , however , differ in size , and the elastic medium is more easily elongated , and restores itself more readily in a nerve than in a muscle .
An illustrative drawing accompanies this lecture .

