A paper was read , entitled , " On some Electro-Nitrogurets .
" By Wm. Robert Grove , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. The author states that he has made many attempts to render per ?
manent the ammoniacal amalgam , and that he has succeeded in freezing it by means of solid carbonic acid , during which solidification , and also while in its solid state , it underwent no chemical change .
He subsequently attempted to procure a permanent compound by electrolyzing a solution of hydrochlorate of ammonia with an ex ?
tremely fusible alloy at the cathode ; but this attempt was unsuccessful .
It then occurred to him , that by using an oxidable metal at the anode , which could be revived in conjunction with nascent hydrogen and nitrogen at the cathode , one or both of these elements might be combined with the solid metal , and so form permanent compounds .
The experiment made in this manner with the metals zinc , cadmium , and copper , was perfectly successful .
A spongy mass collected at the cathode , which floated upon the liquid , and which , when washed and dried , was analysed by heating in a tube retort ; five grains of the zinc compound gave 0*73 of a cubic inch of perma ?
nent gas , which on examination proved to be nitrogen with onefourth hydrogen .
The same quantity of the cadmium compound gave 0*207 cubic inch of nitrogen with no admixture of hydrogen .
A like weight of the copper compound gave 0*107 of nitrogen .
No ammonia was evolved from either ; and the author is inclined to think that the hydrogen yielded by the zinc compound resulted from the reaction of the metal upon combined water .
The specific gra ?
vity of specimens of these substances which the author tried were respectively 4 , 6 , 4 , 8 , and 5 , 9 .
A mixed solution of chloride of gold and hydrochlorate of ammonia , electrolyzed with platinum elec ?
trodes , gave a black powder of the specific gravity 10*3 ; five grains of which , being heated , gave only 0*05 cubic inch of gas .
The author proceeds to observe , that the similarity in appearance and mode of formation of these compounds and of the mercurio-ammo ?
niacal amalgam , is strong evidence of identity of constitution , and that the non-permanence of the latter substance is due to the mobility of the mercury ; for if we place the compounds in similar circumstances , that is , solidify the mercurial one , or liquefy those of the other me ?
tals , the phenomenon are perfectly analogous .
The experiments also bear immediately upon those of Thenard , Savart , and others , where ammonia , passed over heated metals , was found to be decom ?
posed more completely by the oxidable than by the inoxidable me ?
tals , and to alter their physical characters without materially in ?
creasing their weight .
On examining papers connected with this subject , the author found that Mr. Daniell had cursorily noticed a deposit somewhat analogous to those here treated of , which was formed upon the negative plate of his constant battery when this was charged on the zinc side with hydrochlorate of ammonia , and the nature of which that gentleman observed was worthy of further examination , but had not had time to investigate .

