On the Action of the Sun 's Rays on Lithic Acid .
" By John Davy , M.D. , F.R.S. Lond. and Edinb .
The author , after adverting to the composition of guano , and remarking that its nitrogenous part differs from the urine of the seafowl , from which it is derived , chiefly in containing little or no lithate of ammonia , but a large proportion of the oxalate , describes an experiment made for the purpose of determining whether the oxalic acid existing in guano may not be formed from the lithic acid of the urine , in consequence of the operation of the sun 's rays .
The result of a comparative trial made with the urine of the whiteheaded Sea-Eagle , in one instance kept in darkness , in the other exposed to bright sunshine for many successive days , afforded an answer in the affirmative .
Whilst the urine of the Sea-Eagle , consisting chiefly of lithate of ammonia , kept in the dark , underwent no change , that exposed to light was materially changed , most of the lithate of ammonia had disappeared , its place was supplied by oxalate of ammonia , the peculiar odour of guano was acquired , and in part its brownish hue .
From considering the composition of the lithic and oxalic acids , the author infers , that in the conversion of the one into the other , oxygen is absorbed ; and , in confirmation , he mentions that although no change takes place when moist lithate of ammonia is exposed alone to a temperature of about 212 ?
, it is otherwise if so treated when mixed with black oxide of manganese , in which case oxalate of ammonia is formed , and also some brown colouring matter , not unlike that of guano ; and this colouring matter , he supposes , may appropriate to itself the excess of carbon and hydrogen , that is , such proportions of these substances in the lithic acid as are more than those required to form oxalic acid and ammonia .
Having always found in the South American guano more distinct traces of lithate of ammonia than in the African , he inquires whether the difference may not be owing to different states of atmosphere in the two regions ; in the one , the clouded state of the air impeding the sun 's rays ; in the other , the usually unclouded state interposing no obstacle to their full effect .
He inquires too , whether the circumstance of the comparatively rapid conversion of lithic acid into the oxalic under the influence of light , as witnessed in the experiment detailed , may not account for even recently formed guano being destitute of lithate of ammonia ; and he mentions an example in point , namely , a specimen he had received from the island of Ichabor being found with a large quantity of oxalate of ammonia , to contain no lithate of ammonia , -a specimen described as " having been scraped off a rock , where it was in a thin layer , and much exposed to the sun .
"

