XVI , An account of a new mode of performing the High Operation for the Stone .
By Sir EVERARD HOME , Bart. V. P. R. S. Read June i5th , 180o .
HAVIN performed the high operation for the stone in a manner less severe and less dangerous to the patient than that now in use , and by which the stone is more easily extracted , I am desirous of having it put upon record in the Philosophical Transactions , that at the same time it is made public , my claim to the first adoption of this mode may be established , which could not be so well done , were I to postpone the present communication .
For the previous information that led me to adopt this method , I beg to refer to the History of the High Operation for the Stone , published by Mr. CARPUE , to which publication I am indebted for the principle , and only claim the merit of having made , what must be allowed to be , a considerable improvement .
Case , and Operation .
JOHN RIVINGTON , aged 16 , who had suffered as long as he could remember from pain in the act of making water , and immediately after the whole quantity was evacuated , came into St. George 's Hospital on the igth of May , 1820 .
His conmplaint was found to be the stone , and I performed the operation on the 26th of the same month , in the following manner .
The boy was laid with his back upon a table , his feet supported on a chair .
An incision was made in the direction of the iinea alba between the pyramidales muscles , beginning at the pubes , and extending upwards four inches in length : it was continued down to the tendon .
The linea alba was then pierced close to the pubes , and divided by a probepointed bistory to the extent of three inches .
The pyramidales muscles had a portion of their origin at the symphisis pubis detached to make room .
When the finger was passed down under the linea alba , the fundus of the bladder was felt covered with loose fatty cellular membrane .
A silver catheter , open at the end , was now passed into the bladder by the urethra , and when the point was felt by the finger in the wound pressing up the fundus , a stilet that had been concealed was forced through the coats of the bladder , and followed by the end of the catheter .
The stilet was then withdrawn , and the opening through the fundus of the bladder enlarged toward the pubes by a probe-pointed bistory sufficiently to admit two fingers , and then the catheter was withdrawn .
The fundus of the bladder was held up by one finger , and the stone examined by the fore-finger of the right hand .
A pair of forceps with a net attached was passed down into the bladder , and the stone directed into it by the finger : the surface being very rough , the stone stuck upon the opening of the forceps , and being retained there by the finger , was extracted .
A slip of linen had one end introduced into the bladder , and the other was left hanging out of the wound , the edges of which were brought together by adhesive plaster .
A flexible gum catheter , without the stilet , was passed into the bladder by the urethra , and kept there by an elastic retainer surrounding the penis .
The patient was put to bed and laid upon his side , in which position the urine escaped freely through the catheter .
The calculus was of the roughest mulberry kind , was nearly spherical , and weighed one ounce .
As no blood had been lost in the operation , twelve ounces were taken from the arm .
Outlines of the different instruments are annexed .
Pi .
XXIV .
May 57 .
The patient had rather a restless night , but had some sleep ; the wound very tender : all the urine escaped by the catheter ; no tenderness on the abdomen .
The slip of linen was withdrawn , which gave great relief .
The author begs to remark , that leaving any such slip in the bladder is unnecessary , as no urine escaped through the upper wound ; it need only be left in the external wound , to prevent the formation of abscess .
May 28 .
The patient had some quiet sleep in the night ; pulse quick , bowels open , the wound less tender ; the urine escapes freely .
Had his bed completely changed : in the eventing the catheter was plugged up , and till cleared , the urine came by the wound .
The pulse was quick and full , the tongue white .
He lost ten ounces of blood , which upon standing became cupped and buffy .
May 29 .
The wound still tender .
Had not much sleep in the night .
The catheter being again plugged up , it was altogether withdrawn , none being at hand of a proper size to replace it ; and the time for the urine to diffuse itself being past .
The catheter had been made to retain its curve ; to do which its inside had less varnish , so that when soaked in 911 I urine it became spongy , and was readily clogged .
The .
catheters used in this operation should have the inside of the tube polished like the outside .
May 30 .
The patient had a good night .
The urine escaped by the wound , which looked healthy ; he is quite free from pain , and in all respects better .
A little urine came by the penis .
He was moved into another bed .
May g. His night not so good , but the pulse natural ; the tongue losing its whiteness ; the urine came for the most part by the wound , but in gushes of two or three tablespoonfuls at a time .
Sat up for ten minutes in a chair .
June i. He sat up an hour .
Urine still comes principally by the wound .
June 2 .
The patient is gradually gaining strength ; sat up twice in the day .
June 3 .
He sat up in a chair for upwards of two hours ; and while in the effort of having a stool , a considerable quantity of urine came by the urethra .
June 4 .
Some urine still came by the wound ; the abdominal muscles not acting , excepting when at stool .
After sitting up some hours a soft bougie was passed , and immediately withdrawn , to clear the urethra : it was followed by a few drops of urine .
June 5 .
Sat up nine hours ; and twice in a full stream made eight ounces of water ; from that time none escaped by the wound .
June 9 .
The wound has become superficial , and the bladder retains eight or ten ounces at a time .
It is to be remarked , that the stone had been an unusual number of years in the bladder , was of the roughest possible / Y%Z ' &amp; s.T , r.XMD CC CXX .
/ tr XTXI p. 2z3 .
_ , ... X3./ -3 '7 ' 171~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t r_)ij I , X / ; &lt; ^ I^ I4 -I l1II I ' X/ 2. .
~ .
___I I__ lII4 1^1 ) , / , a , .
, , a. kind , and yet so nild were the effects of the operation , that in ten days the bladder completely recovered its healthy actions .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIV .
This Plate contains five figures rrds of their real size .
Fig , i. The forceps closed by means of a spring , in which state they are to be introduced into the bladder ; the silk netbag in a collapsed state. .
Fig. 2 .
The forceps opened by pressing the spring handles , :and the silk net-bag extended to receive the stone , upon which the forceps are allowed to close , by removing the pressure from these handles .
The stone by falling to the bottom of the bag , becomes lower than the bent point of the forceps , and does not require an opening larger than itself to admit of being extracted .
The stone is to be pulled out by the upright handle .
Fig. 3 .
The representation of a portion of the penis with the catheter in the urethra , which is prevented from coming out by the retainer applied round the penis .
Fig. 4 .
The flexible gum catheter of the proper length to reach the lower posterior part of the bladder .
Fig. 5 .
The catheter retainer detached from the penis .

