II .
" On the Evidence of the existence of the Decennial Inequality in the Solar-diurnal Variations , and its non-existence in the Lunar-diurnal Variation of the Magnetic Declination at Hobarton .
" By Major-General SABINE , R.A. , D.C.L. , Treas .
and V.P.R.S. Received Nov. 17 , 1856 , ( Abstract .
) In a communication made to the Royal Society in the last Session , " On the Lunar-diurnal Magnetic Variation at Toronto , " the author had stated that he could discover no trace of the lunar influence of the decennial inequality which constitutes so marked a feature in the solar magnetic variations .
He has since read , in a memoir communicated to the Imperial Academy of Sciences at Vienna , entitled " On the Influence of the Moon on the horizontal component of the Magnetic Force , " that M. Kreil is of opinion that the observations of different years at Milan and Prague , when combined , would rather favour the contrary inference , viz. that the decennial inequality exists in the lunar as well as in the solar variations .
The author was led therefore to re-examine this question by the aid of the observations of the Declination at the Hobarton Observatory , which he considers to be remarkably well suited for the purpose , as they comprise eight years of consecutive hourly observation with unchanged instruments and a uniform system of observation , and number , exclusive of Sundays , Christmas-days , and Good Fridays , and occasional but very rare omissions , no less than 51,998 observations .
These observations have been examined by the processes already described in the author 's communication of last Session , and the results form the subject of the present paper , showing , in the author 's belief , decided and systematic evidence of the existence of the diurnal inequality , having its minimum epoch in 1843-1844 , and its maximum epoch five years later , in the mean diurnal variation due to the disturbances and in the more regular and ordinary solar-diurnal variation , and the absence of any trace of a similar inequality in the lunar-diurnal variation .

