The following papers were read:1 .
" On the Meteorology of England during the years 1847 , 1848 and 1849 .
" By James Glaisher , Esq. , F.R.S. At the commencement of this paper the author states , that during the three years ending December 1849 , meteorological observations on a uniform system have been taken at nearly forty different places , situated between the latitudes of 49-2 ?
and 550 , and between the longitudes of 1- ?
east and 5§§ west of Greenwich , at elevations varying from 30 to 350 feet above the level of the sea .
Many of the instruments which have been used he has himself selected , and prior to their use has determined their index-errors ; he has also visited the greater number of the stations , and examined their localities , the position of the instruments , &amp;c. The results from each station at the end of every quarter were forwarded to him ; these he tested in every possible way ; and those returns only which were found good enough to stand this examination were published at the end of every quarter in the Quarterly Reports of the Registrar-General .
The object of ' this paper , the author states , to be not only the deduction of mean values from the combination of all these published results , but also the deduction from them of formula , for the purpose of testing the accuracy of the observations generally , and thus ascertaining the degree of confidence which may be placed in meteorological observations as now carried on , and if possible the deduction of the errors of the readings of those instruments which had not been directly compared with standards .
He then gives the mean numerical values for the years 1847 , 1848 and 1849 in different parallels of latitude .
By comparison of these he deduces general formulae , and then compares the results as found from observation with those deduced from calculation , for every place of observation in the year 1849 .
Proceeding to the consideration of the difference between these two sets of numbers , he finds them to be mostly small ; and hence concludes that the insiramrents are generally good , and that the observations have been carefully made .
In three instances , however , he finds that the readings of the barometer are almost one-tenth of an inch too high , and he purposes to use the differences thus found as index-errors in the reduction of future observations made by these instruments , till their actual index-errors are determined by direct comparison with a standard barometer .
In five instances the mean temperature of the year from observations differed almost one degree from that found by calculation .
At one of these places only have the instruments been compared with standards , and hence it is very probable that the difference found at this place may be due to local causes , of which this difference is a measure .
He finds also , that , notwithstanding the decrease of temperature with increase of latitude , the temperature of the dew-point , at all places at about the same elevation , and distant from the influence of the sea near the south coast , is almost alike , and hence that the actual amount of water distributed in the atmosphere is the same : this result was unexpected , and if confirmed by subsequent observations will be important .
The author observes that the tables fully explain the peculiarity of the weather in the counties of Cornwall and Devon , and near the sea ; the periodical ranges of temperature in these localities being much less than in others , though they are found to enjoy only the mean annual temperatures due to their latitudes .
He remarks that the agreement between the observed and calculated values being found to be so close , the mean meteorological elements for the year 18-49 for any place in England may be computed , with a close approximation to the truth .
To his paper are appended some sheets of curves exhibiting the simultaneous results from all the places , and these show that if any two or more places be taken in the same latitudes , the curves are nearly parallel ; but , that if curves of places whose latitudes are different be compared , the one is found to be much bolder than the other .
-ie considers that these sheets show in a very satisfactory manner that very considerable confidence may be placed in the results , and that a great advance has taken place within the last few years in the care and attention to meteorological investigation .

