50 Dr. G. Gore .
[ Nov. 22 , Conclusions:\#151 ; 1 .
That the eecidiospores of Puccinia occur on hydrolapaihum , crispus , obtusifolius , con and Rheum , officinale .
4 2 .
That the secidiospores of Puccinia magnusiana have yet to be discovered if the Puccinia has any , which it probably has .
3 .
That the ADcidium on Rumex acetis not connected with either I Puccinia 'phragmitis or magnusiana .
IV .
" Some Relations of Heat to Voltaic and Thermo-Electric Action of Metals in Electrolytes .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) The author states that the object of this research was " to ascertain the thermo-electric action of a series of metals in particular liquids , and to examine the relations of the thermo-electric to the cliemico-electric behaviour of metals in electrolytes , and to ordinary chemical corrosion , and the source of the voltaic current .
" With this object , the thermo-electric tension series , also the chemico-electric tension series , at 60 ' and 160 ' F. of thirteen metals in solutions of twenty-two different salts , alkalies , and acids , were experimentally found , and are shown in two tables .
The same thermo- and chemico-electric series were also determined in solutions of different strengths of the same substances , and are also exhibited in two tables ; and the effects of difference of strength of liquid upon the orders of those series are inferred from the results .
Several other tables contain series of determinations of the electric potentials , in volts , of numerous thermo-electric , and also of chemico-electric couples of the same series of metals in the weak solutions and in the strong ones , and show the influence of strength of liquid upon thermo-electric and chemico-electric potential .
The measurements of potential were made by means of a new form of thermopile ( see " Proc. Birm .
Phil. Soc. , " vol. iv , Part 1 ) .
The influence of temperature upon the chemico-electric potential of those metals in the series of weak solutions , and also in the strong ones , at 60 ' and 160 ' F. , was also determined , and the results are given in several tables .
The " voltaic reversal points , " or temperatures at which the two metals of a voltaic pair balanced each other , and produced no current , in fifty-four different cases discovered during the research , were also determined and are given .
The metals and solutions employed were the same as those used in the previous series of experiments .
1883 .
] Action of Metajls in Electrolytes .
The potentials of voltaic currents with the same series of metals in the weak solutions at 60 ' F. were also determined in seventy-five instances , in each case in thermo-electric terms of one of the same metals in the same liquid ; and the number of degrees of difference of temperature of the particular thermo-electric couple required to balance the corresponding voltaic couple in each instance is given in a table .
A series of experiments was also made to determine whether the difference in potential , caused by heating a voltaic couple , is completely accounted for by the electromotive forces produced by the same rise of temperature of the same metals separately in the same liquids , and the results are shown in a table .
With considerable difficulty , a series of about 120 determinations were also made of rates of ordinary chemical corrosion of the same metals in solutions of the same substances at 60 ' F. , and a second series of about seventy-five determinations with the same metals and liquids at 160 ' F. were also made , and the results are given in two tables .
These and other results are contained in a series of twenty tables ; and by comparing the contents of these various tables with each other , and also by means of additional experiments , a number of general conclusions were obtained .
The following are the conclusions , and the chief results arrived at by these means .
It is shown that when metals in liquids were heated , they were more frequently rendered positive than negative in the pr oportion of about 2'8 to 1 ; and that while the proportion in weak solutions was about 2'29 to 1 , in strong ones it was about 3'27 to 1 ; and this accords with their thermo-electric behaviour as metals alone .
The thermo-electric order of metals in liquids was , with nearly every solution , whether weak or strong , widely different from the thermoelectric order of the same metals alone .
A conclusion previously arrived at was also confirmed , viz. , that the liquids in which the hot metal was thermo-electro-positive in the largest proportion of cases , were those containing highly electro-positive bases , such as the alkali metals .
The thermo-electric effect of gradually heating a metal in a liquid was sometimes different from that of suddenly heating it , and was occasionally attended by a reversal of the current .
Degree of strength of liquid greatly affected the thermo-electric .order of the metals .
Increase of strength usually and considerably increased the thermo-electric potential of metals thermo-electronegative in liquids , and somewhat decreased that of those positive in liquids .
The electric potential of metals thermo-electro-positive in weak liquids was usually about 3'87 times , and in strong ones 1'8 7 times as great as of those which were negative .
The potential of th e ^strongest thermo-electric couple , viz. , that of aluminium in weak \#163 ; 2 Dr. G. Gore .
[ Nov. 22 , .
solution of sodic diphosphate , was 066 volt for 100 F. degrees , difference of temperature , or about 100 times that of a bismuth and antimony couple .
Heating one of the metals , either the positive or negative , of a. voltaic couple usually increased the electric difference , making most metals more positive and some more negative , whilst heating the-second one also usually neutralised to a large extent the effect of heating the first one .
The electrical effect of heating a voltaic couple was nearly wholly composed of the united effects of heating each of the-two metals separately , but was not , however , exactly the same , because whilst in the former case the metals were dissimilar and heated to the same temperature , in the latter they were similar but heated to different temperatures :\#151 ; also , when heating a voltaic pair , , the heat was applied to two metals , both of which were previously electro-polar by contact with each other as well as by contact with the liquid , but when heating one junction of a metal and liquid thermo-couple , the metal had not been previously rendered electro-polar by contact with a different one , and was therefore in a somewhat different electric state .
When a voltaic combination in which the positive metal was thermo-negative and the negative one was thermo-positive was heated , the electric potential of the coupla diminished , notwithstanding that the internal resistance was decreased. .
Magnesium in particular , also zinc and cadmium , were greatly depressed in elect ro-motive force in electrolytes by elevation of temperature .
Reversals of position of the two metals of a voltaic couple in the tension series by rise of temperature , were usually due to one of the two metals increasing in electro-motive force faster than the other , and in many cases to one metal increasing and the other decreasing in electro-motive force , but only in a few cases was it a result of simultaneous but unequal diminution of potential of the two metals .
W ith eighteen different voltaic couples , by rise of temperature from 60 ' to 160 ' F. , the electro-motive force in twelve cases-was increased , and in six decreased ; and the average proportions of increase for the eighteen instances was 0'1 volt for the 100 F. degrees of elevation .
A great difference in chemical composition of the liquid was attended by a great change in the order of the volta tension series ; and the differences of such order in two similar liquids , such as solutions of hydric chloride and potassic chloride , were much greater than in those produced in either of those liquids by a difference of 100 ' F-of temperature .
Difference of strength of solution , like difference of composition or of temperature , altered the order of such series with nearly every liquid , and the amount of such alteration produced by an increase of four or five times in the strength of the liquid was rather less than that caused by a difference of 100 F. degrees in temperature1883 .
] Action of Metals Electrolytes .
Whilst also variation of strength of liquid caused only a moderate amount of change of order in the volta tension series , it produced more than three times that amount of change in the thermo-electric -tension series .
The usual effect of increasing the strength of the liquid upon volta-electro-motive force was to considerably increase it , but its effect upon thermo-electro-motive force was to largely decrease it .
The degree of potential of a metal and liquid thermo-couple was not always exactly the same at the same temperatures during a rise as during a fall of temperature ; this is analogous to the variation of melting and fusing points of bodies under such conditions , and also to that of supersaturation of a liquid by a salt , and is probably due to some hindrance to change of molecular movement .
The rate of ordinary chemical corrosion of each metal varied in .every different liquid ; in each solution also it differed with every .different metal .
The most chemically positive metals were usually the most quickly corroded , and the corrosion of each metal was usually the fastest with the most acid solutions .
The rate of corrosion was dependent both upon the nature of the metal and upon that of the liquid , and was limited by the most feebly active of the two\#151 ; usually the electrolyte .
The order of rate of corrosion of metals also .differed in every different liquid .
The more dissimilar the chemical .characters of two liquids , the more diverse usually was the order of rapidity of corrosion of a series of metals in them .
The order of rate .of simple corrosion in any of the liquids examined differed largely from that of degree of chemico-electric , and still more from that of thermo-electro-motive force .
Corrosion was not the cause of pure thermo-electric action of metals in liquids .
Out of fifty-eight cases of rise of temperature the rate of ordinary \#166 ; corrosion was increased in every instance except one , and that was only a feeble exception ; the increase from 60 ' to 160 ' F. with different metals was extremely variable , and was from 1*5 to 321*6 times .
Whether a metal increased or decreased in thermo-electro or chemico-.electro-motive force by being heated , it increased in rapidity of corrosion .
The proportions in which the most corroded metal was also the most thermo-electro-positive one was 65*87 per cent , in liquids at 60 ' F. , and 69*12 in the same at 160 ' F. ; and the proportion in which it was the most chemico-electro-positive at 60 F. was 84*44 per cent. , and at 160 ' F. 80*77 per cent. The proportion of cases therefore in which the most chemico-electro-negative metal was the most corroded one increased from 15*56 to 19*23 per cent , by a rise of temperature of 100 F. degrees .
Comparison of these proportions shows that corrosion usually influenced in a greater degree chemico-electric than thermoelectric actions of metals in liquids .
Not only was the relative number of cases in which the volta negative was the most corroded , increased by rise of temperature , but also the average relative loss by \#171 ; \gt ; 4 Action of Metals in Electrolytes .
[ Nov. 22 , .
corrosion of the negative to that of the positive one was increased from 311 to 6'32 .
The theory most consistent with all the various results and conclusions is a kinetic one .
That metals and electrolytes are throughout their mass in a state of molecular vibration .
That the molecules of these substances being frictionless bodies in a frictionless medium , and their motion not being dissipated by conduction or radiation , they continue incessantly in motion until some cause arises to prevent them .
That each metal ( or electrolyte ) when unequally heated has , , to a certain extent , an unlike class of motions in its differently heated parts , and behaves in those parts somewhat like two metals ( or electrolytes ) , and those unlike motions are enabled through the intermediate conducting portion of the substance to render these parts electro-polar .
That every different metal and electrolyte has a different class of motions , and in consequence of this they also by contact alone with each other at the same temperature become electro-polar .
The molecular motion of each different substance also increases at a different rate by rise of temperature .
This theory is equally in agreement with the chemico-electric results .
In accordance with it , when in the case of a metal and an .
electrolyte the two classes of motions are sufficiently unlike , chemical corrosion of the metal by the liquid takes place , and the voltaic current originated by inherent molecular motion under the condition , of contact , is maintained by the portion of motion lost by the metal and liquid during the act of uniting together .
Corrosion , therefore , is an effect of molecular motion , and is one of the modes by which that motion is converted into electric current .
In accordance with this theory , if we take a thermo-electric pair consisting of a non-corrodible metal and an electrolyte ( the two being already electro-polar by mutual contact ) , and heat one of their points of contact , the molecular motion of the heated end of each , substance at the junction is altered ; and as thermo-electric energy in such combinations usually increases by rise of temperature , the metal and liquid , each singly , usually becomes more electro-polar .
In such a case the unequally heated metal behaves to some extent like two metals , and the unequally heated liquid like two liquids , and so the thermo-electric pair is like a feeble chemicO'electric one of two metals in two liquids , but without corrosion of either metal .
If the metal and liquid are each when alone thermo-electro-positive , and if when in contact the metal increases in positive condition faster than the liquid by being heated , the latter appears thermo-electro-negative , but if less rapidly than the liquid , the metal appears thermo-electronegative .
As also the proportion of instances is small in which metals that are positive in the ordinary thermo-electric series of metals only , .
On a " Rennet " Ferment .
1883 .
] become negative in the metal and liquid ones ( viz. , only 73 out of 286 in weak solutions , and 48 out of the same number in strong ones ) , we may conclude that the metals more frequently than the liquids have the greatest thermo-electric influence , and also that the relative largeness of the number of instances of thermo-electro-positive metals in the series of metals and liquids , as in the series of metals only , is partly a consequence of the circumstance , that rise of temperature usually makes substances , metals in particular , electro-positive .
These statements are also consistent with the view that the elementary substances lose a portion of their molecular activity when they unite to form acids or salts , and that electrolytes therefore have usually a less degree of molecular motion than the metals of which they are composed .
The current from a thermo-couple of metal and liquid , therefore , may be viewed as a united result of difference of molecular motion , first of the two junctions , and second of the two heated ( or cooled ) substances ; and in all cases , both , of thermo- and chemico-electric action , the immediate true cause of the current is the original molecular vibrations of the substances , whilst contact is only a static permitting condition .
Also , that whilst in the case of thermo-electric action , the sustaining cause is molecular motion supplied by an external source of heat , in the case of chemico-electric action it is the motion lost by the metal and liquid , when chemically uniting together .
The direction of the current in thermo-electric cases appears to depend upon which of the two substances composing a junction increases in molecular activity the fastest by rise of temperature , or decreases the most rapidly by cooling .
In a separate paper " On some Relations of Chemical Corrosion to Voltaic Currents , " the author has investigated the amounts of external voltaic current produced by the corrosion of known weights of various metals at atmospheric temperature .
V. " On a 'Rennet ' Ferment contained in the Seeds of Withania coagnlans .
" By Sheridan Lea , M.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge ; Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received November 20 , 1883 .
The Report of the Royal Gardens at Kew for 1881 contains abstracts of correspondence , in which it was pointed out that , in order to introduce a cheese-making industry in India , some vegetable substitute must be found for the ordinary animal rennet , since cheese made with the latter is unsaleable among the natives .
In response to the above \#166 ; " Surgeon-Major Aitchison brought to the notice of the autho-

