II .
' Description of a new Optical Instrument called the 'Stereotrope .
' By VILLIAM THIOMAS SHAW , Esq. Communicated by WARREN DE LA RUE , Esq. Received Dec. 6 , 1860 .
This instrument is an application of the principle of the stereoscope to that class of instruments variously termed thaumatropes , phantascopes , phenakistoscopes , &amp;c. , which depend for their results on " persistence of vision .
" In these instruments , as is well known , an object represented on a revolving disc , in the successive positions it assumes in performing a given evolution , is seen to execute the movement so delineated ; in the stereotrope the effect of solidity is superadded , so that the object is perceived as if in motion and with an appearance of relief as in nature .
The following is the manner in which I adapt to this purpose the refiacting form of the stereoscope , Having procured eight stereoscopic pictures of an object-of a steam-engine for example-in the successive positions it assumes in completing a revolution , I affix them , in the order in which they were taken , to an octagonal drum , which revolves on a horizontal axis beneath an ordinary lenticular stereoscope and brings them one after another into view .
Immediately beneath the lenses , and with its axis situated half an inch from the plane of sight , is fixed a solid cylinder , 4 inches in diameter , capable of being moved freely on its axis .
This cylinder , which is called the eye-cylinder , is pierced throughout its entire length ( if we except a diaphragm in the centre inserted for obvious reasons ) by two apertures , of such a shape , and so situated relatively to each other , that a transverse section of the cylinder shows them as cones , with their apices pointing in opposite directions , and with their axes parallel to , and distant half an inch from , the diameter of the cylinder .
Attached to the axis of the eyecylinder is a pulley , exactly one-fourth the size of a similar pulley affixed to the axis of the picture-drum , with which it is connected by means of an endless band .
The eye-cylinder thus making four revolutions to one of the picture-drum , it is evident that the axes of its apertures will respectively coincide with the plane of sight four times in one complete revolution of the instrument , and that , consequently , vision will be permitted eight times , or once for each picture .
The cylinder is so placed that at the time of vision the large ends of the apertures are next the eyes , the effect of which is that when the smtall ends pass the eyes , the axes of the apertures , by reason of their eccentricity , do not coincide with the plane of sight , and vision is therefore impossible .
If , however , the position of the cylinder be reversed end for end , vision will be possible only when the small en(ds are next the eyes , and the angle of the aperture will be found to subtend exactly the pencil of rays coming from a picture , which is so placed as to be bisected at right angles by the plane of sight .
Hence it follows that , the former arrangement of the cylinder being reverted to , the observer looking along the upper side of the aperture will see a narrow stri ) extending along the top of the picture ; then , moving the cylinder on and looking along the lower side of the aperture , he will see a similar strip at the bottom of the picture ; consequently , in the intermediate positions of the aperture , the other parts of the picture will have been projected on the retinaT .
The width of these strips is determined by that of the small ends of the apertures , which measure '125 inch ; and the diameter of the large ends is 15 inch , the lenses being distant 9 inches from the pictures .
The picture-drum being caused to revolve with the requisite rapidity , the observer will see the steam-engine constantly before him , its position remaining unchanged in respect of space , but its parts will appear to be in motion , and in solid relief , as in the veritable objecto The stationary appearance of the pictures , notwithstanding the fact of their being in rapid motion , is brought about by causing their corresponding parts to be seen , respectively , only in the same part of space , and that for so short a time that while in view they make no sensible progression .
As , however , there is an actual progression during the instant of vision , it is needful to take that fact into account-in order that it may be reduced as far as practicable-in regulating the diameter of the eye-cylinder , and of the apertures at their small ends ; and the following are the numerical data involved in the construction of an instrument with the relative proportions given above : The circumference of picture-drum=22'5 inches ( A ) .
The circumference of eye-cylinder= 12 inches x4 revolutions=48 inches ( B ) .
The diameter of apertures at large ends= 1-5 inch ( C ) .
The diameter of apertures at small ends= '125 inch ( D ) .
While the large end is passing the eye , the picture under view progresses 1 B5 ( C ) of 22-5 ( A ) , or '703 inch .
This amount of progression ( '703 in .
) , if perceived at one and the same instant , would be utterly destructive of all distinctness of definition ; but it is evident that the total movement brought under visual observation at any one moment is '125 ( D ) of -703 inch , or 1-5 ( C ) *058 inch .
This movement must necessarily occasion a corresponding slurring , so to speak , of the images on the retina ; and the fact of such slurring not affecting , to an appreciable extent , the distinctness of definition , seems to be referable to a faculty which the mind has of correcting or disregarding certain discrepant appearances or irregularities in the organ of vision ; as a further illustration of which I may cite the fact , mentioned by Mr. Warren De la Rue in his " ' Report on Celestial Photography , " that the retinal image of a star is , at least under some atmospheric conditions , made up of " a great number of undulating points , " which , however , the mind rightly interprets as the effect of the presence before the eye of a single minute object .
That this corrective power is , as might be supposed , very limited , may be proved experimentally by this instrument ; for if the small ends be enlarged in only a slight degree , so as to increase this slurring on the retinae , a very marked diminution in clearness of definition is the immediate result .
That form of the stereotrope , in which Professor Wheatstone 's reflecting stereoscope is made use of , and which is better adapted for the exhibition of movements that are not only local but progressive in space , it is needless to describe here , because the principles it involves are essentially the same as those which are stated above .

