]\gt ; Theory of New Form of the Charnber Crank Chain .
By DR. H. S. HELE-SHAW , F.B.S. ( Received May 7 , \mdash ; Read May 23 , 1912 .
) This particular crank mechanism in which the crank itself is fixed and the two arms rotate about the fixed crank ends , named by Reuleaux the " " rotating slider crank\ldquo ; rotirende kurbelschiefe and by Kennedy the " " turning block has been , as Reuleaux pointed out , basis of more attempted applications than any other mechanisnL Notwithstanding all these attempts it has had little if any practical success , at any rate for rotary pumps or motors .
The reason for this want of success is largely due to the difficulty of making running joints for holding the pressure of fluids with any device except lower pairs of either the revolute or the cylindrical prism form .
The following note gives the theory of a new modification of this mechanism , which , apart from any useful practical application it may have , appears to be of some scientific interest .
The great theoretical of this type of mechanism is that the parts revolve about two fixed centres and very nearly balanced mechanism results .
There is another advantage which is not even pointed out by Reuleaux and certainly was not applied in any of the examples given by him , namely , that the crank being fixed , it is possible conveniently to vary its stroke whilst the mechanism is in operation , and consequently to vary by a continuous process the volume of fluid taken in and discharged in each cycle of the machine .
In recent years attempts have been made to take adyantage of this property such as in the interesting mechanism of Rigg , but all the proposals hitherto suggested differ in various ways from the particular device which is the subject of this communication .
In order to see what difficulties have to be overcome when a mechanism of this type is employed to deal with a fluid so as to vary the volume in each cycle , the mechanism itself and the changes given to it must be analysed .
Fig. 1 , in which the lettering and rotation of Reuleaux is adopted , shows in certain positions the best known form of the chamber crank chain .
and are four cases in which not only the volume but the direction of flow is changed , Case being one in which no volume is discharged at all .
It is quite clear that these changes are difficult to effect as the crank is actually turning .
In Fig. 2 the crank is fixed , the same lettering being 'Theoretische Kinematik , ' 1st edit .
, vol. 2 , p. 359 .
Theory of New Form of the Crank Chain .
retained , and it will be evident that it is now possible to vary the stroke , and with it the volume of discharge whilst rotation is taking place .
With a single chamber the volume , if the fluid is incompressible , would , of course , be of an intermittent character .
Fig. 3 shows how by multiplying the fundamental mechanism this intermittency can be reduced to any required extent , and a uniform flow secured which can be varied as required .
The formula of the mechanism in fig. 3 is 4 showing that it is driven by the link which has four arms in one piece , the cylinders having a certain amount of angular motion relative to each other .
This device constitutes the fundamental mechanism of Rigg 's rine .
In this case the difficulty of the valve action ( of which not one of Reuleaux 's examples gives a practical form ) is surmounted by inverting the cylinders , so that the pressure comes on the inner instead of the outer side of the pistons , thus making it possible to use a central valve system .
Instead of having the various cylinders with relative angular motion , it may be more convenient to have the cylinders in one piece , and the coupler or connecting rod jointed .
This further modification is shown in fig. 4 , in which the formula has changed to 4 , since the mechanism is now driven by the revolving cylinder body instead of by the coupler .
If a central valve is required with this modification , a serious difficulty arises with regard to the operation of the rods ; in fact , the coupler rods themselves in this particular form could not be practically employed .
Thus in the Gnome engine , used for aeroplanes , separate valves are placed ab the end of the cylinders , the fluid being on the outside instead of the inner side of the piston .
In order to get over the difficulty of the coupler rods and obtain a central valve , the next step shown in fig. 5 must be taken .
Here the path of the pistons is maintained by providing a circular guiding surface , so that their movement is exactly the same as it would be under the action of the couplers .
In fig. 5 the guide blocks shown are used instead of the couplers , to compel the pistons to travel in the required path .
The formula , it will be observed , remains the same , notwithstanding the changed appearance of the mechanism , since nothing more than the common device , of an element , has taken place .
Although kinematically the effect is the same , a very serious practical difficulty has resulted , since the friction in the guide blocks , especially with a high speed of rotation and a high pressure of the working fluid , renders such a mechanism useless .
In order to get over this difficulty , instead of using guide blocks , rollers or wheels traversing the circular path may be provided , but such a modification will only be of Dr. H. S. Heal .Shaw .
[ May 7 , \mdash ; Fiq .
{ .
Fig. 5 .
ellccf .
Fig. 5 .
le effcc ' / Fig. Fig. 4 .
FIg .
6 .
Infigs .
4 and 5 the coeflcient 4 has been accidentauy omitted before the expression in brackets .
Theory of a New Form of the Chamber Crank .
65 use in the case of low pressures and low speeds .
For practical purposes , when high speed and high pressure are usually required , some other modification is necessary .
Suppose , instead of to use rollers , the guide blocks themselves are retained , and the ring or guide forming the path of the guide blocks allowed itself to revolve , being carried about its proper centre on ball or roller bearings , then instead of the slippers or guides rubbing in frictional contact round the whole circular path , they carry round with them their own guide .
The circular revolving guide may be termed \ldquo ; floating guide ring or , more shortly , " " floating ring There must , of course , be a certain relative sliding in this floating ring because of the relative angular velocity of the respective coupler rods , whose effect may still be supposed , although they have themselves actually disappeared .
This relative angular movement , however , is dependent entirely on the throw of the crank ; if the crank stroke is reduced this relative movement .
be correspondingly reduced , and hence the sliding movement of the slippers may be reduced to as small an amount as desired .
The importance of the new mechailism is evident when it is remembered bhat at high pressures the stroke itself usually becomes very small indeed ; hence the friction is not only reduced on account of the actual movement , but also very largely reduced because the viscous friction of the material of the slippers is a function of relative velocity of the surfaces in contact .
This , however , is not the only result which arises from this device .
The chief practical use of a variable stroke is the transmission of power , oil being used as the working fluid , and in a contrivan ce of the kind the working parts usually revolve in oil , which fills the outer case and ensures complete lubrication .
Now the action of this oil , whether the case is completely full or not , although not very important at low speeds , is very serious at high speeds , and the turbulent motion of the oil is capable of absorbing and thereby wasting a large proportion of the available energy of the machine .
If , however , the rotating guide ring shown in fig. 5 is made to form a rotating case , the oil is carried round with the revolving portion , the outer cover being kept empty , and the churning action entirely avoided .
Analysis of the two cases reveals their difference .
In fig. eccentricity of guide ring , radius of centre of guide pin , radius of slipper path ( i.e. rubbing surface ) , pressure on each plunger , centrifugal force on plnngers , number of plungers , VOL. LXXXVII.\mdash ; A. Dr. H. S. Hele-Shaw .
[ May 7 , In fig. constant for machine , angular velocity , coefficient of friction , frictional loss per revolution due to rubbing , loss per revolution due to resistance of fluid ( i.e. churning ) .
Then Case I ( with fixed guide ring ) , Case II ( with floating guide ring ) , approx. , approx. , This analysis of the work lost in the two cases reveals at once how gleat is the saving effected by the floating guide ring .
This is clear from the fact that not only are and much greater than when is at its maximum value , but because beyond this is continually reduced as the stroke is decreased and the pressure increased .
The combined ratio but the expression is not very simple or one which enables the ratio of losses to be easily seen .
The gain is , however , at once evident by comparing separately the losses due respectively to slipper friction and ( b ) churning .
Thus ( b ) In sn example of which experimental results are afterwards given , if , then Case ( a ) , Q. \ldquo ; ( ) , , , 1912 .
] Theory of Form of the Charnber Crank .
67 Fig. 7 .
ROKE Fig. 9 .
Fig. 8 .
SQ .
N STROKC Fi .
IO .
Theory of a New Form of the Chain .
As a matter of fact , these expressions do not take into account a certain amount of friction which is common to both systems , that is the fi'iction of the pistons and the friction of the fluid in the passages and ports .
In addition to these , there is the comparatively small amount of friction of the roller or ball bearing on which the floating ring revolves , though the last-mentioned friction is almost negligible .
A general expression may be obtained without much difficulty which would approximately represent the ratio of the loss with and without the rino , but this result has been more satisfactorily arrived at by actually testilg the input of the work from an electric motor and by measuring the discharge of an actual pump at different pressures , the pump having a floating guide ring , which could be either fixed or allowed to revolve freely , and in which either slippers or rollers could be used .
The pump with which the experiments were made was similar to the one which will be exhibited at the May Soiree of the Society by the kind permission of the Compayne Company .
This shows the actual details by which the floating of the guide ring is eflected , but which details are not dealt with in this note .
The results of the experiments are shown plotted in figs. 7 , 8 , 9 , and 10 .
Figs. 7 and 9 give the input and output under the different conditions for full stroke and half stroke respectively .
Figs. 8 and 10 show.the same results put in the form of efficiency curves .
The results are so clearly indicated by these diagrams that no further comment is necessary .
It is clear that as the stroke is diminished the relative effect is llagnified until at last when there is a very small stroke ( and that is the case where the greatest pressures are likely to be in operation ) we have , in the one without the floating ring , nearly all the work absorbed in friction , and the friction losses at their maximum , whereas in the case of the ring the friction is reduced to a minimum .
This effect is indicated in a striking way by the fact that whereas in fig. 7 , with the floating ring , the curve of input is parallel to the curve of output , without the floating , the curve diverges from it as the are increased , and the divergence becomes much more marked in the case of the diagram representing the effect with the smaller strokes , that is to say in fig. 9 .
Comparing the two mechanisms in which slippers are used , the diagrams show thab it requires more than twice as much power to operate a chamber crank chain of this kind to produce a given discharge of liquid at a given pressure without the floating ring than with it .
To put it another way , the efficiency at the best , without the floating ring , is not , at a reasonable working pressure , higher than 40 per cent. in one case , rising to 83 per cent. in the other , while with the stroke and pressure reduced , the efficiency without the floating ring may fall , even under working Influence of Condenseron Working of Ruh.mkorff Coil .
69 conditions , as low as 10 per cent. , a loss of nine-tenths of the whole energy available .
The thanks of the author are due to Mr. T. E. Beacham , B.Sc. , for his assistance in connection with this paper .
An Experimental of the Influence of the Condcnser on the Working of a hmkorff Coil , together a Practical Outcome thereof By WILLIAM HAMILTON WILSON .
( Communicated by Sir Oliver Lodge , F.R.S. Received March 8 , \mdash ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) The opinion most generally held the action of the condenser in a Ruhmkorff coil seems to have been that the condenser is by the falling netic field immediately after interruption , and discharges back through the primary winding , setting up oscillations which cause the netism to fall very rapidly .
The subject has been dealt with matheatically by Prof. Colley and others .
* Lord Rayleigh has shown that very long secondary sparks can be obtained without the use of a condenser , by interrupting the primary current with great rapidity , such as by the severing of a wire with a rifle bullet .
Walter used a cathode ray deflected by the magnetic field to show that the primary current is with a frequency depending upon the condenser capacity , and that the best results are obtained by adjusting the condenser capacity to a certain critical value .
Oscillograph curves of primary current and secondary E.M.F. have been obtained by Armagnat and others .
An oscillograph method of such culves is described by Wittmann , S and Zenneck describes a method using a Braun tube To completely understand what takes place it is necessary to have curves of secondary E.M.F. and of the currents in all parts of the primary system , with ' Wied .
Ann 1891 , vol. 44 , p. 109 .
' Ann. der Phys 1897 , vol. 62 .
Kellyon , ' The Induction ) ' S 'Ann .
der Phys 1904 , vol. 12 .
' Ann der Phys ] , vol. 13 .

