On the Intimate Struct u re of Crystals .
" On the Intimate Structure of Crystals.\#151 ; IV .
Cubic Crystals with Octahedral Cleavage .
" By W. Sollas , D.Sc .
, LL.l ) .
, b.L.S. Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
'Received and read March 17 , 1898 .
Revised December 16 , 1900 .
Diamond.\#151 ; Carbon , m. w. , 12 ; sp. gr. , 3*51 ; m. v. , 3 42 .
I here is good reason to believe , as will appear as we proceed , that the atoms of carbon , of which diamond is composed , are disposed in the closest possible order .
This mode of disposition has been described and figured by Mr. Barlow* in his work on " A Mechanical Cause of Homogeneity of Crystals .
" Each atom is in contact with twelve others , and in planes normal to the trigonal axes of the cube , which they are supposed to form : they lie in closest contact , each sphere touching dx others in the plane .
The volume of the atoms may be most readily found by dividing the atomic volume by 1*35 ; it is 2-54 , the diameter of the atom is 1-693 , and its gross volume 4-851 .
The cleavage of such a closest packed assemblage as we attribute to diamond should be octahedral , for it is in planes parallel to the faces of an octahedron that the atoms lie closest together .
The characteristic cleavage of diamond is thus readily accounted for not so , however , its remarkable hemihedry .
This has still to be explained .
Diamond is tetrahedral , and to account for this , we may suppose its constituent atoms to be associated in groups of four , the centre of each lying at the solid angle of a tetrahedron , or we may recall the tetrahedral nature of the carbon atom , and attribute the hemihedry of diamond to an appropriate disposition of the poles of its atoms .
Whichever view is adopted , it will make no difference to the subsequent treatment of the question ; in either case , we have to consider the manner in which tetrahedra may be arranged so as to give rise to hemihedral symmetry .
Two kinds of arrangement are possible , in both , the trigonal axes of the tetrahedra lie on the trigonal axis of a cube , but in one the tetrahedra are oppositely , in the other similarly , orientated .
On bringing the former case under the notice of Mr. Barlow , he informed me that it was new to him , and subsequently he pointed out that the symmetry resulting from it is holo-hedral , t while the arrangement in the second case is hemihedral ; we must accordingly suppose that in diamond the constituent tetiahedia , whether groups of atoms or the atoms themselves , are all similarly orientated .
* ' Sci. Proc. Rov .
Pub .
Soc. , ' vol. 8 ( N.S. ) , p. 533 , 1897 .
t This arrangement is described by Mr. Barlow in the ' Sci. Proc. Roy .
Dub .
Soc. , ' loc. cit. , under the heading C ( b ) , p. 542 ; the alternative arrangement is piven under C ( a ) .
Dr. W. J. Sollas .
In treating of diamond , the question of dimorphism naturally presents itself ; we proceed therefore to the consideration of graphite .
As the recorded values for the specific gravity of graphite differ widely from one another , I made a fresh determination of this constant , using the graphite obtained as a bye-product in the manufacture of carborundum .
This was kindly given me by Professor Miers .
The graphite was introduced into a diffusion column of methylene iodide and benzene ; it floated at a level of specific gravity 2 .
286 , as given by small glass indicators .
The molecular volume of graphite , as deduced from this , is 525 .
This value is in close accordance with that found by Petersen , who gives it as 5-3.* The form in which graphite occurs in nature is so closely similar to a hexagonal prism , that for a long time it was referred to the rhombo-hedral system , but later observations show that it is decidedly oblique or monoclinic .
Suppose that a number of tetrahedral groups of atoms be placed each with a trigonal axis vertical , the atoms at the base forming a single sheet in closest contact ; then suppose a similar sheet placed over the first , so that the vertical trigonal axis of each of the upper tetrahedra is continuous with that- of each tetrahedron of the lower layer .
The resulting symmetry will be that of the oblique system , and will be hemimorphie .
It is of especial interest to compare the volumetric relations which exist , on the one hand , between these hypothetical modes of packing for diamond and graphite , and on the other between the atomic volumes of diamond and graphite themselves .
It can be shown from mere inspection that the volume occupied by the packed spheres in the case of diamond is to that in the case of graphite as 2:3 , for six spheres in the packing of diamond occupy the same space as four in that of graphite ; i.e. , if we restrict attention to two sheets only , in diamond both are most closely packed , every three spheres in the lower layer having three corresponding spheres in the upper , while , in graphite , only the lower layer is most closely packed , and in the upper but one sphere occurs in correspondence to every set of three spheres below .
Next the volume found for diamond is 3-42 , and that for graphite , 525 , and 3*42 : 525 = 2 : 3-07 .
There is thus a correspondence between the ratio of the volumes as deduced from hypothesis and that obtained by experiment as exact as the nature of the case permits .
Although graphite is not truly rhombohedral , it makes a close approach to the symmetry of the rhombohedral system , as it might very well do from the structure here assigned to it .
Nordenskiold , from measurements made on graphite from Pargas , is supposed to have shown that the apparently hexagonal prisms are really oblique , pro-* ' Zeils .
f. Plivsikalischo Chemie , ' vol. 8 , p. 601 , 1891 .
On the Intimate Structure of Crystals .
duced by a combination of the forms 001 , 110 , 010 .
The angle ft was found to measure 71 ' 16 ' , and thus only differs from the angle of a tetrahedron ( which is 70c 30 ' ) by 46 minutes .
The angle of the prism 110 was found to be 122 24 ' , or 2 ' 24 ' greater than that of a regular hexagon .
The packing of the atoms in graphite is the most open we have yet encountered ; in diamond , not only the closest , but the closest possible .
Yet graphite is the commoner form of carbon , and the more easily produced by artificial means .
Nature therefore does not seem to especially favour closest possible packing , rather leaning on the contrary to the more open arrangements .
The relative hardness of the two forms of carbon would seem to be connected with their structure , graphite\#151 ; one of the softest of minerals , and diamond without exception the hardest .
As Professor Miers suggests , the sectility of graphite may perhaps be connected with its open structure , but on other differences in the physical characters of the two substances the structure seems to throw no light .

