A Paper was read , entitled , " On a simple electro-chemical method of ascertaining the presence of different metals j applied to detect minute quantities of metallic poisons .
" By Edmund Davy , Esq. F.R.S. , M.R.I.A. , and Professor of Chemistry to the Royal Dublin Society .
The Voltaic arrangement employed by the author consisted merely of small slips of different metals , generally zinc and platina , placed in contact and forming a galvanic circuit with the interposed fluid suspected to contain the poisonous metal - , in which case , as was formerly shown by Sir H. Davy in his Bakerian lecture , the metal held in solution is deposited in the form of crystals , on the negative surface , The zinc was usually employed in the form of foilj the platina was , in some cases , a small crucible , or a spatulaj but more frequently platina foil was used .
It is generally necessary to mix a few drops of acid with the metallic compounds that are subjected to this test , and that are placed in contact with the pla ?
tina : on applying the zinc foil , the platina will soon become coated with the reduced metal .
The author then enters into the detail of his experiments on the eflicacy of his method in the detection of arsenic , mercury , lead and copper , in their different states of oxidation and saline combina ?
tions ; and of the precautions necessary to be observed in the case of each metal .
He was enabled to detect the presence of arsenic , by the exhibition of its characteristic properties , when only the 500dth part of a grain of that metal was deposited on the platina $ and in some instances could appreciate the 2500dth part of a grain , by the application of appropriate tests .
The author next ascertained that the electro-chemical method is competent to the detection of very minute quantities of the different metals , when their compounds are mixed with various vegeta ?
ble and animal substances .
Thus , the presence of arsenic would readily be discovered when mixed with all the ordinary articles of diet , ?
such as wheaten flour , bread , starch , rice , potatoes , peas , soup , sugar , vinegar , gruel , tea , milk , eggs , gelatine , and various kinds of winej also when mixed with the principal secretions of the alimentary canal , as bile and saliva .
Arsenious acid mixed with butter , lard and oils , or with sheep 's blood , or ox bile , was de ?
tected with great ease .
Similar results were afforded by corrosive sublimate , the acetate of lead , and sulphate of copper , added in small quantity to the most complicated mixtures of organic substances .
In some instances where the common tests do not act at all , or only act fallaciously , the electro-chemical method acts with the greatest certainty .

