]\gt ; onoclinic Double Selenates of the Cobalt Group .
By A. E. H. TUTTON , D.Sc .
, M.A. , F.R.S. ( Received May 9 , 1919 .
) This memoir deals with the four double selenates of the series , in which is cobalt and is potassium , rubidium , oaesium , and ammonium .
Only the potassium and ammonium salts of this cobalt group have been hitherto investigated .
They were prepared and analysed by von Hauer , crystals measured by Haldor and their optical properties partially determined by and Christiansen .
The salts were prepared for this present ation by dissolving pure cobalt carbonate in the calculated of dilute selenic acid , boiling off carbon dioxide , and ; then adding the solution of cobalt selenate so obtained to a molecularly equivalent quantity of a solution of the alkali selenate , one drop excess of selenic acid eventually added to the mixed solution to ensure perfect clarity .
The ammonium and potassium selenates were from a very pure stock prepared in some quantity a short time ago ; the rubidium and caesium selenates were freshly prepared by dissolving the pure carbonates in selenic acid , and boiling off carbon dioxide .
The crystallisations were effected from metastable solutions , with all the precautions previously described , and numerous crops of the beautiful rubv red crystals of all four salts were obtained , of which several in each case proved suitable for the measurements and determinations .
The work on these four salts is especially similar and parallel to that on the four analogous nickel salts described in 1916 , S so that descriptions of methods need not be again given , but merely the results communicated .
Potassium Cobalt Selenate , Crysted System .
Class No. 5 , holohedral-prismatic .
's value Ratio of Axes .
: :1 : 's value Forms observed .
The forms and were not observed by ' Wien .
Akad .
Sitzber vo ] .
39 , p. 839 ( 1860 ) .
'Krystallogr.-kem .
Unders . .
de Selensure Salt , ' Copenhagen , 1870 .
'Ann .
de Chim .
et de Phys Ser. 5 , vol. 1 , pp. 78 and 79 ( 1874 ) .
S 5 Phil. Trans , vol. 217 , p. 199 ( 1917 ) .
Monoclinic Double Selenates of the Cobalt Group .
Interfacial Angles of Potassium 7 \mdash ; 9438\mdash ; Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Habit.\mdash ; That characteristic of the potassium salts of the series , namely , short prismatic parallel to the vertical axis , to tabular parallel to with and vastly predominating , being very small .
typical crystal is represented in fig. 1 .
The very small faces of were usually the only other faces visible , but on wo measured qtals narrow strip-faces of and were present , One good little face of the prism was present on one of the measured crystals .
The -faces of this salt were generally more affected by striation than those of the other salts of the group , and more difficulty was experienced , but eventually overcome , in finding ten crystals adequately free from this fault .
The crystal measured by was obviously much affected by striation , his value for the angle being much too small .
\mdash ; Excellent parallel to Relative Density.\mdash ; Six determinations were made by the immersion met hod using methylene iodide and benzene mixture .
I. Density for For II .
, , , , III .
, , , , IV .
, , , , .
, , , , .
, , , , Mean Accepted value for Nolecular found the specific gravity , a value much too low , and the molecular volume correspondingly much too Molecular Distance Ratios ( topic axial ratios : : orientation of Ellipsoid.\mdash ; Plane of optic axes .
Sign of double raction , positive .
The first median line is the axis of the , and the second median line is Monoclinic Double Setenates of the Cobalt Group .
Extinction Direction in Symmetry Plane .
Plate I. ..5o 21 ' , Plate II .
..5o 25 ' , Mean behind the normal to .
As the latter is in front of the vertical axis , the second median line lies in front of the vertical axis .
The first median line lies above the inclined axis and Christiansen found for the latter .
Fig. 2 will render these facts clear .
Axial Angle.\mdash ; Results with three pairs of plates ground perpendicular to the first and second median lines .
Plate 3 was so thick and therefore absorptive , that was not clearly measurable with it .
Apparent Optic Axial Angle in Air , , of KCo Selenate .
Christiansen obtained for for sodium light .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Determination of True Optic Axial Angle in Bromonaphtha16ne .
Owing to the strong absorption by these ruby-red crystals of light of wavelengths beyond that of the thallium green line , the true optic axial angle could only be determined by observations of and in bromonaphthalene so far as for that colour .
In the case of , observations were found possible as far as the wave-length of the green cadmium line .
and Christiansen found for for sodium light .
Dispersion of the Median Lines.\mdash ; This was determined by immersion in monochlorbenzene , the refractive index of which , for Na light , is almost absolutely identical with the mean index of the crystals , for Na light .
It proved to be exceedingly small , less than 5 ' , and the brushes showed no colour at all on their margins ( except the pale red of the section itself ) .
Effect of Temperature on Optic Axial Angle .
was determined with section 1 for C. , and found to be for Na light .
Hence the angle in air increases on heating from the ordinary temperature to C. Refractive Indices.\mdash ; Results with six -prisms , each ground to yield two indices .
The images were clearly discernible eYen for Cd , , and light .
Refractive Indices of Potassium Cobalt Selenate .
Mean of , and for light Vibration direction parallel to second median line , in front of axis , , , , , , symmetry axis , , , , , , first median line , above axis Double refraction , Monoclinic Double Selenates of the Cobalt Group .
General formula for , corrected to a vacuum:\mdash ; The indices are equally well reproduced by the formula if the constant be diminished by , and the indices if it be increased by Observations at indicated that the refractive indices diminish by about for a rise of of temperature .
The values of and Christiansen were : for , line , line , line ; the and values were only obtained indirectly and for line only ; they are given as and Axial Ratios of the Optical Ellipsoid\mdash ; : ; Molecular Optical Constants .
Mean molecular refraction ( Gladstone ) , Rubidiurn Cobalt Selenate , Crystal System.\mdash ; Monoclinic .
Class No. 5 , holohedral-prismatic .
Axial Angle .
of Axes .
: : Forms observed .
Habit.\mdash ; More or less tabular parallel to , to short prismatic parallel to the vertical axis as prism axis .
The greater portion of the numerous crops obtained were of the former type ; a typical specimen is shown in fig. 3 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Interfacial of Rubidium Cobalt Selenate .
116 2-116\mdash ; 19 8-7129 6348\mdash ; 7740\mdash ; 8629\mdash ; 9331\mdash ; 127 $6 Monoclinic Double Setenates of the Cobalt Group .
The -faces were relatively larger , compared with the -faces , than in the case of the potassium salt , but the -faces in most cases still predominated as the principal es of the tablet .
The -faoes were always important , and their lesser or greater depth determined the tabular or prismatic character of the crystals .
The faces of were almost invariably small , and those of were but narrow strips modifying the edges .
The clinopinakoid faces were also small , but usually gave excellent reflections of the signal .
Ten excellent crystals measured .
Cleavage.\mdash ; Parallel to , perfect .
Retative Density.\mdash ; Six determinations were made by the immersion method .
Density f III .
2.8390 2.8385 , Iv .
, 2.8371 2.8372 Mean Accepted value for Jfolecular Volume .
Molecular Distance ( topic axial ) ratios.\mdash ; : : Orientation of Optical Ellipsoid.\mdash ; Plane of optic axes , .
Sign of double refraction , positive .
The first median line is the axis of the indicatrix , and the second median line is FIG. 4 .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Extinction Direction in Symmetry Plane .
Plate Ilo , Plate II3o 2 ' .
Plate III , Mean2o 24 ' , behind the normal to .
As that normal is in front of the vertical axis , the second median line lies front of the vertical axis .
The first median line lies above the inclined axis .
Fig. 4 will render this clear .
Optic Axial Angle.\mdash ; Results with three pairs of section-plates perpendicular to the two median lines .
Plate 2 did not quite admit of being fully visible , being narrow and the angle in air very wide .
Apparent Optic Axial Angle in Air , , of RbCo Selenate .
Determination of True Optic Axial Angle in Bromonaphthalene .
LNia { The absorption by these ruby red crystals did not admit of accurate measurements beyond the green .
Dispersion of the Median Lines.\mdash ; This was determined by immersion of the sections perpendicular to the first median line in monochlorbenzene , the refractive index of which is almost identical with the mean index of the crystals .
The dispersion proved to be exceedingly small , less than 5 ' , so small , indeed , that its direction was not determinable with certainty .
The vertices of the brushes were quite black , as seen in this liquid , with no perceptible colour at the margins except the natural red of the section-plates themselves .
Monoclinic Double Selenates of the Cobalt Group .
Eflect of Ternperature on Optic Axiat Angle.\mdash ; Determinations of at C. indicated that the angle in air increases on raising the temperature from the ordinary temperature to C. Refractive Indices.\mdash ; Results obtained with six -prisms , each ground to afford two indices directly .
Refractive Indices of Rubidium Cobalt Selenate .
Mean of , and for Na light Vibration direction parallel to second median line , in front of axis , , , , , , symmetry axis , , , , , .
first median line , above axis Double refraction , General formula , corrected to a vacuum:\mdash ; The indices are also leproduced by the formula if the constant be diminished by , and the indices if it be increased by Observations at indicated that the refractive indices diminish with rise of temperature , to the extent of for rise of temperature .
Axial Ratios of the Eltipsoid\mdash ; : , a : : Molecular Optical Constants .
Mean molecular refraction , Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Cobalt Selenate , Crystal System.\mdash ; Monoclinic .
Class No. 5 , holohedral-prismatic .
Axial Angle .
Ratio of Axes .
: : 1 : Forms observed .
Habit.\mdash ; Prismatic parallel to inclined axis .
A typical crystal is shown in fig. 5 .
FIG. 6 .
The characteristics of tlJe caesium salts of this grand series are well shown by caesium cobalt selenate , namely , narrow faces and broader faces .
The great majority of the tals showed no faces of either or , and not infrequently also no faces , the only forms developed being , and .
Occasionally an excellent face of was found on the larger crystals .
Cleavage.\mdash ; Perfect parallel Relative Density.\mdash ; Six determinations were carried out by the immersion method .
I. Density for For 3.0939 3.0933 , , III .
3.0924 \ldquo ; Iv .
, , 3.0958 3.0955 3.0964 3.0944 , , 3 .
Mean Accepted value for Molecular Jfoleculajr pistance ( topic axial ) ratios.\mdash ; : : orientation of Optical Ellipsoid.\mdash ; Plane of optic axes .
Sign of double refraction positive .
The first median line is the axis of the indicatrix , and the second line median is Monoclinic Double Setenates of the Cobalt Group .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Extinction Direction in Symmetry Plane .
Plate I. ..2o 40 ' , Plate II3o 13 ' , Plate III Mean extinction angle in front of the normal to .
As that normal is already in front of the vertical axis , the second median line lies in front of the vertical axis .
The first median line lies below the inclined axis Fig. 6 will render the position plain .
FIG. 6 .
Optic Axial Angte.\mdash ; Results for three pairs of section-plates , ground perpendicular to the two median lines .
The optic axial angle is so large that it does not emerge in air .
Coesium Cobalt Selenate .
Measurements of and were only possible as far as the green of the spectrum , on account of the large absorption by these red crystals , thick plates being required in order to yield clear interference figures .
Monoclinic Double Selenates of the Cobalt Group .
Dispersion of the Nedian Lines.\mdash ; This was determined by immersion of the section-plates perpendicular to the first median line in oil of cloves , the refractive index of which for sodium light , ( re-determined at the time ) , is practically identical with that mean three indices , of the crystals .
It was found that the median lines are in the symmetry plane , so that for green thallium light the first median line is nearer to the inclined axis by 10 ' than for red -light .
Befractive es.\mdash ; Results with six -prisms , each ground to afford two indices directly .
Refractive Indices of Caesium Cobalt Selenate .
Mean of , and for Na light Vibration direction parallel to second median line , in front of axis , , , , , , symmetry axis , , , , , , first median line , below axis Double refraction , General formula for the intermediate refractive index , corrected to a vacuum correction :\mdash ; The indices are also reproduced very closely by the formula if the constant be diminished by and the indices if the constant be increased by at C. showed that the refractive indices are diminished by about ( varying from to ) for rise of temperature .
Axial Ratios of Optical , a : Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Molecular Optical Constants .
Mean molecular refraction ( Gladstone ) , l2386 .
Ammonium Cobalt Selenate Crystal Monoclinic .
Class No. 5 , holohedral-prismatic . .
The same value was found by Ratio of 's values : bserved .
The forms and were not observed by Habit.\mdash ; More or less tabular parallel to , but with the faces also considerably developed .
A typical is represented in Fig. 7 .
FIG. 7 .
The type is thus intermediate between that of the potassium salt shown in fig. 1 and that of caesium salt represented in fig. 5 .
It is not unlike that of the rubidium salt ( fig. 3 ) , but the faces of and were generally larger .
The relative importance of the subsidiary faces was generally more or as shown in fig. 7 .
Some excellent little faces of observed , affording sharp signal .
One good little face of the very rare clinodomal form was discovered on one of the twelve crystals measured , which belonged to three different crops of particularly good crystals .
Some relatively large and excellently reflecting faces of the clinopinakoid were present on the crystals of certain crops .
Monoclinic Double of the Cobalt Group .
Interfacial Angles of Ammonium Cobalt Selenate .
V0L .
XCVI .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Cleavage.\mdash ; Perfect parallel .
There is also a much less well defined cleavage parallel to Relative Dcnsity.\mdash ; Six determinations were made by the immersion method .
1 .
Density for . .
For . .
II .
III . . .
2 .
, 2.2279 Iv .
, . .
2.2287 . .
2.2283 . .
2.2270 Mean Accepted value for 485.93 Molecular Volume.\mdash ; obtained the lower value for the specific gravity , and con .
sequently also a molecular volume too high , namely , Molecular Distance ( topic axial ) ratios.\mdash ; orientation of Optical EUipsoid.\mdash ; Plane of optic axes double refraction , positive .
The first median line is the axis 01 indicatrix , and is the second median line .
Extinction Direction in Symmetry Plane .
Plate I13o 25 ' , Plate II14o Mean14o behind the normal to .
As the latter is in front of vertical axis , this extinction direction , which is the second median line lies in front of the vertical axis .
The first median line lies above the inclined axis ( obtained and for these extinction .
These facts are graphically illustrated in fig. 8 .
Monoclinic Double of the Cobalt Group .
Optic Axial Angle.\mdash ; This is so that , the angle in air , is indeberminable .
Results for , and the true , from three pairs plates , ground perpendicular to the two bisectrices , are given below .
One pair of them were measurable as far as the green of cadmium , the other two pairs only as far as thallium green ; beyond these spectrum limits the absorption by these red plates was too reat , as thick plates are required to yive sharp interference figures .
Cobalt Setenate .
Debelmination of True Optic Axial Angle in Bromonaphthalene .
and Christiansen obtained for , for sodium light .
Dispersion of the Medic ?
\mdash ; This was determined by immersion in methyl salicylate , the refractive index for sodium light of which , , is close to the mean index for that light , , for the crystals .
The median llines are dispersed 12 ' in the symmetry plane , so that the first median line is Inearer to the inclined axis for red light than for boreen Tl light , by this amount .
Refractive Indices.\mdash ; The results with the usual six -prisms , each giving indices , next follow . .
A. E. H. Tutton .
efractive Indices of Ammonium Cobalt Selenate .
Vibratio direction parallel to second median line , in front of vertical axis , , , , , , symmetry axis first median line , above inclined axis Double refraction , Habit.\mdash ; The crystals of the potassium , rubidium , and caesium salts ) this cobalt group exhibit the habits which have been observed to characteristic of these respective salts throughout the series , as so fa Double Selenates of the Cobalt Group .
nvestigated .
They are typified by the relative development of the basal inakoid c and clinodomal prism , the former predominating in he potassium salt and the latter in the caesium salt , while in the rubidium salt two forms are more or less equally deyeloped , the habit of this salt fhus very clearly of intermediate character .
The crystals of the ammonium are usually very much like those of the intermediate rubidium salt , but the limits are wider , the types shown by the potassium and caesium salts also each nearly approached in different individuals .
stat Elements and Angles.\mdash ; Comparison of the Axial Angles and Axial Ratios .
From the above Table it will be clear that the monoclinic axial angle for rubidium cobalt selenate is approximately the mean of the corresponding axial angles for the potassium and caesium salts .
The axial of ammonium cobalt selenate is nearly identical with that of caesium cobalt selenate .
The morphological axial ratios of the rubidium salt are likewise intermediate between the analogous ratios for the potassium and caesium salts .
Thus both as regards the axial and the axial ratios the constants follow !
the order of the atomic weights and atomic numbers of the alkali metals present .
Atomic weights : , Rb Atomic numbers : , Rb , Cs The axial ratios of the ammonium salt are intermediate between the two extremes for the group ( for the potassium and caesium salts ) , and fairly close to those for the intermediate rubidium salt .
True isomorphism of ammonium cobalt selenate with the three alkali-metallic salts of the cobalt group is thus clearly indicated .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
Comparison of the I From the above comparative Table of 38 measul'ed angles the salient fac is derived that the whole of the angles of the rubidium salt are intermediat between those of the potassinm and salts .
The Table is best analyse in the following manner ( as for former groups ) , by working out the averag and maximum changes of angle for the various replacements:\mdash ; Double of , Cobalt ) .
177 The and maximum changes of are thus seen to be twice great when potassium is replaced by caesium , as they are when potassium replaced.by rubidium , just as the change of atomic weight or atomic number is twice as great .
So that the average change and the maximum change of interfacial angle are directly proportional to the change in atomic weight or atomic number .
The introduction of the radicle ammonium instead of potassium induces an amount of average or maximum change of angle which is just slightly less than when caesium is substituted for potassium .
In the case of 35 of the angles the changes in the same direction ( of same sign ) when ammonium is introduced for potassium , as when either rubidium or caesium is introduced , the only three exceptions in cases where the change is very minute , not exceeding 6 ' .
It will be observed that the maximum change of angle for the whole group of four salts is which occurs in the case of one angle , , when potassium in potassium cobalt selenate is replaced by caesium , or vice versed .
Volume Constants.\mdash ; Volume Constants of the Cobalt Group of Double Selenates .
The density increases with the molecular weight , the changes for the respective replacements of by Rb and Rb by Cs being as 6 : 5 , the effect thus diminishing as the mass grows .
The ammonium salt is naturally much the lightest member of the group .
The molecular volume of the three alkali metallic salts increases at an accelerating rate , as the atomic weight or atomic number rises , the amount for the two changes of metal being and respectively .
The molecular volume of ammonium cobalt selenate is almost identical with that of rubidium cobalt selenate , a result as ards the ammonium and rubidium salts always observed so far throughout the series .
The molecular volumes of the double selenates are naturally greater than those of the double sulphates , and selenium being analogues separated by two whole series of elements in the periodic table , their atomic numbers being 16 and 34 ; and it interesting to see what is the amount Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
of the increase in the molecular volume on replacing sulphur by selenium .
As there are two atoms of sulphur or selenium in the molecule of the double salt , we obtain the increase per atom by subtracting the molecular volume of the double suJphate from that of the double elellaGe and dividing by two .
The results of doing this , for the analogous salts of all the five pairs of roups monoclinic double , salts yet completely yated , are given in the next Table .
The results also for the simple hates and selenates are added for comparison , and in this case , as there is only one atom of sulphur or in the simple rhombic salt , there no division by two , the differences of molecular volume for the analogous sulphate and selenate giving the increase atom directly .
Only the strictly analogous potassium , rubidium , and caesium salts are connpared hout ; for no comparable value can be got for the simple ammonium salts , as ammonium selenate crystals are only available for molecular volume determinations in the monoclinic and not the rhombic form .
Increase of Molecular Volume on by Se .
Salt grou ] ) .
Iron . . .
Salt grou ] ) .
Iron . . .
Salt grou ] ) .
Iron . . .
Salt grou ] ) .
Iron . . .
Salt grou ] ) .
Iron . . .
increase per atom .
to units 6.1 to 6.8 6.0 to 6.1 6.3 to 6.4 6.5 to 6.8 The leplacement of one atom of sulphur by an atom of selenium is thus found to be accompanied by an increase of to units of molecular volume .
The results are very concordant for the various groups of salts , both double and single .
The molecular distance ( topic axial ) ratios of the rubidimu salt are also intermediate between those for the potassium and caesium salts , the axial or edge dimensions of the mqnoclinic elementary cell of the space-lattice increasing progressively with the atomic weight or atomic number of the alkali metal .
These constants for the ammonium salt are almost identical with those for the rubidium salt , two of the three dimensions being very slightly greater , and the third a minute ount less .
The space-lattice cells of the rubidium and ammonium salts are thus practically congruent or coincident .
Cleavage .
is a perfect oleavage parallel to the orthopinakoid in the crystals of all four salts .
This is the common cleavage direction of the whole series of double sulphates , and of all the groups of the double Monoclinic Double of the selenates yet studied , to this same monoclinic isomorphous crystallising with .
In addition , a feeble facility for has also been observed in ammonium cobalt selenate parallel to the clinopinakoid second leavage dtion , mmonium dalnesulphates , those the magnesium , nickel , manganese , and copper groups .
Orieh'ation of Optical Ellipsoid.\mdash ; The symmetry requires only one of the three ngular axes of the optical ellipsoid to be fixed , namely , that is identical symmetry axis .
The two others , lying in the symmetry plane , may be anywhere in that plane consistent with their mutual rectangularity .
They are not only differently situated for the different salts , but even for the same salt they are dispersed slightly different wave of The position of the ellipsoid is thus conveniently determined by the position for a specific wave-length of that one of the two latter axes which is not far removed from the vertical crystal axis ; it is the axis of the indicatrix and the second median line for all four sidt Inclination of Axis of Indicatrix to Vertical Axis , in front , for Na selenate RbCo \ldquo ; CsCo The Table indicates that the ellipsoid is so situated that in the crystals of the ammonium salts its axis lies very near , and just front of , the vertical crystal axis .
In the crystals of the salts containing the three alkali metals it is situated so that this is further and further removed from the vertical axis as the atomic weight or atomic number of the ] metal increases .
The ellipsoid thus rotates about the symmetry axis when one alkali metal is ' another , and progressively at an accelerating rate , following the ascending order of the atomic weights or atomic numbers of the interchanged metals .
Its position for each of the four salts is graphically indicated in fig. 9 , which shows the progression clearly .
Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
FIG. 9 .
Optic Axial \mdash ; The plane of symmetry is the common plane of the optic axes for the whole group .
In all four cases the si of the double refraction is positive , and the first median line is the axis of the indicatrix lying in the symmetry plane not far removed from the inclined crystal axis Optic Axial Angles of the Cobalt Group of Double Selenates .
The optic axial angle is thus seen to increase with the atomic weight or atomic number of the alkali metal , the value for the rubidium salt being intermediate , slightly nearer to that of the potassium salt .
The optic axial angle of ammonium cobalt selenate comes between those for the rubidium and caesium Double Sctenates of the Group .
Refractive Comparison of the Refractive Indices .
RbCo ateNH c 1'5508 The and indices of the rubidiuun salt will be observed to be intermediate between the corresponding indices for the potassium and caesium salts .
As , however , a great diminution of double refraction for Na light occurs as the atomic weight or atomio number rises , the indices for the rubidium salt slightly less than those of the potassium salt .
The mean refractive index , however , for the rubidium salt is intermediate between the mean indices of the potassium and caesium salts .
The effect of change of double refraction is overcome at the caesium salt , as the change in refractive index is a more considerably accelerating one , so that all the caesium salt indices indicate an advance in refractive power .
The refractive indices of the ammonium salt are intermediate between those of the rubidium and caesium salts .
Double Refraction.\mdash ; The progression , a diminution , with rise in atomic number or atomic weight , already alluded to , will be clearly apparent from the last line of the Table .
The value for the ammonium salt is just beyond that for the rubidium salt .
Axial Ratios of Optical Indicatric.\mdash ; Similar facts are expressed by these ratios of the axes of the indicatrix , which are directly proportional to the Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
refractive indices .
The slight set-back of the value for the rubidiuni salt , due to the operation of the fall in double refraction , is shown by the second series of ratios , for all of which the value of the potassium salt is taken as unity .
This right-hand series of ratios expresses the total change in the dimensions of the optical ellipsoid on passing from one salt to the other , just the Table for the inclination of the axis of the ellipsoid to the vertical crystal axis indicates the position of the ellipsoid in the various salts , the two Tables together thus giving complete information concerning the dimensions and orientation of the optical ellipsoid in the crystal .
Axial Batios of the Optical Indicatrix .
: : KCo selenate 1 : : 10106 RbCo , , CsOo Molecula Optical Constants.\mdash ; Specific efraction and Dispersion Molecular Refraction and Dispersion ( Lorenz ) .
Monoclinic Double Selenates of the Cobalt Group .
Molecular Refraction ( Gladstone and ) ) .
The whole of the specific and molecular optical constants of the ) salt given in the above Tables are intermediate between those of the potassium and caesium salts .
The refraction increases considerably more when caesium replaces rubidium than when the latter replaces potassium , the proportion being as 5 : 3 .
The increases are nearly alike the and axes , but are less along the axis .
These conclusions are independent of the temperature within ordinary limits , as it was directly proved that the refractive indices of all the salts were lowered by raising the tem , which is the same direction of change as the density suffers on rise of temperature ; so that the effect of temperature is similar on both the numerator and denominator factors involved in the calculation of molecular refraction .
The molecular refraction of ammonium cobalt selenate is very close to ( slightly higher than ) that for rubidium cobalt selenate , a result in with that derived from a comparison of the morphological constants , the topic axial ratios .
A comparison of the values for the moleculal refraction of these four cobalt double selenates with the analogous values for the foul ' cobalt double sulphates shows that the selenate values are higher by to Lorenz units , or to Gladstone units .
Dividing by two for the number of atoms present , this gives to Lorentz units , or to Gladstone units , for the increase per atom , when sulphur is replaced by selenium .
This accords well with the similar results derived from the roups already studied , as recorded in the following final Table:\mdash ; Increase of Molecular Refraction on Replacing by Se .
Monoclinic Double of the Cobalt Group .
Conctuding The foregoing results are in complete accord with those derived from the study of four other grou ( the zinc , magnesium , nickel , and iron groups ) of double selenates previously described , and from the fully completed investi , ation of all the known groups of the analogous double sulphates , all belonging to this grandly monoclinic isomorphous series , .
The dominating facts revealed are again ( 1 ) the progressive character of all the crystallographic and physical properties , following the progression of the atomic numbers ( and therefore atomic weights ) of the interchangeable and determinative alkali metals concerned , potassium , rubidium , and and ( 2 ) the almost perfect isostructure , that is , ruency , coincidence , and equality of dimensions of the elementary cells of the monoclinic space-lattices , of the crystals of the ammonium and ubidium salts of the group .
A natural and logical explanation of the progression referred to in result ( 1 ) is afforded by Moseley 's law , as was explained in detail at the conclusion of the memoir the nickel group .
* Still more recent work on the structure of the atom has only the confirmed and amplified the explanation .
It is , undoubtedly , the progression in the complexity of the structure of the atoms of the alkali metals , with all its physical and chemical consequences , that causes the progressive modification in the morphology and physical properties of the crystals of these doul ) salts in which they play so dominant a part . .
cit. , p. 234 .

