I. A letter from EDWIN CANTON , Esq. , accompanying the collection of autograph letters to which it refers .
Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. " 4 Montagu Street , Russell Square , March 29 , 1855 .
" DEAR SIR , -Will you do me the favour of presenting to the Royal Society , for their acceptance , the accompanying collection of autograph letters from Franklin , Priestley , Sir J. Banks and others , together with several documents which were formerly in the possession of my great-grandfather , John Canton , F.R.S. " The collection was given to me when a lad of about fourteen years of age by my uncle ( Mr. Nathaniel Canton ) , who resides in the neighbourhood of Spital Square .
It was received by him from his father ( Mr. William Canton ) , whose residence was the same as that now occupied by his son .
" I mention , particularly , the time when the letters came into my possession in explanation of the circumstance of some of them being wanting in address or superscription , for , being but a lad at the 362 time of their receipt , I was unaware of the value which attaches to a direction , ' post-mark , ' &amp;c. , and , in my ignorance , I tore away , in a few instances , these important aids to proof of authenticity .
" Accompanying this note and the above collection is one of the balls of ' elastic substance , ' mentioned by Sir Joseph Banks in a communication to my great-grandfather .
Should the Royal Society deem this , too , worthy of being in their possession , I shall have much pleasure in their accepting it .
" I am , dear Sir , " To C. R. Weld , Esq. , 6 Yours very truly , Royal Society .
" " EDWIN CANTON .
" " P.S. In thanking you , Sir , for your suggestion that I should bequeath the letters , &amp;c. to the Royal Society , I beg to say that I shall feel myself much gratified in finding the present to be one which they will now do me the honour of accepting ; and in conclusion , may I beg that you will oblige me by retaining , yourself , the seal , in which you take an interest ?
"

