98 Prof. W. J. Sollas .
Investigation of Fossils .
[ May 19 , 8 Kruger , W. , " Beitr\amp ; ge sir Kenntniss der Organismen des Saftflusses der Laubbaume , " Zopf 's* Beitrage sir Physiologic niederer Organismen , ' vol. 4,1894 .
9 Karsten , \lt ; 3- .
, 'Ueber farblose Diatomeen , ' Flora , yol .
89 .
Erganzungbd .
1901 .
10 Dangeard , " Reclierelies sir les Eugleniens , " ' Le Botaniste , ' toI .
8 , 1902 .
11 Pfeffer , W. , 'Text-Book of Vegetable Physiology , ' English Trans. , vol. 1 , 1900 , p. 430 .
" A Method for the Investigation of Fossils by Serial Sections .
" By W. J. Sollas , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.E.S. , Professor of Geology and Palaeontology in the University of Oxford .
Eeceived May 19 , \#151 ; Eead June 11 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) Mechanical difficulties preclude the study of fossils by serial thin slices , but serial polished surfaces may be obtained at any desired degree of proximity , and these , when the fossil and its matrix offer sufficient optical contrast , serve most of the purposes of thin slices .
They may be photographed under the microscope , so as to furnish a trustworthy and permanent record .
The sections may be used to obtain reconstructions of the fossil in wax .
Several fossils have been successfully studied in this way : such as Pakeospondylus Gunni , Ophiura Egertoni , Lapwortlmra Afiltoni , Monograptus priodon and Palceodiscus ferax .
The sections are obtained at regular intervals , usually of 0 * 025 mm. , by means of an apparatus designed for the purpose by the Eev .
F. Jervis-Smith , F.E.S. , Eeader of Mechanics in the University .
" An Account of the Devonian Fish , Palceospondylus Gunni , Traquair .
" By W. J. Sollas , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology and Palaeontology in the University of Oxford , and Igekna B. J. Sollas , B.Sc. , Lecturer in Zoology , Newnham College Cambridge .
Eeceived May 19 , \#151 ; Eead June 11 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) This fossil , which has been variously referred to an alliance with Lampreys , Tadpoles , and Lung-fish , has been successfully studied by means of serial sections .
The ventral surface of the head bears four pairs of branchial bars , with the last of which two post-branchial plates , the so-called " post-occipital " plates , are associated ; in front of the branchial bars are two pairs of structures , which are regarded as representing the lower jaw and hyoid ; they are supported by a

