]\gt ; The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric ctrolytes .
I.\mdash ; Methyl Derivatives of Para-aminobenzoic Acid and of Glycine .
By JOHN JOHNSTON , B.Sc. , A.I.C. ( Carnegie Research Scholar ) .
( Communicated by Professor James Walker , F.R.S. Received May 21 , \mdash ; Road May 31 , 1906 .
) ( From the Chemical Laboratory , Lniversity College , Dundee .
) The following investigation was undertaken in order to determine the influence on the basic and acidic constants of successive introductions of a methyl group into an amino-acid , including the effect of changing the acid into corresponding methyl ester .
Two series of compounds were investi- gated , namely , the methyl derivatives of -aminobenzoic acid and of glycine .
Constants for aminobenzoic acid , glycine , and some of its methyl derivatives had already been determined by Wiukelblech .
* Methods .
Whenever practicable the basic constant was determined by means of the catalysis of methyl acetate , using the comparison method of Walker and Wood .
The end point was determined in a separate experiment with decinormal hydrochloric acid ; and it was found that the same result was obtained whether or not the bottle containing the reaction mixture had been opened to admit of intermediate readings being taken .
In every case 1 at a time was withdrawn and titrated with caustic soda , which had been prepared from sodium and conductivity water ; and unless otherwise stated , phenolphthalein was used as indicator .
In the tables refers to the dilution of the solution after mixture , A is the total of the reaction , and is the constant for a monomolecular reaction .
In cases where the catalysis method was inapplicable , recourse was had to the Lovenherz solubility method , which was carried out as follows : A flask a known weight of substance mixed with a known volume of standard hydrochloric acid was kept in the thermostat for at least a day , being shaken from time to time .
The liquid was then filtered through a tared paper , and the paper and contents\mdash ; the amount left undissolved\mdash ; were dried until of constant .
The solubility in water was determined by a similar method .
' Zeit .
fur physikal .
Chem vol. 36 , p. 546 , 1901 .
'Journ .
Chem. Soc vol. 83 , p. 484 , 1903 .
Compare Wood , ' Journ. Chem. Soc vol. 83 , p. 572 , 1903 .
The Affinity of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
In one case , owing to the impracticability of either of the above methods , the basic constant was determined by the distribution method of Farmer and Warth .
* Known of substance were shaken up with known volunles of benzene and water , and of benzene and standard hydrochloric acid .
The amount of free base present in the benzene layer was determined by experiment , allowance being made for the mutual solubility of benzene and water ; the amount of base in aqueous layer was obtained by difference .
From the data obtained in this way , the basic constant , calculated .
The acidic constant was determined by means of conductivity measurements or by the ] -hydrolysis method of Shields The conductivity measurements were effected in the usual way , but it was found that in most cases unplatinised electrodes gave better results than platinised electrodes , owing , apparently , to a certain amounG of absorption of the substance by the latter .
The water used had a conductiviCy not greater than at .
no correction was made for the conductiyiGy of the water .
From the measurements the acidic constant was calculated by means of the equations established by Walker .
The symbols used have the same as in those papers .
The solution for the hydrolysis method of Shields was prepared as follows .
To a measured volume of a standard solution of pure soda was added the equivalent quantity of the substance .
Wheu this solution had reached the temperature of the thermostat , the equivalent amount of a solution of methyl acetate\mdash ; also at \mdash ; was added .
After shaking , 5 .
of the mixture was immediately withdrawn and titrated with hydrochloric acid , using nitrophenol as indicator .
When tlJe reaction proceeded very rapidly , this initial titre was obtained by calculation .
At suitable intervals , other portions of withdrawn and titrated ilarly .
As equivalent concentrations of salt and methyl acetate were enlployed , the calculation is somewhat simpler than that given by Shields .
If is the original concentration of methyl acetate and of the salt , the amount transformed in time the constant the equilibrium between the hydrolysed and unhydrolysed portions of the salt , and the saponificatiou constant for caustic soda , then ' Journ. Chem. Soc vol. 85 , p. 1713 , 1904 .
' Zeit .
physikal .
Chem vol. 12 , p. ] , 1893 .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. , p. 155 , vol. 74 , p. 2/ 1 , 1904 .
S Cf .
Shields , .
cit. Mr. J. Johnston .
[ May 21 , which on ration between the proper limits gives The value of is o'otained from the equation , in which is the dissociation constant of water , and is equal to at .
The of the above formula is inadmissible when the degree of hydrolysis is reat .
This is the case with the betaines investigated .
These were compared directly with a similar solution of pure caustic soda ; and the rates 01 reaction in the two cases proved to be almost identical .
The experiments throughout the investigation were carried out at a temperature of Methyl Ester of Acid , A solution of the acid in absolute methyl alcohol was saturated with hydrochloric acid gas , and boiled under a reflux condenser for five hours .
On cooling , crystals of the ester hydrochloride separated , which , on recry-stallisation from methyl alcohol , yielded plates of a slightly yellowish colour .
Chlorine found I , per cent. requires Cl , . .
The amount halogen was in this and in all similar cases determined by Volhard 's method .
On a solution of the hydrochloride with ammonia , the ester was precipitated , and was recrystallised from methyl alcohol as white plates melting at Comparison Solutions .
Cl solution cent. cent. , .
Hydrolysis in ; in II per cent. per cent. Now if is the hydrolysed proportion , the dilution , and the dissociation constant for water , * Compare Einhorn , ' Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 311 , p. 158 , 1900 .
1906 .
] The Affinity of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
Hence 1 .
II .
; Mean value for Determination of Basic Constant\mdash ; Catalysis Method .
ramme hydrochloride in 15 .
water , 1 MeAc , I. Titre .
Mean II .
Mean 1 ' Ethyl Ester of inzoic Acid , This substance was prepared by a method analogous to that adopted for the methyl ester .
The hydrochloride , when recrystallised from methyl Mr. J. Johnston .
[ May 21 , alcohol , separated in shining white plates , which melted at to with decomposition .
Chlorine found per cent. COOC H requires Cl The ester was liberated by treatment of the hydrochloride with ammonia .
It recrystallised from aqueous alcohol in the form of fine white needles at Determination of Basic Constant\mdash ; Catalysis Method .
gramme hydrochloride in 20 .
water , 1 MeAc , I. II .
Comparison Solutions .
Cl solution cent. cent. , \ldquo ; Hence , 236 ; II , 240 .
Mean value of 1906 .
] The Affi , nity Constants of Amphoteric tectrolytes .
Methylam whenzoic Acid , Twenty-five grammes of -aminobenzoic acid were dissolved in the equivalent quantity of an aqueous solution of caustic soda of about 8 per cent. .
To the cooled solution , one equivalent of methyl sulphate was added , and the mixture was kept cool , and shaken from time to time .
After one and a half hours the reaction was practically complete , the mixture become quite pasty .
The solid was filtered off on the pump , dried and recrystallised from boiling water .
The yield of crude substance was almost quantitative .
When recrystallised , it consisted of small white needles , which on drying turned slightly yellow , at to 14 ; and this melting point remained unchanged after recrystallising twice from water , alcohol , or benzene .
gramme substance gave gramme and gramme T. gave .
moist , measured at and 764 mm. II .
, , , , , , , , 15 , , 773 C. H. per cent. per cent. per cent. Found 1 , II , COOH)requires As the direct dete1mination of nitrogen in the case of the aminobenzoic acids tends to give low results , the percentage of rogen was redetermined by Kjeldahl 's method .
ammonia equivalent to gramme per cent. The same product was also obtained by the action of methyl iodide on -aminobenzoic acid , but the yield was much smaller , and the isolation and purification of the acid were more troublesome .
zoic acid has an reaction to ordinary indicators , and can be roughly titrated by means of changes colour when about 94 per cent. of the acid present has been neutralised .
It is soluble in alcohol and benzene , though not very soluble in cold water , and is to a slight extent volatile in steam .
The alkali salts are freely soluble in water ; and from their aqueous solutions the free acid can be recovered by the cautious addition of hydrochloric acid , excess of which must be avoided , since it redissolves the acid with formation of the hydrochloride .
Mr. J. Johnston .
[ May 1 , Determination of the Basic Constant\mdash ; A. Catalysis Method .
I. gramme acid in HC1 and 22 .
water , 2 Cl solution cent. cent. Therefore relative concentration of free HC1 0.487 salt 0.663 free base COOH whence II .
gramme acid in HC1 and 20 .
water , 2 MeAc , Cl solution cent. cent. , 1906 .
] The Affi of Amphoteric Electx.olytes .
B. Lowenherz Solubility fethod .
Amount dissolved by .
water grammes .
Whence concentration of base in nbility ) N. Amount dissolved.by 50 gramme .
Whence total concentration of base COOH N. Therefore concentration of salt And concentration of free HC1 N. General mean of Determination of the Acidic Constant ctiyity Method .
of the Sodium Salt.\mdash ; As the salt does not crystallise well , the solutions were made up by adding the calculated quantity of acid to a standard solution of soda , made from sodium -free water .
, I II The figures under I and II were obtained from distinct solutions : from the above , which is about the normal value for nonhydrolysed sodium salts .
The speeds of the and sodium ions are ively : so tlJat and For the method of obtaining the value of compare l of the Acid.\mdash ; Sample I was recrystallised from water , sample II from benzeue .
The solution at each dilution was made up separately , as the use of pipettes is not advisable when dealing with solutions of such feeble Mr. J. Johnston .
[ May 21 , It is evident that the Ostwald " " dissociation constant\ldquo ; has here no real application , since it rises by 50 per cent. in the comparatively small range of dilutions studied .
Conductivities calculated from Walker 's equations .
The divergence between the experimental and the calculated values of does not exceed the conductivity of the solvent water .
Ester of -Methylarnunobenzoic Acid , was prepared by an method to that iven on p. 84 .
In this case , however , the hydrochloride did Jlot separate out , and the ester was precipitated by means of sodium .
It crystallised from roin in the form of small white plates , to per cent. gramme unmonia equivalent to ramme N requires N This substance is soluble in benzene , alcohol , and ether , it does not crystallise well from them , but it is almost insoluble in water .
Determination of Basic Constant\mdash ; Distribution Method .
1906 .
] The Affinity of nphoteric Electrolytes .
From I\mdash ; Concentration of free base in water N. Concentration of total base N. Whence concentration of salt is , and of acid N. Therefore 182 .
Similarly , from II\mdash ; 164 .
Mean value of p-Di , , laminobenzoic Acid , By the action of methyl sulphate upon the crude -methylaminobenzoic acid the process of methylation can be carried step further .
The mode of procedure is identical with that described for the preparation of the monomethyl acid .
By recrystallising the } ) roduct from 50 per cent. aqueous alcohol , -dimethylaminobenzoic acid separates out in fine white needles , which melt at 230 to , and are identical with the product tained by the action of on dimethylanilin The yield is practically quantitative .
DimethylaminobeIlzoic acid , though soluble in alcohol , is not very soluble in ether or benzene , and is almost insoluble in water .
Determination of Basic Constant\mdash ; Solubility Method .
Solubility in Water .
A. Solution superheated\mdash ; I , ramme per litre } B. , , not superheated\mdash ; I , , II , .
I. Solubility in HCI gramme per N. II .
, , , , , , N. From I\mdash ; And from II\mdash ; Mean value of * Michler , ' Berichte , ' vol. 9 , p. 401 , 1876 .
Mr. J. Johnston .
[ May 21 , Determination of the Acidic Constant.\mdash ; The only practicable way of this was by conductivity measurements , and this could only be done at one dilution .
The Shields method was tried , but the insolubility of the acid prevented accurate titration , and rendered the method invalid .
Conductivity of the Sodium Salt .
The difference , , is again nearly nol'mal , showing that there is not much hydrolysis .
as on p. 89 , and Conductivity of the Acid .
I , II , and III were distinct solutions .
Conductivity calculated from ) , , and from the above values fur lJster of obenzoic Acid , This ester was prepared in the same as the ester of the omethyl acid ; it recrystalli es from ethyl alcohol in white plates , melting at Determination of the Basic \mdash ; The distribution method was tried , but proved unsatisfactory , owing to the excessive magnitude of the distribution-ratio between benzene and water .
The constant was determined by the solubility method . .
Bischoff , ' Berichte , ' vol. 22 , p. 343 , 1889 .
1906 .
] The Affinity of Amphoteric Electrol .
Solubility in water gralnme per litre N. I. , , , , , , II .
, , , , , , N. From I\mdash ; And from II\mdash ; Mean value of Acid This substance was prepared by the action of methyl iodide on either -aminobenzoic acid or its derivativ The iodide was recrystallised from water , and decomposed by the action of moist silver hydroxide the cold .
If the mixture is heated , a basic substance is obtained , which has not yet been ated .
The benzbetaine was purified by recrystallisation from absolute alcohol , from which it separated in cubes , at Iodine found per cent. COOH reqnires I Determination of Basic Constant\mdash ; Catalysis Method .
gramme iodide in .
water , 1 MeAc , I. * Compare Michael and Wing , ' Amer .
Chem. Journ. , vol. 7 , p. ) .
Mr. J. ohnston .
[ May 21 , solution cent. cent. , From I\mdash ; And from II\mdash ; Mean for Determination of the Acidic Constant\mdash ; Salt Hydrolysis .
A.\mdash ; 25 NaOH , MeAc , B.\mdash ; As , but with gramme 50 .
water .
-benzbetaine added .
It is here evident that reaction proceeded almost as quickly as reaction , a fact which shows that the sodium salt of ) etaine is almost entirely hydrolysed in solution .
Now if 4 per cent. remained unhydrolysed , that would correspond to a value of less than 3 ; so it may with certainty be st , ated that the value of cannot be greater than The smallest value of deduced from conductivity measurements 1 between and ; it was , therefore , useless to attempt the further purification of the substance by crystallisation , on account of its great solubility and its small inherent conductivity .
1906 .
] Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
-Benzbetainc Iodide , This salt was by heating equivalent quantities of methyl iodide and the methyl ester of -dimethylaminobenzoic acid at 10 for five hours in a sealed tube .
On cooling and opening ) tube , the mixture was extracted with water .
After filtration , the aqueous solution was evaporated down , when iodide separated .
Colourless crystals were by recrystallisation fro1n aqueous alcohol:\mdash ; Iodine found per cent. requires I A decinormal solution had an acid reaction to azolitmin , but did not affect methyl orange or congo red .
The catalytic action of an aqueous solution of the iodide on nlethyl acetate was too slow to yield a definite value for the basic constant of the substance .
Methyl Ester of cine , This was prepared in an analogous nner to the other methyl esters .
On , crystals of the hydrochloride separated in the form of white ] ates .
After recrystallisation from methyl alcohol , the hydrochloride melts at to 17 with decomposition .
Chlorine found per cent. requires Cl Determination of Basic Constant\mdash ; Catalysis Method .
I. gramme hydrochloride in 15 .
water , 1 Mr. J. Johnston .
[ May 21 , II .
Cl solution cent. cent. , From I\mdash ; AIId from II\mdash ; Mean value for ? .
In these experiments nitrophenol was found to be the best indicator , but was 1lot satisfactory .
Jthlyl Est of cine , COOC H A specimen of the hydrochloride obtained from Kahlbaum was tallised from absolute alcohol .
Chlorine found ) per cent. Cl A methyl acetate catalysis experiment with the.hydrochloride showed that the ethyl ester of glycine was a stronger ] ) than the meth.yl ester , but the action proceeded too slowly to admit of an calculation of the basic constant .
COOH .
This substance was prepared to the method given by Eschweiler .
* Equivalent quantities of a 33-per-cent .
aqueous solution of and of formaldehyde-cyanhydrin mixed .
Afber for 24 hours the resulting nitrile was extracted with ether , and , after removal of the ether , was saponified with baryta .
barium was removed by means of onic anhydride , and the solution was evaporated to dryness .
The residue was dissolved in absolute alcohol , from which it afterwards separated in exceedingly hygroscopic crystals , which melted to ' Liel) 's Annalen , ' , p. 44 , 1894 .
1906 .
] The Affinity of Arnphoteric Electrolytes .
gramme gave ammonia equivalent to gramme N per cent. N A sample of the hydrochloride was prepared by with hydrochloric acid .
On recrystallising it from alcohol , it was obtained in the form of white hygroscopic crystals , at 19 with decomposition .
gramme gave an1monia equivalent to gramme per cent. Chlorine found .COOH .
HCI reqniresN , Cl Determination of Basic Constant\mdash ; Catalysis Method .
I. gramme hydrochloride in 15 .
water , 1 MeAc , Cl solution cent. cent. , Ir .
gramme hydrochloride in 15 .
water , 1 MeAc , Cl solution cent. cent. , VOL. LXXVIII.\mdash ; A. 98 Mr. J. Johnston .
[ May 21 , In II the temperature of the thermostat increased slightly during the course of the reaction ; the comparison solution was going simultaneously , and wtffl similarly affected .
Mean value of mination of the .\mdash ; The conductivity method was tried , but , owing to the very slight conducting power and to the difficulties ; recrystallisation , it gave too hjgh results ; the smallest value of obtained by this means was Shields ' Method .
gramme dimethylglycine , 25 soda , 10 MeAc solution , Whence , and Betaine hydrochloride was obtained by the saponification of betaine ethyl ester hydrochloride , which was effected by boiling for four hours with dilute hydrochloric acid .
After partial evaporation of the water , beautiful white crystals of betaine hydrochloride out , and were dried in a desiccator:\mdash ; Chlorine found per cent. requires 1906 .
] The Affi olytes .
Determination of the Basic Constant\mdash ; Catalysis Method .
I. , ramme hydrochloride in 10 .
water , 1 c.c. MeAc , II .
gramme hydrochloride in 15 .
water , 1 MeAc , litre .
Mean Cl solution cent. cent. , Whence and from II\mdash ; Mean value for Bredig*from the electrical conductivity calculated the value Determination of the Acidic Constant.\mdash ; In carrying this out , the hydrochloride was used along with two equivalents of , on account of the difficulty in pure betaine .
This , however , answered the purpose equally well , for Shields states that the presence of a neutral salt exerts practically no influence on the velocity of the reaction:\mdash ; ' Zeit .
physikal .
Chem vol. 13 , p. 323 , 1894 .
100 Mr. J. Johnston .
[ May 21 , A.\mdash ; 25 NaOH , gramme betaine hydrochloMeAc , .
water .
ride , 50 NaOH , MeAc , .
water .
As in the case of -benzbetaine , it is evident that cannot exceed , Betaine Ethyl Ester Chloride .
This salt was prepared by adding an equivalent of methyl chloracetate to a solution of trimethylamine in absolute alcohol .
After standing some time the alcohol was partially evaporated off , and on cooling , the substance separated out as white extremely hygroscopic crystals , which melted at to , with decomposition:\mdash ; gramme gave ammonia equivalent to gramme , per cent. Chlorine found requires , Cl , , , Cl The substance by its composition and melting-point was thus proved to be the ethyl ester chloride , the formation of which was due to the choice of ethyl alcohol as solvent .
* Determination of Basic Constant\mdash ; Catalysis Method .
I. gramme substance in 15 .
water , 1 MeAc , * Compare Koeppen , ' Berichte , ' vol. 38 , p. 167 , 1905 .
1906 .
] The Affinity Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
0.2945 gramme substance in 15 .
water , 1 MeAc , Cl solution cent. cent. , From I\mdash ; And from II\mdash ; Mean value for This value can only be regarded as approximate , owing to the length of time over which the action extended .
Summary of Results .
* The values pel.taining to the substances marked with an asterisk are derived from Winkelblech 's measurements .
cit and , except in the case of -aminobenzoic acid , are not strictly comparable with my results .
102 The Constants of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
* The values pertaining to the substances marked with an asterisk are derlved from Winkelblech 's measurements ( loc. and , except in the case of -aminobenzoic acid , are not strictly comparable with my results .
\mdash ;

