]\gt ; Mr. F. W. Aston .
Experiments on the [ Nov. 29 , slow and the solutions were too dilute to allow of the detection of evolved gas with certainty : a small amount of a reddish solid , probably ferric oxide , was frequently observed , which was due to oxidation by traces of dissolved oxygen .
The red solution in pyridine appears to be quite stable to light ; no change can be after long exposure .
Bxperiments on the Length of the Cathode Dark with Varying Current Densities Pressures in Different Gases .
By FnANCIS WILLIAM ASTON , A.I.C. , Research Scholar at the University of Birmingham .
( Communicated by Professor J. H. Poynting , F.R.S. Received November 29 , \mdash ; Read December 13 , 1906 .
) During some experiments with various types of vacuum tubes the author was led by the behaviour of one in particular to believe that conditions were possible under which the length of the cathode dark space might be an accurately measurable antity .
This tube is shown in .
The aluminium disc cathode is movable and exactly fits the tube containing the anode A. If it is placed to the right in the bulb and a current from a coil passed , the dark space assumes a highly indefinite and irregular form , such as is indicated .
If , FIG. 1 .
however , is slid to the left , right into the tube , the boundary of the negative glow becomes a very definite plane to the cathode , its distance from the cathode being the same for all positions of the latter so long as it is inside the tube and the current from the coil kept constant .
1906 .
] Length of the Space .
These conditions , viz. : that the cathode is a flat plate and fills the cylinder of the discharge tube\mdash ; have a great advantage over those under which the previous measurements were made by Eber the edge of the negative glow is a plane and can be seen without looking through the negative glow .
The first series of measurements were made with a tube of this type shown in fig. 2 , the cathode being an iron plate 4 cm .
diameter .
The tube FIG. 2 .
was connected to a special form of Topler pump of small capacity and to Rayleigh manometer reading to mm. A very large coil working at a low amperage was used in order to keep the curl'ent as constant as possible .
The length of the dark space was measured by means of a telescope cathetometer , and its relation to the pressure was plotted for hydrogen , nitrogen , air , and oxygen .
In all these gases for values of between and 2 cm .
the appended curves ( Table A ) show the relation to be approximately linear , satisfying Che equation , where about 1 nun .
for all rrases , a constant for any particu ] and not to " " mean free path but roughly to the velocities of its ions found Ebert , ' Wied .
Ann vol. 69 , pp. 200 , 372 , 1899 .
Rayleigh , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 196 , ) , 1901 .
Zeleny , ' Phil. TIans , vol. 195 , p. 193 , 1900 .
Mr. F. W. Aston .
Experiments on the [ Nov. 29 , and the coefficient of diffusion of its ions by Townsend .
* This very interesting result led to the fitting up of apparatus by which experiments on could be made with the current under control , and it is with this apparatus , the results obtained , and their possible bearing on the nature of the dark space , that this paper deals .
The four variables to be measured were current ( c ) flowing through the tube , potential difference between electrodes ( V ) , pressure of the gas ( P ) , and length of dark space ( D ) .
urrent.\mdash ; The coil was replaced by a battery of 480 accumulators applied direct to the tube which , when in series with the city mains , commanded a potential of over 1000 volts .
The current was controlled by a very large variable liquid resistance , consisting of tubes containing water or a solution of copper sulphate with movable electrodes of platinum or copper respectively .
It was measured by shunting it through a standard resistance connected with a sensitive D'Arsonval galvanometer , which was carefully calibrated by known currents .
With 1 ohm in shunt and 1 milliampere passing through main circuit , the galvanometer gave a deflection of 25 divisions , so that each division electrostatic units .
Potential.\mdash ; Two Kelvin electrostatic voltmeters were employed , total range of 200 to 950 volts .
Pressure.\mdash ; In order to obtain the low pressures , special form of Topler pump was used at first , but subsequently replaced by a cocoanut charcoal absorption tube cooled in liquid air , by which means mercury vapour was eliminated from the gas under consideration .
This method of obtaining vacua was found extremely convenient and rapid , it being possible by its aid to reduce the pressure in the large and complicated apparatus of volume considerably over 1 litre from several millimetres to mm. in a few minutes .
Measurement of the pressure was made by means of a Rayleigh manometer .
In order to eliminate the vibration of the building , which during king hours quite masked the sensitivity of the instrument , after many trials the suspension shown in fig. 3 was adopted .
The long stalk of the manometer was passed through a rubber bung which closed the lower end .
of a wide glass tube fixed to the tilting table and filled Townsend , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 193 , p. 129 , 1900 .
1906 .
] Length the Cathode Dark with engine oil , forming a jacket which effectually damped all horizontal vibrations transmitted to tffi head of the manometer through the stalk .
One member of the head was connected to the stop-cock by means of a thin drawn out glass tube , the thicker part of which , near the head , was clamped to a small billet of wood immersed in an oil bath , the system forming a dash pot which successfully isolated the head from horizontal vibration derived from stop-cock which was fixed to the tilting table and connected by a flexible glass tube to the apparatus .
The zero of the manometer , the reading when pressure in the right-hand bulb , was obtained by evacuating the head to the highest degree possible with the Topler pump while the level of the mercury was below the junction of bulbs .
The mercury was then allowed to rise and the reading taken as zero .
A value of the zero could now be obtained when required without the necessity of the mercury below the junction , simply by pumping until the instrument showed no further alteration , for , since the pressure in the left-hand bulb is exceedingly small , and its volume from the construction of the apparatus practically constant , its variation during any set of readings must be entirely negligible .
The actual adjustment of the points was performed with the help of a microscope and mirror arranged as indicated in fig. 4 , by means of which both points and both reflections could be seen in the field at once , a very great advantage in making the close comparison between them .
The scale of the manometer was so arranged that each division mm. FIG 5 .
FIG. 4 .
pressure , or dynes per square centimetre .
The instrument was read to of a division .
A zero was frequently taken , as it varied considerably from time to time , owing to the movements of the supports of the manometer and its reading telescope .
For all gases , except hydrogen , the zero was precisely the same , whether the exhaustion was performed by Mr. F. W. Aston .
Experiments on the [ Nov. 29 , liquid air or the Topler pump .
In the case of hydrogen the absorption at very low pressures by the cooled charcoal wa@t so slow that the manometer had to be connected to the Topler pump for a reliable zero to be obtained .
Length of Dark Space.\mdash ; The best way of measuring this quantity was found to be a simple sighting arrangement consisting of a brass tube 35 cm .
long by 4 cm .
wide , one end of which was closed by a cap drilled centrally with a small eye hole , the other end being fitted with a -shaped pointer .
This tube was mounted on a sliding scale so as to be always exactly parallel to the cathode while moving perpendicular to it .
The reading was taken when the point of the sighter exactly coincided with the edge of the dark space , when the appearance through the eye hole was as shown in fig. 5 .
In hydrogen , nitrogen , and air the pointer was set at the position where the most marked change in appearance took place , this being so definite\mdash ; under conditions of current density mentioned below\mdash ; that with a little practice it could be set to about mm. In the case of oxygen the sharpness of the edge was simply amazing ; in this gas , even with so large a dark space as 3 cm .
, the sighter could be set as accurately as to the cathode itself , i.e. , to about mm. Owing , unfortunately , to serious irregularities in the glass walls of the containing cylinder , no such accuracy applies to the actual measurement of D. These results only hold when the current density is so high that no " " positive light\ldquo ; was visible on the anode , i.e. , very much higher than that required to cover the cathode with glow .
Under these conditions it was found by trial with movable electrodes that their distance apart , so long was longer than the dark space itself , no measurabte effect on either dark space , voltage , or current .
If the anode plate is moved slowly towards the cathode , at the instant their distance apart equals the length of the dark space at prevailing conditions , the discharge alters abruptly in character , flickers and ceases , showing that the negative glow is not only an optical effect of , but an essential factor in , the mechanism of conduction , and that the length of the dark space can be measured , if necessary , by purely electrical means .
Discharge Tube.\mdash ; The first discharge tube was one of cm .
diameter , the electrodes being flat aluminium plates , just filling it , 12 cm .
apart .
The dark space was found to decrease with increased current density , and so long as its length was small , compared to the diameter of the tube , the following two equations were nearly satisfied:\mdash ; ' ( 1 ) .
( 2 ) 1906 .
] Length of the Dark A and were constants roughly proportional to the velocity of the ions of the gas , and constants , and roughly constant for different gases .
Theory of the Dark Space.\mdash ; These two empirical equations , together with the behaviour of the current with movable electrodes , led the author to the conclusion that , at any rate as an approximation , the space may be regarded as a region of positive etectrification travelling iowards the cathode in which the total positive exactly balances tloe negatire chargc on the cathode .
Assume the negative density in the dark space to be igible .
Let density of positive electricity at a distance from negative glow , -charge per square centimetre on cathode , electric force at distance ; then if we take cathode and negative glow as infinite planes a distance apart\mdash ; By the above hypothesis ; thus Let velocity of positive ion ; assume , where velocity in unit field .
Also , since at all points current density carried by positive ions , , so that ; therefore Thus ; hence const .
As the electric force in the negative glow is ible , we have finally ; ; Let fall of potential across dark space , then If we assume this current carried by the positive ions to be the whole or a constant fraction of the total current passing between the cathode and the negative glow , then\mdash ; Mr. F. W. Aston .
Experiments on the [ Nov. 29 , Townsend* has shown that the coefficients of diffusion of ions are inversely proportional to the pressures .
Assuming that this is true for the velocities of positive ions at the range of pressure in these investigations , we should expect from the theory that equals an absolute constant for a given gas .
It will be seen that if we make so large that the third terms of the empirical equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are negligible they satisfy this result .
In the formulation and subsequent testing of the theory above the following phenomenon was of importance .
When was large , the discharge at the cathode had the appearance indicated in fig. 6 , there being a ring on the outside of the cathode of thickness varying with , which did not appear to take part in the discharge at all .
The curve of faint glow shown could be easily seen , and , the distance from the side of the tube to the working part of the cathode , was roughly measured and found to be linear with , and apparently independent of the nature of the gas .
For and oxygen for this particular tube .
This result appears to be due to the presence of a positive charge on the glass walls in the dark space .
Several observations point to the conclusion that only that part of the cathode inside carries any current , and from this it follows that in order to get a measurement of the true current density in the dark space this edge effect must be eliminated , and , secondly , that if current is carried across the dark space by positive ions , practically all of these must be generated in the negative glow , a result which is corroborated by the behaviour of the tube when the electrodes are moved nearer together .
FIG. 6 .
FIG. 7 .
In order to get rid of this edge effect a large cylindrical bottle ( fig. 7 ) was used , cm .
in diameter .
The cathode was made in two insulated parts , a guard ring BB filling the tube , and a central circular plate cm .
in diameter , both being turned out of the same aluminium plate .
The interval between the two was about mm. , so that when both were * Townsend , ' Phil. , vol. 195 , p. 259 , 1900 .
1906 .
] Length of the Cathode Dark connected to the battery , as shown in fig. 8 , the whole behaved exactly as one large plate .
That portion of the current passing through A only was sent through the shunt of the galvanometer and read off , and as was small compared to this gave a reliable measure of the current density at the middle of the cathode , for so long as the latter is clean and flat there seems no reason to suppose the current density to be other than uniform over the central alea remote from the glass walls ; in fact , the absolute parallelism of the cathode and negative glow renders such a supposition unlikely .
The area of the working part of the cathode A is sq .
cm .
, which gives 8748 electrostatic units of current per square centimetle per division deflection of the galvanometer .
As the discharge tube was not perfectly cylindrical , current density above a certain limit\mdash ; 80 divisions for ydrogen , 60 for other gases\mdash ; could not be employed , as at that point the back of the cathode started discharging through the space between the guard and the walls .
The form of the anode does not appear to affect the discharge , but for uniformity it was made an aluminium disc filling the tube and parallel to the cathode .
The distance between the electrodes in this tube was cm .
Fig. 8 gives a plan of the general arrangement of the apparatus .
battery ; , variable liquid resistance ; , standard shunt ; , D'Arsonval galvanometer ; , " " guard ring\ldquo ; cathode ; , static voltmeter ; , anode Mr. F. W. Aston .
Experimaents on the [ Nov. 29 , , sighter for measuring dark space ; , bulb containing and gas in use ; , cocoanut charcoal absorption tube for immersion in liquid air .
The gases , the results of which are given , were : hydrogen from zinc and sulphuric acid ; nitrogen from air by absorption by phosphorus ; air ; and oxygen from a cylinder .
They were admitted to the discharge tube perfectly dry and impurities derived from the electrodes , etc. , in the tube eliminated as far as possible by heavy discharges and repeated washings with fresh gas .
The resistance was adjusted till the galvanometer indicated the current required , when the dark space and voltage were read off as quickly as possible .
The pressure generally varied slightly during a set of readings , sometimes and sometimes decreasing , the number quoted being the mean .
The results are given in Tables I , II , III , ( pp. 93\mdash ; 95 ) , where it will be seen that is roughly constant for each gas .
If we assume absolute pressure , the velocity of a positive ion in a field of 1 electrostatic unit per centimetre at a pressure of 1 dyne per square centimetre , then , from theory , where ything is measured in absolute electrostatic units .
Thus for oxygen is educing this value to that for a field of 1 volt per centimetre and a pressure of 1 atmosphere , we can compare the iomc velocities so found with those determined by Zeleny .
* They are as follows , in centimetres per second:\mdash ; Velocity Velocity from Gas .
( Zeleny ) .
dark space .
Hydrogen Nitrogen . .
\mdash ; Air Oxygen These results free quite as well as could be expected , considering that the gas in these two methods was at pressures of 760 mm. and below 0.0- mm. respectively , and seem to gest but little alteration in for positive ions over this very large range of pressure .
As they are obtained by giving the value of the whole current density given by the galvanometer reading , they represent maxima .
We have at present no evidence to show the relative percentage of current carried by \mdash ; ions respectively in the dark space ; the difference between their mechanical energies can , however , be very prettily shown by 1906 .
] Length of the Dark Space .
the experiment .
A tube was made , in which two similar light mica mills , with vanes , and respectively set at to the cathode , were FIG. 9 .
mou nted one above the other , so that when a moderate current was passed , the mill was wholly inside , the upper wholly outside the dark space .
Under these conditions the vane , situated in the negative glow , showed a barely perceptible motion to the left , while the one in the dark space rotated violently in the opposite direction .
The momentum carried the current towards the cathode is therefore greatly in excess of that carried away from it .
The phenomenon , described by Wehnelt , an obstacle in the dark space casting shadows both , is very beautifully shown by the lower mill , its moving shadow on the surface of the cathode being very clear , while , if its rotation is not too rapid , distinct interference with the slow motion of the upper mill can be detected , doubtless due to the intermittent cessation of the corpuscular bombardment , causing the rotation of the latter .
Still assuming , for the sake of simplicity , that all the current is carried by positive ions , we may calculate , by the theory above , the absolute values of and at any point in the dark space .
Thus in hydrogen with a dark space of 1 cm .
and a current of 70 isions deflection ( about milliampere per square centimetre ) at the surface of the cathode , cm .
In oxygen with the same dark space and a current giving 40 divisions deflection , at the surface of the cathode , cm .
These velocities are about 1/ 10 those measured directly by Wien at a very much lower pressure and higher potential for Canal-Strahlen .
* Wehnelt , ' Wied .
Ann vol. 67 , , 1899 .
Wien , ' Wied .
Ann vol. 65 , p. 440 , 1898 .
Mr. F. W. Aston .
Experiments on the [ Nov. 29 , As the velocities quoted above are maxima for the positive ions in the dark space under the conditions mentioned , and about one thousand times less than the smallest velocity measured for cathode rays , the fundamental assumption made in the theory that at any point in the dark space the density of the ative ions is negligible compared with that of the positive ones seems to be upheld by these numbers , as it is also by the results of some determinations of the number of ions present at various points along the discharge , made by Professor J. J. Thomson .
* In oxygen with cm .
, divisions deflection at a point 1 mm. from negative glow , , or adopting the accepted values of and one to about 500,000 molecules .
The limits of the length of the dark space appear to be purely dependent upon the dimensions of the discharge tube and the pressure of the gas .
Thus , in the tube shown in fig. 7 , a dark space of the order of 10 cm .
could be observed , while in a very small one , in which the cathode was an aluminium plate only mm. wide , a dark space was measured of about cm .
( in air at about 20 mm. pressure ) ; one of similar dimensions could be clearly seen when a current was passed between platinum wires in the flame of a small gas jet .
The relations between current and voltage for the discharge from the * J. J. Thomson , ' Phil. Mag. ' Ser. , vol. 1 , , 1901 .
1906 .
] Length of the Space 91 guard ring\ldquo ; cathode are shown in the foregoing curves .
It will be seen that at low pressures the approximation to the equation is very close indeed , particularly for hydrogen .
The following are the mean values of in absolute electrostatic units and of in volts:\mdash ; Gas .
F. E. Nitrogen 230 Air 230 appears to be nearly the same as the cathode fall for aluminium cathodes in those gases in which it has been determined .
Since , by theory , , assuming mean free path in the same gas velocity of ions number of collisions of corpuscle in dark space a constanta variable , which seems to suggest that the secondary ions formed in the dark space are the ones by which the ionisation in the negative is maintained .
The author offers the following of a purely speculative nature , to account for the existence of the dark space and its That , under the impact of positive ions , the aluminium cathode is capable of discharging corpuscles with sufficient velocity to ionise the gas , their numbers and ionising effect at the negative glow being functions of the velocity and mass of the positive ions and the length of the dark space .
That bove a certain minimum current density , which has been shown to be a function of the pressure , gas , under a corpuscular bombardment of a certain intensity , gets into an unstable state comparable to that of a flame in which the available ions are so numerous that the gas behaves much as a liquid electrolyte , the electric force at any point being very small ; this is the negative glow .
It is conceivable that in this flame state the colliding ions of opposite do not always recombine instantly and completely to form neutral molecules , but may do so partially , kinetic systems requiring but little energy from colliding corpuscles and transfer of charge among themselves to support their active existence .
Such systems would probably fly to pieces in a very small electric field , so that the instant one diffuses across the boundary of the negative glow towards the cathode\mdash ; a region the field of which has already H. A. Wilson , ' Phil. Mag Ser. , vol. 4 , p. 608 , 1902 .
92 Mr. F. W. Aston .
Experiments on the [ Nov. 29 , been discussed\mdash ; it is destroyed , the positive member travelling towards the cathode , while the charge of negative electrification left behind is transferred almost instantaneously by a system of exchanges to the anode which we will suppose in the negative glow .
If the breaking strain of these systems is small and definite , the boundary of their existence will be sharply defined , and in oxygen this is the case to a very striking degree ; in fact , it is the extreme sharpness of the edge of the negative glow in this gas which seems to necessitate some such explanation as this .
Further support is given by the presence of brilliant lines in the spectrum of the negative glow , which disappear almost entirely in that of the dark space .
Leaving out of account the current carried from the cathode by the , it is plain that equilibrium will be reached when the number of positive ions diffusing past the boundary of the negative glow is just sufficient to maintain the current passing through the tube .
This number must certainly be some function of the density of ionisation maintained in that part of the negative glow which in its turn depends on the available energy of the bombarding corpuscles .
This last we have assumed to be dependent upon the velocity and mass of the positive ions and the length of the dark space .
Hence , for equilibrium , the length of the dark space must adjust itself so that the conditions of impact of the positive ions will give a stream of corpuscles exactly sufficient to supply the ionising energy required in the negative glow at that particular current .
This energy , when once the discharge has started , may very well be small , in which case the number of corpuscles discharged by the cathode may be small compared with the number of positive ions striking it , which appears likely to be the case .
Such a theory as the above explains to some extent the unsatisfactory results obtained in measurement of the dark space by previous investigators , and also the remarkable anomalies of conductivity , etc. , foumd in such tubes as the Crookes -tube , as the cathode in all these cases was so placed that the area of the negative glow and the distribution of the field between it and the cathode were quantities of unmanageable complication .
In conclusion , I wish to express my indebtedness to Professor J. H. Poynting for the means by which the experiments were carried out and for his kind help and advice at every point in the investigation , the mathematical part in particular .
1906 .
] Length of the Dark Space .
Table I.\mdash ; Hydrogen .
Current in galvanometer divisions .
Length of dark space in centimetres .
V Difference of potential in volts .
Pressure in manometer divisions .
Table II.\mdash ; Nitrogen .
Mr. F. W. Aston .
Experiments on the [ Nov. 29 , Table II\mdash ; continued .
Table III.\mdash ; Air .
1906 .
] Length of the Table VOL. LXXIX.\mdash ; A.

