II .
" On a Decimal Compass Card .
" By James M. Share , Esq. , Master R.N. Communicated by Rear-Admiral Smyth , Foreign Secretary R.S. Received April 23 , 1855 .
The mariners ' compass-needle having of late years received great improvements , I am of opinion it is high time the card , as at present arranged , should take its place by the side of such things as are superseded by others better adapted to the advancing spirit of the times .
I venture to make an attempt to innovate on an old custom , by suggesting the substitution of a compass card containing thirty-six points of ten degrees each-every degree being one-tenth of a point .
By the use of this card the mariner will avoid the constantly recurring trouble of turning degrees into points , and vice versed .
The ship 's course having been worked out in degrees , the deviation and local attraction have but to be applied to adapt it to the decimal steering card , thus rendering the " traverse table for points " no longer necessary to those steering by it ; the course N. 35 ?
E. being the same as " north three and a half points east , " &amp;c. The same remark applies also to astronomical bearings , azimuths , amplitudes , &amp;c. Should the decimal card be adopted , the old-fashioned method of " boxing the compass , " which takes young people so long to become familiar with , will be entirely superseded , and I think the sooner such method becomes obsolete the better it will be for the interests of the mariner , for , together with other advantages , the tedious operation of a " day 's work " will be divested of half the usual trouble .
When giving a course to the " quarter-master , " or " man at the wheel , " no mistake , so liable to be the case at present , can well occur ; it will merely be necessary to direct him to steer , for instance , " north five points east , " or more briefly , " north five east , " " south six west , " &amp;c. &amp;c. I recollect an instance of a vessel steering N.W. by N. N. , instead of W. by N. " N. during thick weather in the Bristol Channel , thus running into danger from the similarity of sound between the courses alluded to .
The practical application of the decimal card would not materially affect the charts previously published , which could have printed compasses containing thirty-six points pasted over the others .
Such might be sold by any chart-seller .

