]\gt ; 434 Rev. H. .
C. Logall on the Calculus of Factorials .
[ June18 , 4 .
On the action of such compounds as ( chinoline ) ( parvoline\amp ; c ( collidine ) with C ( conia , from hemlock ) , or ( dipyridine ) with ( nicotine , from , it is to be observed that the physiological activity of the substance is , palt from chemical structure , greatest in those bases contaiJJing the rger amount of hydrogen .
5 .
Those bases which approximate the percentage composition of natural bnses much weaker physiologically , so far as can be estiby amount of dose , than the natural bases ; but the kind of action is the same in both cftses .
6 .
When the bases of the pyridine series are doubled by condensation , producing dipyridine , parapicoline , \amp ; c. , they not only become more active physiologically , but the action differs in kind from that of the simple bases , and resembles the action of bases or ] kaloids having a similar chemical constitution .
7 .
All the substances examined in this research are remarkable for not possessing any specific parnlytic action on the heart likely to cause syncope ; but they destroy life either by exhaustive oonvulsions , 01 by gradual ysis of the centres of respiration , thus causing 8 .
There is no reciable i aotion om the sympathetic system of nerves .
There is probably a secondary action , becnuse after doses the vasomotor centre , in common with other centres , becomes involved .
9 .
There is no difference , so far as could be discovered , between the physiological ction of bases ined from cinchoniue and those from tar .
XVI .
' On the Calculus of Factorials.\ldquo ; By the Rev. H. F. C. LOGAN , .D .
Communicated by Professor , F.R.S. Received November 10 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) Our present vledge of what is called pure lysis h for its concl.ete basis the general theory of This science the author might , after Wronski , sanctioned by Lagrange , have called algorithmie , but he prefers giving it the designation of Powers .
The nple functions whose properties and reJations it is the object of this tter calculus to determine are , first , the three direct functions or gorithms , ; secondly , their thrce inverse functions or algorithms , ( or ) , The author to bJish a new branch of analysis or rithmie , which is based upon the general theory of , and in ] which 1874 .
] On the Meteorological Use of a Planimeter .
433 simple fmlctions or itlgorithms hose properties relations it is the province of this new calcnlus to determine , and .
inverse tnken basc , or and The lculus so fouuded the uthor proposes to cnll the of The branches of the subject treated of in the memoir be mderstood from the list of contents of the tioJlS hich it is divided : \mdash ; Ch. I. S 1 .
ion properties of } when ?
is a number .
S2 .
orials negative hole S3 .
of the indcx a S4 .
Factorials of hich the iudex is a ion .
S5 .
Factorial Ch. II .
S 1 .
Application of the theory of finitc differences fo factorials .
S2 .
Di#erellcitiol of ) and gnrithms .
S3 .
clopment of XVII .
the ployment of to obtain Iean Values from the traces of continuously logical Instruments By H. ] Received May 1874 .
It is hardly to remind tho that { hc instrumeJlts employed by { he vatories for the colltin]ous tion o pressure furnish their ults i the of ustttll method of dealing ith these rograms 1 thQv al.e called , is to them ) to treat the ) lmeri 1alues so ) rilhnlei i prooesses so as to mean results .
This method is ) cry boriou ttlld its author uses this to denotc that in the nlus of crcnccs takes the placc of crcntintion in the diffcrential

