6 .
On the Constitution of Pigotite , and on the Mudesous and Mudesic Acids .
By James F. W. Johnston , Esq. , M.A. , F.R.S. In this paper the author describes a substance , found by himself and by the Rev. M. Pigot , forming an incrustation on the sides of certain caves , occurring in the granitic clifFs on the east and west coast of Cornwall .
This incrustation is in mass of a brown , and in powder of a yellow colour ; is insoluble in water and alcohol ; when heated , it gives off much water , blackens , yields empyreumatic pro ?
ducts , and leaves a black mass , having occasionally the lustre of graphite .
In the air , at a bright red heat , this mass very slowly burns , leaving a grey or white ash , which consists of alumina , with some slight foreign admixtures .
The organic constituent of this substance ( pigotite ) , the author considers to be derived from the decay of the various plants which grow on the moist moorlands above , and which , being carried by the waters into the fissures of the granite beneath , combines with the alumina of the decomposed felspar ; and when it reaches the air , deposits itself on the roof and sides of the caverns , in the form of layers , varying from a line to two or three inches in thickness .
With reference to its supposed origin , the author has given to the organic constituent the name of mudesous acid ( from pvdrjaris , signifying decay through excess of moisture ) , and he mentions an observation , communicated to him by Dr. Bouse , that the roots of the sea pink ( Statice armeria ) contain a colouring matter resembling , in appearance , the solutions of the mudesous acid .
From numerous experiments and analyses detailed at length in his paper , the author derives the following general results : 1 .
That the native pigotite contains a dark-brown soluble , not deliquescent acid of vegetable origin , which , in the anhydrous state , is represented by C12 H6 08 .
2 .
That this acid , the mudesous , is tribasic , the salt of silver ( mudesite ) , being represented by ( 3 A(J O -+C12H5 08 ) , and pre ?
cipitates the salts of the metallic oxides of a brown colour .
3 .
That the native mudesite of alumina ( Pigotite ) is repre ?
sented as follows : a. Dried in the air by ( 4 Al + C1 &lt; 2H5 08 + 27 H O ) .
b. Dried at 212 ?
F. by ( 4 M+ Cl2H5 08 + 8H O ) , losing 27 per cent. of water .
c. Dried at 300 ?
F. by ( 4 Al + C12H5 0K +8H0 ) , losing 32 per cent. of water .
4 .
That this native mudesite , however , is more probably a compound of the organic tribasic salt , with a hydrate of alumina , and may be rationally represented thus : a. Dried in the air by ( Al + C12H508 -fQHO ) +3 ( Al + 6HO ) .
b. Dried at 212 ?
F. by ( A1 + CIQH508 + 4HO ) -f3 ( Al + 2HO ) .
c. Dried at 300 ?
F. by ( Al + C12H , Os + 2HO ) +3 ( Al + 2H O ) .
5 .
That when treated with nitric acid , the native mudesite , as well as the mudesous acid itself , are oxidized and converted into a new brownish-yellow , soluble and deliquescent acid , containing more oxygen , and in the anhydrous state represented by C1(2 H5 O10 .
6 .
That this new acid , the mudesic , combines readily with alu ?
mina and protoxide of mercury , giving salts of a yellow colour .
Both the acids described in this paper are distinguished for their tendency to precipitate alumina and the protoxide of mercury .
The mudesate of mercury dried at 300 ?
F. , is represented by ( 2 H9 O+ Cic2H5010 ) .
7 .
That chlorine , when made to act on either of the acids , or their salts of alumina in contact with water , gradually deprives them of all colour , while , at the same time , muriatic acid is formed .
Col ?
lected on the filter , boiled in water till the washings cease to pre ?
cipitate nitrate of silver , and dried , the white gelatinous , apparently altered mudesite or mudesate , is found on analysis to contain no atomic proportion of chlorine , but to have sensibly the constitution of the mudesic acid , or mudesates prepared by the direct action of nitric acid .
The author thinks it not unlikely that a chloro-mudesic acid exists , and may be formed during this process , represented probably by Cj2H4Cl 010 , but which he has not succeeded in obtaining in a separate state .
The mudesous and mudesic acids are distinguished from each other by giving , the former brown , and the latter yellow precipitates with the neutral metallic salts ?
by being the former unaltered , and the latter deliquescent in the air .
Both form deliquescent salts with ammonia , and appear to undergo alteration by the long-continued action of hydrosulphuric , or of concentrated sulphuric and hydrofluoric acids .

