Farther Observations on the Feet of Animals whose progressive Motion can be carried on against Gravity .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read June 27 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 322 .
] Since the author 's former observations on this subject were communicated to the Society , he has been enabled , by the assistance of E Mr. Bauer , to correct his former representations of the structure of the feet of the Lacerta Gecko and House Fly , and also to add an account of a similar mechanism in other insects delineated by the same skilful artist .
In the Blue-bottle Fly the suckers are two on each foot , immediately under the root of each claw .
Their form is funnel-shaped , with a narrow neck ; when not in use they are contracted , and approaching each other lie together in the space between the claws ; but when prepared for action they are expanded , and they separate laterally from each other .
In the Horse Fly ( the Tabanus of Fabricius , ) the suckers differ from the former only in number , as there are three on each foot .
In the yellow Saw Fly ( the Cimbex lutea of Fabricius , ) suckers are found at each of the four joints of the toes , one at every joint .
In the Dytiscus marginalis , or Great Water Beetle , although for the common purpose of locomotion there is no such apparatus observable at the parts of the feet used in walking , the male is nevertheless abundantly furnished with suckers in the three first joints of the first and second pair of feet ; and the purpose to which they are applied is that of embracing the female , who does not want , and is not provided with a similar mechanism .
In the male those joints that are furnished with suckers , are of uncommon breadth , having the whole under surface covered with small suckers , to each of which is a small tubular neck .
In addition to the foregoing observations on the suckers by which insects attach themselves to different objects , the author also takes occasion to notice another peculiarity in the feet of some insects , as security against the injury they might sustain in alighting suddenly with considerable velocity .
In some species of Grylli and Locustse the feet have on their under side globular cushions filled with a fibrous substance , and possessed of considerable elasticity .
In the Locusta varia there are three pair of cushions , of different sizes , at the three first joints of each leg .
But in fleas , which the author examined under an expectation of finding a similar structure , nothing of this sort is to be found ; from which it would appear that such a provision is not wanted for resisting the momentum of so light a body , notwithstanding the great distance to which it leaps .
A new Demonstration of the Binomial Theorem .
By Thomas Knight , Esq. Communicated by W. H. Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read July 4 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 331 .
]

