III .
" On Diffusion of Vapours : a means of distinguishing between apparent and real Vapour-densities of Chemical Compounds .
" By J. A. WANKLYN and J. ROBINSON , Esq. Communicated by Dr. FRANKLAND .
Received March 10 , 1863 .
The density of the vapour given off when a chemical compound is heated is not necessarily the vapour-density of that chemical com pound ; sometimes it is only the mean density of the products of decomposition .
Some of the best-known substances , such as hydrated sulphurous acid , ammoniacal salts , and pentachloride of phosphorus , suffer decomposition when they are vaporized , and thus have an apparent vapour-density , which is in reality nothing more than the mean density of the products of their decomposition .
We recognize such cases-in which the apparent is not the real vapour-density-by making a diffusion-analysis of the vapours .
This method of solving questions of the kind was proposed by one of us two years ago* .
In carrying it out practically , it was resolved from the first not to diffuse through a porous diaphragm , but to recur to Graham 's original method , namely , to let our vapours diffuse through a simple aperture or through a short tube .
Independently of the experimental difficulties attending the use of a porous diaphragm at high temperatures , there is a fatal objection to it , founded upon the inconclusiveness of the results obtained in such a way .
Our resolve to avoid porous substances was not by any means shaken by Pebal 's memoirt on the diffusion of chloride-of-ammonium vapour through asbestos ; for what is more likely than that a finely-divided silicate ( a salt of an acid of indefinite capacity of saturation ) should decompose ammoniacal salts at elevated temperatures ?
The apparatus used in our experiments is of the sinplest kind .
It is represented in the drawing , and consists of two glass flasks , the necks of which do not fit air-tight : the narrow tube proceeding from the upper one is fused to the flask .
The lower flask is for the reception of the vapour to be operated upon ; the upper flask is for the atmosphere into which the vapour is to be diffused .
The atmoPlayfair and Wanklyn on Vapour-densities , Transactions of Roy .
Soc. of Edinburgh , 1861 , vol. xxii .
part 3 .
p. 458 .
In this paper it was proposed to extend to vapours what had previously been applied to gases .
One of the earliest , perhaps the earliest example of a precise diffusion-analysis of a gas was given by Frankland in his research upon the isolation of ethyl ( see Quart .
Journ. Chem. Soc. vol. ii .
p. 285 , 1850 ) .
After describing his diffusion-apparatus and its use in the case of ethyl , Frankland proceeds , " This method might in almost every case be employed with advantage to determine whether or not any specimen of gas be simple or mixed .
" t Ann. de Ohim .
et de Phys. January 1863 .
sphere of dry air , or other suitable gas , is kept constantly renewed by the transmission of a slow stream of gas , which enters the upper fbntodI bb / r flask by the narrow tube above , and passes out by the space between the two necks , which , as we have said , do not fit air-tight .
When in use , the whole apparatus is kept at a temperature above the condensing-point of the vapour by means of an air-bath .
After a diffusion has gone on for a sufficient length of time the apparatus is allowed to cool , and the contents of the lower flask are analysed , by which means it is seen whether diffusion has effected any alteration in the composition of the vapour .
We have used a lower flask of about 500 cubic centimetres capacity , with a mouth 10 millimetres in diameter ; the capacity of the upper flask was 100 cubic centimetres .
The first substance taken for experiment was sulphuric acid , which is converted at high temperatures into vapour of sulphuric anhydride and vapour of water .
Inasmuch as vapour of water is lighter than vapour of sulphuric anhydride , the former should diffuse more rapidly than the latter .
Accordingly , the residue after diffusion should be richer in sulphuric anhydride than the acid before diffusion .
In one experiment we took an acid composed of 95 Mono-hydrated sulphuric acid .
5 Water .
100 1863 .
] 509 2o After diffusion for an hour at about 520 ?
C. , the residue was composed of 60 Mono-hydrated sulphuric acid .
40 Sulphuric anhydride .
100 In another experiment we took an acid containing 99 Mono-hydrate .
1 Water .
100 and after diffusion for a shorter time at 445 ?
C. found the residue to consist of 75 Mono-hydrateo 25 Anhydride .
100 In both cases the residues after diffusion fumed strongly on exposure to the air , and consisted partly of crystals and partly of liquid .
The substance next submitted to diffusion was pentachloride of phosphorus , which is decomposed by heat into terchloride and free chlorine .
The pentachloride which we used gave no reaction with iodide of potassium and starch , and therefore contained no free chlorine ; it gave no precipitate with corrosive sublimate , and therefore contained no terchloride of phosphorus .
An analysis of it gave Percentage of chlorine=846 7 The formula requires ... 85 13.In one experiment we diffused into carbonic acid gas* for threequarters of an hour at about 300 ?
C. , and afterwards dissolved the contents of the lower flask in water , and precipitated with corrosive sublimate , with the addition of a little hydrochloric acid .
'0175 gramme of calomel was obtained .
In another experiment ( also into carbonic acid ) the time of diffusion was two hours , temperature 300 ?
C. , quantity of calomel obtained '0285 gramme .
These two results leave no doubt as to the existence of terchloride of phosphorus in the residue after diffusion ; for the reduction of corrosive sublimate to calomel cannot be otherwise explained .
Moreover , the presence of free chlorine in the diffused gases was shown by the reaction with iodide of potassium and starch .
We are continuing this research , and hope to lay before the Society the results of an examination of the most prominent cases of so-called abnormal vapour-density .

