266 Proceedings and List of Papers read .
May 13 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended by the Council for election into the Society were read as follows:\#151 ; Bell , Robert , LL. D. Broadbent , Sir William Henry , Bart. Chree , Charles , M.A. Elwes , Henry John , F.L.S. Haldane , John Scott , M.D. Haswell , Professor William A. , D.Sc .
Howes , Professor George Bond , F.L.S. Kipping , F. Stanley , D.Sc .
Mathews , George Ballard , M.A. The following Papers were read Murray , George Robert Milne , F.L.S. Neville , Francis Henry , M.A. Nicholson , Professor H. Alleyne , M.D. Thomson , Professor John Millar , F.C.S. Trouton , Professor Frederick Thomas , M.A. Turner , Professor Herbert Hall , M.A. I. " An Attempt to cause Helium or Argon to pass through Red-hot Palladium , Platinum , or Iron .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , and Morris W. Travers .
II .
" On the Negative After-images following brief Retinal Excitation .
" By Shelford Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. , F.R.S. III .
" A Dynamical Theory of the Electric and Luminiferous Medium .
Part III .
Relations writh Material Media .
" By Joseph Larmor , F.R.S. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
IY .
" On a new Method of Determining the Yapour Pressures of Solutions .
" By E. B. H. Wade , B.A. , Scholar and Coutts-Trotter Student of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Y. " On the Passage of Heat between Metal Surfaces and Liquids in Contact with them .
" By T. E. Stanton , M.Sc .
Communicated by Professor Osborne Reynolds , F.R.S. VI .
" On the Magnetisation Limit of Iron .
" By Henry Wilde , F.R.S. Attempt to pacs Helium or Argon through Red-hot 207 \#171 ; An Attempt to cause Helium or Argon to pass through Red-hot .
Palladium , Platinum , or Iron .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , and Morris W. Travers .
Received April 9 , \#151 ; Read May 13 , 1897 .
To chronicle experiments which produce no result is a necessity , although not entirely an agreeable one .
Whatever the reason of the passage of hydrogen through red-hot iron , and through moderately heated palladium , and platinum\#151 ; whether it be due to the solubility of the gas in the metal , or to the formation of an easily decomposable compound\#151 ; neither argon nor helium is able to pass through any one of these metals , even at a fairly high temperature .
This would imply their inability to form any compound , however unstable , with these metals , or to dissolve in them at a red heat .
Such inactivity is in accordance with their general behaviour , and is still another proof of their inertness .
The experiment was made in the following manner:\#151 ; A tube of hard , infusible glass was connected at one end with the reservoir of the gas under experiment , helium or argon .
Into its other end was corked a tube of platinum , closed with a palladium cap , or , if iron was the metal under experiment , with a tubs of thin wrought iron , , also closed at the end ; the closed end of the interior tube was placed so that it could be raised to a bright red heat by bringing a blow-pipe flame to bear on the hard glass tube .
The open end of the metal tube was cemented to a glass tube , attached to a Topler 's pump , and provided with a PI ticker 's vacuum tube , so that the spectrum of any gas passing through the metal could be observed .
This afforded , at the same time , a most delicate test of the presence of the gas under experiment .
The metal tube was exhausted , until green phosphorescence appeared in the vacuum tube , and the gas , helium or argon , was admitted into the space between the glass and the metal tube , at atmospheric pressure .
The glass tube was then heated to the highest temperature attainable with a blow-pipe\#151 ; perhaps 900 ' or 950 ' C. In no case , whether the metal tube consisted of palladium , platinum , or iron , was there the smallest transpiration of gas , even after half an hour .
The phosphoi'escent vacuum remained in all experiments quite unimpaired .

