I. " On the Lunar Semidiurnal Variation of the Barometer .
" By JOHN ALLAN BROUN , Esq. , F.R.S. , Director of the Trevandrum Observatory .
Received May 30 , 1861 .
The results obtained hitherto for the lunar diurnal variation of atmospheric pressure have been received with some doubt ; the range of the variation has been found to be small , and the proximity to the sea of the stations for which the discussions have been made , has given some value to the idea that the variation is due simply to the tidal rise and fall of the sea , the base of the atmosphere .
It has even been suggested that the barometer should be incapable of showing an atmospheric tide , because the gravity of the mercury is diminished by the lunar attraction , as well as that of the atmosphere ; this suggestion , however , omits all consideration of the integrating means by which a tide is formed .
I have considered the question at two stations in the following manner .
Simultaneous observations of two standard barometers of the same construction , with boiled tubes 0'65 inch internal diameter , were made hourly during fifteen months ( April 1857 to June 1858 ) at two observatories ; one at Trevandrum 200 feet above the sealevel and three miles distant from the sea , the other on the summit of the Agustier peak of the South Indian Ghats , 6200 feet above the sea , about 22 miles from Trevandrum , 25 miles from the sea on the west , and 40 to 60 miles from the sea on the south and east .
The means of all the observations give the following results .
At Trevandrum.-The lunar diurnal variation of atmospheric pressure has two nearly equal maxima , occurring almost exactly at the moon 's passages of the upper and lower meridian , the minima occurring six hours before and after these epochs .
At Agustier ( 6200 feet).-The law is nearly the same as to epochs , the maximum for the inferior passage occurring , however , about one hour later , and each minimum occurring about one hour nearer the upper passage .
The chief difference in the two results is that between the relative values of the maxima and minima .
The oscillation occurring while the moon is below the horizon , or between the meridians of 6 " and of 18 " , has the same amount at Trevandrum ( height 200 feet ) and at Agustier ( height 6200 feet ) ; but the oscillation occurring while the moon is above the horizon , has twice the amount at the lower station which it has at the upper station .
This curious result , which it is difficult to explain by any theory depending simply on the attraction of gravitation , whether acting on the sea or the atmosphere , agrees remarkably with the conclusions for the solar diurnal oscillation obtained from the discussion of hourly observations made simultaneously during a month at five different stations , four of these being on the Agustier mountains , rising gradually from 1200 to 6200 feet , the fifth station being at Trevandrum .
From these observations ( an abstract of which will be found noticed in the Report of the British Association for 1859 , Trans. of Sect. , p. 46 ) , it appeared that the solar semidiurnal oscillation between 9 P.M. and 9 A.M. was nearly the same at all the stations ; while the day oscillation , 9 A.M. to 9 P.M. , diminished with the height , being at 6200 feet little more than half the amount of the oscillation at 200 feet .
These facts might be put into the following general form:-When the heavenly body ( sun or moon ) is below the horizon , the semidiurnal oscillation of the barometer within the tropics has the same value at all heights up to 6200 feet ; but when the body is above the horizon , the oscillation at 6200 feet has only half the amount of the oscillation at the level of the sea .

