XXIV .
An account of observations made with the eight feet astronomical circle , at the Observatory of Trinity College , Dublin , since the beginning of the year 1818 , for investigating the effects of parallax and aberration on the places of certain fixed stars ; also the comparison of these with former observations for determining the effects of lunar nutation .
By the Reverend JOHN BRINKLEY , D. D. F. R. S. and MR. R I. .
Andrews Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin .
Read June 21 , 1821 .
THE results of the observations which I now beg leave to lay before the Royal Society , were instituted with a view of discovering , if possible , the source of the differences that have existed between the results of former observations made here , and of others made at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich ; and they will , it is imagined , be found to be useful relative to some other important points in astronomy .
My former observations of certain stars pointed out a deviation of about one second from the mean place , after having made all the usual corrections .
Mr. POND'S observations pointed out no such deviations .
The deviations that I had found agreed with the effects of parallax .
The observations that I have since made , far more numerous than the former , concur in exhibiting the same results : in showing deviations in certain stars that can be explained by parallax .
Every other suggested solution of the difficulty appears quite inadequate thereto .
It is , I think , nearly demonstrated , that no change of figure in the instrument has occasioned it , and that the uncertainties of the changes of refraction can have had only a very small share , if any , in producing the effect observed .
It is not the results of a mere repetition of observations that I now offier to the Royal Society , but the results of numerous sets of such observations as seemed best adapted to examine the question in all its bearings .
Some of them seemed particularly adapted to disprove , if wrong , the explanation by parallax .
All attempts to arrive at results inconsistent with parallax have failed ; so that , as far as the new observations are concerned , my former conclusions have been strengthened instead of weakened .
I do not mean , however , to assert , that the subject is yet divested of the difficulties attendant on it from other sources .
Some of the results that I have found , although in themselves in no manner inconsistent with parallax , will , justly perhaps with many , add to the difficulty of admitting the explanation by parallax .
They will be unwilling to admit that many of the smaller stars are nearer to us than many of the brighter .
That in a certain part of the heavens of considerable extent , many of the stars exhibit a sensible parallax .
This however must be admitted , if my discordances result from parallax .
If it be admitted , then several of the difficulties that have occurred by comparing my observations and those of Mr. POND , will be done away .
But I shall defer a few remarks on this head , till I have given an account of my own observations , and of the results thereof .
The first set of results ( Table i ) are from observations of 3a8 thirteen stars .
These results contain the mean polar distance of each star reduced to January i , 1819 , the constant of aberration for each star , and the semi-parallax .
In deducing the quantity of parallax , the results must be affected by any uncertainty in the constant of aberration , since the times of the observations must necessarily be extended , so that the effects of aberration become sensible ; and in like manner , in investigating the constant of aberration from observations of a given star , the parallax , if any , will be involved .
Hence I adopted .
the following process in reducing the observations .
The observed zenith distances of a given star were reduced to Jan. 1 , 1819 , by the common equations , taking the constant of aberration --o",25 .
The mean of these were taken .
The correct mean zenith distance was supposed equal to this mean -e , the constant of aberration = 20,25x , and the semi-parallax =p .
The equations of condition resulting from the respective observations thus contained three unknown quantities .
These equations were reduced to three , by the method of making the sum of the squares of the errors a minimum .
The solutions of these three equations give the values of e , x and p , and thence the values of the mean polar distance , constant of aberration , and semi-parallax , as stated in Table i. In regard to the selection of these stars , some were selected with a reference to my former results as to parallax ; others , as being convenient for the investigation of the constant of aberration .
The parallax resulting for a Lyrae does not materially differ from my first determination .
That of a Aquilae is less than a 9 before .
Had o20I been used for the constant of aberration , the result would have been only less by half a second than before .
In fact , the quantity of discordance does not differ from what I had before observed , but part of it now appears to arise from the constant of aberration being greater ; a conclusion that will be deemed very important , should it be conw .
firmed by future observations or other instruments .
The parallax of Arcturus is somewhat less than before , and that of a Cygni considerably less .
y Draconis , as before , exhibits no parallax ; the small negative result of -I of a second may safely be referred to the unavoidable errors of observation .
The new results agree with the former , in showing that the Pole Star has no sensible parallax .
With respect to the constant of aberration , it is almost unnecessary to remark its important bearing on the theory of light .
Should a decided difference in the quantity of that constant , for two stars , be established , it would be decisive against the undulatory system ; and it would also show , that the corpuscular theory could not , without the addition of principles at present unknown , explain the phenomena of light .
I trust the results here obtained will be found to possess some interest , and may induce others to pursue the same object .
I dare not venture to draw any conclusion from them relative to these important points .
The two stars X Ursae Majoris and y Draconis appear to point out a difference .
These stars , by their proximity to the zenith and other circumstances , are well adapted for obtaining exact results , The observations of each star seem to be very good , as will appear by Tables 4 and 5 .
A continuation of observations will , I hope , enable me to speak with confidence as to the identity or diversity of these numbers .
The constant for a Aquilae will not be considered of so much weight as those of the higher stars , both on account of the more uncertain effects of refraction , and because only half the effect of aberration is visible in declination ; although the influence of these circumstances is somewhat lessened by the greater number of observations .
The investigation of the constant of aberration by direct observations of zenith distance has not , that I am aware of , been attempted since those of BRADLEY , by the zenith sector .
A century has nearly elapsed since his excellent observations were made .
The results of M. DELAMBRE'S investigations , relative to the velocity of light , as deduced from the eclipses of Jupiter 's satellites , appeared to confirm in so strong a manner the mean of BRADLEY'S results , that astronomers seem to have considered the point quite settled ; but if I mistake not , one cause for this was the paucity of instruments adequate to so delicate an enquiry .
In considering the results with a view to the question of parallax , whether those that appear to point out parallax have not an origin in some cause unconnected with parallax : the first remark that offers itself is , that all the results furnish a positive parallax , if we except those small quantities in three of the stars which are quite within the limits of the unavoidable errors of observation .
Might it not be expected that some of the stars would have furnished negative , as great as the positive quantities furnished by others ?
A considerable negative parallax would have been decisive .
Again , might it not have been expected that stars , in which the effect of parallax in declination is only a small part of the whole , would have shown a great parallax of declination as well as others , if the appearance of parallax is to be attributed to some other cause ?
Aldebaran , 3 Tauri , na Orionis , Castor , Procyon , Pollux , &amp;c. are so situate , that only a small part of the whole parallax could aftect the declination , and therefore if these stars had exhibited a change of place of a second or two , it could not arise from parallax .
The results of observations made with reference to this are given in Table 2 .
by which it will be seen that no sensible change of zenith distance takes place in these stars .
This appears a very important circumstance .
Also , these stars in summer passing the meridian in the day time , and in winter in the night , the absolute temperatures of the air differ much more than in the summer and winter passages of a Lyra and of a Aquilae ; therefore naturally greater irregularities might be expected as to the former stars , than as to the latter .
This also appears deserving of notice .
To examine this question in another way , I instituted a set of observations on stars in the same part of the heavens as those in which I had found the discordances that appeared to arise from parallax .
y Draconis I had already observed ; and the circumstance of its not exhibiting the same changes of place , as I had found in a Lyr , appeared to afford a confirmation of my explanation .
But this and a Aquarii are the only stars out of seventeen that appear not to be affected by similar changes .
Hence a new difficulty .
It certainly is not likely that those stars , some of them only of the fourth magnitude , should be nearer to us than some of the stars of the first and second magnitudes .
The stars ?
y and 3 Aquilae appear to have a parallax as great , or greater , than a Aquilae .
The results of these observations are given in Table 3 .
It is to be remarked , that these results cannot be considered nearly so exact as those of Table , beause the observations are not nearly so numerous , and because the coefficients of p are in general much smaller .
This latter circumstance could not be avoided in , some of them , on account of their being too faint to observe in strong day light .
For some of these stars also , the number of observations is so few , that a continuance of them may alter considerably the results ; but with respect to others , this is not the case .
The value of p has not been deduced for a Aquarii , becauseof the smallness of its coefficients ; but as this star shows a much less discordance than the others , it would afford , as well as Draconis , an argument favourable for the explanation by parallax , were not its zenith distance so great , that some uncertainty with respect to refraction may take plAce .
The results , contained in the three first tables , have been deduced from so many observations , that it is impossible that the principal conclusions , although relative to such minute quantities , can be materially affected by the variable errors of observation .
If error exist , it must be from some cause not to be controlled by mere observations , Two causes suggested themselves , which seemed to require particular consideration .
1 .
The instrument being in such different states as to temperature in summer and winter , may , by changing its figure or otherwise , occasion the discordances of the zenith distances .
If this were so , it must exist for all stars ; and Table 2 shows satisfactorily it does not exist ; for those observed when the difference of temperatures is greater than when o Lyrx , a Aquile , &amp;c. were observed .
The same is deduced from the observations of the Pole Star .
If the instrument give different results for the same angle , it must appear in the co-latitude determined by the Pole Star at different seasons .
The co-latitude found by cotemporaneous observations above and below the pole , is not affected by any uncertainty in the quantity of aberration , or in the parallax of the Pole Star ; it therefore affords a good criterion of the permanency of the scale of measurement of the instrument , if I may so express myself .
The quantities are as follow : No. of Obser ?
vations .
Z. D. Pole Star .
Co-latitude .
, Observations. .
W , , WM 'Autumn 72 3457 21,24 } 36 6 46,538 76 S.P. i8 i8 6i,84:Winter ( 7_ 85 7 : 1,5.It } 64 S.P. 38 16 7 1,89 Spring 764 3457386 3646 , 76S.P , 38 16 1,71 'Summer 72 3457 1,87 S.Ter 60 S.P. n eet pr ed frm te retie6 , S. There may be an effect produced from the relative temperatures of the external and internal air .
The refrac .
tions have been computed by the internal thermometer .
Now , at the summer observations of a Aquile and a Lyrae , &amp;c. which take place between sunset and midnight , the external thermometer is oftentimes several degrees lower than the internal ; the average is between 4 ?
and 5 ? .
At the winter observations , the external thermometer at the hours when these stars are observed , averages only about one or two degrees lower .
Hence , if the refractions were computed by the external thermometer , the results as to a Aquila and other stars of considerable zenith distance , would be less in favour of parallax .
But several circumstances induce me to conclude , that the true result is to be deduced from the internal thermometer .
In a multitude of instances , were the external thermometer used , great discordances would take place .
A great number of observations of circumpolar stars , made with a view to determine the constant of refraction , have given me nearly the same mean refraction as that determined by M. DELAMBRE from a great mass of observations of his own , and of M. PIAZZI , and which was also confirmed by the direct experiments of M. M. BIOT and ARAGO on the refractive force of air , whereas had I computed by the external thermometer , the constant of refraction would have been much less .
Also I have found the mean zenith distance , computed by the internal thermometer , when it stood several degrees higher than the external , fully equal to that found when the external and internal thermometer stood at the same height .
This has been particularly the case as to the Pole Star below the Pole .
The circumstances of the results I have obtained by this star seem to render it certain , that my instrument , and the mode of proceeding I have adopted , cannot lead to any material error .
It is evident , that the constant of aberration determined by zenith distances of the Pole Star , when observed above the pole , should be the same as that determined from observations of the same star when below the pole .
The same holds as to the parallax .
A comparison of results will show the degree of accuracy that may be expected to be obtained .
Now , by a reference to Table i , it appears that the constants of aberration only differ by a very small fraction of a second , and the results for the parallax agree in showing it to be insensible for this star .
The passages of the Pole Star being separated by twelve hours , the circumstances are in a manner reversed at the opposite seasons of the maxima of aberration and parallax .
The more this argument is considered , the greater weight it will , I think , be found to have .
The object of our enquiry is to ascertain , whether the instrument measures exactly the interval between the two places of a star at the opposite seasons .
We have two modes of doing it for the Pole Star under opposite circumstances , and we find the same result .
It must however be admitted , that it is difficult to ascertain , with exactness , the consequences of the differences of external and internal temperatures .
It is a matter of some importance , and I hope to be able to make farther observations for ascertaining , more exactly , its bearing on the present question .
In the mean time I beg to state distinctly , that , after reviewing all the circumstances of my observations , I do not consider my conclusions materially affected on this account .
Mr. Po-ND mentions , that in winter he endeavoured to 336 equalise the internal and external temperatures .
Here the difference of temperatures is greatest after sunset in summer and autumn , except in extreme cold in winter ; and the equalization of the temperatures cannot be easily affected without too great an exposure of the instrument to the external air .
Partial currents might derange it , and occasion more uncertainty than that arising from the difference of temperatures .
The room in which my instrument is placed , containing also the transit instrument , is of considerable dimensions , being thirty-seven feet long , twenty-three feet broad , and twenty-one feet high .
The instrument is several feet from the shutters , which may be supposed a favourable circumstance .
The apertures for observation are three feet wide .
Having thus given a detailed account of observations that have been principally instituted with a view of obtaining an explanation of the source of the difference of the results of my former observations and of those of Mr. POND , relative to parallax ; it is with concern I state , that it contains not a trace of any such explanation .
I have been unable to obtain any result that is opposed to my former conclusions , It would be extremely important to ascertain the certainty of the results of an instrument , which , by its construction and principle of reversion , seems much better adapted to the present wants of astronomy than a mural circle .
The advantage of referring each star to the apparent zenith point , and thus obtaining a knowledge of its motions without a reference to those of other stars , is easily appreciated .
The advantage is also very great , of being able to observe a few minutes before the object arrives at the meridian , and , reversing the instrument , of then observing again , The zenith distance is thus 337 obtained completely , without a reference to the correction for collimation ; and we are not obliged to depend for some days , perhaps , on the stability of the correction for collimation .
We also are more likely , in this way , to improve our theory of refraction , because thus the irregular refractions of different days will not be mixed together .
These considerations , independently of the interest of the question of parallax and aberration , lead me to dwell more on the discordance of the Greenwich observations , and of those made here , than otherwise I should be willing to do : and I am induced to offer a few brief remarks relative to the circumstances of the observations that have been adduced by Mr. POND , to prove the non-existence of a visible parallax .
i. The observations of the Greenwich mural circle are so implicated with each other , and the polar distances , even of the high stars , depend so much on the index error obtained by observations of those stars in which the uncertainties of refraction and of other data produce their effects , that it is not very extraordinary that the small quantities which I ascribe to parallax should not distinctly appear from the observations of the mural circle .
There is indeed one exception to this explanation , which , I freely confess , occasions inmy mind more difficulty than any other .
This is in regard to r Draconis and a Lyrie .
According to the observations of Mr. POND , there is no difference between the relative places of these stars in summer and winter ; and it is from a relative change of place I find in these two stars , that I adduce , what appears one of my strongest arguments for the parallax of a Lyrae .
In this instance , the two instruments are completely at variance , and one of them must give an erroneous result .
38 3 .
The fixed telescope , used by Mr. POND for the comparison of a Cygni and f Aurigae , shows no relative changes of place that can be explained by attributing a parallax to a Cygni .
This star formerly appeared to have a less parallax than others I had observed .
My new observations give a much smaller quantity for it ; but I am inclined to think the true quantity lies between my present and former results .
Now admitting it to be half a second , no contradiction to this can be drawn from the observations by the fixed telescope , when those observations are carefully examined with a reference to the visible effects of the change of temperature The fixed telescope used for ac Aquilae made the comparison by 55 1 Pegasi .
Now , the same maxima of parallax in declination of this star and of a Aquilae occur within a few days of each other , so that it is completely the difference of parallax that is ascertained by comparing this star and a Aquila3 ; and my results in Table 3 show , that in this part of the heavens we cannot conclude any thing as to the absolute parallax of one star by its relative parallax to that of another .
Thus I cannot but venture an opinion , that nothing certain has hitherto been determined by the use of the fixed telescopes .
8 .
The results of the investigation of the parallax of a Aquilae , by observations in right ascension , are still less satisfactory .
The stars Mr. POND has principally used for determining the error of the clock , are those in which I find the principal discordances , as will appear by a reference to the Greenwich observations ; and consequently , those results ought to afford no appearance of parallax .
If stars opposite in right ascension be used , the utmost exactness as to the stability and construction of the transit instrument and uniformity of the rate of the clock , is required .
The Greenwich transit may be considered fully adequate ; but it is evident the clock is not so perfect as it ought to be .
In order to avail ourselves of this method , by stars opposite in AJR , at first view so plausible , of examining the question of parallax , skies much less changeable than those we are accustomed to will be required .
As to this observatory , it rarely happens that a cloudless sky continues for twenty-four hours together .
The entire of the observations from which my conclusions have been deduced will , I hope , soon be published .
The particular results , therefore , of part only , are here added , that the nature of the observations , and the accuracy to be expected from them , may be more fully understood .
In Tables 4 and 5 will be seen the errors of each observation of q Ursae Majoris and of ey Draconis , assuming as exact the results of all the observations of each star as to the mean zenith distance , parallax , and constant of aberration .
These two stars have been chosen as examples , because in these the constants of aberration differ more than in other high stars .
These stars being so near the zenith were observed on the meridian .
Of the 99 observations of , Ursa Majoris .
2 In 2 observations the error exceeds 2 ' 18 In 2o observations the error exceeds i 79 In 79 observations the error is under x 99 ' Of the 15$ observations of y Draconis .
5 In 5 observations the error exceeds " 48 , In 53 observations the error exceeds i 99 In 99 observations the error is below 1 152 .
The errors of each observation of a Lyrae and of a Aquilae are also given in Tables 6 and 7 , adopting the results from all the observations of mean zenith distance , parallax , and constant of aberration , as exact .
These stars have been selected on account of the great parallax deduced .
Of the 157 observations of a Lyrae .
2 In 2 the error exceeds 3 " 6 In 8 the error exceeds 2 44 In 52 the error exceeds x 105 In 105 the error is below i 157 Of the 135 observations of a Aquilce .
2 , In 2 the error exceeds 3 " 8 .
In o1 the error exceeds 2 41 In 51 the error exceeds i 84 In 84 the error is under i 135 In the above , the results of the observations of one day are considered as a single observation ; but in computing the values of e , x , and p , each result was considered as having a weight proportional to the number of observations ; that is , 341 ' each bisection of the star and reading off was considered as a distinct observation .
The great improvement in the uniformity of the results is very apparent when two or four observations are made on the same day , by observing before and after the object has been on the meridian .
The greater errors occur according as the star is more remote from the zenith .
This is doubtless occasioned by the irregularity of refraction , which is so very apparent when the object is within lo0 or 15 ?
of the horizon .
It may be traced by my observations to withlin a few degrees of the zenith .
On this account , when the object is 40 ?
or o50 from the zenith , and great exactness is required , it will be necessary to increase the number of days of observation , rather than the number in the same day , that the irregularity may disappear from the mean .
I know not of any observations where the irregularity of refraction appears so distinctly as in mine .
To illustrate this more fully , I have , in Table 8 , added the observations of Aquarii .
This star I observed with a view of ascertaining whether it was subject to changes of place similar to what appeared in a Aquilae .
The mean results give a much less change of place , but the discordances which appear to belong to refraction are more fully apparent , By observing before the star came to the meridian , and then reversing the instrument , using only the bottom microscope , I was enabled to get several results on the same day .
In all the other stars three microscopes were used ; An inspection of Table 8 appars to show clearly the effects of this irregular refraction .
Thus it is evident , that the differences between the results of the observations of December 16 , 818S , and December 28 , 1820 , must have been occasioned by the irregularities of refraction , as the respective observations of each day , in both positions of the face of the circle , are very consistent with one another .
The same remark may be made as to the observations of August 17 , 1819 , and of September 6 , 1820 , &amp;c. &amp;c. An illustration of the method of observing , &amp;c. is given from y and 3 Aquilhe in Tables 9 and 1o .
The earlier observations of these stars were made on the meridian , and then the mean of the three microscopes , the refraction , and the mean zenith distance , January i , 1819 , as deduced from each observation , are given .
Afterwards , when the observations were made off the meridian , the sidereal time elapsed between the observation and the passage over the meridian , is also given .
The coefficients of x and p for each observation are also given .
In regard to the reductions of the observed zenith distance to the mean zenith distance : the precessions in N.P. D. corrected for proper motion , as given in the Nautical Almanac , were used .
These annual variations agree so nearly with the annual variations deduced by using Mr. BESSEL'S precessions , and the proper motions deduced by a comparison of Mr. BESSEL'S results from Dr. BRADLEY'S observations with the modern observations , that no inexactness can arise on this account .
The equation , in polar distance , used for lunar nutation was -88 " , 8 Sin ( M-)- " , 2 Sin ( A+ ) By a comparison of my observations of certain stars made 1809 , 1814 , and those made lately , I find this equation of lunar nutation -8 " , 06 Sin ( -a ) -l " , 19 Sin ( iR + ) If this should turn out , as I believe it will , more exact than the former , it will occasion no difference of results as to parallax and the constant of aberration .
The solar nutation I used was --o " , 48 Sin ( Ai--2 o ) , not regarding the smaller term .
With my lunar nutation , the solar nutation will be = o " , 52 Sil ( R o )0,02 Sin ( R +2 ) .
That which I used , therefore , is sufficiently exact .
The small terms depending on 2 long .
moon , have not been noticed on account both of their smallness and of the quickness of their period .
The principal term of the nutation in North Polar distance depending on 2 long .
of moon '--o " , 08 Sin ( R ) ) , * which going through its period in the short space of a fortnight , can occasion no error in the results that I have obtained .
To the stars above given , for which the constants of aberration have been investigated , may be added a Cassiopee , s and , Cephei .
The observations relative to parallax for these stars have not been sufficiently numerous to use the method of least squares .
_:TNo , ofOb .
N , P.P. D Jan. I 819 , .
Constantof '_ ~ ; 0 i II II a Cassiopeae 87 34 7 2,7 20,30-,14p a Cephei,0oo lo 10 4 , ,74 206-39P [ 3 Cephei 62 20 1357,5 20,20-,38p In my paper , Philosophical Transactions 8 19 , the constant for a Ursae Majoris was given .
In Table i , 1 Ursae Majoris has been introduced ; both could not be observed at the same time ; and having formerly intended to deduce the constant of aberration from the mean of a great number of stars , 13 Ursa Majoris was observed .
The importance of the enquiry relative to the velocity of light , has since induced me to multiply as much as possible observations of the same star , and therefore the observations of a Ursae Majoris have not been resumed .
Lunar Nutation .
A comparison of zenith distances of certain of the stars that I observed in the years 1809-1814 , and of the zenith distances of the same stars observed in the years 1818-1820 , has given the following results relative to lunar nutation .
It is almost unnecessary to remark , that those stars only were used in which the nutation at each period was nearly a maximum , with contrary signs .
Two circumstances are particularly required to obtain the most accurate results .
i. That a comparison of results should be deduced from observations made by the same instrument .
345 2 .
That observations should be continued through a whole period of the lunar nodes , in order to ascertain , with exactness , the annual variation of zenith distances for each star .
The latter condition can only be fulfilled hereafter for my instrument .
In the mean time , no material uncertainty can arise from the want thereof .
The accurate reductions of Dr. BRADLEY'S observations by Mr. BESSEL , have given us , with much exactness , the mean N. polar distances in 1755 of the stars I have used .
Three periods nearly of the lunar nodes intervened between 1755 and my former observations .
Hence , assuming the change from precession , as deduced by Mr. BESSEL , the proper motion of each star was obtained ; this proper motion was then applied to the precession of each star for the years 1815 and 1816 , which was also deduced by help of Mr. BESSEL'S precessions .
The annual variation of each star , thus obtained , for the middle of the interval between my two sets of observations , was used in connecting those sets to determine the exact effect of lunar nutation .
As the lunar nutation in N. P. D. used was , 8 " , 28 Sin ( S -a ) --1 ' ' , 22 Sin ( iA +a ) and therefore the greatest term of the nutation of obliquity of ecliptic = 9 " , 50 cos a ; I supposed the true coelficient of this latter =9",50 ( i +y ) and then found as follow : Number of Number of Greatest coeff. Observations Observations Equations deduced .
of Nutation of in 1808-1814 .
in 1818-1820 .
Ob .
Eclip .
Capella 30 96 54,2o + 8,49y=53,50-7,79Y 9,09 1 , Tauri 18 84 21,73 + 8,66y=21,65 7,63y 9,45 a Orionis 18 148 9,24 + 8,81 y= 7,98 -7,99y 8,75 Castor io 66 , 30,23 + 8,92y--30,42-C 8y 9,62 Procyon 16 136 8,41 + 8,91y= 7,30-4,88y 8,74 Pollux io 65 44,98 + 8,79y=44,29 -4,81 y 9,01 yDraconis 27 132 7,54-8,65 y= 7,90 + 5,80Y 9,26 a Lyrae 126 I55 42,69-9,14Y=42,94+ + 7,89y 9,36 a Aquilae 76 238 4,94 -8,74Y.= 5 , '1 + 7,42y 9,40 a Cygni 47 520 .
42,157,48Y=42,77 + 4,97y 9.03 378 1240 i 9,25 On account of the small number of observations of some of the stars at the first period , it appears better to take the mean , by giving each result a weight proportional to the number of observations of each star at the first period .
The mean result so obtained is 9 " , 25 .
With this result ( omitting the small terms depending on 2 long .
a ) The nutation in N.P.D. =8/ / , 06 sin ( Al3)i " , 19 sin ( ARE -+ ) The nutation in AI = ( -8,06 cos ( M 6 " , 19 cos ( ARE + ) ) cot .
N. P.D. Equation of equinoxes in At = 5 " , 86 sin a Equation of equinoxes in long .
= 17,29 sin 3 Equation of obliquity ecliptic = 95,25 cos g With the above nutation , the mass of the moon = v , that of the earth being unity ; and the force of the moon on the sea 2 , that of the sun being unity .
Had the former observations for each star been as numerous as those in the latter , it cannot I think be doubted , that the discordances of the results would have been less .
The discordance between the greatest and least result is less than one second .
Hence it might perhaps be inferred , that , MDDCCCXXI .
YV *t slpposing the constant.of aberration for each star the same , two results in Table i should not differ nearly so much as by i " ' , on account of the great number of observations used in deducing the results of that Table .
The discordances between my observations and those made at Greenwich may , by some , be considered as showing the great precision of modern observations , when it is understood that the whole extent of the absolute difference between the results of the observations of the Astronomer Royal , and of those made here , is only about one second .
But , independently of the interest of the question of parallax , it is highly important to ascertain the origin of this small difference .
It may instruct as to the limit of accuracy actually to be attained to , when apparently there should exist no limit .
It will also appear , should any of the results that I have found be inexact , that the delicacy of an instrument cannot be appreciated by giving correctly some of the smaller motions , real or apparent , that occur , because the same instrument may , as to others , entirely mislead .
Whatever may be the ultimate determinations , it is hoped , that the long and tedious exertions that have been used in obtaining these results , will not be found to have-been entirely without use .
TABLE I. FNio .
ofyDayN , d ObN .
P. D. Jan. P , I Const. saet mi.paralof Observa servatios , 1819 , co , lat Aberration .
lax or p. tio .
, 1818818211 .
5 80 ?
SW 6 , ' i I !
, ~~O'/ i1 " 11.Polaris 77 343 i 39 24,9 20,18 -0,03 Polaris S.P. o80 ' 337 g 39 25,16 20,1 2 +0,12 Urss .
Ma ; jris 7.5 7.5 32 38 59,61 20i 6+ o.oz.yJ , Urs Majoris o105 i. I ? ?
5 !
35 17 55 , Is 20,48 + 0,39 * ; -_ 10g9 109 33 3 .
19,54 ' 20,29 +0,33 3* ' 94 ' ; '94 4 34 , 7T34,65 2,23 +0,28 n Ursa Majoris 99 99 46 47,18 20,76 +,13 Arcturus 45 69 52 13,66 so &gt; 04 +o,61 ~ Urse Minoris 53 131 q 15 6 17,74 20,49 ?
-0,13 D Ophiuchi 97 228 ' 77 17 58,23 20,39 + 1,57 , ^yDraconiS 2 15Z 38 29 7,5 ' 19,86.-oo8 i Lyra *1 227 51 22 42,84 20,36 + I,21 a Aquilae

