Detection and Localisation of Phosphorus in Tissues .
467 \#171 ; On the Detection and Localisation of Phosphorus in Animal and Vegetable Tissues/ ' By A. B. Macallum , Associate-Professor of Physiology , University of Toronto , Communicated by Professor SHERRINGTON , F.R.S. Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1898 .
The distribution of phosphorus , like that of organic iron , in tissues , is a question of considerable importance to the cytologist and it is therefore necessary that the method of detection for this element , should be a satisfactory one .
There are difficulties , however , which make the micro-chemical detection of phosphorus less easy than in the case of iron , for there is no precipitate holding phosphorus which , under the microscope , gives as striking a demonstration of its presence as ferrous sulphide does of iron .
Ammonium phospho-molybdate is , in the test-tube , a markedly coloured precipitate , but when its constituent crystals are-examined under the microscope the colour observed counts for little .
When also , as in tissues , the precipitate may be in a much more finely divided form , the canary-yellow colour may be so faint that it is indistinguishable from the yellow produced in the tissue by the action of the nitric acid in the precipitating reagent , although Jolly* holds that the yellow colour of the phospho-molybdate compound in the tissue cannot be simulated by dilute nitric acid .
To get over these difficulties Lilienfeld and Montif used pyrogallol to reduce the molybdic portion of the compound to the condition of a lower oxide after they had , by washing the preparations in water , |removed the uncombined molybdate of ammonia from the tissues .
iC Pyrogallol gives , in the test-tube with phospho-molybdic acid , an intense colour varying from brown to black , whereby lower oxides of molybdenum arise .
' ' if In speaking in another place of the action f of pyrogallol on the phospho-molybdate , they state that it gives , in I the parts of the preparations rich in phosphorus and according to \ the quantity of the latter , " a yellow , brown , or black colour .
" Ra9iborskiS points out that the reaction of pyrogallol with ammonium phospho-molybdate in the test-tube is a green one , while [ / that produced with ammonium molybdate is a brown one.^ This I author further states that the green reaction is obtained in the I tissues of Euphorbia wherever crystals of ammonium phospho- * " Contribution \amp ; l'histoire biologique des phosphates.'1 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 125 , p.538 , 1897 . .
' ^ _ " f u Ueber die mikro-chemischen Localisation des Phosphors in den Geweben , * Zeit .
fur Physiol. Chemie , ' vol. 17 , p. 410 , 1893 .
X Loc .
cit.y p. 411 .
# S Vide a criticism of Lilienfeld and Monti 's observations , 1 Bot. Zeit .
, vol. 51 , p. 245 , 1893 .
468 Prof. A. B. Macallum .
Detection and Localisation molybdate occur , but a brown colour in other parts of an intensity which varies according to the length of time during which the preparation is washed , but if it is long and continuously treated with water no brown colour appears .
The brown , therefore , would be due to molybdate of ammonium , and is no indication of the presence of the phosphorus compound .
Heine* was unable to confirm Ra^iborski 's observations regarding the reaction produced by pyrogallol , but he found , using stannous chloride as a reducing agent , that almost invariably a blue reaction appeared , which may pass eventually into a dirty green colour .
In the test-tube also the reaction with the reducing agent is , according " to the amount of the molybdate present , as well as to the strength of acidity in the fluid , a green , brown , or blue one , whether phosphates are present or not .
Pollacci , t using zinc chloride as a reducing reagent , found the resulting colour range from dark blue to grey .
It is evident from the foregoing that there is error somewhere in the observations which have been made on the action of pyrogallol on ammonium phospho-molybdate , and it is obvious that , if Rafi-i borski is right in his contention , then the results of the investigations of Lilienfeld and Monti , relying as they did upon the " yellow , brown , * or black " reaction to indicate the presence of phosphorus , must be wrong .
As a number of observers , including Sherrington , J Grourlay , S and Held , || have used the same method and the same criteria on special tissue elements , it is therefore important to know the truth concerning the results so obtained .
My observations confirm Ra^iborski 's on the action of pyrogallol on ammonium phospho-molybdate .
When the former , in solution , aqueous or ethereal , is allowed to act on the thoroughly washed phospho-molybdate precipitate , the canary yellow of the latter is invariably turned to green , even in the presence of nitric acid , and this colour is maintained for a couple of hours , after which the precipi- i tate takes up slowly a darker shade , until at the end of twenty-four hours it has a black colour with a faint shade of green in thin layers .
The form of the crystals , which are black , is maintained .
When the * " Ueber die Molybdansaure als mikroskopischer Reagens , " * Zeit .
fur Physiol. Chemie , ' vol. 22 , p. 132 , 1896-97 .
t " Sulla distribuzionedelfosforo nei tessuti vegetali , " ' Malpighia , ' vol. 8,1894$ Abstract in 'Zeit..fur Wiss .
Mikrosk .
, ' vol. 11 , p. 539 .
t " Note on some Changes in the Blood of the general Circulation consequent upon certain Inflammations of acute and local character , " * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , 'vol .
55 , p. 161 , 1894 .
S " Proteids of the Thyroid and Spleen , " 'Journ .
of Physiol. , * vol. 16 , p. 23 , 1894 .
|| " Beitrage sir Structur der Nervenzellen und ihrer Fortsatze , " ' Arch , fur Anat .
und Phys. , ' Anat .
Abthg .
, 1895 , p. 396 .
of Phosphorus in A nimal and Vegetable Tissues .
469 reducing reagent is allowed to act on a nitric acid solution of ammo-aium molybdate , a brownish-black or black colour is produced , and an amorphous precipitate may be formed , which , under the microscope has a grey blue-black appearance , the fluid itself remaining brown , ohe colour being due to the oxidised pyrogallol .
At the end of twenty-four hours the amorphous elements are black , with or without a brown shade .
When , on the other hand , pyrogallol acts on ammonium molybdate in solution the resulting colour is deep brown , very much like that of a saturated solution of Bismarck brown , which is maintained at the end of twenty-four hours , but in no case is a precipitate formed .
It must be noted in this case that the colour formed results immediately on the addition of the pyrogallol .
i That what happens in the test-tube is what also obtains in tissues may be shown readily .
If one impregnates sections of tissue with ( ammonium molybdate for an hour or more , these , thoroughly washed and then treated with a pyrogallol solution , give a brown colour , iwhich is most marked in the parts of the cells which have an affinity ( for colouring matters .
It is obvious that in the absence of nitric acid [ there is no phospho-molybdate compound present , and yet the reducing ( reagent shows that though repeated washings were resorted to , the ( ammonium molybdate has not been removed .
On the other hand , | when the tissues are placed in a nitric acid solution of ammonium molybdate the results obtained are strikingly different .
One may I conveniently demonstrate these by placing fresh Spirogyra threads in j the solution for from five to ten hours at a temperature of 35\#151 ; 40 ' C. , I then washing them quickly in distilled water and putting them in a freshly prepared strong aqueous solution of pyrogallol .
In ten minutes the threads may be again washed , dehydrated , cleared in oil of cedar , and mounted in balsam .
Wherever in such preparations j one expects to find phosphorus , e.g. , in the nuclei , it is demonstrated by the green reaction .
If the pyrogallol is allowed to act longer J than ten minutes it begins to stain the cells and to mark the green more or less with a brown coloration , which distributes itself in them | as colouring matters generally do .
Perhaps the most striking way of demonstrating that the phospho-I molybdate is turned green and the molybdate brown by the action of I pyrogallol , is by impregnating portions of thin strips of writing paper I with a solution of sodic phosphate , drying them , and then submitting I them to the action of the nitric-molybdate solution , which gives them I a yellow colour .
On now washing them in distilled water , and sub-I mitting them to the pyrogallol solution , the areas which are impreg-I nated with the phospho-molybdate become green in a few seconds , h while the parts which contain the molybdate solution alone become I brown or yellowish-brown , and the contrast between the two reac-I tions thus appears marked .
470 Prof. A. B. Macalium .
Detection and Localisation The error at the base of the process adopted by Lilienfeld and Monti has been the assumption that it is possible to wash out o ) tissues all traces of the ammonium molybdate not combined with phosphoric acid .
I have found that when the stamens of nium americanum , treated for twenty-four hours with the nitricmolybdate solution , were washed with distilled water many times for five months , they gave , at the end of that time , marked evidence of the presence in them of ammonium molybdate .
The addition of stannous chloride brought out everywhere in such preparations the appearance of the blue molybdic oxide , whereas , when such preparations were treated with pyrogallol solution , the phospho-molybdate compound was found to be limited in its distribution .
From animal tissues also , I have found it impossible to remove by washing the molybdate reagent .
Indeed , one may succeed thus in removing the phospho-molybdate compound rather than the other .
Heine* also has specially insisted on the strong affinity that cell substances , those which contain phosphorus as well as those which do not , have for ammonium molybdate , forming with the latter , compounds insoluble in water or in dilute nitric acid solutions .
He prepared a quantity of histon , free from phosphorus compounds , which , after treatment with the nitric-molybdate reagent and after frequent washings , gave with stannous chloride abundant evidence of the presence of ammonium molybdate .
One is consequently justified in concluding that the results of Lilienfeld and Monti 's observations , based as they are on the " yellow , brown , or black " reaction of the pyrogallol , are incorrect , !
and that while the reaction may appear in phosphorus-holding elements , it is simply a coincidence , and not an indication of the presence of phosphorus .
The property of pyrogallol to form , in the reduction of the molybdate and the phospho-molybdate compounds , a coloured substance which can be taken by cellular elements just in the same way !
and to about the same extent that they take up other colouring : matters in solution , constitutes an objection to the use of this i reducing reagent .
It is not possible to be certain in all cases in regard J to the length of time during which it is to be allowed to act , and , j consequently , a very faint green may be obscured by a light brown i reaction , resulting either from the oxidised pyrogallol or from the reduced molybdate in the presence of traces of nitric acid .
In consequence of this objection , I endeavoured to find a reducing f reagent which would leave the molybdate compound , in the presence | of nitric acid , unaffected , while it would markedly react with the | phospho-molybdate , not only in the test-tube , but in tissues .
Zinc * " Ueber die Molybdansaure 'als mikroskopisches Reagens , " ' Zeifc .
fur Physiol. ?
Ohetnie , ' toI .
22 , p. 132 , 1896-97 .
of Phosphorus in Animal and Vegetable Tissues .
471 chloride does this , but in an unsatisfactory way .
It is very slow in its action , and feeble in its reducing power .
It gives a green reaction with the phospho-molybdate compound , but none with the molybdate in the presence of nitric acid .
Stannous chloride reduces both the compounds at once , forming the blue oxide of molybdenum , and therefore it is , for the point in view , valueless .
Ferrous sulphate is also very slow in its action , and it has the disadvantage of giving a faint green colour to the tissue , independent of that which may be ( produced in the phospho-molybdate compound .
The reagent which I found the most valuable from every point of view is phenylhydrazin hydrochloride .
This , in an aqueous solution of 1\#151 ; 4 per cent , strength , is certain in its action if it is freshly [ prepared or not more more than two or three days old .
It , in the absence of alcohol or of a caustic alkali , makes a very marked distinction between the molybdate and the phospho-molybdate compounds .
It gives with the former , in powder , the brown oxide at once , in solution , a brownish precipitate which may or may not appear immediately , depending on the strength of the solution , but in a solution of the molybdate containing nitric acid , e.g. , that used as the reagent for phosphoric acid , it has no apparent effect on the molybdenum compound , although , in a few minutes , a soluble , reddish , aromatic compound may be formed in the solution .
On the \#166 ; other hand , with phospho-molybdates , either in the presence or in l the absence of ammonium molybdate , or nitric acid , or of both , it I gives at once the dark-green oxide of molybdenum .
Examined under the microscope , the crystals of the phospho-molybdate alone | are found to have the green colour , which , after an hour 's action of the phenylhydrazin , is so dark as to suggest , at first sight , black .
I That this reaction depends upon the presence of phosphoric acid , s may be clearly shown by adding to a fiiixture of the reducing I reagent and of the nitric molybdate solution a quantity of phos-j* phoric acid solution .
Although the mixture will stand for several l minutes without any change other than the formation of a slightly j reddish solution , yet on the addition of the acid solution the dark-I green reaction appears immediately and markedly , sometimes accom- !
panied by the formation of a blue-violet soluble compound .
Ho I other acid exercises a like effect .
Solutions of potassium hydrate I and sodic hydrate and alcohol , in a certain proportion , will call forth I in the mixture a greenish-blue or blue colour , which , in the case of I the alcohol preparation , fades out in twenty-four hours .
In this 1 latter , the colour would appear to be due to the formation of an I aromatic compound , and not directly to an alteration in the molyb-I date .
Nitric acid alone will produce , in a solution of phenylhydr-I azin , a reddish colour , and rarely also , when ammonium molybdate is I present , a blue-violet colour , which appears to be due to a phenylic 472 Prof. A. B. Macallum .
Detection and Localisation compound .
What the conditions are , under which this colour compound is produced , have not been determined , but this reactio cannot interfere with or confuse the results of the action of th reducing reagent on the phospho-molybdate compound .
On the molybdate and pbospho-molybdate compounds distribute in animal and vegetable tissues , the phenylhydrazin hydrochlorid acts as it does on these in the test-tube .
It is not necessary to fre the tissue preparations from ammonium molybdate .
They may hi placed for a minute or two in a dilute solution of nitric acid , af te which they are transferred to the reducing solution , which , in les than two minutes , brings out the green colour where the phospho molybdate compound occurs , but a faint yellow reaction when ammonium molybdate alone is present .
Instead of dilute nitric acid one may use distilled water , but it is not necessary to do even this for if the preparations are transferred directly to the reducing fluic -with but what may adhere to them of the nitric-molybdate solution the result is the same .
When the reducing fluid bas been allowed to act for the proper length of time the preparations are washed in distilled water , then dehydrated , cleared in oil of cedar , and mounted in balsam .
Preparations made in this way four months ago are now quite as satis-i factory as they were at first .
Reference to the other reagents and methods which have been used is also necessary .
The nitric-molybdate reagent was made by ?
\#166 ; dissolving one part of pure molybdic acid ( Mo03 ) in four parts of : strong ammonia , and adding thereto , slowly , fifteen parts of nitrici acid , sp. gr. 1*2 .
The proportions indicate weights .
The i*esulting solution had a faint yellow tinge , and , after decantation from the ?
very slight sediment , remained free from a precipitate as long asi any of it was unused .
Fresh tissue material was used as well as that which had been hardened in alcohol .
The alcohol material is the best , for the nitricj acid , before it converts the phosphorus compounds in fresh tissue elements into orthophosphoric acid , must dissolve a portion at least of the phosphorus-holding proteids , and thus the phosphorus when ?
converted may not be distributed as intra vitam .
I have , however , p used fresh material , wherever possible , to compare with that hard- i ened in alcohol .
The latter offers advantages in the fixed form of j " the elements , and in the preparation of thin sections which readily permit the uniform action of the reagent as well as the extraction of lecithin and inorganic phosphates .
The time during which the reagent was allowed to act on the pre- ' parations varied from ten minutes to twenty-four , and even , in some * cases , forty-eight hours .
It was found that a temperature of 35 ' 0 .
favoured considerably the formation of the phospho-molybdate .
The S of Phosphorus in Animal and Vegetable Tissues .
473 formation is a progressive one , the extent of the reaction appearing to have some relation to the time employed .
The inorganic phosphates are first affected , then lecithin , the organic phosphorus being much more slowly converted into the orthophosphate .
According to Liebermann , * the phosphorus found in such com-^pounds as nuclein and nucleic acid is in the form of monometa-iphosphate , but Kosself has thrown doubt on the results on which this view is based , and he claims that the facts point rather to the occurrence of other anhydrous forms of phosphoric acid in these compounds .
Jolly + has inferred from his experiments that in .organic compounds of phosphorus the latter does not occur in the unoxidised metalloid ( " metalloidique non oxyde integre " ) form .
MilroyS has found that in the digestion of nuclein compounds with trypsin , some of the phosphorus is set free as orthophosphoric acid , but the greater part ( 89 08\#151 ; 9T63 per cent : ) , occurring in an organic form , does not possess the characters of metaphosphoric acid , for its solutions may be boiled a long time without producing an increase in the amount of the ortho compound present .
As the nitric-molybdic reagent reacts only with the ortho form of phosphoric acid , it is obvious that the organic phosphorus in the tissues must be put in the condition of orthophoshoric acid .
Lilienfeld ; and Monti treated the fresh tissues with baryta water or sodic carbonate , in order to set the phosphorus free as phosphate , which was then demonstrated as the phospho-molybdate ; but , as Liebermann|| I points out in the case of yeast nuclein , the baryta compound is only after long boiling , or , after heating with acids , converted into the orthophosphate .
The action of the baryta must , in part at least , be S to change the structure of the elements , and it is not certain , therefore , that in all cases the ortho compound formed should be in the structures where the phosphorus originally existed .
This , and the fact that the sodium compound first formed by sodic carbonate , being I soluble , may diffuse from its original situation , render this method I of doubtful value in localising phosphorus in tissue elements .
These I observers , however , claim that the nitric acid in the molybdic I reagent has the property of gradually converting the phosphorus I compounds into the orthophosphate , and they allowed fresh prepara- * " Nachweis der Metaphospborsaure im Nuclein der Hefe , " 'Arcb .
fur die I -gesam .
Physiol. , ' vol. 47 , p. 155 , 1890 .
f " Ueber die Nucleinaaure , " 'Yerb .
Pbysiol .
G-esell .
zu Berlin , ' 'Arch , fur I Anat .
und Physiol. , ' Phvs .
Abth .
, 1893 , p. 157 .
J " Recherches sir le phospbore organique , " * Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 126 , p. 531 , S " Ueber die Ei weiss-Yerbindungen der Nucle'insaure und Thyminsaure und I ibre Beziehung zu den Nucleinen und Paranucleinen , " ' Zeit .
fur Pbysiol .
Cheinie , ' I vol. 22 , p. 307 " 1896-97 .
|| hOC .
Clt , 474 Prof. A. B. Macallum .
Detection and Localisation tions to remain a long time in this fluid for this purpose .
I have , as already stated , found that the long continued action of the reagent has this result , and that the conversion is more marked if the reagent is allowed to act at a slightly increased temperature .
One cannot be absolutely certain that the anhydrous forms of phosphoric acid when liberated , and before being converted into orthophosphoric acid , do not diffuse through the tissue elements , but in a number of experiments made to decide this point , I ascertained that if such diffusion did occur , it was in such minute amounts as to be unobservable .
A risk of diffusion is incurred when a tissue , very rich in orthophosphates , is acted on by the reagent .
A part of the phosphoric acid in this case , except in very thin sections , diffuses and forms a slight deposit of phospho-molybdate crystals on the preparation .
Preparations of renal tubules and the cat 's placenta illustrate this well .
Owing to the abundance and general distribution of lecithin in animal and vegetable tissues , it is necessary to extract this compound from them in order to ascertain the distribution of the other phosphorus compounds .
Bitto* has shown that the extraction can be regarded as complete only when the material , first treated with ether , has been acted on by boiling ethyl alcohol thirty times , each period of extraction lasting about ten minutes .
Adopting this process , I subjected samples from all the material used to extraction in a Soxhlet apparatus for five hours , the condensed but still hot alcohol being siphoned off every 6\#151 ; 10 minutes .
This treatment is specially necessary in the case of nerve tissues in which it makes a marked difference in the phospho-molybdate reaction .
A much more difficult problem is that of the removal of the inorganic phosphates from tissues .
Jolly j " used acetic acid of 20 per cent , strength for this purpose , claiming that this fluid removes all the phosphates except that of iron .
It does indeed remove a large part of them , but not those which may be in the nuclear elements .
In order , therefore , not to confuse the inorganic phosphorus with that of organic combinations , I have always endeavoured to determine in any given material what extent of molybdo-phosphate reaction may be obtained in the first ten minutes after the nitric- \gt ; molybdate reagent is added .
This reaction indicates whether the tissues are rich or poor in inorganic phosphates , and it may be compared with what may be obtained after a longer stay iu the reagent , any enhancement in the reaction thus demonstrating the phosphorus of organic compounds .
* " Ueber die Bestimmung des Lecithingelialtes der Pflanzenbestandtheile , '* * Zeit .
fur Physiol. Chemie , ' vol. 19 , p. 488 , 1894 .
t ' Comptes Kendus , ' vol. 125 , p. 538 , 1897 .
of Phosphorus in Animal and Vegetable Tissues .
475 Results of the Method .
I. General.\#151 ; The chromatin of all nuclei gives , after eighteen hours ' treatment with the nitric-molybdate reagent a strong phospho-molybdate reaction .
This is so marked that the nuclei appear under ordinary microscopic magnification as if they were stained with a dark-green dye for the express purpose of showing the chromatin structures .
Even the finer fibrils constituting the so-called reticulum are prominently brought out .
This is well illustrated in the nuclei of the epithelial cells of the skin , alimentary r tract , renal tubules , and olfactory region , and of the muscle fibres , liver cells , testicular and ovarian cells , nerve cells ( spinal cord ) , pancreatic cells , connective tissue cells , and leucocytes of Meno-branchus ( Necturus ) lateralis and In vegetable cells , as shown in Erythronium americanurn , the same result ft was found .
In brief , wherever true chromatin was found , there the reaction for phosphorus was obtained .
In the chromatin of the mitotic loops in dividing animal and vegetable cells , no reaction more marked than in the chromatin of the resting nuclei was in any i case obtained .
This fact definitely contradicts the view of Lilien-feld* that the chromosomes in mitosis are composed of nucleic acid only , a view which Heine , t as a result of experiments in staining \#166 ; f with mixtures of dyes , also rejected .
The phosphorus in nucleic ,1 acid amounts to 9\#151 ; 10 per cent. , but in nuclein it is 3\#151 ; 4 per cent. j| If Lilienfeld 's view is correct , then the reaction for phosphorus in the chromosomes should be at least twice as marked as in resting .\gt ; : chromatin elements , taking volume for volume .
The results i obtained by Lilienfeld in his staining experiments must be explained I on some other hypothesis than that which he adopted .
The eosinophilous nucleoli in animal and vegetable nuclei give a ( strong reaction for phosphorus , but less marked than in the case of the chromatin .
On the other hand , the nucleolar elements in the nucleus of the ovary of Erythronium which , as I have pointed out , J ; !
are rich in " masked " iron , give a deep reaction for phosphorus .
A similar result was obtained in the nucleoli of the nuclei of the embryo-sac of the same form , in the peripheral nucleoli of the maturing ovarian ova of Menobranchus , in the nucleoli of Corallorhiza multi-flora and of Spirogyra , all rich also in " masked " iron .
The * " Ueber die Wahlverwandtschaft der Zellelmente zu gewissen Farbstoffen , " I ' Yerb .
Berl .
Physiol. Gesell .
, ' ' Arcb .
fur Anat .
und Phys. , ' Phys. Abth .
1893 , p. 391 .
f " Die Mikrochemie der Mitose , zugleicli eine Kritik mikroehemischer Me-thoden , " ' Zeit .
fur Physiol. Chemie , ' vol. 21 , p. 494 , 1895-96 .
j \lt ; \lt ; On the Distribution of Assimilated Compounds of Iron , other than Hsemo- ' globin and Htematins , in Animal and Vegetable Cells , " ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , ' ' vol. 38 , p. 175 , 1895 .
VOL. LX1II .
^ N 476 Prof. A. B. Macallum .
Detection and Localisation nucleoli of the nerve cells in the spinal cord of Menobranchus and of the ox and dog , give a deep reaction , but it is not uniform throughout the nucleolus , portions of a granular form , giving a deeper colour than the surrounding material .
In the cytoplasm of various cells the organic phosphorus present is usually small in amount , and , unless inorganic phosphates are present , the lecithin being extracted , the reaction is a very faint one .
In the cells of the nucellus and in the bast cells of a deeper reaction is obtainable in the cytoplasm ; and this appears to be due to the presence of chromatin\#151 ; at least in the case of the nucellar cells .
The cytoplasm of the latter is also , as I have pointed out elsewhere , iron-holding .
Other exceptions are found in the pancreatic cells , liver cells , nerve cells , striated muscle fibres , in maturing and mature ovarian ova of Amphibia , and in the spermato-zoids of Ascaris .
These exceptions are referred to at greater length below .
In dividing cells the achromatic spindle gives no reaction for phosphorus .
This result is quite the opposite of that which Heine obtained when he used stannous chloride as a reducing reagent after the employment of the nitric-molybdate reagent .
Heine advanced the view that his result showed that the molybdic reagent could not be depended on to indicate the presence of phosphorus in tissues .
It is rather to be interpreted as indicating that stannous chloride does not distinguish between the molybdate and the phospho-molybdate compounds .
In no case has the centrosome or centrosphere in animal and vegetable cells given a reaction for phosphorus .
II .
Special.\#151 ; The zymogen granules in the pancreas of Diemyctylus , from which the lecithin was thoroughly extracted , gave a deep reaction for phosphorus after eighteen hours ' treatment with the nitric-molybdic reagent .
The phosphorus apparently is less firmly bound than is the case in the nuclear chromatin in the same cells , for the reaction in the latter is slower in appearing .
A very distinct but less deep reaction was obtained also in the protoplasm in which the granules lie , more especially in the part adjacent to the lumen , and a marked reaction also was produced in the antecedent substance of the zymogen , found usually in the outer or protoplasmic zone of the cells .
This substance , which I have named prozymogen , # contains iron in a " masked " form , and it stains in every way like chromatin .
^ The presence of phosphorus , as well as of * ** masked " iron , seems to ; indicate very clearly that it is a nucleo-proteid .
The demonstration that zymogen and prozymogen are phosphorus- * Loc .
cit.f p. 224 ; also " Contributions to the Morphology and Physiology of the Cell , " ' Trans. Can .
Inst. , ' vol. 1 , p. 247 , 1891 .
of Phosphorus in Animal and Vegetable Tissues .
holding confirms the view which I advanced seven years ago , * that both are primarily derived from the nuclear chromatin .
The deeper reaction for phosphorus which is obtained in that part of the pancreatic cell immediately adjacent to the lumen , may be due to ferments dissolved in the cytoplasm at this point or to a phosphorus-holding substance derived from the zymogen at the same time the ferments are formed .
A diffuse reaction for phosphorus , slow in appearing , was obtained in the cytoplasm of liver cells of dog and man .
These cells also frequently contain abundance of inorganic phosphates whose presence may render the demonstration of the organic compound difficult .
I have been unable to determine whether organic phosphorus com-spounds are present in the cytoplasm of the renal cells , for in the dog and human subject these cells are rich in inorganic phosphates which are difficult to extract , and , consequently , obscure the reaction for the other compounds if these occur here .
Mr. F. H. Scott , who is at present working on the micro-chemistry of nerve cells , has found that Nissl 's granules also give a distinct reaction for phosphorus .
He has also found that the substance forming the granules does not digest in artificial gastric juice .
Mackenzief had previously found that these granules contain \#171 ; masked " iron .
They stain like chromatin .
These facts lead one to conclude that the substance of the granules is a nucleo-proteid .
A feeble reaction for phosphorus has been obtained in the axis cylinders of medullated nerves from which the lecithin was extracted .
In the muscle fibres from the chelae of the crayfish a deep phosphorus reaction was obtained in the dim bands and in the beadlets which constitute Dobie 's line , while no reaction occurred in the lateral discs of Engelmann .
The phosplWrus-holding substance is i coterminous with the anisotropous element .
The phosphorus demon-e strated is not due to presence of lecithin , for this was wholly ex-| tracted from the preparation before it was treated with the nitric-molybdic reagent , and it was not due to inorganic phosphates , for the reaction did not come out , except very feebly , during the first twenty | minutes . .
In the striated muscle fibres of Amphibian larvae the iron-holdmg .
substance appears to be also limited in its distribution , as it was I found only in the dim bands , J Dobie 's line giving no evidence of its | , presence , perhaps because this structure in Amphibia is too minute i to permit a proper determination of this point .
In my experiments on crayfish muscle both the dim band and Dobie 's line appear to give * ' Trans. Can .
Inst. , ' vol. 1 , p. 247 , 1891 .
_ + " Investigation in the Micro-chemistry of Nerve Cells , " ' Brit. Assoc. Report , I 1897 , p. 822 .
J ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , ' vol. 38 , p. 220 .
2 n 2 478 Prof. A. B. Macallum .
Detection and Localisation a reaction for " masked " iron , and thus in muscle this element ai phosphorus would seem to have the same distribution .
The matrix of cartilage in Menobranchus and the frog gives marked reaction for phosphorus , which seems in large part to be di to inorganic phosphates , for it appears soon after the addition of tl nitric-molybdate reagent .
The reaction in some specimens appeal in areas or zones about cartilage cells or groups of them , the am being separated by narrow zones in which no reaction was observed In the maturing and mature ovarian ova of Amphibia the cyit ?
plasm is very rich in organic phosphorus , though not so much sofa the nucleus .
As the yolk spherules form , the amount of phosphorut holding substance seems to lessen , possibly through its being take-up by the spherules which , even when freed from traces of lecithii give a marked phospho-molybdate reaction in about six hours .
It i to be noted that these spherules are also iron-holding .
In the spermatozoids of Ascaris the organic phosphorus is , 01 the whole , distributed as I have found the " masked " iron to be il these structures.* The " nucleus " gave a deep phospho-molybdate reaction , and a less marked reaction was obtained in the surroundi ing cytoplasm .
A diffuse but distinct reaction for phosphorus was obtained ii human chorionic villi of the seventeenth ( ?
) day , and in the plal cental villi of the sixth week and third and sixth months .
part of this reaction is due to inorganic phosphates , for it il obtained to a certain extent in about ten minutes after the nitrici molybdic reagent is added .
The cat 's placenta is very rich ixf inorganic phosphates distributed throughout the tissue , but more abundant in the deeper portions of the organ .
The colloid bodies of the thyroid are phosphorus-holding accord-| ing to Grourlay , !
who relied in his experiments on Lilienfeld and ; Monti 's interpretation of the action of pyrogallol on the phospho- ) molybdate compound .
Through the kindness of Dr. J. H. Elliott , - ; I obtained an abundance of free colloid bodies of the ox , fixed in alcohol , which , after extracting the lecithin , I fused in a platinum a cup with crystals of pure potassic nitrate .
The mass , treated with !
; a quantity of the nitric-molybdate solution , became yellowish , \#163 ; owing to the formation of the phospho-molybdate , the character-3 istic crystals of which could be found under the microscope .
Theti reaction was not due to inorganic phosphates , for when thin sec- z tions of the ox 's thyroid , freed from lecithin , were placed in theji reagent , the phospho-molybdate compound formed very slowly , and ) the maximum reaction appeared only after eight hours .
The pre- 1 sense of organic phosphorus in these elements does not , as Gourlay i * ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , ' vol. 38 , p. 229 .
t Op. cit. of Phosphorus in Animal and Vegetable Tissues .
479 believes , necessarily indicate the existence of a nncleo-proteid in them , for Dr. Elliott has found that they digest in artificial gastric juice , leaving no residue , which would not be the case were a nucleo-compound present .
The outer portions of the rods and cones in Menobranchus and |Diemyctylus are rich in organic compounds of phosphorus .
It is more abundant in the rods than in the cones , and it is not due to lecithin , for the retinae used were freed from the latter , nor is it owing to the presence of inorganic compounds of phosphorus , for the reaction is not obtainable during the first twenty minutes after gplaeing the organs in the nitric-molybdate solution , while it is a progressive one up to the sixth hour .
The chromatin of the nuclei of all the layers of the organ also gives the reaction .
The chromatophore in Spirogyra gives a weak phospho-molybdate reaction , and it appears to be due to the presence of an organic com-Ipound of phosphorus .
A more marked reaction , however , is usually found in the pyrenoids in the same genus , and also in those of j nium , Gladophora , and Conferva .
In fresh specimens of Spirogyra , ftaken during daylight and put into the nitric-molybdate reagent , the .
pyrenoids appeared to give a stronger reaction than those of specimens taken at ten o'clock at night .
The reaction develops I slowly .
A diffuse reaction for phosphorus , slow in developing , was obtained ' in the cytoplasm of Saccharomyces Ludwigii .
In apparently normal I cells this may be the only reaction which will be obtained , but in | cells cultivated in the sap of the iron-wood tree a spherical body ?
occurs , at first sight like a nucleus , but frequently homogeneous , which I after about ten hours ' treatment with the nitric-molybdate reagent I gives a reaction for phosphorus which may be very marked .
This | body is in no sense a nucleus , * nor does the phospho-molybdate reac-I tion reveal any structure that corresponds to the latter .
The fact !
that the " masked " iron in these cells lias a distribution parallel to I that of the organic phosphorus , also points distinctly to the absence I of a nucleus .
In Cyanophyceee the " central body " always gives evidence of the | presence of organic phosphorus -compounds .
A stronger reaction I for phosphorus was obtained in the iron-holding , chromatin-like I granules which are to be found in the central body , or on its pen-| phery , in Tolypothrix and Oscillaria .
The " cyanophycin " granules , I on the other hand , have not given any evidence of the presence^ of I organic phosphorus except in some few filaments^ pf a preparation I of Oscillaria tenuis , in which case a marked reaction was developed I in about an hour .
* I have discussed the nature of this body , 'Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , ' vol. I 38 , p. 246 .

