]\gt ; [ 279 ] VII .
On the Dinrnal Variations o.f ' the Earth 's Magnetism produced by the Aloon and Sum .
S. CHAPMAN , B.A. , D.Sc .
, Chief the Royal ) , Greenwich .
( by the Astronomer Royal .
) Received April ) , \mdash ; Read June 19 , 1913 .
CONTENTS .
Page Introduction . . . . . . . . . .
279 PART I.\mdash ; General Discussion . . . . . .
281 PART II.\mdash ; Mathematical Theory 288 PART III.\mdash ; The Observational Material 307 Introduction .
S1 .
WHILE the observational study of terrestrial magnetism is receiving ever and more attention , and being rewarded with success by the acquisition of new and important data , the theoretical side of the subject shows a much less rapid advance .
The search for a physical theory of the earth 's magnetism and its changes is fascinating but elusive .
Perhaps in one case only\mdash ; that of SCHUSTER'S important theory*of the diurnal variations of the magnetic state of the earth\mdash ; has there been put forward a clearly outlined theory w.hich promises to explain the real mechanism of any magnetic phenomenon .
On this theory , the solar diurnal variations are attributed to the action of electromotive forces produced in masses of conducting air in the upper atmosphere , by their motion across the permanent magnetic field of the earth .
The magnetic field of the resulting electric currents is identified with that which produces the observed diurnal changes .
SCHUSTER has shown that if the motion of the air is taken to be substantially that which is indicated by the barometric variations , the atmosphere being supposed to oscillate as a whole , the conductivity required by the theory is not unreasonable , considering the ionization of the tenuous upper atmosphere by ultra'Phil .
Trans , vol. 208 , p. 163 .
Published separately , August 22 , 1913 .
DR. S. CHAPMAN ON THE DIURNAL yARIATIONS OF THE violet radiation from the sun .
* The fundamental assumptions are in accordance with SCHUSTER'S demonstrationt that the magnetic variations are principally due to a system of currents above the earth 's surface .
In order to explain the relative magnitudes of the diurnal and semi-diurnal terms in the magnetic potential , it is necessary to suppose that the conductivity of the atmosphere varies with the solar hour angle , which is certainly priori probable : the great excess of the summer variation over the winter variation is unexplained , however , as the usual rapid rate of recombination of ions makes it difficult to believe that the solar ionization is slowly cumulative .
There is at present much uncertainty as to the numerical constants of the potential of the magnetic field responsible for the solar diurnal variations , as the only two calculations yet made show serious disagreement .
A new determination of this potential is now in progress at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
Whatever be the result of this calculation , however , there will remain several important features of the phenomenon which require explanation\mdash ; in particular , the seasonal changes .
By the elucidation of these difficulties , terrestrial netism may throw light on the ionization of the upper atmosphere .
The variables at disposal in the theory are , unluckily , too numerous to get very definite knowledge of any one of them from a single source , and therefore it is peculiarly fortunate that there is a kindred but independent set of phenomena , produced by the moon jointly with the sun , which promises very valuably to supplement the knowledge furnished by the solar diurnal variations .
It should be specially instructive to compare the seasonal changes of the two sets of phenomena .
S2 .
The general outlines of this paper may be briefly indicated here .
The principal known facts regarding the lunar magnetic variation are first summarized , and it is shown that , so far as they go , they seem most easily explicable in the manner proposed by SCHUSTER for the solar diurnal variations .
Nothing in the nature of a proof is yet possible however .
Some new facts , deduced by harmonic analysis of existing material for the lunar variation at the separate phases of the moon , are then described , and it is pointed out how they confirm the hypothesis of the variable conductivity of the atmosphere in a very direct way , and provide a powerful means of quantitatively investiatng the changes of the conductivity .
The details of the calculation of these new harmonic terms in the lunar variation , and the actual tables of results , are collected in Part III .
of the paper .
In order to discuss the bearing of these observational results on the theory , it is necessary to extend SCHUSTER'S calculation of the effect of an atmospheric oscillation , under the influence of the earth 's radial magnetic forces and the variable conductivity of the air , in producing * That there is a highly conduoting layer in the upper atmosphere is also indicated by the bending of electric waves round the earth .
'Phil .
Trans , vol. 180 , p. 467 .
SCHUSTER , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 180 , p. and FRITSCHE , St. Petersburg , 1902 .
EARTH ; S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
magnetic diurnal variations .
The calculations are given in Part II .
, in a very general form ; the work is in some respects simpler and more direct than in SCHUSTER'S investigation , owin to the adoption of the resistivity , instead of the conductivity , as the variable .
The formal results ( which as yet , however , are at a somewhat incomplete stage ) are reduced to numerical form and compared with the observed data .
The whole of the discussion is collected in Part I. , and it is shown that the fourth harmonic component of the lunar variation favours the assumpt that the atmospheric conductivity may fall to a very small value during the night hours .
The question of the seasonal variations , as affecting both the solar and lunar effects , is barely touched on , since though it arises naturally from the calculations in Part II .
, better observational material is necessary to realize the proper use of the theoretical work .
A fuller discussion is reserved therefore till the new determination of the potential of the solar variation , already mentioned , is completed .
PART I.\mdash ; Cx'eneral Discussion .
S3 .
The magnetic elements show regular periodic changes depending on the lunar hour angle , just as on the solar hour angle : the latter variations are considerably the greater of the two , and almost entirely mask the lunar variations .
KREIL , $ of Prague , in 1841 , first established the existence of these changes , and since then a very limited number of investigators have confirmed and extended KREIL'S discovery .
Owing to the nearly equal length of the solar and lunar days , the separation of the two effects involves considerable rearrangement of the observed data as usually tabulated , and the smallness of the lunar variation renders it necessary to deal with a large quantity of material in order to eliminate accidental errors .
The determination of the lunar diurnal variation for the three magnetic elements at a single station is therefore a laborious undertaking , and hardly any observatory , as yet , includes such an examination of its observations in its scheme of work .
If the potential of the magnetic field producing these variations is to be found , however , they must be computed not merely for one , but for several stations , well distributed on the earth 's surface .
This formidable task would be much * Bohemian Society of Sciences , 1841 .
BROUN , 'Trevandrum ) tions , ' I. , 1874 ; CHAMBERS , 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 178 , p. 1 ( 1887 ) ; ' Batavian Observations , ' BERGsbfA and VAN DER STOK , vols .
I. , III .
, IX .
, X. , , also ' Proc. Roy .
Acad Amsterdam , , 1887 , and ' Archives Neerlandaises , ' .
; FIGEE , 'Bataviau Obscrvations , ' XXVI .
, 1903 ; LAMONT , 'Sitz . .
K. Akad . .
Wiss 1864 , t. 11 , 2 , Munich .
SABINE , 'Phil .
Tranls 1853 , 1856 , 1857 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc X. , 1859-1860 .
Also the published observations at St. Helena , Toronto , Hobarton , and Cape of Good Hope ( edited by SABINE ) , and at Melbourne , Dublin , and Philadelphia .
AIso AIRY , 'Greenwich Observations , ' 1859 and 1867 .
Also Moos , 'Bombay Magnctic Observations , ' 1846-1905 , vol. II .
( 1910 ) ; itnd IMELEN , ' Met .
Zeitschr May , 1912 .
VOL. CCXIII.\mdash ; A. 2 DR. S. CHAPMAN ON THE DIURNAL yARIATIONS THE expedited if various observatories would undertake the reduction of their own data on a uniform plan , and it is partly in the hope that some may be induced to co-operate in this work that the present preliminary paper has been written .
S4 .
When determined from the mean of a number of whole lunations , the lunar diurnal variation is found to be always of the same character , for every element and at every station : it consists solely of a very regular semi-diurnal oscillation .
Other harmonic components of relatively small amplitude may be present , but their lack of regularity and consistency proves them to be accidental inequalities which are no real part of the phenomenon .
This simplicity makes it probable that the lunar diurnal variation will be easier to explain than the solar diurnal variation .
theory of the latter naturally suggests that the former is due to the tidal oscillations of the atmosphere .
These oscillations have very little effect upon barometer , the ordinary diurnal barometric variation being a thermal and not a tidal effect ; but a lunar barometric tide does exist , and has been evaluated with a considerable degree of accuracy at some tropical stations ( St. Helena , Singapore , and Bntavia The explanation gains weight from the fact that at perigee the lunar magnetic variations are of distinctly greater amplitude than at apogee , and there is some evidence that the ratio of the amplitudes at the two seasons is that which would be predicted by the tidal theory , though the observational results do not suffice , as yet , to establish this definitely .
S5 .
Dr. VAN BEMMELEN , at Batavia , has recently collected all the existing determinations of the lunar magnetic variation for different stations , and has examined this material , together with newly computed data for other stations , to see whether the magnetic field which produces these effects has a potential , and whether the latter has its source above or below the earth 's surface .
He finds that most of the field , at any rate , has a potential , and that this arises partly above and partly below the earth 's surface , but that the internal field is too great to bs merely a secondary induction effect .
This result should be accepted with some reserve , at present , not only on account of the imperfections of the data , but also because the seasonal change of the variations was disregarded ; in certain elements at some stations the summer and winter variations are of opposite sign , and this renders it unsafe to take the mean variation for the whole year .
At many stations , unfortunately , the data so far computed apply only to the whole year , so that if this material was to be used , no course was possible save to adopt the mean of the year for all .
One important result of VAN BEMMELEN'S work was to show that the principal term in the potential of the lunar variation field was of the form ( in the usual language of harmonic analysis , a tesseral harmonic of the second kind and third * SABINE , ' Phil. Trans 1847 ; 'Batavian Observations , ' 28 ( 1905 ) .
See 'Trevandrum Observations ' ( BROUN ) , vol. I. , p. 137 , and SABINE'S and FIGEE'S discussions already cited .
'Met .
Zeitschr May , 1912 .
EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
degree ) .
This is in accordance with the theory that the lunar atmospheric tide is the main cause of the phenomenon , although , of course , it does not prove this to be the case .
S6 .
So far reference has been made entirely to the lunar variation as determined from a number of whole lunations , as has been generally done ( the exceptions are Trevandrum , Bombay , and Batavia ) .
It will be remembered that SCHUSTER'S theory of the solar diurnal variation involved the hypothesis of a variable conductivity depending on the sun 's hour angle .
This should , of course , also affect the electric currents which arise from the lunar atmospheric tide , and so make the lunar magnetic variations depend on the sun as well as on the moon .
In the course of a lunation , however , the angle between the sun and moon , viewed from the earth , changes from to , and the mean lunar variation for such a period cannot be expected to show any special dependence on solar time .
At any particular lunar phase , however , the solar day hours , during which ( over a given part of the earth ) the atmospheric conductivity is greatest , occur at a definite part of the lunar day , this part changing with the lunar phase ; and it has , in fact , been found* that the lunar variation determined from the mean of a number of days all at the same lunar phase is not of the semi-diurnal form .
The variation curve goes through a regular cycle of change with lunar phase , in such a manner as to leave the mean variation over a whole lunation of the simple form already described .
The magnetic needle is most mobile during the day hours : at certain seasons of the year , BROUN found that the amplitude of the lunar diurnal variation of magnetic declination at Trevandrum was five times as great during the solar day hours as during the night hours .
These facts clearly show that the conductivity of the medium in which the electric currents flow to produce the lunar magnetic variation depends on the position of the sun ; and since it is unreasonable to suppose that the mechanisms concerned in producing the lunar and solar diurnal magnetic variations are materially different , the assumption of variable conductivity in SCHUSTER'S theory is confirmed in a very definite and independent way ; in SCHUSTLR'S discussion two barometric oscillations , diurnal and semi-diurnal , were concerned , and it was necessary to explain why the resulting magnetic variations , deduced on the assumption of uniform conductivity , did not bear the proper ratio to one another .
This might be because the conductivity was not uniform , or because the ratio of the two oscillations was different in the upper regions of the atmosphere from that indicated by the barometer .
This latter uncertainty is absent in the case of the lunar variations , where there is only a single barometric oscillation , from which arise magnetic variations of other periods , depending on the solar hour angle .
S7 .
In order to examine the effect of this variable conductivity , it is natural to determine the harmonic components of the lunar diurnal variation for different lunar By BROUN , CHAMBIiRS , FIGEE , and Moos in the investigations already cited .
'Trevandrum Observations , ' vol. I. , p. 121 .
Dn .
S. CHAPMAN ON THE DIURNAL VARIATIONS OF THE phases , but ( rather strangely ) this has only once been done hitherto , and then without result .
* CHAMBERS obtained an analytical expression for the variation and its dependence on phase , which satisfactorily represents the observations , but it is not of a simple character .
His formula was , where is the .
of the solar day , is the mean period of a lunation in solar days , and is the age of the moon in solar days ; and are the observed variations at new moon and one-eighth phase respectively .
This formula , it will be noticed , expresses the lunar variation as , in reality , a solar diurnal variation , the solar time , being the variable ) which merely runs through a cycle of change depending on the a ge of the moon .
This , in fact , was CHAMBERS ' view\mdash ; he termed the variation ' ' luni-solar.\ldquo ; It will be seen later , howeyer , that there is a true lunar semi-diurnal variation which remains unchanged throughout the course of a lunation , as well as luni-solar components governed by the position of both bodies .
As to CHAMBERS ' expression for the variation , while it is numerically correct , it does not aid in terpreting the phenomenon , because it depends on two complex curves and ,2 ( h ) , for which no analytical expression was obtained ; these two curves are not independent , as will appear later .
S8 .
FIGEE determined the harmonic coefficients of the diurnal and semi-diurnal components of the variation at each lunar phase , and came to the conclusion that " " regular variation of the movement of the magnetic needle with the moon 's phases is not indicated by the observations at Batavia.\ldquo ; It will be shown , on the contrary , that the Batavian observations agree with those made at other places in manifesting considerable regularity of change with lunar phase .
S9 .
MoosS has made the valuable suggestion that the luni-solar variation may be regarded as a simple lunar variation the amplitude of " " part of which goes through a series of wave-like changes in the course of a lunation He multiplies each hourly value of the mean lunar variation determined from a whole month by , where is the lunar time reckoned from upper culmination ( one hour equalling , and is the angular measure of the moon 's age , reckoned as at new moon , and changing through in the course of a month .
Curves showing the results of this calculation are exhibited for comparison with the observed curves , for the eight lunar phases , for the element of declination .
The general similarity of the two sets of curves is sufficiently striking to show that the suggestion is in the right direction .
It will be seen that this idea is , formally , much akin to SCHUSTOR'S idea of variable ' Batavian'Observations , ' XXVI .
, Appendix , p. 195 , S44 .
CHAMBERS , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 178 ( 1887 ) .
'Batavian Observations , ' XXVL , Appendix , S44 .
S 'Bombay Magnetical Observations , ' 1846-1905 , vol. II .
, S526 .
EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED By THE MOON AND SUN .
conductivity , and is most naturally interpreted in that way .
Moos , however , seems not to have thought of the matter in this simple light , but speaks of changes in the radio-activity of the earth 's crust , due to a tidal action , as possibly responsible for the luni-solar changes , perhaps by ionizing the atmosphere indirectly ; and also of the reflection by the moon of ionizing radiation from the sun .
* S10 .
Since the mean variation of any element over a whole lunation is almost exactly a semi-diurnal wave , Moos 's expression is equivalent to though he did not himself write it out formally thus .
The examination of the data by harmonic anfiysis , which is effected in the third part of this paper , is the best means of numerically testing Moos 's suggestion , bein preferable to a mere comparison of two sets of curves by eye .
The desire to apply this test partly occasioned the present re-examination of the existing data , which also has in view the comparison of the results of these past determinations of the lunar magnetic variation ( on which enormous labour has been spent ) to see how far they confirm one another , and gauge the possibility of obtaining accurate information from them .
Moos 's suggestion implies the presence , in the lunar diurnal variation at a particular lunar phase , of first and third harmonic components of amplitude equal to half that of the semi-diurnal component , and with phase angles which , respectively decrease and increase by with each change of lunar phase , the epoch of the second component remaining constant .
No other relations or components would satisfy the above equation .
S11 .
The calculations from the observational data show that while first and third harmonic components the above phase relations are present , the amplitudes are not generally in accordance with Moos 's equation .
Moreover , a fourth harmonic component , which was calculated in the first instance merely because to do so involved scarcely any trouble after the other components had been computed , was also found to be present , of quite appreciable amount , and obeying an unexpected phase law ; its phase angle increases during each lunation by , twice the amount of change in the phases of the first and third components .
There is considerable accidental error in the determinations of the phase angles and amplitudes at each lunar phase , as , of course , the material is much subdivided .
While , however , the phase angles go through an easily recognizable monthly cycle , the amplitudes show no regular variation with lunar phase ( the mean of a number of lunations is dealt with , of course , so that perigee and apogee occur at different phases during the period ) .
The mean of the amplitudes at the separate phases gives , therefore , the best determination of the amplitudes of the first , third , and fourth * ' Bombay Magnetical Observations , ' 1846-1905 , vol. II .
, S527 .
It may be mentioned that earlier investigators had egarded the lunar variations as possibly due to the direct or indirect action of induced magnetism in the moon , arising from solar or terrestrial magnetism , or both .
components , as well as of the second ; and similarly , by correcting the separate phase angles by the amount indicated by the regular phase law , and taking their mean , the accidental error of the determined phase angle at any particular lunar phase can be much reduced .
In this way , as described more fully in S27 , the expression of the lunar variation at every period of the lunation , complete as far as the fourth harmonic term , is obtained .
It is found that the amplitudes of the first and third harmonics are often unequal ; sometimes their amplitude exceeds that of the second component , but generally they are less , down to about half this amount .
The determined values of and in the formula , ( B ) which has been found to fit the observations , are given in Tables XI .
, XII .
, and XIII .
for all the stations and elements for which data were available .
Moos 's representation , it is seen , though it pointed in the right direction , is of too simple a character to represent the phenomenon ; the solar excitation which it indicates is a matter which concerns the whole earth , and this action cannot be represented by a simple harmonic factor at each individual station .
S12 .
SCHUSTER* has calculated the effect of an atmospheric oscillation with a velocity potential ( which is also the main component of a lunar diurnal tide ) in producing , under the influence of a variable conductivity of amount ( where is the zenith distance of the sun from each particular point on the earth 's surface ) , magnetic variations of one , two , three and more periods in the solar day .
Adopting the rather more general expression sin , . . . . .
( C ) where is the colatitude , is the longitude , and is the local time , he finds that the resulting magnetic potential ( apart from a constant factor ) is of the form , ( D ) where is the velocity potential .
The coefficients and are numerical constants which depend on and ; their values are tabulated in the paper referred to .
It is shown in Part II .
of the present paper that the above equation ( D ) holds good , whatever be the functional relation between and , and this calculation is 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 208 , p. 163 .
represents the tesseral function .
where is the zonal harmonic of degree EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
adapted , in S23 , to cover the case of the luni-solar magnetic variations .
It is there shown that the equivalent expression to ( D ) is in this case ( apart from a constant factor ) This expression , it should be noticed , consists of series of harmonic components of one , two , three , and more periods in the lunar day , with phase angles which depend on the age of the moon .
In the second series the phase angles increase by 2 per lunation ; this phase change is very rapid , even for the diurnal term , and with the lunation divided up into not more than eight parts , hardly comes within the range of observation , even if the coefficients were of the same order of magnitude as the coefficients .
The theoretical values of are , however , much less than those of the important members of the set of coefficients , and theretore this part of the magnetic potential can be neglected .
The other part consists of terms of period whose phase angles increase by 2 per lunation ; thus the phase of the first harmonic decreases by each lunation , that of the second component remains constant , while the third , fourth , and higher components increase by amounts , and so on .
This , however , is exactly the law of phase change which is indicated by the formula ( B ) , which was determined empirically from the observations .
At new moon , when , the formula indicates that all the harmonic components shouJd have the same phase angle , or differ by 180 degrees exactly ( since the coefficients may be of different sign ) .
The data obtained in this paper show a very satisfactory agreement with this conclusion , when the extreme smallness of the whole phenomenon is considered .
S13 .
The amplitudes must next be considered .
The actual calculations necessary for the comparison of theory and observation are given in S25 , and only the results obtained will be cited here .
It appears that as regards the relative magnitudes of the first three components in the lunar variation , there is tolerably good agreement with the results derived either from SCHUSTER'S simple theory , or from the more general theory of Part II .
of this paper .
The numerical constants might be altered to fit the observations better , but it seems hardly worth while to do this till better observational material is available .
The given constants were chosen to represent a function which should have a large maximum at midday , and should be small and nearly constant during the night hours .
S14 .
The deciding factor between the two expressions for is found to be the amplitude of the fourth harmonic component .
Three tables are given in S25 to illustrate this .
They give the ratio of the amplitudes of the four harmonic components to that of the second component , for the three elements X , , Z. The first table is that calculated on the hypothesis , the second that calculated from , and the third gives the observed values .
The simple form of gives altogether too small a value for ] , while the second expression for gives values of the right order , at any rate .
Perhaps the detailed calculations in Part II .
have not been carried to a sufficient degree of approximation , as the expressions for do not converge very rapidly .
When better data are available , this point must receive consideration .
Enough evidence , however , has been brought forward to show that the fourth harmonic component of the lunar variation favours the hypothesis that the conductivity during the night hours is small compared with its value during the daytime , and that the rate of recombination of ions in the upper atmosphere ( assuming this to be the seat of the effect ) is rapid , as would naturally be expected .
The proper discussion of the observations , whether of the lunar or solar magnetic variations , can only be made on the basis of a reliable determination of the numerical coefficients of the various tesseral harmonics in the potential , derived from a number of observatories properly distributed over the globe .
The significance of the lower harmonics in the lunar variation makes it desirable to obtain the terms in the potential down to those of the fourth type \mdash ; not only for the lunar variation , but also for the solar variation ; its fourth harmonic shows a sufficient degree of constancy , at most observatories , to entitle it to respect as having definite physical significance .
PART II.\mdash ; Mathematical Theory .
S15 .
The problem in hand is to determine the current function of the electric currents induced in a spherical shell of fluid by its quasi-tidal motion across a radial magnetic field of force , the electric conductivity of the fluid at any point being a known function of the angular distance between that point and another ( that with the sun at its zenith ) which uniformly rotates round the axis of the sphere .
The velocity potential of the motion will be expressed as the sum of a number of terms such as , where is a surface harmonic of degree and type , and is the longitude measured towards the east from some standard meridiau , at which the local time is The colatitude and zenith distance of the sun will be denoted by and respectively ; It is not asserted that any observational evidence has beeIl brought forward in favour of the particular numerical constants here chosen , but only that the observations indicate the presence of an appreciable term in depending on , and that this term , if present , may be expected , on general physical grounds , to be of such a sign as to diminish the value of at night as compared with the value by day .
, 1913 .
EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
if is the declination of the sun , evidently we have where .
The conductivity and resistivity at the point will be denoted by and respectively , being , of , equal to unity .
For the present we shall suppose that and are finite and continuous functions of , so that they can be expressed as FOURIER'S series in over the range will certainly satisfy this condition , and the case of will be considered later .
Further , it will be assumed possible to express as a TAYLOB'S series in , and it is in this form that we shall suppose the resistivity to be given , as one of the data of the problem .
Theoretically this is a limitation of the problem , as there are some functions which cannot be expressed in the form stated ; for instance , if the conductivity were proportional to that hemisphere on which the sun is shining , and zero or constant over the other hemisphere , could not be so expressed .
But in reality nothing of value is lost , as any continuous function can be approximately expressed in the form of a TAYLOR'S series to any desired degree of accuracy .
[ Some further explanation of this use of series may be desirable .
The series used in the analysis are all written as infinite ones , for the sake of formal simplicity and theoretical completeness .
In the detailed execution of the work , however , only a finite number of these terms can be utilized , as workable general expl.essions for the coefficients in the current function cannot be obtained .
The actual procedure , therefore , must be to take a finite number of terms of the series for transform this into a polynomial in also , of course , will have only a finite number of terms ) , and work out the coefficients of in terms of the coefficients of this polynomial to as great a degree of accuracy as is practicable and desirable .
This is the course of the work in .
SS18-20 , where the terms of the FOURIER'S series for are taken , and the expression for is worked out as concerns the terms in , and .
The resistivity is introduced into the calculations for purely mathematical reasons , on account of certain analytical advantages which it seems to offer .
The results obtained in this way , in terms of the coefficients of , might be got otherwise by an extension of the method used by SCHUSTER .
This identity of results is clear from the fact that if the coefficients of are small enough the TAYLOR'S series for is absolutely convergent , and the legitimacy of the use of is in this case immediately evident ; the formal results , however , do not depend on any property of convergence , so that the results obtained by using remain equally valid with those obtained in any other way , even though the series for should become non-convergent .
This is one of many instances in which it is possible and advantageous to use expressions which may VOL. CCXIII.\mdash ; A. 2 become -convergent to obtain results which can be got less simply in other ways .
Whether the final result is convergent depends in this case only on , and not on the processes of analysis used to deduce from \mdash ; Added June 11 , 1913 .
] We shall write , therefore , where , and are constants ( introduced for convenience ) whose meaning will be explained later , and the coefficients are given numbers .
Expanding in terms of , we have , where and ( since is given for by Here we have written In virtue of the definitions of and , we have Next we consider the differential coefficients of .
We have , .
We shall write for ; evidently we have EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED By THE MOON AND SUN .
S16 .
Following SCHUSTER'S notation and treatment , the earth will be regarded as a uniformly magnetized sphere of radius , whose magnetic potential may be resolved into the zonal harmonic of the first degree and the tesseral harmonic of the first degree and type .
The former harmonic is much the larger of the two , as the inclination of the magnetic to the geographical axis is small .
The radial force can be expressed as where is a constant not differing much from ( the force being measured positive outwards ) , and is now the longitude measured from the meridian west of Greenwich ) containing the magnetic axis .
The components of electric force , X and , measured towards the south and east respectively , are being the locity potential .
If we express X and in the form where is the known resistivity and the thickness of the conducting atmospheric shell , the function will be the current function of the electric currents produced by X and ( neglecting electric inertia ) .
The function is the potential of a system of electric forces which in the steady state are balanced by a static distribution of electricity revolving round the earth , and causing a variation in the electrostatic potential which is found to be too weak to affect our instruments .
To determine we shall eliminate , thus obtaining the equation ( 1 ) sin .
Instead of using the resistivity , SCHUSTER worked with the conductivity ( using the special form ) , in order to avoid the difficulties introduced by " " the high and possibly infinite values which would take when the conductivity sinks low or vanishes.\ldquo ; * These difficulties , however , are found not to be serious , and the work is greatly simplified by the use of , which enables to be determined directly , without first evaluating , as is necessary when is kept as the variable quantity .
The investigation can also be made much more general , without formal complexity , when is used .
* SCHUSTER , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 208 , p. 190 .
Recalling the , expressions for in terms of the velocity potential , the lefthand side of the last equation , after division by Ca , may be written* ( 2 ) The right-hand side of our equation for , after division by Ca , becomes equal to ( 3 ) .
We suppose to be expressed as the sum of a number of tesseral harmonics , where is a numerical coefficient , has been written for ranges ( possibly ) from to .
The contribution of each such term to the total value of the last expression is easily seen to be the product of into where we have inserted the values of and its differential coefficients , and have transformed the first line by means of LAPLACE'S equation So far and have been defined only for positive and zero values of ; we now extend the definition by the equations *Ibid .
, pp. 188 , 189 , EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
A 93 This enables us to write expression ( 3 ) in the form , , , where When is positive , substituting our expressio1ls for and , we find Since , in the original equation for , a change in the sign of only affects the term in the first term , from our last expression we may at once write down value of , being positive , by changing the sign o. Thus , S17 .
For convenience and clearness , some well-known formulae of transformation will now be set down .
These have been much used by SCHUSTER in his papers , and DR. S. CHAPMAN ON THE DIURNAL yARIATIONS OF THE the equations , and some formulae derived from them , will be denoted by the same Roman letters which he uses .
* , . . . . .
( A ) , . . . . .
( B ) , ( C ) , ( D ) , . . . . .
( E ) .
( F ) Making use of these equations , we obtain the following expressions:\mdash ; In , the second term remains the same , while the expression in square brackets in the first term becomes These expressions for are of the type Now by equations ( B ) and ( C ) , it is evident that , and can be expressed as the sum of a number of tesseral harmonics all of type or all of type ( at will ) , and of degrees ranging , by steps of 2 , from , and respectively .
Further multiplication by can be so arranged as ibid. , pp. 187-189 .
MAGNETISM PRODUCED By THE MOON AND SUN .
to leave the type unchanged , while extending the range of the rees by .
Also by equation ( A ) , the , which , it will be remembered , is a power series in , leaves the type unchanged while it increases the range of the degrees of the resulting tesseral harmonics .
In every case , therefore ( positive or negative ) , can be expressed as the sum of a number of terms such as .
Therefore if we write for the sum of all the expressions ( 2 ) resulting from each term in the velocity potential , the fundamental equation ( 1 ) for takes th rlll ( 4 ) where is a coefficient whose value can be determined in terms of and the coefficients in the TAYLOR'S series for .
By equating the coefficients of harmonics of the same degree and type , on the two sides of the equation , we obtain equations to deter mine the coefficient in terms of the 's and the known constants of the velocity potential .
In practice this must be done by a process of successive approximation .
Knowing , from the form of the above equation , which is linear in and , that every can be expressed as a TAYLOR'S series in ' and so on , we can determine this series by successively assuming that all save one particular variable are zero , and considering this variable alone , it may easily be seen that the phase angle of every term in arising from a particular term in is the same as that of the latter .
S18 .
SCHUSTPR has worked out the values of for the special form of conductivity already mentioned , and for the two terms and in the velocity potential to the fourth order of approximation , and he finds that the numerical coefficients of the terms ars such that only the first order term ( depending , in our notation , on ) are large enough to be detectable by observation .
The present calculation will not be carried so far , therefore , and will not include terms of higher order than or .
Also , since in the expression for the term depending on the inclination of the magnetic to the geographical axis is multiplied by the small factor , the part of depending on this term will only be calculated as far as the first order .
Further , since the actual atmospheric oscillations seem to be mainly performed in the simplest mode possible , so that for the principal terms , the second order terms will be neglected for the smaller harmonics in the velocity potential , for which We therefore consider the terms in which depend upon a term in where and are quite general , except that in the terms depending on we shall suppose since when term ( 2 ) depending on vanishes when ) .
It will first be necessary to write out the developed expressions for , , as far as the terms in .
No other values of in give terms containing .
It is convenient to write down first of all the values of , omitting and higher terms .
- As already stated , in the last two lines we have substituted in working out the numerical coefficients , as also in all other terms with as factor .
in the above expressions the term occurs , it may be replaced by .
EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
S19 .
Consider now the terms arising from a term in .
The only term of corresponding type involving , on the right-hand side of equation ( 4 ) , which does not vanish , is .
Consequently , to order , and and no other term is of order .
Next , taking terms of order , it is evident that these can only arise from , , which involve Equating the sum of the coefficients of the terms containing these harmonics , with factors and , to zero , we get the following general expressions for to order ( 5 ) If the type of any of these coefficients exceeds the degree , it must be set equal to zero .
No other terms are of order So far no restriction has been placed on .
In making a further approximation , we shall not write out general expressions , but shall consider the effect of the second order terms and on two specific terms in the velocity potential of the atmosphere , viz. , and , which give rise in to terms and - .
The terms of the proper order on the right-hand side of ( 4 ) are those involving from , and ( b ) those involving .
from and where VOL. CCXIII .
DR. S. CHAPMAN ON THE DIURNAL yARIATIONS OF THE Considering the diurnal variation first , the terms are found , from the formulae at the foot of p. 296 , to be and the terms ( b ) are The sum of the coefficients of any particular term in the above , must be equated with .
The values of thus calculated are given in Table I. It should be remarked that has been replaced by , and the coefficient of will be denoted by S20 .
The second order terms arising from the semi-diurnal atmospheric oscillation are similarly written down as follows:\mdash ; ( a ) ( b ) sirl } The values of calculated from the above expressions are given in Table II .
EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
I.\mdash ; Velocity Potential .
, , , , , , TABL II.\mdash ; Velocity Potential .
, ' , , , , , , , .
EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
As this paper is primarily concerned with the lunar diurnal variation of the earth 's magnetism , the numerical values of the coefficients arising from expression ( 2 ) owing to the inclination of the magnetic to the geographical axis will not be written down here .
This can at once be done , when necessary , from the equations ( 5 ) , as also the terms in the current potential arising from diurnal and semi-diurnal atmospheric oscillations of degree higher than the type .
S21 .
The main general result of our investigation is the same in form as that of SCHUSTER'S more special calculations , viz. , that the current function of electric flow induced under the action of the vertical force in a shell of air oscillating with a velocity potential , under the influence of a variable resistivity depending on the zenith distance of the sun , is ( 6 ) In order to obtain the magnetic potential of the variation caused by the flow of air , a factor must be inserted before each term We have considered only those ternoe in the resistivity which depend on and , though the general theory has been given for any number of terms .
If then , we have for the conductivity , to the same degree of approximation , If we put this becomes In SCHUSTER'S calculation , the last term was omitted , so that was taken equal to zero , while and were written and respectively .
If we make these substitutions in Tables I. and II .
, it is readily verified that the present results , as far as they go , reduce to those obtained by SCHUSTER .
The extra ternoe depending on give the effect of the term in S22 .
Finally , a word must be said with regard to the legitimacy of our analysis , considering the fact that if falls to zero , , the resistivity , must become infinite .
Regarding the matter physically , it is evident that an infinite resistivity is not likely to introduce spurious terms into the current potential , and an examination of the equation ( 1 ) for will show that an actual infinity in would only lead to a zero term in R. But such an infinite term should not occur in the analysis , and it is clear that by altering the constant term in , so that never falls to zero , the above calculations become formally and really legitimate ; when we wish to return to the actual case we must appeal to the ' law of continuity and the fact that our mathematics is applied to an ordinary physical problem , to allow us to pass to the limiting value of in the final result .
The latter is expressed as a power series in , and if is sufficiently diminished , this series might become non-convergent .
But the actual results do not indicate any such behaviour , and are , as we have seen , identical with those obtained by SCHUSTER'S method ( in which the conductivity only was considered ) , so far as the scope of the two calculations is the same .
S23 .
So far the calculations have been kept quite general , in that no relation between the causes of the variable conductivity and of the atmospheric oscillation has been assumed .
Thus they may both be caused by the sun , in which case the mathematics is that applicable to the theory of the solar diurnal variations of the earth 's magnetism .
Without much modification , however , they may equally well be adapted to the case of the lunar diurnal variations .
We shall consider it sufficient , for our purpose , to regard the solar and lunar periods as equal at any one time , allowing for the slow cumulative effect of their inequality by introducing a variable phase angle into the expression for , the quantity on which and depend .
Thus , where is now the local lunar time of the standard meridian ( measured from upper culmination ) , and measures the lunar phase , increasing from to from one new moon to the next .
The velocity potential will be .
The calculations will be formally the same if we now change the meaning of to , so that the velocity potential becomes .
Thus by equation ( 6 ) the current function obtained is The terms on the left of the last lin change in phase through an angle 2 each month , viz. , for the diurnal term , zero for the semi-diurnal term , for the third component , and for the fourth component , as the observa- tions indicated .
The terms on the left change phase by 2 each month , a change so rapid that it would be difficult to detect in the observations , affected as these are by accidental error .
The coefficients , moreover , are very small , so that altogether these terms are negligible .
One interesting result of the analysis may be noticed here , viz. , that the main EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
lunar term in the magnetic variation , , has a coefficient which does not ( to the order of accuracy of our calculations ) show any dependence on solar declination .
Thus any seasonal change in this term of the magnetic potential cannot be referred to the effect of the varying declination of the sun .
This is not quite the case with regard to the main diurnal term in the solar diurnal magnetic variation .
S24 .
We will now consider what are likely values of and to substitute in our formulae , in order to get a comparison with the observed data .
The conductivity should rise to a maximum during the daytime and fall to a minimum about midnight .
It cannot actually be less than zero , though it is not so clear that it is better to have the least value of zero than to have it slightly less , in order to make the mean nightly conductivity small in amount .
However , we will keep to this condition , and make ; it is found that the following is a very satisfactory expression for the representation of a function of which is large for values of up to , and much smaller , while never negative , from to The following table and figure gives the value of for every It is seen that the mean of the nine day values is times that of the nine night values .
The function has a physically false maximum at midnight , but this is of very small amount , and some such feature cannot be avoided with so simple an expression for I might remark here that in working out Part II .
of this paper I had not contemplated the possibility of the coefficients of being greater than unity , as seems to be necessary if the atmospheric conductivity is small and nearly constant at night .
The size of these coefficients makes it to the calculations some steps further than I have already done , before a sufficient degree of approximation is rived at .
The work suffices , however , to establish the point with which I am most immediately concerned , , that the size of the fonrth harmorlic in the lunar variation is inexplicable with the form for , while the addition of a term introduces a fourth harmonic in the theoretical result , which agrees , as to order of magnitude , with the observed quantity .
Better observed data are now being obtained , and concurrently I shall proceed to carry the theoretical calculations iurther , in order to test the exact numerical agreement bstween theory and observation.\mdash ; June 11 , 1913 .
Diagram illustraling the assumed form for the atmospheric conductivity .
S25 .
Substituting the values in the expressions for in Table II .
( the table which relates to the lunar variation ) , we get the following values for .
The terms for which are omitted , as they merely produce a monthly change in the mean magnetic elements .
EARTH'S TISM PRODUCED By MOON AND SUN .
The following are the values of the corresponding tesseral harmonics:\mdash ; , cos , , , , , Since all the stations for which we have observational data , in Part III .
, are tropical , we shall consider the values of X , , and for such stations only .
Hence , in our expression for V , the magnetic potential ( which we must now use instead of the current functiol all terms containing may be ected , will be omitted .
Thus we get , .
, , .
In the bove expression , the terms depending on represent the main seasonal effect .
Since it is evident thab when is put equal to after the differentiatior ] , only the terms in V which not contain will contribute any result to and .
But the above equation shows also that these terms always contain , so that at equatorial stations and change sig in passing from summer to winter .
Tables XI .
and XIII .
corroborate this sufliciently well , especially when it is remembered that the stations are not quite equatorial , and that the obliquity of the magnetic axis also produces a disturbing effect .
A further consequence of the above equations is to indicate that at the equator the terms in X which depend on , i.e. , the seasonal terms in the horizontal force variation , vanish .
This agrees with the known fact that at tropical stations the X variation hardly changes throughout the year .
Table XII .
illustrates this , especially for the most nearly equatorial observatory , Batsvia For comparison with observatio1l we shall write down the values of the ratios of the amplitudes of the first , third , and fourth harmonic components to that of tho VOL. CCXIII.\mdash ; A. 2 second ; for X we take the mean value of in our equations , and neglect the seasonal changes ; for and the terms in and are taken separately .
The values of the amplitudes of the second component in the several cases are also given .
It should be remarked that our calculations have not been carried sufficiently far to give the seasonal variation of the fourth component , but it is less important than the term in , for such stations as Bombay .
We thus obtain the following table:\mdash ; From SCHUSTER'S calculations , taking , the following table of values of , in which the seasonal changes are disregarded , is obtained:\mdash ; Our observational data only allow us to make the roughest possible comparison with these calculations , and the following table is enough to give an idea of what agreement is present .
It is got by taking the mean amplitudes at Bombay , Batavia , and Trevandrum ( as many as afford data in each case ) for the ole year , combining the columns April to September and October to ch together by simply averaging the amplitudes regardless of phase .
The size of the fourth harmonic shows that the term in has distinct importance , for without the presence of uch a term , as the second of the above tables show , there should be no appreciable fourth harmonic at all .
As regards the other harmonics , there is little to chose between the two expressions for , though EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
the more complex one might be made to fit better than the figures indicate , if the constants of the formula were altered a little .
This , however , is not worth while doing till better observational material is to hand .
PART III .
tcrial .
S26 .
The following are the data which were available for examining the dependence of the lunar magnetic variation upon lunar phase:\mdash ; Station and period .
Snb-division of month .
Seasonal division .
DECLINATION .
Bombay HAMBERS ) .
Trevandrum . . . .
Four uarters , hight phases onth nths oSept , Batavia ( 1883-99 ) HORIZONTAL FORCE .
( Moos ) ( 1872-89 ) ( 1873-79 , Bombay MBERS ) Eight eclinationNov .
Sept. July .
1883-85 ) Batavia ( 1883-99 ) VERTICAL FORCE .
Bombay ( Moos ) . . . . . .
Eight phases As for declination .
For purposes of comparison , the Trevandrum results for the separate months of the year have been combined into the four quarters and the two half years ( as for Bombay ) ; also the 25 hourly values have been reduced to 24 .
The separate tables of the 24 hourly values will not be repeated here , nor the and , and and coefficients of the first four harmonic components which have been calculated from those tables .
The harmonic formula used has been In the case of all the coefficients , the adopted unit is C.G.S. units of force ( the declination results were also reduced in terms of force ) , and this was reckoned positive towards the North , West , and upwards .
S27 .
The tables of harmonic coefficients showed that they were subject to an accidental error of amount small in itself , but quite a considerable fraction of the whole effect .
This is not surprising when the minuteness of the lunar variation is considered .
The tables showed some outstanding features , however , in particular the constancy ( within reasonable limits ) of and are generally smaller and rather more irregular in amount for the eight phases .
The phase angles showed a fairly regular increase through with the moon 's age , while showed a less ular decrease of the same amount .
No regular change in was noticed , partly because is small and therefore not well determined , till the Batavian summer declination results were considered ; in this the fourth harmonic happened to be exceptionally large , and the phase therefore better determined .
This clue having once been obtained , the same feature , viz. , a monthly increase of in the phase angle , was verified to present in most other cases , where was not too small .
The examination of the phase laws followed by the harmonic components was first undertaken by means of vector diagrams , and independently of the theoretical considerations which suggested themselves later , and which are embodied in SS12 , 23 .
The real test of the phase laws suggested by the vector diagrams was made , of course , by correcting the phases by the amount through which the law indicated they had changed from the period of new moon .
The corrected values , ( where bein the moon 's age , in angular measure , at the particular lunar phase considered ) should then all be the same ( for the same value of the suffix and different values of ) , apart from accidental error .
The Tables III .
X. show that this is the case , generally , as far as we have any right to expect , though , in some instances , the agreement is not very apparent .
Even in these cases , however , the mean value of frequently agrees so closely with the mean value of as to show that the phase law is acting , though its manifestation is obscured by large accidental error .
This agreement between , and is a noticeable feature , of which , as well as of the monthly changes of phase , the theory of the lunar variation gives a satisfactory account ( S23 ) .
On general grounds , too , it is to be expected that if any simple relation exists at all between the phase angles of the four harmonic components , this relation should assume the simplest form ( which proves to be equality ) at new moon , when the sun and moon are on the same meridian .
The equality of the phase angles at new moon points to a single exciting cause ( the lunar atmospheric tide being suggested ) of the four components .
The regular monthly change in the values of , and results in the EARTHS MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
disappearance of the corresponding harmonic components from the lunar variation , as determined from the mean of a whole number of months .
It is found , indeed , that any such component still remaining is of purely accidental character .
As to the amplitude of the various components , this appears to be independent of the lunar phase , the irregularities being accidental .
The mean of the amplitudes at the separate phases has therefore been taken as the best value of the true amplitude , except that a correction has been applied to allow for the fact that the instantaneous amplitude is greater than that deduced from the mean of a few days , during which the phase is varying .
Thus , if we tabulate a function , where is the lunar hour angle ( one hour ) and the age of the moon in angular measure , in lunar hours for successive days over an interval of the month to , the mean result may be taken as where are the mean values of these functions over the range to This equals , showing that the phase of the mean wave is equal to the true phase at the mean time , but that the amplitude is reduced in the ratio .
The corresponding factors to counterbalance this are for Trevandrum , where is one-quarter of a month , or 2 ' and , and at other stations , where and .
The values of the mean amplitudes , thus corrected , and of the phases of the four components , reduced to new moon , for all the stations , are summarized in Tables XI.-XIII .
The resolved parts of the amplitudes in the direction of the mean phase ( where the separate values of depart much from the mean ) might have been taken , but this would not have albered the mean amplitude greatly , and seemed hardly worth while in view of the large accidental variations of the determined amplitudes .
In Tables XI.-XIII .
the values of the mean phases have been characterized by affixes 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , representing ( in descending order.of merit ) the reliability of the mean as judged from the accordance of the separate values of .
Only the numbers marked 1 to 8 can be considered at all satisfactory .
As regards the accordance of the results from the same or different stations , the best feature is the extremely good agreement between CHAMBERS ' and Moos 's values for Bombay , for different periods of time and for different instruments .
* * VAN BEMMELEN , in his paper in the 'Met .
Zeitschr May , 1912 , already referred to , remarks that the two computations do not agree at all , but this must evidently be due to a mistaken reduction of CHAMBERS ' results , which he quotes at three times their proper value .
TABLE III.\mdash ; Trevandrum .
Declination West .
Lunar phase .
November-January .
Full moon FirstquarterLastquarterMeanNewmoon February-April .
New moon First quarter Full moon Third Mean The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.S. unit .
MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
TABLE III .
( continued ) .
The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.S. unit .
; TABLE IV.\mdash ; Bombay ( CHAMBERS ) .
Declination West .
The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.S. unit .
EARTH'S MAGNETISM PPRODUCE BY THE MOON AND SUN .
TATAB IV .
( continued ) .
The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.S. unit .
VOL. CCXIII . .
2 TABLE V.\mdash ; Bombay ( Moos ) .
Declination West .
Lunar phase November-January .
TABLE VI.\mdash ; Batavia .
Declination West .
Lunar phase .
April-September .
33 17 October-March .
The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.S. EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY TH MOON AND SUN .
TABLE VII.\mdash ; Bombay ( CHAMBERS ) .
Horizontal Force .
May-J The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.S. unit .
TABTA EII .
( continued ) .
August-October .
27 Mean . . .
Mean . . .
Mean . . .
Mean . . .
Mean . . .
79 Mean . . .
79 Mean . . .
79 Mean . . .
79 Mean . . .
79 180 52 Mean . . .
79 180 52 178 24 127 38 100\mdash ; 26 192 16 146 April-September . . .
October-March .
The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.8 .
unit .
EARTH'S MAGNETISM PPRODUCE BY THE MOON AND SUN .
TABL VIII.\mdash ; Bombay ( Moos ) .
Horizontal Force .
The unit of force in the ) of amplitude is C.G.S. unit .
TABLE IX.\mdash ; Batavia .
Horizontal Force .
Lunar phase .
April-September . . . .
62 . . .
62 . . .
62 . . .
62 . . .
62 . . .
62 . . .
62 . . .
62 . . .
62 70 October-March .
TABLE X.\mdash ; Bombay ( Moos ) .
Vertical Force ( upwards ) .
The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.S. unit .
EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
X. ( continued ) .
\mdash ; Batavia .
Vertical Force .
Lunar phase .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
Lunar se .
April-September .
22 293 9 311 Octobel.-March .
The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.S. unit .
TABLE XI.\mdash ; Declination West .
Bomba Borr The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.S. unit .
EARTH'S MAGNETISM PRODUCED BY THE MOON AND SUN .
TABLE XII.\mdash ; Horizontal Force .
TABLE XIII.\mdash ; Vertical Force .
The unit of force in the tables of amplitude is C.G.S. unit .
VOL. CCXIII.\mdash ; A. 2

