418 Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ Dee .
21 spoken of be held in the smoke-box in a vertical instead of in , * horizontal plane , the lines of motion are much less curved , and we might expect to eliminate the influence of centrifugal force .
I have not succeeded in this way in getting rid of the dark plane ; but since under the magnifier the curvature of the motion was still quite apparent , no absolute conclusion can be drawn .
Y. " On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum .
" By G. D. Liveing , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received December 14 , 1882 .
In previous communications* to the Society we have described the spectra of what we believe to be three compound substances , viz. , cyanogen , magnesium-hydrogen , and water .
In these investigations our chief aim has been to ascertain facts , and to avoid as far as possible adopting any special theory regarding the genesis of the spectra in question .
Thus , in speaking of the magnesium-hydrogen spectrum , which consists of three sets of flu tings closely resembling in character the flame spectrum of hydrocarbons , we remark:\#151 ; " We have been careful to ascribe this line and its attendant series to a mixture of magnesium and hydrogen rather than to a chemical compound , because this expresses the facts , and we have not yet obtained any independent evidence of the existence of any chemical compound of those elements .
" In dealing with the cyanogen spectrum , we sometimes refer to it as the " nitro-carbon spectrum , " in order to convey that " we are dealing with a spectrum invariably associated with the presence of nitrogen and carbon , in such conditions that chemical union takes place .
" Finally , in summing up our observations on the spectrum of water , we remark:\#151 ; " In writing of this and other spectra which we have traced to be due to compounds , we abstain from speculating upon the particular molecular condition or stage of combination or decomposition which may give rise to such spectra .
" The difficulties we have met with in endeavouring exhaustively to clear up many apparently simple spectroscopic problems , on a basis of fact as opposed to theory , is further illustrated in the concluding remarks of our paper entitled " Investigations on the Spectrum of * " On the Spectra of the Compounds of Carbon with Hydrogen and Nitrogen .
I and II .
\#171 ; Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , pp. 152 , 494 .
" On the Spectrum of Carbon , " ib. , yol .
33 , p. 403 .
" General Observations on the Spectrum of Carbon and its Compounds , " ib. , vol. 34 , p. 123 .
" On the Spectrum of Water , " vol. 30 , p. 580 , and vol. 33 , p. 274 .
" Investigations on the Spectrum of Magnesium , " ib. , vol. 32 , p. 189 .
1882.1 On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum .
41$ Magnesium , " wherein the following passage occurs:\#151 ; " The chemical atoms of magnesium are either themselves capable of taking up a ffreat variety of vibrations , or are capable by mutual action on each other or on particles of matter of other kind , of giving rise to a ffreat variety of vibrations of the luminiferous ether ; and to trace satisfactorily the precise connexion between the occurrence of the various vibrations and the circumstances under which they occur , will require yet an extended series of observations .
" ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , Specific spectra have been satisfactorily proved to emanate from the compound molecules of cyanogen , water , and magnesium-hydrogen , so far as we can interpret in the simplest way the many observations previously detailed .
The fact that a fluted spectrum is produced under certain conditions , by a substance which does not give sucn a spectrum under other conditions , is of itself a proof that the body has either-passed into an isomeric state or has formed some new compound ; but we are not entitled to assert , without investigation , which of these two reasonable explanations of the phenomena is the true one .
There is , , however , a spectrum to which we have had occasion to refer in the papers on the spectra of the compounds of carbon , which closely resembles that of a compound substance , and which we , in common with some other spectroscopists , have been led to attribute to the hydrocarbon acetylene , without , however , being able to bring forward such rigid experimental proofs of its origin as we have adduced in the case of the three substances above referred to .
In other words , the experimental evidence that the hydrocarbon flame spectrum is really due to a hydrocarbon was always indirect .
Thus , we showea that many flames containing carbon , such as those of hydrogen mixe with bisulphide of carbon or carbonic oxide , and the flame ot cyanoo-en in air , did not give this spectrum , and these particular flames3 are known , from the investigations of Berthelot , to be incapable of generating acetylene under conditions producing mcom plete combustion .
On the other hand , we found that a flame ot hydrogen mixed with chloroform , which easily generates acetylene , gives the hydrocarbon flame spectrum in a very marked manner , and ; ; it is known that the ordinary blow-pipe flame , in which the same spectrum is well developed , contains tliis hydrocarbon .
These and other experiments point to the intimate relation of hydrogen and carbon in the combined form of acetylene^ to t e pro duction of this spectrum during combustion .
In our various observations on the spectrum of the electric arc taken in different gases , t e flame spectrum was always noticed , and seemed to be in epen en o the surrounding atmosphere .
In the mode in which those experi ments were conducted , it was easily shown that the carbons were never free from hydrogen , and that the gases always contame races Profs .
G- .
D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ Dec. 21 of aqueous vapour .
Under these conditions acetylene is formed^ synthetically during the electric discharge , the line spectrum of hydrogen being absent ; so that we were never convinced that the spectrum was not due to the former substance .
It is well to remark in passing , that our previous work on the spectrum of the carbon compounds was mainly directed to that par-ticular spectrum which is characteristic of the flame of cyanogen , and only indirectly to the flame spectrum of hydrocarbon .
We were further supported in connecting the latter spectrum with acetylene , by observing that cyanogen compounds are continuously formed when the arc discharge takes place in gases containing nitrogen , and that in all probability their formation is due , as Berthelot has shown , to a reaction taking place between acetylene and nitrogen .
Berthelot is positive in his assertions that cyanogen is never formed by a direct combination between carbon and nitrogen , and that any such apparent combination is due to impure carbon , or to the presence of an imperfectly dried gas ; in other words , hydrogen is essential to the production of cyanogen under such conditions according to the views of Berthelot .
Such considerations led us to suggest the following view , expressed at the time the experiments were made , as to the origin of the hydrocarbon flame spectrum .
" The mere presence of the latter spectrum feebly developed in the electric discharge in compounds of carbon supposed to contain no hydrogen , appears to us to weigh very little against the series of observations which connect this spectrum directly with hydrocarbons .
" ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 160 .
) " The arc in the middle of a magnesia crucible often shows no trace of the hydrocarbon set , although the cyanogen are strong .
If , however , puffs of air or carbonic acid are passed into the arc , the hydrocarbon lines are produced .
" " When the hydrocarbon spectrum is strong the brilliancy and number of the cyanogen groups that are visible are undoubtedly increased , so that the one variety of vibrations seems to affect the other .
This is easily accounted for by the chemical interaction which takes place between acetylene , nitrogen , and hydrocyanic acid .
The hydrocarbon spectrum is brought out at once in the magnesia crucibles by moistening one of the poles .
All such actions seem to show that hydrogen is essentially connected with the production of this fluted spectrum just as nitrogen is with the cyanogen series .
" ( I\amp ; .
, vol. 34 , pp. 126 , 127 .
) The fact that carbonic oxide , which is one of the most stable binary compounds of carbon , forms a distinct spectrum of a character similar to that of the flame spectrum , tended to support the view that the flame spectrum might originate with acetylene .
The similarity in the character of the magnesium-hydrogen spectrum to that of the hydro1882 .
] On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum .
421 carbon flame spectrum induced us to believe that they were due to similarly constituted compounds , and inasmuch as we felt sure about the accuracy of the view which assigns the former spectrum to some compound of magnesium with hydrogen , we accepted the analogy in favour of the supposition that acetylene is the substance which produces the flame spectrum ; or , at any rate , that acetylene is a necessary concomitant of the reaction taking place during its emission , and consequently might give rise to this peculiar spectrum .
Having examined this question in the way described , we adopted the view* of Angstrom and Thalen as to the genesis of this spectrum in opposition to the views of Attfield , Morren , Watts , Lockyer , and others , who held that this spectrum was really due to the vapour of carbon. .
The delicate character of the experiments which were required to discover the origin of the peculiar set of flutings in the more refrangible part of the spectrum of cyanogen made it apparent that , whatever views as to the origin of the hydrocarbon flame spectrum were adopted by different workers , experimental proof was still wanting to show which was the correct one .
In referring to the theory that carbon vapour is the cause of the peculiar spectrum of cyanogen , we remarked : " Now , the evidence that carbon uncombined can take the state of vapour at the temperature of the electric arc is at present very imperfect .
Carbon shows at such temperatures only incipient fusion , if so much as that , and that carbon uncombined should be vaporised at the far lower temperature of the flame of cyanogen is so incredible an hypothesis that it ought not to be accepted if the phenomena admit of any other probable explanation .
" ( " Proc. Hoy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 506 .
) With the object of being able to exhaust this question , a special study was subsequently made of the ultra-violet line spectrum of carbon , in order to ascertain whether any of its lines could be found in the spectra of the arc or flame .
We have found that the ultra-violet lines of metallic substances have as a rule the greatest emissive power , and are often present when no trace of characteristic lines in the visible part of the spectrum can be detected .
If carbon resembled the metals in this respect , then we might hope to find ultra-violet lines belonging to its vapour , thus enabling us to detect the volatilisation of * This view " was first suggested by Pluck or and Hittorf in the same paper in which they published the theory of spectra of different orders .
They write:\#151 ; " It appears doubtful that the different types depend solely upon temperature .
If so , the temperature varying in the different parts of the ignited vapour of carbon , different types may be seen simultaneously .
We shall not now discuss the influence which the coexistence of foreign gases might have on the spectra of the vapour of carbon , nor may we here decide whether or not in the lower temperature of the flame , a gaseous compound of carbon , not being entirely decomposed , exhibits with the spectra of the vapour of carbon simultaneously the spectrum of the undecomposed gas."\#151 ; " Phil. Trans. , 1865 .
" ( Jan. 26 , 1883 .
) VOL. XXXIV .
2 F 422 Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ Dec. 21 the substance at the relatively low temperatures of the arc and flame .
The test experiments made on this hypothesis are recorded in the paper entitled " General Observations on the Spectrum of Carbon and its Compounds .
" It is there shown that some seven of the marked ultra-violet spark lines of carbon occur in the spectrum of the arc discharge , although one of the strongest lines , situated in the visible portion of the spectrum at wave-length 4266 , could not be found .
Further , it is proved that the strongest ultra-violet line of carbon does occur in the spectrum of the flame of cyanogen fed with oxygen .
Thus it seems probable that the same kind of carbon molecule exists , at least in part , in the arc and flame , as is found to be produced by the most powerful electric sparks , taken between carbon poles or in carbon compounds .
Now the spark gives us the spectrum which is associated with the highest temperatures , and therefore it is assumed that this spectrum is that of the simplest kind of carbon vapour .
If that be the case , we cannot avoid inferring that denser forms of carbon vapour may exist in arc and flame , emitting , like other complex bodies , a fluted , in contrast to a line , spectrum ; or rather that the two distinct kinds of spectra may be superposed .
Such considerations showed that a series of new experiments and observations must be made with the special object of reaching a definite conclusion regarding the origin of the flame spectrum , and the following paper contains a summary of the results of such an inquiry .
Vacuous Tubes .
We have heretofore laid little stress on observations of the spark in vacuous tubes on account of the great uncertainty as to the residual gases which may be left in them .
The film of air and moisture adherent to the glass , the gases occluded in the electrodes , and minute quantities of hydrocarbons of high boiling-point introduced in sealing the glass , may easily form a sensible percentage of the residue in the exhausted tube , however pure the gas with which it was originally filled .
The excessive difficulty of removing the last traces of moisture we learnt when making observations on the water spectrum , and the almost invariable presence of hydrogen in vacuous tubes is doubtless due in great measure to this cause .
Wesendonck ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , vol. 32 , p. 380 ) has fully confirmed our observations as to this difficulty .
By a method similar to that employed by him , we have , however , succeeded in so far drying tubes and the gases introduced into them that the hydrogen lines are not visible in the electric discharge .
For this purpose the ( Pliicker ) tube was sealed on one side to a tube filled for some six or eight inches of its length with phosphoric anhydride through which the gas to be observed was passed , and on the other side to a similar tube full of phosphoric anhydride , which was in 1882.1 On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum .
423 turn connected by fusion to the ( Sprengel ) pump .
To dry the gas it is not enough to pass it through such a tube or even a much longer one full of phosphoric anhydride ; it has to be left in contact with the anhydride for several hours , and to get the adhering film of moisture out of the tube it has to be heated after exhaustion , while connected as above described with the drying tubes , up to the point at which the glass begins to soften , and kept at near this temperature for some time .
To get most of the gases out of the electrodes the tube must be exhausted and sparks passed through it for some time before it is finally filled with the gas to be observed .
Even when these precautions have been taken , the lines of hydrogen can often be detected in tubes filled with gases which should contain no hydrogen .
The .general result of our observations on the spectra observed in tubes so prepared is that the channelled spectrum of the flame of hydrocarbons is not necessarily connected with the presence of hydrogen ; * it does not come and go according as hydrogen is or is not present along with carbon in the way that the channelled spectrum of cyanogen comes and goes according as nitrogen is present or absent .
Our observations confirm those of Wesendonck on this point .
A tube filled with hydrogen containing a small percentage of cyanogen and exhausted , was found to give plainly the seven channellings in the blue and six channellings in the indigo characteristic of cyanogen , and the hydrogen lines of course strongly , but no more than a trace of the brightest green line of the spectrum of the flame of hydrocarbons .
The use of a Leyden jar brought out no more .
Continued sparking made no sensible difference , the cyanogen spectrum remained , the green line did not alter : and no other line of the spectrum of the hydrocarbon flame appeared .
Tubes filled with carbonic oxide exhibit in general at different stages of exhaustion the following phenomena .
When the exhaustion is commencing and the spark will just pass , the spectrum of the discharge in the capillary tube is usually that of the flame of hydrocarbons and nothing else .
As the exhaustion proceeds the spectrum of carbonic oxide makes its appearance superposed on the former , and gradually increases in brilliance until it overpowers and at last , at a somewhat high degree of exhaustion , entirely supersedes the flame spectrum .
This is when no jar is used , in the earlier stages of exhaustion the effect of the jar is to increase the relative brilliance of the flame spectrum and diminish that of the carbonic * This statement may have to be qualified if the spectrum described as the second spectrum of hydrogen by Pliicker and Hittorf and by Wullner , and recently further investigated by Hasselberg ( " Mem. Imp .
Acad. Sc. , St. Petersburg , " xxx , No.7 ) , be .
the most persistent spectrum of hydrogen at low pressures ; because the statement l iu the text is based on the supposition that hydrogen could be detected with cer-| tainty by the " C " or " F " line .
( Jan. 26 , 1883 .
) 2 \#165 ; 2 424 Profs .
G. D. Liveing and J. Dewar .
[ Dec. 21 , .
oxide spectrum , and at the same time to bring out strongly the lines , of oxygen and carbon ; at a certain stage of the exhaustion , when the flame spectrum is very weak without the jar , the effect of the jar is to bring it out again but without sensibly enfeebling the carbonic oxide spectrum , and without bringing out the carbon lines .
At a still higher stage of exhaustion , when the carbonic oxide spectrum alone ia seen without the jar , the flame spectrum is sometimes , not always , brought out by putting on the jar , though the carbon lines again show well .
At this stage , at which the flame spectrum is not seen at all , the distance between the striae in the wide part of the tube is considerable , and much metal is thrown off the electrodes , which are rapidly heated by the discharge .
Some of these tubes were filled with carbonic oxide made by heating a mixture of potassium oxalate and lime contained in a prolongation of the tube containing the phosphoric anhydride .
Others were filled from a mixture of sodium oxalate and sulphuric acid heated in a flask sealed to a long tube which had the middle part filled with quicklime and the two ends filled with phosphoric anhydride ; and after all the air was expelled and the flask had been sealed off , the quicklime was heated to absorb the carbonic acid .
These tubes showed no trace of the cyanogen flutings at any stage of exhaustion , either to the eye or in photographs of the spectrum .
Nevertheless , in the earlier stages of exhaustion , some of such tubes do show , when the jar is used , a group of three lines in the indigo which is seen in the flame of cyanogen , and has formerly been described by us as part of the spectrum of cyanogen .
We must now , however , retract the opinion that this group is due to cyanogen. .
We have before noted ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 34 , pp. 125 , 127 ) that these three lines are seen under many different circumstances when the cyanogen flutings are absent , and as the flutings also are frequently seen without the three lines , it seems that the three lines belong to some other spectrum than the flutings , and as we have now found them where nitrogen has been carefully excluded , we are forced to attribute them either to carbon or some compound other than cyanogen .
In one case a very little copper-nitride was introduced into one end of the drying tube , and after the whole had been filled with gas and the generating flask sealed off , the nitride was heated so as to mix a small quantity of nitrogen with the carbonic oxide .
In the spectrum of this tube the cyanogen flutings were not visible to the eye , but the ultra-violet set between K and L came out plainly in the photographs .
No hydrogen line could be detected in it .
This is remarkable , because Berthelot did not find that cyanogen is generated by electric sparks in a mixture of nitrogen and carbonic oxide unless hydrogen be also present .
It would , however , be rash to assume that no trace of hydrogen was present because the lines of hydrogen were not 1882.1 On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum .
425 visible in the spectrum , since we know by experience that the electric \#166 ; discharge does not always light up all that is in a tube .
Mercury , for instance , must be present in all these tubes , but its lines do not usually show until the exhaustion is carried to a high degree .
One tube was filled with nitrogen with which was mixed a small percentage of cyanogen obtained by heating a little mercury-cyanide placed at one end of the drying tube .
This tube gave well the channellings in the blue and indigo characteristic of cyanogen , but neither the hydrogen lines nor the spectrum of the hydrocarbon flame .
The \#166 ; cyanogen seems to be scarcely at all decomposed by the spark when thus diluted , for the carbon lines were not brought out by the use of a jar , and the cyanogen spectrum remained after continued sparking .
We remark that Berthelot found it exceedingly difficult to get acetylene from a mixture of cyanogen and hydrogen at atmospheric pressure ; and in order to make this experiment succeed , short and very powerful sparks had to be continued for some hours .
In a tube filled with carbonic oxide mixed with a little air imperfectly .dried , when not too highly exhausted , the carbonic oxide spectrum , that of the flame of hydrocarbons , and that of cyanogen , may all be seen at once superposed when no jar is used .
With a jar and a tolerably high exhaustion the carbonic oxide spectrum , the hydrocarbon flame spectrum , and the carbon line spectrum , may all be seen at the same time .
All the foregoing observations were made when the tubes were viewed end on and the image of the narrow part of the tube thrown on the slit by a lens .
Tubes filled with \#166 ; carbon disulphide and carbon tetrachloride at reduced pressures have been examined by us , but these compounds of carbon are very quickly decomposed by the spark , so that few observations can be made with one tube .
If the exhaustion is not carried very far the spectrum of the hydrocarbon flame is seen both in carbon disulphide and in carbon tetrachloride , when all the precautions above mentioned have been taken to remove moisture , and when no trace of the hydrogen spectrum is visible .
At higher exhaustions the spectrum is a faint continuous one together with that of sulphur or chlorine as the one or other is present .
The spark taken without condenser between electrodes near together in wide tubes filled with saturated vapour of \#166 ; carbon disulphide or carbon tetrachloride dried with phosphoric anhydride and deprived as completely as possible of air by pumping or boiling out , shows the spectrum of the flame of hydrocarbons brightly ; but in tubes filled with carbonic acid gas from ignited sodium carbonate and boric anhydride and sealed off at a high temperature , the spectrum is that of carbonic oxide together with that of oxygen .
Spectrum of the SparJc in Compounds of Carbon at Higher Pressures .
In the spark taken between poles of purified graphite in hydrogen , Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ Dec. 21 the spectrum of hydrocarbon flames is seen , and it increases in brilliance as the pressure of the gas is increased up to ten atmospheres and continues bright at still higher pressures so far as we have observed , that is , up to twenty atmospheres .
The spark without condenser in carbonic oxide at atmospheric pressure , shows both the spectrum of carbonic oxide and that of the hydrocarbon flame ; and as the pressure of the gas is increased , the former spectrum grows fainter , while the latter grows brighter , no jar being used .
The line spectrum of carbon is also visible .
At the higher pressures the flame spectrum predominates and is very strong .
The observations were carried up to a pressure of twenty-two and a half atmospheres .
On letting down the pressure , the same phenomena occur in the reverse order .
All the parts of the flame spectrum , as seen in a Bunsen burner , are increased in intensity as the pressure is increased .
The fact that the effects of high pressure are so similar to those produced by the use of a condenser at lower pressures , seems to point to high temperature as the cause of those effects .
But against this , we have the fact that at reduced pressure we get in carbonic oxide , the carbonic oxide spectrum and the line spectra of carbon and oxygen simultaneously , without that of the hydrocarbon flame .
As we cannot doubt that a very high temperature is required to give the line spectrum of carbon , we must suppose that reduced pressure is unfavourable to the stability of the molecular combination , whatever it be , which gives the hydrocarbon flame spectrum .
Wesendonek has remarked ( .
cit. ) that in carbonic acid at .
pressures too low for the flame spectrum to be developed without a jar , it is only in the narrow part of the tube that the use of a jar brings out that spectrum .
It would appear , therefore , that the constraint , due to the confined space in which the discharge occurs , has the same effect , in regard to the stability of the combination producing the spectrum in question , as increase of pressure .
Cyanogen Flame Spectrum .
Our former observations " On the Flame Spectrum of Cyanogen Burning in Air " were made on cyanogen gas , prepared from well-dried mercury cyanide , which was passed over phosphoric anhydride , and burnt from a platinum jet fused into the end of the tube .
We observed what Pliicker and Hittorf had noted , that the hydrocarbon bands were almost entirely absent , only the brightest green band was seen , and that faintly .
When gaseous cyanogen is liquefied by the direct pressure of the gas , the researches of Gore ( " Proc. Boy .
Soc. , " vol. 20 , p. 68 ) have shown that it is apt to be contaminated with a brownish , treacley liquid , which probably arises from the imperfectly purified or dried cyanide of mercury .
In order to obtain pure cyanogen we have prepared quantities of liquid cyanogen , not by compression , but by passing the already cooled gas into tubes placed in a carbonic 1882 .
] On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum .
427 acid and ether bath .
By this method of condensation any easily liquefiable substances are isolated , and any permanently gaseous substance escapes .
The samples were sealed up m glass tubes into which different reagents were inserted .
After such treatment the cvanogen was used for the production of the flame in dry air or oxygen The liquid cyanogen was left in contact with phosphoric anhydride , Nordhausen sulphuric acid , and ordinary sulphuric acid .
By means of a special arrangement of glass tubing surrounding the flame dry oxygen could be supplied , or oxygen made directly from fused chlorate of potash could , by means of a separate nozzle , be directed on to the flame , and thus perfectly dry and pure gases used lor combustion .
Liquid cyanogen which had remained m presence of the above reagents gave only the single green hydrocarbon line faint y m dry air , all the cyanogen violet sets being strong .
When oxygen made directly from the chlorate of potash was directed on to the flame , all the hydrocarbon flame sets appeared with marked brilliancy .
The set of lines which we have formerly referred to as the three lines or set of three flutings of the cyanogen spectrum , show marked alteration of brilliancy with variations in the oxygen supply .
Thus liquid cyanogen , purified by the action of the above reagents , does yield the spectrum of hydrocarbons on combustion in pure oxygen .
Xrom the great precautions we have taken we feel sure that the amount of combined hydrogen in the form of water or other impurities combining substances must have been exceedingly small , an ia the marked increase in the intensity of the flame spectrum w en oxygen replaces air is essentially connected with the higher temperature of the flame , and is not directly related to the amount of hy rogen present .
This being the case , it must be admitted that the hydrocarbon flame spectrum requires a higher temperature for its production during the combustion of cyanogen than that which is sufficient to cause a powerful emission of the special spectrum of the molecules of cyanogen .
Now the two compounds of carbon which give the highest tempera ur on combustion are cyanogen and acetylene .
Both of these compounds decompose with evolution of heat , in fact they are explosive compoun \gt ; ' , and the latent energy in the respective bodies is so great that it Jane ic in the separated constituents it would raise the temperature between three and four thousand degrees .
The flames of cyanogen and acetylene are peculiar in respect tTiat the temperatuie o mi iv a decomposing molecules is not dependent entirely on the temperature generated by the combustion which is a function of the tension o dissociation of the oxidised products , carbonic acid and watei .
e have no means of defining with any accuracy the temperature w ic i the particles of such a flame may reach .
We know , however , that e mean temperature of the flames of carbonic oxide and hydroponics between two and three thousand degrees , and if to this be added a 428 Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ Dec. 21 which can be reached independently by the mere decomposition of cyanogen or acetylene , then we may safely infer that the temperature of individual molecules of carbon , nitrogen , and hydrogen in the respective flames of cyanogen and acetylene may reach a temperature of from six to seven thousand degrees .
.A .
previous estimate of the temperature of the positive pole in the electric arc made by one of ns , gave something like the same value .
Further evidence of the high temperature of the cyanogen flame is afforded by the occurrence in the spectrum of that flame , when fed with oxygen , of a series of flutings in the ultra-violet , which appear to be due to nitrogen .
The series consists of four , or perhaps more , sets , each set consisting of a double series of lines overlapping one another .
The lines increase in their distance apart on the more refrangible side , otherwise the flutings have a general resemblance to the B group of the solar spectrum .
The accompanying figure gives the general appearance of two of the sets , but is not drawn to a scale .
The four sets commence approximately at about the wave-lengths 2718 , 2588 , 2479 , 2373 respectively .
They are frequently present in the spectrum of the arc taken in a magnesia crucible , and show strongly in that of the spark taken without a condenser either in air or nitrogen .
As they appear in the spectrum of the spark in nitrogen , whether the electrodes be aluminium or magnesium , and do not appear when the spark is taken in hydrogen or in carbonic acid gas , they are in all probability due to nitrogen .
When a large condenser is used they disappear .
The formation of acetylene in ordinary combustion seems to be the agent through which a very high local temperature is produced , and this is confirmed by the observations of Gouy on the occurrence of lines of the metals in the green cone of the Bunsen burner , which are generally only visible in spark spectra ; on this view acetylene is a necessary agent in the production of the flame spectrum during combustion .
The fact that when the arc is taken in a magnesia crucible , although the cyanogen spectrum is strong , the flame spectrum is often invisible , but may be made to appear by introducing a cool gas or moisture , may be accounted for by an 1882 .
] On the Origin of the Hydrocarbon Flame Spectrum .
429 increased resistance in the arc producing temporarily a higher mean temperature .
Experiments in course of execution , where the arc will be subject to a sudden increase of pressure , will , we trust , solve this problem .
Electric Discharge between Graphite Poles in different Gases .
When pure graphite is employed , instead of the ordinary carbon poles , and the arc discharge is taken in different gases , in the same way as was described in our first paper , " On the Spectra of the Compounds of Carbon , " we have noticed some slight differehces which are worthy of record .
In carbonic acid gas , fine channellings are seen covering the whole extent of the spectrum from the low red as far as the blue set of the flame spectrum , the flutings of the one group being observable as far as the next group .
The triple set of the cyanogen flame spectrum remained very strong when all the cyanogen groups in the violet had disappeared .
When the carbonic acid is displaced by hydrogen , the hydrogen lines appear , the hydrocarbon flame and the triple sets remaining bright ; but in this gas the flame group at 431 is particularly well marked , and the carbon line at 4266 keeps flashing in occasionally .
Thus we have in the same field of view the hydrocarbon series , the hydrogen lines , and one of the strongest lines of carbon .
The De Meritens intermittent arc discharge was employed in these experiments , and it is curious to note that hydrogen , instead of favouring the passage of the arc between carbon poles , really introduces some peculiar resistance , perhaps owing to the reduction of temperature by the gas surrounding the arc , or because of the formation of acetylene .
The arc is at any rate much shorter and smaller in section than in air , but the temperature seems to be correspondingly increased , as we may infer from the fact that the hydrogen and carbon lines are now very marked .
The Siemens arc in air does not show the carbon line at 4266 , although we have proved that some of the chief ultra-violet lines occur in this discharge .
The arc taken * in carbonic oxide shows the triple group along with the usual sets of the hydrocarbon flame spectrum , without any trace of the carbonic oxide spectrum being visible .
The occurrence of the triple set of lines , in the absence of other groups characteristic of cyanogen , makes us doubt whether this set has anything really to do with nitrogen .
We are inclined to think that their previous appearance when the arc was taken in glycerine containing nitro-benzole was really due to some indirect effect , and ought not to be taken as proof of the formation of cyanogen in the absence of other characteristic groups under such circumstances .

