180 Mr. R. Mallet on the Origin of the [ Jan. 21 , January 21 , 1875 .
The Right Hon. LYON PLAYFAIR , C.B. , LL. D. , Vice .
President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On the Origin and Mechanism of Production of the Prismatic ( or Columnar ) Structure of Basalt .
" By Robert Mallet , F.R.S. Received December 12 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) The author having briefly traced the history of geological opinion on this subject , from before the period at which the controversy at which the igneous or aqueous origin of basalt might be viewed as settled , and having stated the views of some of the more prominent British authors on this subject of recent date , points out that , up to the present , no clear and definite theoretic views have been enunciated to account for prismatic structure in basalt , and that it is impossible to gather , with any distinctness , from systematic writers , whether prismatic structure be due to contraction by cooling alone , or whether the structure is due to preexisting concretionary or crystalline arrangement of the integral particles of the mass , or to this coacting with enormous external pressures , the origin of which is left perfectly vague , or to some play of successive and joint actions of all these various forces . .
Prof. James Thomson , in a paper read some years ago , and since repeated at the late Belfast Meeting of the British Association , has proposed views , in some respects new , tracing prismatic structure to contraction by cooling only , and has expressed entire doubt as to the part supposed to be played by concretionary spheroids pressed together .
Prof. Thomson 's views , however , are still far from complete , and the mode assigned by him to the production of cup-shaped cross joints in the prisms fails to account for the phenomena .
The aim of the author is to point out in this paper that all the salient phenomena of the prismatic and jointed structure of basalt , as observable in nature , can be accounted for upon the admitted laws of cooling , and contraction thereby , of melted rock possessing the known properties of basalt , the essential conditions being a very general homogeneity in the mass cooling , and that the cooling shall take place slowly , principally from one or more of its surfaces .
Thus , taking the simple case of a tabular mass of molten basalt , whose top surface is level , the depth being great and the other two dimensions 375.1 Prismatic Structure of Basalt .
181 definitely greater than that , and assuming the material at one tem-rature initially , homogeneous and isotropic , and that cooling takes lice from the top surface only , he , on these data , proceeds to condor the phenomena that will successively result by contraction in ioling .
While the mass remains at its upper part still plastic by heat , contrac-on will be met by internal movements and subsidence of the top surface , Ld no cracking or splitting can take place until the material there has icome rigid , enough to break under tensile strain .
He points out that ds degree of rigidity , or " splitting temperature , " is not reached until te top surface has fallen to between 900 ' and 600 ' Fahr. At this temperature the cooling surface begins to separate , by fracture dnetrating perpendicularly to it , into smaller surfaces .
These must be milar and equal in area , and such as that their edges in contact can lake up a continuous superficies .
To relieve the orthogonal strains in le cooling surface , and to meet the above conditions , only three geo-letric figures for the separating surfaces are possible-\#151 ; namely , the equi-tteral triangle , the square , and the regular hexagon .
The author then inquires why the last of these is normally the form ound in nature .
He traces this to the law of least action which governs he play of all natural forces whose final result is produced by the least iossible expenditure of force .
He shows that , in a contracting surface plitting up into equal areas , the expenditure of work will , for the equi-iteral triangle , the square , and the regular hexagon , be approximately as he numbers T000 , 0*680 , and 0*519 .
This economy of force decides the lexagon as the form found in nature .
The diameter of the hexagon , which s the upper surface of the inceptive hexagonal prism , is shown to be fixed ty the relation that subsists between the coefficient of contraction of the ma-erial and that of its extension at rupture by a tensile force at the splitting temperature .
This decides the diameters of the separate prisms .
The splitting by contraction proceeds into the mass always in a direction perpendicular to the cooling surface ; and at any instant the splitting is limited in its progress by the isothermal couche which is at the splitting temperature within the mass ; for within that couche the mass is still plastic .
In the case assumed , the prisms formed are straight and vertical .
When the splitting has proceeded to some distance within the mass , the further cooling of each prism takes place , not only from the top , but from the sides ; and the more important conditions influencing the latter in nature are pointed out .
Any one prism is coldest at its extremity , and its temperature increases along its length to the other end , where the splitting is still proceeding .
The prism is hotter also , for any transverse section , as we approach its axis than about the exterior ; differential strains in the longitudinal direction thus take place , by cooling and contraction , between the successive imaginary couches , taken from the exterior to the axis of the prism , 182 Mr. R. Mallet on Origin of the [ jau which tend to cause the outer portions of the prisms to tear asunder at intervals in length dependent , like the diameter of the prisms themselves upon the relation subsisting between the coefficient of contraction and of extensibility at rupture of the material .
The prism contracts not only in its length , but in its diameter ; transverse fracture at its surface , when it occurs , is therefore due to the resultant of two orthogonal forces , the one parallel to the axis of the prism , as already referred to , and the other in a plane transverse to the axis .
These two forces are proportionate , the first to the length of the prism from a preceding joint or from its extremity , the second approximately to the semidiameter of the hexagon or mean radius of the eouchej and the resultant of these two , at any point taken round the prism , is oblique to the axis and tending towards it in direction .
As fracture in a homogeneous solid always takes place transverse to the line of strain , so the fracture producing a transverse joint takes place oblique to the sides of the prism\#151 ; the obliquity becoming less as the fracture advances towards the axis of the prism , so that when complete it is cup-shaped , the convex surface of the fracture always pointing in the same direction as that in which the splitting of the prism itself is proceeding .
This solution , which is believed to be the first ever presented which , resting upon admitted laws , completely accounts for the production of the very remarkable cup-shaped joints , is verified and illustrated by several diagrams , showing the mode of production of these joints and the modifications of their curvature produced by varied conditions in the cooling .
It is further shown that the partial or complete detachment of certain fragments , frequently observed to be partially or wholly detached from the cusps of the concave side of these joints at and near the solid angles of the hexagon , is a consequence necessarily resulting from the mode of production of the joints themselves .
The author then points out that , in the case of very slender prisms , other ( and mechanical ) conditions besides those of differential cooling enter into the production of the cross joints , which are at more considerable and irregular distances apart , and in planes of fracture often nearly transverse to the axis of the prism .
He also discusses the modifications produced in the prisms themselves , and in their cross joints , by heterogeneity in the mass of basalt itself\#151 ; as , for example , by a more or less previously developed cleavage in the basalt in planes transverse to the axis of the prism , or by the presence of heterogeneous substances imbedded in the mass .
To these latter , and to differences in conductivity or in the cooling energy at different points of the cooling surface , are chiefly to be ascribed the divergences from the normal hexagonal form of the prisms as occasionally observed , the author remarking that where such divergences occur they disappear , and the 375 .
] Prismatic Structure of Basalt .
183 jrmal hexagonal form is returned to in such a manner as to require only le minimum expenditure of work .
The conditions producing greater or less interspaces between the isms , which may vary from point to point of the same mass , are pointed it , as also those which cause the spaces between successive joints in ljacent prisms to coincide in successive planes , transverse to their axes * the contrary .
The author then proceeds to discuss the various positions in space , and datively to each other , which the axes of the prisms must assume , spendent on the general law , as already stated , that the axes of the risms , however produced , are always normal to successive isothermal mokes ' or planes at the splitting temperature , taken in succession within le mass .
If the mass be tabular , as already assumed , and cooling take place only .om the top surface , the prisms will be straight and vertical , extending .'om top to bottom nearly of the tabular mass , and being separated from ae bottom on which it rests by a more or less thick layer of irregular ngular fragments , or of badly conducting material , tufa , scoriae , \amp ; c. , the Dnvex surfaces of the cross joints all pointing downwards .
If the mass cool oth from the bottom and the top , the prisms , vertical and straight , will plit upwards and downwards , and meet in an irregular intermediate tratum of angular fragments , the convex surfaces of the joints of the ) were prisms pointing upwards , and the respective lengths of the upper nd lower ranges depending on their relative rates of cooling .
If the abular mass cool also from one or more of its sides , as by an abutting fall of rock , prisms will be produced with their axes perpendicular to that fall , and will be separated from the vertical ranges of prisms by an aclined stratum of angular fragments .
Also , if the basalt fill a crevasse reducing a dyke , the prisms formed by cooling will be generally trans-erse to the plane of its walls , and meet somewhere towards the centre in stratum of more or less irregular fragments , due in all cases to the irre-ular contractions at the extremities of the prisms breaking up their aass there into wholly irregular forms .
If the upper and cooling sur-ace have a curved convex contour , the prisms will be taper and convergent rom the surface of the mass ; and , on the contrary , if the cooling surface iave a concave contour , or rest upon a concave bottom , the prisms will .e divergent from the interior of the mass , the natural law of economy of vork limiting the length or amount of taper in either case and the ength of the prisms , and at a certain length of prism a new range of arger diameter partially or wholly then commencing .
The convergence \gt ; r divergence are simple consequences of the general law , that the split-ing takes place always normal to the isothermal couches which are at he splitting temperature .
The author then proceeds to develop and illustrate by diagrams some \gt ; f the varied and curious combinations which are observable in nature , VOL. xxiii .
Q 184 Dr. G. Thin on the Anatomy [ Jan. 2\ ) and due to the more or less combined play of these conditions .
He then proceeds to develop , as a consequence of the general law , the production of curved prisms , or those with apparently bent axes , which are observed in almost all basaltic countries .
If the cooling mass of basalt be in one of its vertical sections of such a form that successive isothermal couches .
taken in descending order , are not parallel to the original cooling surface !
as they are in all cases of straight and parallel prisms , but divergent gradually from the cooling surface and from each other , then the lines of splitting of the prisms , always normal to these couches , must be curved in one direction .
This will be true whether the isothermal couches be plane surfaces divergent from a thinner to a thicker part of the mass , or whether they be curved surfaces arising from the mass reposing on a curved bottom and diverging in like manner .
This explanation of the production of curved prisms , without the necessary intervention of external mechanical forces having bent into curves prisms originally formed straight , is , the author believes , here for the first time presented .
He shows that great difficulties exist to the supposition that curved prisms are ever the result of the bending of prisms originally straight by extraneous mechanical effort .
The author having thus shown that all the salient phenomena presented iq nature by the forms , jointings , positions of the prisms , \amp ; c. of columnar basalt are accounted for as consequences of contraction in cooling , submits that this solution given by him must be the true one .
He , however , proceeds to examine at some length the different views of those who have imagined that prismatic and jointed basalt has resulted from the squeezing together , by some wholly imaginary external force , of spheroidal masses more or less resembling those known as " onion stones , " or so-called concretionary spheroids , such as those imagined by Mr. Gregory Watt .
The author submits all points of the subject to a searching examination , and points out that , upon the only probable suppositions that can be made as to the prearrangement of such spheroids , no extraneous force of compression could produce prisms at all , but must squeeze the spheroids instead into rhombic dodecahedrons .
II .
" On the Anatomy of the Connective Tissues .
" By G. Thin , M.D. Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. B-e ' ceived December 23 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) Transparent animal tissues , when sealed up fresh in aqueous humoui or blood-serum , by running Brunswick black round the edge of the cover glass , undergo a series of slow changes , by which , generally within a pc\#174 ; of 2 to 5 days , anatomical elements mostly otherwise invisible b

