III .
" On Deep-sea Thermometers .
" By Staff-Commander JOHN E. DAVIs , R.N. Communicated by Capt. RICHARDS , R.N. , Hydrographcr of the Admiralty .
Received April 18 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) The results of thermometric observations at great depths in the ocean not being of a satisfactory nature , the attention of the Hydrographer of the Navy was directed to the defects in the construction of the Six 's self-registering thermometers then in use , and also to the want of knowledge of the effects of compression on the bulb ; and as it was known that a delicate thermometer was affected in vacuo , it was natural to suppose that an opposite effect would be had by placing them under pressure , and particularly such as they would be subjected to at great depths .
Several thermometers , of a superior construction , were made by different makers , and permission was granted to make experiments by pressure in an hydraulic press ; but much delay was caused by not being able to obtain a press suitable to the requirements , until Mr. Casella , the optician , had a testing-apparatus constructed at his own expense , and the experiments were commenced .
Previous to the experiments being made , Dr. W. A Miller , V.P.R.S. , proposed , or rather revived , a mode of protecting the bulb from compression by encasing the full bulb in glass , the space between the case and the bulb being nearly filled with alcohol* .
A wrought-iron bottle had been made to contain a thermometer , for the purpose of comparison with those subjected to compression ; but it failed , and finally burst under great compression ; it proved , however , of but little consequence , as those designed by Dr. Miller showed so little difference under pressure that they were at once accepted as standards .
Two series of experiments were then most carefully made , at pressures equal to depths of 250 , 500 , 750 , &amp;c. to 2500 fathoms , the results of which satisfactorily proved that the strongest-made unprotected thermometers were liable to considerable error , and therefore that all previous observations made with such instruments were incorrect .
Experiments were also made in the testing-apparatus with Sir Wm. Thomson 's enclosed thermometers , to ascertain the calorific effect produced by the sudden compression of water , in order to find what error , if any , was due to compression in the Miller pattern : an error was proved to exist , but small , amounting to no more than 1.'4 under a pressure of 3 tons to the square inch .
The dredging cruise of the ' Porcupine ' afforded an opportunity of comparing the results of the experiments made in the hydraulic testing-apparatus , with actual observation in the ocean , and a most careful series of observations were obtained by Staff-Commander E. K. Calver at depths corresponding to the pressure applied in the testing-apparatus ; the result was that , although there was a difference in the curves drawn from the two modes of observation , still the general effect was the same , and the means of the two were identical .
From these experiments and observations a scale has been made by which observations made by thermometers of similar construction to those with unprotected bulbs can be corrected and utilized , while it is proposed that by means of observations made with the Miller pattern in the positions and at the same depths at which observations have been made with instruments not now procurable for actual experiment , to form a scale for correcting all observations made with that particular type .
In conclusion , it is suggested that to avoid error from the unsatisfactory working of the steel indices , which , from mechanical difficulties in their construction , cannot always be depended on , two instruments should be sent down for every observation ; and although their occasional disagreement of record may raise a doubt , a little experience will enable the observer to detect the faulty indicator , while their agreement will create confidence .
A description of such deep-sea metallic thermometers as have been invented is appended .

