Researches on Solar Physics .
1872 .
] writer 's observations indicate that the former substance is more stable than the latter , which rapidly becomes more or less coloured ; not improbably these two forms are polymerides , the first being C21 H26 N2O0+H2 O , the second ( C)2 Hl3 N03)M wH2 O. Opianic acid* on heating , furnishes an anhydride of formula C40 H38 019 ; this tends to show that the formula of this acid is not less than C20 H20 O10 ; not impossibly , therefore , the formula of narcotine may be double that usually ascribed to it , and the dimethyl-nornarcotine , methylnornarcotine , and nornarcotine of Matthiessen may be derivatives not of ordinary narcotine , but of its polymerides .
The different modifications of the cinchona alkaloids are not impossibly polymerides of one another .
The Table ( p. 288 ) exhibits the principal differences between codeia and the polymerides above described .
II .
u Researches on Solar Physics."\#151 ; III .
By Warren De La Rue , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Balfour Stewart , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Benjamin Loewy , F.R.A.S. Received March 12 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The authors present in this paper the third instalment of the determination of the areas and heliographic positions occupied by the sun-spots observed by the Kew photoheliograph , comprising the years 1867 , 1868 , and 1869 .
They announce that the fourth and last instalment is in active progress , and will be preceded by the final discussion of the whole ten-yearly period , during which the photoheliograph has been at work .
This final discussion will contain the determination of the astronomical elements of the sun on the basis of photographic observations ; and this work , they anticipate , will not only settle the question of rotation for a considerable time to come , but will also throw light upon many points which have only recently been brought under the consideration of scientific men .
The results in general , they believe , will prove the superiority of photographic sun-observations over previous methods .
The second question which will be discussed is the distribution of sun-spots over the solar surface .
The facts already brought out indicate that the progress of the inquiry may lead to some definite laws which regulate the distribution ; there appear to exist centres of great activity on the sun , and the different solar meridians seem to have various but definite intervals of rest and activity .
In conclusion the authors point out the necessity of devoting in future greater attention to the study of the faculse , and express a hope of seeing photographic sun-observations carried on in this country on a more extended system , connecting from day to day solar phenomena with terrestrial meteorology and magnetism .
* Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xvii .
p. 341 , S III .
( Matthiessen and Wright ) .

