( Abstract .
) The apparatus made use of in this investigation consists of the following parts : 1 .
A copper cube C , containing water kept constantly boiling , and one of whose faces , coated with lampblack , forms the source of radiant heat .
2 .
A brass tube 2'4 inches in diameter , which is divided into two portions , a and 3 .
a. The portion of the tube intended to receive the gases and vapours ; it is stopped air-tight at its two ends by plates of transparent rock-salt , and is attached to a good air-pump , by which it can be exhausted at pleasure .
The length is 4 feet .
An air-tight chamber between the tube a and the cube C. It is kept constantly exhausted ; and the calorific rays , therefore , pass from the radiating plate through a vacuum into the tube a , thus retaining the quality which belonged to them at the moment ot emission .
To prevent the transmission of heat by conduction from the cube C to the tube a , the chamber ( 3 is partly embraced by an annular space in which cold water continually circulates .
3 .
A thermo-electric pile furnished with two conical reflectors , and connected with an excellent galvanometer* .
One of the faces of the pile receives the rays which have passed through the tube a. 4 .
A second copper cube C ' , also filled with boiling water , and whose rays fall upon the second face of the thermo-electric pile .
The two cubes C and C ' thus radiating upon the opposite faces of the pile , tend , of course , to neutralize each other .
Between the cube C ' and the adj acent face of the pile , a screen S is introduced , being attached to an apparatus of Ruhmkorff , capable of extremely fine motion ; by the partial advance or withdrawal of this screen the two sources of heat can be caused to neutralize each other perfectly .
The tube a and the chamber 3 being both exhausted , the needle is brought exactly to zero by means of the screen S. The gas or vapour to be experimented with is now admitted into the tube a ; and if it possess any sensible absorbing power , it will destroy the previously existing equilibrium .
The consequent deflection of the galvanometer , properly reduced , is the measure of the absorption .
In this way the action of eight gases and thirteen vapours have been examined , and also the action of atmospheric air .
Oxygen , hydrogen , nitrogen , and atmospheric air , respectively , absorb about 0'3 per cent. of the calorific rays : this is the feeblest action which has been observed .
The most energetic action is that of olefiant gas , which at the tension of one atmosphere absorbs 81 per cent. of the calorific rays .
Between those extremes stand carbonic oxide , carbonic acid , nitrous oxide , and sulphuretted hydrogen .
Below a certain tension , which varies for the different gases , the amount of heat absorbed is exactly proportional to the density of the gas .
Above this tension the rays on which the principal absorptive energy is exerted become gradually exhausted , so that every augmentation of density produces a diminished effect .
In the case of olefiant gas , for example , a unit-measure ?
th of a cubic inch in capacity being made use of ; for a series of fifteen such measures the absorption was exactly proportional to the quantity of gas ; subsequently the ratio of the successive absorptions approached gradually to a ratio of equality .
The absorption produced by a single measure of olefiant gas of the above volume moved the index of the galvanometer through an angle of 2'2 degrees , the tension of the gas being only 1l-0-6th of an atmosphere .
In the case of vapours , the most energetic is that of sulphuric ether ; the least energetic is that of bisulphide of carbon .
Comparing small volumes at equal tensions , the absorptive energy of sulphuric ether vapour is ten times that of olefiant gas , and ten thousand times that of oxygen , hydrogen , nitrogen , or atmospheric air .
On a fair November day the aqueous vapour in the atmosphere produced fifteen times the absorption of the true air of the atmosphere .
It is on rays emanating from a source of comparatively low temperature that this great absorptive energy is exerted ; hence the aqueous vapour of the atmosphere must act powerfully in intercepting terrestrial radiation ; its changes in quantity would produce corresponding changes of climate .
Subsequent researches must decide whether this vera causa is competent to account for the climatal changes which geologic researches reveal .
Oxygen obtained from the electrolysis of water exerted four times the absorptive energy of the same substance when caused to pass through iodide of potassium ; the greater action being due to the presence of ozone .
The radiative power of gases was examined by causing them to pass over a heated sphere of metal , and ascend in a column in front of the thermo-electric pile ; various precautions were taken , which are fully described in the memoir .
It was found that the order of radiation was exactly that of absorption ; that any atom or molecule which is capable of accepting motion from agitated ether , is capable , in precisely the same degree , of imparting motion to still ether .
Films of gas on surfaces of polished metal are shown to act like coats of varnish .
The author has appended a theoretic chapter to his memoir , in which he investigates the physical connexion of radiation , absorption , and conduction .
In the foregoing experiments we have dealt with free atoms and molecules , and thus fixed upon them individually the responsibility of the effects observed .
The effects are thus detached from considerations of cohesion and aggregation which suggest themselves in the case of liquids and solids .
He points out that the reciprocity of absorption and radiation is a necessary mechanical consequence of the theory of an ether .
But why is one molecule competent to stop or generate a calorific flux so much more powerfully than another ?
The experiments point as follows:--The elementary gases which have been examined all exhibit extremely feeble powers both of absorption and radiation in comparison with the compound ones .
In the former case we have oscillating atoms , in the latter oscillating systems of atoms .
Uniting the atomic theory with the conception of an ether , it follows that the compound molecule which furnishes points d'appui to the ether must be capable of accepting and generating motion in a far greater degree than the single atom , which we may figure to our minds as an oscillating sphere .
Thus oxygen and hydrogen , which taken separately or mixed mechanically , produce a scarcely sensible effect , when united chemically to form oscillating systems , as in aqueous vapour , produce a powerful effect .
Thus also nitrogen and hydrogen , which , when separate or mixed , produce but little action , when combined to form ammonia , produce a great action .
So also nitrogen and oxygen , which , as air , are feeble absorbers and radiators , when united to oscillating systems , as in nitrous oxide , are very powerful in both capacities .
Comparing small volumes at equal tensions , the action of nitrous oxide is 250 times that of air ; a fact , which perhaps furnishes a stronger presumption than any previously existing , that air is a mixture , and not a compound .
Carbonic oxide is about 100 times as powerful as its constituent oxygen ; carbonic acid 150 times as powerful ; while olefiant gas , as already remarked , is 1000 times as powerful as its constituent hydrogen .
In the case of the hydrocarbon vapours , where the atomic groups attain a higher degree of complexity , the action is even greater than that of olefiant gas .
The author also refers to the experiments and observations of Niepce , Angstr6m , Foucault ; but more especially to the admirable researches of Kirchhoff and Bunsen , as regards the influence of the period of oscillation on the rate of absorption .
He points out how the grouping of atoms to systems in a resisting medium must tend to make their periods of oscillation longer , and thus bring them into isochronism with the periods of the obscure radiations made use of in the experiments .
With regard to conduction , the author would illustrate his views by reference to two substances-rock-salt and alum .
He was.once surprised to observe the great length of time required by a heated mass of rock-salt to cool ; but this was explained by the experiments of Mr. Balfour Stewart , who shows that rock-salt is an exceedingly feeble radiator .
The meaning of this is , that the molecules of the salt glide through the ether with small loss of vis viva .
But the ease of motion which they are thus proved to enjoy must facilitate their mutual collision .
The motion of the molecules , instead of being expended on the ether between them , and then communicated in part to the ether external to the mass , is transferred freely from particle to particle ; or , in other words , is freely conducted .
This ( i priori conclusion is completely verified by the author 's experiments , which prove rock-salt to be an excellent conductor .
It is quite the reverse with alum .
Mr. Balfour Stewart 's experiments prove it to be an excellent radiator , and the author 's experiments show it to be an extremely bad conductor .
Thus it imparts with ease its motion , to the ether , but finds difficulty in transferring it from particle to particle .
Its molecules are , in fact , so constituted , that when one of them approaches its neighbour , a swell is produced in the intervening ether ; this motion is immediately communicated to the ether outside , and is thus lost for the purposes of conduction .
The lateral waste prevents the motion from penetrating the alum to any great extent , and hence it is pronounced a bad conductor .
These considerations are dwelt upon more fully in the memoir of which this is an abstract ; and they seem to reduce the phenomena of absorption , radiation , and conduction to the simplest mechanical principles .

