]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
WHITTAKER , E. T.\mdash ; On the Connexion of Algebraic Functions with Automorphic Functions .
PhiL Trans. , , 1898 , vol. 192 , pp. 1-32 .
Algebraic Functions , expressed as Uniform Automorphic Functions .
WHITTAKER , E. T. Phil Trans. , , 1898 , vol. 19 pp. 1-32 .
Automorphic Functions , corresponding to Algebraic Relations .
WHITTAKER , ] ] .
T. Phil. Trans. , , 1898 , vol. 192 , pp. 1-32 .
Differential Equations satisfied by Automorphic Functions ; Lame 's generalised .
WHITTAKEB , E. T. Phil. Trans. , , 1898 , vol. 192 , pp. } PHILOSOPHICAL I. On the of Functions with E. T. WHITTAKER , B.A. , Fellow of by Professor A. R. FOBSYTH , Sc. D. , Received Apri123 , \mdash ; Read May 12 , 1898 . .
Introduction .
IT is well known that if ( 1 ) is the equation of an algebraic curve of genus , then and can be expressed as rational functions of a single variable .
If , however , the yenus of the curve ( 1 ) is unity , and can be expressed as uniform elliptic functions of a variable The natural extension of these results was efl'ected in 1881 by the discovery of automorphic functions ; whatever be the genus of the curve ( 1 ) , and can be expressed as uniform automorphic functions of a new This result is of great importance in the study of algebralc functions .
Instead of taking as the independent variable , and studying functions of on the surface corresponding to the equation ( 1 ) , we can take as the independent variable , and consider the functions in the plane of .
We thus avoid the multiformity of the problem , and can apply the simpler and more developed theory of uniform Comparatively little of the published work on automorphic functions , however , has been written in connexion with the uniformisation of algebraic forms ; in describing either groups applicable for the purpose , or the analytical connexions which exist between , and .
The only automorphic functions known hitherto have been applied to uniformise forms whose genus is greater than unity , are those by certain sub-groups of the modular group ( which will only special curves , containing no arbitrary constants ) , and those in which the polygon is the space outside a number of non-intersecting circles .
These latter have VOL. CXCII .
\mdash ; A. 2.12.98 .
been studied by }IOTT K and are capable of uniformising alJy a form .
As , however , the fundamental is -connected , the Abelian Integrals of the kind , } the factorial functions associated with the not nniform functions of the new variable .
With to the analytical connexion betweell the uniformising and the bless t , of ebraic f proved that if automorpbic function of then { , is anlothel .
automorphic function of the same group , where is the derivative .
therefore satisfies a differential equation of the form where , is some ratiollal function of and SCHOTTKY and WEBER have determined , save for number of undetermined constants , for the groups found by has obtained more general results , applying to tion , but a certain number of undetermined constan ts left in The problem has been formulated by KLEIN as one of conformal representation .
The algebraic forlll which is given can be eseuted on iemann s class , so that , corresponding to every pair of values , z ) of the form , is a place on the surface .
By drawing cuts we can make simply-connected .
Now let be regarded as a function of a new iable t , having the following properties:\mdash ; .
The dissected Riemann surface is to be conformally epresented on a plane in the -plane , bounded curvilinear sides ( namely , the conformal representations of the cuts , each cnt giving two sides ) . .
Of the two sides of the -area which correspond to any cut , one is to be derivable from the other by a projective substitution .
The formed by the combination repetition of these substitutions is to discontinuous .
When has been found satisfying these conditions , and ' will be uniform functions of know by the existence-theorem of POINCARE and such variable exist , the existence-theorem does not connect it ytically with and .
The primary esult of the present paper is , that the uniformisation of form can be effected by automorphic func*'Crcllc , ' vol. 10 ] , 1897 , 1 ) .
'Got ' lS86 , p. .
Math. Soc , 1891 , p. 49 .
S 'Jahresbericht Deutschen , p. 91 .
BRAIC FONCTIONS WITH IORPHTC .3 tions of certain kinds of groups , which are described .
These are eitIJ e groups whose generating substitutions are of period two , or of such groups , This theorem is made to depend on the well-known theorem that any algebraic form can , by birational tran sformation , be presented on Riemann surface with only simple .
A method is given for the division of the into polygons , corresponding to a group generated by real substitutions of period whose double points are not on the real axis ; and the genus of the group is The group is of the kind called by ' Fuchsian ; the into which the plane is divided are simply-connected , and cover completely the half of the ) lane which is above the real axis .
Results are deduced relating to the possibility of uniforlnising any ) functions by automorpbic functions of such groups , and the analytical connexion of the vftriable with the bles of the In S2 , properties of substitutions of period two are fotln which arc of use later .
These substitutions for termed " " self-inverse : ; substitutions , ) to the fact that are the same as their inverse Sllbsti In S 3 , a method is given for carrying out the division of the ) lane into polygons , corresl)tlding to a group by a set of self-inverse substitutions .
It is proved that the ellus of the ) ) ) whose genus is reater than zero .
In utomorphic fnnctions of the are introduced .
group i , s of genus zero , these automorphic functions are rational ebraict , functions of one of them ; the conformal ) resentation of the polygons in the -plane on the ) lane of this variable is considered .
It is shown that the functions which have been obtained solve the following problem of conformal esentation : from any point in the plane of a variable ( not necessarily ) to any other points , C. . .
This set of rays is to be regarded as the boundal .
V of the -plane , and the problem is , to conformally represent the -plane , thus bounded , on a connected region in the of a variable , in such a way that each of the ] ines PA , , . .
gives rise to two distinct lines of the boundary of the egion ; and one of these lines is derivable from the other by projective substitution .
The uniformisation of algebraic functions is afterwards made to depend on this problem of conformal representation .
In S 5 , the analytical relation between the variables and is discussed .
It is shown that they are connected by differential equation which is a rticular case of what has been named by KLEIN the " " ralised L ' equatioo connected by cHER with the equations of harmonic analysis .
In S 6 , the functions which been obtained are applied to the uniforIn i of algebraic forms .
The differential equation in the case is found to be the as KLEIN'S " " unverz \ldquo ; differential equation for hyperelliptic forms , save a of lefr ) arbitrary in equation found to be zero .
that ) ) rbitrarily given bstitutions may generate the group .
to a erelliptic equation of genus f ) are found .
In , { , he consideration of the constants left undetermined in the differential equation of S5 is resumed .
If an of genus be given , the uniformising variable is one of variables , which are here " " quasi-uniformising.\ldquo ; Any variable ffords a solution of the problem of conformally repre- the nann surface of the form on a plane area sides are derived other in ) airs by ) ubstit ntions .
The differen tial equations connecting uniforlnlsing with the quasi-uniformising variables of a given ] gsbraic obtained .
S2 .
of Substitutions .
A projective substitution of a variable is denoted by , where we can always suppose that ad\mdash ; bc The substitutions , from which the groups considered in this paper are generated , are such that Such a substitution is elliptic and of period two ; its multiplier is \mdash ; 1 , and it is its own substitution .
For brevity we shall such substitutions " " \ldquo ; Thus , if denotes any self-inverse substitution , we have , and If be substitution , and be self-inverse substitution , is self .
For the multiplier of a substitution is unaffected by the trans- tion which into If be any numb of scf-inverse substitution.9 , a snbstitution be formed them , then the substitution inver.se to this is formed by taking the substitu- tions in the order .
For if , . .
, are self-inverse substibutions , then obviously .
So if BRAIC FUNCTIONS WITH AUTOMORPHIC FUNCTION , S. oronp formed by the combine repetition of ftl , For let and T.- , be the given substitutions ; let be three self-inverse substitutions ; then we have and The equations to be satisfied by the coefficients of , in order that we may have , and reduce to These equations always admit of a solution for the ratios , if the substitutions and are distinct .
Thus , the substitution is then and can be uniquely determined from the equations [ Added June 2 .
In view of the subsequent limitations to substitutions for which is negative , it ] be noticed that these equations may give either a positive or a negative value for ] Now let denote the group formed from the generating substitutions let denote the group formed from the generating substitutions and As are themselves substitutions of the group , the group be either the same as , or a sub-group of it .
We shall now show that is a selfconjugate sub-group of G. Since , and , any bstitution of can be represented in the form , where , . . .
, 2 , 3 .
I .
T. WHlTT A ON XION OF But Therefore every } can be expressed in terms of and So if the number of substitutions in 2 is even , the whole substitution can be expressed in the form , it is a substitution of the group H. But if the number of substitutions in is odd , there wiJl be substitution left at the end unpnired .
No so inally case So is yays e substitution of , or else the product of and a substitution of H. Now let be any substitution of , and any substitution of G. Then evidently contains , when decomposed the substitutions an even number of ; for , contains an even numbel , and and S each contain the same number .
Therefore is a substitution of the ; which blishes the required result , namely , that is a self-conjugate sub-group .
As an example of this theorem , consider the modular group generated by the substitutions and This is a self-conjugate sub-group of the group formed from the three self-inverse substitutions .
As another example , take the group which occurs in the theory of elliptic functions .
which is formed from the tions , ?
This is a self-conjugate sub-group of the group formed from the three self-inverse ubstitutions where is an arbitrary constant .
WITH AUTOIIORPH UNCTlONS .
In this exceptional case , an constant , , is troduced .
The SOlJ is , that the quantities , all van ish , so tho two equations determining reduce to the equation Any bstitn tfrom nbstitntions contains a -group which be yenerated from ntions .
For let be a group formed from self-inverse substitutions , . . .
Then , as before , any substitution of can be written in the form . .
Now let , . .
Then Thel.efore , the fiumbel of substitutions in is even , 2 be expressed in the form so 2 is a substitution of the generated from . .
If the numbel of substitutions in is odd , we have , therefore , . .
and as we have , in this case , So any substitution of the group can be expressed either in the form , or in the form is a substitution of the group , which is formed from , . . . .
And as in the case , which has been already discussed , we see that is a self-conjugate sub-group of G. [ Added June 2 , may , of course , coincide with ; I am indebted to Professor BURNSIDE for the example , in which this happens .
] Tojind the conditions ihat group ) from any arbitrary projective . .
, may this be a self-conjugate sub-group of a group formed self-inverse snbstitutions .
Let , , . . . .
Let , and let Then .
If this is a self-inverse substitution , we have Thus the coefficients of the substitution must satisfy the conditions . .
The elimination of , from these equations gives conditions between the coefficients of the substitutions T. [ Added June 2 , \mdash ; These conditions are sufficient , but are not actually necessary , as it may be possible to generate the group from a different set of substitutions , for which these conditions are satisfied , although they may not be satisfied by , . .
We shall , later , take , and show that these conditions must be satisfied by the coefficients of whose group gives rise to automorphic functions which uniformise a hyperelliptic form of genus S3 .
Tloe Division of the -plane , corresponding to group formed of Self-inverse Substitutions with Real Coefficients .
A method will now be given for dividing the -plane into regions , corresponding to a group generated from a given set of self-inverse substitutions .
These regions axe to be derivable from each other by applying the substitutions of the group .
Let ALGEBRAIC FUNCTIONS WITH RPHlC be self-inverse substitution with real coefficients the substitution nsforn ) real values of into other real values , so real axis in the -plane ] unaffected by the substitution .
If is negative , it is easily seen the part of the -plane above the real axis transforms into itself ; if is positive , the part of the -plane above the real axis transforms into the part below the axis .
We sball suppose that our groups are generated only from the former kind of substitutions , so we need only consider the half of -plane a- the real axis .
Assuming then throughout that is negative for the substitu{ion considered , it is obvious that the double points of the substitution re conjugate complex quantities ; for the double points are the roots of the equation Now draw any circle the double points of the substitution .
This circle cuts the real axis orthogonally .
Then the substitution trcmsforms the of the -plane outsvde cmd into other .
For , let the double points be , and \mdash ; iS , and let be the point into which any point is transformed .
Then the substitution may be written This shows that the subtended by at the double points is changed into its supplement by the transformation ; therefore the circumfel.ences of circles through the double points transform into themselves , the part on one side of the double points transforming into the part on the other side of them .
By ) the whole plane as made up of the circumferences of circles through the double points , we obtain the theorem .
Now consider the infinite group generated from a number of these selfinverse substitutions , , , .
which satisf.y relation If , we find that it is irnpossible to satisfy- this by ions with conjugate ) ] double points ; ulJd if it will be seen later VOL. CXCII . .
T. WHITTAKIR ON CONNEXION iven ) the division of plane into regions tisfied , in nite number of , by of { , he required kind .
worked-out example given below .
2 , 1898 .
\mdash ; The possibility of the truction given below ends on , of inequalities the constants of in general , construction described carried out , the sides of the polygon cross let . .
) those double , of the subsbit tions S , . . .
lcspectivcly , above the real axis .
Lel be derived by applying the substitution ; or , as we write it , .
, let , , .
, .
, . . .
, ce 1 , the last theoreln , , any point , and the point which is derived from it by self-inverse substitution , lie on circle double points of the substitution .
Therefore on a circle orthogonal to axis .
, . .
, , all } on circles orthogonal to the real polygon be , whose sides arcs of circles orthogonal to the ?
points D spectively , the points . .
Now suppose we.transform the polygoll by )ution Svhere , 2 , . .
We obtain another polygon , likewise formed of ) of circles to the real axis , and having contact with the original polygon along the side sid of this which is the conforma ] representation of , passes through the double points of the self-inverse substitution .
; on ying this substitution to the new polygon , we obtain a third contact with the second along the side which is the conformal representation of .
In this we , as every new polygo1 ] formed , surround it with polygons , each ving one side in COlnlnon with it .
Now consider what pens at any angular point of the polygon , say , when derive polygons in this way .
If we derive a fresh polygon by applying the itution b derived polygon adjoins the original one along the side llow il the by the substiIC FUNCTTONS WTTH I OTE tution this second derived polygon the first its through .
If now gain we deriye a fresh !
) from the ) the substitution , this third derived ygon ( its side }cedin g round in we is derived the original by the ) But since , and ( is the identi c snbstitution ; in ) words , A is polygon .
In the we that corner polygons of circles real .
As approach the real , the polygons become smaller and more crowded the original polygon ?
) ) transforming it tl of . .
, we the ( .
So the olygon is " " region\ldquo ; for the stitubions , annexed figure , the polygons in a } ) ortion the ) } formed from the tions the required ] ' elation Here the double points are given by , D- , The vertex at the intersection of and circles is , at the point the polygons are conformal epresentations of each other , they eqniangular to each other .
the construction of the , all the angular points lent in respect ) the group .
The sllm of the angles round any vertex is ; but these angles of the angles polygon , taken twice .
IIence .
bl ON ALGEBRAIC FUNCTIONS WITH AUTOMORPHTC UNCT I Let ; if we measure the distance between two points , in nonEuclidian sense , by taken along the circle to the rea ] axis and joining the , then we can easily prove that the of corresponding sides of the in this sense all equal ; if we the area of any region by ) taken over that , we can show that the areas of all the are also in this sense ; and the reas and lengths of esponding regions lines in the polygons } ) all equal .
The substitutions which the ) each , other re , in tf , is non-Euclidian sense , } which leave clime .
All the of LOBATCHEWSKI'S geometry hold if , where LOBATCHEWSKI uses the word " " straight line we understand " " circle to the real axis Thus , in non-Euclidian phraseology , we can say the network of polygons has obtained by a rectilinear polygon of sides , deriving new poly- from it by turning the polygon through an angle round the middle points of ts sides , and deriving fresh polygons from these by the same process , until the whole on-Euclidian plane is covered .
This enables us tc see that figure is the of the division of whole into , so familiar of functions .
For that division can be obtained by wing d ] ectil i triangle in the Euclidian plane , deriving fresh triangles by turning it an angle round the middle points of its , and deriving new triangles irom hese by the same process , until the whole plane is covered .
The groups for which the elliptic functions are automorphic are } ) of the groups so obtained ; and similarly the groups , whose automorphic functions are required in uniformisation of algebraic forms of genus higher than unity , are -groups of the group have found .
The reason why we have to pass from dian to non- Euclidian geometry is , that in the Euclidian plane it is impossible to obtain rectilinear figure with more sides than three , the snm of whose angles is to the original we the substitution , the point is nged , and the arcs are ansfortned into other .
So the parts of the boundary of the polygon which correspond to each othel in the transformations of the up are to , to .
, to .
If llow we suppose the polygon lifted up from the ) lane , these corresponding arcs pie together , we obtain a simple closed , without multiple connectivity .
Therefore the genus ( genre , Geschlecht ) of( ( as defined by .
The however may will in firct be proyed to havt1 , snbgroups enluq is greater than zero .
S 4 .
of ' .
fact ) prove that ) enus of of the is .
relation between any two of up is of genus zero ; ) the functions of a one of notc t is one by First , us see of there is in the functiol If , any fonr constants ( which can loss of generality be takell to the relation , then such fnnccion Ifence tl function contains three distinct arbitrary eyer.y ] once , and only once , in of .
The .
constants ) to be ) its zero , the of its tive c Now The function takes every value in the polygon ; therefore conforlnal the will whole -plane .
Alqo , takes the s of tlJe corners of the polygon ; ] ) that takes the at the points As escri b of the polygon , beginning with the until , the value reacl ) ed ; then , ' the same of to the value at .
Then the value is reached , tad so on round the the ) representation of the boundary of ) polygon is a sel.ies necessarily , from the point to the points , . .
, in succession .
) csponds to the arbitrary variati o the ( ' fi om to , . .
espond to small tions in of solution of problem : To } rescnt t a of lines a point , ( the } ; this polygon bein lfinitc dgroup of real of the xriable ftomorphi fnnction of the group .
may note .
that is each of the double ) .
For if and are into each other by ) resl)oint , we roxitllately ALGEBRAIC CTIt ) WITH 5 ( has values in magnitude .
but opposite in ) ) ; ' therefore , and to in the ) the double point .
Let ns now the constants onr disposal , in to see between the arrangement in the and the of subsbi b deternlined by self-inverse , . .
satisfying relation . . . . . .
( ) .
real constants , , in } ion .
But ) relation these three are only equivalent to two .
Thus from the substitutions real constants .
The relation ( 1 ) defines three of these constants in terms of the rest .
Also , this froup is not essentially different from one which is obtained by transforming it with real substitution , which shows that three more of the constants are non essen t there altogether essential real constants involved in the t-figure .
Now considering the -plane , there are points . .
; and each of these is defned by two real co-ordinates , giving as the number of real constants .
But we can make a homographic tran sformation of the plane , so as to transform any three of the points into three arbitrary points .
This shows that 6 of the constants can be disregarded as non-essential .
So we have essential constants in bhe z-figure .
Hence the number .
essential constants is the same in the in [ ADDED June 2 , 1898.\mdash ; This does not in itself prove that for every exists a corresponding -figure ; but the general existence-theorem of KLEIN can be applied to complete the proof .
] Hitherto we have derived the -figure from the -figure .
The ext section is chiefly concerned with the converse problem of the t-figure the -figure .
S 5 .
beiween analytical relations between and are of two kinds ; thosc which terms of and the constants of the those which express in of and the quantities , .
The series solve irsb 1 for functions .
We shall therefore only discuss tionb of the ind ( ) .
As any quantity of , where , ritr 1 stants , is solution of the ) ( blem ( equally lvith , we shall ) be given by enti a equation of which the general integral is ; in other vords , by differential equation of the iorm , where is some function of , and is a Schwal.ziarl derivative .
As , is unaltered by a change of into at , is an automorphic function of the group , and therefol eis function of We have to find .
Considering the conformal ) resentation , we see tflat z and are regnlar functions of each other , except near the points , . . .
Hence , except at these special points , is a regular function of we shall not get an infinity of .
As is a uniform automorphic function of is infinite only at Near ( supposing for the present that no one of the quantities . .
is infinite ) , and uniform functions of each other , so .
, where is not zero .
This gives . . .
Hence aat must be zero to least the order is a uniform fnnction of , but is zero .
So near point , .
, where is not zero , since at the point a simple brancb-point , considered as a function of This gives Thns the infinities } the rational tion R the points .
; nd these points re poles of the kind just found .
Hence , ALGEBRAIC WITH AUTOMORPHIC FUNCTIONS .
where is a polynomial in , and 's are constants .
Now at we must a zero of at least the .
Hence ; and since near can be expanded in the form , by equating to zero the coefficients of and respectively , we obtain ' d ' These conditions enable us to write in the form where . .
are constants as yet undetermined .
Hence the requ.ired relation between is It will be seen that this is the differential equation for the quotient of two solutions of a linear differential equation of the second order with singularities , at each of which the exponent-difference is .
Such linear equations have been studied by KLEIN , * as being the generalisation of LAME'S equation ; and BoCHER'S book , 'Ueber die Reihenentwickelungen der PoterltialTheorie ' ( Leipsic , TEUBNER , 1894 ) , is chiefly concerned with them .
BoCHER proves that the differential equations of harmonic analysis are ] cases of them , We can transform this equation to simpler form .
Put so is a known function of * Gottinger ichben , ' 1890 , pp. 85-95 .
VOL. CXCII.\mdash ; A. the differential equation becomes . .
where . . .
, are new undetermined constants replacing the This can be written or ( 1 ) , where , where . .
are new undetermined , replacing , . .
If iis double point of one of the substitutions , we get a slightly different form of the equation .
In this case , one of the 's is infinite .
Let .
Then , near the expansions are of { he form .
and , whence , by the same reasoning as before , we find that Put Then the equation becomes . .
where again the quantities , .
, are undetermined constants .
This can be written or , ( 2 ) , where . . .
ALGEBRAIC FUNCTIONS WITH AUTOMORPHIC TIONS .
The equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) in terms of in the cases respectie ) The constants , . .
, are as yet undetermined .
The reason is , that have ot yet any use of the condition which in does determine them ; amely , that all the projective utions , undergoes when the independent variable of the differential equation describes a circuit round one of the rities , are such as to leave unchanged a certain circle .
This circle is , in the figure we ve drawn , the real axis of the variable , which is unchanged by all the substitutions of the group ; but it may more geIlera ] be any circle in the -plane .
This condition will be shown in S7 to be equivalent to the determination of complex quantities , which are the , . . . .
But a further consideration of this is deferred S7 .
For the present we shall suppose , . .
determined in such a way as to give the required representation .
S6 .
Application of the Th.eory to the Uniformising of Algebraic Forms .
We have proved that the genus of groups of the kind we have found is zero , and hence the automorphic functions of the group as it stands will not uniformise algebraic forms whose genus is greater than zero .
But we can find roups of the group , and these will be found to be of genus greater than zero .
The process of these sub-groups is to the method of up a Riemann surface of any genus by a number of plane sheets and connecting them along branch lines .
We join together a certain number of ] polygons in the figure , and regard them as forming one new polygon .
This will , in certain cases , be the fundamental polygon of a sub-group of the original group , and may a genus greater than zero .
Consider a double polygon , made up by taking together the original polygon , and the polygon derived from it by transforming with the substitution , and erasing the boundary which separates them .
The new polygon has -sides .
By erasing all the lines corresponding to the line already erased , we obtain a sion of the half-plane into -gons .
The opposite sides of the -gon are easily seen to be transformed into each other by the subslitutions , . .
respectively .
2n-gon is a ' fundamental region\ldquo ; for the group from the snbsti , . . .
We proved in S2 that the group generated by , . .
is a self-conjugate sub-group of the group formed by , . .
; and thal substitution of the latter group is equivalent to a substitution of the former group acting on either the identical substitution or on .
This corresponds to the fact that a point in any of the derived -gons be obtained by transformation with MR. E. T. WHITTAKER ON THE CONNEXION OF the substitutions from a point in either the original -gon or the derived from this by the substitution We have , therefore , obtained a new division of the half-plane into -gons , and found group of substitutions corresponding to it .
We can now find the genus of this group .
The opposite sides of the -gon are transformed into each other by substitutions of the group .
If we suppose the -gon lifted up from the plane , and opposite sides pieced together , we obtain a surface of connectivity .
If is eyen , this surface is of genus where .
In what follows we shall suppose even .
Hence , the between two automorphic functions of this group is , in general of genus The function , which has been obtained , takes every value once in each ; and therefore it takes every value twice in each 2n-gon .
But this is the condition that the algebraic form , made up of the automorphic functions of the group , should be hyperelliptic .
Hence , the algebraic form , which is made up of the tomorphic functions of the group , is of genus ; and , as is a variable which takes every value twice in each polygon , the form consists of rational functions of and , where is a function of defined by an equation , where , . .
, are constants to be determined .
But the function is an automorphic function of the group , for it has the same value , save for a change of sign , at corresponding points in adjacent gons , and therefore the samo value at corresponding points in different -gons .
Hence , . .
we see that the automorphic functions of the group generated from the substitutions . .
are the algebraic functions of the form defined by the equation . .
Thus we have the solution of the problem , " " To find of which the functions rational the surface of the equation are uniform functions ALGEBRAIC FUNCTIONS WITH AUTOMORPHIC We could have foreseen this by regarding the problem as one of conformal representation .
The algebraic functions can be as uniform functi o ) on a Riemann surface which covers the -plane twice , the branch-points being at the points , . . .
Now.ion the point each of the points , .
Then each of the sheets , regarded as an infinite plane bounded by these lines , is represented conformally on one of the -gons in the -plane ; by taking two adjacent onse , we obtain a 2n-gon , which ) to the fact that by taking the two -planes , and connecting them along the line , we obtain the Riemann stlrface as dissecf , ed by cross-cuts .
The analytical connexion between the variables in a hyperelleptic form and the uniformising variable is therefore given by the equations of S5 .
It can be shown that the differential equation found there is , might be expected , one of " " \ldquo ; differential equations for hyperelliptic forms .
It can be obtained by equating of the arbitrary constants in KLEIN'S equation to zero .
There are integrals of the first kind connected with the form .
It is easily proved that if is one of them , then q ) undergoes a projective substitution of the form , where is a constant , when is transformed by one of the generating substitutions of the group .
The theory of Abelian rals of the can be developed with as independent variable ; but developments of this kind are outside the scope of this paper .
One quence of the resultsjust obtained is that we can find the conditions that arbitrarily ) substitutions may the group to hyperelliptic equation of genus Let the substitutions be , T. , . .
, where .
On comparing the results of this section with those of S2 , we see that the conditions may be expressed in form .
[ Added June 3 , 1898.\mdash ; These conditions are not , however , proved to be sbrictly necessary , since the group may be generated by another set of substitutions to which these conditions apply , although they do not apply to , . .
) .
And the * Gottinger Nachrichten , ' 1890 , p. 85 .
inequalities expressing the conditions that the sides of the generating polygon do not cross must also be satisfied .
] In our work hitherto it has been ssumed that .
The case is exceptional ; algebraic of genus unity cannot be uuiIormised by groups of the kind we have found .
For if the construction which has been given were possible for old have , as the fundamental polygon of the roup , a triangle whose sides are , in the olidian sense , straight lines , and the sum of whose angles is .
But this is impossible , for in geometry the sum of the angles of a triangle is always less than .
When the sum is equal to we arrive at the limiting case of Euclidian geometry .
Therefore the construction fails , and we have to devise instead a construction in which Euclidian geometry replaces non-Euclidian .
We take four substitutions , , satisfying the relation which are self-inverse and leave the Euclidian absolute unchanged , i.e. , which are all of the type , where is a complex constant .
By reasoning exactly analogous to that in , we see that these substitutions generate a group , to which corresponds a division of the Iane into rectilinear triangles .
The sub-group which is got by taking adjacent triangles in pairs gives a division of the plane into allelograms ; and this is the well-known group of the doubly-periodic functions , which ormise algebraic curves of unity .
The following shows how the former construction.breaks down in this case .
If possible , let , be four self-inverse substitutions with real coefficients satisfying the relation Then if , we have This has to be a self-inverse substitution , since is self-inverse .
So or ALGEBRAIC FUNCTIONS WITH AUTOMORPHIC FUNCTIONS .
Let and ' \mdash ; iS be the double points of then Therefore This shows that the double points of all three substitutions lie on a circle orthogonal to the real axis .
Since is a self-inverse substitution , the double points of lie on the same circle .
Hence , if we attempt to construct the fundamental polygon , we find that all its angular points lie on the same circle orthogonal to the real axis , and therefore all its sides coalesce , and its area is zero .
This explains why the method fails in this case .
We now proceed to the uniforrnisation of algebraic which are not hyperelliptic .
These only occur when the genus is greater than two .
If we are given any algebraic form of genus , it is known that it can by birational transformation be represented on a Riemann surface of which all the branch-points are simple , i.e. , only two sheets interchange at any branch-point .
Let .
be an algebraic equation corresponding to this surface .
Suppose the branch-points are at ) values of for which , . .
, respectively .
It may of course happen that for some of these values of there are several branch- points erposed on each other on the Riemann surface .
Now in the -plane , join the point to each of the points , . .
and conformally represent this , in the plane of a variable , on the fundamental polygon of a group self-inverse substi utions , as before explained .
Then , as before , is a uniform function of .
At each of the points .
, sa is expansible in a series of ascending powers of either or ' as the point .
happens to be a branch-point or not in the sheet in which the point is situated .
But near this point is expansible in a power-series in terms of , where is the value of at the point ; so in eithel case , is expansibL as a series of ascending powers of ; that is , has 110 branch-point , considered as a function of , at this point .
But since is a uniform function of , the only points where can have branchpoints , considered as a function of , are the points where has branch-points considered as a function of ; that is , the points , . . .
Hetlce , is a uniform nction of Thus , any curve be uniformised by means of groups of formed from self-inverse substitutions .
It will be seen that a great similarity exists between the place occupied by self- inverse substitutions , in the theory of groups of projective substitutions , and the place occupied by branch-points at which only two branches interchange , in the theory of RieIoann surfaces ; the usefulness of the method of self-inverse substi- tutions depends on the fact algebraic forms can be represented on Riemann snrtaces with only simple branch-points .
ebraic functions are nob , however , the only ones which can be uniformised .
proved a general existence-theorem that , if , . .
, are any multiform analytical functions of a variable , a variable always exists , such that .
, are uniform functions of .
The existence-theorem , however , does not connect analytically with the other variables .
If , . .
, are transcen- functions of , their multiformity will not in general be capable of being essed by simple branch-points , and so the groups generated by self-inverse substitutions cannot be used .
S7 .
Undeterrnined Constant.in the Equation connecting and In , certain constants , . .
, in the differential equation connecting and , were left undetermined .
It was there explained that they are to be determined by the consideration that the group of substitutions of leaves unchanged a fundamental circle .
Tn general , however , arbitrary constants occurring similar equations can not be determined by this consideration , as the group Dlay be " " Kleinian i.e. , may not conserve a fundamental circle .
The following discussion approaches the subject from this more general point of view .
The Riemann surface , corresponding to the algebraic form , can be made simply-connected by drawing cuts , and the problem of finding the uniising variable can be divided into two parts , as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
Finding all the variables , which are such that the dissected Riemann surface is represented on the -plane by a curvilinear polygon , whose sides can be derived from each other in pairs by projective substitutions of 2 .
electing from among variables , a variable , which is such that the group from these projective substitutions is a discontinuous group .
We shall call the variables -uniformising variables , to distinguish them from the true uniformising variable In the case of the groups we have found , the differential equation of S 5 gives the ; the of is equivalent to the from among them .
In this section the connexion between the uniformising and quasi-uniformising variables is considered for more general groups .
As an example of the nature of quasi-uniformising variables , take the lgebraic equation * ' Bulletin de la Sociote Math. de France , ' 1883 , vol. 11 , p. 112 .
ALGEBRATC FUNCTIONS WTTH AUTOMORPHIC FUNCTIONS .
To this corresponds a Rielnann rfaCe of two sheets , which can resolved two cuts into a simply-connected surface .
Let be the starss elliptic function associated with this curve ; , its periods .
Consider and as functions of , where .
In the -plane , form a curvilinear parallelogram ABCD , of which the side CB is derived from AD by the substitution , and the side CD is derived from AB by the projective substitution .
Then within this parallelogran ] ABCL ) , the dissected Riemann surface corresponding to the curve is conformally represented ; the sides AD , CB of the parallelogram correspond to the two edges of one cross-cut , and the sides AB , CD to the other ; and , as we have seen , the opposite sides of the parallelogram are derived from other by projective substit tions .
But in spite of this , and are not uniform functions of ) reason is , that is only a quasi-uniformising variable ; when we derive all possible polygons from ABCD by applying the group of substitutions generated from and , the polygons so derived cover the plane ) than once .
The connexion between the ting and quasi-nn iformising variables any algebraic form is given by the following theorems .
If is nising vble of an and is any holomorphic Thetafuchsian function oj .
order two , then the quotient oj two solutions of the differe equation ( 1 ) a mtsing variable .
The term " " bolomorphic Thetafuchsian function of order two\ldquo ; may some explanati VOL. CXCII .
Let be one of the substitutions of the group associated the rlYlising variable .
Then a Thetafuchsian function of order is such that .
is to be holomorphic the arities of the group ) .
Such fnIlctions exist ; for instance , if be an Abelian integral of the first kind associated with the curve , then is a holomorphic Thetafuchsian function of ordel one , and is a holomorphic Thetafuchsian function of order two .
pve the theorem , let where c are any two solutions of ( 1 ) .
Then and have singularities , considered as functions of , only where has singularities .
But in any one of the polygons in the -plane , has no singularities .
erefore , and holomorphic functions of ( except at the essential singularities of the groul ) , which for the present we do not consider ) .
AIso , nnd cannot be zero together at point ; for if they were , by equation ( 1 ) , would be permanently zero .
Similarly for Therefore , at all points within any one of the polygons in the -plsne , we have expansions beginning with ] where are not both zero , and and are not both zero .
And we may not have and zero together , as and are independent solutions of the differential equation .
, at all points except the singularities of the group , either , or , .
, or , ALGEBRAIC FUNCTIONS WITH AUTOMORPHIC FUNCTIONS .
In all these cases and are uniform functions of each other , near the point considered .
So and are , near the point , uniform functions of .
This is easily seen to be true also of Now , let accented letters denote the effect of operating on with a substitution of the group .
We have Now T. Write Then Therefore or , where A and are constants , and Therefore or This shows that , when is transformed by a projectiye substitution of the group , is transformed by a corresponding projective substitution .
Thus the theorem is proved , namely , that the dissected Riemann surface can be * conformally represented on a polygon in the -plane , and the sides of this polygon can be derived from each other in pairs by certain projective substitutions ; in other words , is a quasi-uniformising variable .
An infinite nultber of variables can be got in this way , for depends linearly on several arbitrary constants .
In the above theorem , for the sake of simplicity , we have made a restriction which is ecessary , namely , we supposed that is uniformising variable .
; be any quasi-nniformising if we make the colTesponding extension in the meaning of T. will now have to be a function of , which is holomorphic in of the polygons , and which obeys the law for substitutions of the group generated from the substitutions which change the sides of the -polygon into each other .
Such functions exist ; for , as before , if is an Abelian of the first kind connected with the curve , is such a function .
is , of course , really a multiform function of , if is a iformising variable ; but as it is not possible to pass from one of its values to another by any paths contained within one of the polygons , we can regard it as uniform within that polygon .
The proof in this extended case is just as before .
Thus we have the more general theorem : If is niformising or -uniformising variable of form and is any holomorphic fmction of of order two , then the quotient of two solutions of the diflerential equation is another or -uniforrnising To complete the theorem , we must prove that the convel.se is also true .
Suppose , then , that and both belongr to the set of uniformising and quasi-uniformising variables , so ) a polygon in the -plane corresponds to a polygon in the -plane , point for point , and to each of the substitutions of the group corresponds a snbstitution .
Now is the quotient of two integrals of the eqnation if Now has no branch-point , considered as a function of , and has no branch , considered as a function of , except at the limiting points of the groups .
So , ALGEBRAIC FUNCTIONS WITH AUTOMORPHIC UNCTI O consider point in the -plane , which is not one of the singularities of the group , are , in its vicinity , regular functions of So is holomorphic at all points except the gularities of the group .
Now , denoting as before the effect of a substitution of the group by accents , .
So , is a function of of the kind already specified .
So , converse of the theorem is true .
Thus , if can find any one ' can jind the totality of uniforrnising by We can now find the functions T. If we have ' and so Thus is a Thetafuchsian function of order two ; other Thetafucbsian function of order two can be written in the form .
where is an automorphic function of the group , i.e. , ational function of the algebraic form .
If the algebraic form is of genus , it is known that fimction for which is holomorphic is a linear function of special functions .
These we can write , , . . .
The case is exceptional ; here there is one such function , , namely , constant .
*HuNBERT , ' Journal , ' ( 4 ) , vol. 2 , p. 239 , 1886 .
MR. E. T. ON THE CONNEXION OF In general , therefore , we have where , , . .
are functions which can be found , and . .
, are arbitrary constants .
We call now the form of the which all the nisiny r. Take any quasi-uniformising variable of the algebraic equation O. For it , we have , is some rational function of and is the llost general quasi-uniformising variable , we have seen that is given as the quotient of two solutions of the differential equation where Hence But , Therefore or .
Thus , the solution of the of finding all the , which will conrepresent the surface of given form on ) ilinear polygon , whose sides derived from each other in pairs by projective is given by differential equation containing arbitrary parameters linearly , and the problem of jinding the uniformising is to that of determining these meters in order that group generated by these substitutions be discontinuous .
Now let us return to the differential equation of S5 , which we can write If we take any set of values . . .
for the ) this equation will a variable in of , which will not in BRAIC FUNCTIONS WITH AUTOMORPHIC FUNCTfONS .
general be the variable of and 4 .
But the variables 7 so found will solve the oblem of confolmaIly representing the -plane , rded as bounded by number finite lines diating from a point , on a curvilinear polygon in the -plane , that the sides of the boundary can be transformed into each other in pairs by certain projective substitutions .
The variable is one of these variables , characterised by the condition that the infinite group generated from these substitutions is discontinuous group .
We , in the functions in this case .
We must have and must be such that is holonlorphic .
So only possible poles of the where is zero , i.e. , the places , . .
At these places is zero of the first order : so is of the second order , li ( z ) have pole of the second order .
efor where and I ( z ) is tegral function of .
At has a pole of the second order , and a pole the order .
So I ( z ) may have pole of the order .
Therefore Thus if is the quotient of two solutions of the equation and is defined by the equation , then is defined by the equation Comparing this with the equation of S 5 , we see that the by it , when the constants , . .
, are , are the iformising variables .
We can now that the number of conditions which have to be satisfied in ON BRAIC FUNCTIONS AND AUTOMORPHIC FUNCTIONS .
the group of substitutions of may be discontinuous , i. e. , in this case conserve a circle , is to the of the constants In order that a self-inverse lvith complex coefficients , may leave unchanged a given circle , two of the four real constants contained in the substitution must ) determinate in terms of the others .
Now there are fundamental self-inverse complex bstituti o containing 4 real constants ; of these , the relation accounts for six .
So real constants are determined in terms of the by the condition that the group is to conserve a fundamental circle ; but as the circle be any whatever , and so involves three constants , we must deduct three from the number of equations , giving .
Thus , real , or complex , constants can be determined from condition that the substitutions of conserve a fundamental circle .
This accords with the fact , otherwise constants , . .
, in the equation hcfve to be .
mined ?
this sideration .
Among the quasi-uniformising variables of any algebraic fornn there are several distinct ising variables .
The groups we have found in 3 have simply- connected fundamental ) olygons .
But automorphic functions exist , for which the fundamental polygons are multiply-connected .
The example of such a function is , where is Weierstrass ' elliptic function with periods and ; the fundamental polygon is the space between two circles in the -plane .
The automorphic functions studied by SCHOTTKY , WEBER , nd BURNSIDE may be tions of this .
As these uniformising variables with multiplyconnected polygons are included in the general set of quasi-uniformising variables , they are defined by the same differential equations as the uniformising variables with simply-connected polygons , except that the constants will have different values .

