Experiments and Observations on the Nezory Pitch-stone , and its Products , and on the Formation of Pumice .
By the Right Hon. George Knox , F.R.S. Read May 9 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 313 .
] After describing the geological locality and the external character of the above mineral , and adverting particularly to its oily smell , Mr. Knox proceeds to show , by its chemical analysis , that , exclusive of the constituents of this substance ascertained by Klaproth , it contains a considerable but variable proportion of a peculiar bitumen , separable from it by distillation at high temperatures .
The author also succeeded in detecting some volatile principle in the pitch-stone of Meisser , analysed by Klaproth , as also in that of Arran ; but it exists in them in smaller quantities than in the pitch-stone of Newry .
After having separated the water and bitumen from the mineral by heat , Mr. Knox found that by subjecting the residue to a bright red heat , it assumed not merely the appearance , but the properties of pumice ; and he attributes this appearance to the slow escape of the bituminous matter , producing a vesicular structure .
The author details in this paper the process of analysis which he employed for the separation of the constituent parts of this pitchstone , and adverts to those circumstances in which it appears to differ from the varieties of the mineral previously examined .
Observations on the Changes the Egg undergoes during Incubation in the common Fowl , illustrated by Microscopical Drawings .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R ; S. Read May 16 , 1822 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1822 , p. 339 .
] The molecule from which the future embryo is to be formed , is observed upon the surface of the yolk before it leaves the ovarium .
It consists of globules - , th of an inch in diameter , surrounded by a mixture of these and larger oval globules , similar to those of the bird 's blood , excepting their red colour ; some oil is also discoverable .
In the passage of the yolk along the oviduct , it acquires the albumen and its membrane ; in this passage also the thread-like sulistances , which Mr. Hunter called the poles , were formed .
Sir Everard next describes the changes which the egg undergoes during incubation .
In four hours the rudiments of the embryo are perceptible ; and in eight hours the brain and spinal marrow are surrounded by an amnion , all of which increase in distinctness for the first twenty-four hours .
In thirty-six hours the intervertebral nerves and the lobular structure of the brain , and in forty-four hours the eye and heart are seen , and in two days and twelve hours it contained red blood , and arterial ramifications began to be formed .
In three days the rudiments of the wings and legs were formed .
These parts progressively increase until the sixth day , when the amnion is filled with water , and shortly afterwards the parietes of the thorax begin to form , and muscular action becomes evident .
In seven days and twelve hours arterial pulsation was first perceived ; and in eight days and twelve hours the liver was seen .
In ten days and twelve hours the cutis was covered with cuticle , and the gizzard and intestinal canal were formed .
The above , as well as several intermediate changes , are illustrated by drawings , and the author concludes the paper with some observations upon the circumstances in which the changes observed during the incubation of the egg , differ from those which occur in the ovum of the quadruped .

