18/ 4 .
] On the Lymphatic System'of the Lunys 133 pill and other preparations of arsenic ; the hypodermic injection of liquor potass\#174 ; ; quinine , ipecacuanha , Aristolochia and a variety of other drugs , generally of a vegetable nature , and enjoying a large amount of popular confidence : all , when brought to the test of carefully conducted experiment , failed , as might have been expected , to give any favourable result .
It seems almost unnecessary to allude to the so called Snake-stones j they are powerless for good or evil .
They have also enjoyed much confidence ; but when submitted to the test of impartial experiment and observation , their virtues prove as unreal as those of the antidotes above mentioned .
" With reference to the mechanical methods of preventing the entry of the poison into the circulation after a bite , we think that the speedy application of an elastic cord ( such as is used in bloodless operations ) round the limb , combined with the application of cups attached to an exhausting-syringe or pump* * , might be of advantage , and that it might be made of general application in India .
January 29 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the Table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Contributions to the Normal and Pathological Anatomy of the Lymphatic System of the Lungs .
" By E. Klein , M.D. , Assistant Professor at the Laboratory of the Brown Institution , London .
Communicated by Professor J. B. Sanderson , F.R.S. Received November 13 , 1873 .
I propose to give in the following pages a summary of an investigation of the lymphatic system of the lungs , in the normal condition as well as in chronic secondary inflammation , undertaken in connexion with the pathological inquiries of Dr. Burdon Sanderson , for the Medical Department of the Privy Council .
The research will be published at length during the course of the next year , in continuation of my work On the Anatomy of the Lymphatic System/ of which the first part , " Serous Membranes , " has recently appeared .
The present communication is made with the approval of the medical officer of the Privy Council , Mr. Simon .
A. Normal conditions .
( a ) The endothelium of the surface of the lungs consists , in the normal ( animal , vegetable , and mineral ) that have been administered as antidotes .
Particulars may be found in the * Thanatophidia , ' where the details of experiments conducted for the investigation of their actions are recorded .
* Such an apparatus has now been constructed .
Dr. E. Klein on the Anatomy of [ Jan. 29 , condition , of polyhedral cells ( not flattened as commonly described ) arranged in a single layer .
This is well seen in guineapigs , less distinctly in rabbits , rats , dogs , and cats .
If the lung is not distended , the endothelium of the surface very much resembles an epithelium , the cells being polyhedral , or in the form of short columns ; they are markedly granular , and have distinct nuclei .
Even in the moderately distended lung , the endothelium of the pleura pulmonum is by no means of the same morphological character as that on the costal pleura .
Between the endothelium of the one and that of the other organ there exists the same difference as between that of the ovary and that of the peritoneum\#151 ; the one consisting of polyhedral , or shortly columnar , granular cells with very marked nuclei , the other of very flattened , almost hyaline , endothelial plates .
( 6 ) The pleura pulmonum is a very thin connective-tissue membrane , provided , like other serous membranes , with , a rich network of elastic fibres .
In the lungs of the rat , rabbit , cat , and dog the pleura pulmonum seems to consist , for the most part , of elastic networks .
In the matrix , there is generally one layer of flattened connective-tissue corpuscles to be Beneath the proper pleural membrane , there exists , in the gumeapig , a membrane which consists of non-striated muscular fibres , arranged in bundles which form a meshwork .
In the normal condition the bundles I are relatively thin , and the meshwork which they form has elongated large meshes In the distended lung the meshes are of a much greater diameter than in the collapsed lung ; in the latter they form a more continuous mem-brane .
The muscular bundles have , in general , a radiating direction from | the apex towards the basis of the lung ; and it is further to be noted that 1 they are most abundant on the external surface , viz. that directed towards the anterior wall of the chest , and the internal surface , viz. that directed towards the mediastinum ; whereas on the posterior surface the bundles are scanty , and become more and more so the nearer the vertebral column 1 is approached .
This distribution of the muscular tissue is therefore ml perfect agreement with the proportion in which the different parts of the lung participate in the respiratory movement , the fibres being most ] distributed over those parts of the pulmonary surface which are subject to the greatest extent of excursions , and vice versed .
In rats and rabbits , as we/ as in cats and dogs , bundles of unstriped muscular occm spa- rinfflv .
at any rate there are none on the posterior surface of the lung of Ihefe animals As soon as the superficial parts of the lung become the , , fa nhrrvnic inflammatory process ( e. g. tuberculosis , chrome pn i ^h^muscul^himdles^increase in breadth and number to such , tbev form a continuous membrane , chiefly m those parts o .
^Trt^wMchi^spond to the diseased portions of the lung .
XiSK I \#151 ; ic2g system of lymphatic sinuses .
1874 .
] the Lymphatic System of the Lungs .
135 I call this system of lymphatics the pleural lymphatics .
Tn the distended lung of the guineapig , these pleural lymphatic sinuses are seen to be covered by hardly any thing but the endothelium of the pleural cavity , between which and the cavities of those sinuses a free comm unication exists by means of true stomata ; so that the endothelium lining the sinuses is here directly continuous with that of the pleural surface .
In every case of chronic pleuritis induced by injecting irritating substances ( such as products of acute and chronic pysemic processes , products of indurated lymphatic glands ) , an active germination of the endothelium around those stomata takes place .
This germination extends not only to the endothelium of the neighbouring parts of the pleural surface , but also to the endothelium of the intermuscular lymphatic sinuses .
The relation between the cells of the membrana propria of the pleura pulmo-num and the endothelium of the surface is similar to that already described by me in other serous membranes , the cells of the propria throwing out processes , which project between the endothelial elements of the free surface , thus forming pseudostomata .
The pleural lymphatics stand in communication with lymphatic tubes , which lie in grooves , the arrangement of which corresponds with that of the most superficial groups of alveoli of the lung .
These may be called the lymphatics- , they are provided with valves , and form a network of anastomosing lymphatic vessels .
The larger trunks run along the ligamenta pulmonum towards the root of the lung .
This system of lymphatic vessels is best developed in the lung of the dog , in which it has been described by Wy wodzoff ; it is also well developed in the lungs of rabbits and cats .
It receives lymphatic branches , which take their origin between the alveoli of the superficial portions of the lung .
The mode of origin of these interalveolar lymphatics is that already described in my published work .
The septa of the alveoli contain branched connective-tissue corpuscles the spaces in which these cells lie , forming the lymphcanalicular system , open into the cavities of the interalveolar lymphatics , with the endothelium of which the cells of the lymphcanalicular system are in direct continuity .
2 .
Perivascular lymphatics.\#151 ; Besides the system of subpleural lymphatics , the lung contains two other systems ; of which one takes its origin in the alveolar septa from branched cells exactly like those previously referred to .
The lymphatic capillaries of this system lead into vessels that accompany the branches of the pulmonary artery and vein ; they run either in the adventitia of these vessels in twos or threes , anastomosing with each other , or the blood-vessel is entirely , or only half , invaginated in a lymphatic vessel .
The branched cells of the alveolar septa , from which the capillaries of this system of lymphatics ( which we will call the perivascular lymphatics ) originate , have an important relation to the epithelium of the alveoli ; for they send a process , or a greater or less portion of their body , between the epithelial cells into the cavities of the al\ eoli .
These represent pseudostomata , as described by myself for the serous Dr. E. Klein on the Anatomy of [ Jan. 29 , membranes .
As these branched cells have a corresponding lymphcanali-cular system , it is easy to understand why Sikorski , in his experiments , found that carmine entered freely from the cavities of the alveoli into the interalveolar lymphatics .
But there is no other communication between the cavities of the alveoli and the lymphatics than by means of these pseudostomata .
It can be easily understood that the pseudostomatous canals ( viz. the canal in which lies the process of a cell projecting freely into the cavity of an alveolus , and the lymphcanalicular system , in which the interalveolar branched cells lie ) may become occasionally distended , g. in inflammation , by exudation , or by migratory cells .
In fact , it must be assumed that cells , such as are produced by catarrhal inflammation of the air-passages , migrate from the cavities of the alveoli into the interalveolar lymphcanalicular system through those pseudostomata ; and the same assumption must be made for the well-known large granular mucous corpuscles , in many lungs , containing carbon particles^ inasmuch as similar cells are found in the interalveolar tissue .
3 .
Peribronchial lymphatics.\#151 ; The third system of lymphatics is composed of lymphatic vessels which are chiefly distributed in the adventitia of the bronchi .
I shall therefore call it the system of peribronchial lymphatics .
The vessels of this system are usually distributed around the bronchi , anastomosing with dach other , and especially with the perivascular lymphatics .
The vessels of the peribronchial system take up capillaries , which originate in the mucous membrane of the bronchi and penetrate through the tunica muscularis of the bronchi .
These eapillary branches originate in the usual way ; i.e. their wall is continuous with the branched cells of the mucosa , which cells in turn penetrate , as a nucleated reticulum , between the epithelial cells of the bronchus , and project on its free surface .
From this it may be understood how particles can penetrate from the cavity of a bronchus into the peribronchial lymphatics , as in the experiments of Sikorski .
The lymphatics are always most numerous on that side of a bronchus which is directed towards a branch of the pulmonary artery .
In the course of each bronchus , especially those that possess only a thin muscular tunic and no trace of cartilage , there are generally several vasculated lymph-follicles to be met with , which are placed in continuity with the endothelial wall of a lymphatic vessel , in such a manner that they are surrounded by that lymphatic vessel , in the same way as the lymph-follicles of Peyer 's patches are by their lymph-sinuses .
These follicles , already seen by Dr. Burdon Sanderson , extend up to the tunica muscularis ; in some instances they are to be traced through this latter into the mucosa .
They always lie in the wall of a lymphatic vessel , between the bronchus and the accompanying branch of the pulmonary artery.'* ' They are of different sizes , and are generally spherical or elliptical ; sometimes they represent merely a cord-like thickening of the wall of the lymp a c vessel .
In the lung of the guineapig these perilymphangial follicles are very numerous ; they are not so numerous in rabbits .
It can be prov t a ]874 .
] the Lymphatic System of the Lungs .
a constant growth and reproduction of these follicles is going on .
The lymphatic vessels of the two last-mentioned systems anastomose with each other in the ligaments of the lung , and finally enter the bronchial lymphatic glands .
B. Pathological conditions .
I have already mentioned the germination of the endothelium of the surface , and the hypertrophy of the muscles , in chronic diseases of the lung .
In many chronic inflammatory processes of the lung ( chronic pyaemia , artificial tuberculosis , chronic pneumonia ) the pleura pulmonum becomes the seat of nodules of various sizes and shapes .
Generally they are more or less round , and correspond in position to those superficial portions of the lung which have become the seat of an inflammatory process , ihese nodules of the pleura are due to a very rapid proliferation of the branched connective-tissue corpuscles , simultaneously with an increase of fibrous connective tissue , this latter fact being very obvious when the nodules have reached a certain age .
As long as they are small , they show merely an abundance of cellular elements ; in their later stages they become richly supplied with capillary blood-vessels .
Lungs of guineapigs that are far advanced in the process of artificial tuberculosis ( i. c. where the bronchial glands have already become the seat of cheesy deposits ) show superficial nodules , which are in direct continuity with the subpleural lymphatics .
In horizontal sections through such portions of the lung , one finds these lymphatics filled with lymph-corpuscles , while at a later period they are occupied by an adenoid reticulum , the meshes of which contain lymph-corpuscles , and which is m direct continuity with the endothelium of the lymphatic tubes .
The nodules themselves represent a network of cords , which very much resembles adenoid tissue .
The meshes of this network of trabeculae are the alveoli , which , at an early period , contain a few lymphoid corpuscles , while the epithelium is , at the same time , in a state of germination , the individual cells being swollen and the nucleus in a state of division .
At a later period the alveoli are filled with small lymphoid corpuscles , while the epithelium of the alveoli is no longer to be distinguished as such .
The blood-capillaries belonging to these alveoli have undergone some remarkable changes , of which I shall speak at length afterwards ; at present I will only mention that at a later period they are no longer permeable for the blood .
These interalveolar trabeculae of adenoid tissue , forming the fra mew or v of the superficial nodules , are developed from the branched connective-tissue corpuscles of the alveolar septa .
The same process exten s o subpleural-lymphatics , originating from these interalveolar connective-tissue corpuscles , in such a way that these lymphatics ecorne con verted into cords of adenoid tissue connected with their endothelium .
Consequently these lymphatics become converted mto endolymphangia cords .
138 Dr. E. Klein on the Anatomy of [ Jan. 29 , If one examines the lungs of a guineapig which is so far advanced in the process of artificial tuberculosis that the bronchial glands contain cheesy deposits , one can distinguish with the naked eye two kinds of morbid structure on the surface of the lungs:\#151 ; ( ?
) Translucent structures of a circular or irregular shape , sometimes projecting slightly above the surface , generally isolated , but in some instances confluent , so as to form patches .
The smallest are of the size of the head of a small pin ; some of them are three , four , or several times as large .
In some lungs only the large structures are to be found ; the larger kind have generally a yellowish centre .
( ?
) Opaque patches of considerable diameter projecting above the surface of the lung , some of them relatively very large ( about \#163 ; to ^ of an inch ) , quite white , and very firm .
On sections through the lung one finds that the first kind of structures correspond with cords provided with lateral nodular swellings , which accompany the branches of the pulmonary artery and vein .
The second kind of structures correspond with nodules and patches which are irregularly distributed in the tissue of the lung .
On microscopical examination it is seen that the first kind of structures are perivascular cords of adenoid tissue , representing the follicular tissue which is found in the walls of the peribronchial lymphatics in the normal condition .
Many of these perivascular cords or nodules are supplied with a system of capillary blood-vessels .
The second kind of nodules , dr patches , are seen to consist , on microscopical examination , of a framework of trabeculae which corresponds to the interalveolar tissue ; they represent trabeculae of adenoid tissue which are in continuity with the perivascular cords first mentioned .
The meshes of this network are more or less filled out by cells lying in the spaces that were previously the cavities of the alveoli .
The question arises , How do these two kinds of morbid structures develop , and what is their ultimate fate ?
If one studies sections of lungs that possess very few of the first kind of cords and nodules , one comes across a number of the lymphatic vessels that accompany the branches of the pulmonary artery , containing more or less numerous lymph-corpuscles .
In addition to those just mentioned , one is able to find lymphatic vessels , the endothelium of which is in continuity with a thin short cord of adenoid tissue that stretches along the outer wall of the lymphatic , or ( as may be seen in some places ) projects into its cavity , thus connecting the two endothelial"walls of the lymphatic ; in other words , we have here a peri- as well as an endolymphangial growth of adenoid tissue , connected with the endothelium of the lymphatic .
From what I have shown in the case of the serous membranes , there can be little doubt that the above-mentioned tuberculous cords of adenoid tissue accompanying the blood-vessels are in reality only peri- or endolymphangial outgrowths of the endothelium o the lymphatics .
It is important to state that , at the same tune , the follicles of the bronchial adventitia increase in size , and also that a penlym1874 .
] the Lymphatic System of the Lungs .
phangial new growth takes place on the peribronchial lymphatics .
From the study of the normal lung , it can be ascertained that not all the large branches of blood-vessels are accompanied by lymphatics , and not even one and the same branch for its whole length , but that in some places they are only surrounded by branched connective-tissue corpuscles , which may be said to belong to their adventitia .
In a given case , one will not be able to determine whether a certain tubercular cord has developed by the increase of these adventitial cells , or whether it has developed from the endothelium of a lymphatic , either as a peri- or endolymphangial cord ; for the fully developed cords have quite the same relation to the bloodvessels as if they had developed in their adventitia .
I have already mentioned that the growth of adenoid tissue in the branches of the subpleural lymphatics extends to the connective-tissue corpuscles between the alveoli .
Exactly in the same way we see the perivascular adenoid cords spreading between the alveoli ; that is to say , the perilymphangial growth of tracts of adenoid tissue extends from the lymphatics to the interalveolar branched cells , with which the endothelium of the former is in direct continuity .
The first points at which the tubercular perivascular cords of adenoid tissue make their appearance are the ultimate branches of the pulmonary artery and vein , whence they spread along the lymphatics towards the larger branches , as well as towards the interalveolar branched cells .
In general the growth in the first direction ( that is , towards the larger branches ) goes on much more abundantly and rapidly than in the other direction .
It is an important fact that I have constantly met with the following condition of the tuberculous lungs of guineapigs :\#151 ; The ultimate branches of the pulmonary artery show a germination of their endothelium , which is already recognizable in the earlier stages of the disease , at a time when perivascular cords are only rarely to be found .
If the process advances , the germination of that endothelium reaches such a degree that the cavities of the blood-vessels are almost filled with its products , only a very narrow central canal being left free .
In later stages , the tunica media of the smaller and middle-sized vessels , that are provided with perivascular cords , becomes very much thickened , and splits into laminae , between which lie accumulated lymphoid cells , either free or contained in a reticulum .
In many places it can be shown that the adenoid tissue of the perivascular cords gradually grows towards the cavities of the vessels , and finally assumes the whole portion of the vessel into its substance .
The chief fact of importance , however , is that the capillary blood-vessels of those interalveolar trabeculae , into which the perivascular cords have penetrated , have become converted into solid nucleated bands and threads , which are in continuity with the surrounding reticulum .
These threads , although they appear solid , must be taken as still permeable by fluid substances ; for in lungs the pulmonary artery of which had been previously injected with a cold 140 Dr. E. Klein on the Anatomy of [ Jan. 29 , solution of Berlin blue , the cavity of many of the capillaries in the neighbourhood of those interalveolar trabeculae stops short , but the injecting material can be traced into the nucleated filaments which enter those trabeculae .
From the study of a great number of specimens , taken from lungs in different stages of the process of artificial tuberculosis , I have reason to believe that the first parts which undergo inflammatory changes are the ultimate branches of the pulmonary artery and the capillaries next to them , and that the morbid process extends from them to the corresponding lymphatics .
I have already mentioned that , where the alveolar septa become thickened , the epithelium of the alveoli becomes gradually changed , so as completely to fill the cavities of the alveoli .
By this means nodular or patch-like structures are formed , which may be called secondary patches .
It may be said , in general , that the epithelial cells proliferate : they enlarge ; their nuclei divide ; and then the cells themselves divide .
In many alveoli there appear , besides isolated epithelial cells , with or without carbon particles in their substance , numerous small lymphoid corpuscles .
In some of the alveoli the enlarged epithelial cells become fused together to one large mass of granular protoplasm , which contains a number of nuclei in its periphery ; this represents , in the true sense of the term , a " giant cell .
" We may therefore say that , at an early period , these patches consist of trabeculae , which represent the thickened interalveolar septa and their meshes ( the alveoli ) , and that the latter are filled either with small cells or with giant cells , or rather with multinuclear protoplasmic cylindrical masses .
These secondary patches gradually increase in size , by the extension of the adenoid metamorphosis of the alveolar septa and the changes of the capillary blood-vessels , indicated above .
A perivascular cord may become furnished with a number of lateral nodules of adenoid tissue from the assumption , by adenoid interalveolar cords , of the contents of alveolar cavities into their own tissue .
Where , however , the alveolar cavities contain giant cells , other remarkable changes take place .
These are as follows The cylinders of multinuclear protoplasm grow and divide into a number of giant cells , which gradually become converted into a tissue to a certain extent resembling adenoid tissue , but differing from it in many respects .
Thus the giant cells give origin to a more or less regular network of nucleated cells , which , consisting at first of granular substance , soon assume the appearance of a more or less distinct fibrillar substance ; in their meshes lie only a limited number of lymphoid cells .
This tissue spreads very rapidly , and finally undergoes , from the centre outwards , a fibrous degeneration , which becomes the seat of cheesy deposits .
Different lungs are somewhat different in this latter respect .
In some cases the transformation of the giant cells into a network of nucleated cells goes on very rapi dly ; and then the cheesy metamorphosis is also soon established .
In other cases the growth of the network of nucleated cells 1874 .
] the Lymphatic System of the Lungs .
has a very long duration , and consequently the growth of the secondary patches remains active for a long time .
The network of nucleated cells is , at no period of its development , such a delicate reticulum as in the adenoid tissue , nor does it contain lymphoid corpuscles so regularly as this latter .
Moreover the adenoid tissue of the perivascular cords or their lateral nodules never becomes the seat of fibrous or cheesy metamorphosis .
The more the lung has advanced in the process of artificial tuberculosis , the more do we find the tissue of the lung , in the neighbourhood of the primary and secondary nodules , undergoing inflammatory changes\#151 ; consisting in thickening of the alveolar septa , and in a granular condition of the walls of their capillary blood-vessels , the nuclei of which are in active proliferation , their number being out of proportion large .
In the peripheral parts of the lung the most numerous secondary nodules are to be met with ; and consequently the most numerous cheesy deposits are here to be found .
I have often seen a system of large patches projecting somewhat above the surface and radiating towards the deeper parts , as the terminal branches of a minute bronchus pass towards the stem .
The secondary process extends from the terminal branches ( alveoli and infundibula ) to the large bronchi .
In these the process becomes very marked , and consists of the following changes:\#151 ; ( ?
) The epithelium proliferates very abundantly , whereby the cavity may finally become almost completely plugged up by the progeny of the epithelium .
( ?
) A more important change consists in the proliferation ot the tissue that we have designated above as pseudostomata , namely the branched cells of the tunica mucosa that extend between the epithelial cells to the surface , this tissue grows so as to form a very rich adenoid tissue .
At the same time there goes on an active growth of adenoid tissue in the walls of the peribronchial lymphatics ; that is to say , there is a hyperplasia ( Sanderson ) of the preexisting follicles , as well as a new formation .
[ The most active transformation of the pseudostomatous tissue of the bronchi into adenoid tissue I have met with was in rabbits suffering from chronic pyaemia ; it has been already stated that the reticulum of branched cells which stretches between the epithelial cells of the surface is better developed in rabbits than in guineapigs , in the normal condition .
] ( c ) In the large bronchi , which have become involved in the secondary process , another noteworthy change takes place , viz. the fusion of gioups of the proliferating epithelial cells , not only those of the free surface , but also those of the mucous glands , so as to form multinuclear protoplasmic cylinders and lumps ( giant cells ) .
The secondary process , viz. that which affects the alveoli and bronchi , and which may be justly called the catarrhal pneumonic process , always accompanies artificial tuberculosis when it has extended to t 142 Dr. E. Klein on the Anatomy of [ Jan. 29 interalveolar tissue ; in the early stages of artificial tuberculosis , 'perivascular lymphangial cords are to he met If the infection has been established from the pleural cavity , the germination of the endothelium of the surface round the stomata , and the transformation of the subpleural lymphatics into cords of adenoid tissue , is the first symptom , and is followed by the appearance of perivascular adenoid cords .
If , however , the lung becomes tuberculous by infection from the blood-vessels , the peritoneal cavity or the subcutaneous tissue , the perivascular adenoid cords are the first structures that make their appearance .
In lungs which have become the seat of chronic pyaemia , the first changes are to be found in the alveolar septa and alveoli , viz. the formation of patches and nodules similar to those that I have designated before as secondary ; and if the process lasts long enough , those changes take place that I have designated before as primary tuberculous changes .
The opinion has been expressed ( by Sanderson and Wilson Fox ) that the process of artificial tuberculosis in the lungs of guineapigs resembles , in its anatomical features , the tuberculous process in man .
I will therefore examine the process that is clinically and anatomically known as miliary tuberculosis in man .
For this purpose I shall describe the changes that I found in three series of cases of miliary tuberculosis in children , representing , as we shall see , three different stages of development .
In the first series the lungs exhibited all the anatomical appearances of acute miliary tuberculosis .
On microscopical examination it was found that the nodules were due to groups of alveoli ( with the corresponding infundibula ) being filled with and distended by a fibrinous material that contained granules and a few small cells ; generally these latter occupied the centre of the alveoli .
The walls of the alveoli were hardly distinguishable ; and the capillary vessels were not permeable , as shown by the fact that , in well-injected preparations , the injection did not penetrate into the capillaries of the alveolar septa .
The alveoli next to these nodules contained the same fibrinous material ; but they were not filled up by it completely ; and their epithelium could be distinctly recognized , having become wholly or partially detached , the individual cells being somewhat enlarged , and some of them containing two nuclei .
Here the injection material penetrated the capillary blood-vessels more or less perfectly : the alveoli of the neighbouring parts contained either a small amount of fibrinous material , besides isolated young cells , or a homogeneous gelatinous substance that had become stained with hematoxylin .
The epithelium was very distinct , its cells granular .
In some of the alveoli the epithelial membrane was more or less detached from the alveolar septa ; the capillary blood-vessels were perfectly permeable .
In the second series of cases of miliary tuberculosis , in which the lungs did not differ in macroscopical appearance from those of the first series , u in which the process had lasted longer , the microscopical appearance .
^ 1874 .
] the Lymphatic System of the .
143 somewhat different .
The nodules were seen to differ in their structure from those in the former series in the following respects .
In some of them it was easy to recognize that they represented a number of alveoli very much distended by a fibrinous substance similar to that described above , which included granular material and a number of small cellular elements ; the trabeculae of these nodules ( that is , the interalveolar tissue ) were slightly thickened and contained young cells , their capillary blood-vessels being not completely permeable and not easily distinguishable .
Besides these there were nodules of which only the central alveoli were in the state just mentioned ; whereas in those situated more peripherally the fibrinous material was no longer to be discovered , but they were filled in one or other of the following ways :\#151 ; first , by spherical nucleated elements , many of which could be still recognized as epithelial cells , by their size , granulation , and nucleus,1'and some of which contained two nuclei .
In these places , the interalveolar trabeculae were thickened in a very marked manner , exhibiting all the appearances of an infiltrated tissue\#151 ; that is to say , a more or less distinct reticulum of nucleated fibres , in the meshes of which lay small lymphoid corpuscles very readily stained by logwood or carmine .
Or , secondly , they were filled by one large multinucleated mass or giant cell .
In the latter case the giant cell , or rather the multinuclear protoplasmic cylinder , contained the nuclei either regularly distributed in its periphery , or all crowded together in the central part of the mass .
As regards the nuclei , it may be said that they stain readily ; they are relatively small , sharply outlined , and contain one or two nucleoli .
The protoplasm of the giant cell is tinted slightly yellowish , does not stain in hsematoxylin , and is very regularly filled with small granules of equal size .
As regards the development of these giant cells and their nuclei , I must first contradict those authors who say that they originate generally by a free-cell formation in the veins , as well as those who make them originate in lymphatic vessels ; for I have followed their development from the epithelial cells of the alveoli with all possible certainty .
I have been able to make out that the whole epithelial lining of an alveolus becomes fused together into one protoplasmic lump which fills out the alveolar cavity , and the nuclei of which rapidly divide , remaining , however , in their original places , viz. peripheral .
We have here a protoplasmic cylinder the transverse section of which shows a peripheral ring of nuclei .
But a single epithelial cell may also become transformed into a multinuclear giant cell : one or the other epithelial cell increases rapidly in size ( probably at the expense of its fellows ) ; its protoplasm becomes enlarged as well as its nucleus ; then this nucleus gives rise by cleavage , or by budding , to a number of small nuclei , so that it is transformed into a number of nuclei lying in the middle of the cell .
[ I have little doubt that Klebs would be much inclined to regard the very regular granulation of the giant cells previously mentioned , as being due to the presence of micrococci ; such an assumption , however , could not easily be proved .
A substance filled very regularly ]44 On the Lymphatic System of the Lungs .
[ Jan. 29 with granules is said to be filled with micrococci .
Against that view , however , it can be maintained , first , that there are a number of normal tissues that appear after hardening to be just as regularly filled with granules ( e. g. the liver-cells of any liver hardened in spirit ) , and , secondly , that the resistance of these granules to acids and alkalies after hardening does not prove them to be micrococci .
] Where the alveoli contain giant cells , the alveolar septa are very much thickened , and are seen to consist of a tissue that contains branched and spindle-shaped cells , the substance of which has more or less the appearance of a fibrous tissue , their processes as well as their body being slightly fibrillar .
Between these there are very few lymphoid corpuscles to be found .
In a third series of lungs , which also in maeroscopical aspect did not differ from the former ones , it is seen that almost all the nodules contain giant cells , corresponding to the alveolar spaces .
These , however , have undergone changes which are correctly described by Schiippel and others ; viz. the giant cells give origin to a network of branched nucleated cells , as well as to a few spherical nucleated elements that lie in its meshes .
This network grows at the expense of the giant cell , which undergoes proliferation at the same time .
We have here what is generally called a reticular tubercle .
From one giant cell a number of giant cells may take their origin .
The nearer to the centre of a nodule the giant cell lies , the more extensively and quickly does a transformation of its substance take place .
It becomes converted into a very dense feltwork of fibrillar tissue , the nuclei of which gradually disappear , while the tissue itself dies away , becoming firm and hard , and finally resembling a granular substance , in which fibrils can be made out very indistinctly .
While the network of the nucleated cells continues to grow at the expense of the giant cells , the process of necrosis spreads gradually to the peripheral parts .
In this stage of the process the thickened interalveolar trabeculae become also assumed into , and identified with , the tissue that originated from the giant cells .
In the neighbourhood of the nodules there are very numerous places where the interalveolar trabeculae are thickened and contain numerous young cells , the epithelium of the corresponding alveoli being , at the same time , in a state of proliferation .
In general the tubercular nodules of both these latter series have the common character that the peripheral zone of the tubercular nodule is a regular adenoid tissue , being composed of a delicate reticulum which includes small lymphoid corpuscules ; this adenoid tissue is in continuity with the tissue of the interalveolar trabeculae above mentioned .
In these stages of the tuberculous process , we find numerous branches of large blood-vessels , in the immediate neighbourhood of the nodules , provided with the same perivascular cords of adenoid tissue as have been described in the tuberculous lung of the guineapig .
1874 .
] On the Comparative Value of certain Geological Ages .
145 Finally , it may be mentioned that these nodules also grow in circumference , by the alveolar septa of the neighbouring alveoli gradually becoming thickened , while , at the same time , the epithelium of the corresponding alveoli undergoes the changes before described .
The capillary vessels of these parts show the same changes as were mentioned in the case of the guineapig 's lung\#151 ; being transformed gradually into nucleated fibres , which must be supposed to be , for a certain time , still permeable by coloured fluids .
If we summarize the results thus described , it is evident that the changes in the process of miliary tuberculosis in man are only to a limited extent similar to those which occurr in the process of artificial tuberculosis in guineapigs .
In the lung of tuberculized guineapigs the first structural changes are characterized , briefly speaking , by the appearance of perivascular lymphangial nodules , whereas the changes of the interalveolar tissue and the alveolar epithelium form only a secondary process .
In miliary tuberculosis of man , on the other hand , we see that the first changes take place in the alveoli and interalveolar septa , and these changes are followed by the appearance of perivascular cords .
It is therefore probable that , in artificial tuberculosis of the lung of the guineapig , the parts first attacked are the small branches of the pulmonary artery or pulmonary vein , whereas in the miliary tuberculosis of man the capillary blood-vessels of the alveoli seem to be the tissue from which the action of the morbid agent starts .
II .
" On the Comparative Value of certain Geological Ages ( or groups of formations ) considered as items of Geological Time .
" By A. C. Ramsay , LL. D. , V.P.R.S. Received December 16 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The author first reviews briefly several methods by which attempts have been made to estimate the value of minor portions of geological time , such as:\#151 ; calculations intended to estimate the age of deltas , founded on the annual rate of accumulation of sediments ; the astronomical method followed by Mr. Croll , in connexion with the recurrence of glacial epochs ; the relative thicknesses of different formations ; and the relation of strong unconformity between two sets of formations in connexion with marked disappearance of old genera and species , and the appearance of newer forms .
Having shown that none of these methods give any clear help in the absolute measurement of time in years or cycles of years , even when founded on well-established facts , he proceeds to attempt to estimate the comparative value of long portions of geological time , all of which are represented by important series of formations . .

