XIX .
'"On the Sulphur-Compounds in Purified Coal-Gas , and on Crystallized Hydrosulphocarbonate of Lime .
" By the Rev. W. R. BOWDITCIH , B.A. , F.C.S. , Wakefield .
Communicated by Professor WILLIAM THOMSON , M.A. Received June 14 , 1862 .
The following facts relative to sulphur in what is called purified coal-gas , are additional to those already submitted to the Royal Society .
When I first made known the action of heated lime upon coal-gas , chemists accounted for the phenomena observed by two assumptions : -I .
That the sulphur-compound decomposed was free bisulphide of carbon .
II .
That the decomposition was due to a reaction between water and bisulphide according to the following equation CS2 + 2HO =2HS + CO2 .
It was easy to show that these assumptions were erroneous , but exceedingly difficult to demonstrate the truth .
That the sulphur in gas does not usually exist as free bisulphide of carbon is proved thus .
Gas which has been purified at the gas-works by lime , and which contains 20 or 30 grains of sulphur in 100 cubic feet , may be passed for a considerable time through a tube containing cold slaked lime without producing discoloration ; but if the same gas be charged with a minute quantity of bisulphide-of-carbon vapour and passed through the same lime-tube , the lime becomes yellow and green from decomposition of the bisulphide of carbon .
If instead of passing the gas through lime it be passed through triethylphosphine , the beautiful red crystals which this base gives with bisulphide of carbon are not formed ; but if the base be dissolved in alcohol or ether , and the gas passed through this solution , the red crystals are formed , as Dr. Hofinann first proved .
The alcohol or ether dissolves out the bisulphide of carbon from the hydrocarbon compounds of which it forms a part ; and when it is thus dissolved it reacts with triethylphosphine .
Naphthalin , benzole , and other fluid hydrocarbons condensed from purified gas yield sulphide of hydrogen and other sulphuretted compounds by simple distillation , yet these do not produce the wellknown red crystals with triethylphosphine .
They may , moreover , be digested for weeks in an alkaline solution of oxide of lead without producing any sulphide of lead .
Under similar treatment bisulphide of carbon yields hydrosulphocarbonate and sulphide of lead in a few hours .
If the sulphuretted fluid hydrocarbons condensed from gas be mixed with ammoniacal alcohol and heated , and an alcoholic solution of acetate of lead be then added , a black precipitate is formed after some time , which evolves sulphide of hydrogen upon addition of an acid .
In this case neither hydrosulphocarbonate nor hydro sulphocyanide of ammonia is formed ; yet it is well known that both are formed when bisulphide of carbon is added to ammoniacal alcohol .
The erroneous view of the action of heated hydrate of lime upon the sulphur-compounds in gas arose , I think , from the generally received opinion that the blackening of lead-salts by a gas is a proof that that gas is sulphide of hydrogen-joined to the fact that sulphide of hydrogen is one of the compounds produced by the action of the heated lime .
If the sulphide of hydrogen had been separated from the mixture of gaseous compounds produced , the truth would have been apparent ; but as , I believe , all experimenters have failed to separate them , the subject was obscure .
After having failed in many processes devised by myself and suggested by others , I at last removed the sulphide of hydrogen , and showed that the blackening of leadsalts is no proof of the presence of sulphide of hydrogen .
Ordinary purified gas was passed over heated hydrate of lime , then through a considerable quantity of well-washed hydrated peroxide of iron , over lead-paper , and subsequently through moist slaked lime .
The peroxide of iron was slightly blackened , and withdrew every trace of sulphide of hydrogen : the lead-paper became black , and the slaked lime yellow .
This yellow lime gave a primrose-coloured solution with water , which precipitated leadand silver-salts brownish red , thus showing the presence of impure hydrosulphocarbonate of lime .
To be certain of the absence of sulphide of hydrogen , some of the yellow lime was treated with hydrochloric acid , and the gases evolved thereby were conducted into a solution of potash .
The potash solution gave no reaction with nitroprusside of sodium , showing the absence of sulphide of hydrogen , and when boiled with nitric acid gave no precipitate with a salt of baryta .
The hydrochloric solution of the lime contained a sulphur-salt , which was obtained as sulphate of lime when nitric acid was added and the whole was boiled .
The blackening of the lead-paper in this case could not be due to sulphide of hydrogen , as that compound was absent .
Nor I think is it due to the hydrosulphocarbonic acid which passed over , and in contact with , the lead-paper , and was arrested by the lime .
The red compound which this acid produces with lead-salts is said to turn black rapidly ; and the red compound produced by a lead salt , and those of Berzelius and Zeise , undoubtedly does so blacken , as also does that produced by a salt of lead and an alkaline pentasulphide .
I have , however , obtained a red lead-salt by the reaction of crystallized hydrosulphocarbonate of lime and basic acetate of lead , which remains red after drying in the air at ordinary temperatures and exposure for weeks to the free atmosphere .
I therefore conclude that the blackening of the lead-paper in the above case was not due to hydrosulphocarbonic acid , but to some unknown or unsuspected compound .
In order to understand this matter fully , I commenced some investigations into the reactions of bisulphide of carbon with metallic oxides and other compounds , a portion of which I have now the pleasure of submitting .
Red Crystallized Lime^Salt.-Slaked lime and bisulphide of carbon are mixed in a close vessel , and allowed to stand for three or four days .
The lime at first becomes of a pale primrose-colour , which gradually deepens to a fine lemon-yellow .
Water added to the yellow lime gives a solution of a gold-colour , which precipitates salts of lead and silver reddish brown , and salts of mercury brown .
These precipitates become black upon standing a short time .
If the yellow solution be allowed to remain for a few days in contact with the lime , crystals are formed which will be very small , and so distributed through the lime as merely to give it a fine salmon-colour .
This lime-salt is of a bright ruby colour , and by the following process it may be obtained in beautiful crystals .
Freshly slaked lime is to be mixed with so much water that , when stirred , it will aggregate into small lumps about the size of peas .
These lumps are dried upon a sand-bath till they are hard , and will bear handling without producing powder .
The lumps ( quite free from dust ) are placed in tubes not more than an inch in diameter .
When the lime is cold , bisulphide of carbon is poured upon it in sufficient quantity to saturate the lime , and leave a few drops in each tube .
The tubes are corked , and allowed to stand for three or four days .
Water is then poured in carefully , so as riot to remove any powder from the lumps of lime , and the tubes are closed and allowed to stand as long as the crystals increase in size .
To obtain the crystals , the mother-liquor is poured off , the mass of lime , &amp;c. is dried at ordinary temperatures , and the crystals are picked out .
For success , it is absolutely necessary that the lime should be in lumps , the vessel in which the reaction takes place of small diameter , and that undecomposed bisulphide of carbon be present .
Crystals so prepared appear to be perfectly permanent ; they do not undergo alteration from several weeks ' exposure to atmospheric changes .
I have not yet obtained them free from adhering lime , as all acids which will dissolve the lime decompose the crystals .
They are soluble in water , but cannot be recrystallized from their solution .
All the solutions I have yet tried decomposed without crystallizing .
Other processes have equally failed to furnish a salt which can be obtained dry and pure ; and I am therefore unable at present to furnish reliable concurrent analyses which will establish its formula .
I have not ventured an explanation of the reaction , because I am not yet acquainted with the compounds produced and their relative proportion .
To ascertain whether an explanation based upon a reaction between the elements of water and bisulphide of carbon was tenable , I caused caustic lime to be heated to whiteness in a platinum crucible for two hours , and cooled out of contact with air .
When cold , this anhydrous lime was saturated with dry bisulphide of carbon ; and in a short time the lime became of a greenish-yellow colour , showing the progress of a reaction between the dry lime and the bisulphide of carbon .
Some of the reactions of this salt are remarkable ; and more than one will exhibit the liability to error from the use of any but the most perfectly crystalline , dry , and clean specimens .
Baryta-water added in excess throws down from an aqueous solution of the pure salt an amorphous , red , insoluble precipitate quite as brilliant in colour as vermilion .
If this be washed directly after precipitation , the colour is retained for a considerable period ; but if left in the mother-liquor , it soon darkens .
The washed salt dries a brickdust red .
If , instead of the perfectly pure lime-salt , a solution of the salmoncoloured compound , which is formed when the salt is prepared in large vessels and with powdery lime , be taken , a brownish-yellow crystalline double salt of baryta and lime is formed , which is very soluble in water .
Nitrate of baryta gives lemon-yellow crystals in a red-brown motherliquor with solution of the salmon-coloured mass , but an amorphous dirty grey precipitate in a yellowish mother-liquor with solution of the pure salt .
1862 .
] 189 As soon as a quantity of the latter can be prepared , I hope to isolate the acid .
Salts of the oxides of barium , magnesium , strontium , silver , zinc , manganese , and chromium have been prepared by the direct action of bisulphide of carbon .
Some of these differ considerably from the salts prepared by Berzelius by the action of the bisulphide of carbon upon the sulphides of the metals .
The process which furnishes the lime-salt well crystallized will be tried with other compounds , and the results submitted to the Society .
A very offensive suffocating gas is evolved during the decomposition of bisulphide of carbon by lime , which is injurious , if not poisonous ; and having suffered severely from breathing this and other noxious compounds derived from the same source , I think it right to call attention to it .
I have formed a gas of similar properties by passing bisulphide of carbon and hydrogen together through heated lime , and should not be surprised if it prove to be the long-sought simple sulphide of carbon .
Slightly ammoniacal alcohol breathed from a cloth appears to be the best restorative for the severe depression caused by respiring the offensive gases and vapours above named .

