7 .
" An Experimental Inquiry into the strength of Wrought Iron Plates and riveted Joints as applied to Ship-building .
" By William Fairbairn , Esq. , F.R.S. The object of the author was to determine by direct experiment the strength and value of rolled iron plates and bars of different forms in reference to their application to ship-building , and the construction of other vessels exposed to severe strain .
The experiments described in this paper were conducted with great care , and the irons used were purposely selected from those districts where the largest quantities were manufactured .
The relative strengths of each kind , as also the deductions , are given in the order in which the experiments were made .
The author found the tensile strength of plates , when torn asunder in the direction of the fibre , and when torn asunder across the fibre , as nearly as possible the same .
This fact is derived from twenty distinct experiments , and he attributes this equality to the improved method of manufacture which of late years has been introduced .
This new system is described as rendering the plate more uniform by crossing the layers in the process of'piling , ' thus forming an alternate series of laminae , whose fibres cross each other in the body of the plate , Having ascertained the comparative value of the different manufactures of plate-iron , the author , by another class of experiments , investigated the different methods in use ofjoining the plates together by rivets .
This appears to be an important section of the inquiry , as the relative strength of each description of joint within reach of the experiments is clearly ascertained , and theirSrelative values of strength determined in reference to each other , and to the plates themselves .
These were found after a careful investigation to be nearly as the numbers 100 , 70 and 56 ; that is to say , the plate being taken at 100 , the double-riveted joint was 70 , and the single-riveted joint 56 .
The resisting powers of plates , and the different kind of joints by which they are united , having been proved , the paper goes on to investigate the value of the different kinds of timber when applied to a similar purpose , and by a careful comparison of the results , it is ascertained that the tensile powers of each , compared with iron , amber representing unity , are in the following ratio , viz. Ash as ... .
1 : 294 Teak as ... .
1 : 333 Fir ( good ) as 1 : 4-16 Beech as. .
1 : 434 Oak as ... .
1 : 5'00 From the above it is inferred by the author , that iron being five times stronger than oak , a vessel built of that material is neither so strong , nor yet so secure , as the iron ship .
The next subject of inquiry is the transverse strength of angleiron , T-iron and other sectional forms which enter into the construction of the beams , frames and ribs of ships .
These coinbinations were likewise put to the test of experiment .
In this part of the inquiry it was soon ascertained that bars of angle-iron used for that purpose are not of the best form , but exhibited great weakness when compared with wrought-iron beams of the I form , having flanges on both sides .
From these results the author recommends that a combination of angle-iron should be used for these objects , as explained in the paper , and shown in the diagrams which accompany it .
In order to render the inquiry of practical value , experiments were made on the resisting powers of plates , by forcing a blunt instrument with hemispherical end of three inches diameter through the plates .
These experiments were again repeated under similar circumstances upon timber , and a comparison is drawn from these data as to the resisting power of each .
These experiments are interesting so far as they establish the superior strength of iron when exposed to severe strain , as frequently occurs in vessels taking the ground upon boulder-stones , or any uneven surface .
These results being obtained , the author closes the paper with a series of experiments made at Woolwich Dockyard on the strengths and elongation of iron-bars .
In this department some curious results are obtained , such as the fact that an iron bar , when elongated to a considerable diminution of its sectional area , was not reduced but rather increased in strength ; and after repeated experiments , it was found that wrought-iron bars , when elongated or wire-drawn , were 2

