1886 .
] On a New Form of Stereoscope .
317 have generally the same character and range at intervals of half a lunation , and opposite characters at intervals of a quarter of a lunation .
An expression for the variation at any age of the moon that would satisfy these characteristics would take the form fc-fh ) cos +/ .\#166 ; 2 W sin where h is the hour of the solar day , P the mean period of a lunation , and t the age of the moon , and fc-fli ) , are solar diurnal variations that are constant for the same season of the year .
It was found that although such a formula embraced the bulk of the phenomena , there remained minor characteristics of a systematic kind that found expression only in the extra terms of the formula when extended as follows:\#151 ; / c-iO ) cos^^ + / ,.1(fc)sin^^+/ \#171 ; ,.s(fc ) cos sin Not only does the hypothesis hold good in the different seasons of the year and with respect both to the declination and horizontal force at Bombay , but the variations of the two elements are related to each other in a definite manner ; in the winter season the variations of declination at one age of the moon are similar to those of the horizontal force at an age of the moon one-eighth of a lunation greater ; and conversely , in the summer and autumn the variations of horizontal force take precedence of those of the declination by one-eighth of a lunation .
So far as the means of testing it are available , the hypothesis holds also in respect of magnetic variations at Trevandrum .
Each term of the formula is symbolical of a definite physical conception , viz. , that an otherwise constant variation swells and contracts with a wave-like motion , as the age of the moon increases , between the limits \#151 ; /(/ \amp ; ) and +/ ( A ) .
The existence of luni-solar variations of the kind described is , so far as the author is aware , brought to light for the first time , by the long series of observations taken at Bombay , and their capability of expression in a compact form which has a definite physical significance cannot , the author thinks , fail to be helpful towards the discovery of the physical conditions that lie behind them .
IV .
" On a New Form of Stereoscope .
" By A. Stroh .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. Received March 22 , 1886 .
Although the late Sir Charles Wheatstone 's beautiful invention , the stereoscope , gives the appearance of full relief or perfect solidity to photographs of objects seen by its aid , the photographs for the Mr. A. Stroll .
[ Apr. I , same must naturally be of limited dimensions ; and though viewed through magnifying lenses , the images of the objects are presented to the eye on a scale far below the size of their originals .
It has therefore occurred to me , that if the magnified image of a photograph projected on a screen by the optical lantern could be made stereoscopic , a still greater resemblance to the original might be obtained .
With a view of producing such an effect , I have constructed the apparatus I will now describe , which is , however , not intended to enable a large number of persons to see the projected pictures at the same time , as in the case of dissolving views , but is at present limited to the use of two persons simultaneously .
It could , however , be easily constructed so as to be available for a greater number .
The principle of the arrangement depends on the well-known effects of the persistence of vision ; revolving disks are employed for alternately obscuring two pictures , projected on a screen in the same place , and at the same time interfering with the view of the observer in such a manner that only one picture is seen by the observers ' right eyes , and the other by the left eyes ; Two optical lanterns are placed side by side , as for dissolving views .
Two transparencies , photographed in the same manner , as if intended for an ordinary stereoscope , are placed one in each lantern , and projected on a screen in such a position that they overlap each other as nearly as possible .
The picture which is intended to be seen by the right eye may be placed in the right hand lantern , and the other in the left .
Supported by suitable framework , and in the front of the two lenses of the lanterns , is a revolving disk , portions of which are cut away , so that during its revolutions it obscures the light of each lantern alternately , or in other words , so that only one picture at a time is thrown on the screen .
A continuous change from one picture to the other is thus obtained .
In the same framework , and in convenient positions for the observers , two pairs of eye-holes are provided , one pair on either side of the apparatus .
Behind each pair is also a rotating disk , and these disks are connected by suitable wheel-work or driving bands with the one previously mentioned , in such a way that the three disks rotate together , and at the same rate .
The two last-named disks are also so cut that they will obstruct the view through the right and the left eye-holes alternately .
Finally the connexion between the three disks has to be so arranged that the time of obscuring the view of the observers ' right eyes or left eyes shall coincide with the time when the light is shut off from the right or left lens of the lanterns respectively .
It is obvious that by this arrangement the left eyes can only see the 1886 .
] On a New Form of Stereoscope .
319 picture projected from the left hand lantern , and the right eyes can only see that from the right hand lantern .
The rotation of the disks must be of such a rate , that the alternate flashes of the right and left pictures on the corresponding eyes follow in such rapid succession that the impression made by one flash does not diminish sensibly before the next flash on the same eye is received .
The number of flashes for each eye which is required to produce an apparently continuous view , without any flickering effect , is from thirty to forty per second .
As the disks are so cut as to produce two flashes for the right eyes , and two for the left in one revolution , they must consequently be kept rotating at a rate of from fifteen to twenty revolutions per second .
The rotation of the disks is effected by a driving-wheel and band , worked by a crank handle at the back of the apparatus .
The perspective effect obtained by the above arrangement is very perfect , the image of each object standing out in solid relief .
Considering that by this arrangement the two eyes never see at the same time , and that each eye views its picture after the other , it is interesting to find that the persistence of vision so completely bridges over the alternate interruptions to which it is subjected as to produce the effect of a continuous view .
An unavoidable effect resulting from this arrangement is , that by the rotation of the disks one half of the light produced by each lantern is always cut off ; the higher , therefore , the illuminating power used the better is the result .
This defect is , however , I consider , counterbalanced by several advantages which this form of stereoscope possesses .
Firstly , the pictures can be enlarged to such an extent as to appear equal , or even larger than the original objects from which they were taken ; and secondly , the eyes , in looking at the pictures , are not in any way subjected to strain by lenses , prisms , or reflectors , or by the difficulty which some persons experience in getting the two pictures to superpose .
For each eye views its corresponding picture in exactly the same position it would see it in if it were looking at the original , since the two pictures are practically in the same place , which is not the case in any other form of stereoscope .
Although with the apparatus as here described only two persons can see the pictures at the same time , it would not be very difficult to construct it so as to be available for a greater number .
The side disks above described only serve to control one pair of eye-holes each , but by making them a little larger they would serve for two pairs each , thus accommodating four observers .
By increasing the number of disks , the number of observers might be increased proportionately .
VOL. XL .
z

