On the Corrections in the Elements of Delambre 's Solar Tables required by the Observations made at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
By George Biddell Airy , Esq. M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , and Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by John Frederick William Herschel , Esq. V.P.R.S. Read December 6,1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 23.1 The author was desired by the Board of Longitude to examine the discordancies between the right ascensions of the sun , as observed at Greenwich , since the erection of the new transit instrument , and as computed by the solar tables of Delambre , which are used in the computation of the Nautical Almanac ; with a view to the discovery of the errors in the elements of those tables .
The number of observations from which this comparison was made is 1212 , and they extend , with an interruption of only three months , from the end of July 1816 to the end of the year 1826 .
The result of the comparison at first indicated the necessity of a correction of the epochs of the sun 's longitude , and of the longitude of the perigee , and perhaps also of the equation of the centre .
But upon pursuing the examination through a series of years , it became manifest that some other source of irregularity existed , and that this could be no other than an erroneous estimate of the masses of some of the planets , especially of Venus and of Mars .
A more critical examination showed , that there was also an error in the assigned mass of the moon .
The author proceeds to state the process by which he arrived at the determination of the amount of these several corrections , It was found necessary in these investigations to take into account an error which occurred in the tables with regard to the secular motion .
It results from his researches , that the epochs for 1816 and those for 1.821 to 25 ought to be increased respectively by 4 " 734 and 5"061 ; that of the perigee increased by 46"'3 , and the greatest equation of the centre diminished by 0''84 .
The mass of Venus should be reduced in the proportion nearly of 9 to 8 , and that of Mars nearly in the proportion of 22 to 15 .
On a comparison of these results with those which have been derived from an examination of some of Dr. Maskelyne 's observations , as given by Burkhardt in the Connaissance des Tems for 1816 , they are found on the whole to agree in the most satisfactory manner .
The principal discordance occurs in the correction of the place of the perigee ; a discordance which the author thinks may arise either from want of correctness in the calculation of the term in the motion of the perigee , depending on the square of the.time , or , what is more probable , from some undiscovered inequality in the formula , which is a function of the sun 's mean longitude .

