546 Dr. J. H. Gladstone and A. Tribe .
[ June 17 , again increasing the pressure to 73 atmospheres .
On now rapidly-letting down the temperature to 15 ' C. a white mass of camphor separated out from the liquid , which again dissolved on a slight increase of pressure , although it could not be again separated out by diminishing it .
These actions may be due , in part , to supersaturation and the effect of pressure in aiding solubility when contraction takes place during solution .
These experiments show that carbonic acid at high pressures in presence of various substances acts as if it produced a series of unstable chemical compounds , which are decomposed and recomposed according to the conditions of temperature and pressure in the medium .
Further observations are required to elucidate many obscure actions taking place under such conditions of experimenting as are detailed in the above communication .
IV .
" The Aluminium-Iodine Reaction .
" By J. H. Gladstone , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Alfred Tribe , F.C.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Received June 10 , 1880 .
About four years ago we pointed out a reaction of iodide of aluminium which , as far as we are aware , has no precise analogue in the science of chemistry , and which has led to the discovery of several volatile aluminium alcohols .
It is well known that neither water , alcohol , nor ether is decomposed by metallic aluminium , and that each of these bodies will dissolve iodine without entering further into combination with it ; but we found that by the joint action of these two elements , it was possible to split up the above-mentioned liquids .
Water , though forming a definite hydrate with the iodide of aluminium , is decomposed by it in the presence of an excess of the metal , hydrogen being evolved and aluminic hydrate formed .
This takes place at the ordinary temperature .
Alcohol in a similar manner is decomposed by the joint action of metallic aluminium and its iodide , with the ultimate production of hydrogen gas , aluminic ethylate , and varying amounts of aluminic iodoethylate proportional to the quantity of aluminic iodide employed .
A small quantity of the iodide suffices to bring about the formation of a very large amount of the ethylate ; in fact , the process would be a continuous one , were it not that the solid products gradually put a stop to the reaction .
Ether is not affected by aluminic iodide and aluminium , but when exposed to iodine and aluminium simultaneously it suffers a violent decomposition , iodide of ethyl and the aluminic iodoethylate being the ultimate products .
Amylic ether behaves in a similar manner , and the acetates of ethyl and amyl give analogous results ; but the reaction is not an ordinary The Aluminium-Iodine Reaction .
1880 .
] double decomposition , for it does not take place when ready-formed iodide of aluminium is employed .
The several changes thus described are typical of our " aluminium-iodine reaction .
" The reaction is quite distinct from that which has lately given beautiful results in the hands of Friedel ; and we have investigated its applicability both for the production of new compounds , and for distinguishing between different classes of organic bodies , as well as for throwing light on their comparative constitution .
Neither zinc nor iron , nor , as far as we know , any other metal can be substituted for aluminium in this reaction ; but the chloride or bromide may be used instead of the iodide , though with less advantage .
Recent Results .
For decomposing an alcohol a small quantity of iodine is dissolved in it , the necessary excess of aluminium is added , and the mixture is heated .
Evolution of hydrogen gas begins immediately , and proceeds somewhat rapidly until the whole of the metal has passed into combination .
In this way the aluminium derivatives of the following alcohols have been prepared:\#151 ; Ethylic , .
normal propylic , iso-butylic , amylic , benzylic , phenylic , cresylic , and thymolic ; The first four of these aluminium derivatives may be distilled in , and they have thus been separated from the other solid products of the reaction , and obtained in a pure condition .
The other aluminic alcohols cannot be distilled , at any rate not without very considerable decomposition .
The following alcohols , however , behaved in a different way with the reagent:\#151 ; Methyl alcohol is not decomposed by aluminic iodide and aluminium , but in presence of free iodine it parts slowly with hydrogen , and the same happens when an aluminium-platinum couple is substituted for the metallic aluminium .
Iso-propyl alcohol.\#151 ; This is not acted upon in the least by the reagents .
Cetyl alcohol.\#151 ; On heating this compound with the reagent , hydrogen is slowly set free , until the temperature reaches about 200 ' C. , when another chemical change is set up , resulting in the formation of cetyl iodide and aluminic hydrate .
Allylic alcohol.\#151 ; The first action is identical in character with that which takes place with the alcohols of the C\#187 ; H3\#171 ; +1OH series .
Instead , however , of the whole of the liberated hydrogen escaping , about 30 per cent , of it acts upon the excess of alcohol , splitting it up into propylene and water .
Rthene alcohol.\#151 ; The reagent does not liberate hydrogen from this substance , and has but a very slight action upon it .
Propenylalcohol.\#151 ; No hydrogen is evolved , but a double decomposition ensues at about 140 ' C. , yielding allyl iodide , free iodine , and VOL. xxx .
2 Q 548 Dr. J. H. Gladstone and A. Tribe .
[ June 17 , aluminium hydrate ; if aluminium be in excess , aluminic hydrate and allylic iodide are the sole products .
Aldehyde.\#151 ; Hydrogen is not set free from this compound .
The general result , then , of these observations is that the reagent substitutes aluminium for the basic hydrogen of water , and of all the alcohols hitherto tried , whether of the methyl , allyl , benzyl , or phenyl series , with the remarkable exception of isopropyl alcohol .
On the other hand , it does not substitute aluminium for hydrogen in the dihydric or trihydric alcohols , nor yet with aldehyde .
The reaction with the ethers and glycerine is of a different character , as , in addition to an aluminium compound , the iodides of the positive Radicals are formed .
General Properties of the Aluminium Alcohols .
The aluminium alcohols are solid at the ordinary temperature , and fuse generally into clear liquids .
They possess , in a marked degree , the property of remaining fluid far below their melting points .
Those of the methyl series distil unchanged at reduced pressures , affording the first organic compounds which contain both oxygen and a metal and are capable of distillation .
They are soluble more or less in ether , alcohol , and benzol , but are decomposed by water with the formation of aluminium hydrate and the alcohols .
They were found to have the following specific gravities at 4 ' C.:\#151 ; Ethylate . . . . . .
1-147 Phenylate ... . . .
1-25 Propyl ate ... ... 1-026 Cresylate ,1166 Butylate . . .
... 0982 Thymolate ... . . .
1-04 Amylate ... . . .
0-980 Action of heat.\#151 ; All these alcohols are decomposed at a temperature somewhere about their boiling points , and it became an interesting subject of inquiry whether they were resolved into alumina , and the alcohol and its olefine , or into alumina and the ether .
Both these actions seem to take place .
Thus aluminic ethylate appears to be decomposed by heat in both ways , but mainly according to the following scheme:\#151 ; ( C2H50)6 Al3=A1A+3C2H4+3C2H60Aluminic phenylate on the other hand is capable of decomposition mainly in the following way :\#151 ; ( C , H,0 ) , A ] , =A1.0 + 3(06H5)20 .
It must not however be supposed that these decompositions take place without other reactions .
Some of the bodies thus produced are new ones , and we are at present engaged in their investigation .
The most interesting decomposition is that of the thymolate .
When 1880 .
] The Aluminium-Iodine Reaction .
heated it splits up into alumina , propylene , and bodies of the cresylic group .
One of these is a solid body , which when resublimed or crystallised from alcohol presents itself in most beautiful pearly plates .
Its properties resemble rather those of an ether , and concordant analyses of different specimens and determinations of vapour density give the anomalous molecular formula C14H130 , but its real constitution is still the subject of inquiry .
Theory of Reaction .
The reaction by which the compounds described above are formed is by no means clear at first sight .
It is difficult to imagine that the presence of a haloid salt should determine the direct replacement of hydrogen by aluminium in water or in alcohol .
We believe however that the presence of hydriodic acid in the reaction with the aromatic alcohols furnishes the true key to the chemical change .
The first action is in all probability that of a reciprocal decomposition between two binary compounds\#151 ; the alcohol and aluminium iodide foiming a certain proportion of aluminium alcohol and hydriodic acid .
But the metallic aluminium present at the same time decomposes the hydracid with evolution of hydrogen and the production of more aluminium iodide , which brings about a further redistribution of the elements and the formation of more of the aluminium alcohol and the hydriodic acid , and so on till the chemical change is complete .
The following equations express these changes , which take place alternately or rather continuously :\#151 ; ( 1 ) 6(C"H2"_7O.H ) + A12I6=A12(C\#187 ; H2I , _70)6 + 6HI .
( 2 ) 6HI + Al2=A12I6 + 6H .
It is evident that as the iodine does not enter into the final products a very small quantity of it is sufficient to carry on the continuous chemical change .
There can be little doubt that the same reactions occur in the case of the alcohols of the C\#187 ; H2M+1O.H series , but the amount of hydriodic acid formed in the reciprocal decomposition is perhaps very small , and the tenacity with which it is held by the alcohol has made it impossible for us to prove its separate existence .
The same remark applies also to water , which we believe to act in the saine way .
Indeed we know from the experiments of Roscoe that there would be no chance of separating minute quantities of acid from an aqueous solution under the circumstances .
The part which the free elements take in the decomposition of the ethers is doubtless analogous to that which the combined elements play in the action with water and alcohol .
The reason why the free elements do , and aluminic iodide does not attack the ethers , is probably 550 Prof. W. C. Williamson .
On the [ June 17 , owing to the available energy being greater in the former than in the latter case .
In conclusion , we would commend this aluminium-iodine reaction to the consideration of other chemists , who may be investigating organic compounds containing oxygen .
V. Preliminary Note on the Ossification of the Terminal Phalanges of the Digits .
" By E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. , and F. A. Dixey , B.A. Received June 3 , 1880 .
The diaphyses of the ungual phalanges of the digits offer an exception to the usual mode of ossification of diaphysial bones ( including the other phalanges ) in the fact that the calcification of the cartilage and its attendant changes begins at the tip and not in the centre of the diaphysis .
The subperiosteal intramembranous ossification also commences at the same point\#151 ; the tip , namely , of the cartilage\#151 ; as a cap-like expansion over the end of the cartilage .
The irruption of the osteoblastic subperiosteal tissue also first occurs here , so that this part seems to correspond morphologically with the centre of the shaft of other long bones .
The expanded portion of the phalanx which bears the nail , claw , or hoof , is entirely formed by an outgrowth of the subperiosteal bone , and is not preceded by cartilage .
A detailed account of the mode of ossification of these phalanges will be shortly published .
VI .
" On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
Part XI , " By W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester .
Received June 3 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) M. Renault has recently published a memoir , in which he reproduces the views of M. Brongniart respecting the relations which the Lepidodendra bear to the Sigillarise , still insisting that the former are cryptogamic Lycopods , whilst the latter are exogenous G-ymnosperms .
In endeavouring to establish this position , the French paleeo-botanist concludes that if the exogenous Diploxyloid stems Sigillarian ones ) are but matured states of some Lepidodendra , every Sigillarian type of organisation ought to be found in a young or Lepidodendroid form , because , he contends , the type of the central organisation , once established , undergoes no further change .
with advancing age .
In support of his position , he affirms that there are three such Sigillarian

