Inquiries For Hungary and Transylvania .
In prosecution of the Engagement , published Numb. 23 .
p. 414 , 422 .
we now subjoyn some other Inquiries , and first these , that were very lately recommended to a studious and inquisitive Transylvanian , who from London returned to his Country , and promised to procure good Answers to the following particulars , Viz .
1 .
what is observable in Hungary , Transylvania , and the Neighbouring parts , as to Minerals , Springs , Warm Baths , Earths , Quarries , Metals , &amp; c. ( Reference was here given to the Inquiries concerning Mines , printed Num. 19 .
) 2 .
Particularly , To inquire into the several sorts of Antimony , or Antimony-core , to be found in Hungaria ; and to inform us of the several places , whence they are digged , to the end , that they may be sent for : 3 .
To inquire , where the best Hungarian Vitriol is to be found , and the Cinnabaris nativa ?
4 .
To give us a true account of the right Gold-and Silver-Earthor Ore , said to be found at Cranach in Hungary ; whence the Gold is called Cranach-Gold , first lighted upon by the care of the Emperor Rudolphus , and chyinically wrought by his order and inspection ?
5 .
To inquire after , and send over some of that kind of Vitriol , which by credible persons is affirmed to be found chrystallized in Transylvania : As also , after the Vitriol of Tyrol , said to yield Gold .
6 .
To inform us of the Salt-pits in Transylvania , said to yield two sorts of perfect Salt , the one being a Sal Gemmae , the other , a common Table-Salt .
To observe how deep these Salt-mines lie from the surface of the Ground ?
How deep they are dug hitherto ; and what Damps are met with in them , &amp; c ?
7 .
To inquire after the Veins of Gold and Quick-silver at Crem nitz in Hungary ; and the Vein of Silver at Schemnitz in the same Kingdom : And to send over some of the best Ores of them ?
8 .
To inquire , Whether the Waters of the Thermae , that pass by Schemnitz , depose a certain sediment , which in time turns into a yellow Stone ?
9 .
Whether in the Mines of Gold , Silver , Copper , Iron , Lead , in Hungary , there be generally found Quick-silver and Sulphur ?
10 .
Whether it be true , that in the Copper-Mines of the place called Herren-ground in Hungary , there be found no Quick-silver at all ?
11 .
Whether it be true , that in some parts of the Upper Hungary , the Ores of Copper , Iron , and Lead , be sometimes so commixed , that there is often foun in the upper part of the Concrete , matter of Iron ; in the midst , matter of Copper , and in the lowermost , Lead ?
And that in other places of the same Country , Copperish fluors are mixed with Leaden ones ?
12 .
Whether it be true , what Athan .
Kircher writes from Relation , That the Ductus 's of Metals do sometimes run North and South , sometimes Cross-wayes ?
13 .
Whether there be in Hungary such a River , as is mentioned in Busbekius , whose water is so hot , and which is yet so ful of Fish , that he faith , one would expect , that all the Fish drawn thence , would come out boiled ?
14 .
Whether there be Springs about Buda or Alba Regalis , that rise at the bottom of the River so hot , that those who go to bathe , dare not put their feet so low as the Sand , for fear of having them parboyled ?
15 .
Whether there be in Hungary an Avernus , that exhaleth almost always such poisonous Steams , that Birds flying over it , do often-times fall down , either stupefied , or quite dead ?
16 .
Whether the Iron , that is said to be turned into Copper , by the Vitriolate Springs at Cremnitz or Smolnitz in Hungary , do after that Transmutation or Precipitation , contain a pretty deal of Gold ?
17 .
Whether the Depth of the Gold-Mines of Hungary be 2400 feet ?
18 .
Whether they find Trees , or any other Bodies in the solid Salt of their Salt-Mines .
19 .
Whether there be a great Lake in Moravia , whence of late years all the Waters were by accident drawn away , though formerly carrying Boats , and full of Fish ?
30 .
Whether it be true , what is affirmed by Authors , That in some parts of Hungary near the Gold-Mines , the Leaves of the Trees have their lower superficies , if not their upper also , gilded over with yellowish Exhalations ?
21 .
What is the way , said to be used in Austria and Hungary , of extracting the perfect Metals out of their Minera 's without Lead ; performed by casting a Powder upon the Minera , which makes a quick and advantageous separation ; Sulphur being supposed to be an Ingredient of it ?
Inquiries For AEgypt , by Thomas Henshaw Esq ; 1 .
WHether it rain there at any time , and if so , what time of the Year ?
Whether Rain make the Air wholesome , or pestilential , or otherwise unhealthful ?
2 .
To consider the Niter that is commonly sold there , and what affinity there is betwixt that , and our common Saltpeeter : to try by dissolving it in warm water , filtring it well , then boiling almost half away , and putting the remainder in an earthen Pan , and setting it in a cool place for two days , to see whether it will shoot into Chrystals of Peeter .
To send some quantity of it into Europe .
3 .
Whether the Earth of AEgypt , adjoining to the River Nilus , preserved and weighed daily , keeps the same weight , till the 17th of June , and then grows daily heavier with the increase of the River ?
4 .
Whether , if the Plague be never so great before , yet on the first day of the Nile 's increase , it not only increases , but absolutely ceaseth , not one dying of it after ?
5 .
To inquire particularly into the manner of Hatching Eggs in AEgypt ; How the Camel-dung is prepared , wherein they are laid ?
how often the Eggs are turned ?
how covered ?
Whether they hatch in Twenty one days , as they do with us under a Hen ?
Whether the Chickens be as perfect as ours ?
If imperfect , Whether that may not happen to them by rough handling , while they are removed , being very tender , out of the place where they are hatched ?
To take the design of the manner , how by the Pipes the heat is conveyed into several Rooms .
How they treat them betwixt the time of their hatching , and taking away by the Owners ?
Whether they do not also use to hatch Eggs under Hens ?
6 .
To inquire , Whether the great quantity of Yellow Amber , which is sold at Cairo , be by reason that it is the Gum of a certain Tree growing in AEgypt , or AEthiopia , as Bellonius after Diodorus Siculus affirms ?
And whether , besides several Animals that are found enclosed in that Amber , there is very frequently some part of the Bark of a Tree found sticking to it ?
7 .
To inquire of a certain Tree , growing not far from Cairo , which bears a Fruit stuffed with Wool , that is finer than Silk , of which the Arabs make Linen that is softer than Silk , and whiter than Cotton ?
8 .
Whether Crocodiles , that are found to be sometimes Thirty foot long , are hatched of an Egg , no bigger than a Turkeys ?
9 .
Whether the Ichneumon , or Egyptian Water-Rat can kill a Crocodile , by skipping into his Mouth , and gnawing his way out , as Old Writers affirm ?
10 .
Whether it be true , That the Arabs can Charm the Crocodiles ; or , Whether there be on the Nile 's side any Talismans , or Constellated Figures , beyond which the Crocodiles cannot pass , as some would make us believe ?
11 .
To inquire at Cairo for several Drogues , which are common there , and much in use , yet not brought into Europe , as Acacia , Calamus Odoratus , Amomum , Costus , Ben Album , and divers such others .
12 .
Whether the Female Palm-Tree be not fruitful , unless she grow by the Male , as some would bear us in hand ?
13 .
To inquire , Whether the Appearance of the Leggs and Arms of Men , related to stand out of the ground , to a great number , at a place five Miles from Cairo , on Good-Friday , do still continue ?
And how that Imposture is performed ?
14 .
Whether Children born there in the Eighth Month , do usually live , contrary to what is believed to happen in other Countries ?
15 .
To take an Account of the Wooden Locks there , which are said to be made with as great Art , as those of Iron , with us .
16 .
To observe the Course of the Waters , both of the Mediterranean , and the Red-Sea ?
Inquiries For Guiny , by Abraham Hill Esq ; 1 .
W Hither the River Niger overflows the Country yearly , like Nilus ?
2 .
Whether the Rain , when it falls , be often very hot , rotting the Cloaths , if not presently dried , and breeding Worms in them ?
3 .
Whether the Gold there , be of very different fineness , and that which is uppermost in the Mine be the finest ?
4 .
Whether the Palm affords them Wine , Oil , Vinegar , Soap , Bread ; and out of the Leaves they pick Threads , making thereof very curious Works ?
5 .
Whether they have , besides their Palm-Wine , a Drink made of Grain , like our Ale ?
What Grain that is , and how prepared ?
6 .
Whether their Arrows , they make , be poisonous ?
By what Tree , and how prepared ?
7 .
Whether some People on the River Gambra , be only Tawny , as others very Black ?
8 .
Whether the Negroes have such sharp sights , that they discover a Ship at Sea much farther off , than the Europeans can ?
9 .
What Reason there is to conclude , That the Common People being accustomed to drink Water , is the cause , that they are troubled with VVorms in their Bodies , very painful to them , and difficult to get out ?
FINI S. In the SAVO Y , Printed by T. N. for John Martyn at the Bell , a little without Temple-Bar , Printer to the Royal Society , 1667 .

