]\gt ; Mr. C. Chree .
Elastic Solid Ellipsoids under [ May 10 , Corona Spectrum from Slit Spectros oscope.specbroscopen i ' ' The Stresses and Strains in Isotropic EIastic Solid Ellipsoids in Equilibrium lmder Bodily Forces derivable from a Potential of the Second Degree By C. CHREE , M.A. , Fellow of King 's College , Cambridge , Superintendent of Kew Observatory .
Communicated by Professor W. G. F.R.S. Received March 2 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) If a system of bodily forces whose values per uIlit mass are derived from the potential acts on an ellipsoid Forces a Potentiat th .
27 whose density is uniform , the statical resultant reduces to a couple whose components about the axes of are respectively , and rIhese components vanish the case of a sphere , but in an ordinary ellipsoid equilibrium will not exist unless all vanish .
The problem solved in the present memoir , , that of an isotropic elastic solid ellipsoid under the action of bodily forces derived from a potential , is thus , for an ordinary ellipsoid , the most general case of equilibrium lmder forces derivedfrom a potential of the second degree .
The above potential covers forces arising from mutual gravitation or from rotation about a principal axis in an ellipsoid of any shape .
The method of soIution reverses the usual order of procedure , the stresses being first determined and then the strains and displacements .
The solution obtained satisfies without limitation or assumption of any kind all the elastic solid equations .
Unless the ratios assigned definite numerical values , the constant coefficients in the expressions for the stresses and strains are of course somewhat cumbrous ; but any specilied case , whether of gravitation or rotation , or both combined , the solution becomes easily mauageable .
It enables the variation in the effects of gravitation and rotation with the change of shape of the ellipsoid to be completely traced .
The comprehensiveness of the solved forbids more than a brief consideration of the genel'al solution with illustrations of its pplication to a few of the interesting special forms of The resuIts obtained for the very oblate and very oblong forms seem to show that in many cases of bodily forces the assumptions usually made in the treatment of thin plates and long rods would not be justified .
By comparison with the author 's previous reseal'ches , a close similarity is shown to exist between the phenomena in otating flat -psoids and thin elliptic discs on the one hand , and rotating elongated ellipsoids and long elliptic cylinders on the other .
Various results confirmatol'y of the accuracy of the present soIution are obtained by the application of the general formulae for the mean strains in elastic solids .
It is also shown that some of the results be arl.ived at by the use of approximate but simple methods .
The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday ,

