]\gt ; Prof. G. G. Stokes on the Foci of Lines [ June 2 ] liminary notice , and defer to a subsequent occasion a detailed account the whole subject , as known from observation .
In that paper 1 purpos to show how the indices can be accurately determined in minerals diflerent structure , to point out how closely observation agrees wit theory , and to describe a number of anomalies met with in particula specimens .
X. " " On the Foci of Lines seen through a Crystalline Plate .
By G. G. STOKES , bf .
A. , Sec. R.S. Received June 21 , 1877 .
At the Soire'e the Society on the 25th of April Mr. Sorb showed me the method he had recently devised for discriminating betwee : minerals by focusing a microsc.ope over a delicate image of cross which image was viewed , first directly , and then through a crystallin plate , ]lsly been adjusted to be at the distance of the lowe surface of the plate .
With glass singly refractin substances th iteration of the focus produced by the interposition of the plate afford a measure of its refractive index .
But ith a plate eut from a doubl .
crystal , not only is there more than one focal distance , but fo one at least of the pencils there is ( except in special cases ) no focus , the foci of the two systems of cross lines are found at two dif ferent depths , or else there is no sharply defined image at all , accordi to the orientation of the lines relatively to lines fixed in plate .
Moreovel the resuIt obtained on applying the formuh hich , fo a singly refracting plate , gives the index from the measure displacement of the focus is often iffereJlt from is knowl to be the index crystal , for the pencil under examina tion , in a direction perpendicular to the The phenomena will be described in detail by .
Sorby his paper .
My object is to show how they flow from the laws double refraction , as consequences of which they -ill necessarily under review * .
seemed certain that some of the phenomena must have been notice before , though I am not aware that they have been described , or their theory out in any detail .
I find that Prof. Clifton has been in the of an meant somewhat to .
Sorby 's , which was procured eral rs ago for Museum of the of Oxford , and that he was with such thingsas th low apparent index of calcite for the extraordinary pencil no .arly in the direction the axis , and the astigmatism in general of a pencil refracted across a plate otherwise than by ordinary refraction ; and , further , that he utilized these phenomena for instruction of students as to the general form of the wave-surface .
No ons , however so far as 1 know , before Mr. Sorby , applied the phellomena to the practical crimination of minerals , or ] worked them out and in detail ; and il is my desire to complete the subject , by ing the mathematical , that musl be my excuse for offering to the Sociely an tion itself consists merely in easy deductions from well-known principles .
It is perhaps hardly neccss to refer to a paper by Dr. QuiIlcke iu seen through a Crystalline Plate .
The simplest case is that of a crystal , such as Iceland spar , cut pendicular to its axis .
As regnrds the ordinary ray , a plate cut lniaxal crystal , in hatever d , of cotlrse , Iilce a plate ( glass , so far as focusin is concerned , and the index oblaiued is ths le index .
To lind place as ards the extraornary ray , we must have recourse fo Hue .vghens 's construction .
Let be any poin in the further surfaee of the crystalline plate , OA rpendicular to the surface the direction of the axis , OP the direction any extraordinary ray .
Let the plane of the }aper be the plnne of cidence , AOP ; take OA to represent the velociy of propagation ( a ) ithin the in the direction of the , and OD in OA produced represent the velocit.y of in air .
yith O as ntre , construct the ] is the linary sheet [ the wave-surface , and the hemisphere csenl i the to which a disturbance .
from would hnve spread in air in unit of time , and let OB or OC bc denoted .
Let OP cut the hadf}heroid in P. At a { ngent to the ) heroid , troce of hich on the surface of the is roject e iu and the ace a tangent plane to the ] it in , and in OQ .
Then an the in the irection OP , the refracted hich i ) rise in rection parallel to OQ .
HGncc if the ath of the ithin the ] fo , cutting in , the ray OP , nfter rtion at as if it .
Hence the limifing posit i of ) to ] ] bo geometrical focus , fter r , of a ) from , and OA for its axis .
PM to OA , rntio of the me of refraction to the sine of incidence .
; Annalen ' ) , ) hnes formed within a doubly ( were ) ) acle in ery erent manner from those of .
Sorb and with dilfelctt in tober 1877 .
] Prof. G. G. Stokes on the Foci of Lines [ June 21 and by similal triangles .
OQ , since ; also ultimately .
Hence as OA : OB : : : 1 , we uItimately , . . .
( 1 where denote the nary and the principal extraordinary indices refraction , hich are the reciprocals of In this particular case the extraordinary images canno be directly by their polarization , since each of polarized in all { zimuths .
But if the objective of the microscope limit ld by aperture , so as to give a predominance to rays in one ] , there in ths ordinary be a a plane paraJleI to the length of the aperture , and in th linary imng of in the perpendicular plane .
the cnse of a Llniaxal crysted cut paradlel to the axis .
this , as regnrds the , the divergence fter refrac tion ) ill be rent in the and ] anes , so that a small ging from ) at the under of the ] will , ) fraction , from lines ; and in order ] seen diStinCflV , it must lie in one of the planes of svmmetry , in hicl a focal adjustment of the microscope , each element of th ' line vould be seen as a short ] in the direction of the actu line , an thelefore the as a hole ] be seen sharpl defined .
the atorial pl the obeys the ordinnrv : refrnction ; ) trds drgeIlce , erefore , in this plane , on hict ision of a line to the axis , the ]tarcnt inde ] ill be ) same as the real index , .
In the axial no ery thing wil be the same i11 respect of ergence as in the first , except that princlpal axes of the ellipse hich is the ction .
the lordinftrJ will be a line in the toria .
plane will be seen a focal adjuslment which give here ill there fore , , be three fo adjusfments of the one or other of the svslems of cross lines , or botl clbcr , be seen distinc lnely , for the ext1aordinarv pencil .
is in he equnlorial the lines in the axia ] see ] ] dislinclY ; another at which in the equatoriaJ plaue are seen distitlclly ; and , intelmediate eeu these , a third for the seen through a Crystalline Plate .
ary pencil , which is polarized in the axial plane , at which both stems at once be seen distinctly .
And the index , which ill be given by the oldinary image , will be a geometric mean between two apparent extraordinary dices , of one , namely , that got om the in the axial plane , be the extraordinary index .
There are two , calcite and , for hich know , curately the principal indices for the of the from the measures of liudberg .
The prinoipal indices for these vo minerals and the apparent indices in the directions mentioned ara given in the ing Table .
The indices are eu to four laces of decimals , and the fixed lines are chosen , the sults to the of light most likely to be ]lay obain , directly or by tion .
It is well that the double refraction of quartz diffe ] from that the generality of uniaxal crvstnls .
] for colo of being the sphere spheroid of is a urfn ce of iistinct sheets , which , instead of , only 11 pproach along the axis .
The polar dinmelcrs of the outer , or and of the inner , or , sheet differ minnte and prnctically equal qunntities from the meter of the sheet .
The effect of this , , on he rermined by Mr. Sorby 's method on plate cut ) to , 11 old not be sensible .
The peculiarity old sho the lv images at different depths circularv .
on :]ndlhe other It be noticed that the ind of the radius of curvature of a ) to the lines seen focnh , ) tl may be seen distinctl 1 ) of principal ){ture .
This ) ) to it ill mnch simplify the from in enabling us to dispense he truction .
Let be a point in the first of he plale , a Prof. G. G. Stokes on the Foci of Lines [ June 21 pencil from in such a direction its axis , after rsfrncticn , is perpendicular to the ] Vith centre Odesc.ribe half a wave .
surl.ace , which only one sheet , DEF , is represented in the figure tc confnsion .
In a direotion parallel to the of the Fig. 2 .
a to the wave-surface , touching it in E. Join O , and normal to the plate , and produce it to cut DF in H. The ] ] O is the course of a ithin the crystal which , after ction , proceeds direction perpendiculnr the plate , and is therefore the of the .
Let OPQ be an cent ray , the lrface i the plane , may suppose to coincide with second surface of the ] , in Q. the retardation of the on .
at to the , ) be the time the ray of light takes to from to Q. The form of the after refr ction il ] depend only on the valne of this retardation , arded as a ction of the two coordinates hich d the position of on the .
Tbis follovs at once from principle .
If regard QE as a snlalJ of the first order , the ret tion ill be a small quantity of the second order ; and in the foci of the refracted pencil only ant to know the rdation true to this order , and we substitute for the actual retardation any quautity which to it a that is ultimately one of equality .
llence , the ave progrcsses the crystal beyond DEF , may feign ib t.o be travelling in an ordinary medium , with a velocit of propagation to the in the direction HE norm ] ro the .
] if from a norQM drawn to the -surface , the locify { ] ill differ from that in the direction HE by a small quantity of the first order ; and since the whole distnnce is a quantity of the second order , we may neglect the variation of elocity , and treat the lnedium if it were a singly refracting one , in hich a as trnvelling which had already , by some means , cquired the form DEF .
$rr .
] seen through a Crystalline Plate .
Through the normal EH draw the two rectangular planes of principal lrvature of the surface at , and let be the centres of ' the radii of curvature , on the scale in which HE epresents -velocity in the direction HE .
Then the rays in that plane of rincipal curvature , the in which intersect in , may be thought as diverging from in an ordinary medium , of hich the ldex is .
If be the thickness of the plate , the distance of from he second surface be , and the product of this by , or ) ill iv the distnnce of the focus in that plane after refraction ; and herefore the apparent index of refrnct i ill be .
Similnrly will will be the apparent index in the other .
And in order that one or there of the systems of lines may be seen distinctly at he proper focus , the lines must be placed respectively to planes of principal curvature .
A construction applies to the other pencil which the ] is apable of transmitting independently , to corresponds the other sheet of the -surface , and hich is pol rized iu a plane to the plane of polarization of the formel pencil .
In a biaxal crystnl , which neither sheet of the -surface is a sphere , there ill general be four focal distances at which in proper directions be seen distinctly .
For either pencil the required directious perpendicular to each other ; and if the ] be perpendicular to one of the principal , or ] anes of optical symmetry of the crysi , the required directions of the cross lines are the for both pencils , namcly , parallel and perpeIldicular to the plane of symmetry .
The case next in of simplicity to of a uni crystal cut parnllel to the is that of a ysfal cut in a dircction perpendicular to one of the principal axes ; but before to this it may be vell to complete the } estigalion for uniaxnl , by conplate cut in any manner .
Let be the inclination of the axis of the crvstal to the to the phte ; , as before , the polar and torial semiaxes of he spheroid .
We need only consider the ray nnd spheroid sponding to it .
Let be the radius of ture of the clliptic section made by the principal the radius of curvatnre of perpcndicular section , hich will be the length of llormal as as rxis of revolution .
and are to be ) in tetlns of .
We have , . . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) ( 2 ) gives the apparent index as sing on a line perpendicular to the principal plane , and ( 3 ) as obtained by foeusing on line in the principal plane .
Prof. G. G. Stokes on the Foci of Lines June 2 We see from ( 2 ) that as changes from to changes from to , of which one is greater than and the other less than Hence for an intermediate value of .
For this value we from ( 2 ) . . . . .
( 4 In this case , as in that of a uniaxal cut perpendicular to axis , there only two focal distances at which a distinct is seen But the two cases are easily distinguished ; for in the present case ordinary and extraordinary images are both polarized in definite planes also at one of the focal nces o one of the systems of cross lines namely , those parallel to the principal plane , are seen distinctly ; and further , either extraordinary image becomes used when the plate } rotRted in its plane .
For this llclination ws , in the case of Iceland spar according to the indices above quoted for the line In this mineral the normal to the plane of easy is indined the axis at the angle .
Substituting this value in ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) writing for , we have , for the apparent indices of th extraordinary pencil:\mdash ; For lines For lines perpendicular to the parallel to the principal plane .
principal plane .
For the fixed line . . . .
In biaxal crystals the simplest case , and at the time the most important , is that of plate cut perpendicular to one the principa .
axes , or so-cnlled of .
As the calculation for both is preciselv the same for the extraordinary pencil in a plate of a uni- axal crystal cut parallel to the axis , it will be sufficient to give Let the principal be digatd as those of , to which relate the or principal velocities of propagation , , and thei1 , the principal indices , I will suppose in descending , and consequently in scending order of magnitude* .
For the of the Table , be convenient to specify the direction of the line seen in focus , that of the to the plane of tion of the .
]yhen these directions are different , the plane of the plate is defined , that them both .
* In the previous investigation for Iceland was taken for the ordinary wave velocity , in order to conform to the notation in Airy 's tract , so that was greater tb seen throngh a Crystalline Plate .
rhen they are the same , the of the plate ma .
be either of the prinpal planes onlmon direction ; and , indeed , it might be plane containing it , only that the se of a plate cut obliquely is not present under consideration .
The apparent indices obtained by using ] be arranged as to focus .
Dilection of li brought It may be well to give the erical resnlfs for topaz , as lculated from Rudberg.s indices .
I chosen the same fixed lines as before .
The numbers in the ipal indices .
Prof. G. G. Stokes on the Foci of Lines [ June 2 ] I proceed now to the case of a plate cut in any direction perpendiculs to one of the principal planes , to which I propose to limit myself , mere ] that the leading features of the most general case alread been noticed .
The principal plane perpendicular to the plate being a plane of opticc symmetry , the proper directions for the cross lines are parallel and to that plane .
Let the plane of symmetry be the plane , without necessarily implying thereby that the axis of is that of mea parameter , and let be tlJe inclination of the normal to the plate to th axis of .
The scction of the wave-surface , which I assume to be that Fresnel , by the principal plane being a circle and an ellipse , the for the foci of a line to the principal pJane will be the sam as for a , inasmuch as the relatioJl 1hich , in the case of crystal , subsists between the radius of the circle and one of th of the ellipse is not involved in the formulae .
For light polarize perpendicularly to the principal plane , then , the pparent index for line parallel to is given by ( 2 ) , while for the other pencil it is simpl .
or To find the foci for a line lying in the plane of symmetry , mus have recourse to the -surface itself , and not merely to its principa section .
We have to find the radius of curvature at any poiut in principal section for a normal section perpendicular to the principa plane .
Let be a point in the principal section , the at point in PN near through draw MQ parallel to , cutting the sheet of the wave-surfaee to which belongs .
Then the limi of , as moves up to , will be the radius of required .
Taking the equation of the wave-surface under the form ' let be the cordinates of , and those of Q. Substi , tuting in ( 5 ) , which , by , is satisfied by the coordinates observing that are small ntities of the order , and omittin small quantities of the order find Let , and first suppose to lie in the circular section .
Then .
Also , as the normal coincides with the radius vector , seen through a Crystauine Plate .
Substituting in ( 6 ) and putting , we find for the curvature , ( 7 ) hich gives the apparent index for light polarized in the principal plane yhen a lille in that plane is brought into focus .
Next let in the elliptic section , then reduces ( 6 ) to , ( 8 ) which , on putting for , reduces ( 8 ) to .
( 9 ) We havs also which , combined with the to the ellipse , gives On in ( 9 ) , and reducing , find , ( 10 ) which the apparent index for light perpendicularly to the principal , when a line in that is brought focus .
To sum up .
For the pencil hich is pol in the .
the apparent index for a line to that is the real or hile for a line in the it is ( For the pencil which is rized perpendiculnrl.v10 ] ) ths apparent index for a line to thnt by for a line in the plane by ( 10 ) .
On exanliniug the ious ( and ( 10 ) for rndu of curvature Prof. G. G. Stokes on theFoci of Lines [ June of normal sections perpendicular to the principal plane , we see that if be the greatest or least parameler they iemain constantly positive .
if be the mean rameter , both expres ions change sign twice , pas.sing through zero , and once through infinity , as c.hanges fro to The radii of curvature become infinite tlJer when ; is , when the plate is perpendicular to the optic axis .
For a point the circular section the radius vanishes ; that is , when the plate is perpendicnlal to the -axis .
For a point } the elliptic section the radius vauishes when ; that is , when the plate is to the normal to the elhpti section at the point where ffie sections intersect .
A may make these changes clearer .
Let be a quadrant Fig. 8 .
the plane perpendicular to the axis of mean parameter .
Let be circular , and AC the elliptic section , intersectin in , PQ the common tangent , BN a normal at to the elliptio section .
Conceive a plate cut perpendicular to the plane of , its normal being inolined at the a1lgle to ; and imagine to change continuously from to : and let represent the radii of curvature in the secondary plane Oz being deemed seen through a Crystalline Plate .
397 primary pl ) for points in the sections rely .
As starts from zero , starts from and increases , and starts from and decreases .
When becomes BOB , ' vanishes , and be.yond that icomes negative , while continucs to increase .
As increiLses to increases positively , and negatively , to infinity , .and beyond both change sign , becoming negative and .
As creases to , decreases negatively to zero , while ' decreases Jsitively from infinity .
On passing ANR , becomes positive , and ineases to its final value , , which it reaches when decreases its final value , .
Thus though may say that as ) increases to ' increases from to by through and , and reases from to by passing through The agant ohanges of apparent index in the immediate neighourhood of the wave-and ray-axes could probably not well be followed the microscope , on account of the nec.essity of working with pencils .
of nite angular aperture , which would make the of focusmg lend themselves with those of conical refrnction .
But there can be little oubt that a large increase or diminution of apparent index on approachths critical region would be readily discernible .
these ohanges not confined to the principal plane is evident , inasmuch as one prinipal radius of curvature of the wave-surface becomes infinite at any point the circle of contact of the surface with the plans perpendiIular to the optic axis , and one principal radius of vanishes the conical point , to whatever normal section it be thought of as )elongiug .
Let us now resume the equations ( 2 ) , ( 10 ) , which givs the principal urvatures for the elliptic section , without decidin beforehand any to the relative magnitude of the parameters .
As / changes from to , the radius of curvature in the primary lane changes from to that in the secondary from to ; and the ratio of the radii , therefore , nges from to which one is greater than 1 and the other less than 1 .
If , then , th radu remain , as is the case in the two priucipal planes passlng through the mean axis , the two radii must be equal for some intermediate value of .
Hence there must be four bilici in of these find the umbilici we must equate the values of by ( 2 ) , ( 10 ) , whence , which gives , after rednction , This expression shows that the umbilici in the elliptic section made by Prof. G. G. Stokes on the Foci of Lines [ June the principal plane of greatest and least parameters are imaginary .
we take to denote the inclinations to of the normals to tl umbilici in the planes of , we have , by the requisite interchang of letters:\mdash ; . . . .
If a plate be cut perpendicular to the normal at ons of these umbilic one of the polarized pencils which it trnnsmits will give ths images both tems of cross lines distinct together ; and the distinctness wi not be affected by rotating the ] in its 0W11 plane while the cross are fixed .
In this respect it agrees with a plate of a uniaxed crystal in an arbitrary direction , with which it might easily be confounded .
BL if the double refraction be strong enough to give a sensible lateral tion of the two oppositely polarized images , the two cases be disti11 guished thereby in either of irst , if the images be compare with a mark fixed to the focus of the eyepiece , and the crystal be rotate in its own plane , while the object it.is fixed , in the case a uniaxal crystal the image free from astigmatism will remain fixed , whil any point of the otlJer describes a small round its mean positio1 ] whereas in a plate of a biaxal crystal cut perpendicular to the normal a one of the umbilici above considered it is ths reverse ; the imitge by natism remains fixed , though its distinctuess alters , while an ] point in the other describes a small circle about its mean position Secondlv , if the plane of separation of the two oppositely polarized image , be noticed , in a ] crvstal the plane of zation of the which is free from tism will be parallel to the plane of tion , while in a rystal cut as above supposed it will be perpendi cular to the plane of separation* .
There are no umbilici in the circular sections of the wave-surface mad ' by the princip planes .
If we equate given by ( 7 ) to be the rildius ol curv tnre in the primary plane , we get , in fact , , whicf cannot be satisfied .
The formulae give for ( ray D ) in aragonite and ; in topaz and .
In the employmeJlt of his method Mr. Sorby has chiefly had in view the discrimination of mineraIs , but it admits of one or interesting ications to At the time when Fresnel invented his theory of double refraction if * [ The first test supposes the surfaces of the plate to be pretty truly parallel , otherwise it would produce displacement in consequence of its slightly wedge-shaped form ; and Mr. Sorby thinks this requirelllent would prevent this test from being of much use .
As to the second test , it is to that in any case in which know independently which is the principal plane we need not attempt to the lateral separation of the images.\mdash ; Octobar 1877 .
] seen through a Crystauine Plate .
been supposed , from the observations of those had specially exained ths question , that in biaxal crystaJs one of the rays obeyed 4inary law of refraction ; proved by two methods , both quiring skill on the of the optician who cut the crystals , that the lticipation that his theory led him to entertain that that would not prove the case Yerified .
It is resting to find that the extraornary of the refraction of both in a biaxal crystal admits .
: being established by such a simple mode of observation ; that of .
Sorby .
The theory of Fresnel is confessed ] vanting in rigour ; and though be observations of Huyghens , of lVollastoll , and of JMalus proved that spnr Huyghens 's construction , if not rigorously true , was at a very close approximation to the truth , it seemed desirnble to put to a sharper observational test , more especially as different theories ight lead to Huyghens 's construction as ) .oximation .
lstance , in a pnper read before the Philosophical Socicty in 849 , I obtained a formula*which led me to that double refrac(on would be simply accounted for by it to a of [ tertia in different directions , such as ould produced if a fluid had to oake its way among a number of bodies the rrauged , that arrnngement being different in different directions , and bat the wave-velocity on this theory , ould be related to the direction of he wave normal just as in the theory of Fresnlel , ith exccption that he reciprocals of -velocities ould the place of the velocities hemselves .
I refrained , howeler , from putting form ither in the memoir referred to or elsewhere I Imve Jluded to it in my report on double ) , becansr1 , ou ating he diflerence of ction of the ordinary r on this theory itnd ccording to Huyghens 's construction , at about from the axis , here he diflerence would be greatest , I it ] , as seemed me , to have escaped detection .
Still this hich ] ) occurred ndependently , in the or a similar sh iLpe , to others , led me to ish :or a more exact and in tho report referred to I have proosed a method which seemed to to lead to tho ired oesult .
This method I carried out some yenrs the case of , though I did not publish the results ; found , 10 hc Iinlit of error of my observatioos about iu , construction was fully the of ] hundred times as great as the limit of ) ) $ Cambridge ctionR , viii . .
] Report of the British ) , 1 ) .
See papers by the tl zinc , ( 1851 ) , p. 441 , and by Lord )lcigh in ho S This result is briefly menboned in Iings } p. 443 .
VOL. XXY I. 2 Foci of Lines seen through a Crystalline Plate .
[ June 21 'ccuracy of the lIuyghenian law has also been confirmed by the elaborat } observations of M. Abria* .
In the method of prismatic refraction employed by M. Abria and my self , the difference between Huyghens 's construotion and the result of th , theory just referred to is greatest about from the axis , while close to the axis , or to the equator , it would hardly be sensible .
Mr Sorby 's method is remarkable for this , that it out in toprominenc variations of ction with change of direction , though the ctions which are involved may be nearly the same .
Thus Mr. informs me that his method shows with perfect distinctness the two differcnt foci for a plate of Iceland spar cut perpendicular to the axis , evez though the inclination of the rays concerned to the axis is so small that when polarized light is used , which is extinguished by an analyzer , field remains dark after the interposition of the crystal .
In the theory referred to above the extraordinary sheet of the wavesurface is generated by the revolutio ] of the curve which is the of straight lines whose distance , , from the origin is connected with inclination , , to the axis by the relation The radius of curvature of this envelope the axis is .
and accordingly the nppareut index , , is given by which exceeds the ) parent index , , given by the spheroid oi lIuyghens by . . . . . . . .
The same formula will apply to a point in the equator if we interchange and Putting these excesses into numbers , accordin to Rudberg 's indices the line in spar , we find and for apparent indices illstead of for a plate to the , and of for a plate to the axis when the microscope is focused on a line the equatorial plane .
These differences are much too large to detection .
POSTSCRIPT .
Being anxious to complete the theory of the images free from astigmatism by determining in what cases , if in any , they could be formed by * de Chimie , tom .
, ( 1874 ) p. 289 .
On Resistance to the Passage of an Electric Current .
401 ransmission in a perpendicular direction across a line p cut therwise than perpendicular to a principal plane , I have since )orked the differential equation cen rameters ) of the lines of urvature of the wave-sulffice , the discussion of which shows that there no umbilici out of the principal planes .
Hence the four directions tetermined by equations ( 15 ) are the only ones perpendiculnr to hich a plate be cut one of the is free from matism.\mdash ; October 1877 . .
' Notes on Physical .
III .
On the Age of the Continent of Asia and Europe ; and on the Absolute Measure of Time By Rev. S. M.D. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Dublin .
Received June 11 , 1877 .
This paper was withdrawn by the Author after tho , for correcion of a numerical error , and will appear ils mended next Session .
The Society then adjourned over the Long Vacation , to ovember 15 .
' On the Increase in to the of ]cctric Current produced on certain Wircs by \ldquo ; By BERT ILINSON , of osop King 's College , London .
by .
W. G. ADAMS , .
Reccived Novcmbcr 1 , 18 Rcad Dcccmber 21* .
The object of this iuquiry to { -crminc the lcl{ ncreased resistance to the pass of an fric ( force ; ( 2 ) to ascertain how mnch of .
in produced by mere of length .
In order to determine the of ) , { wires were each divided into ) l-t in One end of each part .
nl3 ' ) , olock of wood , the l , ools used bci ) block of wood in which they ' I strong uprights , hich were weights attached to the vircs on uprights were placed .
) al of .
Rov .
So

