]\gt ; Phenomena Connected with Turbulence in the Lower Atmosphere .
By G. I. TAYLOR , M.A. ( Communicated by Sir Napier Sh .
awe , F.R.S.\mdash ; Received October 16 , 1917 The object of the present paper is to bring together some of the meteorological phenomena which depend on the turbulence of the lower atmosphere , to show how they depend on one another , and to demonstrate some numerical relationships which exist between them .
The transference of heat , water vapour and momentum by means of eddies has been discussed by the present writer in a previous paper .
* It was shown there that the effect of turbulent motion on the atmosphere is to endow it with a power of transmitting heat in much the same way as a solid possessing a coefficient of conductivity .
The temperature , however , which enters into the equations of conductivity in the atmosphere is potential temperature , instead of the actual temperature , as it is in the case of the equations for flow of heat in a conducting solid .
Thus , if the turbulent air is at a uniform temperature , heat will be transmitted downwards because , under those conditions , the potential temperature increases with height .
The power possessed by the atmosphere in virtue of its turbulence of transmitting heat and momentum may be represenbed by the symbol , where proportional to the velocity and to the scale of the bulenoe .
As a rule the atmosphere is stratified in the sense that temperature and velocity vary uch more rapidly in a vertical than in any horizontal direction .
In this case the rate at heat flows into unit volume of air is where is the potential temperature , the density and the specific heat of air , and is height measured from the ground .
The rate at which momentum parallel to the horizontal axis is communicated to unit volume is where is the mean component of velocity parallel to the axis , and the should , according to this theory , be the same in the two cases .
may be taken as equal to , where represents the meatl vertical component of velocity due to the turbulence , and represents the mean vertical distance through which any portion of the atmosphere is raised or lowered while it forms part of an eddy till the time when it breaks off from it , and mixes with the .
This may be taken to be roughly equal to the diameter of a circular eddy .
' ' Eddy Motion in the Atmosphere ' Phil. Trans , vol. 215 , p. 1 , 1915 .
The potential temperature of the air at any height is the temperature to which it would be reduced by expanding or compressing it adiabatically to a standard pressure .
Mr. G. I. Taylor .
Phenomena Connected with In the paper already referred to , values of have been found for the turbulence of air blown over the sea , from the measurements of the temperature over the Great Banks of Newfoundland .
A few simultaneous measurements of wind velocity over the same area tend to show that the value of this involved in the equations which represent the transference of momentum is of the same order of magnitude as the involved in the heat transference equations .
The average value obtained for by these measurements was in C.G.S. units .
On the other hand , observations taken by means of pilot balloons over Salisbury Plain , of the involved in the momentum transference equations indicate that the value of on land is much greater .
The mean value was of the order .
In 1914 I did not know of the existence of any observations which would enable me to calculate the value of the involved in the equations for heat transference through the atmosphere over the laud , but I have since found , in the ' Annals du Bureau Central ique de rance , ' for 1894 , a series of temperature measurements made at various heights on the Eiffel Tower , which supply the data necessary for calculatin this quantity .
It will be seen later that these measurements indicate that the value of over the land is of the order , but that it varies considerably with the time of year , and also , to a certain extent , with the height above the ground .
Observations on the Eiffel Tower . .
the five years 1890-94 hourly obseryations of temperature were taken at three different heights on the Eiffel Tower , at 123 , 197 , and 302 metres above ground .
The results have been given by M. Angot , who discUssed the observations , in the form of the mean temperature of the air for each hour in the day for each month in the year .
Each figure given by M. Angot is , therefore , the mean of about 150 observations .
On examining the rise and fall in temperature during the day at the various stations on the Eiffel Tower , it will be found that the temperature may be represented very approximately by a simple harmonic function of the .
That is to say , the curve which represents the variation in temperature during the day is approximately a sine curve .
A specimen curve ( fig. 1 ) has been picked out at random from the observations , and the true sine curve which most nearly represents ths real curve has been drawn in as a dotted line beside it .
It will be seen no serious error will result from taking the sine curve instead of the true curve for the purposes of calculation , and it will be found that this introduces considerable simplification into the calculations .
Table I.\mdash ; Amplitude in Centigrade Degrees of the Daily Variation of Temperature at Various Heights .
In Table I are shown the amplitudes of the daily variation in temperature for the various months of the year at various hei , above the grolmd .
As be expected , the daily range in temperature decreases with the above the ground , and the rate at which this range decreases evidently depends on the amount of turbulence in the atmosphere .
Ihese observations of daily range will now be used to calculate the value of for each month in the year .
It will be found that the calculations are very greatly simplified if it is assumed that is constant at all heights .
This assumption will therefore be made in the first place , and afterwards the effect of varying will be considered .
140 Mr. G. I. Taylor .
Phenomena onnected with If represents the height above the ground , the equation for convection of ; heat by means of turbulence is , where represents the rate of increase in temperature with time .
If be independent of this becomes .
( 1 ) A solution of ( 1 ) is where If the daily variation of temperature at the height represented by , where hours or 86,400 sec. , the daily range is From ( 2 ) it will be seen that the ratio of the daily ranges , and , at two .
and , is Hence Hence , if the ratio of the daily ranges at two heights which differ by amount is known , the quantity may be found from the equation .
( 4 ) The value of may then be found from equation ( 3 ) .
In Table I are given the observed daily ranges at three stations on the Eiffel Tower at heights of 123 , 197 , and 302 metres above the ground , and also the daily range at a station on the terrace of the Bureau ique .
at a height of 18 metres above the ground .
If were independent of , it could be found by taking the ratio of daily ranges at any two heights , .
and the same result would be obtained whichever pair of ranges were taken. .
If , therefore , all the values of obtained by applying equations ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) to various pairs of stations at different heights are the same , we are justified in assuming that this is the true value of On the other hand , if it be found that the values of found in this way diminish as the mean of the air between the two stations increases , it seems justifiable to assume that diminishes with height , while , if the values of obtained in this way are found to increase , the real value of increases .
This method of calculation will not give the true values of , unless is found to be constant or nearly constant at all heights , but it may be taken as , qualitatively , certain general esults concerning the changes in the * Strictly speaking , this is only true if the stations extend up to such a height that the daily variation in temperature is small compared with the daily variation near the ground , but no considerable error is likely to arise owing to the fact that thia condition is not fulfilled .
Turbulence in the Lower Atmosphere .
amount of turbulence at various above the ground during the course of the year .
In Table II are iven the results of applying equations and ( 4 ) to the daily ranges in temperature given in Table I , in order to find the mean value of in different months of the year .
Table II.\mdash ; Mean Values of between Various from 18 to 302 Metres above the Ground .
The most noticeable feature of the Table is the way in which the turbulence appears to decrease with height in the winter and to increase in the summer .
In June and July , for instance , the mean values of in the whole height of the tower , from 18 to 302 metres , are 18 and while the mean values from 197 to 302 metres are 29 and respectively .
In the winter November , December , January , and February \mdash ; the mean values of from 18 to 302 metres are , and while the mean values from 197 to 302 metres are respectively .
The explanation of this diminution of turbulence at the top of the Eiffel Tower in the winter must be looked for in the temperature gradient .
The mean temperature gradient up to 300 metres is considerably less than the radiant in the winter , and the number of occasions when the adiabatic gradient is reached is comparatively small .
A gradient less than the adiabatic has a tendency to prevent the spontaneous formation of turbulence , and to suppress it when formed by any outside agencies , such as obstacles on the ground .
In the summer the mean temperature gradient in the first 300 metres is much more nearly adiabatic , and the number of occasions when it reaches Mr. G. I. Taylor .
Phenomena Connected with the adiabatic gradient is large .
A gradient equal to the adiabatic gradient has a tendency to encourage the spontaneous formation of turbulence .
nder these circumstances , an increase in the value of with height is to be expected , because is proportional to the vertical component of turbulent velocity and to the diameters of the eddies .
It is to be expected that the eddies will increase in size as the above the ground increases , because they have more room to grow .
There will , therefore , be a tendency for to increase with height .
Looking at the first and third columns in Table II , it will be seen that the mean values of between 18 and 302 metres and between 197 and 302 metres both have a maximum in the summer and a minimum in winter , but the variation is much greater in the latter case than in the former .
It is a matter of some interest , therefore , to find out whether the value of near the ground shows any marked monthly variation .
In column 4 , Table II , is given the result of applying equations ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) to the daily ranges of temperature at 18 and 123 metres , but it must be remembered that the errols due to the method used in deducing are greater near the ground , where the most rapid variations are likely to occur , than they are ) up .
Accuracy in the figures of column 4 is therefore not to be expected .
It will be seen that the values of near the ground appear to vary in a haphazard manner , but that they show no marked monthly variation of the type exhibited by the figul.es in all the other columns .
It seems , therefore , that the effect of the mean temperature gradient , which reduces the turbulence at 300 metres in the winter and allows it to increase in the summer , does not have any marked effect on the mean amount of turbulence near the ground .
This must be governed almost entirely by wind velocity , which shows no marked monthly variation , and by the nature of the ground .
On the other band , it will be seen later that the daily variation in temperature gradient near the groumd has a very marked effect on the turbulence near the ground .
Identity of found Tcmperature ements with found from surements .
On at column 1 , Table II , it will be seen that the mean value of for the turbulence over aris , as calculated from the Eiliel Tower temperature measurements , is about .
It was pointed out on p. 138 that the mean value of for the turbulence over Salisbury Plain , calculated from wind-velocity measurements , is about .
It is to be Turbulence in the ) ) Atmosphere .
expected , from the nature of the ground , that the turbulence over Paris would be greater than the turbulence over Salisbury Plain .
Quite recently , since finishing the work described above , I have seen a between tottom oTower tcient o viscosity of the atmosphere due to turbulence .
This quantity , which is , of conse , equal to , was foumd to be about C.G.S. units in the winter and 115 in the ) .
Akerblom finds , therefore , the value of in the of the Eiffel Tower is greater in the summer than in viuter , but the difference is considerably less thau that indicated in the column of Table II .
The meanl value for is ivon by Dr. Akerblom as C.G.S. uuits .
as , the value of over Paris , calculated from wind-velocity measurements , is therefore ) , or C.G.S. units .
The agreement between this and the value of obtained from temperature measurement is quite as good as could } ) ossibly ) expected , when it is remembered that neither kerblom 's nor the present 's equations are rigidly applicable umder the conditions which actually occur in the atmosp here .
It is sufliciently , at any rate , to provide a satisfactory confirmation of the theory that momentum and heat are transmitted by the same ency , and that the behaviour of the lower atmosphere in regard to heat transmission can be calculated from observations of the retardation of the lower layers of the earth 's atmosphere by the friction of the ground .
Daily Variation in We seen how a study of the change in wind velocity with and of diurnal variation in temperature leads to a of the amount of turbulence in the atmosphere near the round .
We have seen , also , much the turbulence is reduced in ths winter by the smaller average temperature gradient which is characteristic of that part of the year .
So far , however , no mention has been made of what is by far th ' , most noticeable feature of the meteorological elf'ects of the turbulence of the lower atmosphere , namely , the daily variation of wind velocity .
The remainder of the will be devoted to discussing this variation .
It will be shown that the knowledge which had been ooained turbulence is sufficient to explain all the facts recent observations have brought to light concerning the daily variation in wind velocity at various heights above the ground and at various seasons of year .
It is well known that the wind near the is usually less * F. kerblom , ' Nov. Act .
Soc. Scient Upsala , VOL. XCIV.\mdash ; A. .
G. I. Taylor .
Phenomena Connected with than it is in the day time .
Observations taken on mountains and on that at comparatively small heights above the earth this variation in wind velocity is much less than it is quite close to the ! .
The Eiffel Tower observations show that at a height of 1000 feet the daily variation in wind velocity is reversed , so that it has a maximum at and a minimum during the day .
Quite recently the diurnal variation in wind velocity has been made the subject of an elaborate series of observations by Dr. Hellmann .
* A brief lescription of his results will form the best introduction to the more theoretical discussion which will follow later .
In a piece of meadow-land Dr. Hellmann set up three anemometers at of 2 , 16 , and 32 metres above the round , and the results of one year 's obseryations are dealt with i-n his paper .
During periods when strong winds were blowing , all three anemometers ed a maximum velocity in the middle of the day and a minimum during the .
The daily variation in light winds was of a different ) aracter .
At 2 metres there was a maximum in the day and a minimum at night .
At 16 and 32 metres , however , there were maxima in the middle of the day , and also the middle of ) , with minima } the morning an afternoon .
At 16 metres these two maxima were about equal , while at 32 metres the night maximum was greater than the day maximum .
On examining the seasonal effect , it was found that there was a distinct tendency in for the day maximum at 16 metres to be greater than the maximum , while in the winter the two maxima were about equal .
These results are shown graphically by means of in figs. 2 and 3 .
It will be seen that in winds the at which the and llaxima are equalis about 16 metres in ' and between 16 and 32 metres iu summer .
At greater heights the wind is greatest in the middle of the night , while at smaller heights it is greatest in the middle of the day .
This change in the type of the daily variation in wind velocity will be referred to as a reversal Dr. Hellmann 's results are confirmed by his analysis of the variation in wind at the observatory at Potsdam , where the anemometer is placed ab a of 41 melres above the ground .
In fig. 4 is shown the variation in wind velocity for and for strong winds in the summer and in the winter .
It will be seen that for strong winds bhe maximum occurs in the middle of the day , at all times of the year .
In the case of winds there * ' ' Uber die Bewegung der Luft in den untersten Schichten der Atmosphare Meteorologischc ZeitschIift , ' January , 1915 .
Mr. G. I. omencx Connected with two eHects , and in order that an increase in the velocity of wind close to the result from an increase in the amount of the vertical currents , it is necessary to assume that the structure of the vertical currents is such that the increase in velocity due to the extra influx of momentum fro1n above is than the decrease due to the extra outHow of momentum into the round .
It has been shown by the present writer revious paper* tlJat , with a iven amount of eddy motion and a given pressure radiant , there is a certain distribution of wind velocity near the ound , which ists as a steady state when the system has been established long for the of the initial conditions to have died away .
In the Espy-Koppen theory no is taken of the steady state .
In the present paper , on the other hand , it will be assumed that the distribution of irld velocity in the lower atmosphere at any time is the distribution which would result from gradient velocity and turbulence which exist at that time if steady state had been reached .
This is equivalent to thaG the lagt of the variation in wind ] ocity behind the variation in turbulence which gives rise to it is shall .
That this is sufficiently near the for our purpose is shown by the fact that the maxima in wind velocity occur about the middle of the day , at a time when the turbulence might be expected to be at its maximum .
It be shown that a daily variation in turbulence , an amount which light have been expected from our previous of the subject , is sufficient to explain qualitatively\mdash ; and also , in a rough way , all the known characters of the daily variation in wind velocity .
We have seen that the effect of turbulence on the of velocity in the lower ) ends on a certain quantity , which can be as a rlnmber which cxprcsses the amount of turbulence .
It has been shown also that the mean of wind velocity in the lowel layer of the atmosphere is very nearly the same as that in an ideal atmosphere in which is constant at all heights .
We shall therefore find how the wind velocity at various heights vould vary in the ideal case its remains constant and is constant at all heights a dally in magnitude .
' this purpose it is necessary take of the fact that the force of wind over the is proportional to the square of The magnitude of the frictional force has even calculatod for Salisbury .
It was over the grassy land of hich Salisbury is composed , the frictional force , is dd.v Motion in tl \ldquo ; ' Phil. Trans , vol. 215 ( 1915 ) . .
Turbulence in the where is the wind velocity close to the round , and is the density of the this value for it be that , ( 5 ) here c is the angle between the wind at the ground level and the gradient ection , is the gradient velocity , is the coefficient of eddy diffusion ead.v referred to , and is equal to where is the angular 1 elocity of rotation of the earth , which is ically equal to , and is the latitude of the place in question , which in the case of is N. , so that quation ( may be transformed into .
form , Hence values of may therefore be ) for series of values of are given in IN .
Since depends only on , it be implel .
to consider the variations in wind velocity at various when B rather than undergoes a daily ariation ; but since the numerical value of Ie has been measured in several CclSeS already , it is convenient to have TabIe relationship lIetween and .
The quantity is a function of , and its lues are given in the last column of Table Table III may now be used in ] conjun ction with the equations iven on .
and 16 of " " Eddy Motion in the Atmosphere to find the wind velocity at any height for a iven gradient velocity and a given value of h- .
numerical work is laborious , the can be shown simply of a sel.ies of curyes .
These curves are shown in .
The represent the wind velocity as fractions of the gradient , while the ordinates resenb the quantity represents the height above the ound .
If the curves be ivine the variation in wind height , the scalc of the ordinates will ) on the gradient velocity .
scales of in metrcs have on the right-hand side of tho figure , corresponding with two radiant velocities of and metres ) second , which correspond the classes ' light\ldquo ; and " " strong\ldquo ; winds for which mean values of have been calculated .
" " Eddy Motion in the Atnlosphel.e , \ldquo ; lo .
cit. , p. 15 .
, p. 16 . .
Proc 92 , p. 198 ( 1916 ) . .
G. I. Taylor .
Connected with Each of the curves in fig. lepresents the distribution of wind velocity at various heights with a iven value of and .
When a daily variation , the daily variation in wind velocity is given by the variation in the nbscissae of the different curves for a fixed ordinate .
In order to simplify the application of the curves in another set of , shown in fig. 6 , has been constructed from them .
These represent the variation in wind velocity at a given height when varies owing to the variations in K. Each curve represents the variation value of for a iven value of when varies from to An inspection of the curves of shows that the daily variation in will account for the character of the daily variation in wind at different heights .
Suppose , for instance , that the value of varies in such a way that at midday and at .
At heights above that at which the wind be at a maximum at and at a minimum at midday .
At heights for which is equal to or less than 1 there is a maximum at nlidday and a lnininltm at midnight .
all intermediate heights are two maxima , one at midday and the other at midnight .
When the maxima at midday and at midnight are about equal for particulalange of we have chosen .
several characteristics of the daily variation in wind velocity which this theory indicates are shown in .
In this figure the value of has been assumed to vary in a uous manner so that it is a maximum at lnidday and minimum at eurve represents the variation .
155 about 32 metres in the summer .
In the case of stronlg winds there was reversal in the first ) metres .
In the case of Potsdam observations , it was found that the of the reyersal was less than 41 metres for light winds and for strong winds .
In the of light winds in summer , there is a lnaximum at midday at Potsdam , but it is smaller than the maximum hich occurs at midnight .
[ appears , a result of these calculations , that variation in ] by an amount which fits in well with all the other known data the , turbulent motion of the air near the is sufficient to explain , both qualitatively and quantitatiyely , all the facts of wind velocity at different heights above the which are brought to by Dr. Hellmann 's observationh .
he chary of Pressu L. , B.Sc. , Communicated Strutt , Rcccived Ssptember Introduction .
This work was ndertaken , following up a suggestion made by De St. Venanb and Wantzel in 1839 stated , as a result of their eriments , that when gas was discharged through au olifice from a vessel which the essure was , into one in which the pressure , then the of was setslbly constant from upwards to or , but hcn , as fulther increases , the dischalge falls off , slowl at first , afterwards with great rapidity .
In 188 Osborne eynolds quoted some experiments which seemed to bhow that the flow remained constant from or explained this by out that the maximum " " reduced velocity\ldquo ; occurs when the actual velocity coincides with that of sound under the conditions then prevailing , as then the effect of a reduction of pressure in recipient vessel cannot be propagated backwards ainst the stream .
lf this argument suggests that a nozzle abrupbly at narrowest part , the discharge reaches a maximum when the pressure in the 'Phil .
Mag vol. 32 , p. 178 ( 1916 .
)

