[ 819 ] \#163 ; VIH .
Experimental Researches into the Functions of the , * J. S. Risien Russell , M.D. , M.R.C , Assistant Physician to the Metropolitan Hospital .
Communicated by Professor V. Horsley , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1893 , \#151 ; Read January 25 , 1894 .
( From the Pathological Laboratory of University College , London .
) CONTENTS .
Introduction . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Account of previous experimental researches ... ... ... ... ..* .
* .
Operative procedure ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Objects and plan of research ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
( ?
) Objects of research ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
( ?
) Plan of research ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .* * : * ' Part I. Median vertical section separating the two lateral halves of the cerebellum from each other ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Part II .
Extirpation of one lateral lobe . . .
\#166 ; . . .
| . .
* j Part III .
Removal of one half of the organ ... ... ... ... . .
* * / Part IV .
One or other of the last two methods of procedure as a preliminary , and subsequent comparative investigation of the excitability of the two cerebral hemispheres ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
" .
* " PartV .
Similar preliminaries , followed by intravenous injections ot absinthe ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..* Part VI .
Removal of both lateral lobes of the cerebellum . . .
Part VII .
Extirpation of the whole or half of the posterior part o t e middle lobe ... ... ... ... ... ... . . .
* * * Part VIII .
Ablation of the whole organ ... ... ... ... Part IX .
Control experiments on the labyrinth and eighth nerve V. Certain general considerations . . . . . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... rI .
Conclusions , and their discussion .
... ... ... ... ... ... .
* .
* Page .
n apology is necessary for my having undertaken this i esearch investigations which have so recently been published by Luciani , canno * \#166 ; ' expenses of tide investigation have been defrayed by a grant from the Scientific Grants Le British Medical Association .
__ " " 27.11.94 .
m 820 DR. J. s. RISIEN RUSSELL ON EXPERIMENTAL more patent to any one than to myself .
I feel sure , however , that my apology ^ accepted , when it is remembered how far from settled are many of the connected with the functions of the cerebellum .
Probl % I am prompted to publish the results of my investigations , partly because so tiv of them are in complete accord with those of Luciani , arid partly because man | the points which have engaged my attention have not been taken up by him indeed , by any other experimental physiologist , as far as I am aware .
It is once more my pleasant task to express how deeply indebted I am to Profe^ Victor Horsley , for his kindness in allowing me to carry out this investigation the Pathological Laboratory at University College , to thank him for many valu^ suggestions , and for the criticisms my results have met with , from to time , ay hands .
To Professor Hubert Boyce I owe a debt of gratitude in connection with foae researches in which I have been engaged at University College , but at no timtia the debt been so great as on the present occasion .
He has not only given mth benefit of his criticisms , but has brought to my notice facts , the outcome of hisw investigations in the cat , which have had a direct bearing on the problems which av occupied my attention , and have aided in their elucidation .
II .
HISTORICAL ACCOUNT OF PREVIOUS EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATION The earliest experimental investigations into the functions of the cerebellum ee to have been those of Saucerotte* who , from experiments on four dogs , condds that the muscles of the back , neck , and eyes are innervated from the cerebellumai that the central part of this organ causes acuteness of feeling throughout the kl Forty years later Rolando , + after a large number of experiments , attributed ttl cerebellum a direct influence on movement , considering it the source of origin ; movements , and its mode of action comparable to that of a voltaic pile , as Riiih previously surmised .
Foville and Pinel-Grandchamp , ; ( from clinical observation , and from elements , concluded that the cerebellum is the seat of sensibility .
In 1824 Flouen advanced a theory with regard to the function of the cerebellum which differed a all previous surmises and from all theories the outcome of former experiments Qi His theory was based on experimental observations , and attributed to the cerebh the power of co-ordinating voluntary movements generated by other parts c t nervous system .
* Saucerotte , ' Prix de l'Academie Royale de Chirurgie , ' 1769 , vol. 4 .
+ Rolando , ' Saggio sopra la vera struttura del cervello , ' \amp ; c. , Sassari , 1809 .
X Foyille and Pinel-Grandchamp , * Sir le siege special de di\#163 ; E6rentesfonctions du systems Paris 1823 .
' . .
v S Flourens , * Recherches Exper .
sir les Prop , et les Fonct .
du Syst. Nerv .
, Paris , 1824 , p. .
researches into the functions of the cerebellum .
endie# found that the animal rotated to the side of the lesion when the peduncle was divided , but that no rotation occurred when both middle [ es were divided .
The eye on the same side as a unilateral lesion , turned strds and forwards , while that of the opposite side turned upwards and back- .
but they returned to their normal positions when the opposite peduncle 30 divided .
On dividing the cerebellum in the middle line , the animal if between two opposed forces , and the eyes were in a state of extraordinary \#187 ; n. LLAUD+ agreed with Flourens that the faculty of co-ordinating the move-of walking , running , flying , \amp ; c. , resides in the cerebellum ; but he could not dth him in his belief that this organ co-ordinates all voluntary movements , conclusions were the outcome of a series of experiments on dogs , rabbits .
and fowls , the cautery being used to inflict various lesions of the cerebellum e animals , all of whom exhibited disorders of the locomotor functions , and libra tion .
jbensJ experimenting on pigeons and other birds , removed successively deeper jper layers to the cerebellum , and found that removal of the most superficial resulted only in slight feebleness and want of harmony in the movements .
As layers were removed , universal agitation , without any sign of convulsion , i , all movements being performed abruptly and irregularly .
As still deeper were removed , the power of springing , flying , walking , and standing upright more and more altered , and , at last , completely lost .
When placed on their he birds were unable to get up , and they were in an almost constant state of citation .
The will , sensation , and perception were intact ; there was no \#187 ; n of sight and hearing .
The possibility of performing combined movements ed ; but the co-ordination of these movements was lost .
Similar experiments cerformed on certain mammals , and , as in birds , resulted in disharmony of ovements proportional to the amount of the organ removed , and with total \#187 ; n of the organ there was complete loss of the faculty of regulating move-The movements , disordered by the cerebellar lesions , corresponded to all the d movements .
In birds which flew , it was in the flight that the disorder first fed ; in those that walk , it was in the gait ; and in those which swim , in the aing .
Flourens accordingly concluded that the cerebellum is the centre for ?
-ordination of voluntary movements .
A-Tiolet and LevenS made a very small opening in the bone , and then made a al section into the centre of the lateral lobe , by means of a sharp needle .
The ajendie , ' Journ. de PRys .
, ' 1824 , vol. 4 , p. 399 .
ouillmjd , * Arch. General , de Med. , ' 1827 , 15 , p. 64 .
loxjrens , ' Recherches Experimental es sur les Proprietes et les Fonctions du Syst\amp ; me Nerveux .
2nd .
Ed. , p. 37 .
Imtioeet and Leven , 'Comptes Rendns , ' 1860 , vol , 51 , p. 917 .
animal instantly rotated towards that side , and the trunk was curved in the sa direction ; the opposite eyeball was displaced forward and upward , while that on same side was displaced downward and backward .
There was no sign of hemipW and sensibility was intact .
The symptoms were recovered from in a few days .
Dalton* appears to have been the next experimental physiologist whose attend was directed to the cerebellum .
He found that pigeons were neither able to st\#171 ; t walk , or fly after removal of large portions of the cerebellum , and that they \gt ; re only capable of making confused and ineffectual struggles .
He did not consider ^ any debility or partial paralysis existed ; and found that after a time the powt o ' muscular co-ordination was restored .
The only abnormal symptom which rems^ was a moderate general debility , which was only noticeable when the birds unusual exertion .
In fighting , the movements were well directed , though wantii ; ii force .
Dalton supposed that the irregularity of motion could only be accoite for by supposing it to he in someway the effect of the sudden injury to the are helium as a whole , rather than the simple loss of a part of its substance .
Leven and Ollivier , !
in the following year , published their experimentaan other observations on this subject .
They passed a well-tempered steel needle thwg the skulls of guinea pigs , and in one series of experiments wounded the cerehlu alone , while in another series they also injured the bulb .
In lesions limited 1 tl cerebellum , the symptoms passed off in a few days .
Ordinary sensibility an tl organs of special sense were not affected ; there was never vomiting or diarrhea n was the appetite impaired , or emaciation observed .
The motor phenomena corst in rotation to the opposite side from the lesion , " circus movements ' towards tl si the lesion , bending of the head on the trunk , incomplete hemiplegia , slowrss of progression , \amp ; c. The trunk was curved , there was general muscular enfeebkie sometimes a tendency to be drawn towards the opposite side from the lesio , a strabismus with , sometimes , corneal affection of the squinting eye .
series of experiments , in which the bulb was injured in addition to the cerellk does not call for description in this paper , which is intended to deal with uncni| cated cerebellar lesions .
\ _ jjj Kenz4 next experimented on fishes , and concluded that the cerebellum *8 organ for co-ordinating spontaneous movements , and that it exercised an ua a influence over the sense of sight .
The next year this observer published the * of a more extended investigation , when he found that partial extirpation o t helium resulted in partial loss of the power of regulating movements , whil t\lt ; ablation caused loss of power of co-ordination , without affecting '"telhgence , ll perception and motor power .
Lesions of the anterior part of the middle lobe- , a tendency to fall forward , and lesions of the centre or posterior par o * Dalton , \#171 ; Amer .
Joorn .
of Med. Sc. , ' 1861 , vol. 41 , p. 83 .
t Leven and Ollitiee , .
Arch. G4n .
de JKd .
, ' 1862 , . .
2 , vol. xxv " p. 513 i 1863 , s. 6 , vol. 1 Renzi , ' Annal .
Univ , d. Med. , ' 1863 , vol. 185 , p. 486 ; 1864 , vol. 187 , p. 47 , researches into the functions OF THE CEREBELLUM .
823 1 a tendency to fall backward .
A lesion of one lateral lobe was followed by to the opposite side , while the head was turned to the side of the lesion , and bation was in that direction when a peduncle was its seat .
Successive lesions h. peduncles resulted in shaking of the head .
These results led .Renzi to le that the cerebellum is indispensable for the regulation of locomotion , and exercises an influence on vision by regulating the co-ordinated voluntary moveqnson , # in the following year , published the results of a series of investigations , nd that fish lost their balance , became less active , and did not survive total q of the cerebellum .
Snakes presented failure of lateral balance , and when the connections were left on one side , they twisted into a corkscrew shape and id. Frogs showed no appreciable defect , except that when one side connections Livided , the opposite limbs were slightly weaker ; and in the toad the only s result was a peculiar stilted manner of using the legs .
Tortoises walked stilted gait , and showed lessened activity ; and when the attachment on one as undivided , the hind leg of the opposite side retained its normal muscular nd activity , while the three other limbs were affected as if the whole organ had emoved .
Guinea-pigs and rabbits lost the power of walking , motor power more impaired in the posterior than in the anterior extremities ; they also d from giddiness or loss of balance .
Pigeons staggered and fell back or to one ; first , and as successive slices were removed , total loss of motor power and [ ally death resulted .
rtion of the cerebrum and cerebellum in snakes resulted in death ; but when rebrum alone was removed movements of a peculiar kind persisted .
The head 3 longer held erect , and the head and neck were pushed along by the move-of the trunk .
A frog deprived of its cerebrum and cerebellum walked slowly ith difficulty as if the limbs were heavy , especially the fore-legs , and died the night ; while one whose cerebrum alone was removed , lived two days , and 1 with considerable vigour , but did not hop .
It swam with general and regular cents .
The same results were obtained with the water tortoise ; if the cerebellar ctions were left intact on one side , the movements of the opposite limbs were free than of those of the same side .
3Kinson concluded that the cerebellum exercised a continuous automatic action , ially on the posterior extremities , producing even and balanced movements , lateral half has a bilateral effect , but chiefly a unilateral crossed one ; and ion sensation , the special senses , the action of involuntary muscles and reflex nients , are unaffected by ablation of the organ .
JLPiAjsrt produced unilateral lesions of the cerebellum in pigeons and rats , which \gt ; ickinson , 'Brit , and For .
Med. Chir .
Rev. , ' 1865 , vol. 36 , p. 455 ; 'Boston M. and S. Jour .
, ' 1865 , 237 .
ftiLHAN , ' Lemons sir la Phys. Gen. et Comp , dn Syst. Nerv .
, ' 1886 , p. 603 .
OCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 5 N caused ataxy of movements .
He met with hemiplegia , after such lesions , 0i exceptionally , and then it was sometimes on the same side as the cerebellar lesi ' and at other times on the opposite side .
Instinct and intelligence remained intaci Weir Mitchell* irritated the cerebellum , mechanically , by chemical ag^ and by cold , in pigeons , rabbits , and guinea-pigs .
Motor functions alone suffe# and were commonly re-established within a few hours to ten days .
Wools of the deep lateral portions , involving the middle peduncles , caused rotation^ the long axis , and , like most deep cerebellar lesions , produced squints , thep this was not the case in birds .
Mechanical irritation , deep enough to'give| to obvious effects , caused a tendency to move or fall to one side , or a geira want of balance , with abruptness and jerkiness of movement , as if weakness m excitation of muscles were combined .
Torsion of the neck on the spine was n*ed and in grave lesions of the posterior region m birds the head was drjfjflp fjl Freezing the superior and posterior regions caused backward movements .
OpacVt the cornea was observed in guinea-pigs and rabbits , usually on the side marked squint .
There was never loss of sight .
This same experimenter succeed !
i keeping pigeons alive after destruction of large portions of the cerebellum , sometm almost the whole of the organ .
The only permanent change detected wai incapacity for prolonged exertion ; they became tired more readily fht^ftup| pigeons .
Sensation , emotion , and the generative functions were unaffected .
te Mitchell considered the cerebellum a great reinforcing organ , capable of heingac or less used in voluntary muscular movements .
* j^K|| FEKEiER'st researches , which were published seven years later , are too well to in this country to require a detailed description ; and , in so far as the majority oik dealt with the results of excitation of different parts of the cerebellum , while m o investigations have been directed towards attempting to elucidate the prole involved when ablation of the organ is performed , allusion will only be madejstt cases in which Ferrier destroyed parts of the cerebellum .
A red-hot wire w. u to destroy the posterior part of the middle lobe in a monkey , w ic gav*f tendency for the animal to fall backwards .
In another monkey the surface posterior lobule of the left side was similarly destroyed to the depth of inch .
The animal tended to fall backward and to the right ; " but this mo\#174 ; was sometimes so strong , and combined with spinal rotation , as to cause the to roll over on its left side .
" This author looked on the cerebellum as a cl arrangement of individually differentiated centres , which m associated action the various muscular adjustments necessary to maintain equi i num Hj of the body ; each tendency to the displacement of the equilibrium round a ho*-vertical , or intermediate axis acting as a stimulus to the special centre , wh .
into play the antagonistic or compensatory action .
* Weir Mitchell , ' Amer .
Joum .
of Med. Sc./ 1869 , J ) ' .
flj , , 1876 t Feeriee , .
The Functions of the Brain/ 2nd Ed. , 1886 , p. 174 ; 1st Ed. , 1876 .
researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
825 same year Nothnagel# recorded the result of mechanical excitation of the m a needle being used as the excitor , and both the vermis and lateral lobes ing to this mode of stimulation when the pricks were superficial .
In the case Lateral lobe , or half of the vermis , motor phenomena resulted first on the same the body and afterwards extended to the opposite side , while excitation of the line of the vermis gave rise to motor phenomena on both sides of the body , sater part of a lobe , and the whole anterior and upper part of the vermis , could irbed without the animals betraying any symptom the whole day , while dis-e of a limited part of the , vermis gave rise to motor disorders in conformity e picture drawn by Flourens .
A.Nit was the first who succeeded in keeping mammals alive for any length of ter ablation of the cerebellum .
Symptoms of irritation were noticed during i few weeks in the dogs operated on , and consisted in contractions and spasms , afterwards disappeared .
Unsteadiness and titubation persisted until death , bough walking was either impossible , or performed very unsteadily , the animals vim almost like normal dogs .
" Heat " was manifested , and when coitus was pregnancy followed , and parturition took place in due course .
The mental s were intact , the emotions were naturally displayed , as were the maternal , s. One animal was the subject of otitis , conjunctivitis , joint affections , arid marasmus during the latter part of its existence , and eventually died ; but r remained in excellent health , gaining weight , and was ultimately killed , same observer has more recently added very largely to our knowledge of the ns of the cerebellum by the publication of the results of his extensive investiga-n the dog and monkey .
XHe discusses the subject under five headings snomena of irritation ; ( 2 ) phenomena of deficiency ; ( 3 ) those of compensation ; se of degeneration ; and ( 5 ) trophic phenomena .
keys differ from dogs chiefly in that the symptoms were less severe and more y , and in that tonic flexion of the limbs was present , where , under similar stances in the dog , tonic extension was present .
Lsion of the cerebellum into two lateral halves by a mesial incision , was attended xt to no irritative symptoms , there being , however , some inco-ordination , extension of the fore limbs existed , but at the autopsy , meningitis was found , sncy symptoms consisted in a want of energy and a diminution of muscular tone , ensation was very complete .
The author concluded that the cerebellum is ^logically one organ , whose functions are seriously interfered with if it is divided wo halves .
- middle lobe was destroyed in four dogs and two monkeys , and resulted othnagel , * Centralbl .
f. d. Med. Wissenscbaft .
, ' 1876 , vol. 14 , p. 387 .
ticiANi , 'Lin .
gen .
del .
Fisiol .
del Cervel .
, Prim .
Mem. , ' Firenze , 1884 .
See also Workman , list\gt ; and Neurologist , ' July , 1885 .
uciana , ' U Cervelleto ; Nuov .
Stud .
d. Fisiol .
Norm , e Patol .
, ' Firenze , 1891 .
826 DR. J. S. RISIEN RUSSELL ON EXPERIMENTAL in general unsteadiness , strabismus , spasm of the muscles of the neck , tonic extensk of the fore limbs in dogs , and tonic flexion in monkeys ; all of which persisted about week .
Asthenia , atonia , and astasia , especially of the muscles of the poster^ extremities , lasted about a fortnight , and compensation resulted in all cases .
Extirpation of one lateral lobe gave rise to curving of the trunk towards the sidef the lesion , tonic extension of the anterior extremity on the same side , rotation on % animal 's long axis towards the opposite side ; and the globes deviated towards :e opposite side .
There was asthenia , atonia , and astasia of the muscles of the same %e as the lesion .
Compensation took place gradually .
There was temporary glycosda in several cases .
Ablation of half the organ was followed by curving of the trunk towards the sky the lesion , rotation on the animal 's long axis towards the opposite side , tonic extent in the dog , and flexion in the monkey , of the fore limb of the same side as the lesn sometimes the hind limb being similarly affected , strabismus and nystagng Asthenia , atonia , and astasia of the muscles on the side of the lesion were obsend and compensation was not complete , a certain residuum of these symptoms of defickc ; remaining , and pointing to the fact that the other half of the cerebellum is unab t take on the whole of the functions of the half removed .
Temporary polyuria\#174 ; glycosuria existed in two monkeys .
Destruction of one lateral lobe , in animals that had been previously depwe of their middle lobe , evoked symptoms which did not differ materially from thoseh ?
have just been detailed . .
The symptoms which resulted on ablation of the whole organ differed oh degree from those produced by destruction of the middle lobe , being of gmt intensity , longer duration , and wider diffusion .
Unilateral , or bilateral , destruction of the sigmoid gyrus , after ablation of the -r bellum , caused the deficiency phenomena to be more pronounced and to persist tJ animal being unable to walk without support nearly a year after the operate , that the author concluded that compensation is brought about by the sensori-iot region of the cerebrum after ablation of the cerebellum .
jJfcLl The chief general conclusions come to by Luciani are that the cerebellum , tk an organ of bilateral function , differs from the cerebrum in having a direct andol crossed action .
Its influence is exerted on all voluntary muscles , and not ow those concerned with posture and locomotion ; and this influence is of the a sthenic , tonic , and static neuro-muscular process .
All parts of the organ same function , i.e. , it is not composed of centres functionally different from eac and presiding over different groups of muscles .
The middle lobe is consi ere ^ no greater functional value than the lateral ones .
The organ transmits a ( tm indirect trophic action by its efferent paths .
The sensorial perturbation co specially of different forms of vertigo , the motor of various aberrations o move^ which cause inco-ordination ; while polyuria , glycosuria , acetonuna , an rapi |p in weight are expressions of the trophic disturbance .
researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
827 cerebellum is looked on as a coadjutor and reinforcer of the great cerebro-gystem , its action being considered quite different from the action of all other \gt ; f the nervous system .
Deficiency of the organ is attended by asthenia , atonia , tasia , while absolute or partial paralysis of motion and sensation attends similar ncy of other parts of the nervous system .
Luciani contends that the differ-3 due to the fact that the cerebellum forms a small system , relatively inde-it , defects of which do not interfere with the passage of centripetal and centri-mpulses passing between the cerebrum and the periphery ; and to the other hat it does not dominate over any territory exclusively reserved to itself , and ntemporaneously under the influence of the cerebro-spinal system .
Lastly , the y between the action of the cerebellum and the intervertebral ganglia is d on , both the direct and indirect trophic actions being instanced as strikingly me ; and to complete the parallelism , the reinforcing action of the intervertebral a on the anterior roots , and on the muscles they innervate , is insisted on as Dling closely the sthenic , tonic , and static action of the cerebellum .
III .
OPERATIVE PROCEDURE .
ill cases in which the animal was to be allowed to live after the operation , the of the head and neck were first shaved , thoroughly cleansed with soap and , and finally washed with perchloride of mercury lotion ( 1-1000 ) .
The skin \gt ; n adopted in all the later experiments consisted in a single longitudinal cut in cliddle line of the back of the head and neck , as this was found perfectly ent to allow of complete exposure of the deeper parts , even where the whole dlum was to be removed .
In my earlier experiments I was in the habit of ag an additional incision transversely outward from the upper end of the fcudinal incision , either on one or both sides , according to whether a unilateral Lateral lesion of the cerebellum was to be subsequently produced , and the skin-burned downward and outward on one or both sides , as the case might be .
This which was attended with considerably more haemorrhage , was afterwards rded for the simpler and quite as effective method of exposing the deeper parts ie single incision .
hichever of the skin incisions was employed in no way affected the subsequent se of the operation , which differed only according to whether the whole or part ie cerebellum was to be removed .
An incision was made along the middle line he depth of the cervical spines ; the muscles were then cut and scraped away 1 their attachments to the curved lines and adjacent depressions , on one or both a\gt ; 9,8 the case might be , then working from the middle line outwards they were i and scraped away from their attachments to the spines and arches of the uppei deal vertebra .
It is very important to work from the middle line outward , as by s means much troublesome haemorrhage is avoided , as also obtains when very little catting is done , tearing and scraping being relied on to Free the bony parts of tb .
soft coverings .
The unavoidable loss of blood which attends the subsequent sta of the operation makes it necessary that as much haemorrhage should be avoided^ possible in the earlier stages .
When I first commenced these operations I was i the habit of trephining the occipital bone with a quarter-inch trephine , over one c other lateral lobe of the cerebellum , and then enlarging the opening , to any extei required , by means of bone forceps ; but latterly the trephine was entirely discards the bone forceps alone being used to effect an opening into the cranial cavity , p to this stage in the operation perchloride of mercury lotion ( 1-1000 ) was used wash the wound , and was supplemented from time to time , as occasion require by hot water ( about 100 ' F. ) that had been boiled , with a view to checking at* oozing ; but from this point nothing but boiled normal saline solution was us| to wash out the wound and to arrest bleeding .
During the removal of the boM an aseptic wax was employed to check the bleeding from the sinuses in it , The no ; step consisted in opening the membranes , and turning aside a flap of the dura mar which covered the part whose extirpation was intended .
By means of a sharp , th~ bladed knife , the part to be excised was delimited from the rest of the organ , al was then carefully scooped out by means of a small , sharp spoon .
In scooping \#171 ; t the portion of cerebellum , full advantage was taken of the bony tentorium , and evty care was taken not to press on or injure the medulla , or the pyramidal tracta little below this point .
All the scraping was done either from below , direcy upwards against the bony tentorium , or downwards and outwards , against the basoi the posterior fossa , and never either directly downwards or inwards .
Syringing at the cavity with hot , normal , salt solution ( about 100 ' F. ) was resorted to , both s a means of checking the bleeding and of clearing out all debris .
The external wound was then carefully sponged with perchloride of mercury Ion ( 1-1000 ) , and closed by means of aseptic horsehair sutures , a small portion of \#171 ; most dependent part of the wound being left open to allow of drainage .
The woil were dressed antiseptically , and seldom failed to unite by primary union .
In the experiments in which the comparative excitability of the two cerebral hoi spheres was tested , an opening was effected into the cranial cavity by means of Ip forceps , the air-cells being first opened and the bone over the motor areas bsii| subsequently removed with great care , so as to avoid , as far as possible , undufrp*3 sure on the cortex .
| .
r In those instances in which curves were obtained from the extensor muscles o \#187 ; fore limbs , the tendons of these muscles were exposed and all included together in m ligature , the tendons being subsequently divided on the distal side of the l^p-ti the muscles were then freed from their attachments to a considerable distance ip* limb , so as to allow them free play .
^ ?
When absinthe was administered , one or other external jugular vein was \#174 ; fp* in the neck , and varying doses of the essential oil injected into it in the direetio se the blood stream , by means of a hypodermic syringe .
researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
829 plan adopted in extirpating the labyrinth consisted in making a curved a commencing above , passing behind , and ending below the ear .
The flap of ith the pinna was then turned forward , all structures divided and scraped from ae for a short distance around .
The upper and posterior part of the meatus en enlarged by means of a gouge , and by degrees the middle ear and then the ith were cut into and cleared out .
en the 8th nerve was being exposed , the bulla was more freely denuded of its verings ; it was then opened by means of a gouge , after which its inner wall milarly cut through , until the nerve was exposed .
No appreciable length of rve could be exposed without lifting up the lateral lobe of the cerebellum , but 3rve could be divided without interfering with this structure .
This plan of ion was sometimes followed in extirpating the labyrinth .
)0th these methods of operating haemorrhage was profuse and troublesome , but lecked by the use of aseptic wax .
en the excitability of the cortex cerebri was tested , fine platinum electrodes , ed to the secondary coil of a du Bois-Reymond 's inductorium , supplied by a mate cell , were employed .
In some of the earlier experiments gold wire elec- , sheathed to their tips with paraffin paper , were substituted for the platinum Ddes .
ter was the anaesthetic employed in all cases , and the animal was kept profoundly its influence throughout the whole course of the operation .
In some instances , ich the operation was so unusually severe as to suggest the possibility that the il might be conscious of pain when the effect of the ether had passed off , this ihetic was supplemented by a hypodermic injection of morphia while the animal till under the influence of ether .
IY .
OBJECTS AND PLAN OF RESEARCH . .
( a. ) Objects of Research .
ie objects of the research were to determine as far as possible the following ; s:\#151 ; Whether each lateral half of the cerebellum is capable of acting independently , hetber it is necessary for the connections between the two halves to be intact , m v that the functions of the organ should be properly performed .
If impulses pass from one side of the organ to the other before they are trans-ed to the cerebrum or spinal cord .
What is the nature of the impairment of movement which results when portions the organ are removed . .
What relationship exists between one-half of the cerebellum and the cerebral-lisphere of the opposite side , and what is its probable nature .
'* Whether one lateral half of the cerebellum is related mainly to the same side of the spinal cord , to the opposite side , or to both ; and what the nature of the relate ship is .
6 .
Which symptoms resulting from experimental lesions of the cerebellum are me to be relied on for localisation .
7 .
Whether any , and , if so , which of the symptoms are dependent on interferes with the labyrinth or eighth nerve , when experimental lesions of the cerebellum ; 5 produced .
( b. ) Plan or Research .
The following experimental procedures were adopted in attempting to elucicte these various problems :\#151 ; 1 .
Median vertical section separating the two lateral halves of the cerebellum fc\#174 ; each other .
2 .
Extirpation of one lateral lobe .
3 .
Removal of one-half of the organ , i.eof one lateral lobe together with one lata half of the middle lobe .
4 .
One or other of the last two methods of procedure as a preliminary , and b sequent comparative investigation of the excitability of the two cerebral hemisphes 5 .
Similar preliminary methods as in the last instance , followed by the adm is tration of the essential oil of absinthe , and comparison of the effect of the resuln convulsions on the muscles of the two sides of the body .
6 .
Removal of both lateral lobes of the cerebellum .
7 .
Extirpation of the whole , or half , of the posterior part of the vermis .
8 .
Ablation of the whole organ .
9 .
Control experiments on the labyrinth and eighth nerve , which consisted in ( ?
) Extirpation of the labyrinth .
( ?
) Intracranial section of the auditory nerve .
( c ) Chemical irritation of the auditory nerve .
As the large majority of experiments were performed on dogs , and only afe supplementary ones on monkeys , the fprmer animals will alone engage our attew\lt ; at first , and the results obtained in the monkeys will be reserved for a separate u graph towards the latter part of the paper .
Part I.\#151 ; Median Vertical Section separating the two Lateral Halves of Cerebellum from each other .
So slight were the symptoms which resulted from this lesion to the cerebh that it was difficult , in fact impossible , to detect anything abnormal about the a\#187 ; forty-eight hours after the operation , with the exception of the wound whiel * been produced . .
While the animal was under the influence of the anaesthetic , nothing a researches into the functions of the cerebellum .
e detected in the way of squint or in alteration of the tendon reflexes ; nor ay thing abnormal be discovered in these directions when the animal recovered e effect of the anaesthetic .
The only symptom which resulted at all was the ightest possible inco-ordination , no traces of which could be detected forty-aurs after the operation .
So that although the connections between the two \gt ; f the organ were severed , each half appeared to be able to perform its own is without the co-operation of the other half , and as far as could be ascertained , bion was in abeyance in consequence of the two halves of the organ being no lirectly united .
e dog on whom this operation was performed , as soon as it recovered from the arcosis it was walking about like a normal dog , there being no more un-sss than in any dog so soon after recovery from the effects of a narcotic , .
are deviation could be detected .
Three or four hours after the operation a change was observed .
The left eye deviated to the left , that side of the id face was turned up while the right side was of course turned down , and lk was arched with its concavity to the right .
The left shoulder was raised ^h , and the elbow was rotated outwards , the tips of the digits alone touching and , and the movements of the limb in progression peculiarly stiff and stilted .
7s later these symptoms were still observed though only in very slight degree , wo days later still , next to no sign of them could be detected .
Here it was that the symptoms were not due to the primary lesion , but were the result of condary trouble , probably a little haemorrhage into the left half of the middle le dog there was a slight tendency to deviation of the eye downwards , but very slight and transitory ; beyond this , that particular animal presented r abnormal , with the exception , perhaps , of the slightest possible unsteadiness r after the operation .
It fought other dogs for food a few hours after it had ed from the anaesthetic .
Part II.\#151 ; Extirpation of one Lateral Lobe .
( See fig. 1 ) .
1 .
Immediate and transitory .
2 .
Late and permanent .
nediate Effects .
se may again be divided into two .
classes according as they occur ( a ) while the is still under the effects of the anaesthetic and ( ) after the effect of the ^etic has passed off .
ffects observed while the Animal is under the Influence of the Ancestlietic .
1 are deviation was always observed ; in some cases both lobes participated , in -CCXCIV.--B .
5 o which case a " skew deviation " resulted , the globe on the same side as the cerebe1 lesion being deviated upwards and outwards , while that on the opposite side directed downwards and outwards .
When only one globe deviated , it was al%S that on the opposite side to the cerebellar lesion , and the direction assumed was of a rotation outward , with a varying degree of downward rotation .
X have pointed out elsewhere* that the knee-jerks were altered in a remark* manner ; and this alteration took place in each instance .
The knee-jerk on the|i corresponding to the cerebellar lesion became very greatly exaggerated , so th , \lt ; single tap on the patella tendon sufficed to evoke clonus , and even tonus .
\ effect on the opposite knee-jerk was of an extremely different nature , for instei ( Fig. 1 .
Ablation of the Left Lateral Lobe of the Cerebellum in a Dog .
exaggeration there was diminution .
'That there was actual diminution of the:n jerk on this side was made more evident by the following experiment .
One hemisphere was first removed , and as a result of this the knee-jerk on th^aftK* side became increased .
Then the lateral lobe of the cerebellum was removed \gt ; same side as that on which the cerebral hemisphere had been removed ; the M tion in the opposite and previously increased knee-jerk was quite distinct . .
also had occasion to call attention to a curious ether effect which was obsetf this connection , for whereas the above results were those obtained during o moderate ether narcosis , the very reverse took place when the anaesthetic was ?
to the stage which closely precedes that in which the knee-jerks are abolish f * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1893 , vol. 53 , p. 430 .
researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
833 stage was approached , a gradual change took place in the state of the knee-hat on the same side as the cerebellar lesion , which was formerly exalted , depressed , while that on the opposite side , which was formerly diminished , !
exaggerated .
Effects observed after the Animal had recovered from the Influence of the , etic .
e varied considerably as to the degree of severity in different cases , and as to ie they persisted .
are Deviation , if observed as of the nature of a " skew deviation " while the was unconscious , rarely persisted as such for any length of time after nsness was restored .
The globe on the side corresponding to that of the [ are lesion quickly assumed its normal position , so that in a few hours , or at wenty-four hours , no deviation could be detected .
This was , however , not the th regard to the opposite eye-ball , which continued in its abnormal position s , but eventually recovered completely .
agmus is more or less constantly met with for a varying time after the on , sometimes only persisting for a day or two , at other times continuing for er period .
It was always lateral in direction , and consists in slow jerks A the side of the cerebellar lesion , which are more marked in the opposite or deviated eye ; e.g. , if the left lateral lobe of the cerebellum is removed , the iye is deviated to the right , and the nystagmoid jerks of both globes are from ; ht to the left .
or Phenomena.\#151 ; These depend on the extent of the lesion , but in complete al of one lateral lobe of the cerebellum , the animal is quite unable to stand for st few days , some animals recovering more rapidly than others .
This inability nd is due to a great extent to a paresis of the posterior extremities , and , to hter degree , of the anterior extremity of the same side as the lesion .
In pting to get up , the opposite limbs push the body over to the side of the limbs are chiefly paresed , and which are unable to support the weight of the animal , 'j consequently falls to the same side as the lesion .
This has to be carefully guished from the cerebellar reel , due to inco-ordination , and which , as will Yards be shown , is to the opposite side .
As the animal recovers , and is able to and walk , this paresis of the posterior extremities and of the anterior extremity i same side as the cerebellar lesion , is obvious .
The animal walks on a wide base the joints were stiff on that side , the extremities being moved like rigid pins , 1,8 ^ it were afraid to trust much of its weight to the extremities on the side of erebellar lesion .
The legs are moved as if they were inflexible , only the pointed 8 appear to touch the ground .
This mode of progression causes the animal to s-te from a straight course in walking , the deviation being to the opposite side , he extremities of which its chief weight appears to be thrown .
In the earlier 5 o 2 stages when it first begins to walk , and after the animal no longer reels ^ ever it falls it is to the same side as the lesion .
This is very noticeable in attem to walk upstairs , when the paresis is rendered very evident .
As further ' of this paresis on the side of the lesion , may be instanced the fact that in 0 % cases when the animal first commences to attempt to walk it always tries to ^ the side of the cerebellar lesion against the wall of the room , or some other f of support , whereas , as will presently be seen , they lie with the opposite supported at first in order to prevent the movements of rotation which we|\lt ; j otherwise occur .
Before leaving this part of the subject it may be well to refer to the condi)r known as " Circus movements , " in which the animal walks round and round with trunk curved , the concavity being towards the central axis round which it is walkb and its head and tail being thus approximated .
This was exceedingly rarely obsetei as an effect of lesions of the cerebellum , whereas it was a constant feature of lean of the labyrinth .
When it occurred in dogs with cerebellar lesions , it was alwai i those instances in which only a slight lesion had been effected , such as removal.1 small part of one lateral lob % after which the animals were able to walk about , h same day , though with considerable inco-ordination .
When it occurred , the ami always walked with the side of the lesion towards the central point around whit was walking , or in other words with the concavity of its arched trunk correspond to the side from which the portion of cerebellum had been removed .
Inco-ordination.-\#151 ; This is a marked feature of all cerebellar lesions , and its sevrii depends on the extent of the lesion .
After removal of one lateral lobe oft !
cerebellum , as has already been said , the animal is at first unable to get intcftl standing posture ; but as soon as it can do so , any attempts to walk are attends 1 reeling to the opposite side , provided the animal be able to walk soon enough ft the operation ; this reeling is very characteristic , and has to be carefully distinguih from the falling to the same side , as a result of what I take to be paresis , ac marked in the extremities of that side .
But before the animal is able to bi inco-ordination shows itself in the movements of the head on the trunk .
Thee great unsteadiness of the head , and any attempt at voluntary movement incw the unsteadiness .
This phenomenon is always aggravated by voluntary acts , sin attempts to lap , or to pick up food , and even when it is not present under ord\amp ; s circumstances some unusual excitement will elicit it .
Another marked symp which is however not always present , is that known as a " rotation fit , ift-\#174 ; the animal rotates rapidly on its longitudinal axis towards the opposite side tod from which the cerebellar lobe has been removed .
All the animals were not to present this symptom spontaneously ; but when it occurred it was very ith11 On one occasion it was artificially evoked ; a dog , who had not as far ^ presented any of these movements spontaneously , while being fed tried to swallow too large a piece ; this stuck in his pharynx aware greedily researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
835 \#171 ; i asphyxia , whereupon well-marked rotation movements immediately resulted , rare exceptions , these rotation movements are only observed during the first two after a lesion of the cerebellum ; but in one animal in whom they were at sry violent , and oft repeated , they persisted for nearly two weeks .
The rule , er , was that they were not observed after the first few days .
wry Phenomena.\#151 ; It is , of course , exceedingly difficult to be certain as to the state of sensibility in animals , and in my earlier experiments I could come to y satisfactory conclusion as to whether the animal had or had not any loss of lity , but by degrees it became more and more evident to me that there was lesia and analgesia after ablation of one lateral lobe of the cerebellum , and that the opposite anterior extremity appeared to escape , the other extremities were olved , though apparently in different degrees , the posterior extremity on the * the lesion being that most affected .
The tests employed were a wooden clip exerted very slight pressure , a metal clip which was painful , and cold water , always difficult to be certain of the results with the touch clip , but the results he cold water test were very much more definite , and those with the painful ost to be relied on .
Most of the animals were too lethargic to make it possible 3 to come to any conclusion with regard to sensation the first day after the ion ; but some that were less lethargic objected to the painful clip on the or extremity of the opposite side , while they took no notice of it on any of the extremities .
By the second or third day after the operation this result was it in most of the dogs , while in some no definite conclusion could be come to \ week after the operation , by which time loss of feeling , if present , was probably recovered from , so that anaesthesia could not be detected on so many extre-i .
But , as a rule , no matter how confused may have been the results in the early one thing comes out very clearly later , and that is , that the posterior extremity 3 same side as the lesion is the one which is last to recover .
The animal may lotice of cold water dropped on to all the other extremities , or the painful clip id to any of these , and yet take no notice of either , of these stimuli when they directed to the posterior extremity on the same side as the lesion .
As regards rder in which the other extremities recovered feeling , as a rule the posterior mity on the opposite side was the first to recover , but sometimes the anterior mity of the same side as the lesion appeared to be the first to do so .
The time nplete recovery varied in different animals , but in most , sensibility was restored ?
ht or ten days , though in some it was delayed beyond that time .
'ecial Senses.\#151 ; There appeared to be no affection of hearing , sight , or smell .
\gt ; nsidering the close proximity of the eighth nerve and labyrinth , affection of tag , especially on the side of the cerebellar lesion , might easily result from inter-lce with these adjacent parts , and independently of any defect of the cereoelium , no affection of hearing could be detected .
There was no optic neuritis .
eflexas.\#151 ; The animal usually lies with the anterior extremity of the side of the lesion rigidly extended , while the spasm involves the posterior extremity of th side to a much less degree , and the posterior extremity of the opposite side * slightly .
All attempts at voluntary movements increase the spasm , as does ^ examination , such as testing the state of the tendon reflexes .
Sometimes the irfl bility is only such as results in clonic spasm in the limb when the " quadrice " tendon is struck , while at other times tonic spasm follows such a blow .
This gerated state of the reflexes is undoubtedly most marked on the same side as M from which the lobe of the cerebellum has been removed .
As has already been sri when the effects while the animal is under the influence of the anaesthetic were b%g detailed , the knee jerk shows in a marked manner this exaggeration on the same de as the lesion , and the exaggeration persists as long as the animal is kept under obtr-vation , though not to such a marked degree as directly after the operation , be opposite knee jerk behaves somewhat curiously , for whereas , as has already been s ?
n it is at first greatly diminished , or even absent , by the next day it is exaggerated.rid by the second day after the operation it is usually very difficult to say which bee jerk is the more exaggerated , this equality being due to exaggeration of that of , he opposite side , and a slight diminution in the excessive irritability of that on the sme side as the lesion .
When the knee jerks are as nearly as possible equally exaggersed the triceps and biceps jerks of the anterior extremities still show a marked diffenc* on the two sides , those on the side from which the lateral lobe of the cerebeun has been removed being distinctly exaggerated while those on the opposite skhar normal .
The chief effects of removal of one lateral lobe of the cerebellum were , briefly , dda tion of the opposite eyeball downwards and outwards , proptosis of both globes , lean nystagmus , rotation of the neck , so that the side of the head and face correspoiiin to the lesion turned upwards , curving of the trunk with the concavity to the sie \lt ; the lesion , motor paresis chiefly of the extremities on the same side as that from nic the cerebellar lobe had been removed , blunting of sensibility , rigidity and incrase reflexes chiefly in these same extremities , rotation fits to the opposite side , and rdin also in that direction .
2 .
Late and Permanent Effects .
As a rule compensation was so complete that it was difficult to detect anynr abnormal in the animals two or three months after the operation .
They werv nourished , and but for the inequality in the condition of the tendon reflexes , the \lt ; the side of the lesion being increased , and greater than those on the oppositesia they might well pass as normal dogs .
One female animal who had evidently pregnant just before the operation , gave birth to four healthy pups at the full1,1 when she seemed none the worse for the process of parturition , was in excelteo*0\#174 ; dition , and showed the natural maternal instincts .
researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
837 Part III.\#151 ; Removal of one half of the Organ .
his series of experiments , instead of removing one lateral lobe alone , an incision ade vertically through the middle lobe of the organ , as nearly as possible in the \gt ; line , and one half of the middle lobe was removed , as well as the lateral lobe same side ( fig. 2 ) .
Fig. 2 .
Ablation of the left half of the Cerebellum in a Dog .
b symptoms which resulted from this lesion were , with one or two exceptions , ical with those which resulted after extirpation of one lateral lobe , except in \gt ; e of intensity .
With the removal of an increased quantity of the organ there an intensification of all the symptoms which had been observed after the less e lesion , and a persistence of them for a greater length of time .
So closely did ymptoms agree with those that have already been enumerated , that recapitula of them here would be needless repetition .
One point is worthy of note , how and that is , that the intensification of the symptoms was out of proportion to nereased amount of the organ which was removed , that is , the increased portion ervous matter removed was small compared to the great intensification of the ptoms .
In other words , the larger mass of the lateral lobe of the cerebellum iars to be of less functional importance than the smaller cential lobe .
^ n animal on whom such an operation had been performed presented in a marked fee the unsteadiness so characteristic of lesions of the cerebellum .
Motor power liminished , sensibility is blunted , and there is rigidity with increased tendon exes in exactly the same extremities as are involved in an animal whose latera lobe alone has been removed .
Instead of such an animal being able to walk with ' week after the operation , the first attempts which result in anything resembling walk do not take place until between two and three weeks after the half of th \#166 ; has been removed .
Then the animal can only walk with one side of the t ^ against the wall of the room , or some other support , and it is always the side co , sponding to the lesion which is thus supported .
Without such support , its h becomes wider and wider , until the limbs on the side of the lesion ( especially ^ posterior one ) give way , and the animal falls to that side .
In such an animal sensibility is blunted to the tests which have always V employed , and which have already been noted , all the limbs being affected withle exception of the anterior extremity on the opposite side from the lesion .
As in of ablation of one lateral lobe , the posterior extremity on the side of the lesion ishe last to recover , and does not do so until three weeks after the operation , as a rule Strabismus and nystagmus occur , as in the less severe lesion ; but while nystag\#174 ; may not persist longer than after the less severe operation , the ocular deviation d\lt ; .
% .
Such dogs recover so completely , that by the end of two months after the opa* tion* beyond slight stiffness of the extremities on the side of the lesion , and sl ; hi unsteadiness evoked on excitement of any kind , little abnormal can be detected looking at the animal .
On examination , the increased deep reflexes , describe ii connection with the late effects of ablation of one lateral lobe alone , are met with So that the symptoms indicative of unilateral ablation of the cerebellum are 1 .
flotation on the long axis towards the opposite side .
2 .
Reeling towards the opposite side .
3 .
The attitude , which consists in a rotation of the cervical spine , so that theid of the face corresponding to the side of the cerebellar lesion is directed upwards.uii an arching of the spinal column with its concavity to the side of the lesion .
4 .
Inco-ordination chiefly in the limbs of the same side .
5 .
Rigidity , most marked in the extremities of the side of the lesion , and\#187 ; re ponderating in the anterior extremity of this side .
6 .
Exaggeration of the tendon reflexes , most marked on the same side .
7 .
Motor paresis affecting both extremities on the side of the lesion , ancti posterior extremity of the opposite side .
8 .
Ansethesia and analgesia having the same distribution as the motor paresis 9 .
Deviation of the opposite eye-ball downwards and outwards , while that otti same side is only slightly , if at all deviated , except under the influence ofth anaesthetic when it looks upwards and to the side of the lesion .
10 .
Lateral nystagmus , the jerks being from the opposite side towards the sk ' the lesion .
besearches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
839 ry__Comparison of the .Electrical Excitability of the Cerebral Hemispheres after Unilateral Ablation of the .
( a ) Immediate effect .
( b ) Late effect .
Immediate Effect.\#151 ; An opening was made on each side of the skull , so as to both " motor " areas , the air cells being first opened , and every precaution not to allow the bone forceps to press on the brain more than could be avoided , jning was next made over one side of the cerebellum and one lateral half of the or one lateral lobe , was removed in the same manner as has already been , ed. A flap of dura matter , covering the motor region , was then carefully on both sides , and the excitability of the cortex , on the two sides , to the c current , was tested .
The chief focus of representation of a certain movement osen on each side , and the comparative excitability of the two carefully tested , us testing , immediately after the removal of the portion of the cerebellum , jmispheres appeared to be equally excitable as a rule ; but in about ten or minutes a distinct difference on the two sides could be detected , the opposite il hemisphere being more excitable than that on the same side as the cerebellar \gt ; n. This difference amounted to 200 , 300 , or even 400 on Kroneckers scale , ifference of excitability was detected both in the fore limb representation and l the representation of the hind limbs .
i following experiment will serve as an example : on October 16 , 1893 , the bone he " motor " areas on both sides was removed , but the aura matter left intact .
\gt ; one covering the left half of the cerebellum was next removed , ana the ranes left untouched .
A flap of dura matter was then carefully raised on both so as to expose the " motor " areas on the two sides , and as the opening in the had been made on the left side first , the right flap of dura matter was that first so as to place the hemispheres , as far as possible , under similar circumstances , hemispheres were then tested , and found to respond equally to the Faradic nt .
The left lateral lobe of the cerebellum was then extirpated , and the ibility of the two hemispheres tested immediately afterwards , when they were L to he still equal ; but about ten minutes later , the right cerebral hemisphere nor excitable than the left .
Flexion of the elbow was elicited with a current )0 on Kronecker 's scale , while it required a current of 500 to elicit the same sment from the left hemisphere ; and a current of 200 elicited no movement on r side .
3out twenty minutes after the removal of the left lateral lobe of the cerebellum , m at the hip was elicited on excitation of the right cortex cerebri with a curient 00 on Kronecker 's scale , while it required a current of 800 to evoke the same .
ement on excitation of the left hemisphere .
Neither hemisphere responded to a ent of 300 .
DCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 5 p Ten minutes later , or half-an-hour from the commencement of the experimen flexion at the elbow was evoked by excitation of the right hemisphere with a currei of 200 , whereas a current of 500 failed to elicit the same movement from the k hemisphere .
In a dog , the left lateral lobe of whose cerebellum was removed three months befo the excitability of the two cerebral hemispheres was tested , I found that the rig-cortex responded to a weaker current than the left , the difference in the strengthf current required to evoke contraction of the extensor muscles of the wrist on the to sides amounting to as much as 400 on Kronecker 's scale .
The fore limbs of $ animal were fixed to the table , the extensor tendons divided at the wrist , the musog separated from the bones to a considerable distance up the fore arm , and their tenchs attached , by means of cords , to two Fick 's spring myographs , whose springs had bn equally calibrated .
In this way , records were obtained , on a blackened surface , ofii contraction of the extensors of the wrist and digits on each side , when the cos-sponding " motor " area wras stimulated .
The extent of the contraction dimioi\amp ; l on both sides as the strength of the current was reduced , the result obtained fromae right extensor muscles was always considerably less than that obtained from those\#174 ; the right side , and a strength of current which still obtained a good response !
excitation of the right hemisphere , failed to evoke any response from the left .
I next used such strengths of current as would evoke a series of unilateral com discharges .
With a current of 800 on Kronecker 's scale , excitation of the left sphere evoked a feeble discharge , while the same strength of current resulted 1i well-marked discharge being obtained from the right hemisphere .
The resit obtained with a current of 1000 applied to each hemisphere , and one of 1500 tcch left , also showed a marked inequality on the two sides .
With a current of 4t could induce no discharge from the left hemisphere , while the right responded nth manner shown in fig. 3 .
A current of 600 was the smallest with which I was at : t induce a series of discharges from the left hemisphere , whereas , from the obtained well-marked discharges with a current of 300 .
Part V\#151 ; The Effect of Absinthe in cases of Unilateral Ablation of the The results of electrical excitation of the cerebral hemispheres were very defit and left no doubt in my mind as to their being genuine , and consequent oi t. unilateral ablation of the cerebellum ; nevertheless , it seemed advisable to prob1 ' matter still further , and instead of stimulating given foci of each hemisphere , to a general discharge of both hemispheres , and obtain graphic records of the convui ^ on the two sides , for comparison .
As has been already said , the plan of Ml _ given foci is open to certain objections , which have been detailed , and althoag chance of error has been reduced to a minimum by the precautions which a*\#169 ; ^ taken , yet no test could be more free from fallacy than that of evoking RESEARCHES INTO THE FUNCTIONS OF THE CEREBELLUM .
841 Isions , and obtaining graphic records of these convulsions on the two sides of Accordingly , I performed a series of experiments , in which general convul-ere evoked by means of intravenous injections of the essential oil of absinthe , one lateral lobe , or one lateral half , of the cerebellum had been removed , and lc records of the convulsions on the two sides were obtained from the extensor ag 0f the fore limbs .
The extensor tendons were first exposed , and included in Fig. 3 .
from extensor muscles of anterior extremity of a Dog on excitation of the Right Cortex with the 'aradic current three months after ablation of the left Lateral Lobe of the Cerebellum .
No response n excitation of Left Cortex with same strength of current .
union ligature , after which they were divided on the distal side of the ligature ; muscles were then freed from their attachments to the bones of the fore arm and : fascial coverings , for a considerable and equal distance on the two sides .
The bellum was next exposed in the usual manner , and one lateral lobe , or half of the m , extirpated .
One or other external jugular vein was exposed in the neck ; and 1 both tore limbs were immovably fixed to the board on which the animal was placed , and the board , in its turn , firmly fixed to the table .
The ligatures included the extensor tendons , were attached to two of Fick 's spring mv0\#163 ; m\gt ; whose springs were equally calibrated , and the writing points of which recorded ' the blackened surface of papers stretched over two cylinders a considerable dista1 apart , which were kept in motion by means of a clock .
Every precaution was tal to have as nearly as possible the same amount of tension on the strings wll* connected the levers with the extensor muscles , and at the same time to have$ arms of the recording levers of the same length .
Having thus placed matters on*i tw*o sides as nearly as possible equal , and having ascertained that the ether narcis was not too profound , three minims of the essential oil of absinthe were injected to the external jugular vein of one side .
After the effect of the first dose of absirae passed off , the same or increased doses were given , as occasion demanded .
The results of these experiments were very striking and demonstrated , in he clearest manner possible , that while convulsions occurred on both sides , those of he muscles of the fore limb , on the side from which the half of the cerebellum had jet removed , greatly preponderated over those of the opposite side ( see fig. 4 ) .
So ga was the difference in the records of the convulsions on the two sides , that it seete\lt ; more than probable that it was due to some error in the recording apparatus therefore reversed the attachments to the myographs , connecting the string form ] attached to the one myograph to the other , and wee versed .
The result of hi manoeuvre showed clearly that there had been no error of record before , forth reversal of the myographs , or , what comes to the same thing , the reversal oftl .
limbs , simply reversed the picture on the recording apparatus .
It is thus bepn dispute that in general convulsions evoked by intravenous injections of the essetii oil of absinthe , the convulsions on the same side as that from which the half oft !
cerebellum has been removed are greater than those of the opposite side .
Such ei the results when the convulsions were evoked about half-an-hour after the uniter ablation of the cerebellum , and the question next arose as to whether this effects immediate one , or whether , like the results of comparative electrical excitation otl two cerebral hemispheres , it takes a .little time to become evident .
Thereto ] , another series of experiments , I prepared everything first of all , and only extirjh the half of the cerebellum just before the absinthe was injected into the jugular ei This procedure is by no means instantaneous in itself , in addition to which a va\#187 ; b amount of time elapses between the injection of the absinthe and the appearare the convulsions , in spite of which the records of the convulsions on the two sidesn\lt ; at first be as nearly as possible equal , while subsequent ones show the prepondem of those on the same side as that from which the half of the cerebellum has^\lt ; removed .
a. ' The fact that the convulsions were unequal on the two sides , that those on th# ] of the cerebellar defect were greater than those on the opposite side , neede^ further confirmation , the fact was incontestable ; but , in attempting to interpre researches into the functions OF THE CEREBELLUM .
843 of the phenomenon , it became evident that several points required careful con-on The first of these appeared to be the necessity of carefully distinguishing r the effect was to be ascribed to an irritative lesion of the cerebellum , or Fig. 4 .
rves from the Extensor Muscles of the anterior Extremity of a Dog four weeks after removal of the left Lateral Lobe of the Cerebellum .
Convulsions evoked by Absinthe .
t ; r " Ifpl / her it was a result of absence of the influence normally exerted by the half of cerebellum that had been removed .
In order to settle this question , I lepeated 5 experiments in animals which had been deprived of one lateral lobe of the cere-mi for one , two , three , and five months .
In all of these the results obtained with -absinthe were the same as those obtained when the lobe was removed , at the ti or soon before , the drug was administered ; the convulsions on the same side as which the cerebellar lobe was removed being greatly in excess of those on the ** side , as evidenced by the curves obtained from the extensor muscles of the fore 1 y ( see fig. 4 ) .
As in the former experiments , so in these , the myographs wererev % , in order to exclude the possibility of fallacy from some error of the instrument\#171 ; , first connected with the right extremity being now connected with the left , and versed , the result in each instance being that the curves were reversed ontb recording apparatus , the greater curve taking the position of the lesser , and the the position of the greater .
Quite apart from the evidence of the curves , there was no difficulty in detecti ?
a direct observation of the extensor muscles of the fore limbs , that those onthtiid from which the lateral lobe of the cerebellum had been removed were in very uc more vigorous action than were those of the opposite side .
Another point observed was that in cases in which a series of convulsions\#171 ; ei obtained , in quick succession , by means of the intravenous injection of absinth tl : centres , on whose discharge the convulsions depend , showed signs of exhaustic c the opposite side , in some cases , while those dominating over the muscles o ti side of the cerebellar ablation were in vigorous activity .
Two points seem worthy of notice in connection with the curves from the do : tl left lateral lobe of whose cerebellum was removed three months before the sions were evoked , the tonus of the second stage of the convulsions on the lefi sic seems to assert itself slightly more than was the case a month after ablation t !
lateral lobe , and the convulsions on the right side are more pronounced thartli were then .
In order , if possible , to have a clear conception of the exact alterations t curve from the normal , absinthe was administered to dogs whose central ancpe pheral nervous systems were intact , and curves obtained from the extensor nisei of the fore limbs during the convulsions which resulted ( see fig. 5 ) .
As may be seen from the figure , .the curves are as nearly as possible equ : a identical on the two sides , and each series of convulsions , which constitutes sfit , made up of three stages , the first and third of which are characterised bykj convulsions , while the second , or intermediate stage , is characterised by tonic \#187 ; aa On comparing these curves with those obtained in animals one lateral lobe or Ui whose cerebellum had been extirpated , it became evident that the curves oik sides were altered in the animals whose cerebellum was defective , the de^ee alteration depending , up to a certain point , on the length of time which between the time that the unilateral ablation of the cerebellum was effected fui when the convulsions were evoked .
The curves obtained almost immediately the removal of the portion of the cerebellum show little alteration in charactf researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
845 al on either side , but in those obtained later the alteration of the curves on es was distinct .
is already been said , the curves of the convulsions on the side of the cerebellar ire greater than those of the opposite side , and of the alteration in the \#166 ; r of the curve there could be no possible doubt .
It was the intermediate or Fig. 5 .
ie Convulsions in a Dog whose Central Nervous System was intact .
Curves from the Extensor Muscles of both anterior extremities .
stage which was chiefly altered , as a glance at figs. 4 and 5 will show .
This either had clonic convulsions superimposed , or it was poorly marked , or there absent , the two clonic stages merging into each other .
The alteration s curve representing the convulsions on the opposite side was unquestionably one of degree , slightly of nature .
This curve was diminished in extent , as comp i with the normal curve , in all its stages , and in addition to this , a slight degre clonus was , in most cases , superimposed on the tonus ( see fig. 4 ) .
When the whole of the cerebellum was removed , the convulsions subseque-j , evoked , by means of intravenous injections of absinthe , were equal on the sides , and the curves obtained from the extensor muscles of the fore limbs preeeter the same characters as those obtained from the extensor muscles of the anvj extremity on the same side as that from which one lateral half of the cerebta heid been removed ( see fig. 6 ) .
Instead of the complete discharge being mac u of a tonic stage interposed between two clonic ones , there was either no sii the tonic stage , or very little of it , the whole discharge being composed of a serg clonic convulsions .
The results of this experiment make it evident that the removal of one half \#171 ; t !
cerebellum has a direct influence on the opposite cerebral hemisphere ; whil tl effect on the hemisphere of the same side must in some way be brought do indirectly , possibly through the agency of the opposite cerebral hemisphere , thi as we have seen is evidently influenced in a very marked manner by the abse ; e the influence of the half of the cerebellum which has been removed .
But these may have another interpretation which will be discussed later .
When convulsions were evoked by means of intravenous injections of abnti unilateral ablation of the cerebellum subsequently performed , and then a further , er of convulsions induced with absinthe , the phenomena observed when one later , li of the cerebellum was removed before any discharge was induced , and the abrr injected at some subsequent period , did not result .
Instead of the records t convulsions showing the marked inequality on the two sides observed in the n series of experiments , the curves obtained from the extensor muscles of the asei extremities were as nearly as possible equal on the two sides , and presented thsa characters in other respects .
The characters of the curves differed little , if t from the normal curves'obtained when the whole of the central nervous systei intact , there was a well-marked clonic stage , then a tonic and finally a short !
' stage .
If , however , the animal was kept under the influence of ether , witho : i more absinthe being administered until a period of from half to three-quarteroi hour had elapsed , the records of convulsions then evoked , while being possib * quite , or nearly , equal on the two sides , showed that the curve corresponding o extensor muscles of the anterior extremity of the side from which the half\#187 ; f cerebellum was removed , differed from that of the opposite side in that a eondtoi slight clonus was , as it were , superimposed on the tonus in the second staged discharge .
Instead of the line connecting the representation of the two clonic^ being a fairly uniform one , it is made up of a series of short up and down s.o which represent a certain amount of clonic spasm , but the general contour curve was preserved .
This slight clonus superimposed on the tonus is some|pJ\#174 ; researches into the functions of the cerebellum , l normal dogs , but is then on both sides .
In some instances where convulsions en evoked by absinthe before half of the cerebellum was removed , and \gt ; yhen Fig. 6 .
He Convulsions in a Dog after Ablation of the wliole Cerebellum .
Curves from the anterior extremities ' Extensor Muscles .
ulsions were afterwards obtained on further administering absinthe , it sometimes , ftned that after a series of convulsions , some inequality on the two sides began to Xjccxciv.\#151 ; b , 5 q show itself on the tracing , the curve corresponding to the side from which the hal the cerebellum was removed being greater than that representing the convulsion the opposite side ; but there was still an absence of the marked clonic chara^ of the discharge which replaced the tonic element of the second stage of t discharges obtained on the side of the lesion when the unilateral ablation of l , cerebellum was performed prior to the administration of absinthe , only a slu amount of clonus being as it were superadded to the tonus .
Part VI.\#151 ; Removal of Both Lateral Lobes of the Cerebellum .
The animals subjected to this operation were only kept under observation for iorj periods , as there seemed no special object to be gained by keeping them alive logei than was necessary to be certain of the exact symptoms which attended such le\amp ; nf and as it was always soon evident that the same process of recovery was going a h them as in all the other dogs with cerebellar lesions .
Ocular Deviation consisted in downward rotation of both globes , which werals deviated outward to a variable extent .
As in other cases ot strabismus , the res t c cerebellar lesions , the globes returned to their normal positions in the coursed few days .
Nystagmus was upward in direction with a tendency to rotation of the up segment of each globe outward at first .
The spontaneous nystagmus was replaed 1 nystagmus only on movement of the eyeballs , and that in the direction in which tl eyes were directed ; and in the course of two or three days there was no long* ai nystagmus .
Motor Phenomena.\#151 ; The animal was unable to stand , owing to the combinata circumstances X have already detailed in connection with unilateral ablation 11 cerebellum .
All four extremities were affected , and the motor paresis v. considerably more marked in the posterior extremities than in the anterior .
1neo-ordination showed itself in geperal unsteadiness , but no rotation moveen were ever observed in these animals in which a bilateral lesion of the cerebellu h\lt ; been produced .
The unsteadiness was , as in other cases , increased , oi evokl , 1 voluntary efforts , excitement , \amp ; c. Bl j Sensory Phenomena.\#151 ; There were anaesthesia and analgesia , as tested by co and the clips , of all the extremities , which cleared up on the anterior extreuti before the posterior , except in those instances in which more of one lateral lobe cerebellum had been removed than of the other , in which case the posterior extinu on the same side as the lesser lesion sometimes recovered before the opposite arei extremity , and , of course , also before the opposite posterior extremity .
^ Reflexes.\#151 ; Extensor spasm was marked in both anterior extremities , w ic rigidly extended at right angles to the trunk at first .
Eigidity of the pose i ties was very much less marked .
All the tendon reflexes on both sides were d There was no deviation of the head or arching of the trunk , such as was i in unilateral ablation of the organ .
Fig. 7 , Ablation of the Pyramid and Declive of the middle Lobe of the Cerebellum of a Dog .
Fig. 8 .
ttion of the Pyramid , Declive and part of the Monticulns of the middle Lobe of the Cerebellum of a Dog .
Part VII.\#151 ; Extirpation of the Posterior Part of the Middle Lobe , or of one Lme* Half of it .
1 .
Extirpation of the Posterior Part of the Middle Lobe ( see figs. 7 , and 8 ) .
( a ) Immediate and transitory effect .
( b ) Late and permanent effect .
( a ) Immediate Effect .
Ocular Phenomena.\#151 ; Both , eye-balls were slightly proptosed , and were rotsed downwards and to a less degree outwards .
" Whenever nystagmus was detects it was vertical or of a rotatory and irregular character .
Motor Phenomena.\#151 ; There was always distinct paresis of the posterior extremes while , as far as could be ascertained , the anterior extremities were only sligtlj affected .
The animal walked on a widened base , as far as the posterior extreme were concerned , and , instead of resting on the pads of its posterior paws , it rest* oi the whole of that part of the limb included between the ankle and digits , m\lt ; scraped the hind legs along the ground as it walked .
Inco-ordination.\#151 ; Unsteadiness of the head , increased on attempts at voluoar movements of all kinds , was present .
Inco-ordination did not show itself lateral reeling , as in the case of unilateral lesions of the cerebellum , hut , ati animal made attempts to walk , each succeeding step taken with the fore ml resulted in their being raised higher and higher from the ground , and onestc followed another before the limb had reached the ground , the animal as it ve attempting to find solidity in mid air , at an increasingly elevated level , until tlfo part of its body is raised so high that the dog falls backwards .
When the aniai going through this performance , it reminds one much more of a performing horse at circus than of a normal dog walking on its hind limbs alone , owing to the fact tat great a part of the posterior limb rests on the ground , whereas a normal dog wki on its hind legs alone rests on the pads of its paws , without touchmg the ground any other part of its limbs .
f " ' ~ Rotation movements were not observed , except in one instance , when they o a few hours after the operation , and were slight .
... fL .
Sensory Phzmmena.-There is blunting of sensibility of all the extremities a h. but the anterior extremities recover before the posterior , which , however , usual !
no sign of anaesthesia at the end of a week .
Reflexes.\#151 ; Rigidity of the extremities was slight , and the tendon reflex slightly increased .
( b ) Late Effect .
Z ^symptoms that have just been detailed passed off within a variable er deeding 0rthe amount of the lobe removed , usually three or four weeks , researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
851 t remained , if anything , of the former symptoms , was possibly some slight I m0Tements of the posterior extremities , which was scarcely detectable , imals could stand on their hind limbs alone like normal dogs , and could jump , - attempts to reach food held above them , quite as well as normal dogs .
In was difficult to be sure that any alteration in the state of the tendon reflexes id while in others there seemed to be still a slight increase of the knee-jerk .
the greater part of the middle lobe of the cerebellum was extirpated , which d the whole of the posterior half and some of the anterior :\#151 ; he tendency to fall backwards , if present , was only slight , as compared with he posterior portion of this lobe alone was removed , aco-ordination chiefly in the posterior extremities .
'igidity was present in all the extremities , but more in the anterior .
II the tendon reflexes were exaggerated .
lotor paresis involved all the extremities , but the anterior only to a minor , the greater part of the defect being noticed in the posterior extremities , msesthesia and analgesia affecting all the extremities , but less marked in the \gt ; r than in the posterior .
)ivergence and rotation downwards of both eyeballs .
Nystagmus was vertical or of an irregular rotatory character .
en only the posterior part of the vermis is removed the same symptoms are t , though to a less degree , with the exception of the tendency to fall back- , which is very much more marked .
tirpation of half of the Posterior Part of the Middle Lobe ( see fig. 9 ) .
( a ) Immediate and transitory eftect .
( b ) Late and permanent effect .
Immediate Effect .
lar Phenomena.\#151 ; The eyeball , on the same side as the cerebellar lesion , was 1 downwards and to the side of the lesion , that is outwards .
No deviation o. posite eyeball could be detected .
There was nystagmus of both globes to the te side and slightly upwards . .
lor Phenomena.\#151 ; There was only slight evidence of any impaiiment o t e cents of the limbs .
This slight paresis was in both posterior extremities and in iterior extremity of the side of the lesion ; but it was scarcely evident m Is except in the posterior extremity of the side of the lesion .
'o-ordination.\#151 ; The slightest possible unsteadiness existed at first , but so s transitory was this symptom that it might well have been an e ect o t e thetie , and in no way directly dependent on the cerebellar lesion .
flexes.\#151 ; There was slight increase of the tendon reflexes on the same si e as .ellar lesion ; less than after removal of the whole of the posterior part o t e middle lobe , and of course in no way comparable to the great exaggeration wh followed removal of one lateral lobe of the cerebellum .
The knee-jerk on the 0 * * side did not participate in the slight increase of its fellow , nor did it apnea , r Jv all diminished .
As far as could be ascertained , no other symptoms were present .
( b ) Late Effect .
So exceedingly transitory were the symptoms just alluded to , that they cleared in the course of a few days , and certainly by the end of a week nothing abnovl could be detected , unless it were some slight doubt as to whether the ocular gheg were quite parallel , or whether the knee-jerk was a shade brisker than that onhe opposite side or not .
Ablation of one lateral half of the posterior portion of the vermis is therore characterised by:\#151 ; 1 .
Slight inco-ordination of the extremities of the same side .
2 .
Slight rigidity in the extremities of the same side .
3 .
Slight increase in the tendon reflexes of that side .
4 .
Evidence of motor paresis chiefly detectable in the posterior extremity o:th same side .
5 .
Deviation of the eyeball on the same side outwards and downwards .
6 .
Nystagmus from that side towards the opposite side , and slightly upwards Part VIII.\#151 ; Ablation of the Whole Cerebellum ( see fig. 10 ) .
In four instances in which total extirpation of the cerebellum was attempt\#169 ; tl animals died the same night after the operation , and the autopsies revealed noin which would have accounted for their death , which was consequently ascribed , riitl or wrongly , to shock .
I have , however , been able to get dogs to survb t performing the operation in two stages , removing one half of the organ oi or occasion , and two or three weeks later , when the animals had sufficiently recan from the effects of the first operation , removing the remaining half .
In dd tion to this I have twice succeeded in getting dogs to recover when the ho organ was removed at one operation .
The most noteworthy symptoms hie attended ablation of the whole organ were the following :\#151 ; Ocular Deviation took the form of a varying degree of downward rotation ofoo* globes , which displacement was a variable time in being recovered from .
Nystagmus was not spontaneous ; it only occurred on movement of the globe ai then the jerks were in the direction in which the eyes were turned .
Motor Phenomena.\#151 ; The animal was unable to sit up or stand .
Paresis afich all the extremities , but the posterior to a greater extent than the anterior ; an t latter recovered before the former .
researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
853 I Fig. 9 .
trilateral Ablation of the Posterior Part of the middle Lobe of the Cerebellum in a Dog .
Fig. 10 .
Ablation of the Cerebellum in a Dog .
'-ordination.\#151 ; No rotation phenomena were ever observed ; but general unsteadi-la ving the characters which have been already described in connection with Lesions of the cerebellum , was present .
On attempting to get up , the animal iiscriminately to one or other side .
recover , while se ae Sensory Phenomena .
\#151 ; As in those dogs in which both lateral lobes of the helium were removed , there was anaesthesia and analgesia of all the extremities wt though persisting for a much longer time , cleared up in the same order as tl bilateral lesions , viz. , the anterior extremities were first to posterior extremities did so later .
Reflexes.\#151 ; Extensor spasm of the anterior extremities was a feature of this also , the limbs being rigidly extended at right angles to the trunk , as a rule .
when this was not present spontaneously , it was evoked whenever the animal^ disturbed .
Rigidity of the posterior extremities was less marked than in the e\amp ; 0 ) the anterior ones .
The tendon reflexes were increased on both sides .
There wano rotation of the neck , or curving of the trunk , such as was met with when onh)D , lateral half of the organ was removed .
Therefore the symptoms which charachb total ablation of the cerebellum are :\#151 ; 1 .
General inco-ordination .
Rigidity most marked in the anterior extremities .
Exaggeration of tendon reflexes .
Motor paresis affecting all the extremities , but the posterior more that !
anterior .
5 .
Anaesthesia and analgesia of similar distribution .
6 .
Deviation of the eye-balls slightly downwards .
7 .
Nystagmus in whatever direction the globes are directed .
2 .
8 .
4 .
Part IX.\#151 ; Control Experiments on the Labyrinth and Eighth Nerve* As I explained in a former paper , t Professor Victor Horsley kindly suggeski me that , as the auditory nerve and labyrinth are in such close proximity to theser bellum , it was necessary to institute control experiments , with a view to exeldii the possibility of the effects being wholly or partly due to interference with ae other , or both , of these structures .
The following experiments were conseqim performed as controls ( 1 ) Extirpation of the labyrinth on one side .
( 2 ) Intercranial division of the eighth nerve on one side .
( 3 ) Chemical irritation of the eighth nerve on one side .
As all these procedures were attended with almost identical results , they " dl considered together ; but , before doing so , it is necessary for me to explain that , wi to the impossibility of exposing a sufficient length of the eighth nerve to ap ) irritant to it without lifting up the lateral lobe of the cerebellum , the irritai \#166 ; ' placed on the end of the nerve as it entered the labyrinth .
Crystals of chlode * Gf .
Flourens , Cton , Brewer , Hogyes , Bechterew , Sewall , \amp ; c , f LoC , tit , researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
855 t were packed around the stump of the nerve , and kept in position by means of of aseptic wool introduced into the labyrinth .
symptoms which resulted from these lesions of the labyrinth and eighth nerve haracteristic , and perfectly distinct from those which have been detailed in tion with lesions of the cerebellum , as will be immediately seen .
; igo , as evidenced by reeling , was a constant feature of these lesions , but varied degree of its intensity in different animals , and according to the time that the rtion was made after the operation .
It was always most marked at first , and lly became less later .
In only one animal did it reach the degree of severity iVy to produce rotation movements such as were observed in unilateral lesions cerebellum , and in this case the rotation movements were violent , and took \gt ; n the dogs long axis towards the side of the lesion , and not towards the oppo-le , as was invariably the case in unilateral ablation of the cerebellum .
Reeling metimes very marked , and the animal always fell towards the side of the ; at other times it was less marked , so that the animal would be preserving a straight course , in walking , when it would suddenly reel and fall to the side of ion .
there constant feature of the labyrinthine disturbance was the condition known ?
cus movements , " in which the animal walked round a central axis , which was side of the lesion .
The circumference of the circle performed is a relatively one , so that the trunk is curved with its concavity to the side of the lesion these movements are taking place , the tail and head being approximated , is no spasm of the trunk muscles producing this curving of the animal ; it r walks round and round in so small a circle that it is necessary for it to bend lie in order to do so .
ilar deviation wras present , and consisted in a rotation of the globe on the side lesion downwards and sometimes in addition inwards .
The extent of the latter varied , and sometimes it appeared to be replaced by a slight outward tendency , cribed by Bechtee , ew.# Like this observer , I find that the opposite globe turns ds , but I have not met with the upward rotation of this globe described by him .
stagmus was always well marked , differed in character on the two sides , and 1 according to the time after the operation that the observation was made , tly after the operation there was usually upward nystagmus of the globe on my side as the lesion , with a varying amount of the inward element ; while that o opposite side was the subject of lateral nystagmus , the jerks being outward , or three hours after the operation the same animal would present well-marked 'ry nystagmus of both globes , the upper segment of the eyeball on the side of Lesion turning inward , while the same segment of the opposite globe rotated rard .
* Bechterew , ' Pfluger 's Archiv , ' 1883 , vol. 30 p. 312 .
DCCCX .
CIV.-B .
DR. j. S. RlSlEN RUSSELL ON EXPERIMENTAL Motor power was not impaired , sensibility was intact , there was no rigidity a the tendon reflexes were not altered .
V. CERTAIN GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS .
I wish to allude briefly to the following points before concluding this paper 1 .
The trophic influence supposed to be exerted by the cerebellum .
2 .
How cerebellar lesions in monkeys differ from similar lesions in dogs .
3 .
Congenital deficiency of the cerebellum in a cat .
1 .
The Trophic Influence Supposed to be Exerted by the Cerebellui That nerve fibres derived from the cerebellum degenerate both downwards intohe medulla and also upwards into the cerebrum there is no question .
That is , fibredt degenerate downwards chiefly on the same side of the medulla as the cerebhs lesion , occupying the lateral region ; and fibres degenerate upwrards , cross in:h\lt ; superior decussation and go chiefly to the opposite basal ganglia .
More .than hi I am not prepared to say at present , but I hope before long to be able to publh i detailed account of my investigations in this direction .
For the first few days , and in some cases for a week or two , my dogs cerfenf wasted rapidly ; but after this they gained flesh as rapidly as they had lost itfta eventually became very much better nourished than they were before the openioi In some cases , when the animal was kept a long time , they became exceedingly^ nourished and fat .
Whether the wasting at first was due to any direct trail effect lost with the part of the cerebellum removed , I am not prepared tosa I think that it is far more likely that it was due to the fact that the animfc , \lt ; a rule , would not attempt to take food at first , and could only be got to sWlo a limited quantity of milk syringed into the back of their mouths .
Those arma which took their food well from the beginning did not waste ; but then in part of the cerebellum removed had been trivial .
^ # ll Conjunctivitis was sometimes met with , and even corneal opacities r _ a few rare instances ; but I should be sorry to commit myself to any view thath are trophic results of the cerebellar lesion .
I am more inclined to believe i possibly perchloride of mercury lotion , or the vapour of ether , get into t \#174 ; Jr\#174 ; set up this irritation .
Certainly , whereas several of the dogs first opera presented conjunctival irritation , those operated on later , after I a a precautions to prevent the entrance of these agents into the eyes , vei7 presented even slight conjunctivitis .
But even without these irri a to account for it , it is not surprising that with so much proptosis of .
as was so often present , there should have been some irritation of conju It was the rarest thing to see any sores on the dogs , and if they had sores researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
857 eration , these seemed to heal , without being made in any way worse by the ion One animal alone developed a sore , which might have been the result of is of some trophic influence of the cerebellum .
The whole cerebellum had been sd and the animal would always lie on the same side , and was often wet to lying in .
its own urine , under which unfavourable circumstances a sore ped on one shoulder , in consequence of which the animal was killed by an , Se of chloroform .
How Cerebellar Lesions in Monkeys Differ from Similar Lesions in Dogs .
the symptoms , with the exception of motor paresis and blunting of sensibility , much less intense in monkeys than in dogs .
In the limited number of monkeys 'ated on , ocular deviations were not marked , and I detected no nystagmus , al unsteadiness , so marked in certain lesions of the cerebellum in dogs , was very in similar lesions in monkeys .
ation movements were never observed .
Motor paresis was always very pro-ed , as was blunting of sensibility ; both of which affected the same limbs as in r lesions in dogs .
The paresis on the same side as a unilateral ablation of the ; ]lum was well marked ; and the general paresis , with inability to sit up , owing akness of the trunk muscles , was most striking after ablation of the whole ?
re was an absence of the extensor spasm of the fore limbs so characteristic of 5liar lesions in dogs ; and the tendon reflexes did not show nearly the same dve degree of excitability .
8 .
Congenital Deficiency of the Cerebellum in a Cat ( see fig. 11 ) .
ring to the extreme kindness and courtesy of Dr. S. " W. Carruthers , I had an tunity of examining a cat which he showed at the Neurological Society of on , and which presented distinct paresis of both the extremities on the right hut more in the posterior , and a slight amount in the left posterior extremity .
Oarruthers had recognised , in this cat , the picture presented by my dogs with tteral ablation of the cerebellum , and handed it over to me for examination , 'e was marked defective development of the cerebellum , and the right lobe was 3ely half the size of the left ( see fig. 11 ) .
This was what we expected to find , l the symptoms presented by the cat during life .
VI .
CONCLUSIONS , AND THEIR DISCUSSION . .
lie first conclusion warranted is based on the results of mesial section of the 'helium , and points to one lateral half of the organ as in no great measure 5 R % depending on the co-operation of the other half for the proper performance of functions ; a conclusion opposed to Luciani 's view , though his own results of section of the cerebellum appear to me to support my conclusion .
If the physiologically one , the most grave disturbances of function ought to result severance of its two lateral halves , whereas the reverse obtains .
Further , unilat ] ablation of it ought to be followed by general peripheral defects , instead of dei , L the majority of which are unilateral .
Similarly , the effect of such unilateral ahl ?
fl ought to have the same effect on both cerebral hemispheres , instead of an effect widely different on each .
The results of mesial section , and of unilateral ablatio of the cerebellum , make it clear that the bulk of the impulses pass from the one of the organ to the cerebrum or spinal cord directly , and do not traverse the opp$itf half of the organ before reaching their destinations .
Fig. 11 .
Congenital defect of the Cerebellum in a Cat. Right half much smaller than left .
The phenomena observed after destructive lesions of this organ prove that iitei of assigning to it one special function , distinct from those subserved by other pats the central nervous system , it would be more correct to look on the cerebellum as part of that great system having many functions in common with other parts ' !
and that whereas one cerebral hemisphere is functionally related to the opposite of the body , the influence of the cerebellum is exerted on the same side of the .
i.e. , it has a direct action , as opposed to the crossed action of the cerebrum .
Formerly inco-ordination has been held to account for the impairment of movme met with after lesions of the cerebellum .
Lociani recognises three fact s responsible for the defect , asthenia , astasia , and atonia ; and my own results inco-ordination , rigidity , and motor paresis as accounting for it .
What I wis \gt ; * researches into the functions of THE CEREBELLUM .
859 is that one of the factors on which the impaired movements depend is as \#171 ; motor " paresis as that which results from ablation of the " sensori-motor " jf the cerebrum .
True motor paresis , the result of experimental ablation of \#166 ; the cerebellum , has been described by others but it has been of the opposite the body , and not the same side as the cerebellar lesion .
Without a ope examination of the spinal cord demonstrating the absence of any injury jyramid on the side of the cerebellar lesion , such results are without value , for amid is extremely easily injured above the decussation , in any operation on sral lobe of the cerebellum .
No such microscopic examination has been made of the cases in wdrich paresis of the opposite side of the body is said to have et with after ablation of one lateral half of the cerebellum .
case of defective development of the cerebellum in a cat in which the right lobe was very much smaller than the left , and in which there was paresis of it extremities , and to a slight extent of the posterior extremity of the left pports my view .
So , too , cases of lesion of one side of the cerebellum , in the subject , have been recorded in which there was motor paresis on the same the body .
seemed possible that the cerebellum might influence motor power indirectly i the agency of the motor cortex of the opposite side , owing to the crossed iship which exists between one half of the cerebellum and the opposite cerebral here .
But we have seen that the effect of removal of the cerebellar influence le cerebral cortex is to cause increased rather than diminished excitability of tical cells , so that we are justified in assuming that the motor influence exerted muscles , by the cerebellum , is a direct one through the spinal centres , rather ie acting indirectly through the opposite cerebral cortex .
; rary to the views of previous observers , I look on the ocular deviations which inter destructive lesion of the cerebellum as paralytic , and not irritative pheno-That is , the removal of the cerebellar influence from some of the ocular is , allows of the production of abnormal deviations of the globes being brought by the unantagonized muscles .
to nystagmus , I think two kinds must be distinguished ; one which is spon-is and due to some uncontrolled action , and the other which is only evoked on nent of the globes in any direction , and which is attributable to weakness ocular muscles rather than to any over-action of them .
' rigidity and exalted condition of the tendon reflexes on the side of the lesion \gt ; oint to a direct influence of the cerebellum on the spinal centres , as has been 1 in a former paper.t I regard this influence as one of control , which , when taken om the centres in the spinal cord , allows of their over-action .
The facts appear urant this view , and there is , I venture to think , no necessity to call to our aid * Of .
Serres , Dickinson , \amp ; c. t Loc .
cit. 860 DR. J. S , RISIEN RUSSELL ON EXPERIMENTAL the theory advanced by Dr. IIughtngs Jackson , * which supposes that the cere and cerebellar influences antagonize each other normally , so that when one or o influence is removed , not only does paralysis result as a direct effect of the lesion { l\ the paralyzed parts become rigid owing to their invasion by the unantagor , ^ influence from the intact organ .
Indeed , this view was negatived by my f0le results , in which the activity of the knee-jerk consequent on removal of one cenwi hemisphere was further increased by ablation of one lateral lobe of the cerehelluir The attitude so characteristic of ablation of one lateral lobe , or half of the bellum , is , I believe , due to spasm in the paresed trunk muscles on the side otk lesion , and this is in keeping with what find in the limbs , for those parese^ those in which there is spasm .
With regard to inco-ordination , I incline most strongly to the views of Dr. Hae lings Jackson , t who supposes that the disorders of locomotion are brought m primarily by the over-action of muscles which are attempting to compensate for which are paralysed .
This explanation holds good as far as the unsteadiness irregular movements are concerned , but there are other symptoms included undt ti term inco-ordination which cannot be accounted for in this way .
Dotation moveen and reeling in some particular direction , are , I take it , the results of subjective ms tions of loss of balance , which however result in objective phenomena directly 4e over-action .
It is a significant fact that rotation movements only occur in uniltei lesions of the cerebellum , and that they do not occur when both lateral lobes , * t whole organ is removed .
Possibly the reason why the animal rotates to thesai side after section of one middle peduncle4 and to the opposite side after remcal one lateral lobe of the cerebellum , as found by Luciani and myself , is becau* t excitation involved in section of the peduncle generates in excess the very imprtsic which are lost when the lateral lobe is absent .
Or it may be that the auditoryei was injured in those experiments in which the middle peduncle was divided , in.h case , as we have seen , if rotation occurs , it is to the side of the lesion .
Anaesthesia and analgesia after destruction of parts of the cerebellum point \gt ; i organ as exercising sensory as well as motor functions , and ft is interesting t n that the limbs paresed are those in which there is blunting of sensibility fact pointing to the resemblance of the cerebellum to the " sensori-motor " coiex the cerebrum .
The crossed influence of one half of the cerebellum on the opposite cortex a}*-to be one of control ( as was theoretically surmised by Dr. Gowers S ) owing to t j that the discharge from the opposite cerebral hemisphere evoked by the W current , or by absinthe , is greater than normal , after unilateral ablation of || * * * S * Hughlings Jackson , ' Med. Times and Gaz .
, ' 1878 , vol. 2 , p. 485 .
f Loc .
cit. + C.f. Majendie , Hitzig , \amp ; c. S Gowers , ' Lancet , ' 1890 , vol. 1 , p. 95$ .
RESEARCHES iSfTO THE FUNCTIONS O THE CEREBELLUM .
861 Luoiani has shown that compensation is brought about by the " sensori-cortex of the cerebrum after ablation of parts of the cerebellum ; and I am tempted to believe that this increased activity of the cells of the opposite hemisphere , after unilateral destruction of the cerebellum , is a provision for ation , and accounts for the rapid and almost complete recovery which takes er such a lesion .
to account for the diminished discharge from the cerebral hemisphere on the le as the cerebellar lesion , under similar conditions , must , for the present , in open question .
It may mean that one half of the cerebellum inhibits the ilf under normal circumstances , or that the cerebral hemisphere whose ity is increased inhibits its fellow , or that the half of the cerebellum itself r inhibits the anterior horn cells of the same side of the spinal cord , y , it is evident that the effects obtained on ablation of different parts of the im do not depend on any disturbance of the auditory nerve or the labyrinth , teral ablation of the cerebellum is the most likely lesion to be attended with urbance of these structures , it will suffice if we contrast its effects with those ttended the operations on the labyrinth and eighth nerve .
Cerebellum .
Labyrinth , \amp ; o. %us .
ms .
Phenomena Opposite eye down and out , eye of same side little if at all deviated Lateral jerks of both globes towards the side of the lesion Paresis chiefly affecting limbs of Opposite eye deviated inwards .
Eye on same side deviated downwards chiefly Direction different on the two sides , and different at different intervals after the operation No affection of motor power same side lination . . .
Rotation and reeling to opposite side ' Phenomena . .
Blunting of sensibility chiefly of limbs on same side } ... . .
Increased chiefly on the same side as lesion Rotation rare and to same side as lesion .
Reeling in same direction No blunting of sensibility Unaltered

