384- Dr. E. B. Wilson .
[ Dec , 14 , December 14 , 1882 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Joseph Chamberlain , whose certificate had been suspended as required by the Statutes , was ballofcted for and elected a Fellow of the Society .
In accordance with the announcement made from the Chair at the last Meeting , the question of Dr. Armstrong 's re-admission was put to the vote , and was decided in the affirmative .
The President thereupon declared that Dr. Armstrong was re-admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for j them .
The following Papers were read I. " The Development of Renilla/ ' By Edmund B. Wilson , Ph. D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , F.R.S. Received October 5 , 1882 . .
( Abstract .
) The following abstract contains the more important points established by a study of the development of Renilla , which was carried on at intervals during three years at the marine laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University , conducted by Dr. W. K. Brooks .
The need of farther studies on the embryology of polyps in general must be apparent to every zoologist ; and Ren , as a highly specialised form , presents a number of special morphological problems , which can only be solved by a study of the embryological history of the organism .
This genus appeared , therefore , to be a doubly desirable object for study .
The paper is divided into four parts .
The first comprises an account of the segmentation of the egg and formation of the germ-layers ; the second a description of the formation of the tissues and organs of the primary or axial polyp ; the third part treats of the formation of the colony produced by budding from the axial polyp ; and the fourth deals with a few theoretical questions suggested by the phenomena observed .
The leading points of the paper are as follows:\#151 ; The Development of Renilla .
I. follicles are ruptured and cast aside at the time of spawning .
( 2 .
) The action of the vitellus during segmentation is extremely variable , while the division of the nuclei appears to he nearly regular .
The vitellus , after a preliminary division of the nuclei , may divide at the first cleavage into two , four , ( ?
) eight , sixteen , or thirty-two spheres , which may he equal or noticeahly unequal .
In some cases cleavage hegms at one pole a considerable time hefoie nny sign of activity is shown at the opposite pole , so that the segmentation appears precisely like that of a true merohlastic egg .
In others , again , the segmentation is irregular and extremely unequal , so as to appear quite like that of an epibolic gastrula .
All of these forms gave rise , however , to quite similar larval , which were proved by isolation in small aquaria to be normal and healthy .
In several cases of division into sixteen and thirty-two spheres , the vitellus was observed to undergo slight changes of form some time previous to actual division .
These changes appear to be the expression of attempts at division on the part of the vitellus , which has not , however , energy enough to carry out a complete cleavage .
In other cases the attempts are partially successful and the egg divides incompletely into spheres which do not become clear and well defined until the following cleavage .
The series of forms appears to be produced by variations in the activity of the vitelline protoplasm or in the resistance ( in the form pr*obably of deutoplasm ) which is opposed to it .
The phenomena are of considerable interest , as showing how natural selection may find a field for action even in the earliest stages of an organism , and as a caution against drawing too hasty conclusions in regard to the character of segmentation from the study of a few individuals only .
It is further remarkable to find the action of the vitellus and of the nuclei as independent of one another as these facts seem to indicate .
( S. ) Cleavage is at first superficial , a considerable central mass remaining unsegmented .
The furrows finally extend to the centie , and a small temporary segmentation cavity is formed , ( 4 .
) The layers are separated by a process of delamination .
The endodermic mass is at first solid and is not separated by a suppoiting lamella from the ectoderm .
( 5 .
) The supporting lamella is derived mainly from the ectodexm by a very peculiar process of secretion at the inner ends of the cells .
( 6 .
) The gastric cavity is formed by absorption of the central endo-derm cells by those which are more peripherally placed .
The former undergo a peculiar process of disintegration and form a granular ( 1 .
) As in other Alcyonaria , Renilla is dioecious , and fertilisation is effected in the water after discharge of the generative elements through the mouths of the feeding polyps .
The ovarian or spermatic -386 Dr. E. B. Wilson .
[ Dec. 14 , which is absorbed by the peripheral cells by a process which appears ) to be identical with the Amoeboid absorption of yolk observed by Reichenbach in the embryo crayfish .
At this period the gastric cavity is without any communication with the exterior .
II .
( 7 .
) The oesophagus is formed as a solid invagination of ectoderm in which a slit-like cavity , elongated in the dorso-ventral plane , soon appears .
The lower end of the oesophagus is then absorbed , placing the gastric cavity for the first time in communication with the exterior .
Much variation exists in the process of absorption .
Most commonly it begins at one side , so that the bottom of the oesophagus hangs down like a valve from the opposite side .
It is then absorbed bodily .
( 8 .
) The radial septa and the horizontal or peduncular septum differ widely in structure and mode of origin .
The former arise simultaneously at the anterior end and grow backwards .
Each septum consists of two layers of endoderm cells , separated by a structureless -lamella .
The peduncular septum arises at the posterior end and grows forwards .
It is composed , of three layers of endoderm cells , the middle i of which atrophies .
This septum is probably to be regarded as formed by the fusion of the dorsal pair of radial septa .
The septa have a very marked bilateral arrangement .
( 9 .
) The mesenterial filaments are formed as endodermic thickenings of the edges of the septa .
After the formation of the mouth they become continuous with the invaginated ectoderm of the oesophagus .
The filaments are arranged in pairs of different lengths and structure .
The dorsal pair appears last and develops most slowly .
( 10 .
) The tentacles appear simultaneously and are at first destitute of pinnae .
They arise as hollow caecal outgrowths from the anterior extremities of the radial chambers .
( 11 .
) The calyx-teeth are formed in a similar manner but in a .definite sequence .
The ventro-lateral pair first appear and then the median dorsal tooth .
The remaining two pairs appear nearly at the .same time , but the medio-lateral pair usually precedes the dorsolateral .
Occasionally , however , the reverse is true .
( 12 .
) The muscles are entirely endodermic , with the possible exception of those of the tentacles .
They are developed from the bases of .epithelial cells , as " epithelio-muscular " cells or myoblasts .
The cell-body , in many cases at least , becomes reduced to a small granular mass enclosing the nucleus and closely applied to the side of the fibre , .
and the entire muscle-element lies below the epithelium .
The muscles are arranged in two sets , longitudinal and circular , the latter being outside the former .
The circular muscles form a nearly uniform sheet , but the longitudinal fibres are at first arranged in definite tracts which exhibit a striking bilateral symmetry .
The Development of Renilla .
1882 .
] as ) Tie spicules are developed in the interior of cells and are of J0 kinds , ectodermic and endodermic , which differ widely m form , .
Professor B. K. Emerson ias kindly examined tiem for me with the polariscope , and finds them to consist of a crystalline core , nrobably of aragonite , surrounded by an amorphous layer and this by I second crystalline layer , the axes of which correspond with those of *04 I The ventral chamber becomes closed in front by membranous outgrowths from the septa and body-walls .
The dorsal chamber is closed by the forward extension of the fore edge of the peduncular septum , which finally unites with the dorsal wall of the body just anterior to tire exhalent zooid ( vide infra ) .
III .
( 15 ) The development of the buds is essentially like that of the axial polyp , but no trace of the peduncular septum is formed and the mesenterial filaments appear in a different sequence , the dorsal pair appearing first and developing most rapidly .
( 16 ) The buds which are to form sexual polyps appear always m symmetrically placed pairs , and , in the earlier stages in a definite sequence .
They are arranged in two simple lateral rows , whip extend both forwards and backwards by the appearance oi new bu s upon the axial polyp .
The backward extension is , however , limited , whence results the sinus , into which the peduncle is inserted Anteriorly the two rows of buds extend forwards and downwards until they meet at the ventral side of the axial polyp , which is thus included within the disk .
, , , New buds are constantly formed in the angles between older buds , and each lateral bud is in time enclosed by the younger adjacent buds in the same manner as the axial polyp .
, ( 17 ) The ventral sides of the buds are at first directed down-wards , and hence , when the polyps in later stages bend upwards so as to assume a vertical direction , the ventral side is turned outwards , away from the centre of the disk .
( 18 .
) The zooids develop in the same manner as the polyps and are indistinguishable from the latter in their early stages They are at first single but soon multiply to form clusters , m which the ventia chambers of the zooids are always turned away from the centre of the group .
The law of budding is therefore the same for the zooids ant polyps .
In rare cases the secondary zooids become m turn centres o multiplication according to the same law .
, e The axes of the primary zooids are definitely related to lose o the polyps on which they are placed .
( 19 .
) The " Hauptzooid " of Kolliker is formed at an early stage as a median bud upon the axial polyp , and its function is to discharge .388 Mr. H. M. Ward .
O Morphology and [ Dec. Ill water from the colony .
The other zooids draw in water from the !
\#166 ; exterior by the action of the cilia which line their cavities .
This i I true also of the sexual polyps in their early stages ( though this function is entirely lost as they become older ) .
Hence the zooids are \#174 ; physiologically , as well as anatomically , identical with the youn^ polyps ; they are , in other words , polyps in a state of arrested de'-velopment .
The taking in of water is of vital importance to the organism , since the movements of the peduncle , by which the creature creeps , are .effected by forcing the water to and fro .
In this fact we find , probably , the explanation of the very early appearance of buds upon the axial polyp .
IV .
( 20 .
) The facts of development , so far as they go , indicate the .derivation of Benilla from a form related to the Bathyptilese , which probably possessed a horny axis .
This view is opposed to that of Kolliker , who considers that Benilla is related to the Penniformes only through a primitive simple " .
" ( 21 .
) The following section contains a brief discussion of the bilateral symmetry , which is strongly exhibited , both in the individual polyps and in the entire colony .
It is shown that in both .cases the bilateral structure is correlated with a bilateral environment , which indicates a causal relation between the two j and I conclude that the bilateral environment determines the bilateral structure .
( 22 .
) The last section contains a discussion of the polymorphism \#166 ; of Benilla .
.An attempt is made to show that the zooids are probably not degenerated polyps but buds in a state of arrested development , whose direct ancestors never possessed a more highly organised .structure than at present .
Other theoretical questions suggested by the investigation are discussed under the various sections in the body of the paper .
II .
" On the Morphology and the Development of the Perithe-ciuin of Meliola , a Genus of Tropical Epiphyllous Fungi .
" By H. Marshall Ward , B.A. , Fellow of Owens College , Victoria University ; late Cryptogamist to the Ceylon Government .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , F.R.S. Received November 28 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) The author has investigated the life-history , structure , and development of several species of these remarkable epiphytic fungi .
The

