I. " On some Compounds and Derivatives of Glyoxylic Acid .
" By HENRY DEBUS , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received December 31 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) Glyoxylic acid contains one atom of oxygen less than oxalic acid , and may be considered as glycolic acid minus two atoms of hydrogen .
It therefore bears to these two acids the same relation that oil of bitter almonds does to benzoic acid and benzylic alcohol .
On another occasion* it has been shown to possess other properties in common with hydride of benzoyl .
Dilute nitric acid , for instance , oxidizes glyoxylic acid to oxalic acid , and hydrate of potash converts it into glycolic acid and oxalic acid .
The same reagents produce with oil of bitter almonds benzoic acid , benzoate of potash , and benzylic alcohol .
C,2203 + HNO3 = C , H2 04 +H NO , , Glyoxylic acid .
Oxalic acid .
C7H60 + HNO = C7H602 + HNO , , Hydride of Benzoic acid .
benzoyl .
2C2 , H203 +3KHO = C2 , H3KO+C , K,0 , 4 2H,0 , Glycolate of Oxalate of potash .
potash .
2(C7 H60 ) + KHO = C7H , KO , +C I-O .
Hydride of Benzoate of Benzylic benzoyl .
potash .
alcohol .
In the memoir of which this is an abstract certain properties of glyoxylic acid are described which still more intimately connect this body with the class of the aldehydes , so as to leave no doubt as to its position in the system of organic substances .
Glyoxylates and sulphites have a strong tendency to combine .
Glyoxylic acid expels one-half only of the sulphurous acid from a given quantity of sulphite of soda , and forms the substance represented by the formula Na HS3+ C , H Na O3 ; an excess of sulphurous acid , on the other hand , expels one-half of the acid in glyoxylate of lime , producing Ca HS 03 + C , H Ca 0 , .
These salts crystallize well and are very stable .
Sulphuretted hydrogen and glyoxylate of lime exchange sulphur and oxygen , water and a new compound , C , 2 Ca 5 } +31H30 , being the result .
The sulphur acid in the latter salt seems to bear to glyoxylic acid a relation similar to that in which triacetic acid stands to acetic acid .
Glyoxylic acid itself is decomposed by sulphuretted hydrogen , a new crystallizable acid being produced .
Ammonia forms definite compounds with glyoxylates .
The following of them were investigated:--two bodies formed from NH , and glyoxylate of lime , 3(C H Ca O ) , 2N H , , and 3 ( C , H Ca 3 ) , 2N H , + H[ 0 , one silver and one lead compound .
These derivatives are very unstable , but the products of their decomposition could not be obtained in a pure state .
Hydrogen in statu nascendi combines with glyoxylic acid and converts it into glycolic acid , C,2H,03 + H , = C , H,40 Glycolic acid .
This transformation was brought about by dissolving zinc in dilute glyoxylic acid .
Glycolic acid , glyoxylic acid , and oxalic acid therefore possess , as regards composition and some other essential properties , the same connexion as ethylic alcohol , acetic aldehyde , and acetic acid .
The differences between the two series arise from the greater number of oxygen-atoms in the molecules of the first three bodies .

