]\gt ; Preliminary on the tional Iof By Major P. A. ) , F.R.S. ( Received October 8 , \mdash ; Read December 12 , 1907 .
) lfy object is to present a theory of operational invariants for the binary quantic of order .
Many of the results that are here given have been explicitly or implicitly yiven in the works of Cayley , Clebsch , Gordan , and other writers , but not from the present point of view or in the conve1lient notation that will be adopted .
Some quite new results are reached , will be found to throw much light upon the wolk of others .
1 .
In the algebraic theory we take the quantic to be and , as alternative symbolic letters to We then have symbolic factol .
S of two types , , the snffix type , , and the bracketed or determinant type ( ab ) .
In fact , for the substitution ' .
the detel'minant of which is have ; where ( AB ) .
The real of is I write symbolically ; whence it is readily seen that 1 , are cogredient to ; and that are cogredient to ; 152 Majol P. A. MacMahon .
On the [ Oct. 8 , and that thus we obtain the new invariant symbolic factors , To this clear , I write the symbolic letters in two rows\mdash ; that 1etters which acontragredient DeterminantreS eemark tetters iredi tandwhere dernative ltersAn invariant f invariant symbolic factol .
S are obtalned from any two letters in the same row , and suffix lnvarlant symbolic factors from any two letters in different rows .
different letters , there will be invariant symbolic As regards any two letters in the first , the substitution gives , the power of the modulus for transformation ' unity .
For any two letters in the second row , the power of the modulus negative unity .
For an two letters in different rows the invariance is absolute , In a symbolic product absolute invariance is secured when the number of determinant factors drawn from the first is equal to the number drawn from the second .
The power of the modulus is always equal to the excess of the number of such factors drawn from the first row over the umber drawn from the second .
We are now able to form a calculus of tional invariants .
All the operational processes at present in existence , including those which produce evectants , provectants , and emanants , the Aronhold process , the process , and transvection , are included in the presenlt enlarged symbolism .
An invariant operator may or may not involve the , and it may be , separable into two portions , one of which involves the variables , while the other does not .
The differe1lt classes will present themselves for examination as the work proceeds .
Those operators which do not involve and may be eneous in the variables , and are then analogous to algebraical 1907 .
] of .
The leading coefficient will then be found to have semi-invariant properties , and , of course , the same also may be said of the end coefficients .
2 .
First consider the covariant of the quantic .
In unsymbolic form it is or a covariant of order ?
and of in the coetticients .
Operating upon any algebraical covariant , if , produces a covariant , it is easy to see that , in many cases , it causes the covariant to vanish .
For , if the operand be of order ) , it is transformed into one of and vanishes for the cases Annihilation takes place when the number of determinant factors in the operand is or In particular , is annihilated and , so is the Hessian ; and so on .
In general , the symbolic factor is concerned with the process known as evectiou .
3 .
Next consider the covariant operator which is lineo-linear in the coefficients , where may be any one of the , 1 , 2 , It has order ) , and therefore converts any covariant of characters into one which has characters .
It is obvious that it annihilates any covariant operand for which .
It is merely necessary to observe that the coefficient of .
vanishes , and this implies the vanishing of the form .
Observe also that if , the form vanishes unless ?
is even .
The case oives the invariant operator which is lineo-linear in the coefficients , viz. , In order to exhibit to the best advantage the unsymbolic forms of these , I write , following as far as possible the notation adopted by other writers , Jado ) mJOJ a SB ? .
os Jasqo suoo s qmXs a uodn uoIlBJsdo a 1907 .
] of Binary From the known properties of , and it is clear that it an nihilates every invariant of Also annihilates the leading coefficient of every covariant .
Hence , when a covariant is the operand , the term involving is absent , and , as a result , the operator annihilates also every coval.iant of Next , in the operator , put .
We see that the sum of the ients of an .
covaria1lt satisfies tlJe equation The solutions of this equation are invariants .
The symbolic form of this operator is ; it annihilates if be any covaliant .
Any covarian has the property that any three consecutive coefficients , satisfy the relation wherein , with ] a negative suffix or with a suffix greater than , is to be put equal to zero .
It will be noted that the operators from their positions in the covariant are themselves seminvariants .
Next take the Hessian of the covariant operatol where the multiplications are purely algebraical and not at all operational .
We have thus an invariant operator of the second order , which will come under view later on in connection with Cayley 's operators .
I pass to the case , which has the unsymbolic form I-3 156 Major P. A. MacMahon .
On tloe [ Oct. 8 , erformed merely uiteral coefficients ohand oerein tultiplications operators ahand operator : and not at all upon the differential inverses . .
I note first that the operator always produces a covariant .
and are seminvariants .
, for example , either annihilates a leading senlinvaliant or converts it into another one .
In the former case the operator ariant causes the operand covariant to vanish ; for and the altelnant of does in fact vanish .
What seminvariants are caused to vanish by this operator ?
The reply to this question is supplied by the theory of symmetric functions .
For make the transformation so that the seminvariants are non-unitary symmetric metionS of the roots of the equation is equivalent to and this again to ) where Take a function\mdash ; ; then and annihilates every symmetric function whose partition contains no part Hence here is equivalent to and all symmetric functions which , when expressed in partitions , contain no part 2 are solutions of the equation B.g. , the riano is annihilated by the quamtic covariant operator , because when transformed , is the symmetric function or ( 3 ) , the number 2 not appearing in the partition .
The covariant of and weight 5 in the 1907 .
] Operational riants of coefficient is not anuihilated because the corresponding partition is ( 32 ) : we learn , moreover , that the result of the operation is the covariant of weight which corresponds to the partition ( 3 ) .
enerally the covariant is converted into The operator , for the quantic , is , on development , of which the symmetry does not escape attention .
6 .
When we obtain an annihilator , which has the form erative for all quantics of order not less than 4 .
7 .
The unsymbolic form of the operator is Major P. A. MacMahon .
On the [ Oct. 8 , It will be observed that , reading the rows down the page , the signs are alternately positive and ative as far as the middle row ( involving ) inclusive ; after that row the signs are alternately negative and positive umtil the last row , which thus has the sign ( It is operative for all quantics of order not less than The jrators 8 .
Cayley , in his introductory memoir upon Quantics , defined a covariant of 1907 .
of .
159 as a form which is annihilated by each of these operators .
the linear transformation are obtained the fornrulae , , from which it is clear that a third annihilator of all covariants , viz. , , should be added to the two of We derive at once the absolute invariant wherein the multiplications are algebraical and not at all operational .
The symbolic form of this is where observe that the absencc of determinant factors shows that it is absolute .
Observe also that we have already obtained the absolute invariant whose symbolic form is ) .
This was obtained as the discriminant of the quadratic covariant It also have been obtained by taking the -discriminant of the second polar of this covariant\mdash ; and since the invariantive form has the unsymbolic expression \ldquo ; we find the covariant under examination by its discriminant .
160 Major P. A. MacMahon .
On the [ Oct. 8 , The Operator 9 .
This is of degree one and weight zelO in the coefficients and of order in the variables ; and may be any of the integers 1 , 2 , 3 , $ Writing , when ; and , the operand any , we obtain which is the Jacobian of and Similarly , if and be any two covariants of orders and in the variables , the operation of upon produces the Jacobian of and and the operation of upon roduces ; , the same Jacobian with negative In other words , the first transvectallt ( iiberschiebung ) of over is obtained by the operation of upon and interchange of the forms merely the of the result .
We may write the theorem in the form Passing to the case , we find and thus , if be any two iants , the econd transvectant of over 1907 .
] Operational Invariants of Binary In general , it is clear that or , as it may be otherwise written , ; showing the transvectant of two forms is obtainable by a pure operation upon either of the forms .
So far as the writer is aware , such a transvection has not hitherto been exhibited as the result of a pure operation .
The importance of the operational invariant is thus evident .
VOL. LXXX.\mdash ; A.

