199 Memorandum on the Kew Heliograph .
( 3 ) It is evident that if we had assumed originally that the skin friction of the air blowing over the earth 's surface obeys the same law that it does in the case of the small scale models which are tested in the laboratory , the analysis given above might be used , in conjunction with the results given in the author 's previous paper , to furnish an explanation of why it is that the wind near the ground is , on the average , about 0*7 of the gradient wind in the case of light winds , or about 0*6 of the gradient wind for strong winds .
Memorandum on the Kew Heliograph .
By Dr. C. Chree , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Kew Observatory .
( Presented to the Gassiot Committee , May 26 , 1915 .
) The Report of the Kew Committee , presented to the Council of the British Association June 27 , 1855 , describes the construction of the apparatus as follows:\#151 ; " The apparatus suggested by Sir John Herschel for photographing the spots on the sun 's disc is progressing under the superintendence of Mr. Warren De la Rue .
The Solar Photographic Telescope is promised by the maker complete in three months . . . .
The diameter of the object glass is 3*4 inches , and its focal length 50 inches ; the image of the sun will be 0*465 inch , but the proposed eyepiece will , with a magnifying power of 25*8 . . .
, increase the image to 12 inches . . . .
The object glass is undercorrected in such a manner as to produce the best practical coincidence of the chemical and visual foci .
... It was originally intended to place the telescope in an observatory 12 feet in diameter , provided with a revolving roof .
... It has , however , been found possible to somewhat alter the construction of the tube , so as to reduce its length sufficiently to allow of the telescope being placed under the dome of the Kew Observatory/ which is only 10 feet in diameter .
" The Report of the Kew Committee for 1856-57 contains the following statement:\#151 ; " On May 20 , 1854 , Benj .
Oliveira , Esq. , F.R.S. , placed the sum of \#163 ; 50 at the disposal of the Council of the Royal Society , to be appropriated during that year in any manner the Council might consider most in harmony with the interests of science .
Mr. Oliveira further stated that he might probably in future years offer a similar sum if the mode of its disposal appeared to Dr. C. Chree .
him eligible , and an application having at the same time been made by the Kew Committee for the sum of \#163 ; 150 , in order to erect a photographic apparatus for registering the position of the spots in the sun 's disc , as suggested by Sir John Herschel , the Council of the Royal Society devoted to this purpose the donation of Mr. Oliveira , and proposes , should it be continued , to apply it for the next two years in replacement of the sum of \#163 ; 100 , which the Council in the meantime advanced from the donation fund of the Royal Society , in order that the undertaking might not be delayed .
This arrangement was approved by Mr. Oliveira , and the apparatus has , under the direction of Warren De la Rue , Esq. , F.R.S. , been completed by Mr. Ross at the cost of about \#163 ; 180 .
" The Report finishes with a description of the telescope and clock .
The Kew Committee Report for the year 1858-59 also refers to the photoheliograph .
It says : " . . .
Since the last meeting of the Association , the unfortunate death of Mr. Welsh has retarded the experiments with the photoheliograph , but from time to time they have been gone on with , at first by Mr. Chambers . . .
and latterly by Mr. Beckley . . .
, and , in order that they might be prosecuted more continuously , the Committee have fitted up a photographic room in close contiguity to the instrument .
" This refers presumably to the wooden structure on the roof , which continued to be known as the " Sun Room " until its demolition in 1913 .
The Report goes on to state that the best photographic definition was obtained when the sensitised plate was from 1/ 10 to 1/ 8 inch beyond the visual focus in the case of a 4-inch picture , and that in this position beautiful pictures of the sun 4 inches in diameter were obtained , which bore magnifying with a low-power lens .
In this way considerable detail was shown on the sun 's surface , while the spots were well defined .
The Report proceeds : " Mr. De la Rue , by combining two pictures obtained by the photoheliograph at an interval of three days , has produced a stereoscopic image of our luminary , which presents to the mind the idea of sphericity .
Under Mr. De la Rue 's direction , Mr. Beckley is making special experiments , having for their object the determination of the kind of sensitive surface best suited for obtaining perfect pictures . . . .
Now that the photographic apparatus has been brought to a workable state , Mr. De la Rue and Mr. Carrington , joint Secretaries of the Astronomical Society , propose to devote their attention to the best means of registering and reducing the results obtained by the instrument , provided the funds which may be necessary are placed at their disposal .
" The Kew Committee Report for 1859-60 says :\#151 ; " The photoheliograph has been an occasional source of occupation to the Mechanical Assistant ; but Memorandum on the Kew Heliograph .
before daily records of the sun 's disc can be obtained , it is absolutely requisite that an assistant should be appointed to aid Mr. Beckley . . . .
Unfortunately , the funds at the disposal of the committee are quite inadequate for this purpose ; and unless a special grant be obtained , the photoheliograph will remain very little used .
At present Mr. Beckley is preparing the instrument , under Mr. De la Rue 's direction , for its intended trip to Spain , for the purpose of photographing the eclipse which takes place on J uly 18 .
The expenses of these preparations , and of the assistants who will accompany Mr. de la Rue , will be defrayed out of the grant of the Royal Society for that object .
" The expedition proved a very successful one .
The results obtained were discussed by Mr. De la Rue in the Bakerian Lecture for 1862 " On the Total Solar Eclipse of July 18,1860 , observed at Rivabellosa , near Miranda de Ebro , in Spain."* The Kew Committee Report for 1861-2 mentions that amongst the exhibits sent from the observatory to the great exhibition in 1861 were some sun pictures taken by the photoheliograph .
A medal was awarded for these to Mr. Beckley .
The same report says the photoheliograph was intended to be used for observing a transit of Mercury and a partial eclipse of the sun , but on both occasions the weather was bad .
It refers to good sun pictures obtained at Kew by Mr. Beckley in November and December .
It adds " The photoheliograph was sent from Kew at the beginning of January to Mr. De la Rue 's observatory , and Mr. Beckley attended at Cranford to assist in erecting and adjusting it to focus . . . .
Altogether up to the September 12 , . . .
177 photographs have been taken on 124 days . . . .
During the month of August , Dr. Sabler , Director of the observatory of Wilna in Russia , resided at Cranford , and received instruction in astronomical photography .
A photoheliograph is being constructed for him under Mr. De la Rue 's superintendence by Mr. Dallmeyer , and a micrometer by the Messrs. Simms .
This heliograph will embody all the . . .
improvements suggested by the experiments with the Kew instrument . . . .
The experience obtained during the past year has been such as to lead Mr. De la Rue to recommend that photographic records should be continued for a series of years at some public observatory .
The Committee . . .
have come to the conclusion that the heliograph might be worked at an annual expense of \#163 ; 200 . . . .
" The Kew Committee Report for 1862\#151 ; 63 mentions that the photoheliograph was brought back from Cranford to Kew in February , 1863 , and again erected in the dome , and that since May 1 it had been continuously worked by a * ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 152 , pp. 333-416 .
Dr. C. Chree .
qualified assistant under Mr. Beckley 's supervision .
Apparently a grant of \#163 ; 150 had been made by the British Association in 1861 for sun pictures , and an earlier grant of \#163 ; 90 had come from the same source for a photographic assistant .
Early in 1863 a grant had also been obtained from the Royal Society .
The report for 1863-64 mentions the employment of Mr. Loewy , " formerly assistant in the Flagstaff Observatory , Melbourne , " in reducing the negatives obtained with the photoheliograph .
Use was made of a micrometer designed by Mr. De la Rue , and that gentleman , it is mentioned , was " having an arrangement made , by means of which the proportion of the sun 's disc obscured by spots may be conveniently measured .
" The Report for 1864-65 mentions the acquisition of valuable material intended for comparison with the records from the photoheliograph .
This consisted of Mr. Carrington 's original drawings , " in which the size and appearance of the spots are delineated with great fidelity , " and also the long series of original drawings made by Hofrath Sehwabe .
The ultimate destination of the latter was apparently the Royal Astronomical Society .
" In order to realise this generous bequest of Hofrath Schwabe , Mr. Loewy . . .
went to Dessau , taking with him a selection of duplicate negatives and prints of the sun , which he presented , in the name of the ( British ) Association , to that gentleman .
" The Report for 1865-66 contains the copy of a letter from Mr. De la Rue referring to enquiries made by Father Secchi about the Solar work at Kew : " The pictures taken by means of the Kew heliograph are all measured by means of my micrometer ; the positions of the spots are then reduced to distances in terms ( fractional parts ) of the sun 's radius , and the angles of position corrected for any error in the position of the wires .
Pictures of the Pagoda* are taken from time to time , and the measurements of the various galleries of the Pagoda serve to determine the optical distortion of the sun 's image , and the corrections to be applied to the sun pictures .
The heliocentric latitudes and longitudes of the spots are then calculated .
The areas of the spots and the penumbra are also measured , and the areas corrected for perspective are tabulated in terms ( fractional parts ) of the area of the sun 's disc .
The areas of the spots , etc. , on all of Carrington 's original pictures have recently been measured .
" The same Report mentions the publication , at the expense of Mr. De la Rue , of a memoir , " Researches on Solar Physics by Warren de la Rue , B. Stewart , and B. Loewy .
First Series : On the Nature of Sunspots , " dealing with the earlier results obtained with the photoheliograph .
Abstracts of this and of * In the Royal Gardens .
Memorandum on the Kew Heliograph .
a " second series " appear in the Royal Society 's ' Proceedings , ' vol. 14 , 1865 .
Subsequently two long papers* by the same three authors contained full particulars of the positions and areas of the sunspots observed with the photoheliograph from 1862 to 1866 .
A list including the above and several other papers relating to the Kew photoheliograph , written by Mr. De la Rue , either alone or in conjunction with Messrs. Stewart and Loewy , will be found in the " History of the Kew Observatory , " by Dr. R. H. S'cott.f The photoheliograph seems to have continued in regular use until March , 1872 , completing 10 full years of observation .
The Report of the Kew Committee for the year ending October 31 , 1873 , mentions that the photoheliograph had been lent to the Astronomer Royal for taking sun pictures at Greenwich .
The instrument seems to have remained at Greenwich until January 5 , 1876 , when it was returned to Kew .
Subsequent to this date the instrument seems only to have been used for visual observations .
The work of measuring sun pictures went on at Kew Observatory for many years , Mr. De la Rue making an annual grant of \#163 ; 100 a year for the purpose from 1874 to 1880 .
According to Dr. R. H. Scott 's " History " Mr. De la Rue 's total disbursements in connection with the photoheliograph exceeded \#163 ; 2000 .
In the Kew Report for 1882 we read : " The measurements and reductions of sunspot positions as determined by means of the Kew pliotoheliograph , from 1864 to 1872 , having been completed for Mr. De la Rue , he has deposited the manuscript with the Council of the Royal Society .
" The instrument was used for many years for the purpose of taking drawings of sunspots after the manner of Schwabe .
Eventually the question of the utility of the results so obtained was raised by the Superintendent in 1897 .
The Kew Committee applied for advice on the subject to several eminent astronomers , but the opinions expressed were somewhat diverse .
A request was then addressed for a formal opinion to the Solar Physics , Committee , and in accordance with the reply received the use of the photoheliograph ceased at the end of 1897 .
Not much had been done for many years previously to keep the instrument , in repair , and except for an occasional cleaning of external parts nothing has been done since .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 159 , pp. 1-110 ( 1869 ) , and vol. 160 , pp. 389-496 ( 1870 ) .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' vol. 39 , pp. 37-86 .
VOL. XCII.\#151 ; A. K

