]\gt ; On the Magnetic Permeabitity of Rocks , On the Relation between the Magnetic Permeability of Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances By A. W. RUCKEB , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 30 , \mdash ; Read June 19 , 1890 .
The investigation , of which an account is given in this paper , was undertaken with the object of throwing light on the causes of local magnetic disturbances .
The two main theories which have hitherto been proposed attribute Iocal perturbations of the needle to earth ourrents and to magnetic rocks respectively .
In the Bakerian Lecture for 1889 ( ' Phil. Trans A. 1890 , p. 53 ) , Dr. Thorpe and I compared the directions of the disturbing magnetic forces found by us to exist near Melton Mowbray and Reading with the results of a survey of the local earth currents made in the neighhood of those places under the direction of Mr. Preece , F.R.S. No connexion could be traced between either the intensities or the directions of the currents and the magnetic forces , and the resuIt of investigation was thus opposed to the view that they are cause and effect .
As far as I am aware , however , no attempt has hitherto been made to determine whether the mere presence in the earth 's magnetic field of such iron-bearing rocks as actually exist , and which must certainly produce magnetic disturbances , suffices to account for such disturbances as are actually .
This enquiry is obviousJy complementary to the comparison of the disturbing forces with the earth currents in the same neighbourhood , but the necessary data have only lately been accumulated .
The recent magnetic survey has for the first time placed at our disposal facts as to the magnitude of the disturbing magnetic forces in the United Kingdom , and the measurements described below give us some idea of the order of the magnitude of the permeabilities of magnetic rocks .
The present investigation is thus divided into two parts , .
:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) A determination of the magnetic susceptibility of a number of rock specimens .
( 2 .
) An enquiry as to the order of the magnitude of the magnetic disturbances which the presence of such rocks in the earth 's magnetic field would produce .
The first part has been carried out by Mr. Highfield , Assoc. N.S. , and Mr. Jarratt , Scholar Elect of Trin .
Coll. , Cambridge , both of whom are stndents in the Physical Laboratory of the Normal School of Science and Royal School of Mines .
I am under a great obligation to these gentlemen for their share in the work .
They constructed all the special apparatus required , and have made all the measurements recorded in this paper , and am indebted to them not only for care and skill , but also for several very useful suggestions .
Prof. Rucker .
On the Ilfagnetic Permeability of In selecting a method , it was important to be able to deal with small ments of rock , and also to avoid the necessity of having to shape them into definite forms .
The magnetic properties of a dis .
rian onJy be ascertained by the examination of a large number of specimens , and this would be practically impossible unless the above conditions were fulfilled .
Great accuracy , though desirable , is not equally important .
Different specimens of the same rock difler so widely in their netic qualities that a comparatively rough measurement is sufficient .
It will , however , be seen in the sequel that the observations made are in satisfactory agreement .
To meet these requirements the ollowing scheme was devised .
series of standard magnetic fluids were made by suspending magnetic oxide of in various proportions of glycerine .
The susceptibilities of these mixtures were determined sbsolutely by the apparatns described below , and specimens of the rocks were compared with them by means of Professor Hughes ' induction balance .
For this purpose , equal volumes of a mixture were ] aced in two i ; imilar testtubes , which were inserted in the cups of the balance , and silence was obtained by means of a compensator .
The rock to be tebted was now immersed in one of the mixtures , and an equal volume of liquid having been abstracted , the zero was redetermined .
Two mixtures were thus found , to the susceptibilities of which that of the rock tlnder experiment was intermediate .
The compensator used , though identical in principle , differed in from that employed by Professor Hughes .
The primary current passed through two solenoids wound opposite directions about the ends of a tube .
Over these another larger tube could be moved in either direction , and round it another solenoid was wound which formed part of the secondary circuit .
The position of this secondary solenoid was read off on a milli metre scale attached to the exterior of the inner tube .
The two coils tended to produce induced currents in opposite direc tions , and thus , by moving the secondary coil in one direction or the other , silence could be obtained .
If and are the distances ( measured in opposite directions ) through which the compensator bad to be moved to produce silence when the specimen was introduced into the first and second liquid My thanks are due to Professor Judd , F.R.S. , for the large number of rock specimens which he has placed at my disposal .
Nearly all which have been used have been provided by him .
This aid has been especially important from the fact that the attention which he has paid to the geology of the West of Scotland has made his collections rich in basaltic rocks gathered from that district , which is within the area of the recent magnetic survey , and is remarkable for the magnitude , not only of the local , but also of the regional , magnetic disturbances of which it is the seat .
He has also been good enough to have sections made of a number of the rocks examined by the induction balaIJce .
Some of the results thus obtained are referred to below , but we hope to extend this part of the enquiry in the immediate future .
PART I.\mdash ; On the Magnehc Susceptioilite/ of Rocks .
The apparatus used for determining the absolute susceptibilities of the is shown in fig. 2 .
Primarily it consisted of a magnet attached to a mirror which was delicately suspended in a glass case by means of a quartz fibre .
Two large solenoids wound upon glass tubes were placed at equal distances east and west of the needle .
A smaller tube , which could be filled with any of the mixtures , was arranged so as to slide into and out of either solenoid .
The deflections when the tube was inserted first into one solenoid and then into the other were noted , and from these the susceptibility of the mixture could be calculated when the strength of the field in which the magnet was suspended was known .
The necessity for the determination of this was obviated by also deflecting the maguet by a small solenoid , the moment of which was calculated from the number of coils , the length , and the strength of the current flowing through it .
In the figure , represe1lts the magnetometer , and SS the two large solenoids into which the tube containing the liquid is capable of sliding .
The ends solenoids proiected for some 7 or 8 cm .
beyond the ends of the tube , which was always brought up to the same position within the solenoids by means of fiducial marks .
The sensitiveness of the magnetometer was adjusted by a control magnet placed above it , acting so as to reduce the earth 's Prof. Rucker .
On the Magnetic Permeability of Fro .
2 .
field .
Iu this way an oscillation-period of 25 seconds could be tained , although it was found in practice to be unnecessary to increase it beyond about 10 seconds .
At there is a key which divides the current , part of which goes through the two large solenoids , flow ing in the same direction in each , and thence through the galvanometer back to ths battery .
Another part goes through the reversing key to the small deflecting solenoid and bhence through the Post Office bridgs back to the battery .
The resistance used in the Post Office bridge was about 200 ohms , while that of the main circuit about 10 ohms , so that the amount of current was comparatively small ; nevertheless , to prevent any error being thus caused , another shunt circuit , of resistance , equal to that the Post Office bridge , was introduced .
through which the current passed when the small solenoid was not in use .
As the effects produced by the two principal solenoids on the netometer were not exactly balanced when they were placed at , as given by the magnetometer , having been , the apparatus was so arranged that the zero did not altel when the current was put on , or , or reversed .
The tube was now inseI'ted into each of the solenoids in turn , the deflections were noted , and afterwards the zero was again taken to show that no change had occurred during the experiment .
The shunt was then thrown out , and the circuit containing the small solenoid put in , the resistance in the Post Office bridge having been previously arranged so as to give a deflection of much the same magnitude as that due to the introduction of the tube containing the mixture of magnetic oxide and glycerine .
Knowing the deflection which is given by a solenoid of known moment , and that produced by the introduction of a definite amount of mixture under the same conditions as regards the sensibility of the magneto. .
meter , we are able to calculate the susceptibility of the mixture , as follows : \mdash ; Let be the length of the tube .
the -ordinates of the centre of the magnet referred to three rectangular axes , passing through the middle point of the axis of the tube , parallel to its length , and perpendicular to its length in the horizontal and vertical directions respectively .
, the distances from the centre of the magnet of the feet of the perpendiculars let fall from the ends of the tube on the horizontal plane through the magnet .
It is then easy to show that if the length of the magnet is small as compared with , and if be the strength of the pole induced at the end of the tube , whore is the strength of the field in which the magnet is placed , the deflection produced by the introduction of the tubc containing the liquid into the solenoid , the distance of the scale from the magnet , Prof. Rucker .
On the agnetic Permeability of and With the distances actually adopted in one experiment , 000170 , cm .
, cm .
Hence , the term M. is small , and may be neglected , and , therefore , If I be the intensity of magnetisation of the liquid , A the area of the tube , the number of urns per cm .
in the solenoid , the strength the current in absolute units , the susceptibility of the liquid , D. ' where 8 . .
N. .
D. A is consbant for any one position of the paratus , and say ; therefore The solenoids were practically identical in construction , and if be the algebraical diflerence of the deflections right and left when the tube is introduced into the two solenoids , To determine the auxiliary solenoid was used .
It was placed perpendicular to the axis of the magnet , which bisected it .
Its Iength being , number of turns per cm .
, area , the distance of its from the centre of the , and the Deing and to the left and to the right respectively , when the current circulated through it , . .
Hence , ff Rocks and Regionat Magnetic Disturbances .
or , since the currents varied inversely as the resistances of the principal and shunt circuits , where is a constant depending on the dimensions and resistances of the ious parts of the apparatus .
In one series of experiments , chosen haphazard for stration .
the values of the different quantities were as follows.'\mdash ; cm .
, cm .
, cm .
; therefore The resistancs of the principal circuit ohms , shuut , , , , sq .
cm .
, sq .
cm .
, cm .
, cm .
, cm .
, cm .
, cm .
; therefore In each experiment a deflection was the mean of two taken with the current direct , and reversed when the tube ; in each solenoid , and with the current direct and reversed the case of the anxiliary solenoid .
The effect of the earth 's netic field was thus eliminated .
Various possible sources of error had to be investigated .
the first place , the suspended magnetic oxide might gradually } in the tubes , or , under the influence of the current , the particles nlihto tend to set theotselves with .
axes parallel to the axis of the solenoid , as in Sir William Grove 's well-known lecture experiment .
These effects were most to be feared in the case of the strong mixtures .
It was found that if the magnetic oxide were dried it caked and it was impossible afterwards to suspend it in a state of fine and equal division in the glycerine .
Hence the mixtures were made by mingling known volumes of one standard mixture of magnetic oxide and water with .
Thus the stron mixtures were the more aqueous , and therefore the less viscous .
To investigate the possible error due to settling , the experiments were made:\mdash ; The mixtures were alloweci to remain in the tube for minutes : no difference in the deflection could be detected in the case of the weaker mixtures ; but for the strorlgest we obtained the following results .
Tho deflections are throughout measured in cm .
Prof. Bucker .
On the Jfagnetic Permeability of Zero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
000 Deflection with tube in . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
after 30 mins. . .
Zero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deflection with tube in . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
after 30 mins. . .
, , During the first few minutes no appreciable falling off was observed , so that , as the time required for an experiment does not exceed a minute or two , any error from this cause may be neglected .
Care was also taken to rotate the tubes frequently , and to empty them and pour the liquid in again short .
In order to test the accuracy of the whole arrangement , several series of experiments were made with the apparatus set up in different positions , and the values obtained were such as to show that no serious discrepancy existed .
In the table the fractions in there first column are the ratios of the volumes of the standard mixture of water and magnetic oxide to that of the glycerine , and they may therefore be called the strengths of the mixtures .
In the other columns are the susceptibilities obtained in each case with a completely different arrangemenb of the apparatus .
Six weeks after the last of the preceding series had been taken , another set of experime1lts was made in order to test the ) ility of the magnetic properties of the mixtures .
No change whatever could be detected , as will be seen from the following table of results:\mdash ; volumes used ; but , as the susceptibility of each mixture is absolutely determined without reference to its supposed composibion , this will not affect the accuracy of the results .
The numbers in the last column are consistent with the view that the susceptibility of any mixture varies directly as the percentage of magnetic oxide which it contains .
The matter may be tber tested by means of the sets of experiments described immediately below , in which the susceptibilities of three of the liquids ( including the weakest and the strongest mixtures ) were again measul.ed .
The mean results are as ollows :\mdash ; Strength .
Mean value of .
In this case the strongest mixture gives the smallest resuIt .
On the wholo , then , and for the purposes of this investigation , the values of must be considered as independent of the strength of the mixture .
Any difference which exists could only be certainly detected by a very careful determination of the quantity of magnetic oxide present in the unit of volume in each case .
Since this law holds good within the limits of the series of liquids the susceptiVOL .
XLVIU .
2 Prof. Rucker .
On the Magnetic Permeability of bilities of whioh could be accurately determined , it may be safely inferl'ed that for weaker , at any rate , it will still be true , and so , number of weaker than one-fifth were prepared , and their susceptibilities calculated by proportion from those of the ronger ones .
; so will , however , be .
subject to the mixing .
Fin , nlly , a series of experiments , referred to above , was made to determine whether the permeabilities of the mixtures varied with the force .
The susceptibilities obtained when 2 , 3 , and 6 Grove 's cells were used in turn are given in the following table:\mdash ; The sums of the significant figures in the three columns are 488 , and 476 respectively , thus indicating a slight increase of permeability with the magnetic force .
The differences between the individual observations are , however , too great to allow us to rely on this resuIt , and the table can only be considered as proving that no serious will occur if we assume that the permeabilities of the mixtures are independent of the letic f [ Added Sept. 12 , 1890.\mdash ; Experiments made afterwards confirmed this view and extended ( he range over which its icuracy was tested .
The weakest field employed was about twice the earth 's field in the United Kingdom ] It would have been difficult to accurate results with a weaker field , but as the law of ality between the netic force and the induction appeal .
S to hold very approximately for forces between and C.G.S. units , it is probable that it is also valid for smaller values .
It is true Silow ( ' Wiedemann 's Annalen , ' vol. 11 .
1880 , p. S30 ) has stated that the susceptibility of ferric chloride is a maximum when the inducing is about C.G.S. unit , and that for that value it is between two and hree times as great as for fields at strengths s1lch as those at which we have experimented , but the change in a range of magnetic force much less to was very marked .
between forces of about and 2.5 , the susceptibility aItered by about 1.3 per ( .ent .
An effect sucl ] as this could not possibly have escaped our notice , and there can be no doubt that for forces such as those with which we have dealt the susceptil)ility of magnetite Rocks Regionat Magnwtic Disburbances .
515 very slowly , and that the variation is not sufficient to affect seriously the argument of paper .
We vow turn to the method of comparing the susceptibilities of the rock specimens with those of the liquid by means of Professor Hughes ' duction balance .
In the first place it 1s necessary to make certain that the effects observed were dne only to the permeabilities , and not to the conductivities , of the bodies under vestigation .
The weaker liquids were practically non-conductors , but the stronger ones conducted feebly .
When , howe , a solution of salt in water , of rather greater conduc- tivity than the strongest mixture , was introduced the balance , which had previously been adjusted , no sound could be detected , thereby proving that the very different effects obtained with the gnetic oxide were not , in any way , due to Foucault currents in the mixture .
Two of the rocks which produced the greatest effect the balance were also chipped out into the form of horse-shoes , and by dipping the ends two mercury cups or into two cups containing acid and water , they were used to complete circuits , in which a mirror galvanometer was cluded .
They appe , as thus tested , to non-conductors .
We are , therefore , oonfident chat the experiments are not vitiated by Foucault currents set up either the liquids or the rocks .
The first test applied to the method was to measul'e by the aid of the balance the susceptibilities of the different ures relatively to each other .
in the case of three liquids , and , say , the susceptibility of was found by using the values of the suscoptibilities of which had been obtained by the absolute method .
In the following table the numbers obtained ( iompared with those given directly by the absolute method :\mdash ; The agreement betweell the last two coIumns is sufficient to the induction balance method .
strengths of the fields in the balance were diiferent from those employed in the absolute method , .
Rucker .
On the agnetic Permeabilitef of preciable error .
Even if the magnetic force and the induction striotly , the ratio of the ities of the .
to the degree of accuracy attained , the same in the balance as in the solenoid .
Finally , the was applied to a specimen of basalt which Professors } and Rucker had from the Island of Canna , in the West of Scotland .
A picce had been cut into the form of a ular bar , and its magnetic prop had been in .
vestigated by Dr. Hoffert .
His experiments are described in the ublished account of the netic survey Phil. Trans .
permanent magnetisation was determined by three m'ethods , and susceptibility was found from the times of vibration when bar was suspended in a known magnetic field with the of permanent duced mation alternately coincident and opposed .
Dr. Hoffert found that the value of was about , the paricnlar bar used by him has been mislaid , but we have measured the permeability of another fragment of the same specimen , aIJd find\mdash ; ations to be described below prove that differences such as this exist between neus of the same rock .
We do not therefore these numbers giving any test of the accuracy either of Dr. Hoffert 's or our own observations , but liLe agreement between them is sufficient to prove that there can be no doubt as to the order of the magnitudes of the quantities under discussion .
The range over which the instrument could be employed was between snsceptibilities about five times greater and ten less than of Canna basalb , i.e. , from about to .
The igher of these values could only be obtained by extrapolation , as quids of such oreat permea'oility could only be formed by using so small a of glycerine that the magnetic oxide settled too quickly to enable us to obtain reliable resuIts .
In the tables giveu below , the statement that the magnetic susceptibility of a substance is zero means only that it is distinctly less than that of the weakest liquid employed , i.e. , than about .
The details of a experiment are givea by way of example .
The readings of the pensator scale are in centimetres Experiment .
volumes of the liquid of strength 2/ 9 were placed in test tubes in the two arms of the balance .
Zero readings Meau Equal volumes of the liquid of vere now takelT .
Zero .
lIean The same specimen of was now placed in the left-Land testtube , after having been ashed and dried .
Readings . .
Mcan Hence , by the formula given On the whole then , think that the ions .
tesIs ve beeu applied to it that the nployed fulfils lequired conditlous very satisfactorily .
It is not ] of lef ; ults of the laHt degree of accuracy , but it enables to measuro quickly and ( iertainly , with only a mall pc rceIttage c , the pe of rock specimens the bour and involved in shaping them into definite eometl i forms .
The method , too , has the advanta , that , once the pormcabilities of the standard liquids deteYmined , the apparatus can used anywhere .
If therefore it were desirable to in{titutc a close comparison between the gnetic disturbances and the permeabilibies of the rocks in a given district , and it mportallt that the investigator should become at lainted with his resuIts , it would be quite to transport required to the scene of the investigation , and to determine the ) netic properties of the specimens in any enient r ) within few hours of ttoeir collection .
Our observations ou .
be Prof. Rucker .
On the of roups , according as they were non-magnetic , magnetic but no basaltic , basaltic .
Of first group , we tried a number of specimens , many of which were a priori certain not to be magnetic .
Some of them , just as likely to be as the magnetic ; and the fact , therefore , that they have been tried , and produce no eifect , engthens the } , measurement of the permeabilities was not affected by the conductivities of the specimens .
Among those submitted to experiment were limestones , sandstones , mica- and hornblende-schists , granite with tourmaline , red granite , trachyte , rhyolite , gabbro , muscovite granite , ] lianite , various dioritefi , and matite .
specimens of Archaean gneiss , brought by Dr. Thorpe from Maddy , in the Outer Hebrides , were found to be practically nonhave also , through the kindness of Professor Judd , had the opportunity of testing the specimens of Silurian rocko and red sandstones from the Palaeozoic ridge by deep borings near London .
Fragments from Kentish Town , Richmond , Meux:s Brewery , and Ware tried and found to be non-magnetic .
Turning next to specimens of other than basaltic rocks which were found to be magnetic , we ined the resuIts:\mdash ; lite Dolerite . . . . . . . . . .
94 .
39 nphyre .
39 granite .
24 enite . . . . . . . . . .
]04 It will be nobiced that several of these are rocks of the same kiud those of which other specimens were to be non-magnetic .
This is an example of the fact that the permeabilities of different portions of the same rock are very various , and that no conclusion can be drawn unless a large number of specimens have been examined .
Special attelltion having been given in the recent magnetic survey to the magnetic disturbances by the Malvern Hills , it was thought that a detailed investigation of their magnetic would be .
Mr. Highfield , therefore , paid a visit to Malvern for the of collecting .
The position at which any specinlen w was marked on the spot on an Ordnance ) ried f. the pose .
It is , perhaps , hardly necesspecimen was .
Care was taketl that the specimens should uot be weathered .
It may be well to add that the Malvern Hills a range of hornblendic rocks , on the east by a great fault , which divides them from the red marls of the Valley of the SeverIl .
On the side the ncous rocks emerge from under Prof. Rucker .
On th Magnetic of limestone and Silurian rocks , which are bent upwards on their The collection of specimens was composed rely of the crystalline rocks : it was begun at the extxeme north end of the range , and continued as far south as the Herefordshire Beacon , a distance about 5 miles .
In most cases two specimens were taken at each spot , and in the table these are indicated by the same number followed by different letters .
As the susceptibilities of the ocks varied so considerably , Professor Judd was good enough to have sections made of some of those which diffsred most widely .
The following report made by him shows a satisfactory agreement between the indications of the induction balance and microscopic examinations:\mdash ; As was to be expected , basio rocks proved to be the most strongly magnetic ; but it is well at once to emphasise the fact that powerful permanent magnetisation no proof of high permeability .
Thus a specimen of rock from the Peak of the Island of Ascension , kindly supplied to us for examination by Captain Creak , F.R.S. , strongly attracted and repelled the pole of a compass needle .
Its susceptibility , however , was only moderately large , being We have collected in the following table the resuIts of our measurements on basic rocks:\mdash ; These results are sufficiently numerous to justify their employment in the calculations which follow .
They prove that , in spite of great variations between individual specimens , the average susceptibility of Prof. Rucker .
On the Iagnetic Permeability of basic rocks is relatively very bigh .
The of all the speci .
mens from the west of Scotland and from Ireland is .
If we exclude the Giant 's Causeway and Staffa , it is , which is thus the average of all the specimens tested from a district nearly 70 miles in .
There would , therefore , be absurd in the supposition that ally large values obtained over equally large areas elsewhere ; but in the calculations assumed susceptibility is the much smaller value given by the Mull specimens , An expcriment was made on the effects of temperature on the permeability of magnetite .
It was only of a rough preliminary kind , but the result was quite clear , and further and more experiments on the same point are about to be undertaken in the boratory at South The interior of one of the cups of the Hugbes ' induction balance was with asbestos cloth , and a meant of non-magnetic granite which had been heated to incipient redness in the flame of a Bunsen was into it .
The balance which had been ously obtained was quite turbed .
The same experiment was then repeated with a picce of netite .
The introduction of the at omee caused the telephone to " " Ppeak but silence was quickly obtained by turning the screw by which the parallelism of the imary and secondary coils is secured .
The compensator used in the previous experiments had not range , and readings wele taken by a paper scale of degTees attached to the screw head .
As the magnetite cooled the zero altered , and , in order to maintain silence , it was necessary to keep tut'1ling the screw in the direction which indicaled that the permeability of the specimen was decreasing .
The stone was allowed to cooI for half an hour , and the total alteration of the zero measured .
It was then removed altogether , and the new position of silence found .
In one experiment the following values were obtained .
The figures in the second column indicate the number of rees t which the screw was turned from the first zero obtained after the introduction of the hot magnetite:\mdash ; Readin Magnetite , hot . . . . .
oold. . . .
removed 790 This result proves that , as in the case of iron , the permeability of magnetite increases as temperatnre rises , the increase in the experiment just ibed being about 70 per cent. A second experitemperature is reached , it will cease to be netic .
This point we hope to further .
II.\mdash ; On Iagnetic D In attempting to base calculations upon the permeabilities measured by Messrs. Highfield and Jalratt , it is to make some tions as to the magnetic state of the earth 's crust .
The increase of temperature wibh depth is about 1o C. for every 90 feeb , and if this rate obtains for a depth of several tbotlsand feet , the temperature would be C. at 12 miles , or about 20 kilos .
from the surface .
Iron ceases to be metic b C. and C. , and it seems , therefore , fair to that below this depth gnetic matter does not .
Whether this be so or not , it is necessal'y to suppose that at some given distance filom the surface the may be egarded as magnetically uniform .
In selecting a distance for purposes of calculation relations berween the magnetic properties of iron and afford porhaps the most trustworthy guide .
Let then a level surface be regal'ded as homogeneous .
It may be called the maqnetic floor .
Let matter , metised by the 's induction , be supposed to be placed upon it , and let calcnlations be based on the hypothesis that the perm ) abilities with which we have to deal differ but little from unity .
The disturbance produced by the magnetio mass will be the whether the magnetic floor is magnetic or non..magnetic ; for the same coating of south hemisphere magnetism , which in the latter case will represent the eifects of the earth 's induction on the lower surface of the mass , will represent the modification it produces the magnetisation of the flool if the latter is netic .
The nces which have to be explained are of two kinds , those in which a ve17 great range of vertical force occurs within a limited area , and thoss in which a moderately value of vertical disturbance occurs over a large area .
all cases the effects of the upper and lowor of the disturbing masses will be opposed , the force obsorved will be the same if the disturbance is produced by similar masses , distances of which from the attracting point are proportional to their lineal dimensions .
Even supposing , therefore , the shape and tho agnetici properties of mass are known , we learn nothing as to its proximity to the surface from the nitude of tho disturbing forccl at a single station .
Prof. Rucker .
On the Magnetic Permeability of On the other hand , the absence of vertical disturbing force does not necessarily prove that no magnetic matter exists between the magnetic floor and the point of observation .
The upper and lower rfaces of a plate , of which the horizontal dimensions are very large compared with the distance of either from the surface , would produce equal and opposite effects over the central parts .
approaching the plate from a distance the vertical disturbing force would increase near the edge , and then die out as the centre was approached , the phenomena so far corresponding with those which occur when the observer crosses an underground ridge of gnetic rocks .
The two cases , however , could be distinguished by the fact that the direction of the horizontal forces would be the same on both sides of the line of maxim vertical force if the disturbance were due to the edge of a plate , but different if it were produced by a magnetic I now propose , therefore ( 1 ) , to describe the distribution of vertical force disturbance over England and Wales ; ( 2 ) to show that the presence eath the snrface of ocks which possessed situ the same magnetic pl.operties as basic rocks on the surface would produce disturbing forces the same order as those which are actualIy observed .
In discussing the first point , it will be convenient to measure disturbances or departures of the magnetic force from its normal calcuated vaJue as of C.G.S. or metric unit , which may be regarded as the of disturbing force .
Vertical distm.bing forces are positive when they urge a north-seeking pole downwards .
It is fully explained in the published account of the magnetic survey that vertical force disturbaness are measured from an arbitrary datum , and that there is no proof that this is uniform all over the kingdom .
The largest area of positive disturbance occurs the east and south-east of ngland .
It extends from the English Channel to the north of kshire , i.e. , abont 230 miles north and south , and in parts it is ) miles wide .
It is , however , deeply cut into by a narrow gulf-like region of negative disturbance the Midlands , and by others in Kent , Sussex , and South Lincolnshire .
Taking this into account , and also the fact that in the north it is very narrow , it is fair to assume that it may be approximately reprcsented by a ngular figure 180 miles long and 108 miles wide .
The regions of negative vertical force which bound it are relatively small , say from 15 to about 50 miles wide in the west , while to the north they are wider .
To the east and south the sea prevents our determining the xact limits of the disfrict .
It , be taken as a rough but teau to be indefinitelv extended nolth and south .
values obtained are , however , affected by the mptions we make as to the magnetic chalacter of the ground east and west of the ldel .
consideration .
The first hypothesis made is external houndarics of the trench are narrow plateaux , and that beyond them is no magnetic matter .
Afterwards , we will suppose that they extend to infinity at a uniform height above the magnetic floor .
We may also , at first , assume that the of the netic masses vertical , and that they are magnetised by the vertical component of he earth 's field only .
It will be convenienl to express all disbances iu kilometres , and , as above stated , all forces in telms of C.G.S. or metric unit .
The mean values of all the positive and all the negave vertical force disturbances in England and Wales , recorded by Dr. Thorpe myself , are and -80 respectively , giving an range of about 140 .
A differetlce of this order can be obtained if we suppose that the slabs of magnetic matter are 16 kilom .
( or about 10 miles ) thick , and that thus the upper faces are 4 kilom .
( or about miles ) from the surface of the earth .
The lents of the attraction exerted on a point by a 1'ectangular plate isting of an uniform layer of attracting of density may be expressed as follows:\mdash ; Let planes be drawn through the point perpendiculal to the plate and parallel to its edges .
Let the points in which these meet the edges or edges produced of the rectangle be joined to the point , and let these make angles and and with the normal .
Then the components perpendicular to the plate and parallel to it and to the plane of the 's are \mdash ; siu } , Prof. Rucker .
On , Magnetic Fer.meability of and The component parallel to the plane of the rectangle and bo that of the 's is obtained from last by for and vice versed .
In the particular case for which and , the expressions reduce to and ] In the case under consideration these must } ) doubled , as the plate is supposed to extcnd both north and soilth of the point .
If we assume the magnetic susceptibility of the mass to be which is about the mean value of the Mull basic rocks , and take verticnl component of earth 's field as C.G.S. uIlits , ve get\mdash ; so that if is expressed in degrees Hence the disturbance produced is and 338 ullits of disturbing for respectively .
means of these expressions we may calculate tlJe attractions exerted at points on the surface 10 kilom .
apart by horizontal plates of gnetic " " matter " " of opposite kinds 60 kilom .
wide , and of indefinite length at depths of 4 and 20 kilom .
respectively .
Subtracting the mbers given by the lower from those deduced from the upper , we get the resultant vertical and horizonal { orces due to the opposite magnetisation of the upper and lower surfaces .
The minor plateaux are supposed to consist of two such plates , the principal plateaux of three plates side by side .
The resultant force at any point is obtained by adding , algebraically , the components due to each mass .
Fig. 3 represents the two cases which have been submitted to calculation .
They differ only in that the magnetic matter outside the central plateau is supposed , in the one case , to be limited , in the other , to be unlimited , in an east and west direction .
The forces are determined for points on the surface 10 kilom .
apart .
NAGNETIC Thus being over the outer edge of the encb , 3 is over middle of the trencb , 6 over the edge of the plateau , and 15 over its centre .
The forces are expressed in terms of units of disturbing force or C.G.S. unit .
Horizontal forces are positive which urge a north-seeking pole towards the central plateau .
Vertical forces posit , ive which act downwards as above stated .
I. . .
Other nces may be imagined which give similar resuIts .
If the central stood alone , surrounded by non-magnetic matter , the meaIl range , as calculated above between the vertical forces over it and those observed within the 60 kilom .
( 36 miles ) of its edge , would be 127 .
If the edge of the valley , instead of being vertic , , wers vertical for 10 kilom .
only , and then sloped upwards an ation of 1 , the range would be 107 .
Prof. Rucker .
On the lagnetic Permeability of Although , therefore , the method of testing the is necessarily very rough , it is nevertheless evident that the range of the vertical forces over a mass of magnetic matter of almost the same area as the region of positive vertical force disturbance in EngIaud , and within 60 kilom .
of its edge , might agree fairly with the facts if the edges of the mass were , and if its magnetic properties were the same as those of the Mull basaltic rocks .
The observed range is 140 , and hypotheses give values between 107 and It is , however , sufficient to account for the differences of vertical force over large areas .
there are smaller but still large districts in which the vertical force disturbance considerably exceeds the mean , and the explanation of the phenomena by rock magnetism would be imperfect if the calcuIated forces were insufficient to explain the of these .
It might easily be that , to produce an average } ical force distulbance equal to that which obtains over the whole plateau , it was necessary to bring the upper so ltear to the surface of the earth that the remaining depth was insufficient to account for the additional forces in play on the area of greater disturbance within it .
The largest area of very high vertical force which has at present been mapped in detail lies in Lincolnshire and Sonth Yorkshire .
The following table exhibits the names of stations wibhin it , and the vertical force disturbance at each:\mdash ; If these places arc connected by straight lines , an in.egular figure of eight is produced , the area of which is about 425 square miles , or 1100 square kilom .
It is , of course , unlikely that the stations are all close to the edge of the attracting mass , but , on the other haud , it may be deeply cut into by valleys or regions of less disturbance .
latter hypothesis , if correct , would make it easier to explain the forces , whereas an extension of the district beyond the limits actually observed makes any such explanation more difficult .
The distance between the most northerly and most southerly stations ( Sntton-on-Dorwent Market Rasen ) is 45 miles , kilom .
The distance and Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances .
west between Doncaster and Brigg , which are near the centre of the southern loop of the figure of eight is about 27 miles , or 45 kilom .
It may , therefore , fairly be assumed that the order of the forces within the district will be the same as that of those over a rectangle 60 kilom .
in length and 30 in breadth .
The linear dimensions of such a figure are somewhat less than the extreme length and breadth of the district , but its area is times greater .
Let us then superpose upon the plateau a rectangular mass , 60 kilom .
long by 30 broad , and deep , the upper surface of which is , therefore , at a depth of kilom .
or 1638 feet .
The vertical disturbing forces due to this mass along a line passing over its centre and parallel to its longer edge , are as follows:\mdash ; Distances are expressed in kilometres .
Distance .
Force .
Middle . . . .
76 Edge. . . . . .
30 37 Taking the mean of the numbers at the edge and at a distance of 5 kilom .
it as applying to the district between them , the mean of the positive vertical disturbances is 88 .
If this minor mass were placed on the larger one , so that their longer edges were parallel , and that the median line of the smaller mass was 20 kilom .
from the edge of the larger one , thus corresponding with the position 8 in fig. 3 , p. 527 , and if , laslly , the distribution of magnetic matter were as is shown in that figure , then the mean vertical disturbance along the median line of the small mass would be In comparing the observed and calculated values it is convenient to take the me , an force in the negative districts as a datum ; so that the disturbance as calculated is , and as observed Market .
Weighton , Trent , arket Rbutth eurfacesurface tithin 0feet , ncrease torce byThis 1atter.numb.btained buding tsquare atbick , approaching t Prof. Rucker .
On the llllagnetic Permeabitity of 40 .
A mass of magnetic matter in the shape of a frustum of a cone , of which the vertex was in the surface , and the between the generating and median lines , and of which the upper plane surface was 450 feet from surface of the earth , would exert at the vertex a vertical force , thus bringing the total calculated disturbance up to , as against observed at Market Weighton .
Such a cone gives a maximum effect ; but it mnst be remembered that , although no magnetic rocks exist near the surface at Market Weighton , yet the fact that the older rocks approach the surface near that town led Professor Judd to advise its being selected as a station , and it may well be that the underlying netic masses rise steeply in its neighbourhood .
It is a little difficult to , ummarise an argument of this kind , but if we start from the near mean negative disturbance in the " " valley\ldquo ; as a datum , and distinguish the other stations as being over an underground plateau , mountain , and peak respectively , we get the followin results:\mdash ; It is thus possible to imagine a distribution of magnetic matter at depths between 450 feet and 12 miles , and of no greater permeability than Mull basalt , the mere presence of which in the earth 's magnetio field would produce vertical disturbing forces of the same order as those actually observed .
The maximum calculated horizontal forces are larger than any of those which have been measured in England or Wales .
Case I Table , has been adopted as the basis of calculation , and the horizontal disturbing force at the edge of the plateau is thus 227 .
Forces of this magnitude are found in Scotland , but the largest valne in England is 124 at Melton Mowbray .
At the middle of the edge of the smaller mass , on the side on which whoIe , the resultant force would be about 450 , a value which is surpassed only by such as Canna and Soa , which are islands in the West of Scotland .
While , then , in order to account for the high forces , we have been obliged to make favourable assumptions as to the shape of the masses , as to the position of ths smaller on larger mass , and as to the magnetic properties of the rocks , we now find that these lead to possible values of the horizontal turbing force considerably greater than any which have been measured .
The most obvious explanation of the discrepancy is the assumed verticality of the sides of the magnetic massss .
If the sides of the valley sIope for half the height at an inclination of one in ten , as described above ( p. 527 ) , the largest horizontal force due to the plateau at any of the points for which the calcuIation has been made is 123 , as against 227 when the sides are vertical .
It must , however , be remembered that in this case the mean range of vertical forces is reduced from 159 to 107 .
It is not , therefore , convenient to assume that the slopes are very gradual .
The supposition that the main mass is surrounded by magnetic matter of less permeability than itself reduces the horizontal forces , but also reduces the vertical forces below the observed values .
An irregular outline , on the orher hand , might tend to increase the range of the vertical force at points near the while it would diminish the horizontal forces .
It appears on the whole , however , that the gentle slopes or gradual changes of permeability which would reduce the horizontal forces to the observed values , would give vertical forces about too small .
I do not think that this can be considered an unsatisfactory resuIt , bnt I will defer comment upon it in order to turn to another point .
So far , we ha been discussing districts of widespread disturbance .
In Scotland the forces are more localised , but more intense .
The most rapid change of vertical force disturbance which has been measured is in the Southern Hebrides , it varles- from at Loch Boisdale to at Bernera , which is only 20 miles distant .
Dr. Thorpe and I have proved ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 47 ) that a very intense centre of disturbance exists in this neighbourhood , and it is remarkable as being near the highly magnetic rocks of Mull , but , as its effects appear to be more far reaching than those of that island , it is legitimate to assume that it is produced by rocks of exceptional magnetic power .
An equal range of force could , however , be duced by the mean permeability of basalt in the west of Scotland , i.e. , If , as before , we take the attracting mass to be the frustum of 532 Prof. Rucker .
On the Magnetic Permeubihty of cone , of which the vertex is in the surface , the vertical angle is 2 , and the upper and lower faces are and kilom .
from the surface respectively , the force exerted at the vertex is where is the density on the horizontal surface .
If and kilom .
, this gives a vertical disturbing force of 1110 .
By thus assuming a favourable form for the rock mass , it is possible to account the force by means of ordinary basalt , which nowhere approaches the surface nearer than a depth of 500 metres , or about 1600 feet .
Some difficulty may be felt about Ireland , over a large part of which the vertical force disturbance is negative .
If this be regarded as a real upward force , it could only ( on the hypothesis under ation ) exist in the of magnetic matter , which would probably cause more widespread positive disturbance than has been registered .
I am inclined to account for this by a shift in the datum from which the disturbances are measured .
If the calculated vertical forces are all C.G.S. unit too large in Ireland , the vertical disturbance would be nearly everywhere positive .
An error of this sort wo be accounted for by an error of C.G.S. unit in the horizontal force , and this again would correspond to a displacement of the lines of equal horizontal force through 6 miles .
If , however , the error was due to an unfavourable combination of inaccuracies , both in the lines of equal dip and equal horizontal force , this displacement of the lines might be reduced , so that , on the whole , it is not impossible that the datum in Ireland may be 100 units of vertical force disturbance different from that in England .
If this is so , and if the change is gradual across England , the difference between the means of the negative and positive vertical disturbance vould be diminished , and the calculated would be brought into closer accord with the observed range of vertical forces .
As the Malvern Hills have been so carefully studied , it seemed worth while to see when ) the observed deflections of the nesdlc towards the hills could be ac.counted for by their magnetic nature .
It is , however , at once evident that the problem is beset with difficulties .
The permeability of the range appears to be different in different parts , and a mean value will not give accurate results .
The visible mass of igneous rock , supposed to be of mean permeability , is certainly insufficient to account for the observed effects , and if we attempt to base calculations on assumed underground extensions of the mass , they are of course founded on pure hypothesis .
The easiest way of attacking the problem is to calculate the sum of Rocks and Regional Magnetic Distur.bances .
the two attractions exerted on opposite sides of the hills towards them .
ions have been made at four stations , two ( Great Malvern and Malvern Wells ) on the eastern , and two ( Mathon and Green ) on the western , side of the hills .
Great Malvern and Mathon are near the north end of the range , and the sum of the two attractions is C.G.S. unit of force .
Malvern Wells and Colwall Green are near the middle of the range , and the sum of bhe attractions is .
It will thus be seen that at what would , primd facie , have appeared the most favourable position the forces are smaller , but the result accords with the fact that the specimens collect , ed at the north end of the range contained the lar .
quantity of magnetite .
Sections across the range have been published by the Geological Survey , and from these it seems that on the eastern side the wall of igneous rock is nearly vertical , while on the western side it slopes more gradually under the sedimentary rocks , and if continued as ' from the range as our stations ( about a mile and a quarter , kilom it must be at a depth of 2000 feet , or , say , 600 metres .
Assnming , then , that our stations were near the edge of the horizontal extension of the ignoous rocks , and that the latter extend north and south for 8 miles ( 13 kilom I find that the sum of the attractions on opposite sides of the range near its centre , and at points as distant from it as our stations were , is , or as we assume the meam permeability to be\mdash ; That of the three most favourable rock specimens ; ( 2 ) at of all the specimens which possessed measurable permeabilities ; ( 3 ) That of all the specimens obtained .
If these are compared with the observed forces , and , it is seen that , while they are of the ri order of nitude , an exact numerical agreement could only be obtained if we supposed the mean permeability of the range to be somewhat greater than that of its surface , as judged by the specimens collected by Mr. Highfield .
The results may , I think , be considered to support the view that the igneous rock extends laterally at a moderate depth from the urface , at least on the western side of the hills , to a distance of a mile or a mile and a quarter , but probably not much more , from the axis of the range .
In conclusion , then , I am anxious that the purport of the calculations above described should not be misunderstood .
In particular , I do not attempt to specify the depth at which magnetic matter exists where none appears on the surface , in the east of England or elsewhere .
But , in spite of this uncertainty about every detail , the Prof. Rucker .
On the Iagnetic Permeability of estigaiion , I think , supplies fcr the first time a definite answer to the enquiry whether the mere presence in the earth 's magnetic field of concealed magnetic rocks , such as.those which exist on the surface , wouJd suffice to account for the observed local or regional magnetic disturbances in districts the superficial deposits are non-magnetic .
The question is not answered by pointing to the large disturbances produced close to basic rocks , for these may be , and probably often are , due to permanent magnetism .
But , as this is very irregularly disbribubed in the surface rocks , we cannot regard it as a probable cause of widespread disturbance , though locally it may produce very intense effects .
It is , I think , answered in the affirmative by the above discussion .
In gauging the value of the answer , it must be remembered that only one of the rious constants involved has been at our disposal , and it would not have been possible to imitate the observed resuIts by assigning to it appropriate values , whatever arbitrary assumption had been made as to the others .
Thus , in the simple case of a rectangular magnetic slab , the average vertical force produced over it in virtue of the earth 's inductions , depends on five variables , , its length and breadth , the distance of its upper and lower horizontal surfaces from the surface of the earth , and its permeability .
Of these , the first two have been defined by the observed magnibude of the areas of high vertical force .
The depth of the lower surface has not been fixed to suit the exigencies of the argument , but deduced from the temperature at which iron ceases to be magnetic .
The permeability is at most that given by experiment on the specimens of basic rocks from the west of Scotland .
Only one disposable constant rema.ined , , the depth of the upper surface , and by shifting this we can do no mors than raise the average disturbing force to a certain maximum , which might have been much less than the observed disturbances .
As a matter of fact , however , by choosing suitable depths we are able to obtain forces of exactly the right order of magnitude .
With the constHnts chosen there appears to be some difficulty in obtaining correct relative of the vertical and horizontal disturbing forces , though even here , the order of their magni{iude is unaflected .
This is exactly the kind of difficulty which might almost certainly be expected in calculations based only on more or less probable .
It will be diminished by any change which increases the intensity of the calculated forces , and there are several possible causes which might produce such an effect .
Thus no account has been taken of the increase in the permeability of magnetite with temperature .
This is certainly a vera causa , and will tend to bring observation and calculation into closer agreement .
Again , the high specific gravity of the earth , as compared with that high permeability it possesses at high temperatures .
Lastly , the basic rocks of Mull give a much smaller mean value of than those of Sky and Ardnamurchan .
If the underground rocks were as permeable as these , all difficulty would vanish .
On the other hand , there are some considerations which point to the opposite direction .
Thus , Professor Judd informs me that he ] eans to the opimon that ' in igneous magmas subject to the great pressures which obtain at considerable depths iron tends to form silicates rather than magnetic oxide .
If this is , the permeability of the surface rocks may be a maximum rather than a minimum , unless native iron exists in large quantity at great depths .
The effect of pressure on permeability is an unknown factor , which might support or weaken the argument .
Points such as these are , however , outside the scope of this paper .
But , though it is obviously unwise to be dogmatic on a question which is still surrounded by difficulties , I think that the result of the present enquiry is much in favour of the rock-magnetism theory of regional magnetic disturbances .

