On the Lunar AtnmoVspheric Tide at Singapore .
By Captain C. M. ELLIOT , Madras Engineers , F.R.S. Received December 18 , 1851 , -.Read March 11 , 1852 .
Art the commencement of the year 1847 , a paper by Colonel SABINE , R.A. , V.P.R.S. ; , was read before the Royal Society on the Lunar Atmospheric Tide at St. Helena .
The influence of the moon upon the baromYeter , although small in amount , was shdwn in a very striking and decided manner ; for after eliminating the regular diurnal variation , the differences arrang ed in lunar tables showed a decided maximum , both at the superior and inferior culmination of the moon , and a decided minimum at its rising and setting .
The effect which the moon 's position , relatively to the meridian of the place , had upon the barometric pressure , was publicly noticed , about the middle of 1842 , by Captain LEFROY , R.A. , who appears to have had his attention directed to it from the first establishment of the observatory at St. Helena , On the receipt of Colonel SABINE'S paper , I was anxious to ascertain if the fact of the moon 's influence , so clearly and decidedly shown at St. Helena , could be similarly proved by the Singapore barometric observations .
I therefore determined , before leaving England for India , to proceed upon the plan adopted by Colonel SABINE , and in order that a comparison might be made between the results at Singapore and at St. Helena , have copied to a considerable extent the form of the different lunar tables drawn up by him in his very valuable paper .
The observatory at Singapore was in latitude 1ยง 18 ' 32 " north , and longitude 103 ' 56 ' 30 " east of Greenwich .
The cistern of the barometer was a few feet above highwater mark : the barometer was made by NEWMAN : the diameter of the tube =0-532 inch .
The observations of the barometer , by my assistants , were made at every two hours during the whole of 1841 , the early part of 1842 , and that of 1843 ; during the rest of the time , to the close of 1845 , at every hour .
In making out the Tables , showing the moon 's effect upon the barometer , I have only taken complete astronomical days , from noon to noon ; and as Sundays were omitted , and as the observations commenced at midnight on Sunday and terminated at II P.M. 0o1 Saturday , the broken portions of Monday and of Saturday have not been taken into consideration ; the meani , however , of the entire month has been assumed to be identical with the mean of these complete days .
The Barometer Tables , corrected to 320 , having been made out , the mean monthly height of the barometer at each hour was deducted from the height given by observation at the corresponding hours during the month ; if the height of the barometer , at any hour of observation , was less than the mean height at that hour , the difference was put down with the sign- , if greater , with the sign + .
By this process the diurnal variation was eliminated .
The residual quantities were then arranged in Tcables , and the observation corresponding the nearest in time to the moon 's culmination being marked for each day , the whole were again re-arranged in lunar tables as follows : rlwhe moon 's superior culmination was assumed as 0 hour of lunar time , and the differences corresponding to that hour placed in the first column ; the remaining columns were similarly formed .
The means of the sums of these differences are exhibited in Table I. , which consists of two parts , the first part containing the barometric differences at the lunar hours from the superior to the inferior passage , and the second part , from the inferior to the superior passage ; the means for each period of six mouths are shown in the final column of the second part of the Table .
rTdable II .
shows the differences between the mean results and the several numbers in Table I. It must be borne in mind , that had the sets of weekly observations been complete , the sum of the -minus differences would have equalled the plus ones : this , however , is not the case owing to the omissions above noted , and an inequality is thereby produced which occasioned the formation of Table I. , in which the range of the mean values is shown , the lowest number being assumed as zero .
The means of the complete years 1841 , 1844 and 1845 , are shown in Table II .
, ; and as two-hourly observations were taken during the first six months of 1842 and of 1843* , and hourly observations during the latter portions of those years , the results of the first six months of 1842 have been combined with the first six months of 1843 , and the hourly observations of the latter halves of these years have been come bined for the same reason .
In Table IV .
the whole of the two-hourly observations , for a period of twentyfour months , have been added together for a general mean , and ; similarly the whole of the hourly observations for a period of thirty-six months .
The results are exhibited in Plate X. , which is drawn to '001 of barometric pressure to 0'74 of an inch of scale .
Finally , Table V. exhibits the observations of three years combined , so as to show the effect upon the barometer of the moon when similarly situated both in its superior and inferior passage ; and in a column in juxtaposition is placed a similar table derived from two years ' observation at St. Helena , extracted from Colonel SABINE'S valuable paper on the subject ; from which it will be observed that the effect produced by the moon upon the barometer at Singapore , in the vicinity of the Equator , Iis slightly greater than at St. Helena , more distant by 14degrees of latitude .
$ In 1843 , in consequence of a deficiency in the number of assistants ,

