A paper was in part read , entitled , " Further Observations on Voltaic Combinations ; in a letter addressed to Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. F\R.S .
, Fullerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution , &amp;c. &amp;c. " By John Frederick Daniell , Esq. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in King 's College , London .
April 13 , 1837 .
FRANCIS BAILEY , Esq. , V.P. and Treasurer , in the Chair .
Wiliiam Archibald Armstrong White , Esq. , was elected a Fellow of the Society .
The reading of Professor Daniell 's paper on Voltaic Combinations was resumed and concluded .
In the course of an inquiry on the effects of changes of temperature upon voltaic action , the author was led to observe some curious disturbances and divisions of the electric current produced by the battery , arising from secondary combinations ?
the results of which observations form the subject of the present paper .
He found that the resistance to the passage of the current was diminished by dissolving the sulphate of copper which was in contact with the copper in the standard sulphuric acid , instead of water .
The increased effect of the current , as measured by the voltameter , was farther augmented by the heat evolved during the mixture ; and wishing to study the influence of temperature in modifying these effects , the author placed the cells of the battery in a tub , filled with hot water .
On charging the cells with a solution of muriate oi ' am ?
monia in the interior , and aqueous solution of sulphate of copper in the exterior compartment , he observed that a portion of the current is discharged by the water in which the apparatus was immersed ; its passage being indicated by the disengagement of gas betwixt the adjacent cells ; in which case , one of the zinc rods is thrown out of action , and the copper of that cell acts merely as an electrode to the antecedent zinc .
A saturated solution of common salt was next placed in contact with the zinc , while the exterior compartnients of the cells were filled with a saturated aqueous solution of sulphate of copper ?
but the effects were much diminished .
It thus appeared that the substitution of solutions of the muriates for dilute sulphuric acid was in every way disadvantageous ; and it was moreover found that , when the circuit was broken , the copper became seriously injured by their action , and by the formation of a sub ?
muriate of that metal .
Finding that the membranous tubes were unable to resist the action of the acid under the influence of high temperatures , the author substituted for them tubes of porous earthenware , of the same texture as that of which wine-coolers are commonly made , closed at their lower ends , and of the same height as the copper cells .
The bottoms of the latter were fitted with sockets , for the reception of the tubes , and for confining them in their proper places ; the perforated copper plates , or colanders , which held the solid sulphate of copper , passing over their upper ends .
The tubes can be easily removed , and instantly replaced ; and the facility of emptying and refilling them renders the addition of siphon-tubes unnecessary , except in very particular circumstances .
A cir ?
cular steam-vessel of tin plate was then provided , around which the cells could be placed upon blocks of wood , and closed in with a cover , containing a socket , which could , at pleasure , be connected with the steam pipeofa boiler .
Two other sockets were also conveniently placed , provided with cork stoppers , through which the electrodes of the battery could pass , when the proper connexions were made .
By using this apparatus the author determined that the increase of effect consequent on an au^mentation of temperature is but in a slight degree dependent on an increase of conducting power in the electrolyte , but arises principally from its increased energy of affinity , producing a greater electromotive force .
In heating the battery by the steamer , it frequently happened that , when the thermometer had nearly reached the boiling point , and the action of the battery was at its maximum , a sudden cessation of its action would take place ; and this suspension of power would continue for hours , provided the high temperature were maintained .
On turning off the steam , and quickly cooling the apparatus , the action would return as suddenly as it had ceased , though , generally , not to the full amount .
On closely examining the voltameter , on these occasions , it was found that the current was not wholly stopped ; but that there existed a small residual current .
This residual current was observed to be often directed in a course opposite to that which had before prevailed ; and it was , in that case , the excess of a counter current , arising from a force which was acting in the contrary direction .
The author found that variable currents might be produced , under ordinary circumstances , from the separate single cells of the battery when the whole series is connected by short wires .
He proved by a series of experiments that the deoxidation of the oxide of copper by the hydrogen is not the exciting cause of the secondary currents 5 but that when the course of the main current of the battery is obstructed by causing it topass through the long wire of a galvanometer , or through the electrolyteofavoltameter , the course of the secondary current from each separate cell is always normal , or in the same direction : when , on the other hand , the battery-current is allowed to flow with the least possible resistance , as by completing the main circuit by a short wire , the secondary current of the separate cells is in the opposite direction .
Hence the resistance may be so adjusted as that the secondary current shall altogether disappear , or alternate between the two directions .
The remainder of the paper is occupied with the detail of experiments made with a view to ascertain the effects of different degrees of resistance to the voltaic currents under a great variety of circumstances .

