80 List of Candidates recommended for Election .
[ May 2 , Rambaut ( A. A. ) On the Effect of Atmospheric Dispersion on the Position of a Star .
8vo .
London [ 1895 ] , The Author .
Reyes y Prosper ( V. ) Nota acerca de la Geometria Proyectiva sobre la Superficie Esferica .
8vo .
Zaragosa 1891 ; Sir la Geometric Non-Euclidienne .
8vo .
Leipzig [ 1886 ] ; Sir les Proprietes Graphiques des Figures Entriques .
8vo .
[ Leipzig 1888 .
] The Author .
Siemens ( W. y. ) Scientific and Technical Papers .
Vol. II .
8vo .
London 1895 .
Mr. Alex .
Siemens .
Thomsen ( J. ) Relation remarquable entre les Poids atomiques des Elements Chimiques : Poids atomiques rationnels .
8vo .
[ Copen-hag ue 1894 .
] The Author .
Warington ( R. ) , F.R.S. The Chemistry of the Farm .
Ninth edition .
8vo .
London [ 1895 ] .
The Author .
Win ( J. M. ) An Exposition of the Fallacies of the Materialistic Theory of Physiological Psychology .
8vo .
London 1894 .
The Author .
May 2 , L895 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , followed by Sir JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair as follows:\#151 ; Barry , J. Wolf , M.Inst .
C.E. , C.B. Bourne , Professor Alfred Gibbs , D.Sc .
Bryan , George Hartley , M.A. , Eliot , John , M.A. Green , Professor Jose ph Rey nolds , D.Sc .
Griffiths , Ernest Howard , M.A. Heycock , Charles Thomas , M.A-Hickson , Professor Sydney John , D.Sc .
Holden , Henry C. L. , Major , R.A. McClean , Frank , M.A. , LL. D. MacEwen , Professor William , M.D. Martin , Sidney , M.D. Minchin , Professor George M. , M.A. Power , William Henry .
Purdie , Professor Thomas , B.Sc. The following Papers were- read :\#151 ; 1895 .
] Helium , a Gaseous Constituent of certain Minerals .
I. " Helium , a Gaseous Constituent of certain Minerals .
Part I. " By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in University College , London .
Received April 27 .
S 1 .
Introductory .
In seeking for a clue which would guide to the formation of compounds of argon , Mr. Miers , of the British Museum , kindly informed me that- a gas , supposed to he nitrogen , was obtainable from certain minerals containing the metal uranium , and notably from cleveite , a Norwegian mineral discovered by Nordenskjold .
The gas evolved from a number of such minerals had been examined by Dr. W. F. Hillebrand , of the United States Geological Survey , and was pronounced by him to be nitrogen .
The gas , which is evolved from some uraninites by the action of weak sulphuric acid , or by fusion with sodium carbonate , gave , in the hands of Dr. Hillebrand and Dr. Hallock , * the usual fluted nitrogen spectrum , and on sparking with hydrogen in presence of acid , or with oxygen in presence of alkali , contraction ensued .
From the first of these experiments they were able to prepare a weighable quantity of ammonium platinichloride .
In a private letter from Dr. Hillebrand , from which he allows me to quote , he states:\#151 ; r " The circumstances and conditions under which my work in this line was done were unfavourable ; the chemical investigations had consumed a vast amount of time , and I felt strong scruples about taking more from regular routine work .
I was a novice at spectroscopic work of this kind , and was thereby led to attach too little importance to certain observations which in the light of your discoveries deserved the utmost consideration .
Among other things , it puzzled me that the formation of ammonia should have proceeded so slowly , and that only a comparatively small amount of the gas should have been converted at the expiration of even several days ' passage .
of the current .
But , having had no previous experience , I was unable to judge whether this was especially abnormal or not ; it might have been due to insufficient current , or to some other cause .
A similar observation applies to the sparking with oxygen , which was only carried far enough to prove a contraction , and to obtain the tests for nitric acid .
" It doubtless has appeared incomprehensible to you , in view of the bright argon and other lines noticed by you in the gas from cleveife , # \#171 ; Bull .
On the Occurrence of Nitrogen in Uraninite , \amp ; c. , " by W. F. Hillebrand , No. 78 , U. S. Geological Surrey , 1889\#151 ; 90 .
H 2 82 Prof. W. Ramsay .
Helium , a Gaseous [ May 2 , that they should have escaped my observation .
They did not .
Both Dr. Hallock and I observed numerous bright lines on one or two occasions , some of which , apparently , could he accounted for by known elements\#151 ; as mercury , or sulphur from sulphuric acid ; but there were others which I could not identify with any mapped lines .
The well-known variability in the spectra of some substances under varying conditions of current and degree of evacuation of the tube , led me to ascribe similar causes for these anomalous appearances , and to reject the suggestion made by one of us in a doubtfully serious spirit , that a new element might be in question .
" It appeared to me unlikely that any substance should give free nitrogen on treatment with an acid ; and on examining a sample of gas evolved from cleveite , which I procured from Mr. Gregory , the conclusiou was confirmed .
The mineral is imbedded in felspathic rock , and forms black nodules and veins in the light reddish felspar .
A considerable quantity of the pure mineral could be picked out ; but it was found more advantageous to powder the whole rock and to boil it with dilute sulphuric acid ( 1 to 8 ) .
Under this treatment the mineral rapidly disintegrates , and an abundant evolution of gas takes place , even in the cold .
The gas is most conveniently collected by the device shown in the accompanying woodcut .
The mineral is placed in the flask A , which is exhausted of air by means of a Topler pump ; to expel the last traces of air , some water is admitted so as to moisten it .
Acid which has been boiled is run in hot through the funnel B , and the connexion with the gas-holder , C , is opened .
After half an hour 's boiling with the mineral all gas had been evolved .
The stop-cock communicating with the gas-holder was closed , the remaining gas taken out by means of the air-pump , and restored to the gas-holder through the arrangement depicted at D. The gas-holder is , of course , filled with water , thoroughly boiled in vacuo , so as to avoid contaminating the gas with nitrogen , oxygen , or argon .
The method of extracting the gas on a small scale is practically identical , the difference consisting solely in the size of the vessels employed.* S 2 .
Preliminary Experiments .
These experiments are described in the Preliminary Note communicated to the Society On March 26 , 1895 .
I shall only add that it appears pretty certain , in the light of subsequent experiments , that * For preliminary experiments on the extraction of gas , my thanks are due to Mr. Donald Matthews .
Mr. Morris Travers , my assistant , has kindly carried out all subsequent experiments on the extraction of gases .
1895 .
] Constituent of certain Minerals .
this sample of ga3 was largely contaminated with atmospheric air .
On sparking with oxygen in presence of soda , the nitrogen was , ot conrse , removed ; but it will be seen subsequently that the complete argon spectrum iB not visible in the new gas .
S S 3 .
Sources of Helium .
1 owe to the kindness of Dr. Hillebrand some grams of the uraninite which served for his experiments .
It is a hard , black mineral , containing , according to his account ( loc. cit.f the oxides of uranium , lead , thorium , yttrium , and allied metals in smaller amount .
It is attacked by acid with great difficulty , and gas is very slowly evolved .
A quantitative experiment was made by boiling 2'808 grams for 5^ hours , when 24 c.c. of gas were evolved .
After further boiling for ten hours , an additional 13'5 c.c. were obtained , in all 37'5 c.c. The first portion of this gas was mixed with oxygen and sparked for a short time .
The volume of the mixture was 34'3 c.c. , and after sparking it had diminished to 33'9 c.c. This appears to show that very little nitrogen is present if care be taken in collecting the gas .
I must reserve to the second part of this paper a further account of this specimen .
The cleveite which I bought from Mr. Gregory is much more easily decomposed , for in the course of half an hour the mineral is completely disintegrated , and all gas is evolved .
Mr. Travers found that 3'662 grams of the pure black mineral , free from felspar , yield 26 c.c. of gas .
This gas when mixed with oxygen and sparked did not contract to any great extent .
The actual measurements are :\#151 ; Prof. W. Ramsay .
Helium , a Gaseous [ May 2 , Taken ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 24*0 c.c. After addition of oxygen ... . .
34*0 , , After sparking ... ... ... ... ... 32*5 , , It appears therefore that this gas contains some , but not much nitrogen , and practically no free hydrogen .
It must be concluded that the hydrogen obtained in such large quantity from the crude felspathic mineral ( see below ) must have been derived from some free metal which it contained .
An attempt was also made to extract gas from Cornish pitchblende , a large sample of which I owe to the kindness of Mr. Kitto .
It is decomposed by acid very slowly , and it also evolves gas when heated in vacuo , but in exceedingly small quantity .
From 50 grams only a few cubic centimetres are evolved .
Similar results were obtained with a sample of pitchblende of unknown origin which I happened to possess .
The amount of gas obtained was quite insignificant .
S 4 .
Density of various Samples of Gas .
It has been stated in the preliminary note already referred to , that the spectrum of the gas extracted from cleveite is characterised by a brilliant yellow line , which , according to Mr. Crookes ' measurement , has the waVe-length 587*49 millionths of a millimetre , and is identical with the line D3 , to which Mr. Lockyer many years ago gave the name " helium , " from its occurrence in the spectrum of the sun 's chromosphere .
As the line D3 is observed high in the chromosphere , it has been inferred that the density of the gas should be very low .
Special interest therefore attached to the determination of this important property .
The gas used for the first experiment was the crude gas from the felspathic rock containing cleveite .
About 300 c.c. confined over strong caustic potash solution , which has been well boiled to expel all air , 'were used .
The globe , which was the same one that served for weighing argon , had a capacity of 162*843 c.c. The data are as follow :\#151 ; Volume of gas ... ... .v , ... ... ..** , *'. .
Pressure ( corrected ) ... ... ... ... ... Temperature ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Weight ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Weight of 1 litre at 0 ' and 760 mm. Density ( O = 16 ) ... ... ... ... ... ... .
162*843 c.c. 756*5 mm. 17*0 ' 0*0212 gram .
0*1389 " 1*555 This gas , as will be afterwards explained , contained free hydrogen .
In order to purify it from this constituent , it was passed from one gas-holder to another several times over red-hot copper oxide .
The 1895 .
] Constituent of certain Minerals .
total quantity of gas employed in this way was 920 c.c. , and the volume of the residue , unaltered further by copper oxide , was 183 c.c. This large-scale experiment shows the gas to contain about 80 per cent , of hydrogen .
The density of the partially purified gas was then determined Volume of gas ... ... ... ... ... . . .
Pressure ( corrected ) ... ... ... ... Temperature ... ... ... ... ... . .
Weight ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Weight of 1 litre at 0 ' and 760 mm. Density ( O = 16 ) ... ... ... ... ... .
162 843 c.c. 757*6 mm. 211 ' .
0*0652 gram .
0*4337 " 4*84 A vacuum-tube filled with this sample of gas showed strong flutings of nitrogen , and it was therefore further purified by repeated passage over red-hot magnesium , copper , copper oxide , soda-lime , and phosphorus pentoxide .
This sample gave the result:\#151 ; Volume of gas ... ... ... ... . .
' ... . .
162*843 c.c. Pressure ... ... ... ... .\#187 ; ... ... ... . .
704*7 mm.* Temperature ... ... ... ... ... ... . . . .
17*62 ' Weight ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0*0510 gram .
Weight of 1 litre at 0 ' and 760 mm. 0*3472 , Density ( O = 16 ) ... ... ... ... ... .
3*89 This gas , however , when examined spectroscopically , was seen still to contain nitrogen , but obviously the amount was diminished .
I must reserve to a later date a more accurate determination .
But judging by a preliminary experiment , in which a small quantity of this gas was sparked with oxygen until no further contraction occurred , and until it gave a spectrum absolutely free from all trace of nitrogen , no great reduction in the density is to be expected .
The number 3*9 may , therefore , be taken as a maximum number for the density of helium .
S S 5 .
Wave-length of Sound in the Gas Purified from Hydrogen , and Patio of Specific Heats .
The tube used and the method employed for this experiment were the same as those used for argon by Lord Rayleigh and myself , t The half-wave-length of air in the tube at 15 ' was 34*45 mm. ; that of the new gas ( sample of density 4*84 ) as a mean of twelve readings was 69*33 at 13*6 ' .
This gives a ratio of 1*863 , which is obviously too high .
But it must be remarked that the heaps of lycopodium , * As the stock of gas was too small to fill the globe and permit the requisite manipulation , a gauge was connected with the globe , and it was filled ' under reduced pressure .
f ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1895 .
Prof. W. Ramsay .
Helium , a Gaseous [ May 2 , although some were well marked , were not symmetrically arranged .
Every attempt was made by altering the length of the india-rubber tubing which connected the wave-length tube with the supply of gas , to induce appropriate echoes .
This plan works well with denser gases .
But I found it of no avail .
The half-wave-lengths were always between 67 and 71 mm. , and there appears no reason which would justify choosing the lower figure , which would give the ratio of specific heats 1:T74 .
One conclusion , however , may be drawn : that the gas has a high ratio of specific heats , and that it is probably monatomic , if this inference is legitimate for argon.* S 6 .
Is the Gas evolved from Gleveit a Hydride or an Element ?
It was soon discovered that the gas evolved from cleveite by treatment with dilute sulphuric acid contained a not inconsiderable amount , of hydrogen .
Row if the element helium is in combination in cleveite with the uranium , or the lead , or the yttrium , it is to be expected that it will be evolved as a hydride .
It is true that a hydride might be unstable , in which case free hydrogen should be mixed with the helium .
An attempt was made to decide which alternative is correct by absorbing the free hydrogen by palladium .
A measured quantity of the gas was treated with palladium sponge , hammered on an anvil , so as to avoid the introduction of air into the gas as much as possible , and it was passed up into the tube containing the gas .
The numbers obtained are these :\#151 ; Original volume of crude gas ... ... . .
12*20 c.c. Residue after absorption of hydrogen. .
2*40 " Hydrogen absorbed ... ... ... ... ... ... .
9*80 " The gas therefore , consisted of 19*7 per cent , of a substance unattacked by palladium , after standing for a night in contact with it , and 80*3 per cent , of hydrogen .
The residue was transferred to a sparking-tube , and sparked with oxygen over caustic potash .
The volume then decreased to 2*20 c.c. , and the residue is 18*0 per cent , of the total .
The contraction is too small to allow of the hypothesis that a hydride of helium has been decomposed on sparking , although if the formula of the hydride were HHe , decomposition and removal of hydrogen might take place without change of volume , S S 7 .
The Spectrum of the Gas from Gleveite .
A careful comparison was made between the spectra of various samples of gas from cleveite and the spectrum of argon .
As my spectroscope does not admit of accurate measurements being taken , I * 25th June , 1895 .
This conclusion has been amply confirmed .
1895 .
] Constituent of certain Minerals .
had to content myself with throwing the two spectra into the same field of vision .
By using two coils and adjusting current until the luminosity of the common lines in the two tubes becomes equal , very accurate conclusions can be drawn regarding the spectra .
A description has already been given of the first sample of gas examined ( see Preliminary Note ) .
In all probability a considerable amount of air had leaked in during its extraction , for it showed practically the whole of the argon spectrum in addition to lines to be ascribed to helium .
The gas prepared on a large scale , which consisted chiefly of hydrogen , was first examined .
There is nothing in the spectrum which calls for special notice , unless it be that the helium yellow ( D3 ) and violet lines were visible , even in presence of 80 per cent , of hydrogen .
These and other helium lines were brought out more intensely after a large portion of the hydrogen had been removed by means of palladium .
The argon red pair were , however , invisible in the helium-tube .
On sparking this gas , all hydrogen and nitrogen were removed .
And after a vacuum-tube had been filled a careful comparison was made between the spectrum of this gas and that of argon .
Comparison of the Spectra of Helium and Argon .
Description .
Helion .
Argon .
Remarks .
Extreme red , faint triplet . .
Red ; first line of first pair. .
" second " , , \#187 ; first faint line of second pair 9 , second Absent Present Absent 99 Present Present 99 ) ) 99 V OWTT TO Stronger in helium .
Brilliant in helium ; one of j second pair of argon , but 1 very faint .
Almost invisible in argon .
" D3 , " the characteristic line of helium .
Orange-red , faint V cl V IcllllD Present Absent Present 99 Absent 99 99 Present Absent Yellow , very brilliant Green , four lines ... .
.t tt 99 99 Absent 99 Present 99 99 Blue-green pair Blue-green , faint .
Peacock-green , brilliant ... .
Blue-green , fairly strong ... Blue-green , faint A very strong line .
Blue-green , very faint Blue , faint 99 99 Bright blue 99 99 * Blue-violet , faint 99 Absent Present 99 Present Absent Violet , brilliant Violet , faint r , t Characteristic line .
Violet , faint pair ... .
99 99 Present Violet , faint pair .
_ .
T 99 Absent Present Absent Violet , faint 99 Violet , faint 99 \#151 ; \#151 ; 88 Helium , a Gaseous Constituent of certain .
[ May 2 , This table maybe taken as giving the most striking lines of helium .
Those which at once catch the eye are first the yellow line D3 , wh ich enormously surpasses the rest in brilliancy .
Next in intensity , but still brilliant , is the violet line ; next the peacock-green , and fin ally the red .
All other lines are comparatively faint .
That the argon spectrum is reproduced with variations in the helium-tube might lead to the conclusion that argon is present in the helium .
But that argon was derived from atmospheric sources or from the water is excluded by the method of extraction .
Even supposing that a few cubic centimetres of air had entered by leakage , the amount of argon contained therein , compared with the large volume of the helium , would make it practically impossible that the spectrum of argon should be visible .
But there is no reason to suspect such a leakage .
On the other hand , the helium spectrum reproduces one of the characteristic red lines of argon more intensely than it is seen in the argon-tube ; and the other is absent .
The faint orange-red line , * a faint blue-green , and three violet lines are also present in both .
Can it be that both these gases are mixtures P That there is no helium , or at least no gas giving the line D3 in atmospheric air is certain , for its brilliancy would lead at once to its detection in the spectrum of atmospheric argon if it were present .
S 8 .
General Remarks .
So far as these experiments go , they show that a gas can be extracted from cleveite , and probably from some allied minerals , lighter than any known gas except hydrogen .
Whether or not this gas is a mixture or a single substance remains undecided .
The fact of its spectrum possessing some of the lines of argon and not others may point to the conclusion that argon is a mixture , but until some methods of fractionation have been tried it is premature to speculate .
Only one remark may be permitted of a speculative nature : the general similarity of helium ( applying this name to the gas from cleveite ) to argon , in not being affected either by red-hot magnesium or by sparking with oxygen in presence of potash , makes the inference probable that they belong to the same natural group .
If the atomic weight of argon be 20 ( a supposition which may be supported by some lines of argument ) , then , on subtracting 16 , which is the average difference between the atomic weights of members of the first line , beginning with lithium and continued to fluorine , and the second line , beginning with sodium and ending with chlorine , the number 4 is obtained ; and this closely approximates to the found density of helium , if that number is not too high .
On the other hand , * Subsequent experiments hare shown that this line is strong in helium near the negative electrode .
1895.1 Alternate Current Dynamo-Electric .
89 if the atomic weight of argon he 40 , on subtracting 32 , or twice the average difference , the number 8 is obtained , which closely approximates to 3 9 X 2 .
Which of these views is correct time must decide .
II .
" Alternate Current Dynamo-Electric Machines .
" By J. Hopkinson , F.R.S. , and E. Wilson.* Received April 4 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The paper deals experimentally with the currents induced in the coils and in the cores of the magnets of alternate current machines by the varying currents in and the varying positions of the armature .
It is shown that such currents exist , and that they have the effect of diminishing to a certain extent the electromotive force of the machine when working on resistances as a generator without a corresponding effect upon the phase of the armature current .
It is also shown that preventing variations in the coils of the electromagnet does not , in the machine experimented upon , greatly affect the result , and that the effect of introducing copper plates between the magnets and the armature has not a very great effect upon the electromotive force of the armature , the conclusion being that the conductivity of the iron cores is sufficient to produce the main part of the effect .
A method of determining the efficiency of alternate current machines is illustrated , and the results of the experiments for this determination are utilised to show that in certain cases of relation of phase of current to phase of electromotive force , the effect of the local currents in the iron cores is to increase , instead of to diminish , the electromotive force of the machine .
III .
" Note on the Relations of Sensory Impressions and Sensory Centres to Voluntary Movements .
" By H. Charlton Bastian , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Clinical Medicine in University College , London .
Received April 5 , 1895 .
In a recent communication to the Royal Society by Drs. Mott and Sherrington , entitled " Experiments upon the Influence of Sensory Nerves upon Movement and Nutrition of the Limbs , " results of a most important and hitherto unsuspected character were brought forward .
In this communication they have shown that " section of the whole series of sensory roots belonging to a limb , " either upper * The large majority of the experiments herein described were made in the summer of 1893 , and a considerable part of the paper was then written .
We have to thank Mr. F. Lydall , one of the student demonstrators at King 's College at that time , for much assistance .

