2 .
" Researches in the Theory of Machines .
" By the Rev. H. Moseley , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astro ?
nomy in King 's College , London .
Of the various names , such as " useful effect , " " dynamical effect , " " efficiency , " " work done , " " labouring force , " " work , " which have been given to that operation of force in machinery which consists in the union of a continued pressure with a continued motion , the author gives the preference to the term ivork , as being that which conveys , under its most intelligible form , this idea of the operation of force , and as being the literal translation of the word " travail , " which among French writers on mechanics has taken the place of every other .
The single unit , in terms of which this operation of force is with us measured , viz. the work of overcoming a pressure of one pound through one foot , he considers to be distinguished sufficiently , and expressed concisely enough , by the term unit of work , rejecting as unnecessary , and as less likely to pass into general use , the terms " dynamical unit , " and " dynam , " which it has been proposed to apply to it .
Having thus defined the terms work and unit of work , and paid a tribute of respect to the valuable labours of M. Poncelet in the theory of machines , and expressed admiration of the skill wTith which he has applied to it the well-known principle of vis viva under a new and more general form , the author proceeds to remark , that the inter ?
pretation which M. Poncelet has given to that function of the velo ?
city of a moving body which is taken as the measure of its vis viva , associates with it the definitive idea of a force opposed to all change in the state of the bodies ' rest or motion , and known as its " vis inertite , " " vis insita " &amp;c. The author conceives that the introduction of the definitive idea of such a force into questions of elementary and practical mechanics is liable to many and grave objections ; and he proposes a new interpretation of it , viz. " that one half of this function represents the number of units of work accumulated in the moving body , and which it is capable of reproducing upon any resistance opposed to its progress .
" This interpretation he establishes by me ?
chanical considerations of an elementary kind .
Taking , then , this new interpretation of the function representing one half the vis viva , and dividing the parts of a machine into those which receive the operation of the moving power ( the moving points ) and those which apply it ( the working points ) , he presents the principle of vis viva in its application to machines under the following form : ?
" The number of units of work done by the moving power upon the moving points of the machine is equal to the number yielded at the working points , jilus the number expended upon the prejudicial resistances , plus the number accumulated in the various parts of the machine which are in motion .
" So that the whole number of units of work done by the moving power , or upon the moving points , is expended , partly in that work done at the working points , whence results immediately the useful product of the machine , and partly upon the prejudicial resistances of friction , &amp;c. opposed to the motion of the machine in its transmission from the moving to the working points ; and all the rest is accumulated or treasured up in the moving parts of the ma ?
chine , and is reproducible whenever the work of the moving power from exceeding shall fall short of that which must be expended upon the useful and the prejudicial resistances to carry on the machine .
He then proceeds to observe , that in every machine there thus exists a direct relation between these four elements , ?
the work done upon the moving points , that expended at the working points , that expended on the prejudicial resistances , and that accumulated in the moving elements .
This relation , which is always the same for the same machine , and different for different machines , he proposes to call , in respect to each particular machine , its modulus ; and he states the principal object of this paper ( and of another which he proposes subsequently to submit to the Society ) to be , first , the general determination of the modulus of a simple machine ; secondly , that of a compound machine , from a knowledge of the moduli of its component elements ; and , thirdly , the application of these general methods of determination to some of the principal elements of machinery , and to the machines which are in common use .
The author then states , that the velocities of the different parts , or elements of every machine are connected with one another by certain invariable relations , capable of being expressed by mathematical for ?
mulae ; so that , though these relations are different for different ma ?
chines , they are the same for the same machine .
Thus it becomes possible to express the velocity of any element of a machine , at any period of its motion , in terms of the corresponding velocity of any other element .
Whence it results that the whole vis viva of the machine may at any time be expressed in terms of the corresponding velocity of its moving point ( that is , the point where the moving power is applied to it ) , and made to present itself under the form V2 2w V2 , where V represents the velocity of the moving point of the machine , w the weight of any element , and Xa factor determining the velocity of that element in terms of the velocity V of the moving point .
Substituting this expression for the vis viva or accumulated work in the modulus and solving in respect to V , an expression is obtained , whence it becomes apparent that the variation of the velo ?
city V of the moving point , produced by any given irregularity in the work done upon the moving or working points , will be less , as the factor 2 w\is greater .
This factor , determinable in every ma ?
chine , and upon which the uniformity of its action under given variations of the power which impels it depends , he proposes to introduce into the general discussion of the theory of machines as the coefficient of equable motion .
He then proceeds to investigate general methods for the determina ?
tion of the modulus of a machine , deducing them from those general relations which are established by the principles of statics , between the pressures applied to the machine , in its state bordering upon motion .
That he may escape that complication of formulae which results from the introduction of friction , by the ordinary methods , into the consideration of questions of equilibrium , the author calls to his aid a principle , first published by himself in a paper on the * Theory of the Equilibrium of Bodies in contact , ' printed in the fifth volume of the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions , viz. " that when the surfaces of two bodies are in contact under any given pressures , and are in the state bordering upon motion , on those surfaces , then the common direction of the mutual resistances of the surfaces is inclined to their normal at the point of contact at a certain angle , given in terms of the friction of the surfaces by the condition that its tangent is equal to the coefficient of friction .
" This angle the author has called " the limiting angle of resistance : " it has since been used by other writers under the designation of the " slipping angle .
" He next proceeds to determine the modulus of a simple machine , moveable about a cylindrical axis of given dimensions , and acted upon by any number of pressures in the same plane .
He applies the principle last stated to determine the general conditions of the equilibrium of these pressures , in the state bordering upon motion by the preponderance of one of them ; and , solving the resulting equation in respect to that one pressure by the aid of Lagrange 's theorem , ^ he deduces immediately the modulus from this solution by principles before laid down .
The modulus , thus determined , he then verifies by an independent discussion of that particular case in which three pressures only are applied to the machine , one of which has its direction through the centre of the axis .
This solution he next considers more particularly with reference to a machine moveable about a fixed axis under one moving and one working pressure ( their directions being any whatever ) and its own weight ; which last is supposed to act through the centre of the axis .
He shows that it is a general condition of the greatest eco ?
nomy in the working of such a machine , that the moving and work ?
ing pressures should have their directions , one of them upwards , and the other downwards , and that both should therefore be applied on the same side of the axis of the machine .
He moreover shows that if the direction of one of these pressures be given , there is then a certain perpendicular distance of the other from the centre of the axis , and a certain inclination of its direction to the vertical , at which perpendicular distance , and which inclination , this pressure being applied , the machine will yield a greater amount of work , by the expenditure of a given amount of power , than it will yield under any other circumstances of its application : so that this particular distance and inclination are those whence results the most economical working of the machine .
Professor Moseley then commences his application of these general principles to elementary machines with the pulley .
He establishes the modulus of the pulley under any given inclination of the parts of the cord passing over it , taking into account the friction of the axis , the weight of the pulley and the rigidity of the cord , and adopting , with respect to the last element , the experiments of Coulomb .
This general form of the modulus of the pulley he applies , first , to the case in which both strings are parallel , and inclined to the vertical at any angle ; secondly , to the case in which they are equally inclined on either side of the vertical ; thirdly , to the case in which one is horizontal and the other vertical ; and , fourthly , to that in which both are horizontal .
He concludes his paper by a deduction from this last case of the modulus of a system of any number of pulleys or sheaves , sustaining among them the weight of any given length of rope horizontally .

