]\gt ; Mr. G. .
Fitzgerald .
Theory [ Jan. 9 , different spectra , inasmuch as their absorption-bands vary in position and in intensity .
( 3 .
) The photographic absorption spectra can be employed as a means of identifying organic substances , and as a most delicate test of their purity .
The curves obtained by -ordinating the extent of dilution with the position of the rays of the spectrum absorbed by the solution form a strongly marked and often a characteristig feature of many organic compounds .
There is a curious feature in connexion with the position of absorption bands ; at the less ible end they either begin at Cd or line 17 Cd , and those which begin at 12 end a little beyond 17 .
No naphthalene or anthracene derivatives have yet been examined , and very few substances of unknown oonstitution\mdash ; hence most in .
teresting results may be anticipated from a continuation of this resenrch , and this contribution must be accepted rather as a bare mencement of the subject than its conclusion .
II .
" " On the Electromagnetic Theory of the Reflection and Refraction of Light By ORGE l FITZCIERALD , M.A. , Fellow of Trimity College , Dublin , Communicated by G. J. , F.R.S. , Secretary of the Queen 's University , Ireland .
Received October 26 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The media , at whose surfaces reflection and refraction are supposed to place , are assumed to be non-conductors , and isotropic as regards magnetic inductive capacity .
Some reasons are advanced why the results should apply at least approximately to conductors .
In the first part of the paper the media are not assumed to be isotropic as regards electrostatic inductive capacity , so that the results are fenerally applicable to reflection and refraction at the surfaces of tals .
I use the expressions given by Professor J. Clerk Maxwell in his " " Electricity and netism , \ldquo ; vol. , Part , chap .
11 , for the electrostatic and electrokinetic of such media .
By assuming quantities , , and , such that , representing time , ' and , are the components of ]netic force at any point , I have thrown these expressions for the electrostatic and electrokinetic energy of a mcdium into the same , as assumed to represent the potential and kinetic cncrgy of the , in " " An Essay towards a Dynamical cory of Crystalline Rcflection and Refraction , ' ' pubof the Reflection and action of 237 in vol. xxi of " " of the Irish cadem lowing a slightly different line from his , I obtftin , accompanying Cartesian annlysis , the same results to wave pagation , reflection , and refraction , thosc obtained by he developed into utiful theorem of course , the laws of wave ' agree )tained by Professor lfaxwell from tions by a somo ) fferent method .
For isotropic media , tho ordinary laws of reflection refraction are obtained , and cxprcbsions for the nplitudes of the reflected and refracted rnys .
In the second part of the paper I consider the case of ction { le surface of a magnetised medium , the cxprcs ions Proissor J. Clerk has assumed in " " Electricity and \ldquo ; , Part I S 824 , to express the kinetic of mediuln .
rom this , follo the same as beforc , I have deduced folwing equations to represenf the snperficial conditions : , , have the same meaning as before , and the ) axes are iu the ltersections of the plane of incidence and the surfncc , in the ace , and normal to it ; componcnts of of he vortex that Professor Maxwell assumes , and which , with these axes , reduces to ; and are clccrostatic inductive capacities of two in contact , the uantities to one of these hich is to bc nagnetic are distinguished by the suffix 1 ; is a constant , power of the medium to rotate plane of polarisation of lepends .
As these are by a simultaneous alteration of the ns of and , I show that the adopted in my former ) Iagnetic Reflection in the " " of the Royal Socicf " " , No. 176 , is justified , and it is le , to th incident plane polarised ray as composed of two oppositcly polarised rays , each of which is reflected ' to its From these I further deduce that , when of medium is all in the direction of is no cffect tion produced by it .
I COlJsidcr ncxt of tisation being all normal to the , and all the planc of incidence , and obtain resuIt : Whcll dent ray is plane polarised , and the of ation is Prof E. Frankland on Dry Fog .
[ Jan. 9 perpcndicular to the plane of incidcnce , the effect of magnetisation to introduce a component into the reflccted ray perpendicular to tb ' original plane of polorisation , whose amplitude , , is given in several by the following equations , in which is the angle : incidencc , and of reflcction , and .
a small constant depending prin cipally on , and the intensity of the incident ray:\mdash ; 1 .
When tion is normal to the reflccting surface .
If the incident be polarisod in the plane of incidence\mdash ; .- .
\mdash ; If it be polarised in a plane perpendicular to the plane of incidence\mdash ; 2 .
When the tion is parallcl to the intersection of the sur .
face and the plane of cidence , and the ) lane of polarisation of cident ray is either in or perpendicular to the plane of incidence\mdash ; sin2 at the and normal incidences , and , in the of iron , attains a maximum at about he angle of incidence I do not obtain any of phase by reflection in any case ; and this is to be expccted , as this ange of phase probably depends on ture of the change from one medium to another , which , follow , I have uniformly assumed to be abrnpt .
Apart from this question of clJangc of phase , my results conform completely to lfr .
Kcrr 's beautiful experiments on the reflection of from the pole of a , as published in the Philosophical Magies for , l8 , and arch , 1878 .
III .
" " On Dry Fog , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Profcssor of in the School Iines .
October 2 1878 .
It hns often been noticed , in and , that is not lwaJ srnted with : thus on 17th of October laht , a thick in London , of humidity was only per cent. of ; and Mr. Glaishcr , in his ftble b ] loon { sccllts , in cloud or fog hygrometer bometimcs showed the air to posscss considcrable dryness .
In the ascent from Wolver-

