XXI .
A Letter from John Burton M. D. to C. Mortimer M. D. &amp; Secr. R. S. concerning the Extirpation of an Excrescence from the Womb .
SIR , IHAVE at last got a Drawing of an Excrescence * growing from the Inside of the Os Tincae on the right Side ; which I herewith send you , ( see TAB. I. Fig. 6 .
) along with as full and perfect an Account of the Case as I can .
Read July 5 .
1750 .
The Wife of one Chapman , a Whitesmith , at Selby , ten Miles off , upwards of seven Years ago lay in of her last Child , and had a tolerable easy Labour : Soon after which , she had what she called the Fluor albus , that continued ever since , and increased upon her ; insomuch that she says , she has sometimes * It is exactly the Dimensions of the Original , which weighed 5 Ounces and a half .
That Part below the pricked Line appeared out of the Vagina ; that above reached from the Labia to the Os sometimes had such a Discharge , as to wet the Place she sat upon thro ' all her Petticoats , &amp;c. For some Months before we were concerned for her , she began to complain of a Pain and Weight in the Uterus ; which increased as the Substance grew in Bulk ; and at last the Excrescence was so large as to appear outwards , and then it grew very fast .
The Patient consulted her Midwife , who thought the Womb had come out ; but was so prudent as not to do any thing ; and desired they would call in better Advice .
Accordingly they sent for Mr. Fell , an eminent Man-midwife and Surgeon in this City ; who , not having met with a Case like that , desired me also to go and see her ; which was in December last ( 1749 ) .
The Substance not only filled , but extended , the Entrance into the Vagina .
I introduced a Finger into the Passage , and soon found the Excrescence to be less in Bulk there than what appeared without the Body ; and to be in Shape as you see in the Drawing .
I follow 'd the Substance till I reached the Os Uteri , which I found chiefly filled up , with the Neck or smallest Part of this Substance , leaving only a small Part of the Os Tincae to be perceived on the left Side , obliquely towards the Back .
I tried to penetrate the Os Tincae with the End of my Finger , but could not ; however , I so far opened it , as to let out a sort of bloody Ichor , which was a little offensive in Smell .
I asked her , if , when her Discharges were so large as to wet her Seat , they differed in Smell from those which came in less Quantities ; and if they smelled something like what then came from her when I searched her , which she answered in the Affirmative : From whence I concluded she had an Ulcer cer just within the Os Uteri , from the Edge of which this Fungus or Excrescence grew .
The Patient complained of Pain in the Uterus and Back , was very faint , and frequently was provoked to vomit , with a feeble Pulse , and sometimes Sweat .
Upon Consultation , we thought proper to the a Ligature as high up within the Vagina as the Surgeon could reach : Which being done , and some internal Medicines being ordered , we returned home ; and in two or three Days we went again , but found no great Alteration as to the uterine Complaint ; except that the Part below the Ligature was somewhat more livid , and the fetid Smell was much greater , and very like that of a confirmed running Cancer : And as the Matter was somewhat confined in the Passage , I ordered them to wash the Vagina by an Injection made of the common emollient Decoction , with Mel Rosarum and a little Tinct .
Myrrhae .
This was frequently done ; by which the Smell was less offensive ; and two Days after the Excrescence dropped off at the Ligature .
The Patient has since , in part , recovered her Strength ; tho ' she is not in a good State of Health , and her Fluor albus , as she calls it , is still troublesome to her .
This was the last Account I have had of her .
The Excrescence was very solid , of a dark liver Colour , and , whilst adhering to the Uterus , was quite insenble .
When cut in two , it resembled the solid Substance that is taken out of Cancers .
I am , SIR , York , March 28 , Your very humble Servant , 1750 .
John Burton .
July 5 , 1750 .
the SOCIETY adjourned to Oct. 25

