]\gt ; On the Influence of upon the Form of Certain Spicules .
By THUIt D , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Zoolog and J. W. M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Mathematics , in the University of London ( King 's College ) .
( Received May 11 , 1917 .
) It has been pointed out recently*by one of us that development of the remarkable chessman-spicule or discorhabd in the genus a somewhat complicated process ding u ) several factors .
proto- rhabd or axial thread appears first as a slender rod capable of independent growth .
With these protorhabds two kinds of silica-secreting cells appear to be associated , viz. , formative cells which are responsible for the actual deposition of the silica upon the prot , orhabd , and accessory silicoblasts which are supposed to collect )plies of silica and bring them to the formative cells to be used in the process of spicule-formation .
The spicule in this case consists of an elongated axis with whorls of llattened lobes arranged at more or less definite intervals along its length , and it was suggested that the * A. Dendy , Presidential Address to Quekett Microscopical Club , 'Journ .
Q.M.C. , Ser. II , vol. 13 , p. 23 ] ( 1917 ) .
574 Profs .
A. Dendy and J. W. Nicholson .
Influence of position of these whorls is determined by the fact that the spicule , at the time of their commencement , is in a state of vibration , due to the water currents flowing through the sponge , the whorls corresponding to the nodes or positions of comparative rest .
The special accumulation of silica on the nodes appears to be due , not directly to the vibrations of the spicule , but to the fact that the formative cells exhibit a kind of tropism which induces them to settle down and perform their work in the positions where they are least disturbed by the vibrations .
The whorls in this case are not sharply defined at the moment of their first appearance , so that it is impossible to obtain accurate measurements for inathematical analysis ; nevertheless , there are certain facts connected with their arrangement which , in our opinion , afford a conclusive demonstration of the view that they are deposited approximately upon the nodes of vibrating rod .
Two species were investigated , Latrunculia : apicalis and li .
bocagei .
In both species the icule , at a certain stage of its development , consists of a straight rod with four thickenings , representing a basal manubrium and three incipient whorls .
Ihere is a basal thickening at one end , an apical thickening at the other , a median at or near the centre , and a subsidiary thickening , usually between the median and , apical thickenings , but occasionally between the median and basal thickeninga If these thickenings correspond to nodes , we have to account for the fact that a subsidiary thickening is developed only on one side of the median thickeningThe solution of this difficulty is to be found in the arrangement of the formative cells ( observed in nnculia bocagei only , doubtless occurring in the other species also ) , for while there is a of formative cells round the median thickening and a similar ring round the subsidiary thickening , there is none around the part of the spicule where a second subsidiary thickening might be looked for , and hence no whorl is developed in this situation , in spite of its , a nodal point .
No formative cells have yet been observed in relation to the basal and apical thickenings .
Certain diflerences in the development of the discorhabd in the two species of dealt with are of the highest significance from the point of view of the vibratory theory .
In .
apicalis the young spicule is symmetrical , he basal and apical thickenings being represented by rounded knobs of approximately equal size , while the median thickening , consisting typically of a whorl of three knobs , appears just about half-way between them , developing either simultaneously or ( perhaps always ) a little later .
In L. bocagei , on the other hand , the apical thickening appears some time before the basal thickening , so that we have an asymmetrical rod weighted at one end , and the median thickening is actually ifted towards the weighted end Vibrations upon the Form of Spoon .
575 exactly as might be expected if it really indicates the position of a node .
Of course individual variations occur , due , doubtless , to various disturbing factors , but these do not invalidate the general conclusion that the thickenings represent nodal points .
As already stated , the whorls of the spicule ars not sufficiently well defined or regular on their first appearance to yield accurate measurements of their position .
There is , however , amongst the remarkable collection of obtained by the " " Sealark\ldquo ; Expedition in the Indian Ocean , a species belonging to a new genus related to , in which a discorhabd occurs which is much better suited for mathematical } tion .
As the species has not yet been described , we may refer to this spicule simply as the oxydiscorhabd , from the fact that it is an oxeote spicuJe with two disc-like whorls .
The shaft of the spicule ( fig. 10 ) is thickest in the middle , and tapers gradually to a sharp point at each end , being } ) mately symmetrical but slightly curved .
The young spicule may be slightly angulated in the centre and , as is frequently the case in oxeote spicules , may exhibit a slight central enlargement ( the primary central thickening ) , which , however , as will appear later on , has nothing whateyer to do with the formation of a whorl .
When fully developed , the surface of the shaft is slightly roughened with numerous small points .
The spicule evidently belongs to the common diactinal type , in which two of the rays of the primitive tetract have been )ressed , and , before the formation of the whorls ( fig. 4 ) , it is doubtful whether it could be ushed f the young oxeote megasclere of the same sponge .
The whorls , when fully developed , are thin discs of silica ( fig. 15 ) , not divided into lobes , but with an irregular margin ; the median one is concave on the side facing the other , which latter evidently corresI ) onds to the subsidial.y whorl of the atrunculia spicule .
Unfortunately the only specimen in which this oxydiscorhabd occurs is not sufficiently well preserved to enable us to say anything about the cells which are concerned in the development of the spicule , but it seems reasonable to assume the existence of formative cells having the relation to the whorls as in Only two whorls are developed , and these do not appear until the shaft has attained a considerable thickness , measuring about mm. in length by mm. in diameter in the middle .
Then the whorls appear , almost , if not quite , simultaneously , the median one at or very near the centre of the shaft , and the subsidiary oue at oue side of it , always nearer to the centre than to the end .
At first , each whorl is represented by a thin , sharply defined ring of silica , the position of which can be accurately determined by measurement .
Profs .
Dendy and Nicholson .
pearedJnfluence o -ince the spicule continues to grow after the whorls have appeared , it is obvious that the only measurements of any value for our purposes are those made upon spicules on which the whorls are only just commencing their development .
We may call this the critical stage .
After it has passed , the distance between the two whorls will not increase , but the distance between the subsidiary whorl and the end of the spicule increases considerably .
It will be observed that , as in the case of the Latrumulia spicule , only one subsidiary whorl is formed , and we may attribute the absence of a second one to the same cause , , the absence of the necessary formative cells .
Before proceeding to discuss the position of the whorls , it is desirable to say something about the way in which the measurements were made .
The spicules were first drawn with a camera lucida , under a Zeiss microscope , with an objective and a No. 4 eyepiece , iving a magnification of about diameters .
The outline was corrected without the camera , and measurements were made upon the finished drawing .
In making the measurements and calculations , the absolute dimensions of the drawing , and not those of the spicule itself , have been employed .
It will be observed that the case is a different one from that of the Latrunculia spicule , for the ends of the rod are not weighted , and the vibrations must be those of the free-free type .
It is safe to assume that any vibrations that occur must be transverse ones , for , whereas it is easy to see how transverse vibrations might be induced by sudden alterations of pressure upon a slender elastic rod lying in the almost liquid mesogloea in .
the immediate neighbourhood of the canals through which water is flowing , it is extremely improbable that vibrations of any other type would be set up .
The positions of the nodes in a transversely vibrating rod of uniform section are , of course , well known , but , apparently , no investigator has hitherto determined , either by experiment or calculation , the corresponding positions in the case of a rod having the form of a double cone or paraboloid , or some form intermediate between these two , such as is exhibited by the oxydiscorhabd .
It was therefore necessary in the first instance to arrive at a general formula , by means of which this problem could be solved , and then to calculate the theoretical positions of the nodes in each cule examined .
The degree of accuracy with which the positions found by actual measurement with those determined by based upon the form of the spicule , affords the best possible test of the truth of the vibratory theory .
The lateral vibrations of a bar of uniform cross-section and material are investigated very fully in Lord Rayleigh 's treatise , we may quote , for ' Theory of Sound , ' vol. 1 , p. 266 .
Vibrations upon the Form of C'ertain Sponge-Spicules .
reference , the results which are of interest from the present point of view .
These relate , of course , entirely to the positions of the nodes .
When the bar is set in vibration , the various tones are not excited equally strongly , and the nodes which may be expected to occur are only those associated with the two gravest vibrations\mdash ; or the more fundamental vibrations .
Any higher vibration is of necessity accompanied by graver notes , which cause the nodes of the higher vibration to be in motion , so that their significance as points of rest must be diminished or destroyed .
If the length of the bar be taken for convenience as unity , and if it be free at both ends , the most fundamental vibration gives nodes at distances from either end , while the second tone has a node in the middle and two others at distances from either end .
The tone is of much greater importance , and the usual vibration must consist mainly of a superposition of the first and second tones .
If , on the other hand , the bar is fixed at one end and free at the other , the fixed end must be a node .
The second tone gives a node at from the free end , and the third gives a node at from the free end , and another in the middle of the bar .
It is not necessary to consider , for the particular type of spicule dealt with in the present mication , the case of a bar fixed at both ends .
When attention is restricted to the most important vibrations , we see that the free-free bar gives nodes at from each end and one in the centre ( which is common to many tones ) , while the fixed-free a node al from the free end .
These distances are practically identical .
The fixed end in the latter case is also a node .
This result is not directly applicable , in the quantitative senRe , the spicule with which this connmunication is concerned , but , at the same valuable qualitative mation can be derived at once in general terms .
If a bar is thick in the middle and tapers to a point at each end , it may be regarded in two ways .
In the , if it be looked upon as a free-free bar symmetrical about its centre , the nodes , rily at from each end , must move inwards towards more inert centre , in accordance with a general principle of vibratory motion .
bar may , however , if the centre is very thick in comparison with the ends , and therefore almost entirely free from vibratory motion , be regarded as made up of two fixed-free bars placed together but vibrating independently .
There must then be a node at tho centre , and two others , one for each bar , at a greater distance than from the free end .
The eneral conclusion , from bolh points of , is that a node should be expected at the centre , and two others , one on either side , whose ance fro1n the corresponding free end cannot be so small as 578 Profs .
A. Dendy and J. W. Nicholson .
lnfluence of approximate ttuning fadni showed tffect oending aegins tvoted , urvature.knownAnother question ohich ainary statement approach the point of maximum curvature in the centre .
Thus the two nodes of the fundamental vibration of a free-free bar , originally at a distance of from its ends , move inwards towards the centre as the bar is bent .
A diagram given by Chladni , showing the rate of approach of these nodes , is reproduced by Barton .
* The spicule with which we are concerned is somewhat bent , and this result is therefore of importance .
The bending is , however , so slight that the shift of the nodes due to this agency may be arded as additive to that produced by inequalities in the cross-section , and it is not necessary to obtain a quantitative solution of the very difficult problem of a bent bar of non-uniform cross-section .
The lateral vibrations of bars of variable cross-section have not been investigated hitherto , in the stl'ict quantitative sense , as regards the positions of the nodes , in any case ; although Kirchhoff determined the periods of vibration of a bar which was in the form of a thin cone , and of another bar which has no definite relation to the present problem .
mathematical solution of the complete problem for several cases has , however , been obtained by one of us for the purposes of the present investigation .
Full details of these results are contained in another paper communicated to the Society .
They include the case\mdash ; important from its approximation to that of the spicule treated in detail here\mdash ; of a bar which consists effectively of two equal thin cones with their flat ends in contact , as in fig. 1 .
If be the length of such a bar , and a multiplier , dependent on FIG. 1 .
the period , it can be shown that the primary mode in which the bar vibrates symmetrically , so that the curvature of the axis at some particular instant is of the form given in fig. 2 , is determined by the equation and the nodes are at a stance x from either free end determined by J2 .
The 's represent Bessel functions , and the roots of these equations are already known from their occurrence in other physical 'Text Book on Sound , ' p. 296 .
'Berlin Monatsber 1879 , pp. 815-828 .
Vibrations upon th Form of Certain Sponge-Spicules .
579 problems .
* Taking the first root in each case as corresponding to the fundamental vibration of symmetrical type , we find and therefore , the distance of the node from the free end bears to the whole length of the rod the ratio , as ainst 0 for a uniform rod .
Each of the unsymmetrical vibrations has one node at the centre of the rod .
This is evident without analysis .
When such a structure vibrates , therefore , the nodes which should be prominent , .
to the more fundamental and stronger vibrations , are three in number\mdash ; one at the centre and one at of the length measured from each end .
The uniform rod and double cone are limiting cases .
When the rod is not bent , the nodes for any intermediate tion can be nately predicted , but must be between the limits and the rod is sharply conical the second value should be nearly reached .
The corresponding value for a nearly double-parabolic rod , as in fig. 3 , is .
Bending of the axis of any rod must always make these theoretical values higher by pulling the nodes in towards the centre .
, FIG. 3 .
Quoting a more general result of the mathematical investigation above , we may state that , if a bar is coull ) osed of two equal halves , each consisting a portion of the solid formed by rotating the curve about the axis of x\mdash ; in practice the of the spicule\mdash ; the of the symmetrical uode from the free end is the product of the length and a numerical factor with great accuracy .
Lord .
' Theol.y of Sound , ' vol. 1 , p. 330 .
580 Profs .
A. Dendy and J. W. Nicholson .
Influence of For any suitable spicule the value of may be determined by direct measurement of the varying transverse diameter in the magnified drawingFor this purpose , it is essential , as already stated , to obtain specimens which have just reached the critical stage ( when the whorls are unly commencing to .
develop ) .
In such cases very accurate measurements are possible .
Moreover , .
progressive changes in the position of the actual nodes , caused by the fact that the more developed spicule may not be exactly similar to its original shape when the whorls commenced to form , cease in these circumstances be a disturbing factor .
The fact that the whorls on the oxydiscorhabd appear first as very thin , sharply defined makes it possible also to determine their position with considerable accuracy .
An account is given below of the quantitative examination of ten specimens of the oxydiscorhabd , at or near its critical stage of development , from the standpoint of the vibratory theory .
It is necessary , in view of the preceding account of the biological history of the spicule , merely to show that the : positions of the two actually occurring whorls are in accordance with the theory of vibrations of non-uniform bars already outlined .
The absence of the third whorl has already been explained .
The magnification adopted for each of the specimens was , as already stated , about 1075 , and the measurements were all made upon the enlarged drawings , .
the actual dimensions of which will alone be quoted .
If the curve of any spicule is of the form and if are adths at distances from the end , or .
A series of values can be found for by such measurements and a mean value taken .
For example , for the first of the ten spicules ( fig. 5 ) , measurements are shown in the following Table:\mdash ; From the third and fourth pairs of observations of position and breadth quoted in the Table Vibrations the Form of Certain Sponge-Spicules .
581 or practically 2/ 5 .
Other* combinations of the observations give a result in close agreement , and we do not consider it necessary to give further detailed calculations of the value of , which can easily be verified by the reader by reference to the figures .
The interpolation formula for the nodal position , with , becomes This calculation is also typical , and will not be given for each individual case , except in its final result .
The ten specimens are shown in figs. 5-14 , which are reproduced to scaleThese should be compared with fig. 4 , which has just reached the critical stage , but in which no whorls have yet appeared .
FIG.4 .
The details of these cases are as follows : Fig. 5.\mdash ; Calculations for this spicule are iven a } .
Its length in the drawing is 74.0 mm. and its thickest part is exactly in the middle .
The whorls are very near the critical stage ( i.c. , their first appearance ) , and the median one is slightly displaced from the centre towards the other , VOL. LXXXIX.\mdash ; B. 582 Profs .
A. Dendy and J. W. Nicholson .
Jnfluence of does nuite coincide whickest ppicule.istanceof there whorl ( ubsidiary whorl)from t the observed ratio of distance to length is against the theoretical value .
The error in the ratio is less than 5 per cent. The theoretical distance of the whorl from the end is mm. , and the discrepancy is only 1 mm. The displacement is in the same direction as that of the median whorl , apparently a usual phenomenon when the latter is displaced , even though only slightly .
f'ig .
6.\mdash ; This spioule is also very near the critical stage .
The lengths on the two sides of the primary central thickening ( which is well marked ) are and 41 mm. , the latter being on the side on which the subsidiary whorl is situated The median whorl is nearly 1 mm. from the primary central thickening , but almost at the geometrical centre , and the subsidiary whorl is mm. from the end .
The ratio of distance to length is as determined by observation .
The spicule is very nearly conical .
Typical breadths are mm. and 1 mm. , at and mm. respectively from the end .
The value of calculated from these is 4/ 5 , and the interpolation formula yields the ratio , differing from the observed value by less than 4 per cent. The theoretical distance of the subsidiary whorl from the end is therefore mm. , so that the discrepancy between theory and observalion is 1 mm. , and as the spicule is slightly curved , so that the theoretical value is really higher , the result may be even more accurate .
Fig. 7.\mdash ; In case the median whorl practically coincides with the primary central thickening .
The whorls are relatively larger , indicating a slightly more advanced stage of development .
The length of this specimen is again mm. , and the subsidiary whorl is at 275 mm. from the end , giving a ratio .
Typical breadths are mm. , at distances mm. from the end respectively , the resulting value of being , so that the spicule is almost precisely conical .
Calculation gives the theoretical ratio , again differing from the observed value by less than 4 per cent : , while the theoretical distance of the subsidiary whorl from the end is mm. , giving an error of only mm. in the actual distance .
This would probably be eliminated if correction were made for curvature .
Fig. 8.\mdash ; The median whorl and the organic centre of the spicule again coincide very closely , though one end of the spicule has apparently grown a little more than the other , the semi-lengths , measured from the thickest part , the Form of Sponge-Spicules .
being 44 and 42 mm. The subsidiary whorl is at from the end , iving a ratio .
The value of is 2/ 3 , giving a theoretical ratio , which is within 5 per cent. of the observed value .
The displacement of the qidiary whorl from the theoretical position is again only 1 mm. , and is probably to be accounted for by the curvature of the spicule .
Fig. 9.\mdash ; The spicule appears to be conical , and the median whorl is almost precisely central , coinciding with a marked primary central thickening .
The true distance of the subsidiary whorl from the end ] be , where 755 is the total length .
This becomes ainst the measured value .
The displacement is again 1 mm. towards the centre , as required either by lrvature or subsequent growth at the ends .
FIG. 10 .
FIG. FIG. .
FIG.13 .
FIG 14 Fig. 10.\mdash ; The on the sides of the primary central thickening are and mm. , indicating htly unequal growth .
The median whorl coincides with the primary central thickening .
The subsidiary whorl , at mm. from the end , gives a ratio .
It is not possible to distinguish the spicule from a conical form , so that the theoretical ratio in the absence of curvature would be , corresponding to a distance 584 Profs .
A. Dendy and J. W. Nicholson .
Influence meant oedian whorl fentre opicule , isplacement iearly 2mmwhich hready beferred thich wollowing oases there ivery definite d inwards ( in accordance with the curvature ?
) .
be referred to again later on .
The present specimen ( fig. 11 ) is distinctly curved , and apparently very near the critical stage , as indicated by the feeble development of the whorls .
A distinct primary central thickening is not recognisable , but the spicule appears thickest at its geometrical centre , from which the median.whorl is displaced as much as 4 mm. towards the subsidiary whorl , which is at mm. from the end .
The whole length is , and the ratio becomes .
Typical breadths are and at distances of and mm. respectively , giving on calculation .
This corresponds to a theoretical ratio , and a theoretical distance mm. from the end to the subsidiary whorl .
This whorl therefore has a displacement of mm. from the theoretical position in the same sense as that of the median whorl .
'common factor of displacement , more effective for the median whorl , is thereby suggested .
Fig. 12.\mdash ; This is a similar specimen to that shown in fig. 11 , but shows the primary central thickening clearly and at the geometrical centre .
The total length is 84 mm. , and the distance from end to subsidiary whorl is giving a ratio .
The whorls are relatively large , indicating a stage of development slightly beyond the critical stage .
There is again a displacement to the extent of mm. of the median whorl from the geometrical centre towards the subsidiary whorl .
The value .of is 4/ 5 , and the theoretical distance is against the observed value .
A displacement of 3 mm. thus occurs in the case of the subsidiary whorl in the same direction as the displacement of mm. in that of the median one .
The correspondence with fig. 11 is complete even quantitatively , and a common agency effective in causing these displacements must be sought .
Fig. 13.\mdash ; This spicule is apparently very straight .
Its total length is mm. , and the primary thickening is exactly central .
The median whorl is in this case displaced 2.5 mm. on the opposite side to that on which the subsidiary whorl is situated , and we may therefore expect the latter to be more displaced inwards than usual , in order to correspond .
This phenomenon actually occurs , for its distance from the end is mm. , while the theoretical value is form practically conical ) .
The lextra displacement , as in figs. 11 and 12 , is roughly half that of the median whorl , although now the displacements are in the opposite direction .
Vibrations upon the Form of Certain Sponge-Spicules .
585 Fig. 14.\mdash ; The spicule shown in this figure is practically a double cone , of length mm. The median whorl is at a distance of 40 mm. from the end more remote from the subsidiary whorl , instead of the theoretical distance , or mm. It is therefore displaced towards the subsidiary whorl to the extent of mm. The distance of the subsidiary whorl from the nearer end should be mm. , or mm. , whereas actual measurement gives a distance of mm. The displacement is therefore 1 mm. in the same direction as that of the median whorl .
In attempting to estimate the value of the coincidence between the actual positions of the whorls on the spicule as determined by observation , and the theoretical positions of the nodes as determined by calculation , several possible sources of error have to be considered .
In the first place , we have to make allowance for inaccuracies in the drawings which form the basis of the measurements .
Such inaccuracies may be expected to arise , partly from the difficulty of making an exact tracing of a very fine line by aid of the camera lucida and partly from the fact that the spicule does not lie absolutely horizontal , one end usually being at a slightly higher level than the other .
We have to remember also Chat a zone of comparative rest , in which there is but little variation in the amplitude of vibration , extends for some distance on either side of each node , and that the formative cells can hardly be expected to be possessed of the power of determining the exact position of least movement with absolute accuracy .
Evidence that they exhibit variations in this respect is gested by those cases in which the median whorl is shifted a little to one side or other of the central point of the shaft .
In such cases , however , the subsidiary whorl also tends to be shifted in the same direction , as though the two rings of formative cells which , on the analogy of Latrunculia bocagei , may be assumed to exist , were perhaps linked together , a state of things which , supposing that the cells in question form a sheath around the spicule ( as in Latrunculia ) , is very likely to occur .
It seems not impossible that alterations of surface tension may be responsible the dislocation of such a sheath as a whole .
On the whole , it is somewhat surprising to find how close the agreement between the observed and calculated positions of the whorls really is .
In order to demonstrate this agreement as clearly as possible , we have indicated , by means of arrows at the side of each spicule , in figs. 5-14 , the calculated positions of the nodes .
that particular case .
It might be argued that the possible sources of discrepancy are so great as to render mathematical treatment of the subject valueless .
That this is not the case , however , is shown by the fact that there is a demonstrable correlation between the shape of the ) and the position of the whorls , 586 Profs .
A. Dendy and J. W. Nicholson .
Influence of farbhertowardsthecentreofthespiculethanisrequiredbytheoryNothteriformhavihaditectedeffectinshiftithesubi.diaryThegeneraltendencyofthesubsidiarywhorlistobedisplacedrather whorl towards the centre .
correction has been made , however , for the curvature of the spicule , which must in itself produce such a tendency , and of a nitude in general agreement with the observed discrepancies .
This curvature cannot be accurately determined , because the apparent curvature must depend upon the position in which the spicule happens to be lying .
It must always be borne in mind , also , that the slight increase in total length of the spicule which takes place after the critical stage has been passed must tend to make the position of the subsidiary whorl appear to approach the centre .
Owing to the continued deposition of silica upon the shaft , which results in increase of both length and thickness , the adult spicule is useless for purposes of accurate mathematical investigation of the nodal points .
Nevertheless , it is easy to see that , due allowance being made for the disturbing factors , the position of the whorls in the adult spicule is approximately that required by theory .
There is surprisingly little variation in this respect , and although we have seen hundreds , or perhaps thousands , of adult individuals , we have never noticed a cass which is inconsistent with the vibratory theory .
In view of the relative scarcity of individuals at or near the critical stage , the evidence afforded by the examination of large numbers of adults , though it is impossible to carry out that examinaFIG .
15 .
tion with mathematical exactness , acquires considerable importance .
So far as we are aware , no case has as yet been satisfactorily established , at any rate previously to the observations on Latrunculia ' referred to , in which the occurrence of vibrations during development influences the final form of any part of an organism .
* We have here a new factor in * Since this paper was written we have found a reference , in Prof. D'Arcy Thompson 's recently published work on 'Growth and Form , ' p. 323 , to a suggestion by FitzGerald , that the patterns on the frustules of diatoms might be due to electro-magnetic vibrations .
We are not aware , however , that this suggestion has ever been supported by satisfactory evidence .
Prof. Thompson himself makes a similar suggestion with regard to the skeleton of certain radiolarians , but without any attempt at mathematical analysis , which , indeed , would be extremely difficult in such cases .
Vnbrations the Form of Sponge-Spicules .
587 ontogeny , and it will be of great interest in the to see whether this factor has played any part in the evolution of anisms outside the limits of the Phylum Porifera .
We do not propose to speculate upon this subject , but it may be well worth while for botanists and ists to keep a look out for possibilities in this direction .
No doubt the sponges are especially likely to exhibit cases in which vibrations play an important part , because the water-currents which flow through their canal system with considerable strength must tend to set up such vibrations in any elastic bodies of suitable shape embedded in the almost liquid mesogloea .
But even amongst the sponges , the demonstrable cases , so far as is yet known , are fined to members of the single sub-family Spirastrellinae , belonging either to the genus Latrunculia or to a closely related genus .
It is by no means impossible , however , that the form of certain other sponge-spicules may have been influenced by vibrations during development , though we are inclined to think that in most cases the action of surface tension is much more likely to aflord a profitable field of investigation .
In the case of the oxydiscorhabd , however , it does not seem possible to account for the position of the whorls except by the vibratory theory , and it seems highly probable that the same is true of the Latrunculicv discorhabd , although the latter has not been submitted to exact mathematical analysis .
The Lateral of Bars Section .
By J. W. NICHOLSON , M.A. , D.So .
, F.B.S. [ This paper , arising out of the foregoing , will appear in Series A of the ' Proceedings

