132 The Thermomagnetic Analysis Meteoric and Artificial NicJcel-lron Alloys .
By S. W. J. Smith , M.A. , A.R.C.S. , Royal College of Science , London .
( Communicated by Sir Arthur W. Rucker , F.R.S. Received November 1 , 1906 , \#151 ; Read February 14 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) The object of the paper is to show how a study of the variation with temperature of the magnetic properties can be applied ( 1 ) to the solution of the problem of the composition and structure of meteoric iron , and ( 2 ) to throw light upon the changes that take place with change of temperature in the internal structure of nickel-iron alloys .
The paper contains a study in detail of the changes in permeability ( for a field intensity of about 04 C.G.S. unit ) of a typical specimen of " octahedral " meteoric iron when the temperature is altered in various ways between about 0 ' C. and about 850 ' C. It contains also a study , for the purposes of comparison , ( 1 ) of a sample of " nickel steel " containing nearly the same percentage of iron as the meteorite , ( 2 ) of a sample of nearly pure iron .
The author desires to express his indebtedness in the experimental part of this work to the assistance he received from Mr. John Satterly .
The specimens used were in the form of rings , and points of importance and interest in connection with the conditions under which the different measurements of permeability and temperature were made are discussed .
An attempt is made to interpret the permeability-temperature curves in terms of the theory of solid solution .
The hypothesis of the formation of " mixed crystals " is briefly discussed , and evidence of the connection between permeability and change in the state of crystallisation is given .
The facts already known with respect to meteoric nickel-iron are then summarised , with the object of showing how they can be interpreted by means of the above theory .
Qualitative arguments based upon the results of microscopic and chemical analyses are given to show that the " kamacite " of meteoric iron which shows Widmanstatten figures is the most nickel-rich of one type of nickel-iron crystals , and that the " taenite " is a eutectic mixture of kamacite and of the least nickel-rich of another type of nickel-iron crystals .
The quantitative chemical data are shown to be explicable on the view that kamacite contains between 6 and 7 per cent , of nickel , and that taenite contains between 25 and 30 per cent , of nickel and is a mixture of kamacite and of other crystals containing about 40 per cent , of nickel .
The Thermomagnetic Analysis of Nickel-Iron Alloys .
133 The analogy between the behaviour of supersaturated solutions and of nickel-iron alloys\#151 ; particularly with reference to recent investigations of the distinction between the " metastable " and " labile " states\#151 ; is next discussed .
It is shown that all the peculiar variations observed in the permeability of the " irreversible " alloys studied can be explained in terms of this analogy and that , if the explanation is correct , confirmation of the modern theoretical view of the conditions of equilibrium between solid solutions and mixed crystals can be obtained from thermomagnetic data .
An essential consequence of the " mixed crystals " hypothesis is that mixed crystals of the nickel-poor type , at the transition temperature , are in equilibrium with a solid solution richer in nickel than the crystals themselves .
This conclusion seems to be definitely proved by the thermomagnetic results .
The bearing of thermomagnetic data upon the problem of the composition of meteorites is next considered , and it is shown from these data that the Sacramento meteoric iron is composed mainly of a nickel-iron alloy containing between 6 and 7 per cent , of nickel , and that it contains , in addition , a small quantity of a complex alloy , containing a total percentage of nickel between 25 and 30 , of which the nickel-rich constituent contains about 40 per cent. Ni .
The argument in this section of the paper is based upon well-established magnetic principles , and is independent of any theory of solution .
It seems to fix , definitely , the existence of a eutectic containing about 27 per cent. Ni in the nickel-iron series .
This result , if true , is of fundamental importance in the theory of nickel steels .
The evidence of the changes which occurred in the meteorite , during the course of the thermal treatment , is discussed .
Their effect upon the density of the material is shown to be in accord with the thermomagnetic results , and the importance , in any further thermomagnetic investigation of meteorites , of observing the variation of permeability during the first heating is explained .
The origin of the structure of meteoric iron and its relation to the rate of cooling of the material is discussed , in conclusion .
In an appendix , the effect of the first heating to 100 ' C. upon a new ring of the meteoric iron is given , and shown to confirm the view of the original structure of the meteorite stated in the paper .
An interpretation of recent thermomagnetic experiments on nickel steels containing between 30 per cent , and 24 per cent , of nickel ( Honda and Shimizu ) is also given , and it is submitted that the existence in these steels of the eutectic that occurs in meteoric iron can be demonstrated .
The relation between meteoric and artificial nickel-iron alloys is thus completely revealed and , at the same time , the value of the thermomagnetic method is established .

