Memoranda made during the appearance of the 'Aurora Borealis on the 1 Sth of November , 1835 .
By CHARLES C. CHRISTIE , Esq. M.A. Communicated by S. HUNTER CHRISTIE , Esq. M.A. F.R.S. 8jc .
Received and Read December 10 , 1835 .
As the following Memoranda , noted down during the remarkable Aurora of the 18th of November , have been considered of sufficient interest to be read before the Royal Society , I think it right to state , that I did not anticipate that this would be the case , and that my only object in making thejn was , to record carefully whatever remarkable appearance might present itself , for the information of one who , I knew , felt a deep interest in every phenomenon of the kind , and whose simultaneous observations I hoped to have the pleasure of comparing with my own .
Being , however , unwilling to make any alteration in a statement of facts , I have preferred leaving them exactly as they were communicated , merely offering a few additional explanations and remarks , suggested by striking exhibitions of the phenomenon .
Memoranda .
Wednesday evening , 9 o'clock.-Remarked , on looking accidentally from the drawing-room window of Deal Castle , a bright light over Ramsgate , exactly as if the moon were about to rise in that quarter .
Saw , on proceeding to the roof , a perfect and very bright arch to the north ; the lower edge being sharply defined on the dark cloud beneath , the upper shaded off into the sky .
The sky , except beneath the luminous arch , perfectly cloudless ; the stars shining brightly down to its upper edge .
The wind rather high and .
gusty , not particularly cold , and north-north-west ( by the ventometer ) .
Altitude of the arch about that of y Ursae Majoris .
Western extremity terminating exactly below M Aquilae .
9h Sm.-The arch itself motionless , but large bodies of faint vapoury light continually ascending from it , and whirled in every direction , across the zenith , &amp;c. , as if by the wind , and with such rapidity as scarcely to be followed by the eye .
These frequentlyrose perpendicularly , and were then sharply whisked off towards the southeast .
( See Sketch 1 .
Plate II .
) 9h 15m .
A fine outbreak of pencils of light from the centre and eastern extremity of the arch ; none of them stationary , or in straight lines , but waving more or less and flickering , as if with the wind ; masses of vapoury light whirled up occasionally ; the whole presenting the appearance of an immense and not distant , conflagration , while thp paleness of the light and the absence of noise gave it a spectral and unearthly character , which was very striking .
The gusts of wind increased the illusion .
( See Sketch 2 .
Plate II .
) 9h 20m , -The arch becoming very irregular ; a large indentation on the eastern side , thus : Fig. A. The pseudo-flames have almost entirely subsided ; they still exhibit the same ab pearance of burning , but in a steadier manner .
The centre of the arch is about equidistant from 7 Ursae Majoris and a Lyroa .
9h 25m._ The western extremity suddenly blazed up ; one very broad pencil of rose-coloured light forming the western boundary to the rest ; through it a Aquilhe shone with great brilliancy .
All these westerly pencils perfectly straight , of greater altitude , and of a more defined and steady light than the easterly .
Extremely narrow brilliant jets of light issuing from the central part , and having their base in the midst of the dark cloud .
( See Sketch 3 .
Plate III .
) 9h 27m._-Arch dilapidated .
( See Sketch 4 .
Plate IJI .
) 9h 30m.-Arch entirely broken up .
9h 35m.._The arch restored , but of an irregular undulating form , thusX Fig. B. The light faint er , as also the pencils which continue to rise from every part , bu iore distinctly from the two extremities .
9h 55m , -The arch much depressed , and in form thus : Fig. C. The cloud below much darker , the pencillings very faint .
1 oh 20m .
The arch strongly defined and steady ; but occasional gleams , as of the vapoury light rising in a body simultaneously from the whole extent of it .
The cloud very dark , and of this form : Fig. D. I regret that I was unable to wait for the total disappearance of the phenomenon , though for nearly an hour there had been no promise of any fresh display .
Nuote.-By the term arch is indicated the under surface of the body of light Remark8 Having at the time no instruments for determining the bearing or altitude of the arch , I was obliged to depend upon the positions of some conspicuous stars , which were conveniently situated for that purpose .
According to these rough data , the altitude was 180 ; the angle subtended by the span of the arch about 130 ?
the bearing of the centre of the arch north-north-west , true , or very nearly magnetic north ; and the arch was consequently at right angles to the magnetic meridian .
The body of light was nearly colourless ; its brightness was similar to that seen on the edge of a cloud when the moon is about to rise behind it , with , however this striking difference , that the stars were distinctly seen through the diffused light of its upper surface , and those in the tail of the Bear shone clearly in the very body of the light on the right hand .
With regard to the sketches with which I have attempted to illustrate the ' preceding notes , it is necessary to observe , first , that the extent of horizon renders it impossible to give in one view any idea of the magnificent scale on which the original was depicted , or even to preserve very correctly the relative proportions of height and breadth ; and next , that in sketches I. and It .
the rapid motion of the bodies of vapoury light , and of the flame-like pencils , must be held in mind : the former bore K exact resemblance to the faint reflected light darting across the sides of a room from a mirror turned sharply in the hand , and the latter , to the lambent flames which diluted spirit of wine , poured on a flat surface and ignited , will exhibit when half extinguished .
The pencils which appeared in front of the dark cloud , of which there were not more than three , were very distinct in their character from the others ; they were of a yellower tinge , and extremely narrow throughout their whole height .
I have stated , that they issuedfrom the dark cloud ; perhaps it would be more correct to say , that they pierced through it ; for although I did not observe the instant of their appearance , being at the moment engrossed by the display on the left , yet , in each , the brightness of the base , which was , as it were , the nucleus of its light , seemed to warrant this idea .
The mere circumstance , however , of their appearance in front of the cloud , tends to elucidate a point on which there exists much difference of opinion , the height of the aurora in the atmosphere .
The dark cloud itself can scarcely be supposed to have occupied a very elevated region ; and it is manifest , that if these brilliant pencils had their origin in , or in advance of , the cloud , their bases must have been of inferior altitude to its upper portion , and equally so , if they were identical with any continuation of the luminous matter of the arch , concealed by the cloud .
The first appearance of the aurora at nine o'clock , was that of a dark convex cloud , cutting off the luminous arch , and concealing a body of light behind , the eye naturally referring the light to a more distant region , while the sharp line of division threw the cloud forward .
Subsequent appearances , however , did not seem to confirm this Mncccxxxv I. F notion , but , on the contrary , induced me to consider , whether the dark cloud might not be a substratum of matter differing in nature and density from the superincumbent arch of light .
The following are the facts which appear to favour this supposition .
First ; every great outbreak of coruscations from the luminous arch produced a corresponding disturbance in the part of the cloud immediately below .
Thus , during the display at 9h 15m , the arch was gradually losing its regular form on the right , and at 9h 20m I noted it " very irregular , with a large indentation on the eastern side , " while on the west , where the body of light was undisturbed , the arch remained perfect .
Thus also , immediately after the western half had sbeen in vivid coruscation , the whole of the arch was " Idilapidated , " and finally , " entirely broken up .
" Secondly ; neither the straight nor waving pencils appeared to proceed from behind the cloud , but always front the upper surface of the light .
Thirdly ; when the arch was " dilapidated " ( see Sketch IV .
) , it was not merely its upper surface which was of irregular form , but masses of it were lying in confusion , separated from each other by a boundary of light , not appearing in the least as if light behind were shining through , but rather as if the substances of the arch and cloud had unwillingly interpenetrated each other , and refused to mix together more intimately , while at the same time the light above became more diffused and of diminished brightness .
Lastly ; when at 9 " 35rn the continuity of the arch is restored , it remains " 'of irregular undulating form " ( fig. B. ) , while fainter pencils continue to rise from every part ; at 9h 55m the cloud is cc much darker , " " the pencillings very faint , " while its form is evidently becoming more regular ( from fig. B. to fig. C. ) ; and at 101 20m it is nearly perfect in form ( fig. D. ) , " cstrongly defined and steady , " the pencillings having entirely ceased .
All these circumstances struck me as so closely resembling the disturbance of two fluids , the one superposed on the other , mutually repulsive , but compelled to mingle by forces , of whose action the vividness of the pencillings seemed to indicate the intensity , and requiring intervals of repose to re-collect their scattered energies , that I cannot but conclude the luminous matter of an aurora to be a superincumbent stratum and , consequently , that its altitude is dependent on that of the dark mass immediately beneath .
Bath , January 4th , 1836 .

