1895.J On the Analysis of Voluntary Muscular Movements .
477 VII .
" On the Analysis of Voluntary Muscular Movements by certain new Instruments .
" By William R. Jack , M.D. , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor J. Gr .
McKendrick , F.R.S. Received January 25 , 1895 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of Glasgow .
) ( Abstract .
) The object of this investigation was to determine the greatest speed of which the voluntary muscular movements were capable , and how far the speed was influenced by age and education .
It was decided to limit the research to a study of the movements of the fingers , as being the easiest parts to examine of the muscular system .
The writer has to acknowledge his indebtedness to Professor McKendrick for much valuable assistance and advice .
The first instrument used was one devised by Professor McKendrick , and figured at p. 78 of his 4 Life in Motion ' ( first edition , 1892 ) .
It consisted essentially in a tuning fork , carrying a smoked microscopic slide , and set in motion by a bichromate cell .
With all its loads , the fork made 117 double vibrations per second , as determined by the chronograph .
Lines drawn upon the attached slide perpendicular to the plane of vibration were , therefore , thrown into waves , each of which represented the space passed over in 1"/ 117 .
The different movements investigated in this way were the following:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The greatest velocity attainable by the single contraction of one finger , to which a finely-pointed needle was affixed .
( 2 .
) The greatest velocity attainable by the single contraction of the fingers in combined action .
For this purpose the needle was fixed in a penholder , and held like a pen , care being taken to see that there was no movement of the wrist , but only of the fingers .
( 3 .
) The greatest velocity obtainable in ordinary writing .
In this way , therefore , the velocities of a series of movements increasing in complexity could be compared .
The velocity of curves and of curvilinear figures was also compared with that of straight lines .
Twenty-three normal and two pathological cases were examined .
The normal cases were divided into three classes : those of special manual education ( musicians ) , those of average manual education ( the ordinary educated classes ) , and those of inferior manual education ( working men ) , in whom the hands were accustomed only to coarse movements , and the fingers had no special training .
Of the first class there were five examples ; of the second and of the third , nine .
The ages varied from 18 to 62 .
While the tracings were being made the hand rested on a little table at the height of the recording slide .
It was found that the 478 Dr. W. R. Jack .
On the Analysis oj Voluntary [ Mar. 21 velocity of the more complicated movements could be increased to some extent by practice .
Only a few preliminary tracings , to accustom the band to the instrument , were therefore allowed to each subject , in order that all might be as much as possible on the same footing .
Full details of the velocities attained in each case , and figures of the apparatus used , are given in the original essay .
In this abstract only a statement of the results attained will be made .
It is not contended that the figures there given represent the absolute velocities of the movements made , for the retarding influence of friction on the slide has to be allowed for , and the increase in the space travelled over through the extension of the needle beyond the end of the fingers .
But , as all the subjects were under the same conditions , a comparative estimate of the velocities may be arrived at .
Beginning with the influence of training upon the velocity of the movements , the pen-movement was first studied , and the rate at which a distance of 3 cm .
in the middle of the slide was traversed was taken as the standard of .
comparison .
Unfortunately no tracings of this movement were taken from musicians , but , on comparing the average of the tracings derived from those of average and those of inferior manual education , the following conclusions were arrived at .
( 1 .
) That in those of inferior manual education ( whose two hands were both untrained ) the velocity is equal in both hands ( 3'4"/ 117 for the right and 3*5"/ 117 for the left hand ) .
( 2 .
) That in those of average manual education the velocity is greater in the right hand , which has been trained ( as in writing ) than in the left , which has not ( 2 9"/ H7 for the right and 3'6"/ 117 for the left hand ) , an exception being found in the case of the author , both of whose hands had been pretty equally trained , in which case both had the same velocity ( 3"/ 117 ) .
( 3 .
) That the velocity is greater in the right hand of those of average education than in the right hand of those of inferior education .
( 4 .
) That the velocity in the left hand ( which has been little trained ) of those of average education is practically identical with that in the left hand of those of inferior education .
The velocity of contraction of a single finger was next examined with the following results:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That the velocity is equal , or nearly so ( 2"/ H7 ) in the first and second fingers , and is greater than that in the third and fourth , which have also a nearly equal velocity .
This may be due to the special arrangement of the tendon of the extensor communis digito-rum for the third finger , and for the fourth to the awkward position in which it was placed .
( 2 .
) The velocity of each finger is practically identical for the two hands .
1895.J Muscular Movements by certain new Instruments .
( 3 .
) That the velocity of the finger-movements is not appreciably affected by manual training .
The most rapid single contraction of the fingers of a trained pianist is very slightly , or not all , faster than i that of a working man .
( 4 .
) The velocity of movements of flexion is on the average slightly greater than that of movements of extension , although in 1 two of the eight cases examined the velocities were identical .
( 5 .
) The velocity of the finger-movements , as a whole , is greater | than that of the pen-movements .
In examining the more complicated movements of writing it was | found:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That the average velocity is practically the same in musicians and in those of average education , their training in this regard being nearly equal .
( 2 .
) That the velocity in the untrained working-cl asses is much less than in the two former .
( 3 .
) That the velocity in all classes is much less than in the pen-movements .
( 4 .
) That the curved parts of letters and figures are more slowly formed than the rectilinear parts , and that the velocity of a curve varies , roughly speaking , with the radius of curvature .
The difference , then , between education and the want of it is greatest in writing , less in pen-movements , and scarcely noticeable in the simple finger-movement .
And the average velocity for all classes is least in writing , much greater in pen-movements , and greatest in finger-movements .
The velocity therefore diminishes , and the difference between the various classes increases as the movements become more complex .
The more nearly they approach to a simple muscular contraction , the less is the difference noticeable ; though it would , doubtless , be found that the musician is able to repeat a series of simple muscular contractions much more rapidly than one with untrained fingers .
The influence of age upon the velocity of the movements was next investigated , and it was found , with regard to writing:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That the velocity of the movements of writing becomes slower with advancing age .
( 2 .
) That it is greatest between the ages of 20 and 29 , and decreases with every decade thereafter .
( 3 .
) That this decrease is greater in the uneducated than the educated .
With regard to pen-movemeuts it was found:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That the decrease in velocity is less marked than in the case ( 2 .
) That the velocity is greatest between the ages of 20 and 29 .
( 3 .
) That the difference in the rate of decrease between the of writing .
480 Analysis of Voluntary Muscular Movements .
[ Mar. 21 educated and uneducated classes is not so marked as in the case of writing .
With regard to finger-movements it was found that they retained nearly the same velocity for all classes between the ages of 20 and 50 ; aod that in the one case of a man over that age ( a labourer , set .
62 ) there was a decided decrease .
In the two pathological cases investigated , one of lateral sclerosis in a man of 41 , and one of tremor of the hands , following upon syphilis , in a man of 50 , similar results were obtained .
For the complex movements of writing were most seriously retarded , the pen-movements less , and the finger-movements least of all .
It appears , then , that as a movement increases in complexity , and involves in its performance the associated action of a greater number of muscles , its velocity diminishes , and the influence of education becomes more distinctly manifest .
And as complex movements require a longer education for their rapid performance , so they appear to become sooner defective than , the simpler movements .
For it is in writing that the retarding effect of age is most apparent , while it is least so in the finger-movement .
In the second part of the investigation it was desired to obtain tracings from a larger series of contractions than could be registered upon a microscopic slide .
For this purpose new instruments were required , and owing to the long delay in making these , but few experiments have been recorded .
The instrument finally adopted consisted in a long steel bar , held firmly in an iron clip , and carrying in a clamp attached to one end a smoked glass plate 6 inches square .
It was set in motion by an electro-magnet through which passed the current from a storage battery , and , as determined by the chronograph , it made fifty-four double vibrations per second .
At Professor McKendrick 's suggestion it was determined rather to investigate with this instrument the phenomena of fatigue , a purpose for which he thought it very suitable .
With this object , Mosso 's ergograph was adapted to the instrument , the recording part of which could be pulled on rails slowly away from under the registering lever , which worked up and down with the movement of the weighted finger .
Thus a series of contractions and relaxations , divided by the oscillations of the bar into fifty-fourths of a second , was registered on each plate .
The plate could be taken out , and a new one substituted , beneath the lever , without stopping the movement of the finger .
A key was interposed in the circuit to shut off the current while the plates were being changed .
Four normal and two pathological cases were investigated , series of tracings being taken with a S kilo .
, a 1 kilo .
, and a 2 kilo , weight .
They show in a very striking manner the diminution in height of the contraction , and the coincident diminution in its velocity , due to 1895.1 Influence of Sensory Nerves upon Movement , fyc .
481 fatigue .
The measurements which were taken of the rates of velocity at different parts of the tracings afford somewhat varying results , and the number of cases is too few for any definite conclusions to be drawn from them .
But it would appear that while the diminution is gradual and uniform in the case of small weights , in that of larger weights it occurs , as a rule , more rapidly , and that the rate of diminution does not remain the same throughout the tracing .
VIII .
" Experiments upon the Influence of Sensory Nerves upon Movement and Nutrition of the Limbs .
Preliminary Communication .
" By F. W. Mott , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , and C. S. Sherrington , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 7 , 1895 .
In the 14th of the .
Le9ons sir la Physiologie et la Pathologie du Systeme Nerveux , ' Claude Bernard draws attention by experiments on the frog and on puppies to the degree of impairment in movement undergone by a limb that has been rendered insensitive by section of the sensory roots of its spinal nerves .
In a series of experiments carried out during the last eighteen months , we have examined the same thing in the monkey , using chiefly Macctcus rhesus , and observing the animals for periods up to four months from the time of operation.* We propose to give here a brief account of the results obtained .
Our experiments deal separately with the lower limb and with the upper limb .
The phenomena observed in the two limbs do not essentially differ , but are rather more marked and much more accessible to examination in the case of the upper limb .
I. On Movement .
( 1 .
) Effect of Section of the whole Series of Sensory Roots belonging to the Limb.\#151 ; By the " whole series " is meant in the brachial region from the 4th cervical to the 4th thoracic inclusive ; in the lumbar from the 2nd to the 10th post-thoracic inclusive .
Prom the time of performance of the section onwards , as long as the animal may be kept , the movements of the hand and foot are practically abolished ; the movement of grasping , which is so frequent and useful to the monkey , both with the hand and foot , never occurs at all in our experience .
On the other hand , the movements at the elbow and knee , and especially the movements at the shoulder and hip , are much less impaired .
The fore limb hangs from the shoulder partially flexed at the elbow ; the hind limb is flexed at hip * In all our operations the animals have been deeply anaesthetised with chloroform and ether .
VOL. LVII .
2 M

