III .
" On the Surface-condensation of Steam .
" By J. P. JOULE , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received Oct. 10 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) In the author 's experiments steam was passed into a tube , to the outside of which a stream of water was applied , by passing it along the concentric space between the steam-tube and a wider tube in which the steam-tube was placed .
The steam-tube was connected at its lower end with a receiver to hold the condensed water .
A mercury gauge indicated the pressure within the apparatus .
The principal object of the author was to ascertain the conductivity of the tube under varied circumstances , by applying the formula suggested by Professor Thomson , wVC= log-a v where c is the area of the tube in square feet , w the quantity of water in pounds transmitted per hour , V and v the differences of temperature between the inside of the steam-tube , and the refrige .
rating water at its entrance and at its exit .
The following are some of the author 's most important conclusions .
1 .
The pressure in the vacuous space is sensibly the same in all parts .
2 .
It is a matter of indifference in which direction the refrigerating water flows in reference to the direction of the steam and condensed water .
3 .
The temperature of the vacuous space is sensibly equal in all its parts .
4 .
The resistance to conductivity must be attributed almost entirely to the film of water in immediate contact with the inside and outside surfaces of the tube , and is little influenced by the kind of metal of which the tube is composed , or by its thickness up to the limits of that of ordinary tubes .
5 .
The conductivity increases up to a limit as the rapidity of the stream of water is augmented .
6 .
By the use of a spiral of wire to give a rotary.motion of the water in the concentric space , the conductivity is increased for the same head of water .
The author , in conclusion , gives an account of experiments with atmospheric air as the refrigerating agent ; the conductivity is very small in this case , and will probably prevent air being employed for the condensation of steam except in very peculiar circumstances .

