I. " On Uniform Rotation .
" By C. W. SIEMENS , F.R.S. Received March 10 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) The paper sets out with an inquiry into the conditions of the conical pendulum as a means of obtaining uniform rotation .
This instrument , as applied by Watt to regulate the velocity of his steam-engines , is shown to be defective , -first , because the regulated position of the valve depends upon the angular position of the pendulums , and therefore upon the velocity of rotation , which must be permanently changed in order to effect an adjustment of the valve ; and secondly , because when the balance between force and resistance of the engine at a given velocity is disturbed , the angular position of the pendulums will not change until a power has been created in them , through acceleration of the engine , sufficient to overcome the mechanical resistance of the valve , giving rise to a series of fluctuations before a balance between the power and resistance of the engine is reestablished .
These defects in Watt 's centrifugal governor are shown to be obviated in the chronometric governor , an instrument which was proposed by the author of the paper twenty-three years ago , and which consists of a conical pendulum proceeding at a uniform angle of rotation , and therefore at uniform speed , which is made to act upon the regulating-valve by means of a differential motion between itself and the engine to be regulated , which latter has to accommodate itself to the rotations imposed by the independent pendulum .
The differential-motion wheels are taken advantage of for imparting independent drivingor sustaining-power to the pendulum ; and a constancy of the angle of rotation , notwithstanding unavoidable fluctuations in the sustaining-power , is secured ( within certain limits ) by calling into play a break , or fluid resistance , at the moment when the angle of rotation reaches a maximum , which maximum position is perpetuated by increasing the sustaining-power beyond what is strictly necessary to overcome the ordinary resistance of the pendulum .
The chronometric governor is used by the Astronomer Royal to regulate the motion of the large equatorial telescope and recording apparatus at Greenwich , in which application a very high degree of regularity is attained ; but the instrument proved to be too delicate in its adjustments for ordinary steam-engine use .
After a short allusion to M. Foucault 's governor , the paper enters upon the description of a new apparatus which the writer has imagined for obtaining uniform rotation , notwithstanding great variations in the drivingpower , and which consists , in the main , of a parabolic cup , open at top and bottom and mounted upon a vertical axis , which cup dips with its smaller opening into a liquid contained within a casing completely enclosing the cup .
It is shown that a certain angular velocity of the cup will raise the liquid ( entering from below ) in a parabolic curve to its upper edge or brim , and that a very slight increase of the velocity will cause actual overflow , in the form of a sheet of liquid , which , being raised and projected against the sides of the outer chamber , descends to the bath below , whence fresh liquid continually enters the cup .
Without the overflow scarcely any power is required to maintain the cup , with the liquid it contains , in motion ; but the moment an overflow ensues , a considerable amount of power is absorbed in raising and projecting a continuous stream of the liquid , whereby further acceleration is prevented , and nearly uniform velocity is the result .
When absolute uniformity is required , the cup is not fixed upon the rotating axis , but is suspended from it by a spiral spring , which not only supports its weight , but also transmits the driving-power by its torsional moment .
The cup is guided in the centre upon a helical surface , which arrangement has for its result that an increase of resistance or of driving-power produces an increased torsional action of the spring , and with it an automatic descent of the cup , sufficient to make up for the thickness of overflow required to effect the readjustment between power and resistance , without permanent increase of angular velocity .
It is shown that the density of the liquid exercises no influence upon the velocity of the cup , which velocity is expressed by the following formula , p2 n-2r7r in which n signifies the number of revolutions per second , h the height of liquid from the surface to the brim of cup , r the radius of the brim , and p the radius of lower orifice of cup ; only the rigidity of the spring must be greater when a comparatively dense liquid is employed .
In order to test the principle of action here involved , Mr. Siemens has constructed a clock consisting of a galvanic battery , an electro-magnet , and his gyrometric cup , besides the necessary reducing-wheels and hands upon a dial face , which proceeds at a uniform rate , although the driving-power may be varied between wide limits , by the introduction of artificial resistances into the electrical circuit .
The instrument appears , therefore , well calculated for regulating the speed of all kinds of philosophical apparatus , and also for obtaining synchronous rotations at different places for telegraphic purposes .
One of its most interesting applications is embodied in the " Gyrometric Governor " for steam-engines , of which an illustration is given .
This consists of a cup of 200 millinetres diameter and the same height , which is fixed upon its vertical axis of rotation , and is enclosed in an outer chamber , containing water in such quantity that the lower extremity of the cup dips below its surface .
The upper edge of the rotating cup is , in this application , surrounded by a stationary ring armed with vertical vanes , by which the overflowing liquid is arrested and directed downward , causing it to fall through a space or zone which is traversed by a number of radial and vertical blades projecting from the external surface of the rotating cup , which , in striking the falling liquid , project it with considerable force against the sides of the outer vessel , at the expense of a corresponding retarding effect on the cup , increasing its regulating-power .
The cup-spindle carries at its lower extremity a pinion , which gears into two planet-wheels at opposite points , which on their part gear into an inverted wheel surrounding the whole , which latter is fastened upon a vertical shaft in continuation of the cup-spindle , and is driven round by the engine in the opposite direction to the motion of the cup .
The two intermediate or planet-wheels are attached to a rocking frame supported , but not fixed , upon the central axis , which wheels , in rotating upon their studs , are also free to follow the impulse of either the pinion or the inverted wheel to the extent of the differential motion arising between them .
The rocking frame is connected to the regulating valve of the engine , and also to a weight suspended from a horizontal arm upon the valve-spindle , tending to open the valve and at the same time to accelerate the cup to the extent of the pressure produced between the teeth of the planet-wheels and the pinion , while the engine is constantly employed to raise the weight and to cut off the supply of steam .
The result is that the engine has to conform absolutely to the regular motion imposed by the cup , which will be precisely the same when the engine is charged with its maximum or its minimum of resisting load .
The paper shows that the action upon the valve must take place at the moment when the balance between the power and load of the engine is disturbed , and that the readjustment will be effected notwithstanding a resistance of the valve exceeding 100 kilogrammes-a result tending towards the attainment of several important objects .

