Part of two Letters from the Rev. Henry Miles , D. D. &amp; F. R. S. to Mr. Henry Baker , F. R. S. containing some Electrical Observations .
I. Dear Sir , *** ON my making use of one of my Boxes filled with Pitch , Wax , &amp;c. for the Person to be electrify 'd to stand upon , after using it a little while successfully , I got the Man who assisted to wipe the Surface of the Pitch , &amp;c. with a dry clean Cloth , suspecting , from the Place it had stood in , some Dampness might lodge thereon .
This being done , for my Satisfaction I set up the Box on one Side , and held a Thread of Trial at a proper Distance , and found it to attract and repel the same : But , on setting it down , and standing upon it , by no means could it be made appear that I was electrify 'd , or any other Person who stood thereon afterwards .
I thereupon took another Box of the same sort , but made use of it without wiping it , and it performed well .
This I have not yet repeated , but intend to do it .
Read April 17 .
1746 .
In In a Pint-Bottle of Flint-Glass I have some small Pieces of brass Leaf , and the Bottle hermetically sealed .
Upon trying whether the excited Tube would much affect the said Leaf , I was at first disappointed in my Expectations ; for tho ' the Tube was so well excited , as that , upon bringing it near the Bottle , strong and loud Snaps were given , there was hardly any sensible Motion in the brass Leaf , till I thought of warming the Bottle at the Fire ; and then there was a considerable one , tho ' not what I expected before I made any Trial .
But I suspect the Bottle to be too thick ; for , on trying a common Flask , which we sealed in the Fire , the Leaf which I had put in was very strongly both attracted and repelled a great many times .
One odd Circumstance I will tell you , and detain you no longer : Upon my lifting up the Tube hastily by chance , I observed the Leaf to be powerfully attracted by the Sides of the Bottle or Flask next to the Tube : This put me on trying purposely what the Effect would be , if , when a Person held Either in his Hand sideways , so as the Neck was parallel with the Horizon ; I took the excited Tube , and moved it up and down towards and from the Floor , at 3 or 4 Inches from the Bottle , successively , as fast as I could , without hazarding my striking against it ; upon which the brass Leaf was as successively attracted and repelled , or seemed to follow the Motion of the Tube , or was affected , as it would have been if I had beat the Air upon it , tho ' in a very inferior Degree , as you will suppose ; and thus it would be , if the Tube was held at a greater Distance ; and in the Flask , I carried my Hand so as that the Tube described a Circle about it , at the Distance of 6 or 7 Inches , the Whole of the Leaf would be put into a constant , reX gular regular Gyration , which would hold as long as I could well continue the Motion .
This seemed to me strange , that if I brought the Tube near , and removed the same slowly , no Motion ( especially in the Bottle ) was observed , or what was next to none ; and yet , that this sudden Motion of the Tube should produce such an Effect ; but I think it may be thus accounted for : While the Tube is held near the Bottle , &amp;c. for any time , the Leaf-Brass is kept in a State of Repulsion ; and therefore , under that Confinement in the Bottle , is motionless ; but , on my sudden withdrawing the Tube , the Side of the Glass opposite the Leaf serves as an Attractive to it , while the Side on which it lay repels it ; and thus , by the Motion of the Tube mentioned , there is a constant Succession of Attraction and Repulsion .
I am , in hopes soon to kiss your Hand at Crane-Court , Dear Sir , Your very affectionate Friend , and obliged humble Servant , H. Miles .
Tooting , March 20 .
1745-6 .
II .
*** Dear Sir , IT may be hardly worth while to tell you , that I fired common Spirit of Wine , at the Distance of 25 Feet , the Effluvia being conveyed by 3 Persons and 2 Laths of Deal , tied together thus : The Person to be electrify 'd immediately standing on a Cake of Wax , and holding one End of the Lath , another Person standing about the Middle of the Distance on another Cake , and supporting the Lath , and a third Person at the further End , who held the other End of the Lath , and fired the Spirit ; and sometimes held the Spoon , while a fourth Person fired them by Repulsion .
In this Experiment , instead of common Thread , I used Silver and Gold Twist , or what , I think , the Ladies call Plate ; and I have Reason to think this much better than the former .
I am so far from being of Abbe Nollet 's Mind , that I think no Sort of Glass is Proof against the Effects of a moist Air .
I conclude this from Mr. Watson 's Experiments and my own .
I told you before where I kept my Tube ; and I can assure you , I find as great a Difference as can well be in the same Tube , between what it is one Day and the next , even when I have seen no great Reason to expect , from any sensible Change in the Air , it should be so .
But whence arises that we call Moistness in the Air ?
I have many times known , that the Wind being N. and N.E. and tho ' it has rained all Day incessantly , the Air has been as dry ( so far as I could judge from natural Hygrometers , and from my Tube ) as in a fair Day ; and than some fair Days , drier , by the same Indications .
I begin to think , that , by careful Practice , the glass Tube may be brought to be a good Hygrometer for the Air .
I wish the Theory of the Air were more diligently and accurately considered : Certainly it has been neglected ; so Mr. Locke thought , a little before he died ; and said , The imperfect Discourse of Mr. Boyle 's , which was printed after his Decease , was the best Account we had .
And what has been done since ?
I was going to tell you ( for I write in a Hurry , that I may not lose the Conveyance which offers ) , that I believe Cushions , the Case Hair-cloth , and the Stuffing of Horse-hair , may be made to answer instead of Wax-Cakes .
I have one not 3 Inches thick in the Middle , even when it is not compressed , which will do well .
Pardon the Trouble I give you , and permit me to acknowledge , that I am , with all Sincerty , Dear Sir , Your most affectionate , and very much obliged humble Servant , H. Miles .
April 16 .
1746 .

