446 The Distribution of Micro-organisms in Air .
[ Dec. 9 , short space of time , so that a much larger volume of air can be conveniently operated upon than is the case with Hesse 's method .
Thus whilst the aspiration of 10 litres of air through Hesse 's apparatus takes about three-quarters of an hour , by the new method about 48 litres can be drawn through the tube in the same time , whilst a better plan is to take two tubes and alternately draw a definite volume of air through each , as by this means duplicate results are obtained .
5 .
As the whole ping , upon which the organisms from a given volume of air are deposited , is submitted to cultivation without subdivision , no error is introduced through the multiplication of results obtained from aliquot parts , and all the great difficulties attending equal subdivision are avoided .
6 .
The risk of aerial contamination in the process of is practically nil .
7 .
The apparatus required being very simple and highly portable , the method is admirably adapted for the performance of experiments at a distance from home , and in the absence of special laboratory appliances .
III .
" Further Experiments on the Distribution of Microorganisms in Air ( by Hesse 's method ) .
" By Percy I. Frankland , Ph. D. , B.Sc. , F.I.C. , F.C.S. , and T. G , Hart , A.R.S.M. Communicated by Professor FRANKLAND , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received November 22 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The authors record a number of experiments , made with Hesse 's apparatus , on the prevalence of micro-organisms in the atmosphere .
The results are intended to form a supplement to those already obtained by one of the authors , and published in the last volume of the Society 's 'Proceedings ' ( vol. 40 , p. 509 ) .
The greater number of the experiments have been performed on the roof of the Science Schools , South Kensington , the air of which has now been under observation at frequent intervals during the present year .
The authors point out the variations according to season , which have taken place in the number of micro-organisms present in the air collected in the above place .
The average results obtained were as follows 1886.1 On the Intra-ovarian Egg of some Osseous Fishes .
447 1886 .
Average number of micro-organism !
found in 10 litres of air by Hesse 's method .
January . . . .
4 March ... ... 26 May . . . .
31 June ... ... * 54 July ... 63 August 105 September . .
43 October 35 Experiments are also recorded showing the enormous increase in the number of micro-organisms present in the air of rooms consequent on crowding .
In illustration of this point the authors cite a series of experiments made in the Library of the Royal Society during the evening of the conversazione in June last , on which occasion the following results were obtained:\#151 ; Royal Society 's Number of micro-organisms Library .
found in 10 litres of air .
June 9 , 1886 .
9.20 p.m. ... ... ... ... ... . .
326 10.5 " ... ... ... ... ... 432 June 10 , 1886 .
10.15 a.m ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
130 In addition to determining the number of organisms present in a given volume of air , the authors have also , in each case , roughly estimated the number falling on a given horizontal surface by exposing dishes filled with nutrient gelatine and of known superficial area , as in the experiments previously published .
IV .
" On the Intra-ovarian Egg of some Osseous Fishes.** By Robert Soharff , Ph. D. , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor McIntosh , F.R.S. Received November 17 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) These researches were carried out while acting as assistant to Professor McIntosh , at the St. Andrew 's Marine Laboratory .
The chief material consisted of the intra-ovarian ovum of the gurnard ( gurnardus ) .
Many other marine forms , however , were examined . .
The paper has been divided into the following five paragraphs : \#151 ;

