]\gt ; An L'xperimental Estimation of thoe Theory of Ancestral Contributions in Heredity . .
D. DAnBISHIRE , Demonstrator of in the Royal College of Science , London .
( Communicated by J. Bretland Farmer , F.R.S. Received December 7 , 1908 , \mdash ; Read February 11 , 1909 .
) The experiments described in the were undertaken with the object of finding out if the proportions in which characters segregate in the eneration are affected by the distribution of those characters over the and ancestry of the forms crossed .
To this end I crossed a yellow pea with an extracted green in , and obtained a purely negative result .
The proportion of yellows and greens in the eneration from this cross did not differ sensibly from that obtaining in the generation from a cross between a pure yellow and a pure green .
The nature and result of the experiment may be summarised in the following , in which the two which I crossed are enclosed in brackets:\mdash ; per } ) cent. cent. DETAILS OF THE EXPIIRINIINT .
The The original cross which provided me with the extracted greens used in my experiment made by Mr. C. C. Hurst , and has been fnlly cril ) See Summar on p. 78 .
Mr. Darbishire .
Experimental Estimation of the [ Dec. 7 , by him .
* In the spring of 1905 , Mr. Hurst kindly sent me some seeds , the cotyledons of which belonged to the generation resulting from the cross which he had made .
All the seeds were borne on a single plant ( No. 31 ) , of which the following is the pedigree , which is copied exactly from the MS .
pedigree which Mr. Hurst sent to ms with the seeds:\mdash ; " " No. 1 , 9 Eclipse 8 .
( No. 5 ) RG RG WG ( Sample here ) .
I sowed the yellow round seeds of the sample which Mr. Hurst sent me cotyledoned plants generation ) in the spring of and harvested in the autumn of that year .
Of this generation only the were , as before , sown in the spring of 1906 , and was harvested in the auttunn of that year .
I kept some reen lound seeds from three plants of this generation , and it was this seed which produced the plants on which I made the crosses the results of which are recorded in this paper .
The characters of these three plants are summarised in the following table , which ives the numbers of the parent plants and of " " green\ldquo ; plant raised from their seeds , the numbers of the various kinds of seeds borne on the three parent plants , Soc vo ] .
28 , pp. reen , lound , wrinkled .
writes shape of hrht .
Throughout the present p ; the colour is wlitten tions of " " yellow ' " " " " \ldquo ; and " " Wl.inkleds ' in these genlel ntionlh will l at a later date .
" " ollc ) a with glec cotyledons .
1908 .
] Theory of Ancestral Contributions in Heredity .
( ii ) The Ydlows .
I shall now give a brief account of the various strains of yellow peas used in the experiment .
I had been endeavouring for some time previous to 1907 to together a collection of peas from widely separated sources , with a view to repeating the observations of Mendel and others on a broader basis of material .
The yellow strains thus obtained were used in this experiment .
I shall briefly describe them in the order in which they occur in my records , writing the number before the description of them .
( 477 ) This is a native Chinese cultiyated pea , and was procured for me in a village not far from Pekin by Dr. Korsakov , of the ussian Legation in Pekin .
Wen-dou is the name written on the packet in which they were sent .
The peas are yellow and round .
The pod and the peas themselves are very small , and have evidently not been imported from Europe ' the last half century , if , indeeci , there is any reason to suppose that they have been imported at all .
( 478 ) This is one of a set of peas which my ] .
F. J. procured from a shipping merchant who was kind enough to put up a few packets of seeds from cargoes which had been sbipped from various parts of the world .
478 was a particularly fine seed , resembling Victoria marrow , from a which had been shipped from Germany .
( 479 ) Nineteen seeds of this variety came into my possession at a meeting of the Natural History Society at the College of Science during l)ecember , 1906 .
It is a small yellow round pea .
From C. the same channel as 478 .
All yellow ( 492 ) A yellow round pea which I bought in Genoa in April , 1906 .
The parents of the plants which were used in this experiment grown in my garden in 1907 .
A yellow round pea .
( 493 ) The same as 492 , from a later sowing in 1907 .
nation of Cross-pollination effected in the following way:\mdash ; A er of suital ) ] was elected to function ) -parent ; one side of its ca1ina was torn , the carina theu tempo1arily slipped bunch of were remove with forceps , after it had been detel.nlilled that they had not yet .
A .
of to function as -parent wns selected and plucked from the } ) lant vLich 1 ) it ; the tip of its cariua ; cut off and the stiglua of pistil-palent was inserted into the aperture in the c.arina made by the cut , and i1lto the mass of pollen which it c.outained .
The cariua of the pistil-parent was ipped back , the staudal .
and Mr. Darbishire .
Experimental of the [ Dec. 7 , wings folded into their original position .
The flower was then labelled .
As a rule , I pollinated four flowers with the pollen of a single flower , in order to save time .
When more than one flower has been pollinated from a single flower , this fact is indicated in Tables I and II by writing all the crosses made with the pollen of a single flower on the same line ; except in cases in which different kinds of pistil-parents were fertilised from the same flower , wheu they are connected by a vertical bracket , as in crosses 121\mdash ; 124 ( Table I ) .
The flowers of the pistil-parent were not encIosed in bags after they had been pollinated .
I did not do this , because I had observed that bees did not visit the flowers until they were open , i.e. , a day or two after they had been pollinated .
The neglect of this precaution justified by the event .
With a single exception , all the crosses which ' ' took\ldquo ; proved successful , as could be determined in the autumn of the year in which the cross was made in the case of , and in the following autumn in the case of The exception referred to occurred in a cross between Wen-dou and a pure green\mdash ; Express , , cross No. 71 ( Table II ) .
When the pod containing the cotyledons was opened , it was found to contain four yellow and one green seed .
This was presumably due to the fact that the flower functioning as pistil-parent was operated on a little too late .
All the crosses between the pure yellow and extracted green are recorded in Table I. Those which gave no seed are by being printed in alics .
The date at which the crosses were made is written ainst the first of the crosses made on a given date .
Table II is a list of the ( successful ) control crosses , to be described ] ater on ( p. 69 ) .
Tables III to give the numbers of yellows and greens in individual families composing from the cross between the yellow and the extracted green , and a summary of all the families composing this is given after Table .
Tables and VIII give details of from the control crosses .
When there was any doubt as to the colour of a seed , it was recorded as doubtful .
The number of such seeds , if they occur , in each is given in the column with a ? .
The families of cotyledons from the cross between the pure yellow and the extracted green are given in two Iots , in one of which Tables III , , and V ) it has been possible to classify the families according to the green and also according to the yellow parent forms from which they have sprung , and in the other of which ( Table ) this cIassification has not been possible , owing to an accident .
This occurred during harvesting .
The plant or plants bearing the families from cross 1 were accidentally incorporated in a bundle with the plants from some other cross .
1 discovered this by finding the peg with 166 on it , after the day 's harvesting , rather deep in the ground ( the top was just covered ) , as I was hoeiug .
So that , knowing the mistake had occurred that day , I was able to know in which bundles 166 httd been incorporated .
If I had kept a record of the number of seeds I sowed from each cross , I should have been able to discover the plants bearing the from cross 166 during the process of recording ; but I had not done this , in these particula ] ' , partly because the ground had not been used for peas before ( not in itself a sufficient tification ) , and rtly because the seeds containing the cotyledons had been sown exactly 9 inches apart , so that if stray seeds did co1ne up , they could not escape detection .
( The rows were carefully exanlined during the process of weeding , was done with great minuteness with the hand , the smallest seedlings being removed ) .
The families of camlot , as a result of this accident , be classified to their yellow and green parent forms , have been given under a separate but it must be understood one of them which , there means contained an additional By " " family\ldquo ; I mean , in the present case , the number of on a plant .
reorganised the method of carrying out my experiments in snch a way that no further mistakes of this kind can occnr .
1908 .
] Theory of Ancestributions in He ' family borne on one or more plants .
I tried to identify it by the general look of its seeds , but although the cotyledons produced from the different types of yellows are often strikingly like their yellow grandparents , I did not sucoeed .
The only awback , however , which this accident entails is the impossibility of employiug these families for the purpose of determining the percentage of greens from crosses from the several green and yellow parent forms .
The total result from the families not classifiable by parent forms has been incorporated in the grand total ; as also has a plant which is recorded as having been " " accidentally left behind between 216 and 28 and not to either There were 161 yellow and 50 green seeds 011 it ( see Summary fter Table VI ) .
Fortunately , all the plants from crosses between the pure yellow and extracted green were grown on a plot by themselves , so that can be no question as to the of a plant like this .
Percjntages of ereens produced the several Ydlom Green Parent-forms .
I have classified all the families , from the cross betweell the pure yellow and extracted green , into groups according to their yellow grandparents , and also according to their green grandparents , where this was possible ( see preyious section ) , and have determined the proportions of ) reens in each of these groups with a view to finding out whether the close approximation to 25 per cent. , viz. , per cent. , which was the proportion of reens in the whole population ( including those families which could not be classified into groups ) , was also exhibited in each of these groups .
The percentage of greens , calculated from the total numbers of yellows recn in the classitiable families is .
Now it is quite conceivable that this total proportion may be compounded of widely divergent proportions , ranging perhaps from 10 to 40 per cent. , and each , possibly , characteristic of families from particular yellow or green grandparents .
In order to find out whether the deviations which might be expected to , and do , occur , are ynificant , or attributable to chance , it is necessary to calculate the Probable Error of the percentage .
Half the deviations should fall inside and half outside the Probable Error in the or direction ; and deviations greater than four times the Probable Error should not occur often .
The 1robable Error of the ratio , expressed as a , of any part to a whole ( in this case the ratio of the greens in a generation to the total number of seeds in that generation ) is calculated by the following formula , which I have used here :\mdash ; \mdash ; in which is the whole ( or the total number of seeds ) and is the part ( or the number of greens ) .
The table on the next page shows that of the VOL. LXXXL\mdash ; B. Mr. Darbishire .
Estimation of the [ Dec. 7 , 11 groups , 5 exhibit a deviation in a \mdash ; direction , and 6 in a direction .
Also that 7 of the deviations ( 478 , 479 , 481 , 482 , 493 , 483 , and 484 ) fall within the Probable Error and 4 outside , in only one of which is the deviation greater than thrice the Probable Error\mdash ; viz. , in 480 in which the actual deviation is a little over three and a-half times the Probable Error .
The application of this test , therefore , justifies us in concluding that the deviations from 25 per cent. which occur in each of these 11 groul ) are attributable to chance .
* For signification of these , ses pp. 62 and 63 .
The totals have been added up and written under the grouping by yellow parents and under the grouping by green grandparents .
But the percentage of greens , the actual deviation and Probable Error of the percentage calculated from these totals , have only been written once , i.e. , under the grouping by yellow grandparents .
A Special In the families raised from five of the crosses there occurred wrinkled as well as round seeds .
All these occurred in crosses made with the extracted green No. 484 , which is the only one of the three races of extracted greens used .
from which , on the Mendelian theory , wrinkled 1908 .
] Theory of Ancestral Contributions in Heredity .
seeds could arise ; for , as the table on p. 62 shows , neither of the other green rounds used occurred in a family in which wrinkleds also occurred .
The nature of the mating enclosed in brackets in the on p. 61 and of its subsequent progeny is of the type BR DD DR BR DR DD as far as the colour of the cotyledons is concerned .
But with regard to the shape of the cotyledons , the nature of the mating , in those cases which gave wrinkleds in , was of the type DR equal numbers of DR and DD individuals , the former of which , when allowed to self-fertilise , should produce rounds and wrinkleds in the proportion of 3 to 1 .
14 families from 5 different crosses contained wrinkled seeds ; in the case of 5 of these families I did not record the numbers of wrinkled , because I was not immediately alive to the interest of the case , and contented myself with recording the fact that both round and wrinkled did occur .
In the remaining 9 families I recorded the numbers , and the totals were 2605 round and 914 wrinkled , which gives a percentage of wrinkleds .
Let us look for a moment at the ancestry , that is to say , the characters of the ancestors of this cross .
The round hybrid , which gave rise to the in which this proportion of wrinkled occurred , was the result of the union of two rerunds , one of them , the yellow , presumably a pure round , and the other , the extracted green , a hybrid round .
This hybrid round was descended from an unbroken line of 4 " " \ldquo ; ancestors ( each of them hybrids in the Mendelian sense ) ; whilst behind that point half of the ancestors were round and half wrinkle , d. It will be convenient to display this ancestry in the form of a pedigree rree A , in which the crossing which gave rise to the in question is enclosed in a square bracket .
Each ancestor is represented by a circle , and its character is written immediately to the right of the circle ; the nature of the gametes borne by each ancestor being written within the circle .
Now let us write the pedigree on p. 61 out again ( Pedigree B ) in the same way as this , and compare the two ( see p. 68 ) .
The result obtained in from the experiment with cotyledon shape ( Pedigree A ) affords a more convincing a posteriori demonstration than that afforded by the experiment with cotyledon colour ( Pedigree B ) , of the correctness of the course of leaving the soma out of account in the attempt to predict the result of a given .
For , as is clearly seen by a Mr. Darbishire .
Experimental Estimation of the [ Dec. 7 , and ' per per cent. cent. PED GREE A. per per cent. cent. PEDIGREE B. conn)arison of the two cvrees , whereas in the case of cotyledon colour one of the parents of the hybrids , from the self-fertilisation of which the generation in question arose , bore the recessive character which reappeared in the proportion of per cent. in that generation ; in the case of cotyledon shape , neithc of the parents exhibited the recessive character .
Indeed , in the latter case the wrinkleds which appeared in had no ancestors bearing the wrinkled character for six ations 1ehind them .
Subjoined are details of the families in which regation into wrinkled ttnd round occurred .
fiose in which I did not count the number of wrinkleds are simply lnarked DIi .
The families 158.1 to 6 , and 175.1 to 4 , fall into the unclassifiable group ( see p. 64 ) .
They can , of course , be included in of greells in total of families in ation occurred , but not for the relative nllmbers of families from and ents .
1908 .
] of Ancestral Contributions Heredity .
The actual deviation of the percentage of wrinkleds from expectation is ; the Probable Error of this percentage is : so that the actual deviation is just less than twice reat as the Probable Error , and is certainly not significant .
Moreover , it is in the opposite direction to that which would afford any support to the theory of Ancestral Contributions .
Percentage of greens Probable ] of percentage The number of families fallin into the categories classifiable by yellow and green grandparents ) in which ation occurred was 8 ; the number of families from the same parents in which regation did not occur was 4 .
There should , on the Mendelian hypothesis , be equal numbers of the two cent. cent. .
But I do not think it desirable to base any conclusion on numbers so small as these .
Control C'rosses .
The evidence on which the statement that the reens occur in the proportion of 25 per cent. in the generation from a cross between a pure yellow and a pure green pea is based , has been collected by Mr. Lock in his useful paper on " " The Present State of Knowledge of Heredity in Mr. Darbishire .
Experimental Estimation of the [ Dec. 7 , Pisum.\ldquo ; * Subjoined is the table in which the details of this evidence are summarised by Mr. Lock .
I give it in full because it embodies the result in from the cross made by Mr. Hurst , in from which the extracted greens which I used in my experiment occurred .
The percentage of greens calculated from the total is .
the actual deviation is less than the Probable Error .
Besides the above , I have some evidence based on observations made by me which more strictly deserve to rank as controlot ) servations .
This evidence is based on the result of crosses made between the identical yellow races used in the experiment , and , with the exception of the few crosses made in 1906 , from the pollen from the identical crop of plants which were the yellow parents in the cross between the pure yellow and extracted green ( see Table II ) .
The details of the F2 families raised from these control crosses are given in Tables and VIII .
The total number of yellows raised was 4015 , and of greens 1394 , the percentage of greens being .
The Probable Error of the percentage is , so that the actual deviation , less twice the Probable Elror , is certainly not significant .
The expense of carrying out this experiment was defrayed by a grant from the Government Grant Committee of the Society , and I take this opportunity of expressing my debtedness to them .
I also wish to express my thanks to Mr. Udny Yule and to Dr. E. Schuster for some preliminary statistical assistance , and to Mr. Charles Biddolph for clerical hel An experiment has been devised to test the truth of the theory of Ancestral Contributions : the results of the experiments prove : ( a ) That the pheuomena of dominance , and , what is more important , of the regation of characters in definite proportions , are independent of the ncestry ( and of the source ) of the parent-forms mated .
* Annals of the Royal Bota ) Gardens , Peradeniya , ' vol. 4 , Part III .
1908 .
] Theory of Contributions in Heredity .
( b ) That the recessive character which reappears in is as pure as that borne by a pure race , as tested by the results obtained from its union with a pure dominant character .
( c ) That there is like Ancestral Contributions within the limits of a single unit-character .
( d ) That in the attempt to predict the result of a given mating the somatic characters not only of the parents and of the ancestors*of the individuals mated , but of the individuals themselves , may be entirely left out of account ; and that the expectation based on a theory of the contents of the germ cells of the two individuals mated is fulfilled .
SYNOPSIS CONTENTS 0F TABLES Those tables VIII ) which embody the result of the control observations ( see p. 70 ) are printed in italics .
Page I.\mdash ; Matings between Pure Yellows and Extracted Greens 72 Table II.\mdash ; Matings between Pure Yellows and Pure 73 Table III.\mdash ; Particulars of Families from Crosses made between Pure Yellows and acted ( No. 483 73 Table Ditto .
No. 484 75 Table Ditto .
No. 485 Table .\mdash ; Ditto .
Greens , not Classifiable by Yellow and Green Grandparents .
( See p. 64 ) 77 of F. , from Pure Yellous and Extracted Greens Table \mdash ; Particulars of Families from Control made in 1906 78 Table .\mdash ; Particulars of Families from Crosses made in 1907 between the Pure Yellow pes used in the Experiment and ' ' a Pure Green Type 79 of Control Crosses ( Tabl es and VIII ) 79 * See Pedigree on p. 68 .
See Pedigree A on p. 68 .
Mr. Darbishire .
of the [ Dec. 7 , Table Mati , between Pure Yellows and Extracted Greens in ( See pp. 61\mdash ; 65 ) .
Number oross o * See p. 64 .
NoTlt.\mdash ; The association of crosses such as 129 tlnd 130 ) by a horizontal bracket indicates that the two pollinated were in flowers on the pcduncle .
1908 .
] Theory of A cestjral Contributions in Heredity .
Table II.\mdash ; Matings between Pure yellows and Pure Greens .
( See p. 70 .
) * See note on p. 64 .
significations of the numbers indicating the parents in the 1907 crosses be found on p. 63 .
Ihe ing are the parents of the 1906 crosses ( the first three on the list ) : \mdash ; Express\ldquo ; ( green round ) ; 329Laxton 's " " \ldquo ; ( green 11 rinkled ) ; 404 is the 1906 sowing of the yellow round type appears as 492 and 493 in the 1907 crosses see p. 63 ) .
Details of Families , from Crosses in Table I , classifiable by Yellow and Green Grandparents .
Table III.\mdash ; Particulars of Families from Crosses made with Extracted Green No. Mr. Darbishire .
Experimental Estimation of the [ Dec. 7 , Table III\mdash ; continued .
* A bra 1908 .
] Theory of Ancestral ibutions in Heredity .
Table \mdash ; Particulars of Families from Crosses made with Extracted Green No. 484 .
Mr. Darbishire .
Experimental Estimation of the [ Dec. 7 , Table ticulars of F2 Families from Crosses made with Extracted Green No. 485 .
908 .
] Theory of Ancestral Contributions in Table \mdash ; Particulars of F2 Families , and Extracted Greens , not .
By an ccident the two families bracketed were recorded NoTIl .
glance at Tables III to VI ( Experimental ) on the on hand , and at VII and VIII ( Control on the olher is , alone , suliicient to reveal an enormous difference in the average size of the family , i.e. , in the average number of seeds on a plant , in two groups .
rlhe superiority of former group is due to the fact that the seeds which rise to the recorded in it were sown 9 inches apart , that the plot on which the plants grew dug two spits deep , a heavy dressing of stable manure being thrown on to the top of the spit ; the plot on which the Control families ( those recorded in Tables and VIII ) only dug one spit deep and received no manure , except a dressing of superphosphate of lime alldsteall ) bone-fiour which was also given to the other plot .
I evidence , as yet unpublished , that the proportion of yellow and grcen seeds is not affected by the nutrition of the plant .
Mr. Darbishire .
Experimental Estimation of the [ Dec. 7 , Summary of F2 Families from Crosses between Pure Yellows and Extracted ( F ) Greens .
Percentage of green Actual devialion Probable Error of percentage Table \mdash ; Particulars of F2 Families from Control Crosses made in 1906 .
NOTR.\mdash ; For details of parentage , see Table II .
908 .
] Theory of Ancestral Contributions in Heredity .
Table VIII.\mdash ; Particulars of F2 milies from Control Crosses between the Pure Yellow Types used in the Experiment a Pure Green ( Round ) Type .
NOTE.\mdash ; For details of parentage , see Summary of F2 Families from Control Crosses .
Percent of grecn 25.77 Actual tion Probable Error of percentage

