226 Mr. G- .
J. Burch .
On the Spectroscopic Examination We are much indebted to Mr. Floyer for the great pains he has taken to collect , in Nubia , the necessary material for this investigation , and also to Sir W. T. Thiselton-Dyer for having grown the plant at Kew , from seed obtained from Egypt .
" On the Spectroscopic Examination of Colour produced by Simultaneous Contrast .
" By George J. Burch , M.A. , Reading College , Reading .
Communicated by Francis Gotch , F.R.S. , Professor of Physiology , University of Oxford .
Received June 12 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
In a previous communication I have described some methods of using the spectroscope to analyse sensations of successive contrast .
In those experiments the eye , after having been fatigued by monochromatic\#151 ; preferably spectral\#151 ; light , is exposed to a second stimulus , consisting also of spectral light , exciting one or more colour-sensations which may or may not include that fatigued by the primary sensation .
The question naturally arises , whether the spectroscopic method might not be applied to problems of simultaneous contrast .
With this view I made a number of experiments with the Marlborough spectroscope during the summer of 1897 , of which the following may be mentioned .
A piece of thin cover-glass was fixed in front of the eye-piece at an angle of 45 ' with the optic axis , so as to reflect 1 into the field of view a small complete spectrum furnished by a 31-inch direct-vision spectroscope .
In order that this might be visible against the bright field of the larger spectroscope , a glass disc , with an !
opaque spot of the required size painted on it , was inserted in the eye-piece close to the diaphragm .
With this arrangement it was easy to see the effect of contrast upon the smaller spectrum , but the lack of a comparison spectrum made the experiment far less striking than I had anticipated .
Recently a device has occurred to me by which this difficulty may \ be got over , namely , the production of simultaneous contrast by dif- i ferent colours in the two eyes .
This method is employed in the well-known experiment by Hearing , | to show that the apparent alteration of colours by contrast is not due !
to an error of judgment , but to some real effect produced in the eye \ itself .
An ordinary stereoscope is very convenient for this purpose , a square 1 of red glass being inserted on one side of the central partition and a i square of blue glass on the other .
A small black wafer is then fixed 1 at the centre of each glass , with a white wafer close to the left side of J the one on the right-hand glass , and another on the right side of that j of Colour produced by S Contrast .
227 on the left-hand glass .
The black wafers being the only spots common to both fields are easily fixed binocularly , and the white wafers , each seen with a different , eye against a different colour , appear on either side of the combined black spots .
Under these circumstances , although the blue and red fields combine more or less to produce a purple sensation , each white spot retains the contrast colour due to that constituent of the coloured background which alone affects the eye in which its image is formed .
It was only necessary to find some method of substituting for the white spots two small spectra in order to demonstrate the cause of the greenish-blue appearance of the white spot on the red glass , and of the orange hue of the white spot on the blue glass .
To do this , I place over each eye-lens one of Thorp 's replicas of Rowland 's gratings having 15,000 lines to the inch .
Two slits are held in a frame in front of the aperture by which light is usually admitted when using the stereoscope for opaque photographs .
The spectra of the first order of these slits appear in the middle of the two glasses .
In order to prevent direct admixture of the colours of each spectrum with those of the opposite backgrounds , two opaque squares of black material are cemented to each of the- coloured glasses , so shaped as to appear of the exact size and position of the spectra .
On looking through the stereoscope , two spectra are seen side by side on a field , the colour of which continually oscillates from red through purplish-grey to blue .
That connected with the red glass shows little or no red , but a splendid green and an equally splendid violet ; while that belonging to the blue glass has the red well developed , the green pale and dingy , and the blue almost absent .
The effect of varying the nature of the blue screen is very instructive .
With cobalt glass the red is not very bright , owing probably to the transmission of some red rays by the cobalt glass , but the addition of a film stained with Prussian blue , by which these rays are absorbed , greatly improves the red .
On the other hand , a pale yellow film which cuts off the violet causes the violet of the spectrum on the blue ground to stand out brightly , while a purple film brings out the green , which , owing to the green light transmitted by ordinary cobalt glass , is generally a good deal enfeebled .
In each case the contrast of the two spectra seen by different eyes is so well marked that the experiment seems likely to be of service in teaching .
It should not , however , be forgotten that the conditions are not quite so simple as in the ordinary production of artificial colour blindness , and that the results are also somewhat more complex .
Hering 's contention , that contrast phenomena originate in the eye rather than in the mind , is substantiated , but the complementary colour to red is shown to consist not of one simple colour-sensation but of two at least , namely , green and violet , and in my own case of blue also .
Against a magenta background the complementary colour Prof. F. D. Adams and Dr. J. T. Mcolson .
is seen to be spectral green .
But in this case the physical stimulus is complex .
On adding to the magenta a yellow glass , to cut out the violet , or using candle light , the violet reappears in the complementary spectrum , while if a blue glass is added instead , the violet vanishes , and red stands out brightly in the spectrum .
It may be thus shown that the colour which has green , for its complementary is not spectroscopically simple , and since the spectral elements of it have each a different and independent effect upon the spectrum of the complementary colour , I conclude that the green sensation has no special connection with the red , or indeed with any single colour sensation .
It would , of course , be easy to arrange the apparatus so as to use pure spectral colours for the backgrounds , but the phenomena are sufficiently distinct for ordinary purposes with coloured glasses .
A portion of the apparatus used has been paid for out of the sum of \#163 ; 10 allotted to me by the Royal Society from the Government Grant .
" An Experimental Investigation into the Flow of Marble .
" By Fkank D. Adams , M.Sc .
, Ph. D. , Professor of Geology in McGill University , Montreal , and John T. Nicolson , D.Sc .
, M.Inst .
C.E. , Head of the Engineering Department , Municipal Technical School , Manchester .
Communicated by Professor H. L. CALLENDAE , F.R.S. Received June 12 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) That rocks , under the conditions to which they are subjected in certain parts of the earth 's crust , become bent and twisted in the most complicated manner is a fact which was recognised by the earliest geologists , and it needs but a glance at any of the accurate sections of contorted regions of the earth 's crust which have been prepared in more recent years to show that there is often a transfer or " flow of j material from one place to another in the folds .
The manner in which ?
this contortion , with its concomitant " flowing , " has taken place is , how-^ ever , a matter concerning which there has been much discussion , and a wide divergence of opinion .
Some authorities have considered it to be j a purely mechanical process , while others have looked upon solution j and redeposition as playing a necessary role in all such movements , j The problem is one on which it would appear that much light might be thrown by experimental investigation .
If movements can be induced in rocks under known conditions , with the reproduction of the 1 structures found in deformed rocks in nature , much might be learned i concerning not only the character of the movements , but also con- j

