1877 .
] On Molecular Changes in Iron ana Steel .
127 Goubareff ( D. ) Renovation Sociale basee sir les lois de la Nature .
8vo .
Paris 1876 .
The Author .
Mensbrugghe ( G. van der ) Application de la Thermodynamique a l'etude des Variations d'energie potentielle des surfaces liquides .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1876 .
The Author .
Wilson ( Erasmus ) , E.R.S. Lectures on Dermatology , delivered in the Royal College of Surgeons in 1871-73 , 1874-75 .
2 vols .
8vo .
London 1873-75 .
The Author .
April 12 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On certain Molecular Changes which occur in Iron and Steel during the separate acts of Heating and Cooling .
" By Professor Norris , M.D. , Queen 's College , Birmingham .
Communicated by G. Gore , F.R.S. Received August 15 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) In the course of certain researches in Physiological Physics , in which the author of this paper has been for some time past engaged , it became necessary , with a view to learn how far it bore upon the subject in hand , to inquire into the nature of a peculiar fact which was observed by his friend Mr. Gore , and published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society , January 28th , 1869 , under the title of " A Momentary Molecular Change in Iron Wire .
" In this communication it was shown that if a strained iron wire were heated to redness by a voltaic current or other means , on being allowed to cool , the contraction of cooling was at a certain point , and for a limited period , arrested by an action of elongation .
" With wires of iron 0*65 millim. thick ( No. 23 ) and 21*5 centime , long , strained to the extent of ten ounces or more , and heated to full redness , the phenomenon was clearly developed .
For example , the needle of the instrument went with regularity to 18*5 of index-plate ; the current was then stopped ; the needle instantly retreated to 17'75 , then as quickly advanced to 19*75 , and then went slowly and regularly back , but not to zero .
After shutting off the source of heat , the wire contracted 0*75 millim. , and then expanded 2 millims. ; so that it returned 1*25 millim. VOL. XXVI .
K 128 Prof. Norris on Molecular Changes in Iron [ Apr. 12 , beyond the original point of heating , and then resumed its course towards zero , which it failed to reach .
The length of the kick , plus the amount of stretch , occasioned during the occurrence by the strain was therefore 2 millims. If the temperature of the wire was not sufficiently high , or the strain upon the wire not enough , the needle went directly back without exhibiting the momentary forward movement .
The temperature and strain required to be sufficient to actually stretch the wire somewhat at the higher temperature .
A higher temperature with a less degree of strain , or a greater degree of strain with a somewhat lower temperature , did not develop the phenomenon .
The wire was found to be permanently elongated on cooling .
" Mr. Gore further observes:\#151 ; " The molecular change evidently includes a diminution of cohesion at a particular temperature during the process of cooling ; and it is interesting to notice that at the same temperature during the heating-process no such loss of cohesion ( nor any increase of cohesion ) takes place ; a certain temperature and strain are therefore not alone sufficient to produce it ; the condition of cooling must also be included .
The phenomena which occur during cooling are not the exact converse of those which take place during heating .
" The subject was subsequently taken up by Professor Barrett , of Dublin , who , in a paper to the ' Philosophical Magazine ' in 1873 ( vol. xlvi .
p. 472 ) , showed , by the use of the mirror , that during the heating of the wire a converse action to that which takes place during cooling occurs .
He says:\#151 ; " During the heating of the wire a slight and momentary retrogression of the beam was noticed at the temperature corresponding to the powerful jerk that occurred on cooling .
" The temperature at which the momentary jerk occurs seems to be lower in thick wires than in thin ones .
The momentary , as closely as can be judged , takes place at the same temperature at which the elongation takes place on cooling .
Releasing the tension of the spring , the forward motion on cooling is , as might be expected , much lessened , whilst the jerk back is scarcely affected .
Increasing the tension of the spring , the forward jerk is correspondingly increased , and the backward jerk diminishes and can be made to disappear .
Without the spring , an iron wire can be seen by the naked eye to undergo a momentary contraction during heating , and a momentary and more palpable elongation during cooling .
" All kinds of iron do not exhibit this behaviour ; and some show it in a more or less marked degree .
I have not been able to detect any change in certain specimens of good soft iron wire ; but in hard iron wire , and notably in steel wire , it is very apparent .
" The wire , moreover , requires to be raised to a very high temperature before the jerk is seen on cooling .
I have not observed the momentary elongation on cooling when the wire has only been heated to a point just beyond that at which it would otherwise occur .
and Steel during Heating and .
1877 .
] " During the cooling of the wire it was found that just as it reached a very dull red heat , a sudden accession of temperature occurred , so that it glowed once more with a bright red heat .
It was found that the reheating of the wire occurred simultaneously with the momentary elongation .
" In studying these phenomena it seemed , in the first place , desirable to construct apparatus of much greater delicacy and heating-power than that used by either of the previous observers , so that , if possible , the shortening during heating could be shown with the same facility as the elongation during cooling . .
This has been achieved by means of the instrument a sketch of which is given with the Charts .
The main idea has been to construct an apparatus which would exhibit the phenomena readily without the use of mirrors or batteries , and that would admit of experiments being performed either with or without strain .
This latter has been accomplished by placing the wire vertically , so as to get rid of all drooping when heated .
With apparatus thus constructed , we found no difficulty in displaying the phenomena in the most perfect manner , the-heating-kick not unfrequently being three or four centimetres in length , and the cooling-kick sometimes as much as 13 centimetres .
It is necessary to state in limine that strain plays no part in the production of the phenomena of the kicks or jerks .
Its only effect is to cause a very small influence in the cooling ( which might have been overlooked with certain kinds of apparatus ) to be observed .
It is obvious that when a wire has a tendency to expand , the presence of weight or tension , by assisting to overcome the inertia of the apparatus , would favour the exhibition of the act ; but it is equally clear that it would operate in an opposite manner when the tendency was to contract , as in the heating ; and therefore , although it would favour the cooling , it would be prejudicial to the heating-kick .
Strain , therefore , being unessential to the phenomenon , and , by the introduction of false quantities , prejudicial to the quantitative comparison of the several effects , it has been carefully avoided in these experiments , sufficient weight alone being used to keep the thread tense upon the pulley , and never in any case to elongate the particular wire under use , even when maintained for some time at its highest temperature .
It is desirable that these facts should be borne in mind ; for no sooner do we enter upon this research with more delicate and reliable apparatus , than we find that the kicks are but a small part of the phenomena we are called upon to observe and explain .
We ascertain at the very outset that iron and steel wire presents itself to our examination under very different conditions , which demand a rigid analysis .
Thus , apart from its inherent quality , it may come to us for experiment:\#151 ; ( a ) In its usual commercial state .
( b ) After having been subjected to various degrees of annealing .
( c ) In various degrees of induced hardness .
130 Prof. Norris on Molecular Changes in Iron [ Apr. 12 , It is proposed to consider , in the first place , the phenomena presented by the ordinary steel wire of commerce , when first subjected to the influence of heat .
During the heating of such wires , we notice that a first kick occurs at a point varying on the scale from 29 ' to 33 ' , and that the wire subsequently proceeds to a high expansion , which may be represented on the scale by the figures 66 ' , 52| ' , 55 ' , 50| ' , and so forth , according to the quality and state of the wire .
In the act of cooling a kick commences at points varying from 311 ' to 22 ' , and terminates at points varying from 33 ' to 28 ' , when the finger proceeds on towards zero , but invariably falls short of reaching it by amounts varying from | ' to 5| ' ( centimetres ) .
[ Vide fig. 1 .
] In the next experiment with these wires a much altered state of things is found to obtain .
Thus the first kick is lowered a little in position , increased in range ; the expansion of the wire is materially diminished , being now represented by such figures as 58^ ' , 43\#163 ; ' , 45| ' , 50f- ' , c. respectively .
In the cooling the second kick is separated more from the first , being put back in the direction of zero .
It will also be seen that in 877 .
] and Steel during Heating and Cooling .
131 'ooling the finger passes beyond zero , indicating now that the wire is permanently shortened , whereas in the primary heating it was 'Elongated . .
A comparison of these two series of experiments will show us that , luring the heating of these wires , there is going on at the same time a whole series of phenomena , some of which , although different in nature , are alike as to result , while others are different both as to nature and result .
We have , in the first place , the ordinary expansion , which we will designate the " dynamical expansion .
" In the primary heating an amount of expansion will be seen to occur which has no equivalent in the dynamical contraction of cooling .
The secondary heatings reveal to us the existence of a contraction , which is also excited during the , and the action of which is to limit the dynamical expansion previously referred to .
That it mashs a portion of the dynamical expansion is rendered obvious by the fact that , in cooling , the finger moves beyond zero , showing that the wire has contracted more in cooling than it expandedin heating .
In addition to this , we have also the phenomena of the kicks themselves ; and these may be described as consisting of a temporary contrac-tion and expansion .
During the heating of a wire , when in its commercial state , there is one expansive and two contractive tendencies exerting their powers at one and the same time ; and conversely , in the act of cooling , there is one contractive and two expansive influences at work , viz. : ordinary cooling con- traction ; an expansion which is the opposite of the temporary contraction of heating\#151 ; the cooling-lciclc ; and an expansion which is the opposite in nature , but not necessarily in amount , of the contraction of heating crystalline expansion .
In every case the interpretation of the general result depends upon the accurate estimate of the extent to which these interacting forces have modified each other 's effects .
Thus during the heating we have a temporary and a permanent contraction , assisting each other to oppose the dynamical expansion .
In cooling , on the other hand , we have two expansions , one of which is temporary and the other permanent , opposing the dynamical contraction of cooling .
It will be desirable to carefully define the nature of these respective influences , and the terms which will be used to distinguish them in this research .
I. Dynamical Expansion.\#151 ; This term will be used to distinguish the ordinary dilatation produced in bodies generally , by raising them from a given temperature to a higher one , and which is exactly counterbalanced by contraction when the original temperature is regained .
It is proposed to call this kind of contraction 66 the dynamical contraction .
II .
Contraction of Heating.\#151 ; In the diagrams representing second heatings [ vide fig. 2 ] we get the first inkling of the existence of a contractive or shortening influence excited by heat simultaneously with the 132 On Molecular Changes in Iron and Steel .
[ Apr. 12 , expansion .
In the diagrams of annealed and hardened wire [ figs. 3 , 4,5 ] this influence becomes more obvious still .
In these cases it is seen to greatly mash the dynamical expansion .
This kind of contraction may be also displayed by protracted heating of the wire , when it exhibits itself at the end of the expansion as a slow , continuous contraction of considerable extent [ vide fig. 5 ] .
III .
Temporary Contraction.\#151 ; This term is applied to the cooling influence which is excited in the wire during heating , and which , at a certain point , balances the expansion ; for heat being rendered latent at the same rate as it is being absorbed , produces a stop ( which indicates that the expansion is arrested and balanced ) or a kick ( which implies an absolute cooling of the wire from excess of latency ) .
The diminution of the rate of expansion , or the actual shortening produced by this kind of contraction , is of a temporary character , and must not be confounded with the heat-contraction which it accompanies .
These , then , are the phenomena of heating:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Dynamical expansion ; ( 2 ) Permanent or heat contraction ; ( 3 ) Temporary contraction ( heating-kicks ) ; ( 4 ) Stretching ; and ( 5 ) The influence of oxide .
We have now to consider what influences are present during the cooling:\#151 ; I. Dynamical Contraction.\#151 ; The opposite of dynamical expansion .
II .
Permanent Expansion of cooling.-\#151 ; ( Crystalline expansion .
) Ill , Temporary Expansion.\#151 ; The thermal expansion due to the reglowing of the wire during cooling .
This is the proximate cause of the stops and kicks which occur in cooling .
It is evanescent as an opposing force , and must not be confounded with the permanent or crystalline expansion of cooling , of which it is simply the effect .
We have , then , in cooling\#151 ; ( 1 ) Dynamical contraction ; ( 2 ) Permanent expansion of cooling j ( 3 ) Temporary expansion ( cooling-kicks ) ; and to these may be added ( 4 ) Influence of oxide .
An exhaustive study of these various conditions has led to the elucidation of the nature of hardening , softening , tempering , annealing , \amp ; c. of iron and steel , and has further shown that numerical values may be assigned to these states .
In brief , the research establishes 1 .
The existence in steel , and in iron containing carbon , of a contraction or shortening which is excited by heat , and which proceeds simul1877 .
] On the Growth and Variability of Madreporaria .
133 aneously with the dynamical expansion and masks its true amount .
This s divisible into high and low temperature contraction .
[ Compare figs. l\lt ; 2 .
The presence of a cooling expansion or crystallization , which .omes in during the dynamical contraction and masks its true amount .
3 .
These effects , due to crystallization and decrystallization , are the causes of the so-called kicks , or temporary contractions and expansions , which occur during the heating and cooling of the steel .
4 .
That the low-temperature contraction and cooling expansion are due fco decrystallization and crystallization which occur during the acts of beating and cooling , while the kicks themselves are simply the thermal effects associated with these changes , and are proportionate to their extent .
5 .
That protracted annealing ( that is , extremely slow cooling ) brings about molecular separation of the carbon and iron ; and steel in such a state contracts greatly when high temperatures are reached , producing the contraction returns seen at the end of the heating , and which are due to the condensation produced by the recombination of the carbon and iron .
Steels in this state are less susceptible to cooling-expansion ( crystallization ) , and therefore to low-temperature contraction on subsequent heating .
[ Vide fig. 5 .
] EXPLANATION OF THE WOODCUT .
Fig. 1 .
Commercial steel wire .
First heating .
Fig. 2 .
Do .
do .
Second heating .
Fig. 3 .
Air-hardened wire .
Fig. 4 .
Water-hardened wire .
Fig. 5 .
Annealed steel wire .
High-temperature contraction .
Contraction returns .
N.B.\#151 ; In each figure the upper curve refers to the heating- , the lower to the cooling-effect .
II .
" On the Rapidity of Growth and Variability of some Madreporaria on an Atlantic Cable , with remarks upon the rate of accumulation of Foraminiferal Deposits/ ' By Prof. P. Martin Duncan , F.R.S. , Pres. Geol .
Soc. Received March 15 , 1877 .
A telegraph-cable was laid off the north-west of Spain in 1870 , and a portion of it was recovered in 1876 , in long .
9 ' 4 ' W. and lat. 44 ' 6 N. The depth from which the recovered portion came was from 522 to 550 fathoms ; the ground was conglomeratic , and there was a deposit there of sticky foraminiferal mud .
Much coral growth had occurred on the cable , and when it was fished up some living and dead forms , together with Echini , Pectens , and mud , came up from off the surrounding sea-floor .
The growth on the cable consisted of numerous individuals of -

