1883 .
] On Protoplasm through the Walls of Vegetable Cells .
163 H " Pelvic Characters of Tliylacoleo carnifexP By Professor Owen , C.B. , F.R.S. , Director of the Natural History Department , British Museum .
Received April 13 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the author selects from a series of fossils transmitted from Australia since the communication of the 1st February , 1883 , the pelvis of a mature Thylacoleo , and gives results of a comparison .of it with that of Macropus major , Felis Leo , and Dasyurus ursinus , incidentally referring to pelvic characters of the Wombat , the Koala , ; and the Phalangers .
The results are that the few correspondences with the Kangaroos relate exclusively to a common marsupial nature ; to these , in the Dasyurines , are added other resemblances not found , save in Carnivorous Marsupials ; and , finally , prominent characters are shown in which Thylacoleo exclusively repeats those presented by the pelvis of Felis Leo .
III .
" On the Continuity of the Protoplasm through the Walls of Vegetable Cells .
" By Walter Gardiner , B.A. , late Scholar of Clare College , Cambridge .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton-Dyer , C.M.G. , F.R.S. Received April 16 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) After quoting a passage from Professor Sachs ' " Vorlesungen fiber Pflanzen-Physiologie , " " every plant however highly organised is fundamentally a protoplasmic body forming a connected whole , which , as it grows on , is externally clothed by a cell membrane and internally traversed by innumerable transverse and longitudinal walls , ' the author suggests that any observations which demonstrate an actual continuity in organs of large extent must be of interest , as tending to show the truth of Sachs ' statement in a sense somewhat more literal than his own .
At the time that the above remarks were written , the instances of the existence of any protoplasmic continuity between adjacent cells were but few , being limited to sieve tubes and to Tangl 's results with regard to the endosperm cells of Strychnos , Phoenix , and Areca .
Then came the author 's investigations upon the pulvini of Mimosa , Robinia , and Amicia , and subsequently to them , but previous to the present communication , appeared an important paper by Russow , in which he had proved that in the bast parenchyma cells and the phloem ray cells of numerous plants , e.g. , Populus ,

