III .
" On the Existence of Glycogen in the Tissues of certain Entozoa .
" By MICHAEL FOSTER , M.B. Communicated by Professor HUXLEY .
Received November 4 , 1865 .
Although glycogen has been found by various observers in the tissues of many of the Invertebrata , no one , as far as I know , has noticed the very remarkable amount which may be obtained from some of the Entozoa .
I first came across this fact while working upon a tape-worm ; unfortunately I neglected to determine the quantity of glycogen I obtained , and have not since had an opportunity of repeating the observation .
The following remarks apply only to the round worm ( zscaris lumbricoides ?
) which dwells in the intestines of the common pig .
543 1865 .
] By mincing and boiling in water , with a drop of dilute acetic acid , one of these animals , a decoction is obtained which remains milky-looking and opalescent after several filtrations , and therefore at once suggests the idea of glycogen .
This milky fluid strikes a deep port-wine red with iodine , the colour disappearing on the application of heat , and reappearing on cooling , and gives no reduction when boiled with the alkaline coppersolution .
When treated with saliva at 35 ?
C. the opalescence disappears , leaving a fluid either perfectly clear or exhibiting only a few flakes or a slight cloudy deposit ( of some albuminoid material ) , but containing much sugar , as may be shown both by the copper and fermentation test .
If the original milky fluid be thrown into spirit , an abundant white flaky precipitate is thrown down , consisting partly of some albuminoid substance , but chiefly of a substance giving all the above reactions of glycogen .
If the fluid be thrown into glacial acetic acid , a white flaky precipitate is thrown down consisting of nearly pure glycogen .
The presence of glycogen may also be shown by employing the alcoholic solution of potash .
From these facts we may infer that glycogen , and not dextrine merely , does exist in the bodies of these animals .
In no case have I found this glycogen to be accompanied by anything more than a mere doubtful trace of sugar-that is to say , a trace of some substance giving a doubtful reduction of the copper-solution , and that by no means always .
Hence , seeing how difficult it is to obtain glycogen in so pure a state that its quantity may be estimated directly by weighing , I have contented myself with determining the amtount present in these animals by exposing a decoction to the influence of saliva until all traces of glycogpen were lost , and then estimating by the copper process the amount of sugar produced .
In this way I obtained from two ascarides weighing together , when taken fresh from the pig and merely wiped , 10-2 grms. , and from three weighing together 10 grms. , just 2-2 per cent. of sugar ( on the wet weight ) in each case .
When this amount is compared with that produced by the mammalian liver alone , it will be seen that it really is , comparatively speaking , excessive .
For the sake of comparing the Ascaris with other invertebrata , I may say that in a caterpillar weighing about 6 grms. I obtained a hardly appreciable quantity of glycogen , which was contained partly in the muscular parietes , and partly in the so-called " epiploon " or " hepatic parenchyma .
" The quantity of glycogen that I obtained from a handful of common maggots was also hardly appreciable .
In the Ascaris little or no glycogen is to be found in the intestine , a small quantity in the generative apparatus , and a very considerable quantity in the spongy visceral tissue ; by far the largest amount exists in the firmer muscular parietes .
I failed to detect with iodine any distinct histological localization .
It seems singular that an animal , living in the midst of a fluid one of whose chief functions is to change starch into sugar , should thus be found amassing glycogen within its own body .
I have satisfied myself , however , 544 [ Dec. 7 , that there is no sugar-forming ferment present in the tissues of the Ascaris .
Portions of the tissues may be kept exposed to a temperature of 35 ?
C. for many hours without any appreciable loss of glycogen or advent of sugar .
The whole animal , too , may be kept for days without any change of its glycogen being observed .
I also failed to extract from the tissues any ferment capable of acting upon starch .
The intestine alone seemed to have any power of the kind , and that but in the very feeblest degree .
This failure in the production of sugar is not due to the presence of any substance antagonistic to the action of a sugar-forming ferment ; for the addition of a small quantity of saliva to even the unboiled tissues very speedily brings about the conversion of the glycogen into sugar .
We may infer therefore that , if the animal swallows the intestinal juices in which it lives , the sugar-forming ferment contained therein either does not pass through its intestinal wall into the visceral cavity , or , if it does pass , is at once destroyed .
It is evident that the formation of glycogen in the Ascaris takes place under conditions very different from those under which glycogen is deposited in the mammalian liver , since in the latter case there is present a powerful sugar-forming ferment belonging , as we have reason to believe , to the liver-substance itself , and not merely to the blood passing through the organ .
The possible use of this glycogen is a matter of interest .
Intestinal worms , inasmuch as they are animals and live , must needs consume oxygen .
The amount of that gas they find in the intestinal juices , however , is very small ; and , having a constant temperature secured to them by warmth external to themselves , they are the very last of creatures to need what has been called " respiratory or calorifacient material .
" Whatever be the use of sugar , starch , or glycogen in the mammalian body , no " respiratory " use can be safely suggested for the large amount of glycogen occurring in the Ascaris .
Its abundance in the muscular parietes might suggest that it was material on its way to become muscle .
If so , since the animals I studied were adults and ova-producing , the analogy of their glycogen would be , not with the glycogen of the muscles of the early mammalian embryo , but with the glycogen ( or dextrine ) occurring in smaller quantities in the full-grown muscles ( unless one were to push an idea , and say that the tissues of the lower animals were chemically homologous with the embryonic tissues of the higher ones ) .
It might be thought to be immature chitin ; but why should it exist in such quantities ?
and why is there so little in the caterpillar and the maggot ?
In the Tmenia the glycogen could hardly be thought to have a muscular future .
There it might be considered to be stored up for the development of the ova .
This idea is at first sight contradicted , as far as the Ascaris is concerned ; by the fact that very little glycogen can be obtained from the generative apparatus of that animal .
But is it not possible that , though stored up elsewhere , it may really be intended for the ova and embryos after all ?
The analogy between the Ascaris , with its 1865 .
] 545 glycogen , and a plant with its blanched starch-storing tissues , is striking in many ways .
May not " migration , " which plays so important a part in vegetable physiology , occur in the animal economy in reference to other substances besides fat

