IX .
O2 the Gizards of BGxzing Brds .
By Everard fHome , Esq. F. R.S. Read Aril , i81o .
IN the course of my enquiries into the various modes in which the food in different animals is prepared for digestion , many circumstances have been met with , which tend to show , .
that grass is the substance of all others , on which animals feed , that requires the most preparation ; and that ruminating animals are fitted by nature in an eminent degree , for extracting the greatest possible quantity of nourishment from this species of food .
If we examine the means employed by quadrupeds of this description , it will appear , that the grass in the first instance is broken short off from the ground and swallowed ; then macerated with the mass that had previously undergone some preparation in the first stomach , and afterwards a part of the whole of this mixture , before it is digested , is brought back into the mouth , there masticated in a particular manner ; not as in the elephant and horse , or those nearest allied to them , but by being obliquely cut into smaller portions and then mixed up with the saliva into pellets , which are conveyed through the third stomach into the fourth , for the purpose of digestion .
This is a mode of preparation peculiar to ruminants , , no other quadruped being provided with all the same means .
Finding so marked a peculiarity in all the organs connected with digestion , in those animals who naturally live wholly on grass , I was led to consider that as some birds graze , there must in them be peculiarities in the form of their gizzards , to fit them for digesting this particular kind of food , by which they may readily be distinguished from the gizzards of other birds .
With this view , I examined the gizzards of the goose andi swan , who are both in the habit of grazing , ( thougih geesemore constantly so , ) and compared their structure with that of the turkey , a bird nearly of the same size , whose food is of a different kindO TIo make this comparison more correct and ' satisfactory , a ; goose 's and a turkey 's gizzard were moderately filled with .
plaister of Paris , and then boiled ; by this means the cavity was kept open , and the course of the muscular fibres very readily traced .
In the turkey , the external surface was first attentively examined , viewing that side which is anterior in the living ; bird , and on which the two muscles .
and ' middle tendon , aremost distinct , there being .
no other part to obstruct the ' view ; while on the opposite side there is the opening of thepylorus , and the bag formedby the lower portion of thegizzard beyond the circumference of the muscles .
In this view , the muscle on the left side is distinctly largerthan that on the right , as will be seen in the annexed drawing .
This appears on reflection to be a great advantage in producing the necessary motion ; for if the two muscles were of ' equal strength , they must keep up a greater degree of exer , tion than is necessary ; while in the-present case , the principal .
effect is produced by the left side , and a smaller force is usedby the right , to bring the parts back agiin .
185 The muscles when dissected , are found to be composed of fasciculi of fibres , connected together by a loose cellular membrane , so as to appear like so many separate muscles lying parallel to each other .
They all arise from the anterior strong flat tendon , and are inserted into that on the posterior surface ; as they are very numerous and require a large surface of insertion , part of them , on a superficial examination , appear to be lost on the internal membrane of the gizzard .
These muscles by their alternate action produce two effects ; the one a constant friction on the contents of the cavity , the other a pressure upon them .
This last arises from the swell of the muscle inwards , which readily explains all the instances which have been given by SPALLANZANI and others , of the force of the gizzard upon substances introduced into it ; which force is found , by their experiments , always to act in an oblique direction .
The internal cavity , when opened in this distended state , is of an oval form ; the long diameter in the line of the body : its capacity nearly equal to the size of a pullet 's egg , and there are , laterally , ridges in the horny coat , in the long direction of the oval .
When the horny coat is examined in its internal structure , the fibres of which it is formed , are not found in a direction perpendicular to the ligamentous substance behind it , but in the upper portion of the cavity they have a direction obliquely downwards , and in the lower portion obliquely upwards .
From this form of cavity it is evident , that no part of the sides are ever intended to be brought in contact ; and that the food is triturated by being mixed with hard bodies , and acted on by the powerful muscles which form the gizzard..,86 In the goose , the gizzard differs very much in its external form , from that of the turkey ; being oval in its transverse direction , and having the lateral edges very thin ; this arises from the fasciculi of fibres of both muscles being more numerous than in the turkey .
The disproportion between the left muscle and the right , is still greater than in the turkey , and when the cavity is opened it is flat , divided into two equal portions ; that on the right side convex above ; forming a projection into the cavity , and concave below , forming a hollow .
On the left side there is a corresponding surface , only that the concavity is above , answering to the convex part opposite ; and a convexity below , fitted to the opposing concavity .
The horny covering of these surfaces is very strong , much more so than in the turkey , and when the structure is examined , the direction of its fibres is oblique ; on the right ' side from above downwards , and on the left side from below upwards .
In the swan , the gizzard is altogether larger than in the goose , and more flattened at the external edge , so that the muscular fibres are shorter ; on its internal cavity the appearances are nearly the same , but there is a less strongly markedridge and concavity , and the surface of the oval portion , in , wh-ich these are met with , issmaller in size .
The substance of that part of the gizzard appears to be less dense , but thecuticular covering is thicker , and its fibrous texture more conspictous .
The direction of the fibres is exactly the same a-s in the goose .
Froin this construction of cavity it is evident , that these two corresponding lsuIrfaces are intended-to move on-one another , -zlp ~ ?
~r~L:\er~rBA ) _R~ ]BAPIaVVoPll'I , P- ?
18~V -~ O~E B1P &amp; '68 187 with little more than the food between them ; the hard substances interposed , being only of a small size , so as not to interfere with their regular correspondence with each other .
In these gizzards there is not the rotatory motion mentioned in the turkey , but a regular sliding motion , begun by the strong muscle forcing one side of the horny substance over the surface of the other ; and it is brought back by the action of the weaker .
This motion bears so great a resemblance to that of the grinding teeth of ruminating animals , in which the teeth of the under jaw slide upwards , within those of the upper , pressing the food between them , and fitting it by this peculiar kind of trituration for being digested ; that it is fair to conclude , it is for the same purpose , more especially , when we only find it in those birds that graze .
The gizzard of the goose is evidently fitted for a harsher kind of grass than that of the swan , and we find that the goose prefers the common grass of the fields , while the swan is partial to the soft weed found in ponds and rivers , and only grazes occasionally .
The bill of the goose breaks off the grass short from the ground , nearly in the same manner as the fore teeth of ruminants .
In like manner as ruminants have only teeth in the under jaw , so has the goose small pointed cuticular teeth in the lower portion of the bill , which , when the bill is closed , fit into grooves in the upper one , so that the grass enclosed in the space between the teeth and grooves , is nipped off .
There is a swell in the lower part of the esophagus in these birds , which is peculiar to them : this answers the purpose of a reservoir , in which the grass is retained , macerated , -188 and mixed with the secretions poured out by the glandular surfaces surrounding it , in this respect corresponding to the first and second stomach of ruminating animals , in which the grass is prepared for mastication .
These facts , as they account for the goose and swan living upon a species of food not fitted for birds in general , proves that in this class of animals , a peculiar conformation of the digestive organs is required , as well as in quadrupeds , when they are intended by nature to live entirely upon grass .
This fact being ascertained , is not without its importance in elucidating this branch of physiological inquiry .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE .
Fig. i. The gizzard of a turkey ]aid open on its anterior part , to show the form of the internal cavity , which is oval , and the grinding surfaces uniformly concave .
Fig. 2 .
The gizzard of a swan exposed in the same way ; the grinding surfaces have an oval form , but in an opposite direction to those of the turkey , and each of them is made up of a ridge and a hollow in the direction of the oval , which are adapted to those of the opposite side , the ridge of the one fitting the hollow of the other .

