IV .
" A Development of the Theory of Cyclones .
" By FRANcIS GALTON , F.R.S. Received December 25 , 1862 .
Most meteorologists are agreed that a circumscribed area of barometric depression is usually a locus of light ascending currents , and therefore of an indraught of surface winds which create a retrograde whirl ( in our hemisphere ) , because they bring to their destination a lateral impulse , partly due to the greater easterly speed of the earth 's surface whence the southern portion of the indraught took its de , parture , and partly due to the less easterly , or we may say greater westerly , speed of its northern portion .
Conversely , we ought to admit that a similar area of barometric elevation is usually a locus of dense descending currents , and therefore of a dispersion of a cold dry atmosphere , plunging from the higher regions upon the surface of the earth , which , flowing away radially on all sides , becomes at length imbued with a lateral motion due to the above-mentioned cause , though acting in a different manner and in opposite directions .
The currents necessarily travel with diminished radial speed as they widen out from their central area of dispersion , and the eastward tendency of the northern portion of the system and the westward tendency of the southern become more overpowering .
It may be presumed , on consideration of the extreme mobility of the air , that a continuous dispersion of currents would result in the yielding of the east and west winds , which had no tangential movement of their own , to the curvature of the others , and that we should witness a disposition of currents like those in the annexed diagram , which is copied from an actual Fig. 1 .
occurrence on December 2 , 1861 .
The appearance is that of a centre of calms whence currents flow in radial lines , rapidly curving to the right and ( forming a sort of " anticyclone .
" Dove 's law of gyration is so fertile in result , that -I it accounts for the same direct rotation of a cold Scale 1000 miles .
wind by a wholly different process .
As an antithesis to his theory of cyclones being due to an equatorial current pressing against quiescent air , he adds ( Law of Storms ) , with a view of illustrating his position , and not of meeting cases that practically occur , polar cyclones , " if they exist , " would have a direct rotation It is not necessary to allude further to his well-known theory-it is sufficient to show that two separate causes cooperate in producing a rotation or curvature of currents such as I have described .
I have not the slightest doubt that a strong curvature of atmospheric cur .
rents to the right does frequently exist , owing to the descent of cold air from above ; for in lately charting the weather of Europe thrice daily during a month , I found it more or less present on from fifty to sixty occasions .
Its existence is consonant to what we should expect .
It is hardly possible to conceive masses of air rotating in a retrograde sense in close proximity , as cyclonogists suppose , without an intermediate area of direct rotation , which would , to use a mechanical simile , be in gear with both of them , and make the movements of the entire system correlative and harmonious .
The result I have thus far arrived at , and which I should look for hereafter , is that whenever the barometer shows circumscribed areas of marked elevation and depression at distances not exceeding 1500 miles apart , a line drawn from Fig. 2 .
the locus of highest to that of lowest barometer would be cut P , by parallel wind-currents at an I/ " angle of about 45 ?
, in the way / &gt; \\\ shown in the diagram.\ .
KU\ / I doubt if it be of advantage ' , , to investigate the changes of High barom .
Low barom .
wind produced by a system of ( dispersion ) .
( indraught ) .
indraught and dispersion passing over any locality , because the barometrical sections vary so rapidly as to make the incoming portion unsymmetrical with that which has already passed over .

