XIX .
" Further Inquiries concerning the Laws and Operation of Electrical Force .
" By Sir W. SNOW IHARRIS , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received June 8 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The author first endeavours to definitely express what is meant by quantity of electricity , electrical charge , and intensity .
By quantity of electricity he understands the actual amount of the unknown agency constituting electrical force , as represented by some arbitrary quantitative 'electrical ' measure .
By electrical charge he understands the quantity which can be sustainied upon a given surface under a given electrometer indication .
Electrical intensity , on the contrary , is I the electrometer indicationi ' answering to a givenl quantity uponl a givenl surface .
2 .
The experimenits of Le AMonnier in 1746 , of Cavendish in 1770 , and the papers of Volta in 1779 , are quoted .
as showing that bodies do not take up electricity in proportion to their surfaces .
According to Volta , any plane surface extended in length sustains a greater charge , -a result which this distinguished philosopher attributes to the circumstance that the electrical particles are further apart upon the elonigated surface , and consequently further without each other 's influence .
3 .
The author here endeavours to show that , in extending a surface in length , we expose it to a larger amount of iniductive action from surrounidin , g matter , by which , on the principles of the condenser , the intensity of the accumulation is dimirnished , and the charge consequently irnereased ; so that not only are we to take into account the influenice of the particles on each other , but likewise their operation upon surrounding matter .
4 .
No very satisfactory experiments seem to have been inistituted showing the relation of quanltity to surface .
The quantity upon a given surface has beeni often vaguely estimated without any regard to a constant electrometer indication or intensity .
The author thinks we can scarcely infer from the beautiful experiment of Coulomb , in consequelice of this omissionl , that the capacity of a circular plate of twice the diameter of a given sphere is twice the capacity of the sphere , and endeavours to show , in a future part of the paper ( Experiment 16 ) , that the charge of the sphere and plate are to each other not really as 1 2 , but as 1 : V2 , that is , as the square roots of the exposed surfaces ; so that we cannot accumulate twice the quantity of electricity upon the plate under the same electrometer indicationl .
5 .
On a fuLrthier investigationi of the laws of electrical charge , the quantity which any planie rectanlIgular surface cant receive unider a giveni intenlsity is found to depend not only on the surface , but also on its linear boundary extension .
Thus the linear boundary of 100 square inches of surface -under a rectangle 37-5 inches long by 2-66 inches wide , is about 80 inches ; whilst the linear boundary of the same 100 square inches of surface under a plate 10 inches square is only 40 inches .
Hence the charge of the rectangle is much greater than that of the square , although the surfaces are equal , or nearly so .
6 .
The author finds , by a rigid experimental examination of this question , that electrical charge depends upon surface and linear extension conjoirntly .
He endeavours to show that there exists in every plane surface what may be termed an electrical boundary , having an important relation to the grouping or disposition of the electrical particles in regard to each other and to surrounding matter .
This boundary , in circles or globes , is represented by their circumferences .
In plane rectangular surfaces , it is their linear extension or perimeter .
If this boundary be constant , their electrical charge ( 1 ) varies with the square root of the surface .
If the stoface be constant , the charge varies with the square root of the boundary .
If the surface and boundary both vary , the charge varies with the square root cf the surface multiplied inlto the square root of the boundary .
Thus , calling C the charge S the surface , B the boundary , and p some arbitrary constant depending on the electrical unit of charge , we have C-= p/ S.1B , which will be found , with some exceptions , a general law of electrical charge .
It follows from this formula , that if when we double the surface we also double the boundary , the charge will be also double .
In this case the charge may be said to vary with the surface , since it varies with the square root of the surface , multiplied into the square root of the boundary .
If therefore the surface and boundary both increase together , the charge will vary with the square of either quantity .
The quantity of electricity therefore which surfaces can sustain under these coniditions will be as the surface .
If 1 and 6 represent respectively the length and breadth of a plane rectangular surface , then the charge of such a suirface is expressed by p V/ 21b ( + 6 ) , which is found to agree perfectly with experiment .
We have , however , in all these cases to bear in minid the difference between electrical chary and electrical inten.sity ( 1 ) .
7 .
The electrical intensity of plane rectangular surfaces is found to vary in an inverse ratio of the boundary multiplied into the surface .
If the surface be constant , the intensity is inversely as the bounidary .
If the boundary be constant , the intensity is iniversely as the surface .
If both vary alike and together , the intensity is as the square of either quantity ; so that if when the surface be doubled the boundary be also doubled , the intensity will be inversely as the square of the surface .
The intensity of a plane rectangular surface being given , we may always deduce therefrom its electrical charge under a given greater intensity , sinice we only require to determinie the increased quantity requisite to bring the electrometer indication up to the given required intensity .
This is readily deduced , the ititensity being , by a well-established law of electrical force , as the square of the quantity .
8 .
These laws relating to charge , surfaee , intensity , &amp;c. , appily more especially to continluous surfaces taken as a whole , and not to surfaces divided into separated parts .
The author illustrates this by examining the result of an electrical accumul:lation upon a planie rectangular sur-face takeln ' as a whole , and the results of the same accumulation upon the same surface divided into two equal and similar portionls distant from each other , and endeavours to show , that if as we increase the quantity we also increase the surface and bounldary , the intenlsity does not change .
If three or more separated equal spheres , for example , be charged with three or more equal quantities , and be each placed in separate connexion with the electrometer , the intensity of the whole is not greater than the initensity of one of the parts .
A simiiilar result ensues in charging any united niumnber of equial and simnilar electrical jars .
A battery of five equal and sinlilar jars , for example , charged with a givert quanitity -1 , has the same initenisity as a battery of ten equal tind similar jars charged with quantity -2 ; so that the intensity of the ten jars taken togtether is no greater than the intensity of one of the jars taken singly .
In accumulating a double quantity upon a giveni surface divided into two equial and separate parts , the boundaries of each being the same , the intenisity varies inversely as the square of the surface .
hence two separate equal parts can receive , taken together under the same electroineter indication , twice the quantity which either cani receive alone , in which case the charge varies withi the surface .
Thus if a given quantity be disposed upon two equal and similar jars instead of upon one of the jars only , the intensity uponI the two jars will be only onie-fourth the intensity of one of them , since the initensity in this case varies with the square of ' the surface inversely , whilst the quanitity upon the two jars under the sam-le electrometer inidication will be double the quanitity upon one of them oilly ; inu which case the charge varies with the surface , the intensity being constant .
If therefore as we increase the number of equal and similar jars we also increase the quantity , the intensity remains the same , and the charge will inicrease with the number of jars .
Taking a giveni surface therefore in equal and divided parts , as for example four equal and similar electrical jars , the intenisity is fouind to vary with the square of the quantity directly ( the number of jars remaining the same ) , and withi the square of the surface inversely ( the nuLmber of jars being increased or dimninished ) hence the charge will vary as the square of the quantity divided by the square of the surface ; and we have , calling C the charge , Q the quiantity .
r2 and S the surface , C=i which formula fully represents the phenomenon of a constant intenisity , attendant utpon the cihairging of equal separated surfaces withi quantities inereasing as the surfaces ; as in the case of charging an increasing number of equtal electrical jars .
Cases , however , niay possibly arise in which the intensity varies irnvselmey with the surface , and not inversely with the square of the suirface .
In such cases , of which the author gives some examples , the above formula does not apply .
9 .
From these inqquiries it is evident , as observed by the early electricians , that conducting bodies do not take up electricity in proportion to their surfaces , except under certain relations of surface and boundlary .
If the breadth of a givenl surface be inidefinitely diminished , and the length indefinitely increased , the surface remaining constant , then , as observed by Volta , the least quantity which can be accumiulated unider a giveni electrometer indication is when the given surface is a circular plate , that is to say , when the boundary is a miniimum , and the greatest whenextended inito a right line of small width , that is , when the boundary is a maximum .
In the iunion of two similar surfaces by a boundary conitact , as for example two circular plates , two spheres , two rectangular plates , &amp;c. , we fail to obtain twice the charge of one of them takenl separately .
In either case we fail to decrease the intensity ( the quantity being constant ) or to increase the charge ( the intensity being constant ) , it being evident that whatever dlecreases the electrometer inidication or intensity must increase the charge , that is to say , the quantity which can be accumnulated unider the given intensity .
Conversely , whatever increases the electrometer indication decreases the charge , that is to say , the quantity which can be accunmulat ed unider the given intenisity .
10 .
If the grouping or disposition of the electrical particles , in regard to surrounding matter , be such as not to materially influence external induction , then the boundary extensioli of the surface may be neglected .
In all similar figures , for exaynple , such as squares , circles , splheres , &amp;c. , the electrical boundary is , in relation to surrounding inatter , pretty much the same in each , whatever be the extenit of their respective surfaces .
In calculating the charge , therefore , of such surfaces , the boundary extensions may be neglected , in which case their relative charges are found to be as the square roots of the surfaces only ; thus the charges of circular plates and globes are as their diameters , the charges of square plates are as their sides .
In rectang , ular surfaces also , having the same boundary extensions , the same result ensues , the charges are as the square roots of the surfaces .
In cases of hollow cylinders and globes , in which one of the surfaces is shut out from external influences , only one-half the surface may be colnsidered as exposed to external in-ductive action , and the charge will be as the square root of half the surface , that is to say , as the square root of the exposed surface .
If , for example , we suppose a square plate of any given dimensions to be rolled up into an open hollow cylinder , the charge of the cylinder will be to the charge of the plate into which we may suppose it to be expanded as 1 : V/ 2 .
In like maniner , if we take a hollow globe and a circular plate of twice its diameter , the charge of the globe will be to the charge of the plate also as I : V/ 2 , which is the genieral relation of the charge of closed to open surfaces of the same extension .
The charge of a squiare plate to the charge of a circular plate of the same diameter was found to be I : 1 13 ; according to Cavendish it is as 1 : I1 5 , which is not far different .
It is not unworthy of remark that the electrical relation of a square to a circular plate of the same diameter , as determined by Cavendish nearly a cenltury since , is in near accordance with the formiiulke C VS above deduced .
11 .
The author enumerates the following formulae as embracing the general laws of qnantity , surface , boundary extensioni , and intensity , practically useful in deducing the laws of statical electrical force .
Symbols .
Let C= electrical charge ; Q= quantity ; E= intensity , or electroneter indication ; S= surface , B= boundary extenision , or perimeter ; A= direct induction ; B= reflected induction ; F_ force ; D= distance .
Formulce C oc S , when S arid B vary together .
C se Q , E being constant , or equal 1 .
C cE v/ S , B being constant , or equal 1 .
Cc v\/ B , S being constant , or equal 1 .
C Occ V'S.B , when S and B vary together .
E ac -L(Q being constant ) , for all plane rectangular surfaces .
E Sb E oc B ' S being constant , or equal 1 .
E ac1 B being constant , or equal 1 .
Eo 12 when S and B vary together .
SCa o..@.\/ .
E cc Q2 , S being constant , or equal 1 .
C cS In square plates , C oc with side of square .
In circular plates , C ac with diameter .
In globes , C cc with diameter .
A , or induction oc S , all other things remaining the same .
The same for ~ , or reflected induction .
In circular plates , globes , and closed and open surfaces , Bx cc ; or as !
F ( =E ) oc QW .
F or E cc I , S being , constant .
v1Q General lie we have F cc 12 .
The author calcu1lates from these laws of charge for circles and globes , a series of circutlar and glob'ular measures of definite values , taking the circular inch or globular inch as unity , and calling , after Cavendish , a circular plate of an inch in diameter , charged to saturation , a circular inch of electricity ; or otherwise charged to any degree short of saturation , a circular inch of electricity under a given intensity .
In like manner he designates a globe of an inch in diameter a globular inch of electricity .
In the following Table are given the quantities of electricity contained in circular plates and globes , together with their respective intensities for diameters varying from *25 to 2 inches ; a circular plate of an inch diameter and ith of an inch thick being taken as unity , and supposed to contain 100 particles or units of charge .
Diameters , Circle .
T Globe .
or uniits of charge .
Particles .
Intensity .
Particles .
Inteisity .
0 25 25 0-062 35 0 124 050 50 0 250 70 0 500 0 75 75 0 560 105 1 120 1 00 100 1*000 140 2 000 1-25 125 1 560 1 175 3 120 1 40 140 1 960 I 196 3 920 1 50 150 2-2,50 l 210 4 500 1 60 160 2 5560 224 5 120 175 175 3 060 245 6120 2-00 200 4000 280 83000 13 .
The experimen-tal investigations upon which these elementary data depend , constitute a second part of this paper .
The author here enters upon a brief review of his hydrostatic electrometer , as recently perfected and improved , it being essential to a clear comprehension of the laws and other physical results arrived at .
In this instrument the attractive force between a charged and neutral disk , in connexion with the earth , is hiydrostatically counterpoised by a small cylinder of wood accurately weighted , and partially immersed in a vessel of water .
The neutral disk and its hydrostatic counterpoise are freely suspended over the circumference of a light wheel of 2-4 inches in diameter , delicately mounted on friction-wheels , so as to have perfectly free motion , and be susceptible of the slightest force added to either side of the balance .
Due contrivanices are provided for measuring the distance between the attracting disks .
The balance-wheel carries a light inldex of straw reed , moveable over a graduated quadrantal arc , divided into 90 ' on each side of its centre .
The neutral attracting plate of the electrometer is about lIinch in diameter , and is suspended from the balance-wheel by a gold thread , over a simnilar disk , fixed on an insuilating rod of glass , placed in connexion with any charged surface the subject of experiment .
The least force between the two disks is immediately shown by the movement of the index over the graduated arc in either direction , and is eventuially counterpoised by the elevationi or depression in the water of the hydrostatic cylinder suspended from the opposite side of the wheel .
The divisions on the graduated quadrant correspond to the additioni of small weights to either side of the balance , which stanid for or represent the amount of force between the attracting plates at given measured distanices , with givell measured quantities of electricity .
This arran , gement is suisceptible of very great accuracy of measurement .
The experiment requiires an extremely short time for its development , and no calculation is necessary for dissipation .
The author carefully describes the manipulation requisite in the use of this instrutment , together with its auxiliary appendages .
Hle considers this electrometer , as anl instrument of electrical research , quite inivaluable , a(ld peculiarly adapted to the measurement of electrical force .
14 .
Having fully described this electrometer , and the nature of its indications , certain auxiliary instriimenits of quantitative measure , to be employed in connexion with it , are next adverted to .
First , the construietion and use of circular and globuilar transfer measures given in the preceding Table , by which given meas ured quaantities of eleetricity may be transferred from any electrical jar ( charged through a unitjar from the conductor of an electrical machine ) to any given surface in connexion with the electrometer .
The electrieal jar he terms a quantityJar , the construction and employment of which is minutely explained ; as also the conistruietion and employmenit of the particular kind of uniit-jar he employs .
15 .
Two experiments ( 1 and 2 ) are now giveni in illustration of this method of investigation .
Experiment I developes the law of attractive force as regards quantity ; which is found to vary with the square of the niuamber of circular or globular inches of electricity , transferred to a given surface in colnuexioni with the fixed plate of the electrometer , the distance between the attracting suirfaces being constant .
ExTerinent 2 demonstrates the law of force as regards distance between the attracting suLrfaces , the quantity of electricity being constant ; and by which it is seen that the force is in an inverse ratio of the square of the distance between the attracting plates , the plates being susceptible of perfect inductive action .
From these two experiments , taken in coniiexion with each other , we derive the following forimula , F on T ; calling F the force , Q the quanitity , and D the distaniec .
It is necessary , however , to observe that this formula only applies to electrical attractive force between a charged and neutral body in connexion with the earth , the two surfaces being susceptible of free electrical induction , both direct and reflected .
16 .
The author now refers to several experiments ( 3 , 4 , 5 , and 6 ) , showing that no sensible error arises from the reflected induictive action of the suspended neutral disk of the electrometer , or from the incireased surface attendant on the connexion of the surface under experiment with the fixed plate of the electrometer ; as also , that it is of nio clonsequence whether the suspended disk be placed immediately over the fixed attracting plate of the electrometer , or over any point of the attracting surface in connexion with it .
17 .
Having duly considered these preliminary investigations , the author now proceeds to examine experimentally the laws of surface and boundary as regards plane rectangular surfaces , and to verify the formulme C=-/ S.B , and E-=I ; in which CG-charge , E=intensity , S=surface , andc B= boundary .
For this purpose a series of smoothly-polished plates of copper were employed , varying from 10 inches square to 40 inches long by 2'Stj to 6 inches wide , and about 8th of an inch thick , exposing from 100 to 200 square inches of surface .
The charges ( 1 ) of these plates were carefully determined under a given electrometer indication , the attracting plates being at a constant distance .
Expeiiment 7 .
In this experiment , a copper plate 10 inches square is compared with a rectanigular plate 40 inches long by 2'5 inches wide .
In these plates the surfaces are each 100 square inches , whilst the boundaries are 40 and 85 inches , The bounidaries may be taken , without selsible error , as 1 : 2 , whilst the surfaces are the same .
On examining the charges of these plates , charge of the square plate was found to be 7circular inches , under an intensity of 10 ' .
Charge of the rectanigular plate 10 circular inches nearly , under the same intensity of 100 .
The charges therefore were as 7 : 10 nearly , that is , as 1 : 1'4 nearly ; being the square roots of the boundaries , that is , as 1 : V/ 2 .
Experiment 8 .
A rectangular plate 37'5 inches long by 2 ' 7 inches wide , surface 101 square inches , boundary 80'5 inches , compared with a rectanigular plate 34'25 inches long by 6 inches wide , surface 205 square inches , boundary 80'5 inches .
Here the boundaries are the same , whilst the surfaces may be taken as 1 : 2 .
On determining the cbarges of these plates , charge of the rectangular plate , surface 101 square inches was found to be 85 circular inches under an intensity of 8 ? .
Charge of the plate with double surface =205 square inches , was found to be 12 circular inches under the same intensity of 80 ; that is to say , whilst the surfaces are as 1 : 2 , the charges are as 8S5 : 12 nearly , or as the square roots of the surfaces , that is , as 1 : V2 .
Experiment 9 .
A rectangular plate 26'25 inches long by 4 inches wide , surface 105 square inches , boundary 60'5 , compared with a rectangular plate 40 inches lonig by 5 inches wide , surface 200 square inches , bouindary 90 inches .
Here the surfaces are as 1 : 2 nearly , whilst their bounkdaries are as 2 : 3 .
Charge of the rectangular plate surface =105 square inches , 7 circular inches under an inltensity of 100 .
Charge of rectangular plate surface 200 square inches , 12 circular inches , under the saine intensity of 100 .
The charges therefore are as 7 : 12 nearly , or as 1 : 1 7 , being as the square roots of the surfaces multiplied into the square roots of the boundaries very nearly .
Experiment 10 .
A square plate 10 inches square , surface 100 square inches , boundary 40 inches , compared with a rectangular plate 40 inches long by 5 inches wide , surface 200 square inches , boundary 90 inches .
Here the surfaces are double of each other , and the boundaries also double each other , or so nearly as to admit of their being considered double of each other .
Charge of square plate 6 circular inches , under an intensity of 100 .
Charge of rectangular plate 12 circular inches , under the same intensity of 100 .
The charges , therefore , are as the square roots of the surfaces and boundaries conjointlv , according to the formula C= V/ S B , as also verified in the preceding experiment 9 .
A double surface , therefore , having a double boundary , takes a double charge , but not otherwise .
Neglecting all considerations of the boundary , therefore , the surface and boundary varying together , the charge in this case will be as the surface directly .
18 .
The author having verified experimentally the laws of surface and boundary , as regards plane rectangular surfaces , proceeds to consider the charges of square plates , circular plates , spheres , and closed and open surfaces generally .
Experiment 11 .
Plate 10 inches square , surface 100 square inches , boundary 40 inches , compared with a similar plate 14 inches square , surface 196 square inches , boundary 56 inches .
Here the surfaces are as 1 : 2 nearly , whilst the boundaries are as 1 : V/ 2 nearly .
In this case charge of square plate , surface 100 square inches , was found to be 8 circular inches under an intensity of 100 .
Charge of the plate , surface 196 square inches , 11 circular inches , under the same intensity of 10 ? .
Here the charges are as 8 : 11 , whilst the surfaces may be taken as 1 : 2 , that is to say ( neglecting the boundary ) , the charges are as the square roots of the surfaces , according to the formula C= Vs .
On examining the intensities of these plates , they were found to be inversely as the surfaces ; thus 8 circular inches upon the plate , surface 100 , evinced an intensity of 100 ; 8 circular inches upoin the plate , surface 196 , evinced an intensity of 50 only , or 2 the former , according to the formula 13E=1 .
Experiment 12 .
A circular plate of !
9 inches diameter , surface 63 6 square inches , compared with a circular plate of 18 inches , or double that diameter , surface 254 square inches .
Here the surfaces are as 1 : 4 , whilst the boundaries or circumferences are as 1 : 2 .
Charge of 9-inch plate , 6 eircular inees , under an intensity of 100 .
Charge of 18-inch plate , 12 circular inches , under the same intensity of 1 00 .
Here the charges are as 1 : 2 , whilst the surfaces are as 1 : 4 ; neglecting the difference of boundary , therefore , the charges , as in the preceding experiments , are as the square roots of the surfaces .
On examining the intenlsities of these plates , Whey were founid to be inversely as the surfaces ; thus 6 circular inches upon the 9-inch plate evinced an intensity of 100 , as just stated ; 6 circular inches upon the 18-inch plate had only one-fourth the intensity , or 2 ? ?
5 ; being inversely as the surfaces , according to the formula E= Experiment 13 .
A circular plate of 9 inches diameter , surface 63 6 square inches , compared with a circular plate of 12 72 inches diameter , surface 127 2 square inches .
Ilere the surfaces are as 1 : 2 .
Charge of 9-inch plate ( surface 63-6 square inches ) , 5 circular inches , under an intensity of 8 ? .
Charge ' of 12 72-inch plate ( surface 1 27 2 square inches ) , 7 circular inches , under the same initensity of 8 ? .
The charges here are as 5 : 7 , whilst the surfaces are as 1 : 2 ; that is to say ( neglecting the boundaries ) , the charges are as the square roots of the surfaces .
On examining the intensities of these plates , they were found to be , as in the preceding experiments , inversely as the surfaces .
Experiment 14 .
Comnparison of a sphere of 45 inches diameter , surface 63-5 square inches , with a sphere of 9 inches , or double that diameter , surface 254 square inches .
Charge of sphere of 4-5 inches diameter ( surface 63-5 square inches ) , 4 circular inches , under an intensity of 9 ? .
Charge of sphere of 9 inches diameter ( surface 254 square inches ) , 8 circular inlches , under the same intensity of 9 ' .
Here the charges are as 1 : 2 , whilst the surfaces are as 1 : 4 .
The charges , therefore , are as the square roots of the surfaces , or as 1 : V4 .
On examining the intensities of these spheres , they were found to be as the surfaces in-versely , or very nearly ; being as 2 ' 5 .
and 9 ?
respectively .
Experiment 15 .
Circuilar plate of 9 inches diameter compared with a sphere of the same diameter .
Here the actual surfaces are 63-6 square inches for the plate , and 254 square inches for the sphere , being as 1 : 4 .
We have to observe , however , that one surface of the sphere is closed or shut up , consequently the exposed surfaces , electrically considered , neglecting one-half the surface of the sphere as being closed , are as 1 : 2 ; and the exposed surface of the plate is exactly one-half the exposed surface of the sphere .
Charge of plate 8 circularinches , under anl intensity of 12 ? .
Charge of sphere 11 circular inches , under the same intensity of 12 ? .
The charges , therefore , are as 8 : 11 , or sa 1 : 14 ; the exposed surfaces being as 1 : 2 .
The charges , therefore , are as the square roots of the exposed surfaces .
On examining the intensities of the plate and sphere , they were found to be in an inverse ratio of the exposed surfaces , as in the former expe riments .
Experiment 16 .
Comparison of a sphere of 7 inlches diameter with a circular plate of 14 inches , or double that diameter .
In this case the inner and outer surface of the sphere , taken together , are actually the same as the two surfaces of the plate .
The inner surface of the sphere being closed , however , as in the last experiment , the surfaces of the sphere and plate , electrically considered , are therefore not equial , and the surface of the plate is twice the surface of the sphere .
The surfaces , therefore , open to external in-duction are as 2 : 1 .
On examining the charges of the plate and sphere , they were found to be as 10 : 14 , or as 1 : 14 ; charge of sphere being 10 circular inches , unider an intensity of 200 , and charge of plate being 14 circular inches , mnder the same intensity of 20 ? .
The charge of the sphere , therefore , as compared with the charge of the plate , is as 1 : I 2 , that is , as the square roots of the exposed surfaces .
On examining the intensities of the splhere and plate , they were found to be , as in the preceding experiments , in an inlverse ratio of the exposed surfaces .
We canniot , therefore , conielude , as already observed ( 4 ) , that the capacity of the plate is twice that of the sphere .
19 .
The following experimenets are further adLduced in support of the preceding : Esperiment 17 .
A copper plate 10 inlches square , compared with the same plate rolled up into an open hollow cylinder , 10 iches long by 32 inches diameter .
Here , as in the last experiments , although the surfaces are actually the same , yet , electrically conisidered , the plate has twice the surface of the cylinder , one surface of the cylinder being shut up .
On examining the charges of the cylinder and plate , they were foun-d to lbe , as in the preceding experiments , as 1 : V 2 ; that is , as the square roots of the exposed surfaces , and the intensities in an inverse ratio of the surfaces , which seems to be a general law for closed and open surfaces .
Experiment 18 .
A hollow copper cube , side 5*7 inches , surface 195 , compared with a hollow copper sphere of diameter equal side of cube , surface 103 square inches nearly .
On examining the charges of the sphere and cube , they were found to be as 9 : 10 nearly ; charge of the sphere being 9 circular inches , under an intensity of 10 ?
, and charge of cube being 10 circular inches , under the same intensity of 100 .
The charges of a cube , and of a sphere whose diameter equals the side of the cube , approach each other , notwithstanding the differences of the surfaces , owing to the six surfaces of the clube not being in a disjointed or separated state .
20 .
The author observes , in conclusion , that the numerical results of the foregoing experiments , although not in every instance mathematically exact , yet .
upon the whole were so nearly accordant as to leave n1o doubt as to the law in operation .
It would be in fact , he observes , assumning too much to pretend in such delicate experiments to have arrived at nearer approximations than that of a degree or two of the electrometer , or within quantities less than that of *25 of a circular inch .
If the manipulation , however , be skilfully conducted , and the electrical insulations perfect , it is astoniishing how rigidly exact the numerical resuLlts generally come out .

