II .
" On the Problem of Three Bodies .
" By the Rev. J. CHALLIS , M.A. , F.R.S. , F.R.A.S. , Plumian Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy in the University of Cambridge .
Received Aay 15 , 1856 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the author is to give an approximate solution of the Problem of Three Bodies , equally applicable to the motion of the moon and to that of a planet , in which the forms of the developments of the radius-vector , longitude , and latitude in terms of the time , are directly determined by the analysis .
The solution to the first power of the disturbing force is effected by means of the following three equations , in which the letters have the significations usually given to them in the planetary theory : dt rr +C=2J{dt2(d / dr ddti dO h1 Cd/ R =- , udt dt rs ' , olJd d2z Jlz dR 0 dt2 + r3 dz After substituting in the right-hand side of the first equation , the values of r and 0 given by a first approximation in which the disturbing force is neglected , that side becomes a known function of t. The equation can then be integrated approximately so as to give the development of r in terms of t to the first power of the disturbing force , and to any power of the eccentricity it may be thought proper to retain .
By substituting in that term of the second equation which does not contain the disturbing force the value of r thus obtained , the integration of the equation gives the development of 0 in terms of t , and lastly by substitution in the third equation z is similarly developed .
The author has shown the practicability of this method by obtaining values of r and 0 to terms of the order of the eccentricity multiplied by the disturbing force .
The development of the latitude , and a more particular application of the method to the motion of the moon , are reserved for future consideration .
The particular advantages of this mode of solution are , that being free from all assumption as to the forms of the developments , it gives those which are alone appropriate to the problem , and it evolves both the periodic and the secular inequalities by the same process .
Terms containing ent as a factor , which are met with in other solutions of the same problem , do not occur in this method ; but there are terms containing the factor e'nt , which are shown to be convertible into periodic functions , and to have reference to secular variations of the eccentricity and of the motion of the apse .
The paper concludes with some general remarks on the principle of this approximate solution of the problem of three bodies , and an explanation of the analytical circumstances which make it , in common with the

