587 Further Experiments and Histological Investigations on mescences , with some Observations on Nuclear Division m Pathological Tissues .
By Miss Elizabeth Dale .
( Communicated by Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.R.S. Received March 18 , \#151 ; Read April 6 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) This paper is the third of a series on intumescences .
The first was mainly anatomical , the second chiefly experimental , and both related to one species , viz. , Hibiscus The present paper contains ( 1 ) an account of further experiments with different plants , chiefly with Solarium tuberosum and Populus On the potato plant intumescences were obtained experimentally in about 24 hours , either on a complete and uninjured plant , or on single leaves , or on small fragments of leaves .
As in the case of Hibiscus vitifolius , the effect of varying degrees of temperature and illumination were investigated , and also the influence of nutritive solutions on floating leaves\#151 ; the constant factor being a saturated atmosphere .
A close connection was established on experimental , developmental , and cytological grounds between intumescences and wound-callus .
( 2 ) Additional anatomical observations were made , and a classification of various types of intumescences , based on development and anatomical characters , has been drawn up .
The cell contents of intumescences on various plants have been examined and compared with a view to discovering the osmotic substance which causes the initial accumulation of water in the formation of intumescences .
( 3 ) In this connection experiments were made to determine whether the relative amounts of acids and salts , respectively , differed in plants with intumescences as compared with healthy individuals .
( 4 ) These observations and experiments , taken in connection with various theoretical considerations , led to the conclusion that the actively osmotic substance is an acid , probably oxalic acid .
They further , as do the experiments with fragments of leaves , show conclusively that the internal causes of the formation of intumescences are extremely local , and that root pressure is in no way concerned with the process .
The results obtained confirm and extend the conclusions reached by the earlier work with Hibiscus vitifolius , viz. , that moist air , heat , light , and 588 Histological Investigations on , etc. generally , oxygen are the necessary external factors .
But the more recent investigations bring out the importance of certain internal or biological factors , namely , irritability and either active powers of assimilation or abundance of stored food material .
( 5 ) Finally , the nuclear phenomena were investigated and compared , and were found to be in every respect identical in various intumescences and in wound-callus .
Pathological tissues in certain plants and animals are also compared , and a strong resemblance is seen to exist between certain rapidly formed outgrowths in plants and animals , caused not by any parasitic organism , but simply by the influence of some stimulus , probably always external , acting upon a plant or animal in such a condition of irritability that it is able to respond .
A similar resemblance occurs between regenerative wound tissues in certain plants and animals , the formation of which is in all cases accompanied exclusively by the more rapid form of nuclear division known as amitotic or direct .

