]\gt ; December 9 , 1880 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered or them .
The Bishop of Limerick and Professor Asa Gray Member were admitted into the Society .
The Chairman announced that the President had appointed as VicePresidents : \mdash ; The Treasurer .
Mr. W. H. Barlow .
Dr. Hirst .
Sir James Paget .
General Strache The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On a Simplified Form of the Torsion-Gravimeters of Broun and Babinet By Major J. HERSCHEL , R.E. , F.R. Deputy Superintendent , Great Trigonometrical Survey of India .
Received October 31 , 1880 .
The present communication anticipates one of greater length and extent , which I hope to be enabled to offer for publication in the " " Proceedings\ldquo ; Society , the subject of which is the gravimeters in the above title .
In case the account which I there give of these instruments should be delayed , it seems advisable to hasten , if possible , the time when a serviceable gravimeter shall be available to , by pointing out a method by which the same principle may be embodied in a simpler instrumental shape .
It is not necessary for this purpose that a prior knowledge of the existing designs should be presumed .
I hope to be able to show all that is essential without drawing upon any source but a moderate knowledge of physics .
Let us imagine a weight , , suspended by two* parallel lines , flexible , but inelastic , and offering no resistance on their own accoullt to torsion .
Let heir length be , and their distance asunder ) .
Also let be the angle through which is turned by some externnl force .
Then it may be shown that the force which exerts in a * There is no necessary restriction to suspenders .
VOL. XXXI .
P. versin exerted at a distance from the axis of motion .
When small , this may be represented by the simple function , which varies directly as the sine of the angle of detortion , being at zero and , and a maximum at This is the ordinary law of torsion of a bifilar balance , in which susponding lines are regarded as non-resisting .
Now suppose the weight held fast at its position of rest whilo the upper ends of the suspending lines , no longer impotent , but endued with elasticity and a consequent power of resistance to torsion , are turned , severally , about their own individual axes , through an angle .
The force which will be thereby developed , in what we may now call the , will be a true " " torsion\ldquo ; force .
And , if I am not mistaken , it will vary directly as the angle of torsion , and inversely as the length of the wire , but not as the as the distance of the wires from each other .
Let be what I may call the factor of torsion , for the particular quality of wire in use .
By this I mean the force , measured in grains ( provisiona ] lie ) , which , exerted at a distance unity ( in inches ) from the axis , will balance the tendency of the wire , when twisted through one turn to each unit of lengtt ] , to untwist .
Then , under the actual circumstances , the torsion of the pair will be expressed by ; which must be divided b to denote its power , applied at the ends of the wires , to turn the system .
Now , let be released , so that this torsion may act upon it .
Let ; then will take the place of in the Iast expression , and the forces in opposition will be , and ; and will obviously increase and decrease there is equilibrium .
Hence the approximate statical equation of the torsion-balance or if .
1880 .
] Torsion-Grarimeters of Broun and Babinet .
Here A is an instrumental constant , which defines the relation of the parts , of the whole angle .
As increases , increase in the proportion .
Suppose a point reached where ceases to increase : then , and .
At this point , any ' is wholly absorbed by ; which is understood , because at his point the bifilar opposition torsion is at its maximum .
suppose to be further increased , until the rate of decrease of equals the rate of increase of ; in other words , to the utmost consistent with the relation between these components .
At this point , 1 , or -A .
At this point , too , can vary reciprocally without affecting .
It is a position can only incorrectly be described as one of unstable eqmlibrium ; for though the weight would not return if moved , but on the contrary , would continue to move forward , under the pressu } of torsion ; yet , if moved , it would seek to return .
It is therefore stable on one side , and unstable on the other .
It is easy to test this practically .
I have done so , and recognise , in the peculiar conditions , such as are well suited to afford an exact determination ; as I will explain presently .
But there are one or theoretical points to be first noticed .
Sinoe , it follows that ; that A must be made not greater than unity ; and that must lie between and condition that must be is an important one .
lVhenever this is the be a value of , at which the peculiar equilibrium occur .
The condition may be fulfilled in a way to make the ition u uitable for exact ervation , but it nevertheless exists ; whereas , if is too small , is no such position .
Transposing , we see must be which it follows that whatever be the of the wires , quantity of the weight , it is always possible , by the between the former , to secure the necessary condition .
From this point of view , too , it appears that the length of the wires is immaterial .
The opposing forces are equally affected by a of length .
The magnitudc of therefrom has nothing to do with the equilibrium .
Lct us now work out a case .
I find that a piece of pianoforte wirc , inch diameter , will carry 100 lbs. ; will bear , ithout apparent Suppose we decide to use a of 200 lbs. , so that nearJy .
Then must be greater than , or inch .
This is so small a limit , that it aflords no guide to the best valuc to give to Again , since nearly , it is clear that must be small , otherwise would be large , and this would demand a great length of wire .
We may , indeed , put as the least allowable , and this at once gives , at .
It seems therefore that we must estimate first .
Let us take 3 feet or 36 inches .
This gives or inoh .
A smaller value would give ' lower pitch to the twist .
which is desirable .
We may therefore take inch .
Whence , in terms of radius , or revolutions .
Finally , , and .
nearly .
We may sum up the results , so far , as follows : weight of 200 lbs. , suspended by two inch steel wires , 36 inches in lgtb , parallel at four-fifths of an inch apart , will be in unstable equilibrium at from its normal position , when the upper ends of the wires each been turned about their own centres through 4 revoIutions , or 4 revolutions , from the same normal position .
In this condition any addiion to the weight will tend to strengthen the equilibrium , while , on the contrary , any relief of weight will throw the system over the summit and set it off , allowing it to expend the torsion in twisfing the two wires together .
I will now show how this arrangement may be adapted as a gravimeter , not so much aiming at a description of a finished instrum as at a sketch of something which will fully illustrate what a more perfect design would fulfil .
A piece of wire , of the kind described , 7 feet , is to be twisted upon itself , without , giving it ten full turns of torsion , and the ends are then to be secured to each other .
This can easily be done so as to give it no chance of relieving itself otherwise than by set , a term which I understand to be the technical one in this connexion , meaning that change which takes place in a wire when it is superborted or overturned beyond what its elasticity will bear .
A wire so 1880 .
] of Broun and Babinet .
tied up should retain its torsion indefinitely .
The force thus permanently stored represents the constant force against which gravity is to be measured .
1 To use it , I imagine the ends of the double or twisted cord clamped in two frames of suitable make .
upper one grasps the junction , the lower one the bight .
The wires issue from the jaws of the clamps at 0.8 inch from each other .
The upper clamp is vtached to a support capable of sustaining , without shake , the iutended weight of .
The lower is attached to the weight so as to have as little loose motion as may be , but so as also to be easily detached for transport .
Before detaching it the wires should be allowed to twist upon each other .
They would then be placed , wibh their clamps , in a box specially prepared to guard them from all imaginable There would be an arrangement above by which , when attached , the upper clamp would be raised slowly , so as to take up ; which would } ) turned without rising as the wires untwisted , until finally , it would hang ; the wires then being in a state of torsion , the lower ends in a different vertical plane from the upper , according to the weight .
I assume that on thus the weight is in exc.ess , so that the angle between the two planes ( which will be the of the theory ) will be about In this condition we want means of relieving the suspension of so much of the as will allow the mass to reach the position of unstable equilibrium , and of determining exactly how much .
This I propose to effect as follows:\mdash ; weight is to consist of a cylindrical drum , capable of holding .3 cubic feet of water .
Near the bottom it will have a small stopcock .
When the apparatus is in repose , the cock is to be urned .
The flow of water will relieve the weight , the drum will slowly turn , under the solicitation of the wires .
If allowed to run freely it can be shut ofl when the critical point has been passed .
This is the first approximation .
A little water is put back , and now the cock is turned so as to reduce flow to drops only .
The effect can be watched with a microscope .
The flow can at any time be stopped or accelerated .
Experiellae will enable this determination to be made with a of precision which it is impossible ) over-estimate .
The drum should be as light as possible , and silvered inside or tinised .
The object is to secure a minimum of friction .
As the critic .
point is approached the force is so small that it would take long to move the whole mass if solid ; and if the whole mass were in motion its momentum would be tronblesome .
For bhe same reason the observation cannot be made mntil the body of water is at rest .
The same drum will serve for all weights , and makes it obtain a series of results with different pairs of wires\mdash ; all prepared the same way , but of ifferent torsions and widths apart .
real bottom of the water spacc being conical , with the stopcock at ths 3 apex .
By an easy ement the closing of the cock might be effected as a consequence of the critical point of unstable equilibrium being reached and passed , the swing being checked by a stop pressing on the ' cock and shutting it off .
Being thus self-acting , the flow might be made as slow as desired , with the certainty of the proper result being reached without further attention .
The quantity of water remaining could then be measured at leisure .
The change of graviby which would cause a change of rate of one second per diem in a seconds pendulum is parb .
On a weight of , or 1,400,000 , this would bc , or rather more than half a fluid dra1n .
I am , of course , quite aware that the efficiency of such a gravimeter depends ultimate ] on the constancy of the torsion .
This is a sine qua in any gravimeter on the torsion principle , and I assume it to exist .
If it does nob exist , no gravimeter on this principle can be lcccssfol .
Nor am I regardless that , and all other iers depending on clasticity , are at the mcrcy of tempcrature .
But however impossible it may be to command a definito and uniform temperature wherever such an instrument may be instated for vation of the change of avity , the converse is possible enough : the constancy of gravity can be guaranteed* observations are instituted for determlnlng the effect of thermometric change .
So that if instlfficient knowledge of the riation of elasticity with temperature debars such an instrument from used as gravimeter , it may with the more reason be looked to to increase that knowledge .
It seems only neccssary to add that the mode of utilising the fact of a position of unstable exi ting , if desired , between and , as here indicated , may open to objection without preventing that fact capable of tion in some better way .
The need of a statical gravimeter is so grcat that I hope what I have said may draw attention to subject by showing how very simple it eally is .
Under correction , I would hazard the assertion there is no instrument which would command a more mediate field of usefulness than a simply tructed gravimeter , and I think I have shown it is possible to co1lstruct one .
at any rate is , at most , suspccted moro or less , by a

