]\gt ; Mr. W Brennand .
[ Jan. 26 , resulting in the production of several very interesting and very beautiful metallurgical specimens .
The great advantage of this process is , like that of the foregoing separation from arsenic , its extre simplicity , the low temperature which renders it possible to work upon very large quantities one time , and the very small amount of time necessary for this separation in comparison with the process hitherto adopted , and the absence of loss in the bismuth operated upon by volatilisation .
is obvious that where metals can be so easily treated in large quantities , the labour and skill hitherto necessary is very considerably reduced , and there is the additional advantage that the loss attending large operations is minimised .
In this and in my previous papers upon this beautiful metal bismuth , I have been able to point to simple dry processes for its separation from gold , lead , copper , arsenic , and antimony , and all these processes are available for treating with care large quantities at one time .
When it is remembered what is involved in havlng to dissolve any quantity of bismuth in acids , and its subsequent precipitation from solution , it surely will be admitted that much of the difficulty in purifying crude bismuth has been effectively removed , as the methods given have been found possible in practice , and advantageous .
I have introduced upon the diagram the poin at which arsenic is volatilised , and also the point at which antimony separates from smuth under the conditions described in this paper .
III .
' : On the Three-Bar Motion of Watt By WILLIAM BRENNAND .
Communicated by C. B. CLARKE , F.R.S. Received January 2 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) figure represents a simple form of ' ' Watt 's Parallel Motion the arms that can turn freely about O , O ' , fixed centres , in one plane .
The link AB is pivoted at A and B. As the arms move , the middle of the link , traces out a portion of the curve , , from to , backwards and forwards , nearly in a right line .
OC \mdash ; Of the three parameters , any one can be taken as ( in this paper is taken 10 units ) ; then and are independent parameters .
The problem Watt had to solve was to discover numerical values of and that should give the tracing point the smallest deviation from a line .
Watt gave a series of values for and which are employed by ngineers , with small thumb-rule ameliorations , to this day .
They 1893 .
] On the Three-Bar Motion of Watt .
' ' good\ldquo ; values , i.e. , they give the path of rectiliuear ; but they are all subject to the relation The above is one of this class ; in these the tangent at the lies wholly outside the curve , and has the closest possible contact with it , hile at the moment the point passes through the , the arms are at angles to the link .
The question arises , may there not be better values of and ( not subject to the relation ) which give a more nearly rectilinear motion to than any of the Watt values The equation to the curve traced by , in common polar coordinates , is CO initial radius vectol . . . . . .
( ) Willis ( ' Principles of Mechanism , ' p. 401 ) says that the full equation is so exceedingly involved and complex as to be of no use in obtainthe required practical results .
And Willis follows precediug writers in " " } ) proximate methods The present paper takes up the subject this point , and general substance of the paper and its l.esults may be stated under three heads , .
:\mdash ; 1 .
The nature and properties of the ctlrve ( A ) are wol.ked out so that a complete idea of it for all values of and is obtained .
2 .
Hence derived numerous values for and which give good results ; the deviation in these from the right line is calculated , and in some of them shown to be less than in ally the arl.angements given by Watt. .
3 .
The more complex arrangements , where tlJe 1adii are not equal or where the tracing point divides the rod unequally , are also dealt with .
In the first head , 'large use has been made of plotting the Presents .
meters and as if they were and coordinates , and supposing at each point of the " " chart\ldquo ; thus resulting that the curve ( A ) is existent that point .
This method is capable of great extension ; it is used in the present paper in the , and has been found of great service in aling with other complex curves , as when the tracing point is not iu the sfraight line AB .
Watt gave a rule for " " fixing\ldquo ; in the particular set of cases where .
A very simple practical rule for fixing has been found for all values of and The ' glish Mechanic ' of December 29 , 1882 , published my first attempts on this curve ; and the chart is there employed .
The writings of late years on Three-Bar Motion , by Mr. Roberts , Professor Cayley , and others , do not appear to invade the narrow area of the present paper , which especially aims at } numbers for and of practical value .
Presents , , 1898 .
Transactions .
Baltimore :Johns Hopkins University .
Studies in Historical and Political Science .
Series 10 .
Nos. 10\mdash ; 11 . .
Baltimore .
The Universiiy .
Berlin :Deutsche Chemischc Gesellschaft .
Berichte .
1892 .
Nos. .
Berlin 1892 .
The Society .
K. Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Acta Borussica .
Denkmaler der Preussischen Staatsverwaltung im 18 .
Jahrhundert.\mdash ; Seidenindustrie .
3 vols .
Large .
Berlin 1892 .
The Academy .
Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde .
Die Entdeckung Amerika 's in ihrer Bedeutung fur die Geschichbe des Weltbildes .
Von K. Kretschmer .
Festschrift der Gesellschaft Erdkunde zn Berlin . .
Berlin 1892 .
With accompanying Atlas in Folio .
The Society .
Brussels :Acad Royale de Medecine de Belgique .
Bulletin .
Ser. 4 .
Tome .
Nos. 4\mdash ; 10 . .
Bruxelles 1892 .
The Academy .
Academy Royale des Sciences .
Bulletin .
Ser. 3 .
Tome XXIII .
Nos. 3\mdash ; 11 .
Tome XXIV .
Nos. 7\mdash ; 11 . .
Bruxelles 1892 ; Annuaire .
1893 .
xelles 1892 .
The Academy .
Bucharest : de Sciint , Fizice .
Buletinul .
Anul 1 .
No. 9\mdash ; 10 .
1892 .
The Society .

