1878 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
Use of Reflection Grating .
107 ( No other organisms appeared in these cultivations .
) These were again used to inoculate other preparations of aqueous humour , and so on , until 1 succeeded in obtaining considerable quantities of liquid , containing only bacillus and its spores .
The last-named animals were infected with liquid of this kind .
Seeing that splenic fever , pneumo-enteritis , and specific septicaemia possess a great affinity in anatomical respects , and seeing that in splenic fever and pneumo-enteritis the materies morbi is a definite species of bacillus\#151 ; the difference of species being sufficiently great to account for the differences in the two diseases\#151 ; we may with some probability expect that also the- third of the group , viz. , specific septicaemia , is due to a bacillus .
This , however , remains to be demonstrated .
It seems , finally , justifiable to speculate whether or not we have in these three varieties of disease " a variation of species " in the sense of the evolution theory .
IY .
" On the Use of the Reflection Grating in Eclipse Photography .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received February 8 , 1878 .
The results obtained by the Eclipse Expedition to Siam have lead me to think that , possibly , the method of using the Coronal atmosphere as a circular slit , suggested by Professor Young and myself for the Indian Eclipse of 1871 , might be applied under very favourable conditions , if the prism , or train of prisms , hitherto employed , were replaced by one of those reflection gratings with which the generosity of Mr. Rutherfurd has endowed so many of our observers .
To test this notion I have made some experiments with a grating , which I Owe to Mr. Rutherfurd 's kindness , containing 17,280 lines to the inch .
The results of these observations I have now the honour of laying before the Royal Society .
In front of the lens of an ordinary electric lamp , which lens was adjusted to throw a parallel beam , I introduced a circular aperture , cut in cardboard , forming an almost complete ring , some 2 inches in interior diameter , the breadth of the ring being about ^ inch .
This was my artificial eclipse .
At a distance from the lamp of about 13 yards , I mounted a 3f inch Cooke telescope , of 54 inches focal length .
Some distance short of this focus I placed Mr. Rutherfurd 's grating , and , where the first order spectrum fell , I placed a focussing screen .
To adjust for sharp focus , in the first instance , the grating was so inclined to the axis of is also in accordance with the observations of Professor Cohn , for this authority states ( 1 .
c. , p. 265 ) " Die Sporen schwollen etwas an und trieben an einem End einen kurzen Keimschlauch .
" 108 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
Use of Reflection Grating .
[ Feb. 14 , the telescope that the image of the ring reflected by the silver surface adjacent to the grating was thrown on to the screen .
This done , the grating was placed at right angles to the axis , and the spectrum of the circular slit , illuminated by sodium vapour and carbon vapour , photographed for the first , second , and third orders on one side .
The third order spectrum , submitted to the Society with this communication , showing the exquisite rings due to the carbon vapour flutings , was produced in 42 seconds .
The first order spectrum , also submitted to the Society , was produced in the same period of time , and was very much over-exposed .
Tt is , therefore , I thihk not expecting too much that we should be able to take a photograph of the eclipse , in the third order , in two minutes ; but let us make it four .
Similarly , we may hope for a photograph of the second order in two minutes , and it is , I think , highly probable also that a photograph of the first order may be obtained in one minute .
It is clear then that , by mounting photograhic plates on both sides of the axis , one solidly mounted equatorial of short focal length may 3 enable us to obtain a large number of photographs , with varying lengths of exposure , of the next eclipse .
I have insisted upon the solidity of the mounting because , if any one plate is to be exposed during the whole of totality , the instrument must not be violently disturbed or shaken while the eclipse is going on .
I think , however , it is quite possible to obtain several photographs , of the lower order spectra , without any such disturbance .
The same plate may be made to record three , or even four , exposures in the case of the first order in an eclipse of four minutes duration , by merely raising or lowering it after a given time , by means of a rapid screw or other equivalent contrivance , so that a fresh portion of the same plate may be exposed .
Similarly , the plates on which the spectra of the second order are to be recorded may be made to perform double duty .
If one equatorial thus mounted were to be devoted to each quadrant of the coronal atmosphere , it is certain , I think , that most important results would be obtained .

