On certain Organisms isolated from Cancer , S ; c. \#171 ; 4 Preliminary Note upon certain Organisms isolated ^ from Cancer , and their Pathogenic Effects upon Animals .
" By H. 0 .
Plimmer , M.R.C.S. , F.L.S. , Pathologist , and lecturer on Pathology and Bacteriology , St. Mary 's Hospital , London .
Communicated by Professor J. Rose Bradford , F.B.S. Received February 22 , \#151 ; Read March 9 , 1899 .
( The following specimens were exhibited at the reading of the paper : 1 .
Sections of the cancer from which the cultures were made .
2 .
The cultures on various media .
3 .
Preparations of the cultures .
4 .
Sections of the organs of the animals in which tumours have been produced .
5 ' .
Animals , or portions of them , in which tumours have been produced .
) During the past six years I have been studying the cell-inclusions found in cancer , and their relation both to the origin and course of the disease ; and for this work I have had to examine 1278 cancers taken from various organs and parts , and of all possible varieties .
Out of this large number of cases there have been a few nine in all in which the cell-inclusions have been extremely numerous ; so that at the growing edge , and even far into the tumour , scarcely a cell could be found without an inclusion , sometimes with as many as thirty-six even of these inclusions in one cell ; and these bodies have been similar to those which Metschnikoff , Ruffer , and others , as well as myself , have regarded and described as parasites , standing in causal relationship to the disease .
In two out of the nine cases mentioned , these bodies have been present in enormous numbers ; and I have succeeded in isolating from the last of these remarkable cases , an organism , which is pathogenic , in a peculiar manner , to certain animals , and whose virulence I have been able to keep unimpaired for some months .
Previous Work on the Experimented Production of Tumours in Animals .
The only work , I think , that needs mention here in connection with this heading is that of Sanfelice , in Cagliari , and of Roncali , in Rome .
Sanfelice has produced tumours in animals with organisms which he isolated from infusions of various fruits ; and they both have isolated organisms from cancers , which , I believe , from their descriptions I have not seen their cultures\#151 ; are morphologically somewhat similar to those I am about to bring before you .
But Sanfelice 's organism appears to have been very difficult to isolate in a virulent form from human cancer , and to keep virulent ; so that in his last paper , * he * ' Zeitsclirift fiir Hygiene,5 1899 .
432 Mr. H. G- .
Plimmer .
Note certain Organisms isolated treats only of the organisms derived from fruit infusions , and of their effects upon animals .
Most of their statements are doubted by the German pathologists , including such a good observer as Baumgarten .
But , from my own experience , I do not find any reason to doubt any of Sanf el ice 's statements ; and I think that he deserves the greatest credit for removing the study of the aetiology of cancer from the histological to the experimental region of work .
On the Method of Isolation adopted .
The cancer , from which the organisms I describe were isolated , and with which my experiments have been made , was taken from the breast of a woman , aged thirty-five years ; it had a history of only two months ' duration , and it was growing rapidly at the time of the operation .
Immediately after removal , I examined a fresh scraping , and , finding such an extraordinary number of the bodies I have mentioned in the cells , I cut , with all possible precautions against contamination , with a carefully sterilised knife , very thin slices from the growth , which I placed with a little of the juice scraped from the cut surface in a flask containing the following liquid , which was of course carefully sterilised .
This medium consisted of an infusion made from cancer , just as the ordinary beef infusion is made , to which was added , after careful neutralisation , 2 per cent , of glucose and 1 per cent , of tartaric acid .
This medium was the outcome of many trials with all kinds of mixtures , and I tried it in this case as I had already got similar organisms to grow in it from two previous cases ; but they had no pathogenic properties , and this , I think , was due to the omission of the next step .
This medium , too , is particularly useful , as hardly any bacteria , however hardy , will grow upon it .
Then , remembering that in the body these organisms were under anaerobic conditions , I exhausted the air from my flasks , and passed hydrogen into them , finally sealing them up .
This I have found is of great importance as regards the maintenance of the virulence ; and I find , consequently , that there is no falling off in the virulence of my cultures , which are as active now as they were four months ago .
Five flasks were made in this way , but , in spite of precautions , two became contaminated with moulds ; in the other three , however , I got , after from three to five days , a pure culture of the organism I describe , and which has been kept growing in this and various other media ever since .
Morphology and Relation to Media .
The organism is apparently a saccharomyces ; but I am informed that , according to some authorities ( such as De Bary , Cuboni , and from Cancer , and their Pathogenic Effects upon Animals .
433 Duclaux ) , the Saccharomycetes are nothing hut the developmental stages of fungi which really belong to either the Phyco- , Asco- , or Basidio-mycetes .
Moreover , they state that in some species of mycelium-forming fungi , single parts , especially conidia , can grow in the saccharomyces form on certain nutrient media : so I will not attempt to locate this organism at present .
Sanfelice and Roncali , however , definitely state that the organisms they have isolated are Blasto-mycetes .
When grown in the medium described , these organisms produce a cloudiness which becomes visible in about forty-eight hours , and increases till about the sixth day , when the growth sinks to the bottom , the medium then becoming clear ; no scum or pellicle is formed .
When grown on this medium solidified with agar , the organisms form small round colonies which remain separate ; after some weeks the colour , which was originally white , becomes yellow ; the colonies do not attain a much greater size than those here shown .
Gelatin is not liquefied , but the growth on this medium is never luxuriant .
On potato , a thick white layer is formed , which in about two weeks will cover the entire surface , changing then to a yellowish-brown colour .
They will grow aerobically , but not so well , at any rate at first ; and they lose their virulence in a short time if continuously grown in this way .
Microscopically , they are round bodies , frequently growing in clumps , with a nucleus which stains deeply , and , in most cases , with a thin , strongly refractile capsule , which sometimes shows a double contour ; but some young forms can be seen which are apparently without a capsule .
The size varies from 0004 mm. to 0-04 mm. Their reproduction appears to be by budding , but I have fancied that I have also seen , in a few instances , endogenous budding ; of this , however , I am not certain .
These bodies correspond morphologically with those found in the original tumour , and also with those described by Buffer and myself , and by some others of those who have worked at the microscopical appearances of cancer .
Experimental Results .
I have selected , from the experimental work which I have done with these organisms , those experiments which seemed to me to be the most important .
Up to the present , I have not been able to make any experiments upon such animals as would allow of the easy bringing of these organisms into contact with a likely epithelial surface , with the exception of the cornea ( videExperiment 4 below ) ; but , through 434 Mr. H. G. Plimmer .
Note upon certain Organisms isolated the kindness of Dr. Bradford , I have been enabled now , at the Brown Institution , to inoculate a bitch in the mammae , but the time is as yet too short to enable me to make any statement as to the result .
The cultures used in the following experiments were made in the medium previously described .
( 1 ) Rabbit.\#151 ; Intravenous injection of 5 c.c. of an eight days old culture .
No obvious result .
The rabbit was killed thirteen weeks after and found apparently normal .
( 2 ) Rabbit.\#151 ; Intraperitoneal injection of 10 c.c. of a twenty-one days old culture .
No obvious result .
The rabbit was killed eight weeks after and found apparently normal .
( 3 ) Rabbit.\#151 ; Subcutaneous injection of 5 c.c. of a three days old culture .
No obvious result .
This rabbit was used later for experiment No. 4 , and when killed , fourteen weeks after this experiment , was found normal ; nothing was found at the seat of injection .
( 4 ) Rabbit.\#151 ; Both cornese were scraped , and the sediment of a ten days old culture rubbed over them .
The rabbit was killed in forty-eight hours .
There was considerable proliferation of the corneal epithelium , which had forced its way into the subjacent tissue .
The organisms were found in the epithelial cells , after fixing and staining , with appearances similar to those of the inclusions in cancer cells , as described by Buffer and myself .
( 5 ) Rabbit.\#151 ; Trephined and inoculated beneath the dura matter with 5 c.c. of a seven days old culture .
The rabbit died in nine and a half days ; wound healed .
The brain and cord contained the organisms in large numbers .
Pure cultures were obtained from brain , liver , and kidney .
Nothing obtained from blood , spleen , or peritoneal fluid .
( 6 ) Rabbit.\#151 ; Trephined and inoculated beneath the dura matter with 5 c.c. of a three days old culture , made from brain of No. 5 .
The rabbit died in eight days ; wound healed .
Organisms found in heart , blood , brain , and cord .
Pure cultures made from brain , cord , kidney , and liver .
( 7 ) Guinea-pig.\#151 ; Subcutaneous injection of 5 c.c. of a ten days old culture .
No obvious result .
The guinea-pig was killed in fifteen days , and was found apparently normal ; nothing was found at seat of injection .
from Cancer , and their Pathogenic Effects Animals .
435 ( 8 ) Guinea-pig.\#151 ; Intraperitoneal injection of 10 c.c. of a three weeks old culture .
Died in twenty days .
Liver , lungs , and peritoneum studded with new growths of a white colour ; lymphatic glands in abdomen enlarged .
Pure cultures made from liver , lungs , and abdominal glands ; nothing obtained from blood .
Sections of the above mentioned parts showed new growths of an endothelial nature , with the organisms within the cells , and free in the tissues .
( 9 ) Guinea-pig.\#151 ; Intraperitoneal injection of 10 c.c. of an eight days old culture , made from abdominal glands of No. 8 .
The guinea-pig died in seventeen and a half days , and showed the same appearances as No. 8 .
Cultures were made as before , and also from the blood .
In this case the omentum was also studded with new growths .
I have given here some of the failures and successes which have been constant ; and I should like to add that Professor Wright , of Netley , has repeated some of the experiments I have made , and that his results coincide with mine .
The important point , of course , of all this is\#151 ; the experimental production of malignant tumours in animals by an organism isolated from a malignant tumour in man .
That these experimental tumours are , so far , of endothelial origin is due to the fact that until I was enabled to inoculate a dog , I found it very difficult to get the organism in contact with likely epithelium ; all the above methods of inoculation , save one , could only bring them into contact with endothelial surfaces .
No. 4 ( the corneal experiment ) is the only one in which an epithelial surface was tried ; and in this case the great proliferation of the epithelium , the appearances of the organisms in the cells , and the irritation produced , are very striking .
P\gt ; ut the fact of being able to excite a malignant growth with an organism isolated from cancer is , I think , a point of some importance in the aetiology of cancer .
I am at present experimenting with the view of observing the effects produced by these organisms when brought into contact with epithclia .
The deductions which I think may fairly be made from these observations and experiments are as follows :\#151 ; ( 1 ) That there are certain cancers , which occur very rarely , in which there are , in enormous numbers , intracellular bodies of the kind described by Puffer , myself , and others , as parasitic Protozoa .
( From the rarity of these cases and their comparatively acute course , one is tempted to think that they are not due to the same cause as ordinary cancers ; but there is really no more difference between them and ordinary cancers than between acute and chronic tubercle .
) VOL. LXIV .
43G Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
On th Gastric Gland ( 2 ) That by the use of appropriate means these intracellular bodies can be isolated and cultivated outside the body .
( 3 ) That these cultures , when introduced into certain animals , can cause death , with the production of tumours , so far of endothelial origin ; and that pure cultures can be made from these growths which , when inoculated into suitable animals , will produce similar tumours .
" On the Gastric Gland of Mollusca and Decapod Crustacea : its Structure and Functions .
" By C. A. MacMunn , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. B.S. Beceived February 23 , \#151 ; Bead March 9 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) In 1883 I communicated a paper* to the Iloyal Society , in which I described the occurrence of a pigment closely resembling vegetable chlorophyll in the so-called liver of Invertebrates , and in 1885 a further contribution in continuation of the same subject , which was published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' ( Part I , 1886 ) .
I named this colouring matter " enterochlorophyll , " because after comparing it with all the animal pigments and plant pigments known to me , it seemed to resemble , both in its chemical and spectroscopic characters , the chlorophyll of plants .
In the latter paper , I endeavoured to describe the microscopic characters of this pigment , as it was found in the digestive gland , and I applied all the tests then considered to be distinctive of chlorophyll to the solutions of the pigment .
I found that whereas enterochlorophyll appeared to be a chlorophyll , or a modified chlorophyll , it yet differed in some respects from chlorophyll , as it is obtained directly from fresh green leaves .
Some recent writers have called in question the right to call this pigment by the above name , so I have reinvestigated the whole subject .
It was , however , necessary first of all to study the histology of the digestive gland , or gastric gland , as it is now named , and the microscopic characters of the pigment found in it .
This has been done by Max Weber and Frenzel for the gland of Crustacea , and by Barfurth and by Frenzel for the gland of mollusca.f As can be gleaned from these observers , great difficulties attend the preparation of this gland for microscopic observation .
I found after numerous failures that formol is the best fixative , used in stronger solution than it usually is employed in vertebrate histology .
Thus it is necessary to employ solutions containing from 20 to 30 per cent , of * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 35 ( 1883 ) , p. 370 .
f References are given in the complete paper .

