Chemical Experiments on Guaiacum .
By Mr. William Brand .
Communicated by Charles Hatchett , Esq. F.R.S. Read December 19 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 89 .
] No one of the resins , Mr. Brand observes , possesses so many curious properties as that called Guaiacum ; and he thinks it remarkable , that although many of the alterations it undergoes , when heated with different solvents , have been mentioned by various , authors , it has not excited a more particular attention .
After noticing its more obvious properties , of which we shall only repeat , that when pulverised , it is of a gray colour , but gradually becomes greenish by exposure to the air , he proceeds to examine the action of various solvents upon it .
The first solvent tried by Mr. Brand was water ; about 9 per cent. of extractive matter was taken up , and the solution appeared also to contain a small portion of lime .
Alcohol , which was next tried , dissolved nearly the whole of the guaiacum , leaving only about 5 per cent , of extraneous matter .
The effects of water , of various acids , and of alkalies , upon this solution , are then noticed .
Water forms a milky fluid , which passes the filter .
Muriatic acid throws down an ash-coloured precipitate .
Liquid oxymuriatic acid forms a precipitate of a pale blue colour .
Sulphuric acid forms one of a pale green .
Acetic acid does not form any precipitate ; nor does nitric acid until after the expiration of some hours , unless water be added , in which case a precipitate may be sooner obtained .
This precipitate is of a green or a blue colour ; whereas that which forms spontaneously is brown .
Alkalies do not form any precipitate when added to the solution of guaiacum in alcohol .
Guaiacum is less soluble in sulphuric ether than in alcohol , but the properties of the two solutions are nearly similar .
Muriatic acid dissolves only a small portion of guaiacum .
Sulphuric acid forms with that substance a deep red liquid , which , when fresh prepared , deposits a lilac-coloured precipitate on the addition of water , The effects of nitric acid on guaiacum are minutely examined , of which we shall only mention , that this acid , when its specific gravity was 1 39 , completely dissolved guaiacum , which solution , after standing some hours , deposited a quantity of crystallized oxalic acid ; but when the nitric acid was diluted , a slight effervescence took place , and a part only of the resin was dissolved , the remainder being converted into a brown substance , which was similar to the brown precipitate obtained , by nitric acid , from the solution of guaiacum in alcohol , and possessed the properties of a resin in greater perfection than guaiacum itself .
If successive portions of nitric acid be added to the above-mentioned residuum , or if a large quantity of that acid is employed so as to form a complete solution , a product may be obtained , by evaporation , which is equally soluble in water and in alcohol ; both which solutions have an astringent bitter taste .
Guaiacum is soluble in the pure and in the carbonated alkalies .
The precipitates formed from these solutions , by dilute sulphuric acid and by muriatic acid , were of a flesh colour , and approached to the nature of extract ; being less acted upon by sulphuric ether , but more soluble in boiling water than guaiacum .
Mr. Brand now proceeds to the analysis , by distillation , of the substance here treated of .
By this method he obtained , from 100 grains , the following products : Acidulated water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 55 Thick brown oil , becoming turbid on cooling ... 24*5 Thin empyreumatic oil ... ... ... ... ... ... 30'0 Coal remaining in the retort ... ... ... ... 30 5 Mixed gases , chiefly carbonic acid and carbonated 9X0 hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
99-5 The coal , on incineration , yielded four grains of lime , but no alkali could be discovered .
From the foregoing experiments it appears , that although guaiacum possesses many of the properties common to resins , it differs from them in the following circumstances .
1 .
By affording a portion of vegetable extract .
2 .
By the alterations which take place in it when submitted to the action of bodies which readily communicate oxygen , such as nitric and oxymuriatic acids , and by the rapidity with which it is dissolved in the former .
3 .
By being capable of being converted into a more perfect resin , in which it resembles the green resin that constitutes the colouring matter of leaves .
4 .
By yielding oxalic acid .
5 .
By the quantity of charcoal and lime obtained from it by distillation .
These circumstances , the author says , shows that guaiacum differs not only from the substances denominated resins , but also that it differs from those which are called balsams , gum-resins , gums , and extracts ; and he thinks we may , for the present , consider guaiacum as composed of a resin , modified by the vegetable extractive principle , so that it may perhaps , without impropriety , be defined by the term Extracto-resin .
In a postscript Mr. Brand observes , that the action of oxygen on some other resinous bodies is very remarkable .
By digesting mastic in alcohol , a partial solution is formed , leaving an elastic substance , which is said to possess the properties of caoutchouc , but which becomes hard by exposure to the air .
TIhe author has remarked , that the portion of mastic dissolved in the alcohol may be precipitated from it by water , and that this precipitate possesses the properties of a pure resin ; but when a stream of oxymuriatic acid gas was passed through the solution , a tough elastic substance was thrown down , which became brittle when dry : this precipitate was soluble in boiling alcohol , but separated from it as the solution became cool .
Its properties , therefore , approached in some measure to those of the original insoluble part .

