OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
VOL. XCI.\#151 ; A. b CONTENTS Page Eobert Harley ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... i Jules Henri Poincare ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... vi Sir Eobert Stawell Ball ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... xvii Lord Strathcona and Mount Eoyal ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xxii Earl of Crawford ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... xxv Sir David Gill ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xxvi G. W. Hill ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xlii Sir George Nares ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
lii Sir John Murray ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
liv William Grylls Adams ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... lxiii E. H. Amagat ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... lxv Henry William Lloyd Tanner ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
lxix REV .
ROBERT HARLEY , M.A. , F.R.S. The Harleys can be traced back to a Norse stock of Harlas .
Robert Harley 's family was settled in Dunfermline for hundreds of years .
His father , Robert Harley of Dunfermline , began life as a merchant with property bequeathed to him by his uncle , Sir William Mitchell ( a Vice-Admiral who fought with Nelson ) , but he gave up a good business in Scotland to become a Wesleyan minister in England .
His mother was Mary Stevenson , niece of General Stevenson of Air .
They were living at Seacombe , near Liverpool , when Robert Harley was born ( January 23 , 1828 ) .
When a small boy he was devoted to swimming but found arithmetic the most irksome of his studies .
He was in this respect very backward , but seems suddenly to have developed talent and enthusiasm while at school at Blackburn , which led to his accepting a post as mathematical master at a Seacombe school when he was only 16 .
Shortly after this he was attracted by the mathematical problems which were appearing in 4 The Lady 's and Gentleman 's Diary .
' His interest in the solutions had one very important result , for it brought him into contact with a young barrister , nine years his senior\#151 ; James Cockle\#151 ; who later became a distinguished mathematician , a knight , a Fellow of the Royal Society , and Chief Justice of Queensland .
They became life-long friends , and there is no doubt that his scientific work was more influenced by Sir James Cockle than by any other single individual who could be named .
When Sir James died in 1895 Mr. Harley wrote the obituary notice for the Royal Society 's 4 Proceedings .
' At the age of 17 he returned , as head assistant-master , to his old school at Blackburn .
This was kept by William Hoole , J.P. , a well-remembered mayor of the town , by whom Viscount Morley of Blackburn and many others who have since risen to distinction were educated .
At the age of 23 he determined to be a minister , and became a divinity student at Airedale College , Bradford , and on completing his course accepted a call to become minister of the Independent Chapel at Brighouse , in the West Riding of Yorkshire .
When he was 26 he married Sara Shoyan , niece of Mr. Hoole , and daughter of James Shoyan of Wigan , also of Scottish extraction , and lived happily with her for fifty-one years .
He served at Brighouse for fourteen years .
His four children , two sons and two daughters , were all born there .
His congregation built him a comfortable manse and a much larger chapel .
He laboured strenuously for the good of the growing village , preaching in the open air with his friend William Booth , afterwards famous as the Father of the Salvation Army .
He started Penny Readings for the poor , and himself took part in them every Saturday night .
He was much beloved by the people , and Harley Street , Harley Court and Harley Place remain to link his memory with the now prosperous town .
During the last four years of his Pastorate at Brighouse he was VOL. XCI.------A c j* Obituary Notices oj Fellows deceased .
Professor of Mathematics and Logic at his old college , Airedale ( now the United College ) , Bradford .
During this time George Boole was a frequent visitor at the Manse .
Mr. Harley was devoted to him , and was captivated by his application of mathematics to logic .
He became , perhaps , the most notable of Boole 's admirers and followers , and after his death in 1864 frequently lectured on " George Boole and his Laws of Thought .
" In 1868 he went to be the pastor of the oldest Congregational church in ( Bond Street ) Leicester .
He was there four years , and took a very active part in the life of the town .
He served on the Executive Committee of the National Education League , an office which brought him into association with the Bight Hon. Joseph Chamberlain , for whom he entertained a high regard .
He was elected a member of the first Leicester School Board ; he helped to establish the School of Art ; was an active member of the Free Library Committee ; was honorary Curator of the Museum , and President of the Literary and Philosophical Society .
In the latter capacity he introduced to a Leicester audience as lecturers many of the foremost scientific men of the day , including Huxley , Tyndall and Spottiswoode .
He himself lectured on " The Moon , " " Meteoric Showers , " and many other subjects .
In the summer of 1872 he visited Mill Hill with the object of entering his eldest son at the now well-known school .
The Head Master\#151 ; B. F. Weymouth\#151 ; was so impressed with his energy and capacity that he offered there and then to create for him a position as Vice Master .
This was accepted , and Mr. Harley moved from Leicester and built for himself a house\#151 ; Burton Bank , Mill Hill\#151 ; which became the first boarding house in connection with the School .
The house speedily filled , and for nearly ten years he was Vice Master of Mill Hill and Minister of the Chapel .
Through his efforts the school swimming bath was built , the playing fields improved , and a record in the number of boys established .
Apart from the School he interested himself in the life of the village .
He erected a lecture hall , which was opened by his friend the late Earl Stanhope , and made a centre of instruction and entertainment .
In 1882 Mr. Harley returned to Yorkshire as Principal of Huddersfield College , which post he filled with marked success until 1886 , when he accepted a call to the principal Congregational church in Oxford .
Soon after his arrival the University of Oxford conferred upon him the degree of M.A. ( ihonoris causa ) , on which occasion the Public Orator paid a graceful tribute to his labours in the cause of religion and philanthropy as well as to his attainments as a mathematician .
He took a leading part in founding the Oxford Mathematical Society , and , in 1889 , lectured before the Ashmolean Society on " George Boole and his Logical Method .
" He was compelled to take a rest in 1890 , and , at the instance of a Special Committee of the Congregational Union of England and Wales , he accepted a cabled invitation to take temporary charge of the Mother Congregational Church of New South Wales ( Pitt Street , Sydney ) .
He stipulated beforehand for two months , but he remained for eight months and was Robert Harley\#187 ; iii invited to stay on permanently , but he had left his wife and daughters in England and had no wish to settle down in the Antipodes .
He made a host of friends in Australia , and lectured before the Boyal Society of New South Wales and Queensland , the Union of Sydney University , and many other bodies .
On his return to England he , in 1892 , went once more back to Yorkshire , this time as Minister of Heath Church , Halifax .
In 1895 he retired and bought a house at Forest Hill , S.E. , where he lived quietly and happily for the remaining fifteen years of his life .
He preached and lectured frequently , and advocated total abstinence incessantly .
He was , in fact , one of the pioneers of the Temperance movement .
At the British Association he often presided at the Temperance breakfast .
He was a Vice-President of the National Temperance League for thirty-three years , and only a few weeks before he died a reception was given in his honour by a number of workers interested in temperance , at the Memorial Hall , Farringdon Street , presided over by Sir John Thomas .
On this occasion he gave an address , entitled " Beminiscences of an Octogenarian\#151 ; Chiefly Temperance .
" Although he was over 82 he spoke with much energy and stirring eloquence , exhibiting an intellectual vigour in his old age which amazed his friends .
He was always a keen student of astronomy , and was a Fellow of the Boyal Astronomical Society .
He had an observatory built in his garden for a fine telescope which was presented to him by personal friends .
He was a friend of Herschell , Airy , Huggins , Ball , and other well known astronomers .
On one occasion he visited Lord Boss at Parsonstown .
He was a Life Member of the British Association , and acted as Secretary of Section A in 1868 ( Norwich ) , and in 1871 ( Edinburgh ) .
He was VicePresident in 1873 ( Bradford ) , 1888 ( Bath ) , and 1891 ( Cardiff ) .
Throughout his life Mr. Harley found recreation in mathematical investigations .
These may be said to have commenced with his friendship with Sir James Cockle .
His earliest paper was published in 1851 , and bore the title " Impossible Equations .
" A few years later he became engaged on the problem of the finite solution of the general equation of the fifth degree , which had occupied the minds of the most celebrated analysts of the 18th and 19th centuries .
He and Cockle were in almost daily correspondence for several years , particularly 1858 to 1862 , on the subject .
He approached the problem by seeking to determine in an explicit form a certain sextic equation\#151 ; termed a resolvent\#151 ; on the solution of which that of the general quintic may be made to depend .
It appeared subsequently that Jacobi earlier , and Malfatti even earlier still , had expounded the doctrine of sextic resolvents , but , notwithstanding , much merit remained in the work , for it was independent and lucid .
In particular he devised a new cyclical symbol and a new cyclical function which much simplified and facilitated laborious calculations .
He later extended his researches on the theory of equations far beyond the limits at first proposed .
His results were published in the ' Manchester Memoirs/ the * Quarterly Journal of c 2 [ v Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased .
Mathematics/ the \#163 ; Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society/ and in the ' Philosophical Transactions of the Boyal Society of London/ Brioschi , the well known mathematician of Italy , wrote a paper which showed the relation of some work of Malfatti to that of Harley and Cockle .
Cayley was from the first interested in the work , and made additions in his own masterly style .
He supported Harley 's candidature for the Boyal Society , and he was elected a Fellow in 1863 .
His claims for the distinction were set forth in the following terms :\#151 ; " The discoverer of the new cyclical process and other improved methods of mathematical analysis ; the author of several papers ... .
\#163 ; On Impossible Equations/ ' On the Method of Symmetric Products/ ' On the Theory of Quintics/ ... .
c On Certain Circular Functions/ . . . .
\#163 ; Besearches on the Theory of the Transcendental Solutions of Algebraic Equations/ . . . .
" Among those who supported his candidature were Cayley , Sylvester , Hirst , H. J. S. Smith , Boole and Spottiswoode .
Following these investigations Harley next took up the subject of differential equations , and with the collaboration of B. Bawson and Cockle constructed a theory of " Differential Besolvents .
" Cockle encountered a class of differential invariants which he named " Criticoids .
" These were examined by Harley in a masterly manner .
Harley 's friendship with Boole now had a determining effect upOn the trend of his mathematical thought .
By studying Harley 's results Boole was led to a discovery in the Theory of Differential Equations , which Harley subsequently generalised .
The last paper ever published by Boole was on this subject Phil. Trans. ' ) , and contains a r6sum6 of Harley 's researches down to that date .
On Boole 's death the Editor of the ' British Quarterly Beview ' applied to Harley to prepare an essay on Boole 's life and writings .
This was willingly undertaken , and an elaborate article appeared in the July number of the Beview for 1866 .
He received much help from Spottiswoode ( later President of the Boyal Society ) , who invited him to London that he might have ready access to the British Museum , the Boyal Society , and other libraries .
The obituary notice of Boole for the ' Proceedings of the Boyal Society ' was also written by Harley .
He expounded Boole 's logical method before the British Association in 1886 ( Nottingham ) and in 1870 ( Liverpool ) .
He wrote and lectured on the subjects *of the " Laws of Thought , " and occupied himself with the study of earlier efforts to facilitate the processes of formal logic by the use of mathematical operations .
He spent some time at Chevening , Sevenoaks , the residence of Lord Stanhope , studying the papers and inventions ( including two calculating machines ) of Charles , third Earl Stanhope , F.B.S. ( elected in 1772 at the age of 19 ) .
In 1879 he wrote in the April number of ' Mind ' an article about the Stanhope Demonstrator for performing logical operations ; in his will he bequeathed to the Ashmolean Museum the Stanhope Demonstrator and the Stanhope Arithmetical Machine ( dated 1780 ) , both of which had been presented to him by Arthur Philip , fifth Earl Stanhope ( ob .
1905 ) .
On his retirement Robert Harley .
v he still pursued his mathematical studies , hut he never lived to complete the ' Treatise on Quintics ' which he had begun .
He sat for some years on the Council of the London Mathematical Society , of which he was a member for forty-five years .
When over 80 he would come in every day from Forest Hill to spend his time in the library of the Athenaeum Club , of which he was a member for a long period .
He preached on Sunday , July 17 , 1910 , with no premonition that it was to be his last sermon .
He went off ' to Cromer for a holiday but had to be brought back to his home on Monday , July 25 ; he passed away peacefully the next day , July 26 , 1910 .
He was buried in Ladywell Cemetery .
The Rev. Sylvester Horne , M.P. for Ipswich , and Chairman of the Congregational Union of England and Wales , delivered a memorial address in which he dwelt on his " lovable and striking personality " ; he also read a letter from Sir James Murray to his daughter , in which was said :\#151 ; " Your father had a very wide circle of friends ; very few ' men ever had so many .
In the religious world , in the world of science , in the total abstinence movement and in the sphere of national politics he was widely known and as widely held in esteem .
His annual visit to his beloved Yorkshire to preach Sunday School sermons was almost like a triumphal progress as friends gathered from far and near to hear and see him ... .
Politicians will remember him as an unflinching friend of liberty and equality of opportunity , of unsectarian education and social progress , a man of supreme moral courage who was never afraid to be on the side which was for the moment that of the minority .
He lived a full and an honoured life/ ' It may be added that Mr. Harley 's life was also happy .
He and Mrs. Harley celebrated their golden wedding at Forest Hill in 1904 , when all their four children were seated round the dinner-table .
For fifty years they had been spared a single bereavement ; but the next year the eldest daughter died , and within a few weeks Mrs. Harley followed her .
He was a man of overflowing spirits and merry conversation , and was able to a remarkable degree to inspire confidence and win affection .
He was always a delightful person to meet .
Those who knew him were impressed with the beauty of his disposition .
He showed the kindest and most generous appreciation of the work of others .
If there was a nice thing to be said the opportunity was not missed .
He was one of the most remarkable and most versatile men which the Congregational Ministry has ever produced .
P. A. M. VI JULES HENRI POINCARE , 1854-1912 .
Jules Heniii Poincare* was born at Nancy , April 29 , 1854 .
His father was a medical man who is spoken of as enjoying , in an especial degree , the respect of his fellow-townsmen .
His uncle was the father of the President of the French Republic .
The boy was at the Lycee at Nancy from October , 1862 , until August , 1873 , leaving with the Prix d'Honneur au Concours General en Mathematiques Sp^ciales .
At the age of five he had suffered from a severe illness , and is described as a delicate boy , preferring the society of his sister to the games of his schoolmates .
But any tendency to devote himself too exclusively to a contemplative view of life must , one feels , have received a rude shock from the experience which came to him at the age of sixteen .
Nancy is about thirty miles south of Metz ; his father was called upon in 1870 , as a medical man , to help with the wounded , and the young Poincare attended him as secretary .
So anxious was he to read the only newspapers that were obtainable that he learned to read German for the purpose , so it is said .
In later life he was one of the closest ties between the mathematical world of Germany and that of France .
In 1873 he was first among candidates for the ficole Poly technique at Paris .
Leaving this in October , 1875 , for the School of Mines , he was thence transferred as Engineer to Yesoul , about 80 miles south of Nancy , from April to December , 1879 .
During this year , in August , 1879 , he became Doctor of Mathematical Science in the University of Paris .
In December of the same year he was in charge of the Cours d'Analyse a la Faculty des Sciences de Caen .
In March , 1881 , at the age of nearly twenty-seven , he was honourably mentioned as a competitor for the Grand Prix des Sciences Mathematiques awarded by the Academy of Sciences of Paris .
In October , 1881 , he became Maitre de Conferences d'Analyse a la Faculte des Sciences de TUniversite de Paris .
In 1886 he was Professeur de Physique Mathematique et de Calcul des Probabilites at the University of Paris , and in 1896 Professeur d'Astronomie Mathematique et de Mecanique Celeste .
He was chosen Member of the Academy of Sciences in the Section of Geometry in January , 1887 , served as President in 1906 , and was elected to the French Academy in 1908 .
He became a Foreign Member of the Royal Society in 1894 , and on the inauguration of the Sylvester Medal for Mathematics in 1901 , he received the first award .
He died at his house in Paris in July , 1912 , during the celebration by the Royal Society of its fifth jubilee .
At the funeral ceremony the Society was represented by the Senior Secretary and the Astronomer Royal .
Such , in briefest outline , are the facts of his public career .
To give any * A fairly complete bibliography , with a portrait and various appreciations , is edited by Ernest Lebon ( Gauthier Villars , July 1 , 1909 ) .
To this the writer is much indebted for dates and references .
Jules Henri Poincare .
Vll complete account of his work is a task well nigh impossible on account of its vast range .
His writings deal with nearly every branch of analysis , with every part of theoretical astronomy , and with most of the issues of modern mathematical physics .
To whatever he deals with he brings a breadth of outlook , a wide generality of conception , which stirs the imagination , though it may puzzle the mind .
Of the final value of his applications of mathematics to physics , time will pronounce ; of the importance of the influence which his wide knowledge enabled him to exert , especially in his own country , there can be no question .
His contributions to pure analysis may be classed under differential equations , automorphic functions , general theory of functions , Abelian functions , Analysis Situs , arithmetic .
The work on differential equations includes studies in extension of the general existence theorems given by Cauchy , and consideration , on the lines of Eiemann and Fuchs , of the theory of linear differential equations .
Also a systematic consideration of the utility , as solutions of differential equations , of series which are divergent , and yet asymptotic ; this last , forced upon Poincare 's attention , presumably , by his astronomical studies , has had a wide development .
It is , however , the general consideration of an infinite discontinuous group , in connection with which he refers explicitly to Fuchs , and the associated automorphic functions , which are the best known results of his study of differential equations .
Historically an automorphic function arises among the formulae for elliptic functions which are found in Jacobi 's c Fundamenta Nova .
' Jacobi obtains a series whereby the square of the modulus , k ?
, can be expressed as a single-valued function of the ratio K'/ K of the two so-called quarter periods .
These are solutions of a linear differential equation of the second order whose independent variable is k2 .
Putting f = K'/ K , and k2 = \lt ; f\gt ; ( \#163 ; ) , it is then natural to consider values of f of the form + \amp ; )/ ( c\#163 ; + d ) , in which a , b , c , d are constants .
More simply and precisely , the facts are thus : Let 2co , 2co ' be two arbitrary quantities whose ratio r = co'/ co is not real , but has its imaginary part positive .
Let p ( u ) be Weierstrass 's doubly periodic function with these quantities as fundamental periods .
Then the function which is the ratio of 2p ( co ' ) + p ( co ) to p ( co ' ) \#151 ; p ( co ) is evidently a single-valued function of t. It is in fact unaltered by substituting in it , in place of t , the quantity r + 2 ; or by substituting t/ ( 2t + 1 ) ; or more generally by replacing r by ( pr + q ) / ( rr + s ) in which p , q , r , s are any integers of which q and r are even , such that ps \#151 ; qr = 1 , so that p and s are odd .
There is an infinite number of substitutions of this form ; any two of them performed in succession give rise to a substitution of the same form , so that the aggregate of them constitutes a group of substitutions .
Starting from an arbitrary value of r , whose imaginary part is positive , all the values of r arising by these substitutions have their imaginary part positive ; representing such values of t on the upper half of a plane , in the usual way , a fundamental region of this half-plane can be named which is analogous to the fundamental Obituary Notices of Fellows parallelogram used in the discussion of doubly periodic functions .
Namely , every point of the upper half-plane which does not lie in this fundamental region can be obtained from one , and only one , point of this region by one , and only one , substitution of the group above described .
If rj- \#151 ; p-(- icr , we may take for such a fundamental region the part lying between the lines p = \#177 ; 1 and above the semicircles ( p + ^)2 + a\gt ; \#166 ; 0 .
Poincare 's aim was to study the general properties of such infinite groups of ( fractional ) linear substitutions , and to obtain single-valued functions of the independent variable unaltered when this variable undergoes any substitution of the group .
In both respects he obtained a brilliant success .
It is not easy in a few sentences to give an account of his general theory of the groups ; but it may be possible to make clear the way in which he constructs functions unaltered by a given group .
Let = $r(\#163 ; ) = ( ar\#163 ; + be any one of the substitutions of this group , the constants being chosen so that ardr \#151 ; brcr = 1 .
Denote the denominator cr\#163 ; " -f dT by Ar(f ) .
Let H ( \#163 ; ) be a rational function of \#163 ; and / ir a constant such that prs = psr = prp , s ; let m be an integer .
Consider the sum \#174 ; ( ?
) = r which is to contain a term corresponding to every substitution of the group .
It is then easy to prove that if for \#163 ; we substitute \#171 ; \amp ; *(\#163 ; ) , any one of the transformations of f arising in the group , we obtain \#174 ; [ Mr ) ] =y*[a , ( or-\#169 ; ( 0The proof requires the assumption that the original series converges irrespective of the order in which the terms are taken ; when we consider the generality of the ideas involved , Poincare 's proof that this may be so for proper values of m is one of the most striking portions of the work .
Taking now another such sum as \#169 ; ( \#163 ; ) , having , however , in place of H ( f ) a rational function K(f ) , we shall have a similar equation .
Thus the quotient of the two functions \#169 ; ( f ) is unaltered when the independent variable f is changed by any substitution of the group .
But now arises another consideration .
Eeverting to the function before non cji n p-pprl ' MT ) = [ 2 P ( \lt ; \#166 ; \gt ; ')+ ?
( *\gt ; )]/ [ ?
( *\gt ; ')-2\gt ; ( \#171 ; \gt ; ) ] , for purposes of illustration , we may regard t , or co'/ co .
as the quotient of two independent solutions of a linear differential equation of the second order whose independent variable is This is , in fact , a hypergeometric equation with singular points only at A , = 0 , X = 1 , \ = oo .
If we have any function of the unrestricted complex variable A , of which every existing branch is expressible , in the neighbourhood of any value A0 other than A0 = 0 , or 1 , or oo , as a power series in A\#151 ; \#166 ; A0 , then it can be proved that , by regarding A as that function of the new independent variable r which is Jules Henri Poincare .
ix given by the function above , the function under consideration becomes a single-valued function of t. A particular case of this result is that the dependent variable of any hypergeometric differential equation is a singlevalued function of t , if the independent variable be identified with X(t ) .
These are evidently results of wide scope .
Quite early ( in 1883 ) Poincar^ formulated a demonstration that every analytical function , w = cf\gt ; ( z ) , of an independent variable z , is such that both w and z may be regarded as singlevalued functions of an independent variable f. And both Klein ( in 1882 ) and he ( in 1883 ) have sought to make it clear that any rational algebraic equation f(y , x ) = 0 , connecting x and y , can be satisfied by regarding x and y as single-valued functions of another variable f , the suggestion of particular cases being that the functions can be taken to be automorphic functions in the sense already explained .
To enunciate such a theorem , even though its exhaustive proof is a matter for subsequent investigation as it was in this case , may be to exert a great stimulus to the development of a theory .
It ought , however , perhaps , to be mentioned that unless the equation f(y , x ) = 0 is capable of being satisfied by rational functions , or by elliptic functions , of a parameter , the functions x , y of the new parameter , which are contemplated by the theorem , must possess an infinite number of essential singularities .
The deductions to be drawn from the result must then , it would seem , be of a general character , and independent of the precise form of the functions .
Poincar4 himself returned to the matter in a paper on the uniformisation of analytic functions as late as 1907 ( Acta Math. , vol. 31 ) , and the proof of the theorem has called forth an extensive literature .
There is one matter of subsidiary importance to which a word may be given in connection with Poincare 's theory of automorphic functions .
The division of the upper half of the plane of the complex variable into regions corresponding to the substitutions of a group may be made , as it was in the particular case previously taken for illustration , by means of circles having their centres on the real axis .
Such circles have obviously at least some of the properties of straight lines in a plane ; two such circles intersect in one point ( in the upper half-plane ) ; one such circle can be drawn through two given points .
As straight lines are the curves which render the integral Jcfe stationary , taken between two given points , where ds = ( dx ?
-f dy2 ) % , so the circles in question are the curves which render the integral \ds/ y stationary , y being the ordinate to the real axis and x the abscissa parallel to this axis .
The relations of these circles are , in .
fact , those of the so-called straight .
lines in the geometry of Lobatchewski , the integral Jds/ y , which we may call the separation of its two extreme points , replacing the distance of the Euclidian geometry .
Similarly the integral J\dx die / y2 , which we may call the extent of the region over which it is taken , may be used instead of the area .
Every one of these elements , the circles with centres on the real axis , the separation , and the extent is unaltered by transformations V = \#171 ; +6)/ ( c ?
+ d\ X Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
in which a , b , c , d are real , just as straight lines , lengths and areas are unaltered by movements in Euclidian geometry .
It is thus convenient to make use of these elements in discussing the groups of such linear substitutions .
It is in this sense that Poincare employed non-Euclidian geometry in his discussion of these substitutions .
In addition to the systematic development of the theory of automorphic functions , of which we have given some account , Poincar4 wrote several papers dealing with questions of Abelian functions .
One of the briefest is an application of Kronecker 's theory of characteristics to determine the number of pairs of variables for which two theta functions of two variables have each assigned values .
The same theory is used also by Poincare in his great paper on the equilibrium of a rotating fluid mass ( Acta Math. , vol. 7 , p. 268 , 1885-6 ) .
In Kronecker 's hands the theory becomes an extension of Cauchy 's theorem for integrals of functions of one complex variable to integrals of functions of several complex variables , and is put into connection with the theory of potential in any number of dimensions .
It is interesting , then , to find papers of Poincare dealing with extensions of Cauchy 's theorem to functions of several complex variables , to see the theory of potential in any number of dimensions applied to the theory of integral functions of several variables , and to note how extensive and persistent were Poincare 's attempts to grapple with the problems of Analysis Situs in higher space .
One of the problems to which Weierstrass devoted much consideration was to generalise the expression , as a quotient of two integral functions , of a single-valued analytic function of one variable whose only finite singularities are poles .
Consider a single-valued analytic function of two variables ; assume that about every finite pair of values of these the function is expressible , generally as a power series , but , if not , then as a quotient of two power series , with presumably only a limited range of convergence .
The question is whether there exist two power series , each convergent for all finite values of the variables , as the quotient of which the function can be represented for all values of the variables .
A difficulty arises from the fact that there are points at wffiich the function has no definite value at all , the expressions which represent it having different limits according to the path by which the variables approach the point\#151 ; it is desirable that the representation of the function as the quotient of two integral functions should be such that these integral functions do not simultaneously vanish except at poihts for which the function is actually indeterminate .
Poincare 's papers in regard to the connection of the theory of potential with the theory of integral functions furnish a proof that such a representation is possible , and give rise incidentally to a splendid generalisation of Weierstrass 's factor expression for an integral function of one variable .
The real part of the logarithm of the primary factor ( 1 \#151 ; zlc)e^y wherein yfr , which is introduced for convergence , may , for the purposes of our statement , be left out of account , is the logarithmic potential of a mass at^ the point c. We may thus say that , save for a correction Jules Ilenri Poincare .
xi necessary to secure convergence , the real part of the logarithm of the integral function is built up from the potential of masses situated at the zero points of the integral function .
When we come to an integral function of tw~o variables , its zero points form a continuum .
The integral expressing the potential of this continuum is the guiding portion of the real part of the logarithm of the integral function .
The application of this suggestion to Weierstrass 's problem requires the establishment of the notion of a definite continuum upon which the given function vanishes , and of another continuum upon which the function becomes infinite , and so furnishes a further incitement to the study of hyperspace .
The ideas of which we have attempted to give some account are applicable to another pair of connected problems .
One striking result of the manifold study of Abelian functions in the nineteenth century was the emergence of certain integral functions of several variables , known as theta functions , and , intimately connected therewith , of simultaneously periodic functions .
A function of n variables ui , ... , un maybe such that if appropriate constants co\ , ... , con be simultaneously added to the variables Ui , ... , nn respectively , the value of the function is unaltered .
And there may be 2n sets of quantities such as o\gt ; i , ... , con for which this is true .
The theta functions are not so periodic ; they are integral functions say of u\ , ... , un\gt ; associated with 2n sets of constants such as an , ... , a\gt ; n , so that for the values %-fwi , ... , un + con the function is multiplied by the exponential of a linear function like Ai^i + ... + A nun -j- B. For the theta functions and for the multiply periodic functions which can be formed from them , the quantities such as on , ... , con are connected together by certain bilinear relations of equality and inequality .
The question then arises whether these relations are necessary for every possible multiply periodic function , and , a connected enquiry , whether the most general periodic function is expressible by theta functions .
Even though , as is now the case , these questions have been given affirmative answers , there remains a need of some comprehensive and direct method of arriving at the result .
And the suggestion that this will be associated with some greater insight into the possibilities of Analysis Situs ( in space of 2n real dimensions ) seems inevitable .
Various lines of enquiry are thus opened ; there is evidence that Poincare gave attention to many of these .
With Picard he published a note dealing with the bilinear relations among the periods of a multiply periodic function ; to the properties of integral functions whose second logarithmic differential 'Coefficients are jDeriodic functions , and to the problem of sets of n integrals whose periods are expressible linearly by less than 2n sets , he devoted a long paper .
To his study of the Analysis Situs in any number of dimensions several laborious memoirs bear witness .
The surface imagined by Riemann , it is w~ell known , serves the purpose of representing an algebraic function which is capable of several , say of n , values , as a single-valued function of position upon an w-sheeted surface .
When , however , we seek to Cauchy 's contour integral theorem to integrals of algebraic functions Xll Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
considered on this surface , we are at once met by the fact that it is in general possible to draw closed curves upon the surface which are not capable of being continuously deformed to evanescence , and do not form the complete boundary of any portion of the surface .
Such a circumstance arises also , evidently , for many surfaces ; as for instance for the surface of an anchor ring .
The question arises for such a surface , what is the least number of irreducible closed curves by means of which all others can be represented .
In the case of a surface-utilised in Riemann 's manner for the representation of an algebraic function , the number so arising has the greatest importance for the theory , and is the-most fundamental of the characters used to discriminate between algebraic functions of different individualities .
When we pass from a surface of two-dimensions to a closed space of n dimensions , and therein consider closed spaces of r dimensions , there is a similar question .
Let two such closed spaces of order r be regarded as equivalent when either can be continuously deformed into the other within the given space of n dimensions ; there will be a least number , k , of closed spaces of order r in terms of which every other such space can be represented in the form P = w\amp ; iP i + ... + WfycP fa wherein mi , ... , mk are integers .
And there will be such a number k for each-value of r which is less than n. These so-called numbers of Betti are in fact equal in pairs , the number k for any r being equal to the number k for r ' \#151 ; n \#151 ; r. This theorem requires , evidently enough , much greater precision in defining the meaning of equivalence than we can attempt here .
For instance in the closed three-dimensional space interior to an anchor ring , every closed curve is clearly representable in terms of one such curve ( unless itself deformable to evanescence ) ; and every closed surface in this three-dimensional space , if not itself deformable to evanescence , is deformable to one surface , , whose shape is that of an anchor ring interior to the given anchor ring , so-that the two numbers of Betti are each equal to unity .
It is obvious that two spaces which are capable of being put into point to point correspondence with one another must have the same numbers of Betti .
Conversely , , however , it was shown by Poincare that the equalities of these numbers are not the only descriptive similarities necessary in order that two spaces should be capable of such correspondence .
The theory just referred to .is suggested by the discussion of Riemann 's .
surface .
Riemann 's own theory of the functions arising for such a surface was based upon a theorem of existence of potential functions , for which the evidence was , in the light of subsequent scrutiny , undoubtedly insufficient .
The theorem in question , for which the physical suggestion is extremely cogent , has thence become the centre of a wide literature .
To this also-Poincar4 contributed , with an extensive paper expounding a method of his-own , in addition to which he wrote long papers dealing in general with the differential equations of mathematical physics .
In this survey we have left aside many of Poincare 's discoveries , for Jules Henri Poincare .
xm instance , his brilliant additions to Laguerre 's theory of the class of integral functions , or to Weierstrass 's theory of monogenic functions .
We have 'expounded instead some matters wherein is well seen the great generality and abstractness of much of his work .
If his writings had been limited to his contributions to theory of functions , they would have left an enduring mark .
We pass , however , now to consider in a few lines his extensive publications in the field of Astronomy and Dynamics .
As has been said , Poincare was Professor of Astronomy from 1896 , and , in addition to pure mathematics , he was probably interested from the first also in physical questions .
As early as 1881 , while yet Ingdnieur des Mines , in c Liouville 's Journal ' ( vol. 7 , p. 376 ) , in a " Mdmoire sir les Courbes Definies par un Equation Differentielle , " we find the words:\#151 ; Prenons pour exemple le problem des trois corps ; no peut on pas se demander si Pun des corps restera toujours dans un certain region du eiel .
" These words would seem to give the key to Poincare 's work in Astronomy and Dynamics ; to ascertain whether the theory leads us to expect stability of motion and periodical recurrence of position may be said to have been his constant preoccupation .
The publication of G. W. Hill 's 4 Researches in the Lunar Theory , ' in America , in 1877-8 , seems to have greatly impressed him .
In vol. 1 of the Bulletin Astronomique { 1884 ) he published a paper , " Sur Certaines Solutions Particulieres du Probleme des Trois Corps , " which generalised Hill 's idea of a periodic orbit for the Moon .
And in the Preface to vol. 1 ( 1892 ) of his ' Methodes Nouvelles de la M^canique Celeste , ' speaking of Hill 's contributions to the theory , he says : " Dans cette oeuvre . . .
il est permis d'apercevoir le germe de la plupart des progres que ]a science a fait depuis .
" Many of the leading ideas of his theory of orbits were expounded in his essay " Sur le Probleme des Trois Corps et les Equations de la Dynamique , " which obtained the prize offered by the King of Sweden .
This was finished in 1888 , and published in revised form in 1890 .
In addition to this are to be mentioned the 'Methodes Nouvelles , ' already referred to ( vol. 1 , 1892 ; vol. 2 , 1894 ; vol. 3 , 1899 ) , and the Sorbonne Lectures on Celestial Mechanics ( vol. 1 , 1905 ; vol. 2 , 1907-9 ) .
The dominating idea of the work is the possibility of the existence of solutions of theoretical exactness and of periodic character .
In the case of the Earth and Sun and Moon , regarding the Sun as moving with constant angular velocity in a circle about the Earth and the Moon as moving in the same plane , G. W. Hill obtained , by actual computation , an orbit of the Moon relatively to the uniformly rotating line joining the Earth to the Sun , which is both re-entrant and symmetrical .
Poincare obtains a generalisation of this for any dynamical system in which the differential equations have an appropriate form , of wide generality , by reasoning which is quite general and quite simple ; but this reasoning requires an appreciation of Cauchy 's theorems of existence for the solutions of differential equations ; and it is a -characteristic property of the series which express the periodic solutions that xjv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
they converge .
From the periodic orbit of the Moon Hill obtained , by variation of the equations , an equation for the motion of the Moon 's perigee .
In order to calculate the frequency of its oscillations without solving the equation , he introduced the use of determinants of indefinitely great order .
That Poincar^ should investigate the convergence of the method , and* so set up a new engine of analysis , as an incident to his astronomical work , is characteristic of him .
He further considers in much detail the general method of variation and the quantities which generalise the frequency considered by Hill , and their expansion as power series , as part of his theory of characteristic exponents .
In another direction , also , he adopts the idea , suggested by Hill , of making the periodic solution the centre of the theory , by considering solutions which coincide with the periodic solutions after an infinite time , or did so coincide an infinite time before the present .
These are the so-called asymptotic solutions .
Both the periodic solutions and the asymptotic solutions are particular solutions of the equations , not containing the full number of arbitrary constants .
Whereas the former converge , the latter , when expanded in terms of the small quantities , do not ; they are , however , definitely and formally shown to be capable of use for approximations , in the manner of Stirling 's series for the gamma function .
The interplay between the original equations and the equations deduced by variation is again exemplified in Poincare 's consideration of integral invariants .
In the motion of an incompressible fluid the integral which expresses the volume of any portion of the fluid is unaltered by the motion , if always taken over the same particles of the fluid .
He obtains other integrals having the same property , and considers their relations in many aspects .
That a quantity should contain in its expression a term of the form to , os(mt + h ) is rendered by him as a statement that the quantity , though not remaining for all time of limited magnitude , does yet return infinitely often to within arbitrary nearness of its original value .
This becomes a text for the consideration of dynamical systems with such a property\#151 ; stable d la Poisson .
In particular , a proof is given , as illustrating the theory of integral invariants , that for incompressible fluid in a closed vessel , if we consider the particles occupying at any instant a particular small volume , these particles ( speaking generally ) return infinitely often to this volume .
This theory of integral invariants reappears in Poincare 's recent paper ( Journ. de Physique , January , 1912 ) written in support of Planck 's Theory of Quanta .
But it is impossible not to consider the relation of Poincare 's periodic solutions with the expansions used by practical astronomers , and a large part of his writing deals with this matter .
Series had gradually been introduced containing only sines and cosines\#151 ; that is terms A cos ( nt + h ) , but no terms such as t cos ( nt + h ) , or such as tk , in which the time occurs outside the periodic functions\#151 ; the evident intention being to obtain series which might serve to express the circumstances for all time .
Apparently the possibility of spch series may have been recognised by d'Alembert Jules Henri Poincare .
xv ( cf. E. W. Brown , ' Lunar Theory/ p. 239 ) .
Poincare attributes the series to Newcomb ( ' Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge/ December , 1874 ) , who used them for the motion of the planets , and after him to Lindstedt .
For the case of the Moon Delaunay 's series are to be referred to ( 1860 ) .
Poincare investigates Lindstedt 's series again , and extends their scope ; but he proves that they are not as a rule convergent .
His method of proof is extremely simple , if not wholly convincing for all possible cases .
It may be said to be part of his theory of periodic solutions .
It is related also to his general theorem as to the existence of uniform integrals of the astronomical equations .
He proves , however , that the Lindstedt series are asymptotic , in the sense in which Stirling s series for the gamma function are asymptotic ; they give a rule for writing down a finite number of terms approximating very closely to the functions sought , but the approximation cannot be made arbitrarily close .
To the consideration of these series and the related investigations of Delaunay , of Bohlin , and of Gylden , a large part of the second volume of the 4 Methodes Nouvelles5 is devoted .
In the Sorbonne lectures a different plan of exposition is followed .
Lagrange 's method of successive approximation is first used to obtain expansions wherein the time occurs explicitly outside the periodic functions .
A proof is then given that the terms in which the time enters in this way may be absorbed ; f or if they be omitted they can be re-found from the terms which remain , by a change of variables and subsequent expansion ( ' Leqons de Mecanique Celeste/ vol. 1 , 1905 , pp. 172 , 198 , 268 ) .
There is a further theorem of great importance which , like the proof of the divergence of Lindstedt 's series , occurs in Poincare 's prize essay .
The problem of three bodies has the classical integrals , which belong to any dynamical system , known as those of energy and momentum .
It was proved by Bruns that , apart from and independent of these , the problem allows no other algebraic integral .
To this Poincare adds the theorem that the problem possesses no single-valued integral .
The statement is for certain restricted values of the parameters ; upon these restrictions we need not now enter .
This account leaves aside many matters dealing with the theory of orbits to which Poincare devotes attention , and it does not represent his whole contribution to Astronomy .
For very soon after the publication of the paper dealing with periodic orbits ( Bull .
Astr .
, vol. 1 , 1884 ) Poincare was publishing investigations issuing in 1885 in a great paper ( Acta Math. , vol. 7 ) dealing with the forms of rotating masses of fluid and their stability .
As his investigations in regard to periodic orbits begin with acknowledgments to G. W. Hill , so this paper begins by quoting the results announced by Thomson and Tait in the ' Natural Philosophy/ Without entering into precise mathematics it would seem to be impossible to give here any competent account of Poincare 's work ; the questions of stability involved are still matter of controversy .
Poincar4 considers a series of possible shapes of relative equilibrium , bestowing especial care upon the critical values of the parameters .
He is thus led to consider the possibility of Jacobi 's ellipsoid of xvj Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
unequal axes changing gradually into a shape which may be likened to a pear spinning about a line at right angles to its long axis .
The suggestion is that the thinner portion ( the stalk end ) may gradually become detached .
The reader will find it interesting to turn to the remarks made by Sir George Darwin in presenting to Poincar6 the gold medal of the Eoyal Astronomical Society , in 1909 .
It was a subject upon which no one could speak with greater authority .
Evidently Poincare 's investigation was to him a revelation of intellectual mastery for which he had the profoundest respect .
Besides this work there remains , however , also- Poincare 's work in regard to tides .
It may be sufficient , perhaps , to refer to Sir George Darwin 's brief indication of his concurrence , in this matter , with what is undoubtedly a very common feeling in regard to much of Poincare 's applied mathematics , namely , that the great generality of his methods is apt to militate against any quite immediate application .
Undoubtedly he has no scruple in bringing the most advanced and the most modern theories of pure mathematics into service ; and where such theory is not already in existence he invents it .
When we turn from Poincare 's astronomical work to his work in Physics , we enter upon ground which has already been much trodden .
It may be sufficient to call attention to the large number of volumes of Sorbonne lectures , edited by his pupils , dealing freshly with the whole field of recent discovery and discussion in electricity , optics , thermodynamics , beside those dealing with matters already referred to .
But in addition to all this mathematical and physical work , Poincare was also a prolific writer on general questions of philosophic interest .
How far his contribution to these matters was new , and how far he stated in a brilliant way the critical conclusions which are common to many to-day , it must be for others to decide .
At least , while taking up the humblest and simplest attitude in face of the immensity of the universe , he preached in no uncertain way the dignity of the pursuit of truth .
" Thought is the lightning flash between two infinities of blackness .
But it is the lightning which matters .
" His writings on such matters are accessible to all and of general interest .
It is unnecessary to expound them here .
TI .
F. B. XVII SIR ROBERT STAWELL BALL , 1840-1913 .
Robert Stawell Ball was born at Dublin on July 1 , 1840 .
His father , Dr. Robert Ball , was born at Cove , co .
Cork , in 1802 , from whence he migrated to Dublin in 1827 upon his appointment to a post at the Castle .
Dr. Ball took a keen interest in Natural History , and the Dublin Zoological Gardens are largely due to his persevering and unstinted labours .
He died at a comparatively early age in 1857 , leaving a widow and seven children , three sons and four daughters .
Robert Stawell was the eldest of the sons , who all became distinguished citizens of Dublin , Dr. Valentine Ball becoming the Director of the Science and Art Museum , and Sir Charles Ball the well known surgeon .
After some years at a preparatory school in Dublin , Robert was sent in 1851 to Dr. Brindley 's school at Tarvin , near Chester , where he received his early training in Mathematics from the Rev. Theophilus B. Rowe , afterwards headmaster of Tonbridge School .
He remained at Tarvin till liis father 's death .
In October , 1857 , he was entered as a student at Trinity College , Dublin .
He soon showed his aptitude for Mathematics and won numerous prizes .
In 18G0 he obtained a scholarship and the Lloyd Exhibition .
In 1861 he wTas Gold Medallist in Mathematics , first Gold Medallist in Experimental and Natural Sciences , and University Student .
He competed three times for a Fellowship at Trinity College , but was not successful , the successful candidates on two of the occasions being W. S. Burnside and H. S. Tarleton .
Ball 's interest in Astronomy was awakened by Mitchell 's * Orbs of Heaven , ' a book he read at school at a time when he should have been asleep .
At college he studied Brinkley 's ' Astronomy , ' the ' Principia , ' and the ' Mecanique Celeste .
' In 1865 , at the instance of Dr. Johnstone Stoney , lie was invited to become tutor to the sons of Lord Rosse at Parsonstown .
He accepted the post on the condition that he should have access to the Observatory and the privilege of using the great telescope .
He worked with the 6-foot reflector from January , 1866 , to August , 1867 , making micrometer observations of the positions of small nebulre .
It is pointed out by Dr. Dreyer that he was the first observer with the instrument to correct the observed position angles for the error due to the instrument not being equatorially mounted , but supported at its lower end by a universal joint , the fixed axis of which was horizontal , in the east and west direction .
This procedure , which materially improved the observations , was a natural outcome of Ball 's geometrical instincts .
About this time the application of the spectroscope to the problems of Astronomy was making great headway .
Although Sir Robert Ball took no active part in this , he was keenly interested in it , an interest quickened by a visit to Sir William Huggins ' Observatory at Dulwich .
VOL. XCI.--A .
d xvjjj Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
In 1867 the Royal College of Science was founded in Dublin , and Ball left Birr Castle to become the first Professor of Applied Mathematics and Mechanism .
He was well fitted for this post by his mathematical knowledge and ability and bis experimental skill , but especially by his gift for lucid exposition .
He was one of the first in Great Britain to introduce the system of C.G.S. units in his class teaching .
In addition to his class lectures he gave some evening lectures of a more elementary character , and here showed and developed his genius as a popular lecturer .
In 1871 he published a work on ' Experimental Mechanics/ the outcome of his evening lectures .
This was the first of the many popular books he wrote .
In 1870 Ball read a paper before the Royal Irish Academy on " The Small Oscillations of a Rigid Body moving about a Fixed Point under no Forces .
" This was the first of his many memoirs on the theory of screws .
The whole series was published in a single volume by the Cambridge University Press in 1900 .
A critical account of this important contribution to Mathematics is given at the end of this notice .
In 1874 Ball was appointed successor to Briinnow as Royal Astronomer of Ireland and Andrews Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin .
The Observatory , situated at Dunsink , a few ' miles from Dublin , possessed an excellent 12-inch telescope , the gift of Sir James South .
This had been employed by Briinnow in the investigation of stellar parallax , a branch of astronomy which his predecessor Brinckley had attempted half a century previously .
Dr. Ball decided to pursue this important but difficult research , and commenced with the star 61 Cygni , for which he obtained a result in good agreement with the classical determination by Bessel .
From 1876 to 1881 he prosecuted an active search for stars of large parallax .
In all , 368 stars were examined and the results published in the Dunsink Observations .
In the preface to this memoir he states : " It is , of course , well known that up to the present no parallax of a star has been detected which exceeds one second of arc .
In the majority of cases the parallax is much less , even if it is appreciable .
But when we reflect that not one star out of every 10,000 has yet been regularly examined for parallax , it is obvious that it would be rash to conclude that there are no stars nearer to us than any of those of which we already know the distance .
" The results he obtained were negative , but it was nevertheless of interest to demonstrate that none of the stars presumably near the solar system wrere so close as to have a parallax as great as one second .
The more refined observations of the heliometer and the photographic refractor were showm to be necessary for the measurement of the small displacements of even the nearest stars .
In February , 1892 , Sir Robert Ball succeeded Prof. Adams in the Lowndean Chair of Astronomy and Geometry and the Directorship of the University Observatory at Cambridge .
During his directorate the valuable catalogue of stars , commenced in Adams ' time , was completed and published by Mr. Graham .
A photographic telescope , mounted on a novel plan according to a design by Dr. Common^ was erected for the purpose of carrying on researches in stellar Sir Robert Stawell Ball .
xix parallax .
This instrument was put to very efficient use by Mr. Hinks in observations of the planet Eros in 1900 and 1901 for the determination of the solar parallax , and by Mr. Hinks and Prof. H. N. Russell ( then an advanced student of the University ) for observations of stellar parallax .
Sir Robert Ball maintained an interest in these parallax researches , but left their active prosecution to Mr. Hinks and Mr. Russell .
As a lecturer on Mathematical Astronomy , Sir Robert Ball gave his pupils a lucid exposition of the classical writers on celestial mechanics .
He wrote a text-book on 4 Spherical Astronomy/ intended for the use of University students .
This book contains a chapter on the theory of astronomical instruments , which is of special interest , as showing the geometrical bent of hisjmathematical interests .
Sir Robert Ball rendered great service by his popular books and lectures .
These awakened an interest in astronomy among a very wide circle of readers and hearers .
A lecture which he delivered at the Midland Institute at Birmingham in 1881 attracted particular attention and established his fame as a popular expositor of science .
This lecture , entitled , " A Glimpse through the Corridors of Time , " gave in popular language an outline of Sir George Darwin 's theory of the tidal evolution of the Moon .
As a lecturer he possessed great lucidity and brought abstruse subjects within the comprehension of his audiences .
His delightful gift of humour was always at hand to enliven any dull parts of a lecture and retain the attention of his hearers .
He lectured in most of the large towns in Great Britain and in many cities of the United States and in Canada .
Probably more than a million people have heard him lecture .
Among his many popular books , 4 The Story of the Heavens/ published in 1886 ; 4 The Story of the Sun/ published in 1893 ; and 4 Great Astronomers/ published in 1896 , may be specially mentioned .
They are written in a very pleasant style , and the lives of Astronomers , including those of Hamilton and Adams , his predecessors at Dunsink and Cambridge , are told in a delightful manner .
In 1884 , Ball became Scientific Adviser to the Commission of Irish Lights , in succession to Tyndall , and always took the greatest delight in the annual cruise of the Commissioners round Ireland to inspect the lighthouses .
In 1886 the honour of knighthood was conferred upon him .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1873 and served on the Council in 1897-8 .
He was President of the Royal Astronomical Society , 1897-9 .
In 1868 he married Frances Elizabeth , daughter of the late Dr. W. E. Steele , Director of the Science and Art Museum , Dublin .
He leaves four sons and two daughters .
Sir Robert Ball died at Cambridge on November 25 , 1913 , after an illness which lingered for over two years .
He was a most warm-hearted and kindly man and had a large circle of friends attracted by his genial manner , ready sympathy , and delightful humour .
XX Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Ball 's 'Theory of Screws ' gives a very complete geometrical treatment of the problems of small movements in rigid dynamics , and in that respect is unique among English books .
The small first edition appeared in 1876 .
Ten years later was published the German ' Theoretische Mechanik Starrer Systeme ' of Gravelius , founded mainly upon Ball 's memoirs .
The " twelfth and concluding " memoir in the Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy was dated 1898 , and the large and comprehensive work on the ' Theory of Screws ' was published in 1900 .
The keynote to the whole method consists in the use of the " screw , " consisting of a line in space together with an associated length .
This geometric entity has a double use .
It gives the axis and the pitch of either a " wrench , " representing any system of forces , or of a " twist , " representing the most general small displacement of a rigid body .
The derivative relationships of which the method is built may be briefly described .
Two screws are defined as " reciprocal " when a wrench on one screw does no work for a twist on the other , and so also conversely .
A " principal screw of inertia " is such that an impulsive wrench on it produces instantaneous twist on the same screw .
" Conjugate screws of inertia " are such that a twist on either is produced by an impulsive wrench on a screw reciprocal to the other .
Similarly for the forces of restitution : a " principal screw of potential " is such that a twist on it evokes a wrench on the same screw , and " conjugate screws of potential " are such that a twist on either evokes a wrench on a screw reciprocal to the other .
A " harmonic screw " is such that a twist on it evokes a wrench which produces a twist on the screw itself .
A harmonic twist on such a screw is thus one of the normal modes of oscillation of the body about its position of equilibrium .
These relationships are intimately connected with the " kinetic screw complex , " consisting of the screws for twists on which the kinetic energy is zero , and the " potential screw complex " for which the potential energy is constant .
With this apparatus a thorough investigation is made of the behaviour of a rigid body with any number of degrees of freedom from one to six .
In the case of two degrees of freedom the notable " cylindroid " presents itself , as the cubic surface locus of the screw-axes of all possible twists .
But the cylindroid is used fundamentally through the whole work , and a perspective view of the surface figures naturally as a frontispiece to the volume .
Though not the actual discoverer of the surface ( Hamilton and Plueker had found its chief property earlier ) , Ball certainly counts as its chief patron .
He took always a lively interest in any development of its properties , and a beautifully made model placed in the collection of Cambridge University serves as a memento of its former owner .
If the geometry of the linear complex had developed earlier , its immediate application to infinitesimal rigid dynamics should have followed as a logical consequence ; but the subject was in its infancy , and Ball had to investigate much of the geometry for himself as he progressed .
This he was well able to do , awl he seems to have made independent discovery of some of Sir Robert Stawell Ball .
xxi the theorems of line-geometry .
The conciseness and elegance , in particular , of the treatment of the case of two degrees of freedom by a circular diagram represents evidently his native geometric faculty .
Perhaps some of the later developments seem less natural .
Any general system of bodies is dealt with under the description of a 44 screw-chain " ; but the arbitrary assignment of a definite sequence to the bodies forming the chain seems artificial as a mode of treatment .
In the case of the so-called 44 permanent screws " the terminology at least seems inapt , for the 44 permanence " is only transient .
For a most admirable and appreciative survey of the scope of Ball 's work on screws , reference may be made to a review by Henrici ( 4 Nature/ June 5 , 1890 , pp. 127-132 ) of the German treatise above mentioned .
An excellent account was given by Ball himself in his presidential address to the Mathematical Section of the British Association in 1887 .
He there uses some geometrical abstractions , quaintly personified , , as speakers in a discussion ; and , under this whimsical garb , reveals the essence of his methods very pertinently and clearly .
Through all Ball 's wo ; *k there shows a fine enthusiasm for his subject and a most generous appreciation of the discoveries of others .
In the year 1879 the Royal Irish Academy awarded him the Cunningham Gold Medal , and his name thus occurs in a list which includes also those of Casey , MacCullagh , Hamilton , Jellett , and Salmon .
By his many and excellent contributions to , the geometry of kinematics and dynamics , Robert Stawell Ball assuredly takes an honourable place on the roll of Irish mathematicians .
F. W. D. and G. T. B , XXII LORD STRATHCONA AND MOUNT ROYAL , 1820-1914/ Sir Donald Alexander Smith , Baron Strathcona and Mount Royal , died on January 21 last in the 94th year of his age .
He was a man of very strong personality , who wrought out for himself a striking and remarkable career , achieving success in many different paths , but having ever in view the welfare and progress of the Empire as a whole .
He was born at Forres , in the Scotch Highlands , on August 6 , 1820 , and was the second son of Alexander Smith , a merchant of Archiestown , and Barbara Stewart , whose brother , John Stewart , was a well known fur trader in the North-West Company , having its headquarters in Montreal .
After receiving a good elementary education at the school at Forres , it happened that on one occasion he visited Manchester in company with a friend of the rising young London novelist , Charles Dickens , and made the acquaintance of a wealthy and highly esteemed family of merchants named Grant , who were cousins of the Smith family .
These two warm-hearted men have been introduced to the world under the name of the Cheeryble Brothers by Dickens .
He was about to enter the office of this firm when his uncle , John Stewart , returned to Scotland , and through his influence Donald Smith was appointed to a junior clerkship in the renowned Hudson 's Bay Company , which at that time controlled the greater part of what has since become the Dominion of Canada .
He was 18 years of age at this time .
The passage out to Canada occupied rather more than six weeks , while his return passage to England on the 44 Mauretania " shortly before his death occupied approximately six days .
Upon his arrival he was sent to Labrador , one of the most remote and inaccessible districts occupied by the Company , where he remained for 13 years at one or other of the Company 's posts , engaged in trading with the Montagnais Indians and such Eskimos as inhabited or visited that most inhospitable coast .
He was then promoted to the position of Chief Trader in the Company 's service , and after 10 years more spent on the shores of Hudson Bay he became a Chief Factor of the Company , and in 1868 became Chief Executive Officer of the Company , with his headquarters in Montreal , where he took up his residence , being now 48 years of age .
The fact that the great prairies of Central and Western Canada were suitable for settlement was becoming generally recognised by the people of Canada at this time , and negotiations were opened up in this year for the surrender of the lands of the Hudson Bay Company to the Government of the Dominion of Canada .
When , however , the Deed of Surrender was signed and the agents of the Government proceeded to Fort Garry ( now Winnipeg ) , Lord Strathcona and Mount Royal .
' xxiii the ignorant half-breeds , who with the Indians were the only residents of the eastern prairies at that time , thinking that the Government intended to deprive them of their lands , rose in revolt under a half-breed named Louis Riel , purposing either to establish an independent government or to take steps to have the country annexed to the United States .
Donald Smith was sent to the scene of trouble with a view to explain the situation to the halfbreeds and allay their fears .
Upon his arrival at Fort Garry , he was seized by Riel and held as a prisoner for about two months .
He was , however , so far successful in carrying out his commission that , while the Government found it advisable to send a small expedition under Colonel ( afterwards Viscount Sir Garnet ) Wolseley to the scene of the disturbance , upon the arrival of the troops Riel fled to the United States and the revolt came to an end without a blow having been struck .
Upon the collapse of the Riel rebellion , Donald Smith was elected to represent the constituency of Selkirk , one of the electoral divisions of this newT territory , in the Dominion House of Parliament .
About this time , in the early seventies , the necessity of building a transcontinental railway to open up this great western prairie country and especially to open up communication between British Columbia and the rest of the Dominion became evident .
In fact , one of the conditions under which this colony came into the Canadian Confederation was that such a railway should be built within a period of 10 years after the agreement had been ratified .
At the inception of this great enterprise Mr. Smith strongly advocated the policy that the road should be built by the Government of Canada and not by a private company .
But when both parties who came successively into power failed to make any substantial progress with the work , he recognised that unless some company with the requisite initiative and capital took the work in hand , the project would certainly not be realised within any reasonable time .
In fact , the failure of the Government to carry through this great undertaking which they had commenced left Manitoba and the other prairie provinces without any means of communication by railway with the outside world , and in order to immediately supply this pressing need Donald Smith associated with himself a few other far-seeing men and secured the control of the bankrupt and abandoned St. Paul and Pacific Railway which had been built from St. Paul in the State of Minnesota to a point not far from the Canadian boundary .
This having been done , the road , under the name of the St. Paul , Minneapolis and Manitoba Railway , was completed to Winnipeg , thus giving the needed outlet .
The great development of this road subsequently brought very large financial returns to the gentlemen who had possessed the foresight to construct it .
In 1880 a syndicate was formed to take over the Canadian Pacific Railway from the Government , who had barely commenced the road , and to complete it .
Although Mr. Smith 's name did not appear as one of the contracting parties , it was largely his energy , determination , and financial assistance in times of great difficulty that carried the enterprise to a successful conclusion .
XX[Y Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
" We had , " he writes , " of course , a good deal of anxiety while the work was going on , but we were sustained by the knowledge that it was approved of and supported by Canada as a whole , and that an important step was being taken not only in developing the resources of the country , but also in bringing Canada closer and yet more close to England and our'sister colonies , thus forming a means of cementing together the various parts of the Empire .
" He formally completed the building of the railway by driving the last spike on November 7 , 1885 .
The year following Her Majesty bestowed upon him a knighthood of the Order of St. Michael and St. George ; in 1896 he was created a Knight of the Grand Cross of the same Order , and the following year he was raised to the peerage as Baron Strathcona and Mount Boyal .
Upon the outbreak of the Boer War Lord Strathcona raised in Canada a regiment of mounted infantry , numbering about 600 and recruited largely from the North-West Mounted Police , known as the Strathcona Horse , which was equipped and transported to Africa at his own expense .
They were attached to Lord Dundonald 's brigade .
Lord Strathcona 's generosity knew no bounds .
His benefactions were widespread not only in Canada but also in Great Britain .
Montreal , which was Lord Strathcona 's place of residence during most of his later years in Canada and one constituency of which ( Montreal West ) he represented during two Parliaments in the Dominion House , was the especial object of his munificence .
In conjunction with Lord Mount Stephen he erected and endowed the Eoyal Victoria Hospital in that city in commemoration of Queen Victoria 's Jubilee , which institution has by his will received a very large additional endowment .
His * benefactions to McGill University , of which he was Chancellor , were numerous .
Among these may be mentioned the Boyal Victoria College for Women , the new building which has just been erected for the Faculty of Medicine , and the endowment of the Strathcona Professorship of Zoology . .
Lord Strathcona received the degree of LL. D. from the University of Cambridge in 1887 , from Yale University in 1892 , from the University of Toronto in 1903 , from the University of Durham in 1910 , and from St. Andrew 's in 1911 .
In the year 1900 he was appointed Lord Sector of the University of Aberdeen .
He was elected a Fellow of the Boyal Society in 1904 , and was Honorary Vice-President of the Boyal Society of Canada .
He was also well known as a lover of the Arts , his picture galleries containing well known works by many of the great masters .
Together with Lord Mount Stephen he endowed a Canadian Scholarship in the Boyal College of Music , London , and he subsequently endowed a second Scholarship on his own account .
From the year 1896 until his decease , Lord Strathcona , as High Commissioner for Canada , represented the Dominion in London , a position which he filled with dignity and honour .
His age , his talents , his princely XXV Earl of Crawford .
benefactions , his wide sympathies , his wise and kindly philanthropies , his charming personality , and the admirable manner in which he represented Canada in Great Britain , endeared Lord Strathcona to the Canadian people in a very especial manner , and no one in the Dominion was ever so beloved by all .
He gave a long life to the enlargement of the Empire and the knitting together of its strength .
F. D. A. EARL OF CRAWFORD , K.T. , 1847-1913 .
James Ludovic Lindsay , 26th Earl of Crawford , was born in 1847 .
Among his many scientific and bibliographical interests , Astronomy took the foremost place during his most active years .
He established and maintained at Dunecht , near Aberdeen , an observatory and an astronomical library that can have had few parallels for completeness .
In this work , which began in 1872 , Lord Lindsay , as he then was , worked in fortunate association and rival enthusiasm with David Gill , the son of an Aberdeen merchant , who had then already made his mark upon the science .
The chief instruments were an 8^-inch transit circle , by Simms , a 15-inch equatorial , by Grubb ( at that date a large aperture ) , many spectroscopes , and other physical apparatus .
The library contained many treasures , and bibliographical notes in many of the books testify to Lord Lindsay 's intimacy with them .
One feature of the Dunecht observatory was the issue of circulars in which early information of astronomical events , the places of comets , and so forth , was conveyed to a number of other observers .
In 1874 Lord Lindsay , with Gill , organised an expedition to Mauritius to observe the transit of Venus .
The results of the transit were disappointing , but incidentally a large amount of valuable longitude work was performed .
In 1876 , Gill was succeeded in the charge of the observatory by Dr. Ralph Copeland .
In 1880 , Lord Lindsay succeeded to the earldom , and shortly after decided to part with his estate at Dunecht and remove his observatory to Balcarres in Fife .
Circumstances arose which diverted his intention .
On the resignation of C. Piazzi Smyth , the Royal Observatory at Edinburgh , then miserably housed on the Calton Hill , was in danger of extinction .
Lord Crawford saved the situation by offering the whole of his magnificent collection , instruments , printed books , and manuscripts , to the nation , provided that a proper establishment was maintained .
The gift was accepted , and the new observatory on the Blackford Hill was opened in 1896 .
VOL. xci.\#151 ; A e xxvj Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
This terminated Lord Crawford 's connection with Astronomy , but he was always a lover of books , and continued to make other bibliographical collections until his death .
He was also well known as a yachtsman , and , in 1906 , made an extended voyage in the South Atlantic and Indian Oceans collecting specimens of natural history . .
Lord Crawford was president of the Royal Astronomical Society in 1878 and 1879 .
In the former year he was elected a Fellow of our Society .
As Baron Wigan he took an active part in the management of the Public Library at Wigan and enriched it by many valuable gifts .
He died on January 31 , 1913 , and is succeeded by his son .
R. A. S SIR DAYID GILL , K.C.B. , 1843-1914 .
David Gill , son of David Gill , J.P. , of Blairythan , Aberdeenshire , was born at Aberdeen on June 12 , 1843 .
He attended the Bellevue Academy in that city till he reached the age of 14 , when he was sent to the Dollar Academy , where the teaching of Dr. Lindsay imparted to him a love of Mathematics , Physics , and Chemistry .
He proceeded to Marischal College and University , Aberdeen , where his love of science was developed under the inspiring influence of Clerk Maxwell .
In the 'History of the Cape Observatory , ' published only a few months before his death , Gill tells of the pleasure he derived from Maxwell 's teaching .
After lectures , only perhaps partially understood , Maxwell would stay for hours in his lecture room with a few of the best students and discuss points which occurred to him or to them , or show them experiments he was making at the time .
These conversations with Maxwell profoundly influenced Gill , and implanted in him a deep desire for a life of scientific investigation .
This was not , however , realised at first .
Gill 's father , who had a prosperous old-established business in clocks , was anxious that his son should succeed him .
Gill reluctantly consented and entered his father 's business , of which after a few years he took complete charge .
He consoled himself by devoting all his spare time to Physics and Chemistry in a small laboratory he had established in his father 's house .
With characteristic thoroughness , however , he mastered all the details of his business , and to the end of his life kept on his study mantelpiece a beautiful clock made with his own hands .
His special interest in Astronomy began in 1863 .
It occurred to him that a time service in Aberdeen such as Piazzi Smyth had established in Edinburgh would be of great value to the city .
He discussed the matter with David MOFFAT , PHOTO , EDINBURGH oQcU^cC Q(fc .
Sir David Gill .
xxvu Thomson , Professor of Natural Philosophy in King 's College , Aberdeen .
Thomson gave him an introduction to Piazzi Smyth , whom he visited at Edinburgh .
Here he was shown not only the arrangements for the time-gun and ball , but all the instruments of the Observatory on the Calton Hill .
From that day he took a new interest in Astronomy , and , on his return to Aberdeen , proceeded with Prof. Thomson to re-establish the disused " Observatory " of King 's College .
A small portable transit-instrument was unearthed , mounted on its piers and adjusted .
The Observatory possessed a good sidereal clock .
A mean solar clock was added , with arrangements for altering its rate , so that it could be kept within a fraction of a second of Greenwich time .
Contact springs were fitted to it so that electric currents were sent each second , and in this way the turret clock of the college and other clocks in the town were controlled .
When the time service had been got into working order , a Dallmeyer telescope of 3| inches aperture and 4 feet focus was obtained for the College , and Gill made some micrometric observations of double stars .
Although the object glass was good , the mounting was too weak for the observations to be quite satisfactory .
Gill therefore purchased for himself , from the Rev. Henry Cooper-Key , a speculum of 12 inches aperture and 10 feet focus .
He designed an equatorial mounting himself , and had the heavy parts of the instruments made to his own working drawings by a firm of shipbuilders in Aberdeen .
The driving circle , its tangent screw , and slow motion , as well as the declination circle , were made by Messrs. Cooke , of York .
The driving clock , which he made with his own hands , was on the same general plan as Airy 's chronograph at Greenwich .
This was his first experiment in the design and construction of astronomical instruments , and it is interesting to note that in the course of his life he never came across a driving clock which worked more satisfactorily .
The instrument was employed in the observations of double stars and nebulae , and in photographs of the Moon .
One of the latter , which he presented to Sir W. Huggins , has recently come into the possession of the Royal Astronomical Society and is of great excellence .
In 1870 he married Isobel , second daughter of Mr. John Black , Linhead , Aberdeenshire .
They settled in the town of Aberdeen , near the Observatory .
Shortly after their marriage Gill was faced with the alternative of continuing in a prosperous business and working at Astronomy as an amateur after business hours , or of following his own inclinations , and giving this up for a much smaller income and the opportunity of devoting his time exclusively to science .
The decision he took with Mrs. Gill 's full approval and support , and which they never regretted , was to make the pecuniary sacrifice so that Gill 's deep interest in Astronomy might be fully gratified .
The occasion of this change in Gill 's position arose through a friendship which had grown up between him and Lord Lindsay , who was interested in Gill 's photographs of the Moon and afterwards attracted by his scientific enthusiasm .
Lord Lindsay was an enthusiastic amateur astronomer and e 2 xxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
proposed to erect a private observatory at Dunecht .
In 1872 , his father , the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres , wrote to Gill offering him the charge of this observatory .
Gill gratefully accepted the offer , and , when his business affairs were wound up , moved to Dunecht .
Here he was soon engaged on the congenial task of the design and erection of the fine private observatory which Lord Lindsay projected .
The years 1872-74 were busily employed in the equipment of the observatory .
This comprised a 15-inch refractor by Grubb , an 8-inch reversible transit circle by Trough ton and Simms , a 12-inch mirror which Gill had at Aberdeen , a 4-inch heliometer by Repsold , and a number of smaller instruments .
Preparations were also made for an expedition to Mauritius to observe the transit of Venus in 1874 .
In connection with this expedition and the building of the observatory at Dunecht , Gill paid visits to most of the European Observatories .
Thus acquaintanceships were made which ripened in several cases to a lifelong friendship .
In view of the possibility of the British station at Mauritius becoming a central one to which the longitudes of surrounding stations would be referred , Lord Lindsay decided that the longitude of Mauritius should be determined with as much accuracy as possible .
He and Gill proposed to determine the longitude Greenwich-Aden telegraphically , and Aden-Mauritius by the transportation of chronometers .
The section Greenwich-Aden was completed by the chain Greenwich-Berlin-Malta-Alexandria-Suez-Aden .
The time determinations at the intermediate stations had to be made between the arrival and departure of steamers .
A theodolite mounted on a tripod was employed by Gill , and subsequent determinations have shown the great accuracy of the results he obtained with this small instrument .
The carriage of the chronometers was a matter of some difficulty , especially their embarkation and landing at ports where only coloured labour was available .
No less than fifty were hired from the leading makers , very carefully packed and mounted , compared before starting , and then carried with incessant watchfulness from Greenwich-Aden , Aden-Mauritius , and back again .
The main interest of the expedition to Mauritius centres in the heliometer observations of the minor planet Juno , which were made for the determination of the solar parallax .
As Lord Lindsay 's arrival with the heliometer was delayed by unfavourable winds , the observations could not be begun till a week after opposition .
Nevertheless , after a series of observations extending over 12 evenings and 11 mornings , the value 8*77 seconds was obtained for the solar parallax with a probable error +0*041 sec. The discussion of these observations gave Gill a profound conviction of the possibilities of the heliometer for measurements of great refinement , and influenced his future work very materially .
Thus , although the observations of the transit of Venus failed in their direct object , this expedition became the starting point of a method by which the Sun 's distance has since been determined with the highest accuracy .
On the return journey from this expedition Gill obtained his first experiSh ' David Gill .
xxix ence in geodetic work .
While he was at Mauritius , he was invited by General Stone , Chief of the Military Staff of the Khedive , to return through Egypt and measure the base line for the survey which was projected .
With Lord Lindsay 's ready assent , Gill undertook this task , and , with the assistance of the American astronomer , Prof. Watson , who happened to be at Cairo , laid down a base line near the Sphinx , using a base-measuring apparatus belonging to the Egyptian Government constructed by Brunner , of Paris .
The next great piece of work which engaged Gill 's attention was the determination of the solar parallax from the exceptionally favourable opposition of Mars in 1877 .
He was aware of the advantage which a minor planet possessed for this purpose , owing to its having no perceptible disc , but the geometrical conditions of the opposition of 1877 were so favourable that he considered that the opportunity of utilising it was not to be missed .
Although Gill had left Dunecht in 1876 , he had obtained from Lord Lindsay the loan of his heliometer , conditionally upon his obtaining the means to undertake this expedition .
The sum of \#163 ; 500 was provided , half by the Royal Astronomical Society and half by the Government Grant Fund of the Royal Society .
The Island of Ascension was chosen as the station for observation , as its latitude ( 8 ' south of the equator ) made the base line obtained from evening and morning observations of Mars a large one , and on account of the south declination of Mars .
Lady Gill accompanied her husband and wrote a delightful account of the expedition , * which gives a picture of its incidents and anxieties .
They were on the island for seven months .
At first the Observatory was set up at Garrison .
Lady Gill writes:\#151 ; Fearful of losing one hour of starlight we watched alternately for moments of break in the cloud , sometimes with partial success , but more frequently with no result but utter disappointment , and the mental and physical strain , increasing every night , grew almost beyond our strength ... .
when one day David spoke and took away my breath .
He said , " Let us prove how far this cloud extends and find out whether there is any accessible part of the island not covered by it .
" The clouds only came up at night , and Gill could not leave the Observatory at a time so near opposition .
He yielded to his wife 's wish that she should make the necessary exploration .
Lady Gill found a spot in the south-west corner of the island much freer from cloud .
But this was difficult of access .
The surf made landing from the sea only possible now and then , and the transport of instruments which could not be repaired , if injured , over rocky country without roads was not to be lightly undertaken .
On the one hand my husband felt , If I stay here and fail , I shall have failed also in my duty , not having done my utmost .
On the other hand , every night is now of importance , and a week is lost certainly , if I pull down the Observatory , while the slightest accident to an instrument here , with no one to repair it , will be fatal to the * 4 Six Months in Ascension : An Unscientific Account of a Scientific Expedition , by Mrs. Gill .
John Murray , London , 1878 .
XXX Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
expedition .
Yes !
both " ifs " were unpleasant , but the first was intolerable , and after a day of anxious thought David made up his mind that an attempt to reach South Point must be made .
The Observatory was moved without accident to the new site , which they called Mars Bay , and only five days elapsed before successful morning and evening observations were made .
This laborious and difficult enterprise was crowned with success .
The solar parallax was determined as 8*78 seconds , with a probable error of + 0'012 second , a considerable advance on previous determinations ; but Gill 's experience convinced him that for a definitive determination a minor planet must be used , as it was impossible to set a star on the limb of the planet without danger of systematic personal error .
A second important result of the investigation was the clear evidence afforded by comparison of the positions of the reference stars obtained by transit circle observations with their relative positions given by the heliometric measurements that there was among meridian observers a personal equation depending on the magnitude of the star , whose general tendency was to make faint stars late relatively to bright ones .
This " magnitude equation , " suspected by Bessel and investigated to a certain extent by Argelander , is of special importance wherever meridian observations are used in conjunction with others , whether heliometric or photographic .
Its serious consideration dates from this time , and modifications have since been introduced into methods of observing for the purpose of its elimination .
In 1879 Gill was appointed H.M. Astronomer at the Cape .
He possessed unrivalled skill as an observer , was never satisfied with anything less than the most accurate wTork , and spared no pains to avoid all errors of systematic character .
His engineering and mechanical skill added greatly to his qualifications for the directorship of an observatory which needed to be re-equipped .
But the qualities which marked him out for success in this new post were his abounding energy and enthusiasm and his resolute perseverance .
Immediately after his appointment he visited the observatories at Paris , Leiden , Groningen , Hamburg , Copenhagen , Helsingfors , Poulkova , and Strassburg , learning the aims and methods of different astronomers and coming into touch with them .
He was particularly impressed by Winnecke at Strassburg , whom he regarded as the greatest astronomical teacher of the day , and by the earnest band of students whom he had gathered around him .
The Cape Observatory had been founded in 1820 by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty on the recommendation of the Board of Longitude .
Fallows , the first of His Majesty 's Astronomers , established the Observatory on a bare , rocky hill , within sight of Table Bay , and commenced meridian observations of the positions of stars and planets .
He died in 1831 , and was succeeded by Henderson , who in one year made a large number of valuable observations of stars , and whose name is associated with his discovery of the distance of a Centauri .
Henderson was succeeded Sir David Gill .
XXXI by Maclear , whose directorate lasted from 1833 to 1870 ; Maclear added magnetic , meteorological , and tidal observations to the work of the Observatory and commenced the geodetic survey of South Africa .
Stone devoted his attention ( 1870-1879 ) mainly to a great catalogue of 12,441 stars , in which he re-observed all the stars observed by Lacaille in 1763 .
The national character of the Observatory made the continuance and improvement of meridian observations an essential part of the work of the Cape Observatory .
The traditions left by Maclear and Henderson suggested that geodetic investigations and determinations of stellar parallax ought to be carried out .
Researches in both of these directions were in harmony with Gill 's tastes and previous experience .
During his stay at the Cape the whole of this programme was carried out .
Old meridian observations were reduced and published , a newT instrument embodying new and most useful features was installed ; the geodetic survey of South Africa was co-ordinated , and a work of fundamental importance towards the determination of the size and shape of the Earth initiated ; the distances of the Sun and a number of stars were determined with unexampled precision .
In addition , at least three very valuable projects were executed , which were not foreseen in 1879 , the ' Cape Photographic Durchmusterung , ' the ' International Photographic Chart of the Heavens , ' and the establishment of a large telescope for spectroscopic and other work .
To these projects Gill gave both guidance and driving force .
Soon after his appointment to the Cape , Gill bought from Lord Crawford the 4-inch heliometer with a view of commencing forthwith researches on stellar parallax .
In this work he secured the assistance of a young American astronomer , Mr. W. L. Elkin , a pupil of Winnecke 's , who had selected ' The Parallax of a Centauri ' as the subject of his dissertation for his Doctor 's degree .
Elkin went to the Cape in January , 1881 , and stayed there 18 months as a guest of Dr. and Mrs. Gill .
Nine stars were chosen as suitable for parallax determinations on account of their brightness or large proper motion .
Gill and Elkin decided that three of these stars , ol Centauri , Sirius , and a Indi , should be observed by both of them , but using different comparison stars , in order to furnish a check on possible systematic errors .
The results obtained from this arduous and very skilful observing were very valuable .
The distances of a Centauri and Sirius were determined to within a small percentage of the total amount , and Canopus , the brightest star in the sky except Sirius , was found to be at a great distance , not less than a hundred times that of Sirius .
The high accuracy obtained with this small telescope is very remarkable , but its use was found by experience to be hampered by the small field , which limited the choice of comparison stars .
Gill therefore urged upon the Admiralty the desirability of obtaining a larger instrument , and the purchase of a 7-inch heliometer was sanctioned .
This was constructed by Messrs. Repsold , of Hamburg , who embodied in their design a number of improvements and refinements suggested by Gill 's experience .
The instrument was completed xxxii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
in 1887 and housed in an observatory specially built for it .
The programme which Gill set before himself was not so much to determine the parallax of individual stars as to find out what general relationships existed between the parallaxes of stars and their magnitudes and the amount of their proper motions .
Work was therefore first directed on the brightest stars of the Southern Hemisphere .
The actual observations , involving much painstaking and trying work for some hours after sunset and before sunrise , were carried out largely by Gill himself .
One star was wholly observed by Mr. Finlay , Chief Assistant at the Observatory , and two stars were observed by both Gill and Finlay .
In 1897 , Mr. W. de Sitter , a pupil of Prof. Kapteyn 's , joined the staff ' of the Cape Observatory for a short time , and , among other observations with the heliometer , determined the parallaxes of four stars of large proper motion .
The results of the researches on stellar parallax were published in a volume of the ' Cape Annals ' in 1900 .
This contains all the determinations of parallax of stars in the Southern Hemisphere , and comprises the 12 stars brighter than the second magnitude , and 10 stars selected on account of their large proper motions .
The 10 quick-moving stars all proved to be comparatively near , but the brightest stars were found to be at very great distances , except u Centauri , Sirius , and a Piscis Australis , all of which have considerable proper motions .
The accuracy of the work may be said to mark an era in the determination of stellar parallax .
It is exceeded , but not greatly , by the best photographic determinations , but these are made with very much larger telescopes , and , of course , with much less trouble .
This precision is , in part , due to Gill 's great personal skill as an observer , and , in part , to the admirable design of the instrument .
He was not content to make many observations with small apparent error , but investigated , or eliminated , all causes introducing error of systematic character .
The success which had attended the observations of Juno in Mauritius and Mars in Ascension made Gill desirous of using the 7-inch heliometer at the first available opportunity to determine the solar parallax by observations of a minor planet when in opposition .
The solar parallax enters as a coefficient into various terms in the theories of Sun , Moon and planets , and may therefore be deduced from the observed values of these terms .
It is also derivable from the value of the constant of aberration , the velocity of light being obtained from laboratory measurements .
But it was of great importance to determine this fundamental constant by direct geometrical methods , and to show that the value agreed with , or wherein and why it differed from , the value found in less direct ways .
The transit of Venus of 1874 , on which great hopes had been placed and on which very large sums of money had been spent in equipping expeditions to all parts of the world , had proved very disappointing .
The various phases of the transit did not admit of sufficiently precise observation , a fact forcibly illustrated by the different results , 8'76 seconds and 8-90 seconds , derived by Airy and Stone respectively from the same observations .
Looking forward to the available opportunities , Gill found that a favourable opposition of Iris would occur in 1888 and of Victoria Sir David Gill .
XXX11I and Sappho in 1889 .
The co-operation of the Yale Observatory was secured for observations of Iris , and suitable comparison stars were chosen so that simultaneous observations should be -made in the evening at Yale and in the morning at the Cape .
This plan was slightly modified by the addition of the Radcliffe Observatory , Oxford , and the Leipzig Observatory to the schemes , and a number of evening observations were made at Yale for comparison with these .
Between October 10 and December 13 , 1888 , over 1000 measures were made of the distance of the planet from various comparison stars at the four observatories , and were utilised for the determination of the solar parallax .
The resulting value from a discussion by Dr. Elkin was 8*812 seconds , with a probable error of +0*009 second .
Eor the observations of Victoria a very complete programme was devised , involving the co-operation of many observatories .
It was desired to obtain the relative positions of the comparison stars with such accuracy that the error in the resulting parallax arising from the uncertainties in the framework of reference points should be negligible .
Thus the errors would be confined to those of the heliometer measures of the distance of the planet from the stars and to errors in the ephemeris .
Meridian observations of the stars were secured at no less than 20 observatories .
These were combined by Dr. Auwers so as to give the best positions of the stars .
The declinations were sufficiently good , but the right ascensions showed somewhat large discrepancies .
Accordingly a heliometric triangulation of the stars was made by Gill , Elkin and Schur in 1890 .
By this means the weight of the position of the reference stars was largely increased , and the probable error of the final results reduced to +0 03 second .
The actual observations of Victoria were made at the Cape by Gill and Auwers , at Yale by Elkin and Hall , at Leipzig by Peter , at Gottingen by Schur , and at Bamberg by Hartwig .
A preliminary discussion of the observations showed that the errors of the ephemeris computed by the aid of 7-figure logarithms from Leverrier 's tables of the Sun were greater than those of the observations , A new ephemeris was constructed at the office of the ' Berliner Jahrbuch/ using 8-figure logarithms , and paying special attention to the accuracy of the terms depending on the position of the Moon .
The value of the solar parallax derived from the observations of Victoria was 8*8013 seconds +0*0061 second , and it is of interest to note that the Cape observations alone gave an identical result , 8*8014 seconds , with the larger but still very small probable error of +0*0108 seconds .
The observations of Sappho did not form so complete a series as those of Victoria , nor was the ephemeris constructed with the same care .
Nevertheless a very accordant series of observations at the Cape and the four Northern observatories gave the result 8*7981 seconds , in satisfactory agreement with those obtained from Victoria and Iris , and with a probable error of + 0*0114 second .
The final result for the solar parallax found from the three planets was 8*804 seconds , with a probable error slightly less than + 0*005 second .
xxxiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Only one criticism has been urged against the acceptance of this probable error as a measure of the real accuracy of this result .
It was urged by Prof. Newcomb that if the mean wave-length of the light of a minor planet were somewhat different from that of the comparison stars , then atmospheric dispersion would introduce a systematic error into the result .
Gill met this by the assertion that an observer with the heliometer unconsciously matched the different colours of the very small spectra into which the images were dispersed , when he superposed one image over the other .
In support of this contention he chose the very red star , 8 Sagittarii , and had its distance measured from comparison stars when it was at different altitudes by Mr. de Sitter and Mr. Lowinger .
No perceptible effect arising from atmospheric dispersion was detected , and he therefore concluded that the effect must be negligible in the case of Victoria and Iris , which were to the eyes indistinguishable in colour from their comparison stars .
Gill 's value of the solar parallax has been confirmed by the observations of Eros and by a determination made at the Cape from spectroscopic observations of the velocity of the Earth in its orbit .
When the observations of Iris , Victoria , and Sappho were being discussed , it appeared that the residuals showed a period of about 27 days .
This was traced to the lunar inequality of the Earth 's motion round the Sun .
Each month the Earth describes an orbit about the centre of gravity of the Earth and the Moon .
The dimensions of this orbit are determinable from the inequalities in the positions of Victoria , Iris , and Sappho ; and from the dimensions of the orbit the ratio of the masses of the Earth and Moon may be calculated .
In this way Gill found for the mass of the Moon 1/ 81*60 , a value confirmed by Mr. Hinks ' discussion of the observations of Eros .
Although not of the same importance as the solar parallax , this is a more difficult quantity to determine .
The excellence of the determination of the positions of the stars which served as the reference points is the secret of Gill 's success in this work .
There was a thoroughness and completeness which made his research a model , and one which was , in fact , closely followed in the later Eros investigation .
The determination of the mass of Jupiter is a third important research made with the 7-inch heliometer .
This was partly the observational work of Gill himself , and in part resulted from the younger astronomers whose enthusiasm he had kindled .
Before Gill had taken up his appointment at the Cape , Adams had urged on him the need for observations to .
give the latitudes of the satellites of Jupiter , the longitudes alone being determined satisfactorily from eclipses .
As it is not possible to obtain sufficient precision by measuring the positions of the satellites relatively to the planet , Gill adopted a method employed by Hermann Struve and obtained their positions relatively to one another .
In 1891 he made a considerable series of observations and a smaller series was obtained by Einlay .
The most interesting feature of this research is the care employed on the scale value of the heliometer , so that the observations might be employed to give the mass of Jupiter .
A Sir David Gill .
xxxv pair of standard stars whose position-angle agreed nearly with the plane of the satellites was selected , and the scale value of the heliometer corrected by constant reference to these stars .
Their absolute distance apart was derived by relating them to the Victoria triangulation , and found with a probable error of 1 in 100,000 .
The observations were not reduced till de Sitter 's visit to the Cape , when he discussed them , and obtained a very accurate value for the mass of Jupiter , and also determined corrections to the positions of the planes of the four satellites .
The subject was pursued further by Bryan Cookson , who visited the Cape in 1901-2 and again in 1905 , and made a series of observations with the heliometer , while photographs were taken with the astrographic telescope .
In this and subsequent work of de Sitter Gill took great interest , and was anxious that work on these satellites should be continued with large photographic telescopes .
The mass of Jupiter found by de Sitter agreed closely with that derived by Newcomb from the perturbations produced in Saturn and the minor planets Themis and Polyhymnia by the action of Jupiter .
The introduction of the heliometer was a new departure in the history of the Cape Observatory .
Following the procedure established by Airy at Greenwich , the work of the Observatory had till the time of Gill been mainly devoted to meridian observations .
In consonance with the practical aim of being of service to navigation , Airy had made it his first business to determine the positions of Sun , Moon , planets and the brightest stars with all accuracy possible .
This had resulted in a very full knowledge of the movements of the members of the Solar system and served as the basis of tables for the National Ephemerides .
This work is of great importance , but the observations require to be carefully organised and constantly carried on .
There is , however , no finality about it , and it tends to become of a somewhat routine character .
By directing attention to other problems of Astronomy , and at the same time introducing a class of observations which demanded the'greatest skill and care on the part of the observer , Gill gave new life to the Cape Observatory and new stimulus to British Astronomy .
He did not , however , fail to recognise the importance of meridian work .
He had in mind , from the time of his appointment , the improvement and development of Fundamental Astronomy .
In particular , he desired to introduce a reversible transit circle , but this proposal did not meet with any encouragement from Airy and was postponed for a time .
Observations with the non-reversible instrument were continued .
A list of 303 fundamental stars , selected by his friend Prof. Auwers , were fully observed between 1879 and 1885 , as well as Zodiacal stars , reference stars for heliometer and other observations , and stars which , in conjunction with observations at Greenwich , would serve to determine astronomical refraction .
This formed the Cape Catalogue of 1713 Stars for the Epoch 1885 .
The stars observed between 1885 and 1895 were of a similar class ; the results are contained in the Cape Catalogue of 3007 Stars for the Epoch 1890 .
The next work with this instrument consisted in the observations of the xxxvi Obituary Notices of Felloivs deceased , positions of 8560 stars between -41 ' and \#151 ; 51 ?
declination , intended to serve as points of reference for the photographs , taken at the Cape , for the International Astrographic Survey .
After this had been completed observations were begun towards a catalogue of Zodiacal stars , for use in heliometric and other observations in which the differential positions of the Moon or planets are obtained .
For this work the co-operation of a number of other observatories was secured .
Although the results of several of these observatories have been published , the co-ordination of the whole series of observations into a Standard Catalogue has not as yet been made .
During Gill 's directorate the reduction and publication of Maclear 's observations was completed .
Maclear had left a large amount of valuable material with which he had been unable to reduce , but which his successors Stone and Gill have now discussed , thus giving the positions of a large number of southern stars at the middle of the nineteenth century .
While carrying out observations with the old transit circle , Gill kept constantly in mind his scheme for a new reversible transit circle , and steadily worked towards this end and lost no opportunity of advancing it .
The necessary expenditure was sanctioned in 1897 , and Gill devoted his thought to the design and construction of an instrument which should be , as far as possible , free from the systematic errors which are the bane of Fundamental Astronomy .
His great experience and his mechanical and engineering skill fitted him admirably for this difficult task .
The difficulties which have to be faced arise from want of stability of the instrument , due to movements of the ground from changes caused by temperature in the atmosphere of the observing room and the positions of reading microscopes or the divisions of the circle , from uncertainties in the flexure of the telescope , and from personal errors inherent in the methods of observation .
The instrument was designed so as to be reversible on its pivots , thus providing a check on the collimation , and with the eye-end and the object glass interchangeable , so that in the mean of the two positions the astronomical flexure should be eliminated .
Temperature changes were minimised by making the instrument of iron or steel , which had a coefficient of expansion nearly equal to that of glass , and by carefully covering it with insulating material and so protecting it from the heat of the observer 's body and other irregular radiations .
The piers carrying the microscope were iron tanks containing water , so that constancy of temperature was preserved particularly in horizontal layers .
But the most interesting and novel feature of this transit circle is found in the meridian marks .
Permanent marks were obtained at depths of 30-40 feet in the Archaic rock .
Marks on the surface vertically above these were determined optically on the principle of Bohnenberger 's eyepiece , and this provided long focus collimators both north and south of the transit circle , by means of which its shift in azimuth may be readily determined at all times .
This ingenious plan proved very successful and has been copied by several observatories .
For the elimination of personal errors of the observer , he adopted the principle of the travelling wire , and developed the method of employing a Sir David Gill .
XXXVll motor to make the wire move at approximately the rate of the star , the observer having only to keep the image bisected by means of slow motions .
The instrument was not brought into full use till after Gill 's retirement , but the excellent results which were obtained under his successor 's direction were a source of great satisfaction to him .
A remarkable proof of the value of the underground marks was shown by the detection of the movement of the Earth 's pole in azimuth corresponding to the well-known variation of latitude .
In the development of stellar photography Gill took a considerable share .
In 1882 , the comet discovered by Mr. Einlay at the Cape Observatory was photographed by several people with ordinary cameras and without adequate means for following the diurnal motion .
Gill strapped a camera with a 2|-inch Dallmeyer lens of 11 inches focus on the counterpoise of an equatorial telescope , and obtained a series of photographs , interesting as representations of the comet , but specially remarkable for the large number of stars shown on the plate .
The images were in excellent definition over a considerable field and the practicability of constructing star maps by photographic means was clearly indicated .
Gill accordingly obtained from Mr. J. H. Dallmeyer a " rapid rectilinear lens " of 6 inches focus and 54 inches focal length , and , with the assistance of a grant from the Royal Society , commenced in February , 1885 , a photographic survey of the southern sky .
In December of the same year he received from Prof. Kapteyn , of Groningen , a proposal to undertake the measurement of these photographs and the formation of a ' Durchmusterung ' or catalogue of the approximate positions and magnitudes of the stars .
Gill welcomed this offer of co-operation very heartily .
The methods to be pursued were discussed and the plates forwarded to Groningen .
The work was completed most successfully by Kapteyn , who began the measurement in October , 1886 , and completed it in February , 1898 .
The results are contained in three large volumes of the ' Annals of the Cape Observatory , ' and comprise a complete survey of the southern sky between \#151 ; 18 ' declination and the South Pole .
The positions and photographic magnitudes of more than 400,000 stars were determined ; the Durchmusterung has been of the greatest service to astronomers in the southern hemisphere , and has served as a basis of important cosmical discussions by Kapteyn and others .
In December , 1882 , Gill forwarded to Admiral Mouchez a short paper , for communication to the French Academy of Sciences , accompanied by photographs of Finlay 's Comet , expressing his views on the practicability of charting the stars by means of photography .
At this time Messrs. Paul and Prosper Henry , at the Paris Observatory , were engaged in charting the Zodiac .
As they approached the Milky Way the difficulty of the task caused them to consider the possibility of employing photographic methods .
Gill 's communication came at an opportune moment , and they were encouraged by Admiral Mouchez to proceed with the construction of object glasses suitable for this purpose .
Their constructive ability , combined with xxxviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
the administrative skill of Mouchez and the persistence and enthusiasm of Gill , were the foundation of the great international enterprise for cataloguing and charting the whole sky by photographs on the large scale of 1 mm. to one minute of arc .
From its inception in 1887 to the time of his death Gill assisted this scheme in many ways .
He took an important share in the elaboration of the many details of the work itself , and in the correlated meridian observations necessary to give the photographs their greatest value .
He clearly recognised that the ' International Photographic Catalogue ' was a topographical survey which needed to be strongly connected with the principal triangulation furnished by meridian observations .
In this and other particulars the conference held at Paris for the execution of the international chart and catalogue were largely guided by his views .
Gill 's great power of getting a comprehensive scheme carried through is nowhere better shown than in the geodetic survey of South Africa .
But for his influence it is probable that the different States of South Africa would have been content with small local surveys unconnected or at least very weakly connected with one another .
Gill impressed on the Governments of the different States the value of an accurate survey based upon a principal triangulation of such high accuracy that it would be definitive for all future time .
Yery soon after his appointment at the Cape he outlined a scheme for a gridiron system of chains of principal triangulation extending over the Cape Colony , the Orange Free State , Natal , and the Transvaal .
A commencement was made in 1883 by the decision of the Governments of Cape Colony and Natal to make a principal triangulation of these countries as a joint work .
The observing in the field was placed under the direction of two officers of the Boyal Engineers , Captain Morris ( now Sir William Morris ) and Lieutenant Laffan ( now Colonel Laffan ) who entered heartily into Gill 's plans , and amidst difficulties carried out a survey of the highest precision .
The results of this work were published in vol. 1 of the ' Geodetic Survey of South Africa ' in 1896 .
Gill saw that these operations might be made the commencement of a still more comprehensive work of the greatest geodetic importance .
In his own words ( ' Geodetic Survey , ' p. 157 ) : Looking forward to the practical and possible progress of geodesy , the question may be asked , Should not the progress made in geodetic survey in South Africa be regarded as the first step in a chain of triangulation which , approximately traversing the 30th meridian of east longitude , shall extend continuously to the mouth of the Nile ?
The amplitude of such an arc is 65 ' , and by triangulation through the Levant and the islands of Greece , it may be connected with the Roumanian and Russian arc , so as to form a chain 105 ' amplitude extending from Cape Agulhas to the North Cape .
This great project Gill kept constantly in mind and forwarded at every opportunity .
The next stage of the geodetic survey was in a different region .
It became necessary to delimit part of the boundary between German and British South Africa , which had been fixed by treaty in 1890 , as the Sir David Gill .
xxxix 20th meridian , from the Orange River ( latitude 28-|- ' ) to latitude 22 ' .
It was arranged by Gill that the chain of triangles , which passed mainly through German territory in order to avoid the Kalihari desert , should start from Rietfontein , the northern limit of an excellent survey of South Bechuanaland by Mr. Bosnian , and that the latter should be connected at its eastern and western ends with the surveys of the Cape and Natal .
This was completed in 1899 .
The interest of Mr. Cecil Rhodes was secured in the measurement of the great arc along the 30th meridian , and in 1897 the Administrator of Rhodesia sanctioned the commencement .
It was carried forward by Mr. Alexander Simms in Southern Rhodesia as far as the Zambesi .
The outbreak of the war compelled a suspension of the work during 1902 .
In 1903 the work was continued by Dr. Rubin , under Gill 's direction , and was carried forward by 1906 to within 70 miles of Lake Tanganyika , when it was suspended .
Soon after the close of the South African War the geodetic survey of the Transvaal and Orange River Colony was proceeded with .
On Gill 's advice Colonel Morris was put in charge of these operations , his own position being that of Scientific Adviser to the Governments of the two Colonies , so that unity of purpose might be preserved in these surveys and that they should form part of a harmonious whole .
These surveys were completed by the beginning of 1906 and the chain on the 30th meridian was continued northwards as far as the Limpopo River .
Thanks to Gill 's efforts the survey party was kept together , and funds obtained , half from the British South Africa Company and half from scientific societies in England , which enabled the connection to be made with the chain in Southern Rhodesia .
The great arc on the 30th meridian was thus carried from latitude 31 ' 36 ' to 9 ' 41 ' .
As a result of these measurements , utilising 57 latitude stations , Dr. Bahn has shown that the terrestrial spheroid is somewhat greater than that of Clarke , in agreement with a determination by Hayford from the Geodetic Survey of North America .
When Gill went to the Cape in 1879 , the Observatory staff was small , and the only instruments were the transit circle , a 7-inch equatorial , and a photoheliograph .
The grounds , buildings , and water supply were in a very unsatisfactory state , and after heavy rains the road to the Observatory was nearly impassable , so that computers who were not in residence on the hill had to be carried there in carts .
In consequence of Gill 's persistent representations these things were gradually remedied , and sufficient provision made for the suitable maintenance of the grounds and buildings .
The swamp at the bottom of the hill was drained , trees were planted , fences erected , buildings were repaired and extended , so that when Gill left , the Observatory and its surroundings were not unworthy of a scientific institution of its great importance .
To the instrumental equipment were added the reversible transit circle , the 7-inch heliometer and an astrographic equatorial , and the Victoria ( 24-inch ) photographic refractor .
The last of these instruments was a generous gift from Mr. Frank McClean , and was a tribute to Gill 's great achievements xl Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
as an astronomer .
Coupled with the 24-inch is an 18-inch visual refractor .
Objective prisms and a powerful slit spectroscope were included in the gift .
This munificent gift was intended to be in commemoration of Queen Victoria 's Jubilee in 1897 , and although the Observatory and telescope were not completed till a few years later , this date is inscribed on a tablet inserted in the front of the Observatory , which was unveiled by the Governor , Sir Walter Hely Hutchinson , in September , 1901 .
Valuable spectroscopic work has been done with the instrument .
Gill was particularly delighted by the determination of the solar parallax from the changes in the apparent velocities of stars to or from the earth at different times of the year in consequence of the earth 's orbital motion obtained from observations with the instrument by Dr. Halm under the direction of Mr. Hough .
The staff of the Observatory was increased in correspondence with the larger equipment , so that when Gill left the Cape the Observatory was qualified to carry out work of the highest order in many different directions , and was one of the finest Observatories in the world , and of additional importance from its situation in the southern hemisphere .
In 1905 , the year before Gill left the Cape , the British Association visited South Africa .
The invitation to the Cape was largely the result of Gill 's efforts , and his unremitting labour as General Secretary contributed greatly to its success .
He was delighted to welcome so many of his friends to South Africa , among others Sir George Darwin , Admiral Wharton , Dr. Backlund , Prof. Kapteyn and several younger astronomers from England and the Continent .
The meeting in South Africa was signalised by Kapteyn 's announcement of his discovery of star-streams .
Acting on his doctor 's advice that a more bracing climate would be beneficial to him , Gill intimated to the Admiralty his desire to retire in February , 1907 , after 28 years of service , and was granted leave of absence from October .
1906 .
He settled in London and was soon busily engaged in its scientific activities .
He was President of the British Association at the Leicester meeting in 1907 .
He served on the Council of the Boyal Society 1908-9 , and again 1910-11 ; on that of the Boyal Astronomical Society 1907-1913 , being President 1910-12 and succeeding Huggins as Foreign Secretary in 1912 ; and on the Council of the Boyal Geographical Society , 1908-10 and 1911-12 .
He also served on the Council of the British Science Guild , and succeeded Lord Cromer as President of the Besearch Defence Society .
After he had settled in London a large part of his time was devoted to a History of the Cape Observatory with a full and technical description of the new instruments .
This admirable work was happily completed and published a few months before his death .
Gill thoroughly enjoyed the opportunities of seeing his many friends which his residence in London afforded him .
He was constantly consulted by astronomers , particularly as to the design of instruments .
His interests embraced not only the practical branches of Astronomy and Geodesy with which his own work had been more particularly concerned .
He followed with interest the current researches of astronomers in lunar theory , solar and Sir David Gill .
xli stellar spectroscopy , and especially those bearing on the extent and movements of the sidereal system .
Another subject in which he was keenly interested was the manufacture of optical glass for large telescopes .
Nothing gave Gill greater pleasure than to invite his astronomical friends to his house , especially if an occasion was provided by the visit of a distinguished foreign astronomer , and to have a talk about Astronomy .
He found a similar pleasure in the Astronomical conferences he attended , particularly those at Paris in connection with the International Photographic Chart of the Heavens and kindred subjects .
These conferences were a source of great delight to him , because of the opportunities they furnished of personal intercourse with his friends , of finding out what they were doing , and how their work progressed , and in return telling them what he had in hand .
They benefited by his advice and the results of experiences , but still more by the enthusiasm he communicated to them .
Gill 's influence is shown by the number of astronomers who worked in co-operation with him or were guided by him in their choice of work .
Reference has already been made to Auwers , who undertook the discussion of the meridian observations in connection with the solar parallax , to Kapteyn 's co-operation in the Photographic ' Durchmusterung , ' and the parts taken by Elkin , Cookson , and de Sitter in heliometer and photographic observations .
To these may be added Jacoby 's work on the triangulation of the Victoria stars , and that of Innes on the revision of the Cape Photographic * Durchmusterung .
' McClean 's spectra of the bright Southern Stars were obtained by him with the astro-graphic equatorial while he was a guest at the Cape .
The valuable photographic survey of the sky made by Franklin-Adams was largely due to Gill 's encouragement .
In the introduction to his ' History of the Cape Observatory , ' Gill tells of the delight with which he read Struve 's ' History of the Pulkova Observatory ' : There is inspiration to be found in nearly every page of it , for its author had the true genius and spirit of the practical astronomer\#151 ; the love of refined and precise methods of observation and the inventive and engineering capacity .
These words are as applicable to Gill as to Struve .
He loved to make an instrument capable of the most refined measurements , and the pleasure of making observations as accurately as possible counterbalanced the tedium of making similar observations night after night .
His force of character enabled him to triumph over difficulties and carry out great projects .
His enthusiasm and tenacity of purpose communicated themselves to his colleagues and assistants , and his kindness of heart made them devoted to him .
Gill received many honours in recognition of his splendid services to Astronomy .
He was created Companion of the Bath in 1896 , and Knight Commander in 1900 .
He was created Commander of the Legion of Honour ( France ) in 1908 , and Knight of the Prussian Order " Pour le M\amp ; rite " in 1910 .
He was an Hon. LL. D. of Aberdeen and Edinburgh , and Hon. D.Sc .
VOL. xci.\#151 ; a. / xlii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
of Oxford , Cambridge , Dublin , and the Cape of Good Hope .
He was elected a Corresponding Member of nearly all the Scientific Academies of Europe and America .
The Gold Medal of the Boyal Astronomical Society was awarded to him in 1882 , and again in 1908 ; a Boyal Medal of the Boyal Society in 1903 ; the Yalz Medal of the Institute of France in 1882 ; the Bruce Medal of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific in 1900 , and the Watson Medal of the National Academy of the United States in 1900 .
Since his return to London Gill 's health had been excellent , and he thoroughly enjoyed an occasional day 's golf or shooting .
In December , 1913 , he was suddenly seized with pneumonia , and passed away on January 24 , 1914 , after an illness of six weeks .
F. W. D. G. W. HILL , 1838-1914 .
George William Hill was the son of John William Hill and Catherine Smith , and was born in New York City on March 3 , 1838 .
Both his father and grandfather were artists , and he himself was of English and Huguenot descent .
His early education , like that of most of the men of his time in America , gave him few advantages .
In 1846 , when his father moved from New York to the farm at West Nyack , the country was too busy with material development to produce many teachers who could give any but the most elementary instruction , and the country school which he attended must have been inferior in this respect to those of the larger cities .
Even at Butger 's College in New Jersey , to which Hill was sent owing to the exhibition of unusual capacity and from which he took his degree in 1859 , the course probably went but little beyond that now found jin secondary schools .
There , however , he came under the influence of a man whose ideas on education were unusual .
Dr. Strong , according to Hill 's evidence , believed only in the classic treatises ; but little published after 1840 was admitted to his library .
Hill 's sound knowledge of the fundamentals of his subject is doubtless due to this course of reading .
t Hill 's first paper , published in 1859 when he was but 21 years of age and before he had taken his degree at college , is a half-page note on the curve of a drawbridge .
Two years later he showed his capacity in the essay which gained a prize offered by Bunkle 's ' Mathematical Monthly ' for the best solution of a problem connected with the constitution of the Earth .
President B. S. Woodward , who has himself worked much at this subject , says that the memoir is still worthy of careful reading .
G. W. Hill .
xliii In the year 1861 he joined the staff of the 'Nautical Almanac ' office , which then had its headquarters in Cambridge , Mass .
, and for a year or two he worked there and thus had an opportunity for association with some of the ablest men of the time in astronomical science .
But he soon obtained permission to do his work at the home in West Nyack which he never seemed to leave willingly during the rest of his life .
It was there that nearly all his best work was done .
In fact , he was only away from it for one considerable period , and this is covered by his residence in Washington from about the year 1882 until 1892 ; even during that time the summers were generally spent in West Nyack .
In the first ten years after leaving college , Hill only published eight papers , and none of them deal with celestial mechanics in the modern sense of the term .
But from his output after that time it is evident that he had been reading and digesting the newer treatises and memoirs as they appeared .
Delaunay 's two magnificent volumes on the lunar theory were published in 1860 and 1869 respectively , and the methods of that investigator exercised a fascination over Hill for the rest of his life .
The other great lunar theorist of the period , P. A. Hansen , had been explaining his methods for many years before this time , and Hill was probably one of the few men of his time who understood them thoroughly .
He does not seem to have been particularly drawn to them , although they are used in his theories of Jupiter and Saturn with but little alteration .
It is difficult to find many traces of other influences in his work .
His most celebrated meinoir , it is true , is based on one of Euler 's numerous methods , as he himself tells , but after the start he proceeds entirely on lines of his own devising .
The publications which follow his first attempts during this early period exhibit knowledge of theoretical astronomy and the power to handle large masses of numbers rather than any unusual mathematical ability .
In his discussion of the observations of the great Comet of 1858 , which was undertaken to obtain a satisfactory orbit ( 1867 ) , he has to deal with 363 places gathered from many sources .
As usual with Hill , he does not confine himself to the main point but discusses systematic errors between different observatories and those due to the size of telescope used .
His final conclusion is that there is no evidence of any force other than gravitation influencing the motion of the comet .
It is probable that his work on this body was responsible for the next three papers : on the reduction of star places , the determination of the elements of a circular orbit , and the conversion of latitudes and longitudes into right ascensions and declinations , or , at any rate , that it drew his attention to these fundamental problems .
But he was soon to lay them in the background for more original investigations in celestial mechanics proper .
One can see in his published work the gradual approach to this subject .
His tenth memoir is a correction to the elements of the orbit of Venus from observations extending over 33 years .
It is followed by a x\[y Obituary Notices of deceased .
derivation of the mass of Jupiter from the perturbations of certain asteroids , and the calculation of an inequality of very long period in the motion of Saturn .
Shortly before , however , he had been assisting in the campaign which had started some years earlier to get the utmost out of the transits of Yenus in 1874 and 1882 .
Part II of the Papers of the United -States Commission relating to the transits is by his hand : it consists of charts and tables for facilitating predictions of the several phases at any place on the globe . .
The active period of Hill 's work in celestial mechanics began in 1872 .
Between that year and 1877 , when his two chief memoirs appeared , he published eleven papers on various phases of the subject , besides seven others in pure and applied mathematics and the long transit of Yenus calculations already mentioned .
Most of them are quite brief and call for no special mention .
In order that the value of Hill 's contributions to celestial mechanics and more particularly to the lunar theory may be made clear , it is necessary to say a few words as to the condition of the subject at the time they were published .
For 200 years mathematical astronomers , many of them of the first rank , had been devoting their energies to furnishing a complete demonstration of the power of the law of gravitation to account for the motions of all the bodies in the solar system within the degree of accuracy of the observations .
In the third quarter of the nineteenth century it was evident that this demonstration would soon be made .
Leverrier was publishing his tables for the positions of the great planets , while Hansen and Delaunay had completed their work on the Moon .
For the purposes of navigation all needed accuracy had been obtained , and from the scientific side there seemed to be but few matters which needed explanation ; the final polish which a few industrious workers might give was the last step .
There was thus danger that the subject of celestial mechanics might encounter a blank prospect .
The number of investigators began to dwindle .
At the same time , pure mathematics and physics were showing vast territories to be explored , while the discovery of spectrum analysis and the use of the photographic plate attracted many astronomers who earlier would have devoted themselves to the mathematical side of the subject .
From the old point of view this attitude on the part of astronomers was justifiable .
But Hill saw that there were problems other than the mere verification of the law of gravitation by comparisons of theory and observation of the chief bodies in the solar system , which would demand solution .
He also saw , partly from the industrious work of Newcomb on the old and modern obser- .
vations of the Moon , that even the enormous labours of Hansen and Delaunay on the theory of its motion would demand extension and verification if a test of the Newtonian law to the degree of accuracy of the observations were required .
For the former object , a new set of problems must be formulated and a start made towards their solution ; for the latter , a new method of procedure was practically necessary , for it was almost certain that no one G. W. Hill .
xlv would repeat the calculations , which appeared to have been pushed as far as was humanly possible with the adopted methods .
These two sides of Hill 's work are quite distinct , even though they both start from the same memoir .
The older lunar theorists had taken the ellipse as a first approximation , that is , at the start the action of the sun was neglected .
Hill proposed a ' first approximation in which a portion of the sun 's action should be taken into account .
If an examination of Delaunay 's final expressions for the longitude , latitude , and parallax be made , it is seen that the infinite series proceed along powers of five parameters , and that the rate of convergence along powers of one of these , the ratio of the mean motions of the Sun and Moon , is far more slow than along powers of the others , owing to the presence of large numerical factors .
Hill conceived the idea of neglecting all these other parameters and then finding the series in powers of this ratio alone , with all needed accuracy .
He set up the equations of motion , solved them , and gave formulae of recurrence which enabled him to avoid the slow approximation methods which generally advanced the degree of accuracy by only one or two powers of the ratio at each step ; in his method it advances by four powers of this ratio .
The expressions are worked out both literally and numerically , the latter being taken to fifteen significant figures , a number not very much in excess of what is actually required .
As obtained , the co-ordinates are referred to axes which move with the mean velocity of the Sun round the Earth , and in this form the expressions involve the time through its presence in multiples of a single angle .
In the transformations which are necessary to convert rectangular co-ordinates to polars , Hill makes full use of the method of " special values " or , as it is now called , of harmonic analysis and synthesis .
He was always very fond of this kind of transformation , using it much in later years and even attempting to systematise its use when many hundreds of terms were present .
It would be unjust in this connection not to mention the indebtedness of Hill to Leonard Euler , probably the greatest of lunar theorists since Newton .
Euler , as Hill remarks , had had the idea of starting the theory in the same way with moving rectangular axes , and with the same first - approximation , and had carried it out to a considerable extent in his theory published in 1772 and in a later memoir .
The further steps outlined by Euler , and quoted by Hill , consist of the determination , step by step , of the terms arranged in powers of the parameters which had been neglected .
Each step is to consist of the complete calculation with all needed accuracy of the function of the time and the ratio of the mean motions which multiplies each combination of powers of the remaining parameters .
There are several difficulties in following this process .
The chief one , which Hill solved in the memoir on the perigee of the Moon , is the determination of the first new angle containing the time which arises in the second approximation .
In later approximations this angle also involves all the parameters , and other methods are needed to find the new portions depending on them .
Euler possibly foresaw this ; Hill certainly did , but he / 2 xlvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
never carried his work to the degree of approximation which would need them .
The method has been used by the writer for the construction of a complete theory of the Moon s motion .
The expressions for the co-ordinates , referred to the moving rectangular axes , have another property : they form Fourier series and are therefore periodic .
The resulting orbit in this moving plane is consequently closed . .
Recognising this fact , Hill draws the curve .
But he saw that the orbit was of interest apart from its application to the lunar problem , for he immediately proceeds to trace , with some care , orbits for values of the ratio of the mean motions other than that which holds for the actual Moon and Sun .
He thus obtains a family of such orbits .
It is Hill 's idea of the periodic orbit which , developed chiefly by Poincare and G. H. Darwin , has given new life to the whole subject of celestial mechanics and has induced many mathematicians to investigate on these lines .
The treatise of the former , ' Les Nouvelles Methodes de la Mecanique Celeste/ is based mainly on the idea .
Darwin actually traced many such orbits under varying conditions .
There is still another portion of this memoir which has been largely used as a foundation for investigations into the stability of celestial systems .
If the eccentricity of the Earth 's orbit round the Sun be neglected , it is possible to write the relative energy equation in a finite form .
Referred to the same moving axes , the square of the velocity can , in fact , be expressed as a finite algebraic function of the co-ordinates .
Since the square of the velocity can never be negative , this function , equated to zero , gives the equation to a surface which the Moon cannot cross .
As the surface consists of various ovals and folds , we can obtain certain limitations on the path of the Moon and therefore carry forward the question of the stability of its motion one important step .
Hill draws the surfaces for a limited case .
Darwin made extensive use of a similar diagram for a more extended case , and many others have followed on the same lines .
Thus this memoir , of but 50 quarto pages , has become fundamental for the .
development of celestial mechanics in three different directions .
Poincare 's remark that in it we may perceive the germ of all the progress which has been made in celestial mechanics since its publication is doubtless fully justified .
It has sometimes been said that Hill did not appreciate at the time the importance of his work .
Hill was far too modest about his own achievements to lay any such stress on his productions'as has the scientific world .
But it does not require an extended study of his memoirs to see that his vision often went beyond the particular matter in hand .
The second memoir of 1877 , ' On the Part of the Motion of the Lunar Perigee which is a Function of the Mean Motions of the Sun and Moon , ' has already been referred to .
It is essentially a continuation of that part of the researches which deals directly with the lunar problem , although published a few months earlier .
While not so far-reaching from the point of view of future developments , it is even more remarkable as an exhibition of Hill 's powers of analysis .
In it , the determinant with an G. W. xlvii infinite number of elements is raised from a nebulous possibility to an instrument of computation .
Hill 's periodic orbit contained only two of the four arbitrary constants which the complete solution of his differential equations requires .
He , therefore , proceeds to find an orbit\#151 ; no longer periodic\#151 ; differing slightly from the periodic orbit but still satisfying the differential equations to the first power of the small variation .
The equations obtained are two of the second order and linear with respect to the two unknown dependent variables .
An able analysis with the use of known integrals enables him to reduce the solution to that of one of the second order in the normal form\#151 ; *+ Up = ' , where Y is a known Fourier series depending on the time .
Knowing the form of the solution\#151 ; p = Saccos { c(\#163 ; \#151 ; ti ) + 2i{n \#151 ; n'){t\#151 ; \#163 ; 0 ) } from previous work in the lunar theory and which he justifies by general considerations , Hill substitutes and obtains an infinite series of linear equations for the determination of the unknowns But c is also unknown and it does not enter in a linear form .
The cti are eliminated by means of a determinant with an infinite number of rows and columns equated to zero ; this is therefore a determinantal equation to find c , the main object of the investigation .
Then follows a remarkable series of operations .
The determinant is reduced to a convergent form ( though it was left to Poincare to furnish the proof of convergence ) by dividing each row by a suitable factor which reduced every element of the principal diagonal to unity .
Next , the unknown , c , must be isolated ; Hill achieves this by recognising that if c be a root so must c + 2i be also a root and that , therefore , all the roots can be expressed by a cosine function .
On the assumption that there are no other roots , he equates the determinant to the cosine function , obtaining the constant by comparing the highest ( infinite !
) power of c on each side of the equation .
A particular value of c ( not a root ) can be inserted in the identity thus obtained .
In this way , Hill reduced the work to a computation of an infinite determinant every element of which is known .
He gives a general method for this expansion which enables him to tell at once the order of the terms neglected when the series is cut off at any place .
Each term of this series , however , consists of singly , doubly , ... , infinite series which must be summed .
The labour at this stage was very great and it caused a corresponding liability to error .
Hill carried it through with complete success in its general form , afterwards substituting numbers and determining c to 16 significant figures .
The principal part of the motion of the Moon 's perigee is immediately deducible from c. President Woodward relates that the determinant was solved during one of two trips which Hill made to the north-west region of Canada ; I imagine , however , that this statement refers to the method to be adopted rather than to the actual computation .
xlviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
The story of these two memoirs is incomplete without a notice of the work of J. 0 .
Adams on somewhat similar lines .
Almost immediately after their publication , a brief paper by him appeared in the 'Monthly Notices ' of the Itoyal Astronomical Society .
He had also taken up Euler 's idea and had obtained the variation orbit as a first approximation .
But he turned to the motion of the node instead of to that of the perigee .
The investigation here follows lines very similar to those of Hill , the solution of the infinite determinant being closely analogous .
It is convenient at this stage to take up Hill 's work rather by subject than in chronological order .
The periodic orbit used with such excellent results in the lunar theory is tried later ( 1887 ) on the motion of the satellite Hyperion as disturbed by Titan and the results applied in a following paper to obtain the mass of the latter .
These were written before the publication of Poincare 's researches .
Only on one occasion did he make it the subject of a theoretical research , and it was then probably stimulated by reading Poincare 's ' Mecanique Celeste .
' As the title , ' Illustrations of Periodic Solutions in the Problem of Three Bodies , ' indicates , it consists of applications to certain bodies in the solar system .
From time to time a paper was published advancing the applications to the lunar theory .
In one , the periodic orbit is extended so as to include the terms which depend on the ratio of the parallaxes of the Sun and Moon as well as on the ratio of the mean motions .
In another the terms dependent on the latter ratio and on the first power of the solar eccentricity are computed .
In still another paper he calculates the expression for the principal part of the motion of the moon 's perigee as far as ra11 literally in order to settle the correctness of Delaunay 's value , which had been questioned as to certain of the earlier powers of to by Andoyer .
Beyond these , he seems to have made no effort to continue the work in this direction .
Possibly this was due to the heavy labour on the theories of Jupiter and Saturn which engaged him at least until 1892 .
In fact , as early as 1888 he stated in a letter to Sir George Darwin that he scarcely expected to proceed with the subject .
His fondness for Delaunay 's methods has already been mentioned .
One of his most valuable memoirs is an application of them to the calculation of the smaller perturbations of the Moon 's motion which arise from the action of the planets and the figure of the Earth .
Hill , using Delaunay 's methods and results , showed , in a short paper on the Jovian evection , that the whole action of the Earth and Sun on the Moon could be treated as known from the start , and that therefore only one approximation was needed in order to get the effect of any disturbance whose square could be neglected .
All later investigators have used this method .
The formulae of Delaunay are literal , while Hill 's final equations for the calculation of the effect of any small disturbing force have the great advantage of well-determined numerical coefficients to .be multiplied by the constants which depend solely on the nature of the given force .
G. W. Hill xlix In an earlier paper he had also shown how the disturbing function for direct planetary action can be expressed as a series of products , one factor in each product containing the co-ordinates of the Earth and Moon only , while the other contained those of the Earth and planet only .
The former could , therefore , be computed once for all ; it was the latter which required separate computations for each planet .
This paper has also formed the basis for all the complete calculations of the planetary disturbing forces which have been made since its publication in 1883 .
But Hill 's most extensive application of Delaunay 's theory is made in its original form to the calculation of the inequalities produced by the figure of the Earth .
While he carried these to the degree of accuracy needed for observation , the method appears to be somewhat long and complicated .
It has to be applied in a literal form , and this requires expansions which converge very slowly .
As a matter of fact , a few days ' work with the methods which he adopted for the planetary terms will furnish the inequalities with all needed accuracy .
In the first part of this paper Hill , not content with the values for the flattening of the Earth which were then in use , deduced one directly from a large number of pendulum observations all over the Earth .
The result , 1/ 288 , is considerably larger than most of the other determinations , and notably so than that of Helmert , 1/ 298 , deduced from the same class of observations .
The memoir occupies over 140 pages , and must have demanded an enormous amount of careful and accurate algebraic computation .
To complete the account of his work on the lunar theory , mention must be made of his calculation , by de Pontecoulant 's method , of the principal inequalities produced by the motion of the ecliptic .
Hansen was the only writer who had found the term in longitude as well as in latitude , and nearly all his calculations of the small perturbations are doubtful .
Hill , of course , obtained correct results as far as he went in the matter .
Newcomb , who had taken charge of the American Ephemeris in 1877 , soon induced Hill to undertake the theories of Jupiter and Saturn , and so give material assistance in his plan of forming new tables of the planets .
The method adopted is that of Hansen with only a slight modification , which consisted in expressing the computations directly in terms of the time instead of using two auxiliary angles .
That he used an old method in preference to devising a new one is perhaps unfortunate , even though the result leaves little to be desired .
Had he taken more time over the preliminary stages we should probably have had something new and original , for Hill was then at the height of his powers as a mathematician .
But he was doubtless under some pressure from Newcomb , who wished to complete his great plan during his tenancy of the office of director , and Hill himself may have desired to finish the calculations as soon as possible in order that he might return to West Nyack .
However this may be , he completed the task successfully , as may be judged from the small residuals which he obtains after a comparison with observations extending over 150 years .
The Tables which he formed from the theories of the two planets are now used in most of the national ephemerides Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
In 1882 , Hill published a memoir of some length on Gauss 's method for computing the secular perturbations of the planets .
Gauss had outlined only the general idea .
Hill takes it up and develops in detail the formulae to be used .
In the course of the work he finds that a considerable portion of the calculation depends on three elliptic integrals which may be needed for values of the argument up to 50 ' .
Consequently , a large part of the paper consists of the tabulation of these to eight places of decimals at intervals of a tenth of a degree ; the first and second differences are also printed so that the Tables are in form ready for interpolation .
As an example , he computed the secular perturbations of Mercury by Yenus with great accuracy .
Two further papers on the same subject appeared in 1901 .
In these years Hill published a number of short papers in the ' Analyst , ' a journal no longer in existence .
Sometimes they are merely solutions of well-known problems , at other times simplifications of proofs of theorems which had evidently presented difficulties to him and which he felt needed elucidation or elaboration\#151 ; two favourite words with him .
But Hill was not a great expositor : even for those familiar with the subject his work is often difficult and sometimes obscure .
Newcomb used to say that if Hill had only the faculty of explaining his own ideas he might have avoided many an error and saved much time .
Hill 's ability to assimilate and extend the work of his predecessors , at any rate in his earlier days , doubtless prevented him from appreciating the difficulties of others .
When the reader is used to Hill 's style of composition and his general plans in writing out what he had to say , his arguments are much more easily grasped , but he is rarely anything else than concise .
In his last years Hill still continued to publish , in spite of failing health .
He covered a variety of topics , several of them quite away from the region of celestial mechanics .
One of the most extensive of his papers is a memoir on dynamic geodesy , the last in the fourth volume of his collected works and not previously published elsewhere .
Some later papers on a variety of subjects will appear in a fifth volume , to be published , like the previous four volumes , by the Carnegie Institution of Washington .
If an attempt is made to regard Hill 's work as a whole and to try to find out his point of view , one thing stands out clearly : a desire to obtain exact knowledge about natural phenomena , in however limited a field , which could be expressed in a numerical form .
He never seemed to hesitate about making long calculations , and apparently had a positive liking for obtaining his results to many places of decimals .
But , unlike the tendencies of those who engage much in computation , his mind did not seem to get cramped by figures .
'Not only could he see both trees and wood , to adopt a familiar simile , but could trace paths in the wood and keep his eyes open for roads which led in directions other than that he was exploring .
He had remarkable ability for algebraic manipulation , which*reached its highest manifestation in the memoir on the perigee of the moon .
The more modern sides of mathematics appealed to him but little ; if a formula or a series could be G. W. li reduced to numbers , such questions as convergence did not trouble him much , a point of view which has later been fully justified by Poincare . .
He seemed to take but little colour from the work of others .
Even when , as in many cases , he starts with the results of some previous investigator , his writing shows but little influence of the source of his ideas ; it is individual and carries the reflection and methods of his own mind .
Hill never married .
He lived much alone , but while resident in Washington would take long walks on Sunday , often with one or two companions .
He was fond of botany without being a collector of specimens and found his chief outdoor recreation in the study of nature .
He made two long canoe trips in the north-west of Canada .
A carefully written diary , illustrated with photographs of the second expedition , which took him by rivers and lakes from Lake Superior to Hudson 's Bay , is amongst the books which he left in his will to Columbia University .
He was President of the American Mathematical Society from 1894 to 1896 and served as lecturer on celestial mechanics in Columbia University from 1898 to 1901 .
The manuscript of his lectures shows that they must have , cost him much labour ; it contains long algebraic developments and is apparently intended to'be a more or less complete account of the methods by which the motions of the Moon and planets are calculated .
His numerous honours include foreign membership in the Eoyal Society , the Paris Academy , and the Belgian Academy .
He received the Schubert Prize ( Petrograd ) , the Damoiseau Prize ( Paris ) , and the Gold Medal of the Eoyal Astronomical Society .
He was elected to foreign membership in our Society in 1902 , and received the Copley Medal in 1909 .
His chief characteristic was a single-minded devotion to the subject which he had made his own .
A highly sensitive conscience was always apparent in his dealings with the world : he refused to accept the salary of his lectureship at Columbia one year because no students then appeared to attend the course , and this in spite of the fact that the endowment allowed him absolute freedom to lecture or not as he chose .
In later years he rarely left West Nyack , owing to ill-health .
He died on April 16 , 1914 , from heart failure , and was buried near the graves of his ancestors not far from his home .
E. W. B. lii Obituary Notices of Fellows SIR GEORGE HARES , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , 1831\#151 ; 1915 .
In the death of Admiral Sir George Hares our Society has to regret the loss of a very meritorious scientific officer who had been a Fellow for nearly 40 years .
George Strong Hares came of a literary family , among its members being Archdeacon Hares , the author of the best life of Lord Burleigh .
Born in 1831 , young Hares entered the Havy in 1845 , and served first on board the " Canopus , " when he saw some feats of seamanship in the Tagus , in the exchange of main yards with the " Asia " flagship , bound for the Pacific .
His next service was on board the " Havannah " in the Pacific , when his scientific training was commenced .
Hares was appointed to the " Resolute , " under Captain Kellett , in the Arctic Expedition of 1852 to 1854 .
He commanded the auxiliary sledge to Lieutenant Mecham , who , next to McClintock , was the greatest of Arctic sledge travellers .
Hares performed this service admirably , going as far as Eglinton Island , where he made a collection of fossil wood , a most interesting geological discovery .
On his return from Arctic service he was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant .
For the next ten years Hares was most usefully employed in surveying and in the work of instruction .
In the " Illustrious " he was " in charge of the training of cadets , again in the " Britannia , " and he had the " Boscawen " training ship .
He wrote by far the best book on seamanship since the days of Darcy Lever , which went through several editions , and was translated into French and Italian .
As a surveyor , in command of the " Salamander " and " Shearwater , " he surveyed Torres Strait , part of the coast of Australia , and the Gulf of Suez with reference to the construction of the canal .
But his best known and most important surveying work was on board the " Challenger " in the expedition which was due to the representations of the Royal Society .
His labours extended over the Atlantic , Indian Ocean , and as far as the Antarctic regions , where he discovered what appeared to be an opening which still remains to be explored .
Hares was recalled from the " Challenger " to take command of a scientific Arctic Expedition , due to the strong representations of the Royal and Royal Geographical Societies .
The Societies desired discovery and scientific research , the Admiralty an attempt to go as near the Pole as possible .
The Smith Sound route was selected as the best for discovery and scientific research , and Hares showed consummate seamanship in forcing the " Alert " through the ice to 82 ' 27 ' H. The results of the expedition were most valuable .
Commander ( now Admiral Sir Albert ) Markham , in his memorable sledge journey , reached a latitude of 83 ' 10 ' 30 " H. The northern coasts of Grant Land and Greenland were discovered for a distance of 300 miles .
A fossil flora of extraordinary interest was one great geological result , and the geology and biology of the region were carefully Sir George Nares .
liii examined through the ability and inexhaustible energy of Colonel Feilden , the naturalist df the expedition .
Captain Nares himself conducted the astronomical , meteorological , magnetic , and tidal observations .
The tides then observed proved the insularity of Greenland .
An outbreak of scurvy made it necessary for the expedition to return after the first winter ; but it had done excellent work and more than justified the exertions of the Eoyal Society in procuring its despatch .
Captain Nares was created K.C.B. for this great service .
Sir George Nares again commissioned the " Alert " in July , 1878 , and was engaged in revising and extending the survey of Magellan 's Strait until March , 1879 .
He returned , to take up the responsible post of Professional Officer in the Harbour Department of the Board of Trade , which he held for 17 years .
He was then for four years Conservator of the Mersey .
Indeed Sir George Nares was in harness , in the service of his country , for a good deal over 60 years .
The enumeration of the work he did is sufficient to establish the position of Sir George Nares as a distinguished scientific officer .
He was a most amiable , kind-hearted man .
Those who were under his instruction always speak of him in terms of affectionate regard , and he was beloved by the officers of the Arctic Expedition .
Admiral Sir George Nares died , in his 84th year , on January 15 , 1915 , and the funeral took place at Long Ditton .
The body of their beloved chief was followed to the grave by six of his old Arctic officers .
C. E. M. VOL. XCI.\#151 ; A y liv SIR JOHN MURRAY , K.C.B. , 1841-1914* Sie John Murray was born on March 3 , 1841 , at Coburg , Ontario .
He came of one of those Scottish families that have done so much for Canada , and , indeed , throughout his life no one would have mistaken him for anything but a Scot .
His father , Robert Murray , an accountant , had left Scotland seven years before and settled in Upper Canada , where during the troublous times of the Mackenzie Rebellion he took an active part in Canadian politics .
John was for a time at the Public School of London , Ontario , and later at Victoria College , Coburg .
When he was seventeen years old he left Canada and , as he has himself reminded us , he then for the first time saw the sea whose problems he was destined to make his own .
When he left that early home , he says , " to find another amongst my relatives in Scotland , I had not yet seen the ocean .
The voyage across the Atlantic made a great impression on me , so different was the salt , rolling sea from the great fresh-water lakes with which I had up to that time been familiar , and I was fascinated by the operations of the officers on the bridge when taking the altitude of the sun at each mid-day .
" On witnessing the rise and fall of the tide for the first time on the West Coast of Scotland , the impression was still more profound .
John Murray found a new home amongst his Scottish relatives , one of whom was John Macfarlane , his maternal grandfather at Coneyhill , Stirlingshire .
He helped his grandfather in purchasing and collecting specimens for a museum , the remnants of which are still exhibited in the Macfarlane Institute at Bridge of Allan , many of the labels being in Murray 's handwriting .
Whilst living with his Scottish relatives he attended the High School , Stirling , and here he showed great interest in science .
He used to pay especial attention to the teaching of Mr. Duncan Macdougall , from whom he learnt the principles of the sextant and how to construct an electric lamp and a battery of 80 Bunsen cells .
Murray remained for a long time at School and College .
In fact , as he himself records , he came to be known as a " chronic student " at the University of Edinburgh .
One thing he would not do , he would not go in for examinations .
He learnt what he wanted to learn , and the mere learning was to him its own reward .
At the University , although in the main he followed the Science course , he was not infrequently to be seen in the lecture rooms of the literary professors and from time to time in those of the theological professors .
Amongst his student friends more than one have made a mark on the theological thought of the last half of the nineteenth century .
Occasionally * In writing this short memoir of my friend I have been greatly helped by Mr. Laurence Pullar , of Bridge of Allan and Bridge of Earn , by Dr. Hugh Bobert Mill , by Dr. J. Sutherland Black and by Mr. James Chumley , who for many years was Sir John Murray 's chief assistant .
Sir John Murray .
lv he even listened to Law .
His Zoology and Anatomy lie studied under Goodsir and Turner , the present Principal , whilst he worked at Chemistry with Playfair and Crum Brown , and at Natural History with Allman .
But undoubtedly the teacher who made most mark upon his mind was Prof. Tait , in whose laboratory he worked for several terms under William Thomson ( afterwards Lord Kelvin ) , Clerk Maxwell , and with his life-long friend , Kobertson Smith , who at that time was Demonstrator to Tait and was writing more than one mathematical paper of note .
Later Robertson Smith became a distinguished Semitic scholar , one of the editors of the 9th edition of the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica , ' and after a theological controversy with the Free Church of Scotland a Professor of Arabic in the University of Cambridge , and , finally , University Librarian .
Tait was then , perhaps , at the height of his reputation and many students of various sorts were attracted to his laboratory ; Sir John Jackson and Mr. Meik , the celebrated engineers , were amongst the young physicists , and curiously enough Robert Louis Stevenson was another .
The last named , however , had no interest in science and used to beguile his demonstrator , Robertson Smith , into theological disputes , so dear to all true Scots .
Murray was always a great individualist , and he worked at what interested him with no eye to examinations or degrees , and although in later life he must have been surfeited with honorary degrees , as a student he passed by the examinations and the consequent degrees and never graduated .
In the year 1868 , in a spirit of adventure and on the strength of having attended medical classes in Edinburgh , Murray accepted the post of surgeon on the whaler " Jan Mayen .
" He left Peterhead in February , and was away seven months .
He saw a good deal of the Arctic regions , explored part of Spitsbergen , and landed at least once on Jan Mayen .
During his absence his grandfather died , and Murray arrived home two days after the funeral to find that\#151 ; unlike Loudon Dodd\#151 ; he had been cut out of his grandfather 's will with less than the proverbial shilling .
It was the experience he gained on this Arctic voyage and during his subsequent work on the West Coast of Scotland in the years 1869 and 1870 which qualified him for his next post .
Murray 's great chance in life came when the Government decided , on the recommendation of the Royal Society , to equip a surveying ship , the " Challenger , " for scientific research and to send her round the world .
" The ' Challenger ' was a spar-decked corvette of 2306 tons , with auxiliary steam to 1234 horse-power , " and was well adapted for the scientific purposes to which she was devoted for four years .
The scientific staff was under the direction of Prof , ( afterwards Sir ) Wyville Thomson , of Edinburgh University , and at first John Murray was not included on it ; but at the last moment , owing to the failure of one who had been chosen , on the earnest advice of Prof. Tait , John Murray was selected for the vacant post .
Tait especially dwelt upon the fact of Murray 's resourcefulness and readiness , and considered he would be a very useful man to have at hand in case of any difficulties ] vi Obituary Notices of Fellows ' deceased .
with natives or other possible sources of trouble .
It was characteristic of Murray to embark on such an enterprise at a moment 's notice , when there was almost no time to get together his scientific or personal " kit .
" But the science of the depths of the sea and the science of oceanography were in these times inchoate .
The first great expedition to investigate the physical , the chemical , the geological , and the biological conditions of the great ocean basins was sent out in 1872 by the Government of this country , then under Mr. Gladstone , and in that year H.M.S. " Challenger " left England with a staff of scientific observers to traverse the salt waters of the globe .
Erom that date until the present time no such complete and organised a staff of scientific observers , helped in every way by the naval officers ( for it was an Admiralty Expedition ) , has left any country for so prolonged and exhaustive an investigation into the economics of the ocean .
The " Challenger " Expedition set a standard\#151 ; in fact it practically established a new science , a science of which Sir John Murray was , in a way , the arch-priest .
The " Challenger " Expedition had predecessors , though on a much smaller scale .
Maury had done a great deal in the way of the study of the ocean , especially in so far as concerned its depth and the ocean currents .
Dr. Wallich on H.M.S. " Bulldog , " surveying the route for the proposed Transatlantic cable , added much to our knowledge , and there were others .
The immediate precursors of the expedition of the " Challenger " were a series of voyages made by the " Porcupine " and " Lightning " under the scientific guidance of Dr. W. B. Carpenter , Mr. Gwyn Jeffries , and Prof. Wyville Thomson .
Dr. W. B. Carpenter took an immense interest in the question of deep-sea temperatures , and read a number of papers to the Boyal Society dealing with all existing data accumulated down to 1870 , and he was one of the leading spirits in stirring up that Society to urge the Admiralty to undertake the " Challenger " Expedition .
At the Admiralty they were aided by the then hydrographer , Admiral G. H. Kichards , who was extremely sympathetic with the work .
As the introduction to the narrative of " The Cruise of the ' Challenger ' recites : " The vast ocean lay scientifically unexplored .
All the efforts of the previous decade had been directed to the strips of water round the coast , and to enclosed or partially enclosed seas .
Great things had certainly been done there , but certainly far greater things remained to be done beyond .
This consideration led to the conception of the idea of a great exploring expedition which should circumnavigate the globe , and , if possible , find out the conditions of life at the surface of the sea , at the intermediate depths , and also at the profound abysses of the ocean .
Sir John Murray 's main interest in the expedition was at first physical and geological rather than biological , though he soon acquired a real knowledge of animals , at any rate in so far as they affected the problems which appealed more nearly to him .
" He was an adept at criticising machines and instruments which plumb the secrets of JJie deep , and as soon as the results of his researches on the Sir John Murray .
lvii bottom of the deep sea had appeared he was recognised at once , and as long as he lived , as the authority on the deposits covering the floor of the ocean .
Sir John was no specialist .
He had ever the widest point of view of the chemistry , the physics , the geology , and the biology of the ocean , and to him these varying sciences always had their full value in the problem which he had made his own .
He was constantly devising new sounding apparatus for bringing up samples of the sea bottom , thermometers for testing the bottom temperature , instruments for registering the pressure at great depths , and other implements which have made our knowledge of the depths of the sea accurate and even minute .
The ship sailed from England , quite at the end of 1872 , with John Murray on board as Naturalist at a salary of \#163 ; 200 per annum .
From the time of its departure Murray gave especial attention to the various oozes and other deposits which compose the floor of the ocean , and at an early period he came to the conclusion that Bailey , Johannes Muller , Count Pourtales , Krohn , Max Schultze and Ernst Haeckel were right when they attributed certain of the minute shells at the bottom of the ocean to organisms which live nearer the surface .
Murray correlated the contents of the surface tow-net with the results of soundings and found a close relation to exist between the surface fauna of any locality and the deposit which lies beneath it .
Amongst other organisms he paid much attention to the curious coccospheres and rhabdo-spheres , as Murray now for the first time called them .
He devised an ingenious method of abstracting these extremely minute organisms from the sea-water by stretching pieces of fine thread through a bucket of salt water and allowing it to stand for the night .
The examination of the threads next morning showed these organisms entangled among the strands .
Another unfailing source of supply of these curious , and still imperfectly understood , organisms was the stomachs of the Salps , whose pharynx , fine as its walls are , allowed these organisms to pass through its narrow-meshed sieve .
' The " Challenger " Report on Deep-Sea Deposits ' by Murray and Renard was published in 1891 .
It was the first attempt to deal with marine deposits as a whole , and became at once the standard book on this subject , a position it occupies to the present day .
It was in every sense of the word " epochmaking .
" The amount of research work entailed in the preparation of this monograph was stupendous ; the detailed microscopic study and chemical examination of thousands of deposit-samples from all parts of the world and from all depths , and of the various constituents contained therein , involved the expenditure of much time and labour .
The terms applied to the various types of deposits , with the exception of " Globigerina ooze , " already in use before the time of the " Challenger " Expedition , were devised by Murray on board the " Challenger , " some of them being subsequently more or less modified in collaboration with Renard .
The nomenclature and classification finally adopted by them have stood the test of time .
Notwithstanding the numerous contributions to the subject published in the interval , and the many attempts to improve upon either the divisions , Iviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
the terms , or the methods originally employed , the " Challenger " Report remains the model and standard upon which all studies of deep-sea deposits are based , and it appears to satisfy all the demands made upon it .
This is conclusive evidence of the abundant foresight , care , and scientific precision brought to bear upon the study of the " Challenger " material and of material collected by other ships up to the time of publication .
Murray came to be recognised as the authority on all matters relating to the floor of the ocean .
His reputation became world-wide , and his advice was solicited on all hands in connection with the fitting out of expeditions and with the scope of deep-sea researches of various kinds .
Needless to say his extensive knowledge and practical experience were freely placed at the service of scientists , and many further additions to our knowledge of the sea and its laws are due to his initiative .
The bottom samples collected by nearly all the surveying ships , cable ships , and oceanographic expeditions of all nations , found their way to the " Challenger " Office in Edinburgh for examination and report , and Murray was thus enabled to bring together a magnificent collection of marine deposits , a collection which is unique in the world .
One may quote here an appreciation of his work given by the well-known Arctic explorer , General Greely .
Writing two years ago in the 'National Geographic Magazine of Washington , U.S.A. , ' General Greely says : " Nearly 40 years since , a distinguished scientist , born on the continent of North America , Sir John Murray , of 'Challenger ' Expedition and fame , and one of the eight honorary members of the National Geographic Society , considered the mooted extent of South Polar lands and finally outlined their logical continental form as the continent of Antarctica\#151 ; a fitting and largely accepted name .
This great feat of constructive geography depended on a few score handfuls of oceanic ooze from the South Polar seas and scanty bits of rocks from scattered lands .
Whatever doubts remained as to the accuracy of Murray 's deductions have disappeared since the cumulative discoveries of Amundsen , Borchgrevink , Bruce , Drygalski , Gerlache , Larsen , Nordenskiold , Scott and Shackleton .
" Secondly , Sir John did much to throw light upon the origin of coral reefs .
At the time of the " Challenger " Expedition Darwin 's theory of subsidence held the field , but Murray , who proved all things and held fast only to that which he conceived to be true , found occasion to doubt its universal application .
The boring at Funafuti , an island which was especially selected alike by the opponents and adherents of Darwin and Murray respectively as a typical place for investigation , clearly proved that Darwin was right in some places ; there is room enough in the world for some coral islands to have been formed by sinking and others by the rising of the earth 's crust .
Darwin himself always admitted , after the publication of Semper 's memoir , that his subsidence theory was not of universal application .
At the time of Murray 's return from the " Challenger " Expedition , Sir Archibald Geikie , O.M. , was Professor of Geology at the University of Sir John Murray .
lix Edinburgh , and Murray then attended his lectures .
Sir Archibald helped him in the preparation of the geological section of the " Challenger " Reports and Murray took an active part in the many excursions which are ever the delight of the geological student .
Sir Archibald has kindly written the following lines :\#151 ; " During the preparation of the geological parts of the ' Challenger ' Reports we had long talks over the problems suggested by the observations made on the voyage .
He was always an original and suggestive thinker in connection with these problems .
Nowhere are his originality and acuteness more conspicuous than in his discussion of the origin of coral reefs .
Up to this time , Darwin 's explanation held the field , though a few observers had challenged its universal application .
But when Murray published his views , in which he combated the proofs of vast oceanic subsidence and held that all the types of coral reef could be accounted for without subsidence and even with local elevation , he effected one of the most striking revolutions in geological theory which have taken place in our time .
When Alexander Agassiz took up the question and made a prolonged series of expeditions over the coral regions of the oceans he brought a vast mass of fresh material in support .
of Murray 's opinions .
While I think it quite possible that here and there Darwin 's explanation may be found to hold , I feel tolerably certain , after Agassiz 's ample succession of explorations , that Murray is right for the general origin of coral reefs over the globe .
" Then Murray 's laborious researches into the nature and distribution of the materials that are accumulating on the ocean floor and his classification of them broke entirely new ground in the Dynamical section of Geology .
Many a long discussion he , Renard , and I had on this subject , and it was a delightful experience to watch how , bit by bit , out of the vast mass of materials collected by the ' Challenger , ' there emerged the clear and impressive generalisations which were embodied in the ' Deep Sea Deposits .
' Murray and Renard , by this remarkable volume , rendered a noble service to Oceanography and to our knowledge of the geological processes now in action in the oceans .
" Murray 's later work on the Scottish lakes is another example of his originality and thoroughness .
He not only planned this work with great skill and wide knowledge but , as it proceeded , he threw into the labours of his associates much of his own enthusiasm and devotion .
" During the time that Murray was seeing the " Challenger " Reports through the press he was engaged with his friend , the late Mr. Robert Irvine , and others , on a series of chemical investigations upon the secretion of carbonate of lime from sea-water by marine organisms and on the part played in this process by the waste products given off during their nutrition .
He also worked at the bacteriology of the deep-sea deposits , developing the work of the Russian oceanographers on the sulphuretted hydrogen bacteria of the lx Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Black Sea .
The series of papers recording these researches appeared in the ' Proceedings ' of the Royal Society of Edinburgh .
The third investigation , referred to by Sir Archibald , on which he embarked in his latter years was that of the bathymetric survey of the freshwater lochs of Scotland .
The Councils of the Royal Societies of London-and of Edinburgh had urged the Government to undertake this survey .
The Government did not feel that this enterprise came within the province of the Ordnance Survey Office nor within that of the Hydrographic Department of the Admiralty , but when Murray wanted a thing done , in the long run it generally was done , and he and Mr. Frederick Pullar in 1896 commenced the work and had already published some papers of importance when by the accidental death of Mr. Frederick Pullar by an ice accident in 1901 , the work was interrupted .
His father , however , Mr. Laurence Pullar , determined tc see the work through , and provided a large part of the funds used for this purpose , and in 1902 a staff of assistants was appointed to resume the survey .
For the next four years the surveying work was vigorously carried on , and some 60,000 soundings were recorded from no less than 562 inland lakes .
Biological and physical observations were also carried on during the two following years , and the results of this , the most careful survey ever carried out on the inland waters of any country , were published in six handsome volumes in 1910 .
One would have thought that three such problems as Deep-Sea Deposits , the Origin of Coral Islands , and the Fresh-Water Lochs of Scotland , would have exhausted the energies of any man , but Sir John seems to have been tireless in his activity .
Besides editing the 50 volumes of the " Challenger " Reports , he was the author of the summary of the scientific results of the expedition in two large volumes .
As he records , " The direction of the whole of the work connected with the publication of the scientific results passed unexpectedly into my hands , and I have done my best under the circumstances to place on permanent record a trustworthy account of the labours of this famous expedition .
It has been my earnest endeavour to complete the publication in a manner worthy of the naval position and the scientific reputation of this great Empire .
Notwithstanding troubles , personal sacrifices and regrets necessarily connected with the work , it has been a pleasure and an honour to have taken part in the explorations and researches which mark the greatest advance of the knowledge of our planet since the celebrated geographical discoveries of the 15th and 16th centuries .
" He was never tired of exploring the sea , and in 1880 and 1882 he took part in two expeditions to explore the Faroe Channel in H.M.S. " Knight Errant " and H.M.S. " Triton .
" He established marine laboratories first of all at Granton on the Firth of Forth , and later on the Clyde at Millport , Cumbrae .
Between 1883 and 1894 he was continuously exploring the West coast of Scotland in his small steam yacht " Medusa , " which was specially fitted for carrying on oceanographical investigations , and in these he was assisted by Mr. J. T. Cunningham , Dr. H. R. Mill , and many naturalists .
Sir John Murray .
lxi He never spared himself , and when he was approaching his 70th birthday he embarked on the " Michael Sars , " a steamer no bigger than an ordinary fishing trawler , with a gross tonnage of 226 and with but 300 h.p. engines , to cross the Atlantic on a scientific expedition , the profoundly important results of which he published in collaboration with Dr. Johan Hjort in the well-known book , The Depths of the Ocean .
' He was very capable of getting on terms with the sailor men , and had a thorough knowledge of the sailor 's mode of life and the sailor 's point of view , and , it may perhaps be mentioned , of the sailor 's vocabulary .
Although he became 73 a few days before the tragedy , he seemed , and was , in fact , a much younger man , " good for at least another 10 years , " as a leading physician , who knew him well , remarked to me some weeks ago .
He took a great interest in the project for establishing a meteorological observatory on the top of Ben Nevis .
He was Secretary of the Committee which raised the necessary funds , and largely through his efforts \#163 ; 5000 was soon collected .
He was one of the Directors of the Observatory until , unfortunately , it was closed a few years ago .
For several years he was a scientific member of the Scottish Fishery Board , and he represented the British Government at the International Fisheries and Hydrographic Conference in Stockholm in 1899 , and he was President of the Geographical Section of the British Association in 1899 .
The same year he delivered the Lowell Lectures at Boston , U.S.A. , and again in 1911 he delivered a second course of lectures at the Lowell Institute .
For many years he ungrudgingly gave his services as one of the Secretaries and Member of the Council and Yice-President of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , and the societies with which he was actively connected are almost as numerous as the honours which in later days were showered upon him .
At the time of his death he was President-elect of the Meteorological Conference to be held in 1914 at Edinburgh , and was actually engaged in making arrangements for a successful meeting the day before his tragic end .
Sir John held strong views on Education .
He had little use for the " grand fortifying curriculum " of the Classics , but I shall never forget how indignant he was with me when a few years ago I was unable to produce at almost a moment 's notice a tutor for his son , who was to be at once " a first-class classic and a thoroughly trained oceanographer .
" His son was then reading for the Previous Examination and embarking on a voyage round the world .
Apart from his science , which would have occupied the entire time of most men , Sir John was latterly also interested in commerce .
A bit of material included among a collection of deep-sea deposits from the neighbourhood of Christmas Island in the Indian Ocean enabled him to recognise that that remote island contained valuable phosphatic deposits .
The island was quite uninhabited , but obviously a source of wealth , and he urged the Government to annex the island .
Ultimately they did so , and Sir John obtained a lease of it along with Mr. Ross , of the Cocos Islands .
A company was formed to develop its resources , and Mr. C. W. Andrews , of Ixii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
the Geological Department of the British Museum , was granted leave of absence for a year , and in 1897-8 he visited and explored the island , Sir John paying all the expenses and presenting the specimens Mr. Andrews collected to the British Museum .
The Trustees in 1900 published the result of the researches in a monograph , which is a most interesting record of the indigenous animals and plants of a lonely oceanic island both before the arrival of civilised man and after .
Sir John himself on several occasions visited Christmas Island , and crossed it from end to end .
Valuable deposits of phosphates were found , water was discovered , clearings were made , a railway laid down , waterworks and piers constructed , aerial haulage erected , and houses built .
The island now maintains a population of about 1500 , composed of Europeans , Colonials , Chinese , Malays , Sikhs , etc. , and a flourishing business is being carried on in the export of phosphates .
Plantations of rubber , hemp , , coconuts , bananas , papaws , cotton , etc. , have been established with more or less success .
Sir John always looked upon this development as an indirect result of the scientific work of the " Challenger " Expedition , and an excellent argument for such research work being carried on by the Government .
He knew that His Majesty 's Treasury had received in hard cash within the past 15 years , in the form of rents , royalties , and taxes , a sum greater than the cost to the country of the Vhole " Challenger " Expedition , and he recalled how , during the time the money was being annually voted for the issue of the " Challenger " publications , many Members of Parliament objected to public money being voted for such a purpose .
To enumerate the various honorary degrees , honorary memberships of learned Societies , medals and decorations of all sorts that Sir John received would occupy too much space .
The more important of them are set out in ' Who 's Who , ' but he always held that they were conferred on the Expedition rather than upon himself .
In stature Sir John was short , broad shouldered , with a finely poised , distinguished head .
His complexion was fair and his blue eyes piercing .
His was a personality that could not be overlooked in any company .
He was at times brusque , rather domineering , very confident of his own opinion , and he liked to have his own way , and , indeed , he generally got it , but he was most kind and most helpful to his assistants , and he spent his wealth largely in promoting the advance of science .
He was singularly straightforward and at times almost blunt , but he did not understand or appreciate the methods of the politician .
If he was once your friend he remained your friend .
Rather late in life he married in 1889 Isabel , only daughter of the late Mr. Thomas Henderson , of the well-known Anchor Line of Glasgow .
He was a devoted husband and father , and although he had unconventional ideas about the education of his children he was profoundly attached to them , and was never happy unless he had one or other with him .
Sir John Murray was instantaneously killed in a motor accident near Edinburgh on March 16 , 1914 .
A. E. S. lxiii WILLIAM GRYLLS ADAMS , 1836-1915 .
William Gkylls Adams was born on February 16 , 1836 , at Lidcot , Laneast , Cornwall , being the youngest son of Thomas Adams , who had married Tabitha Knill Grylls , of Budharlick , the owner of a small estate .
Both families had been farmers in the neighbourhood as far back as records can be traced .
The marriage resulted in a family of four sons and three daughters , the eldest son , born in 1819 , being the renowned John Couch Adams , the discoverer of the planet Neptune .
William Grylls Adams was educated at a private school at Birkenhead , and afterwards at St. John 's College , Cambridge , which he entered in 1855 .
He graduated as Twelfth Wrangler in 1859 , and was elected to a Fellowship at St. John 's in 1865 .
After leaving Cambridge he acted for about a year as Vice-Principal of the Peterborough Training College , and then , for three years , as a mathematical master at Marlborough .
In 1863 he was appointed Lecturer in Natural Philosophy at King 's College , London , where the Professorship was then held by Clerk Maxwell .
After Maxwell 's retirement , Adams was , at Easter , 1865 , appointed to succeed him , and he retained the Chair for forty years , till the summer of 1905 .
Adams early recognised the importance for students of Natural Philosophy that they should have the opportunity of taking part in practical experimental work , and , as the result of his efforts , a Physical Laboratory was opened for the instruction of students at King 's College in October , 1868 .
As a professor , Adams made teaching his main occupation , but he by no means neglected original work .
In 1877 he published in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' in conjunction with his pupil , Mr. R. E. Day , an important experimental investigation of the electrical effects produced by the action .of light on selenium .
And previously , in 1875 , a paper on the experimental determination of the lines of flow and equipotential surfaces in conductors of two and three dimensions was chosen as the Bakerian Lecture before the Royal Society .
In this paper Adams followed up and considerably extended the previous work in the same direction of Kirclihoff and Quincke . .
He took an active part in the foundation of the Physical Society of London , of which he was President for the years 1878-80 .
One of his communications to it was an account of a new measuring polariscope .
He was President of the Mathematical and Physical Section of the British Association at the Swansea meeting in 1880 , and was President of the Society of Telegraph Engineers and Electricians ( now the Institution of Electrical Engineers ) for the year 1884 .
In his Presidential Address he gave some valuable results of the experimental measurement of the efficiency of dynamos , carried out chiefly in connection with the Electrical Exhibition held at the Crystal Palace in 1882 .
He also communicated to Ixiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
the Society a paper on the use of alternate current dynamos as motors , chiefly founded on experiments carried out at the South Foreland Lighthouse .
In 1885 he carried out for the Trinity House , at the South Foreland , experiments on the comparative value for lighthouse purposes of oil and the electric light .
He was for many years a member of the Kew Observatory Committee of the Royal Society ( since amalgamated with the administration of the National Physical Laboratory ) , and was also a member of the Board of Visitors of the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
It was probably his connection with these bodies that led to his giving special attention to Terrestrial Magnetism .
He wrote several papers on the simultaneous disturbances of the magnetic elements at different parts of the earth 's surface .
In 1896 he issued a volume in which were collected all the scientific papers published by his brother John , who had died in 1892 .
This was followed in 1901 by a second volume , edited in conjunction with Mr. R. A. Sampson , containing the papers , so far as they could be made available , which his brother had left in manuscript .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1872 , and served on the Council from 1882 to 1884 and from 1896 to 1898 .
As a young man Adams was an enthusiastic mountaineer , and became a member of the Alpine Club as early as 1864 .
Personally , he was a man of the greatest geniality , and full of good-natured fun .
Many must have pleasant memories of the kindly hospitality and hearty welcome which he and Mrs. Adams offered to their many friends at their house in Campden Hill Square .
After resigning his Professorship he went in 1906 to live at Broadstone , Dorset , but continued for some time to come to town occasionally for Royal Society and other meetings .
For the last few years , however , his failing memory obliged him to give up more and more completely all public engagements .
He died at his house at Broadstone on April 10 of the present year ( 1915 ) .
In 1869 he married Mary Dingle , of Lewannick , who , with a daughter and two sons , survives him .
G. C. R lxv E. H. AMAGAT , 1841-1915 .
Emile Hilaire Amagat was born at Berri ( Saint Satur ) in 1841 .
After a sound preliminary education he studied physics for several years at the Sorbonne in preparation for the examinations for the higher teaching posts .
After acting fo*r some time as assistant at the College de France , he held the Professorship of Physics at Fribourg in Switzerland for a few years ; he was then elected to the Chair of Physics at the Catholic University of Lyons , where he remained until 1892 .
He then returned to Paris , where at first he had no definite post , but he was afterwards made a teacher and , later , an .examiner at the Ecole Polytechnique ; he carried out the duties of the latter post until his death .
* Amagat was a simple , modest , and unassuming man , but he possessed extraordinary vigour and enthusiasm for work , and his fearlessness in attacking the most serious experimental difficulties was rewarded by magnificent results .
He was not only a brilliant experimenter , but a most ingenious and expert constructor , nearly all the apparatus he employed having been made either by himself or by a skilled mechanic whom he had trained .
Amagat himself very truly states that under no other conditions would it have been possible for him to carry out his researches successfully .
Amagat 's great conscientiousness is well shown by an incident , the particulars of which have been furnished very kindly by Dr. Guillaume .
In the vivd voce examination for entrance into the \#163 ; cole Polytechnique , about two-thirds of the candidates are usually rejected , and a change of examiners during the process of selection would be liable to produce unfair results .
While holding this examination Amagat had a slight apopleptic stroke , resulting in partial paralysis , but he insisted on continuing the work , and had a bed placed near the examination hall , so that , when overcome by fatigue , he could retire and rest from time to time .
During his period of study at the Sorbonne Amagat made a careful study of Regnault 's celebrated memoirs , the importance of which greatly impressed him , and between 1867 and 1871 , as a preparation for his thesis for the doctorate , he carried out his first considerable research on the influence of temperature on the deviations from Boyle 's law , and on the coefficient of expansion of gases under normal pressure .
In the course of the next six years Amagat studied the compressibility of liquids at temperatures between 0 ' and 100 ' C. and at pressures from 1 to 40 atmospheres .
He realised , however , the importance of greatly extending the range of pressure in investigating the properties of gases , and between 1876 and 1890 he carried out the wonderful series of researches with which his name will always be associated .
The range of pressure was extended in both directions .
Between 1876 and 1882 , making use of a differential manometer , Amagat determined the \xyi Obituary Notices of Fellovjs deceased .
compressibility of hydrogen and carbon dioxide from the atmospheric pressure to 2 or 3 mm. of mercury , while with air he made measurements down to 0*3 mm. At these lowest pressures Amagat concluded that the gases followed Boyle 's law within the limits of experimental error .
Determinations of the compressibility of rarefied gases are very liable to errors , the data obtained by a number of other investigators being highly contradictory , but the accuracy of Amagat 's results has been amply confirmed by those of Lord Rayleigh , who made a most remarkable extension of the range of low pressures .
As regards high pressures , Amagat determined the compressibility of nitrogen up to 430 atmospheres at temperatures from 0 ' to 100 ' , with open steel manometer tubes containing mercury .
In order to support these tubes , he first made use of a tower of the church of Fourviere at Lyons , and was thus able to take measurements up to 80 atmospheres .
A much greater range , with greater constancy of temperature , was afterwards-attained by attaching the tubes to the side of a mine shaft in the Saint-Etienne Colliery at Yerpilleux .
The manometer consisted of lengths of steel tubing screwed together , terminating in a glass tube , to allow of the height of the mercury column being read directly .
Having now determined the deviations from Boyle 's law in the case of nitrogen , Amagat was able to employ a nitrogen manometer in the laboratory , and to determine the compressibility of oxygen , air , hydrogen , , methane , ethylene , carbon monoxide , and carbon dioxide up to a pressure of 430 atmospheres .
But Amagat was not satisfied with this great step in advance , and in order to measure still higher pressures he constructed in 1886 a manometer on the principle of that of Gfally-Cazalat .
It may be described as a reversed hydraulic press , the pressure being measured by a column of mercury , the height of which bears the same ratio to that of an open column corresponding to the actual pressure as the cross-section of the small piston does to that of the large one .
The original Gfally-Cazalat instrument was very defective , , but by the introduction of important modifications it was found possible to-prevent all leakage and to obtain sufficiently accurate measurements of pressures exceeding 3000 atmospheres .
The glass volume tubes were enclosed in strong blocks of metal and were \amp ; subjected to pressure both externally and internally , so as to avoid rupture ; readings of volume were taken by the method of electrical contacts recommended by Tait .
This method was found unsuitable for temperatures higher than 50 ' , and could not be employed when many readings close together had to be taken , as , for example , in the neighbourhood of the critical point-A very ingenious method was , however , devised by which direct readings could be taken , and was employed for pressures up to 1000 atmospheres and for temperatures as high as 260 ' C. The gases examined by means of these two forms of apparatus were oxygen , hydrogen4 nitrogen , air , carbon dioxide , and ethylene , and the comE .
H. Amagat .
lxvii possibility of the following liquids was also determined : Water ; ethyl , methyl , propyl , and allyl alcohols ; acetone ; ethyl chloride , bromide , and iodide ; carbon disulphide and phosphorus trichloride .
The researches relating to the compressibility of fluids necessarily involve determinations of the deformation of the containing vessels and of the absolute compressibility of mercury .
Amagat first verified the formulae relating to elasticity in the case of circular cylinders with plane bases , and determined the coefficient of Poisson and the coefficient of elasticity for glass , flint glass , steel , copper , brass , A metal , and lead , and he then carried out determinations of the compressibility of glass and flint glass up to 2000 atmospheres at 0 ' , 100 ' , and 200 ' , by a method somewhat resembling that employed for the measurement of cubical dilatation by means of linear dilatation .
In order to determine the absolute compressibility of mercury Amagat employed long tubes of glass and of flint glass filled with mercury , which he compressed both internally and externally in order to ascertain the apparent compressibility .
The absolute compressibility was then calculated by difference .
The abnormal behaviour of water in many respects led Amagat to make a special investigation of this substance , and he found that the point of maximum density was lowered by raising the pressure , reaching 0 ' under a pressure of less than 200 atmospheres .
Amagat also made important investigations of the effect of pressure on the freezing points of liquids ; in the case of tetrachlorethylene the freezing point was raised from \#151 ; 19*5 ' to +19*5 ' by increasing the pressure from 210 to 1160 atmospheres .
In tabulating his results Amagat does not give the volumes occupied by a gramme , but by such a mass of each substance as would occupy unit volume in the gaseous state at normal temperature and pressure .
The general results are clearly shown by graphs in which the co-ordinates are PIE and P. * Among the more interesting points brought out by Amagat may be mentioned the following:\#151 ; 1 .
For hydrogen the isotherms , at all the temperatures studied , are straight parallel lines ; hence p(y \#151 ; a ) = b , where a. and b are constants .
2 .
For all the other substances the value of PIE falls with increase of pressure to a minimum and then rises again , the fall becoming more and more abrupt as the temperature is lowered .
The form of the isotherm , starting from the minimum , is slightly curved .
3 .
Straight lines of equal volume ( PV/ P = Y ) are intersected at equal distances by the isothermals , drawn at intervals of 10 ' , in the case of both carbon dioxide and ethylene .
In other words , taking temperatures as abscissae and pressures as ordinates , the isochors are straight lines , or P = cT\#151 ; a. This relation was discovered independently by Barus and by Ramsay and Young ; it is probably very nearly but not absolutely true .
Ixviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
4 .
The locus of the minimum values of PIE is a parabola with respect to the horizontal axis .
The coefficients AY/ At , AP/ At , 1/ Y .
AV/ A\#163 ; , and 1/ P .
AP/ A\#163 ; , were examined in great detail .
When Amagat returned to Paris in 1892 he was unable to obtain the use of a laboratory in which he could continue his experimental investigations , and the last 21 years of his life were spent in compiling and co-ordinating the immense number of numerical data resulting from his previous work .
The results were published in a brochure entitled , " Notes sir la Physique et la Thermodynamique .
" Among the more important subjects dealt with may be mentioned:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The specific heat of gases , ( 2 ) the internal pressure of fluids , ( 3 ) the corresponding states of matter .
1 .
Combining his own results with those of Prof. Joly on the specific heat of carbon dioxide at constant volume between 0 ' and 100 ' under a pressure of about 100 atmospheres , he was able to calculate the ratio of the specific heats for this substance and to show the great variation of the ratio for pressures between 50 and 100 atmospheres at 50 ' .
He also proved the discontinuity of the specific heat during change of state from liquid to saturated vapour .
2 .
Amagat arrived at the conclusion that the two functions ( Tdp/ dt-p ) and ( poVo/ v\#151 ; p ) , starting from sufficiently great molecular distances ( greater in the latter case than in the former ) , are inversely proportional to the square of the volume , and that when this law is followed the intermoleeular attraction is inversely proportional to the fourth power of the distance .
In the course of this research he was led to an exact and unexpected method of calculating the value of the absolute zero point .
3 .
By a simple and ingenious method of projection Amagat was able to prove the approximate correctness of the law of corresponding states without the necessity of ascertaining the actual critical constants .
He arrived at the conclusion that , at any corresponding points whatever , the value of PIE / T is ( approximately ) the same for all substances .
# The great value of Amagat 's work was recognised both in France and in this country .
On the death of Alfred Cornu , Amagat was elected to take his place in the Acad4mie des Sciences , and he was awarded the Prix La Caze by that body .
He was at one time president of the Societe de Physique , and was afterwards made an honorary member of the Society .
He was a Foreign Member of the Royal Societies of both London and Edinburgh .
Amagat 's work was inspired by that of Regnault , and he may be regarded as the great successor to that great physicist .
S. Y. lxix HENRY WILLIAM LLOYD TANNER , 1851-1915 .
The father of Henry William Lloyd Tanner was Prof. Henry Tanner , F.C.S. , a well-known writer on Agriculture and Agricultural Chemistry , who served on one or more Royal Commissions .
The son was born at Burham in Kent , on February 17 , 1851 .
He was never talkative about himself , even at home , so that few facts are known about his young days .
His school was Bristol Grammar School , which has turned out many an able mathematician , and has supplied Oxford in particular\#151 ; Tanner 's University\#151 ; with a considerable number of strong men in learning , education and affairs .
He must have left school young ; for when in October , 1868 , he came up to Jesus College , Oxford , as Natural Science Scholar he had already spent a year at the Royal School of Mines ( where he had formed a friendship that was used against him later ) and had secured his diploma there .
At Oxford he soon showed his bent for Pure Mathematics , and research therein .
His mathematical tutor was Mr. John Griffiths , an original writer on Elliptic Functions , who happily still lives , and one can imagine how such a tutor welcomed and stimulated such a pupil .
Tanner obtained a first class in Mathematical Moderations in 1870 , one in the Final School of Mathematics in 1872 , and one in Natural Science in 1873 .
It is a little surprising that he let others carry off the higher prizes open to mathematical students , Fellowships , and the Junior and Senior Mathematical Scholarships but the days were those of examination for everything , and his is not the only case one can remember of a man with a passion and a genius for investigation who did not allow to himself that the circumstances of the moment called for patient application to uncongenial as well as congenial tasks , and for the cultivation of examination facility .
Moreover , he had strong interests outside Mathematics , being a keen musician , a reader of fine literary taste , a Union debater .
He was Librarian of the Union in Easter term , 1873 , succeeding Mr. E. W. B. Nicholson , afterwards Bodley 's Librarian , just between the times at which the present Prime Minister was Treasurer and President .
After leaving Oxford he is believed to have been a schoolmaster for a little while , but was soon appointed Professor of Mathematics and Physical Sciences at the Royal Agricultural College , Cirencester .
While there , his fine work on Differential Equations proceeded vigorously , and it looked as if he might long enjoy in the College congenial and not too burdensome duties , with sufficient leisure for research .
But there seem to have been elements of unhappiness in the Institution .
A " strike " of members of the staff connected with a case of alleged wrongful dismissal terminated in a victory for the employers , and Tanner 's resignation was accepted .
Finding himself without secure means of livelihood even for one , he marked the occasion by taking a very small cottage for two , and a wife , Miss Helen Alice Edith vol. xci.\#151 ; A. h lxx Obituary Notices of Fellows Saunders .
Common sense may condemn the haste of this , but the results were very happy .
He could protect others , but needed even more than most men a protector himself .
Mrs. Lloyd Tanner was musical like her husband , like him highly educated and widely read , yet altogether womanly , and she proved a most devoted wife .
Often joining her husband in attention to his responsibilities , she contributed in no small measure to his later success .
Her death , in 1902 , after a long and painful illness , left him an exhausted and failing man .
After the fiasco at Cirencester he held for comparatively short periods masterships at Sherborne and at his own old school , Bristol .
But in 1883 the University College of South Wales and Monmouthshire was founded at Cardiff\#151 ; years had yet to elapse before it became a constituent college of a new , and now flourishing , University of Wales\#151 ; and he was appointed to the Chair of Mathematics and Astronomy in it , thus entering on a settled life of vast usefulness .
While strength lasted , he retained the Chair .
During the last illness of Prof. J. Viriamu Jones , and the interregnum which followed its lamented termination in 1901 , he directed the College as Acting Principal with marked efficiency .
Finally , when all too soon , in 1909 , he could work no longer , the Council made him Emeritus Professor on retirement .
As he was taking possession at Cardiff painful incidents occurred .
The word went round among certain good Welshmen that he was a secularist , or friend of secularists , whose influence on students might be anti-religious ; and some effort was made to upset his appointment .
Tanner bore his sensitiveness in private .
The man who at Cirencester , in wild indignation because of a real or fancied wrong to another , had been insubordinate , and had suffered for it , now at Cardiff , threatened with a grievous wrong himself , said nothing , but possessed his soul in patience waiting for the storm to pass .
And it did pass .
Very soon all knew that their professor was no firebrand , but the most lovable and sympathetic of men . .
Testimony to the energy and foresight with which he set about the task of organising courses of study , and to the inspiring character of his own teaching , is abundant .
Equally abundant , and no less strong , is the testimony to his unfailing courtesy and good humour , to his happy faculty of securing affection from colleagues and generations of students .
In the early days of the College\#151 ; before University dignity was secured\#151 ; there can have been little scope for the exercise of his gifts in fostering higher study .
The requirements must have been for the systematisation of unambitious teaching and for methods suitable to new armies of raw recruits .
Ho exercise of patience was too great for him .
I could quote letters from those who worked with him full of warm admiration for his successful devotion , in class and out of it , to the interests of the college , of student life , and of the individual\#151 ; letters all free from a single word of disparagement .
I could give at length the resolution recently communicated by the Council of the College to his family , in which it is shown how strong a sense prevailed in higher College Henry William Lloyd Tanner .
lxxi circles that he had been one of the most highly valued members of the Staff , that he had taken a very deep interest in the welfare of his students and in the general social life of the College , and that he was regarded with warm admiration by colleagues and students alike .
But the one appreciation which I choose to give verbatim is that of a peccant undergraduate , taken from a comparative estimate clearly not intended , and not altogether suitable , for publication:\#151 ; " But call on old Tanner about a cut lecture , and his smile fairly shouts , ' Well , if it is n't my old pal Jack Owen , ' and he treats you as if you 'd just got a First , and never rags you about the lecture .
But somehow when he 's finished .you have registered a vow that whatever else you may cut in future it sha n't be Maths .
And it is n't .
" The " old Tanner " in the above is the " old " of endearment ; and undoubtedly dons in general are looked upon as really old by undergraduates perhaps ten years younger than themselves .
All the same , Tanner never looked young .
' The light in the eye shone from an apparently care-worn face quite early ; and as care grew and strength failed that light began to need kindling by the sight of a friend to be encouraged .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1899 ; and was also an Associate of the Royal College of Music , a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society , and a member of the London Mathematical Society .
This last-named society published most of the more important among his mathematical writings .
He was an early recipient of the degree of Doctor in Science at Oxford when degrees in recognition of eminence in research were instituted .
He was an excellent man of business\#151 ; of public and altruistic business at any rate .
His mark has been left in the organisation of the mathematical curricula of the Welsh University .
He did not go out of his way to seek administrative work , but when it came his way he undertook it and did not spare himself in carrying it out .
His valued services as Acting Principal of the College for a time have already been referred to .
In 1891 he earned golden opinions by his discharge of the onerous duties of a Local Secretary on the occasion of the meeting of the British Association at Cardiff .
His services to education\#151 ; as to the value of which he was an enthusiast\#151 ; were not confined to the College and University .
For several years he was on the Glamorganshire Governing Body for Intermediate Schools , working thereon with keen interest , and being greatly missed when he retired from it .
He was a Governor of the Penarth County Schools .
In another field mention must be made of his efforts for the encouragement of Music in Cardiff .
For many years he was a vice-president and active supporter of the Cardiff Musical Society .
Soon after his wife 's death in 1902 it became clear that he had overtaxed his powers .
Failure in bodily strength began to be accompanied by lapses of memory and dazed intervals in the midst of effort .
His amazing power of concentration was gone , but not his devotion to duty .
He struggled on , being with difficulty kept from the lecture room even when acutely ill ; but in 1909 lxxii Obituary Notices of Fellows it became clear that his retirement from active work could no longer be postponed .
There were difficulties , financial as well as other , both for his family and for the College : the days of the Federated Superannuation scheme for Universities and University Colleges were not yet .
Self-denial had to be exercised all round ; and a small Civil List pension was secured for him .
Thus it was made possible for him to end his days in simple comfort .
His life in retirement was quiet and uneventful , with nothing painful about it but progressive decay .
On March 6 , 1915 , he passed away peacefully at Exeter .
He leaves two sons and a daughter .
The elder son , Evelyn Lloyd Tanner , 8th Wrangler 1903 , First Class Natural Science Tripos 1904 , has held important posts in the Indian Civil Service , and is , for the moment , a trooper in the Beliar Light Horse , straining in vain for permission to go on active service .
( Tanner himself had been a keen volunteer in his young days , and was a fine " shot .
" ) The second , Percy Lloyd Tanner , who has adopted a business career , has my best thanks for much help given me in compiling these notes .
The daughter , Cicely Marguerite Lloyd Tanner , has inherited her parents ' love for music , and may make it her profession , though now she has devoted herself to " Eed Cross " work .
Prof. Lloyd Tanner 's contributions to mathematical science , omitting some that are comparatively trifling , form two distinct series .
There is an early series on Differential Equations , more particularly on Partial Equations of the second and third orders with intermediate integrals , and a later series on the Theory of Numbers , more particularly on Problems of Cyclotomy .
Both series show vigorous penetration , and both artistic refinement .
The " push and go " are , however , more marked in the former series , and the beauty and taste in the latter .
The papers on Differential Equations belong to the years 1875-80 , and are to be found in vols .
7-11 of the ' Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society , ' vol. 16 of the ' Quarterly Journal , ' and vols .
5-7 of the ' Messenger of Mathematics .
' Some ( probably the least important ) deal with Pfaffs Theorem and Pfaffian Expressions , but most of them with questions of Solution of Equations of the second and higher orders in two , and more than two , independent variables .
For a number of the more conspicuous results obtained , reference may be made to the sixth volume of Forsyth 's ' Theory of Differential Equations .
' One paper , " On the Transformation of a Linear Differential Expression , " stands in somewhat close relation to earlier work of G-rassmann 's , which was no doubt unknown to the writer ; but in general it may be said that Tanner in this series of researches did pioneer work in a department of investigation which was neglected , not only in England , but mostly elsewhere at the time .
He makes some reference to very instructive work by Imschenetsky on the theory of partial equations of the first and second orders ; but he went far beyond that work , opening up some new ways for equations of the second order , and proceeding to those of the third order .
For equations of the second order he obtained many results which , expressed in different form , were much later included in a more complete Henry William Lloyd Tanner .
lxxiii investigation by Gosserat , for which see the fourth volume of Darboux 's * Theory of Surfaces/ There is no reason to think that Gosserat 's work was not completely independent of Tanner 's ; but men less self-effacing than the latter\#151 ; and perhaps the latter himself , had his full vigour remained to him\#151 ; would hardly have refrained from pointing out a claim to priority .
As regards equations of the third order , which admit of integrals of lower order expressible in finite form , Tanner 's investigations were most valuable ; and some are standard even now .
It is very remarkable that a man who was producing work of such quality in steady stream should stop suddenly .
The advent of exciting times in his life , followed by immersion in absorbing duty , may have had something to do with this .
But , as affording another explanation , I remember the importance which he attached to keeping in touch with the current thought of the day .
He had been applying , very brilliantly , the formal methods of the older analysis ; and meanwhile others were doing work with modern weapons .
Before going further he must allow himself time for a profound study of modernism .
Once in congratulating me , with the most graceful kindliness , on a piece of formal work of my own , he was too naive to keep me from being aware that what he really meant was : " Twenty years ago this would have been charming ; but is it not rather late for the sort of thing now ?
" I am pretty sure that he had once reasoned in this way with himself .
However , he never returned with new tools to the work of his old love .
During his first busy years at Cardiff his writings were infrequent and minor .
About 1886 began the later period of his productive activity ; and the subjects attended to now were the purest of the pure in Mathematics , those studies about number whose difficulties and beauty enchain and fascinate an artistic intelligence when once they have allured it , but which leave unaffected except by wonder the man who pursues Mathematics as knowledge for practical use .
His chief papers of the new series are spread over vols .
18-27 of the ' Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society/ All have more or less bearing on what is known as Cyclotomy .
The with roots of unity are arranged in sets or " periods " \#151 ; mono-basic periods if n is prime .
Tanner submits the properties of periods , mono-basic and other , to searching examination .
It is probably impossible in few words\#151 ; and I certainly have nob the necessary grasp on the theory\#151 ; to state clearly the nature and extent of this examination .
It is evident , however , that the group-notion was used with great cleverness , and that notable advance was made in methods for the formation of equations satisfied by sums of periods .
Prodigious labour must have been required in the detailed analysis , as , for instance , reference to the paper ( ' Proc. Lond. Math. So .
, ' vol. 24 ) on " Complex Primes formed with Fifth Boots of Unity " will certify .
On p. 224 we read : " To give some idea of the facility of the method from the calculator 's point of view it may be stated that the determination of the prime factors of two primes selected at random in the second million vol. xci.\#151 ; a. i lxxiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
( viz. 1,562,051 and 1,671,781 ) was completed in three hours .
" After this , pp. 256-262 , comes a full table of results for about 310 primes , results previously obtained by Eeuschle being of some service in respect of the first 40 .
He never finished all he had to say on these subjects .
Very shortly before his powers of concentration began to fail he spoke to me of surprisingly elegant and comprehensive conclusions at which he was arriving , putting aside the natural notion that the mono-basic must first be ransacked , and the poly-basic thus led up to .
These conclusions were to remain unrevealed to others . .
E. B. E.

