]\gt ; The Various Inclinations of the Electrical Axis of the Human Heart .
Part IA.\mdash ; The Normal Effects of By AUGUSTUS D. WALLER , M.D. , F.R.S. ( Received lsIarch 30 , \mdash ; Read May 14 , 1914 , ) ( PLATES 3-6 .
) In my first account of the electrical action of the human heart I made no allusion to the influence upon the electrical pulse of the movements of respiration .
I noticed that influence indeed which is especially well marked in my own case ( where the heart happens to be of the complete horizontal type ) but only as disturbing the demonstration , and in some cases rendering the direction of the pulse uncertain .
I noticed in particular that when demonstrating ) transverse effect from the two hands , best effects were shown by holding my breath in expiratio , and that these effects were markedly diminished deep inspiration .
I imagined at that time that the effect was due to a disfavouring of current spread from the heart by reason of the distended , but was puzzled by the fact that with the axial lead ( hand and left foot ) the electrical pulse was augmented during inspiration instead of diminished as was the case with the SyerSe lead .
I did not , however , follow up the clue afforded by this discrepancy , and it was only much later , i.e. after the introduction by Einthoven of the stringgalyanometer and the observations of Einthoven , Kraus and Nicolai , Samojloff and others , that the meaning of the discrepancy and with it the whole mechanism of the respiratory effects became clear .
The variations of amplitude are , if not entirely , almost entirely due to the rise and fall of the diaphragm , raising and lowering the heart as a lever hinged at the aortic end and thus widening and narrowing the " " axial angle ( By axial angle I mean the angle formed with the vertical by the current axis of the heart or line of greatest potential difference at angles to the equator ) In 1889 I represented this angle as being to the left ( and to the right in cases of situs viscerum inversus ) , and drew two series of curved * The method followed was the same as that followed for the observations of Part I. A Bock-Thoma galvanometer was used for these observations , the deflections being standardised whenever necessary by a millivoIt switched into the circuit .
For the careful comparison of values in different leads or between the values obtained at different times , a standard millivolt deflection was of course taken , arid the propol.tional correction applied , if necessary .
But in comparisons taken between the two sides of the body the standard deflection was found to be so invariable that it was often omitted .
' ' On the Electromotive Changes connected with the Beat of the Mammalian Heart , and of the Human Heart in particular ' Phil. Trans , vol. 80 , p. 169 ( 1889 ) .
VOL. LXXXVIII .
Dr. A. D. Waller .
Various Inclinations of the equipotential lines opposite ends of the heart .
To-day I represent the angle as to the left ( it can range in healthy subjects between to the right and 10 to the left ) , and draw straight equipotential lines , parallel with the equator , at right angles to the current-axis CC .
To-day as in 1889 I regard as essential the distinction between " " strong\ldquo ; leads ( left superior FIG. typical heart with an oblique electrical axis .
OO is the equator , CC the current-axis .
Equipotential lines drawn parallel to the equator , and at right angles to the current-axis at regular intervals of indicates the " " axial angle\ldquo ; formed with the vertical MF by the current-axis where and are the electromotive values of the Right and Left inferior ventricular spikes .
, and right inferior ) and " " weak\ldquo ; leads ( right superior , and left inferior ( see figs The present diaglam ( fig. 1 ) is drawn so as to exhibit tho relative values of potential difference between the led-offpoints , by the number of equipotential lines which they include .
Each unit volt .
Thus e.g. in fig. 1 it is to be seen that ( approximately ) ; ten-thousandths of a volt .
At pages of the communication to which the present paper belongs it is stated that a full consideration of the effects of respiration upon the ( amplitude of the ) electrocardiogram is a necessary preliminary to the due understanding of the physiological and pathological departures from the 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 86 ( 1913 ) .
Electrical Axis of the Human normal type .
The consideration of the effects of respiration appeared to me at that time as a side-issue to be cleared up by a few carefully planned observations , whereas it now presents itself as an extremely simple exercise in elementary trigonometry on the main line of the principal argument .
The essential distinction between favourable or strong leads ( left superior and right inferior ) and unfavourable or " " weak\ldquo ; leads ( right superior and left inferior ) which was the principal result of my first investigation of the subject , afford , when their data are converted into simple ratios , sinusoidal curves which plotted upon millimetre paper exhibit directly the quantitative relations between the electrical effects of the heart , whether horizontal or vertical ( as described in Part I ) or at various inclinations in accordance with respiratory alterations of the cardiac axis .
The facts will be best presented by a detailed account of two typical cases .
The Case of B. O. B. Oblique Heart .
Fig. 2 ( Plate 3 ) the transverse , right inferior and left inferior records taken simultaneously with the record of respiration slow and deep so as to emphasise the effects upon the heart , which in this subject had been determined as having an electrical axis an angle not exceeding with the vertical during quiet breathing .
The amplitude of the spike in the sverse record varies between a maximum of 20 mm. expiration and a minimum of 15 mm. in inspiration .
The waxing and waning is very regular and at once gests a sinusoidal curve .
In the right inferior record the respiratory variation of amplitude is much less pronounced and regular within a range that may be taken as mm. in expiration and 24 mm. in inspiration .
In the left inferior record the variation is regular and large and gestive of a sinusoidal curve .
The range is measured as between the values mm. immediately after the culmination of expiration , and mm. during inspiration .
( In these three records the deflection by 1/ 1000 volt through body and galvanometer was 18 mm. ) From these values right and left below the heart we calculate that : The expiratory The inspiratory Diff verage baken aexpiration anspirationIn tecord tiratory variation i Dr. A. D. Waller .
of the In the teft superior record the variation is large and fairly regular between values mm. iu expiration and mm. in inspiration .
The right and left measurements give for the superior angle above the heart the following values:\mdash ; In expiration\mdash ; In inspiration\mdash ; Diff From these results we see that in the case of an oblique heart the effect of inspiration is to weaken the strong leads and to strengthen the weak leads .
But this rule , while affordin a useful mnemonic , is applicable only to oblique and vertical hearts .
* The inspiratory diminution of the superior angle has in this case come out as , as compared with for the inferior angle .
This is as might be expected from the fact that the basal attachment of the heart cannot be to the same extent as its apical , free portion .
Obviously we cannot expect that the angle calculated above the heart from the three points , should necessarily be identical with that calculated below the heart from the three points , L. ( The records of this case incidentally afford a striking example of the variations of pulse-frequency that are associated with the two phases of respiration , sometimes in the human bject , always in the dog .
I have discussed them elsewhere under the title " " Dog Pulse .
Their consideration does not belong to this portion of the subject .
) The of A. D. W.\mdash ; A Heart of the Horizontal Type .
Fig. 3 gives the transverse , right inferior , and left inferior records taken simultaneously with a record of respiration , slow and deep so as to emphasise the effects upon the heart , which in this subject had been determined as having an approximately horizontal electrical axis .
The spikes of the weak leads ( right superior and left inferior ) are accordingly reversed , as was explained in Part I. In the transverse records the respiratory variations of the spike are regular and large , between values mm. in expiration and mm. in inspiration .
It may be noticed in this record that inspiratory diminution goes on I speak of hearts as " " vertical " " oblique and " " horizontal according as the axial angle is between and and and .
The contrasted types are vertical and horizontal : oblique hearts belong to the vertical type .
' Physiol. Soc. Proc June 28 , 1913 .
Waller . .
Soc. Proc. , , vol. 88 , Plate 3 .
Waller . .
Soc. Proc. , , vol. 88 , \mdash ; Electrical Axis of the Human Heart .
into the beginning of expiration , and that the expiratory augmentation goes on into the beginning of inspiration .
This lag is probably mechanical , the raph begins to indicate sooner than the heart fins to be raised and lowered .
The effects are similar to those seen with the vertical heart , viz. , inspiratory diminution , expiratory augmentation .
In the right inferior record the respiratory variations of amplitude are regular and relatively large , i.e. in relation to the absolute magnitude of the spike , which in the horizontal heart is small .
The range is approximately between 6 mm. in expiration and 9 mm. in inspiration .
The left inferior record exhibits the negative spike characteristic of the horizontal or soft heart , and with respiration well marked augmentation during expiration and diminution during inspiration .
The values as read on this.record reach to mm. at the end of expiration and to mm. at the end of inspiration .
The angles as calculated from these right- and left-hand values In expiration\mdash ; Can In inspiration\mdash ; The values for the right and left superior leads of this subject ( of which tracings are not reproduced here ) were as follows:\mdash ; Beviewing the results of this case of horizontal heart as to the general effects of respiration in comparison with the results obtained for the or vertical heart , it appears that these effects with inspiration are as follows:\mdash ; Dr. A. D. Waller .
Inclinations of the There is at first a flagrant discrepancy between the effects of respiration upon the two types of heart .
The only case in which the effect is similar in both is that of the transverse lead .
The provisional rule framed above for the vertical heart \mdash ; inspiratory weakening of strong leads and strengthening of weak leads \mdash ; is evidently inapplicable to the horizontal heart .
The cases of the superior and left inferior decreased negative are indeed amenable to it , since decreased negative as well as ased positive amount to electrical strengtbening .
But the cases of the left superior and inferior , where after some uncertainty it became clear that a positive spike is increased for the horizontal , decreased for the vertical heart , are in apparent contradiction of the rule .
Graphically expressedl the angles in the two subjects B. O. B. and A. D. W. in inspiration and in expiration are as follows:\mdash ; B.O.B. A.D. .
4.\mdash ; Diagrams to indicate the value of the axial angle in inspiration and in expiration of the subjects B. O. B. and A. D. W. , calculated from the eIectromotive values of the ri and left superior spikes and of the right and left inferior spikes .
But the general relations between the varying strengths \ldquo ; of leads in different hearts and in different :hases of respiration will become most clear Electrical Axis of the Heart .
5 5 from a consideration of the simple trigonometrical ratios of a axial angle .
The transverse lead is the simplest to consider , and its simplest case is that of the horizontal heart in which the axial angle during quiet respiration is .
In this position , regarding the heart as forming ( electrically)a horizontal lever , it is evident that with this type of heart the transvel.se electrical effect has its maximum value , and that the effect be diminished by either rise or fall of the diaphragm ; the diminution will be proportional to the sine of the altered axial .
Taking as unity or 10 this maximal value with the chest at rest , we shall have the altered values , if with fall of the diaphragm the angle is changed to Thus the theoretical alterations of nitude in the transverse lead with alterations of the axial angle must be in ratio with the numerical values of the sines of the altered .
And as the reference curye to which to compare our observations we have the simple curve of sines:\mdash ; li36 3420 5000 6428 7660 8660 9397 9848 10000 at snperior leads , right and left , conle nexl in order of simplicity .
The former ( mouth and right hand ) , as stated in 1889 , is " " \ldquo ; being most nearly in accordance of direction with the direction of the equator ; the latter is " " strong .
most nearly in accordance of direction with the direction of the current-axis .
The ( fig. 1 ) is taken as being .
In the case of the horizontal heart with the axial angle it is evident that the electrical effects along , are equal and opposite , with values .
With the axial angle altered by respiration the effects become:\mdash ; Along and along ML With a perfectly vertical heart , i.e. with an axial angle , the effects are again equal , viz , The theoretical alterations of magnitude of the superior leads with alterations of the axial angle must be in numerical ratio with the cosines of the altered an gle .
We have as the reference curve to which to compare our observations , a simple sine rve formed by the tabular values of cosines multiplied by a constant factor to correct for projection between RL and the two sides , ML\mdash ; in this case multiplied by .
The electromotive values for the superior leads for values of the axial angle from to are thus:\mdash ; Dr. A. D. Waller .
Various Inclinations of the Left superior RiSht supe1ior . .
It will be noticed that the right-hand values steadily diminish as the axial angle increases from to from their maximum of 50 to their minimum of , passing through the value when ; that the left-hand values between and increase from 50 to a maximum of 71 ( 7071 ) at and then decrease again to 50 .
The right-hand lead is " " weak the left-hand lead is " " stro1lg.\ldquo ; In the strong lead the first ventricular wave is positive in both types of heart\mdash ; vertical and horizontal .
It is increased by inspiration in the horizontal heart , decreased by inspiration in the vertical heart .
In the formulae given above , for the calculation of the numerical values of right and left superior leads , we have taken the vertical angle so that the semi-vertical angle [ and that the formula for calculating from known values of and is : Generalising for any value of the formulae for the superior leads become : For left-hand values\mdash ; ) , For right-hand values\mdash ; , and for calculation of from known values of and .
: The right and left inferior leads right hand and either foot , left hand and either foot ) are at first sight somewl } less simple , but they are readily simplified .
As was shown in my first observations of 1889 , the two feet are practically isoelectric , and we may therefore regard as being electrically identical the two right inferior leads ( axial and right lateral ) and the two left inferior leads ( equatorial and left lateral ) .
The two feet Axis of the Human Heart .
57 are thus taken to be represented by a single point F. The right-hand lead .
being most parallel to the normally oblique current-axis , is the strong lead ; the left-hand lead , being least parallel to the current-axis , is the weak lead .
The general formulae for the inferior leads For right-hand values\mdash ; , For left-hand values\mdash ; , and for calculation of from known values of and In Part I the angle has been taken as , so that and .
The values of and at different values of are now\mdash ; For the right side\mdash ; , For the left side\mdash ; The results come out as follows:\mdash ; Similarly , we may work out the values of the leads which have been assumed above as identical , i.e. right lateral and axial , left lateral and equatorial .
But it would be tedious and unnecessary to give this in detail , since , as will presently be seen , the results are most easily and quickly obtained by a geometrical model , which gives immediately the results that have been considered up to this point .
This model is intended also to render evident the meaning of the apparent discrepancies between vertical and horizontal hearts as regards the effects of respiration , and to give Dr. A. D. Waller .
Various In , clinations of the geometrically the theoretical values of the first ventricular spike in all leads at all values of the axial angle The quadrilateral cvure ( fig. 5 ) RMLF , in which CM and so that the vertical angle at , and the vertical angle at represents at its points the leading-off points mouth , hands , and feet .
It is pinned by its centre to the centre of a field ruled in parallel ( equi- potential lines ; each division in this figure represents volt , so that 10 divisions are equivalent to 1 millivolt .
Lines at right angles to the equipotential lines ( not drawn ) would represent lines of force ; the arrow CC the centre of the field represents the current-axis , the line OO at right angles to represents the equator .
The and the field can be rotated in relation to each other round the centre , so that the current-axis CC is placed at any given angle from the vertical .
The figure being weighted so as to remain vertical , the field when tilted gives any desired inclination of the current-axis , and the points , occupy positions upon the field that indicate directly the potential diflerences between them , i.e. , the different leads .
Thus , e.g. , if the currentaxis is inclined the values in relation to of the four points will be respectively and above and below zero , and the potential differences in the various leads will be by the differences of level between various pairs of points , as Current-axis with vertical ( as in fig. MR ( right volt ML ( left 68 RL ( transverse). .
50 ( right inferior ) LF left 61 MF Obviously as regards the two sides of the body , MR and LF are relatively " " weak \ldquo ; leads , ML and are relatively " " strong\ldquo ; leads .
Similarly the potential difference in the several leads can be determined for any value of by pricking off the positions of the points , and measuring off the differences of level between pairs of points .
It will be realised at once that with values of the direction of the weak leads is reversed\mdash ; e.g. at the right superior potential difference is seen to be and the left inferior potential difference .
At both weak leads and both the strong leads Plotted out upon squared paper the values thus obtained give the curves represented in fig. 6 , which are obviously sinusoidal curves , most obviously [ To face p. 68 .
] Axis of the Human Heart .
Dr. A. D. Waller .
Various Inclinations of the so for the transverse values , which can be directly read off from a sine table ; for the other leads the curves can be verified by working out their appropriate .
Fig. 6 is useful as showing at a glance the theoretical values to which the observed values must approximate in the several leads with hearts of various inclinations , and as regards the present paper affords the readiest mode of explanation of the otherwise somewhat perplexing effects of respiration upon the amplitude of the electro-cardiogram .
Inspiration by reason of descent of the diaphrarrmo and elevation of the ribs causes a clockwise rotation of the electrical axis of the heart , i.e. a diminution of the angle above and below the heart .
Reading the appropriate line on fig. 6 from right to left , i.e. in the direction of inspiratory decrease of , we see by its rise or fall whether and how much increase or decrease of the ventricular spike is to be anticipated .
Thus the transverse must be decreased with inspiration ( or increased with expiration ) ; the longitudinal , the right superior , and the left inferior increased .
And as regards the troublesome case of the two leads we realise at a glance how it happens that at high values of , i.e. with a 'horizontal\ldquo ; axis , we find inspiratory increase of the strong leads ; whereas at low values of , i.e. with an axis at less than , we find inspiratory decrease .
This figure also supplies an explanation of the following two experiments , one or other of which can nearly always be repeated with success upon a heart of which the electrical axis happens to be of suitable inclination:\mdash ; Experiment l.\mdash ; With an approximately horizontal heart the normally ative left inferior spike may be abolished and rendered positive during maximal inspiration .
An example of this experiment is given in fig. 7 .
Bxperiment 2.\mdash ; With an oblique heart the normally positive left inferior spike may be abolished and rendered negative during maximal expiration .
An example of this experiment is given in fig. 8 .
\mdash ; It is not always easy to decide what are the actual measurements to be taken for calculation .
In simple cases , i.e. , in cases of vertical heart where is large and positive on both sides , there is no difficulty in determining these values .
Nor is there any serious ambiguity for the case of the clearly horizontal heart where is large and at once negative .
But the not infrequent cases where is double , composed of a small positive followed by a large negative , or of two small positives separated by a negat ve movement , cannot be dealt with with the same degree of certainty .
The indicator does not take up a decided position , the current axis resultant from opposed and nearly balanced forces fluctuates to and fro , and the obvious Wal .
Soc. Proc. , , vol. 88 , Plate 5 .
Walter .
Soc. Proc. , , vol. 88 , Electrical Axis of the Heart .
fluctuation produces in the mind of the observer a corresponding state of indecision as to what value is to be taken for difference of potential during the three to four hundredths of a second of the presystole while the chemical and electrical changes preparatory to contraction are proceeding .
I have given much thought to such doubtful cases , and made many attempts to synchronise fluctuating records and to calculate the fluctuating angle at definite points during the initial period of systole , but without any satisfactory result ; the fluctuations have proved to be too rapid to allow of any satisfactory establishment of corresponding points in time between different records , even when such records have been taken simultaneously .
I have therefore for the present abandoned the attempt , and taken for these doubtful cases maximal and minimal values , whether positive or negative , and calculated separate values of from such values , duly noting , of course , their doubtful character .
An example in point is given in Part I at p. 520 , the case of Dr. E. I have not found it possible to make any satisfactory correction for asynchronism between the initial and .
points of the transverse and lateral spikes , and have taken into formula only the values of the and left lateral ( inferior ) spikes , of which , to my observations , the asynchronism is so small as to be negligible .
] Values of in the several Leads at Different Values of the Axial Angle .
( Taken by direct of the model to the nearest millimetre .
) Dr. A. D. Waller .
Various Inclinations of the Values of in the Inferior Leads , taking into reckoning a Difference of Potential between the two Feet .
I have repeated these two experiments many times and have rarely failed to off either the first or the second upon the subjects who have submitted themselves to one or other of the two .
I have failed to effect complete reversal in only one or two cases where the electrical axis was above the horizontal or very nearly vertical .
With a slight modification the model given in fig. serves to indicate the nature and amount of the slight differences observable between the two pairs of inferior leads in consequence of the slight differences of potential that are produced at the two feet by the systolic spike .
The ence between the two feet in what may be termed the inferior transverse lead is in the same direction as that of the hand-to-hand potential-difference , but of much lower value .
The inferior transverse to 1/ 5 of the ( superior ) transverse ; as an average for the purpose of calculation it is taken here , and represented on the fig. by the horizontal line cm .
long across the point F. If now the positions of the two points ( representing right and left foot ) , are calculated for values of from to \mdash ; or pricked off on the model\mdash ; and plotted as before , the curves given in fig. 9 are obtained showing Etectrical Axis of the Human Dr. A. D. Waller .
Various lnclinations of the clearly the theoretical values of the differences in the several inferior leads\mdash ; axial and right lateral , equatorial and left lateral\mdash ; which in were assumed to be identical under the nations right inferior and left inferior on the assumption that the two feet might be regarded as isoelectric .
* By reference to this figure it is easy to satisfy himself what order of error can arise by regarding the two feet as isoelectric , and to understand without effort certain minor but otherwise puzzling discrepancies met with in certain hearts when the several inferior leads are compared by means of a highly sensitive instrument .
Thus e.g. it is obvious at a glance that such discrepancies become more sensible in " " horizontal\ldquo ; than in " " vertical\ldquo ; cases , and that e.g. a heart offers the paradoxical instance of a positive left lateral and a negative equatorial spike .
And the observation which I have frequently made without thoroughly understanding it to the effect that an equatol.ial spike is ] than the left lateral when positive , but the larger of the two when negative , is rendered obviously intelligible .
Likewise that mentioned without comment in Part I , p. 510 , of this paper that the left is slightly larger than the right longitudinal spike The two experiments described above can be repeated with advantage in view of this second diagram model , upon consideration of which it will be apparent that in repeating Experiment 1 the left lateral is slightly more favourable than the equatorial lead , and that in repeating Experiment 2 the equatorial is slightly more favourable than the left lateraL The differences of value between axial and right lateral and between equatorial and left lateral are obviously small , and their absolute measurement involves a large relative error .
For instance , in the case of J. C. W. the values come out as follows:\mdash ; In my first communication ( ' Phil. Trans 1889 , p. 191 ) the two feet are given as being isoelectric , although I was well aware of the fact that theoretically there should be a slight P.D. between them .
In that connection , speaking only of the four leads between the mouth and four extremities , I used the expression right and left superior and inferior , whereas for right and left inferior I should have used the designations right and left longitudinal , in accordance.with the tel.minology of the present paper , where right and left inferior refsl to hands and feet .
The table given on p. 510 should read accordingly:\mdash ; Right superior 3 voIt ) Left superior Right longitudinal , , ) Left longitudinal Electrical Axis of the Human Heart .
Transverse volt , Right lateral . .
Axial Left lateral . . . .
Equatorial Inferior transverse Pathological The various applications of the electro-cardiogram to clinical of heart lesions fall into two chief divisions : Class , in which the indications are certain ; Class , in which they are uncertain .
Class is represented by the arhythmiae ; no mistake is possible as to alterations of frequency and rhythm , coupled beats , auriculo-ventricular dissociation .
Class includes among many others the supposed electrical signs of and left ventricular hypertrophy and of partial interruptions of auriculo-ventricular conduction .
It is as regards Class that I believe it to be most necessary to pay attention to the physical relations of the normal heart .
The electrical that are accepted by clinical ities a associated with right hypertrophy as expressed in clinical ars " " small , large or , as I prefer to express it , small transverse , large left lateral spike .
These are , as has been explained above , physical evidence of an vertical electrical axis .
The great of clinical observers in stating that this ation of small and large is common in mitral disease , and that it nifies hypertrophy of the right side of the heart .
I have seen many cases during the last three years that are in agreement with this statement , but , on the other hand , I have during the last 20 years met with still more unerons cases of apparently perfectly normal persons that presented this combination , and only inferred that they possessed vertical hearts .
I have become accustomed to expect to find this combination in infants and in any tall healthy young man accustomed to take plenty of open-air exercise .
Therefore , without to express any opinion as to the clinical value of this sign of right ventricular hypertrophy , I do venture to say that in the first instance our reasoning from the should be limited to the conclusion that in its presence the electrical axis of heart must be vertical or directed to the right , and bear in mind that this indication is presented by the earts of many normal persons .
The nosis of right ventricular } ) ertrophy has to be established on independe1lt clinical grounds .
The electrical signs that are presented as significant of left ventricular hypertrophy are , in clinical language , large , small or reversed VOL. LXXXVIII.\mdash ; B. Dr. A. D. Waller .
of the , or , as I express it , a large transverse and a small or reversed left lateral spike .
Precisely similar considerations apply to this sign in relation to diagnosis as have been just stated as Jards the right side of the heart .
I have seen cases that agree with the clinical statement ( but others that do not ) , and I have seen.far more numerous cases of normal persons with small transverse and negative left inferior spikes , and have therefrom that the electrical axis of the heart was approximately horizontal .
I have met with this sign at all ages and in all conditions of health , and have become accustomed to expect to find it in mifi women and in aged persons of either sex .
I associate it in my nind with a soft or flabby heart muscle , but possess no confirmatory post-mortem evidence of that impression .
The electrical signs that presented as being nificant of interruption of the right ( or left ) branch of the auriculo-ventricular bundle of Kent and His tsist essentially in a reversed and prolonged resembling a left ventricular extra-systole , but occurrin in sequence to an auricular conbraction .
All the cases hitherto reported which have been confirmed by post-mortem examination have been on the right side , and have been characterised electrically intra vitam by a left lateral deflection , which has been accepted as an indication of ventricular contraction initiated on the left side .
I shall not venture to deny the possible of the chain of argument upon which the nosis of the interru } ) tion depends , but in estimating probabilities I think it should be clearly realised that a negative left lateral deflection is of frequent normal occurrence .
In Part I of this paper it has been shown that the inferior angle varies within a very wide with the shape and position of the heart .
A presumably " " soft\ldquo ; heart , of which the muscle is deficient in torle , is sessile upon the , and its electrical axis is approximately horizontal .
With " " hard\ldquo ; muscle the heart , even diastole , is more nearly erect upon the diaphragm , and its axis is more nearly vertical .
The axial angle is decreased by inspil.ation , increased by expiration ; it is decreased by muscular exercise , increased by repletion of the stomach .
I think that it is extremely probable that to this series of statements it may be added that , pathologically , the angle is decreased by engorgement of the right side of the heart ( as occurs .
in mitral disease , so that the electrical axis may be vertical or actually directed to the right , and increased by hypertrophy of the left side especially as occurs .
in aortic disease ) , so that the axis may become horizontal .
But since both these conditions , .
axis to the right and axis hori ontal , are compatible with a normal state , I do think that either a remarkably large left lateral spike or a reversed left Electrical Axis of the Heart .
lateral spike is to be admilted as affording per se proof of the existence of right or left hypertrophy or dilatation .
Considering , further , that a negative left lateral spike is of frequent occurrence in the normal as well as in the diseased heart , it cannot be admitted as affording per se proof or even evidence of an interruption of the branch of the auriculo-ventricular bundle .
The facility with which in certain hearts a positive left lateral spike can be rendered negative is such as to forbid us from admitting a temporary reversal as an indication of temporary interruption of conduction to the ventricle .
LrNote added , 1914.\mdash ; By courtesy of Dr. Part of the National Hospital for Diseases of the Heart , I am able to complete the account of the cases of A. D. W. and of J. C. W. by the reduced outlines fig. 10 ) of their hearts in the positions of deep inspiration and expiration .
The outlines of the heart and diaphragm indicate approximately the anatomical alterations corresponding with the electrical alterations iven in figs. 7 and 8 . .
There is , however , in these cases no absolute correspolldence of axial angles to be made out between the anatomical and the electrical estimates .
The skiagrams required the breath to be held for several seconds in inspiration and in expiration respectively .
In general , the correspondence between the anatomical and the electrical axial angle is not very close .
As rule the A.D. J. C. right and left electrical effects of the infantile heart which is mesial may be expected to be about equal , while in the senile heart which tends to become the left hand inferior spike is more usually ative .
But cases occur of apparently normal as well as of diseased hearts ( e.g. mitral diseases ) where the left inferior is larger than the right inferior spike ( implying an electrical axis directed to the right and a reversed transverse spike ) , but where the anatomical axis is distinctly directed to the left .
Cases also occur of reyersed left inferior spike where the electrical axis comes out Mr. Halnan and Dr. Marshall .
as greater than , i.e. directed upwards to the left , but where the anatomical axis is distinctly less than , i.e. directed downwards to the left .
] Corrigenda in Part I , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 86 .
Page 512 .
In the second line of the footnote should read Page 514 .
Last line , shoutd Page 520 .
The record of the right superior lead is placed upside down .
The first ventricular wave is actually negative .
Page 525 .
The numbers 36 and 47 in the last column ( 16th and 16th from bottom should be transposed .
On the Relation between the Thymus and the Or the Influence of these Organs upon Growth .
By E. T. and F. H. A. MARSHALL .
( With a Note by G. UDNY ( Communicated by Prof. J. N. Langley , F.RS .
Received Apri14 , \mdash ; Read June 18 , 1914 .
) Calzolari was the first to show that in castrated male animals the absolute weight of the thymus is larger than that of the same gland in normal animals .
The experiments were made upon six rabbits , which were castrated when between one and three months old and killed at various periods afterwards up to nine months , each rabbit being compared with a control .
lie Henderson carried out a statistical investigation upon the weight of the thymus in cattle , and showed that in these animals castration caused a persistent growth and a retarded atrophy of the gland .
Henderson also records two experiments upon guinea-pigs by Noel Paton , and the results of these are confirmatory of the observations upon cattle .
The possible reciprocal action of the thymus upon the testis was investigated by Noel Paton , who removed the former organ from 24 young guinea-pigs and killed them when they attained weights varying from 115 to 355 .
These animals were compared with 23 normal guinea-pigs kept as controls .
The conclusion reached was that in guinea-pigs below 300 .
( i.e. , prior to the time when the thymus usually atrophies ) thymectomy is followed by a more rapid growth of the testes .
In guineapigs above 300 .
Paton found that the difference in weight of the testes in thymusless and normal animals was not manifest .
The figures upon

