111 .
" On the Synthesis of Acetic Acid .
" By J. A. WANKLYN , Esq. Communicated by Dr. E. FUANKLAND .
Received April 27 , 1859 .
I have elsewhere * shown that a salt of propionic acid results when carbonic acid is brought into contact with a compound consisting of ethyl and an alkali-metal .
Guided by a well-knowa priniciple , I also inferred that an analogous reaction is common to the whole vinic series .
Believing , however , that it was desirable to investigate other members of the series , I have since undertaken the case of the corresponding methyl-compound , and find that it fully bears out the law , as will be manifest from the following details .
Some sodium-methyl in mixture with zinc-methyl , zinc , sodium , and ether was obtained by acting with sodium upon a strong ethereal solution of zinc-methyl .
The product so obtained was divided into two portions-one of which was exposed to the action of a current of dry carbonic acid , and the other reserved for comparison .
During the transmission of carbonic acid , the sodium-methyl became hot .
After the completion of the reaction , the resulting solid was treated with a little mercury , in order to convert any free sodium into an amalgam , which would not decompose water with too great violence .
Subsequent distillation of the product , with excess of dilute sulphuric acid , yielded a distillate having most distinctly the smell and taste of acetic acid .
This acid distillate was redistilled , when it proved to be free from sulphuric acid .
Some of it was converted into a silver-salt by digestion with oxide of silver .
This silver-salt was dissolved in hot water , filtered hot , and allowed to crystallize on cooling .
Ai abundant crop of crystals separated , which was draiined from the mother-liquor , the employment of a filter being avoided .
The crystals were afterwards dried in vacuo over sulphulric acid until they no longer lost weight .
Determinations of silher were made by ignition , the resulting silver being reheated and reweighed until it remained constant .

