III .
" On the Thermodynamic Theory of Waves of Finite Longitudinal Disturbance .
" By W. J. MACQUORN RANKINE , C.E. , LL. D. , F.R.SS .
Lond. &amp; Edin .
Received August 13 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present investigation is to determine the relations which must exist between the laws of the elasticity and heat of any substance , gaseous , liquid , or solid , and those of the wave-like propagation of a finite longitudinal disturbance in that substance-in other words , of a disturbance consisting in displacements of particles along the direction of propagation , the velocity of displacemrent of the particles being so great that it is not to be neglected in comparison with the velocity of propagation .
In particular , theinvestigation aims atascertaining : in the firstplace , what conditions as to the transfer of heat from particle to particle must be fulfilled in order that a finite longitudinal disturbance may be propagated along a prismatic or cylindrical mass without loss of energy or change of typethe word type being used to denote the relation between the extent of disturbance at a given instant of a set of particles and their respective undisturbed positions ; and , secondly , according to what law the type of a wave of finite longitudinal disturbance must change when the substance through which it is propagated has , un(der the circumstances of the disturbance , no appreciable power of transferring heat from particle to particle , being in the condition which , in the language of thermodynamics , is called adiabatic , The disturbed matter in these inquiries may be conceived to be contained a straight tube of uniform cross section and indefinite length .
The investigation is facilitated by the use of a quantity which the author calls the Mass-velocity or Somatic Velocity-that is to say , the mass of matter through which a disturbance is propagated in a urnit of time while advancing along a prism of the sectional area unity , also by expressing the reative positions of a series of transverse planes that travel along with a wave by means of the masses of matter contained between them , instead of by their distances apart .
Let such a transverse advancing platne coincide with that part of a wave of longitudinal disturbance at which the pressure P and bulkiness S* are equal to those corresponiding to the undisturbed condition ; it is shown that the value of the square of the mass-velocity is dP in TS , ( A ) The linear velocity of advance of the wave is obviously mS .
Let a second transverse plane advalnce alonig with the wave in such a manner that an invariable mass of matter is contained between it and the first advancing plane .
The condition of permnanence of type of disturbance is , that the distance between those planes sball be invariable .
Let T be the rate at which that distance varies , being positive when the second plane gains on the first plane ; it is shown that this quantity has the followinD valuedxtp-_Pm m($ -s ) ; ,..,.(B ) in which p and s respectively are the pressure and bulkiness at the second plane .
Hence the condition of permanence of type is expressed symbolically as follows : S_ d_ dP =m2 ( a constant). .
* ( C ) This relation between pressure and bulkiness is not fulfilled by any known substance , when either in atn absolutely non-conducting ' state ( called , in the language of thermody7namics , the adiabatic state ) or in a state of uniform temperature .
In order that it may be fulfilled , transfer of heat must go on between the particles affected by the wave-motion , in a certain manner depending on the thermodynamiefunction .
The value of the thermodynamic function is dU p-Jchyp log r+d+ U ; rddXv ( D ) in which J is the dynamical equivalent of a unit of heat , c the real specific heat of the substance , r the absolute temperature , X(r ) a function of the absolute temperature , which is =0 for all temperatures at which the substanice is capable of approximating indefinitely to the perfectly gaseous state , auid U the work which the elastic forces in unity of mass of the substance are capable of doing at the constant temperature r. The thermodynamic condition to be fuilfilled by a wave of permanient type is expressed by frd0=O .
, ( E ) In applying this equation to particular cases , 0 and T are to be expressed in terrns of p and s. It is shown to be probable that the only lonigitudinal disturbance which can be propagated with absolute permanence of type is a sudden disturbance ; and that the consequence of the non-fuilfilment of the conditioni of permanence of type is a tendenicy for every wave of gradual longitudinal disturbance to convert itself by degrees into a wave of sudden disturbance .
But although suddenness of disturbance may be approximated to , it cannot be absolutely and permanently realized ; whence it follows that the propagation of waves of longitudinal disturbance of absolutely permanent type for anl indefinite distance is impossible ; and this may be the cause of the absence of longitudinal vibrations from rays of light .
The laws of the advance of adiabatic waves are investigated ; that is , waves of longitudinial disturbance in which there is no transfer of heat , and in which consequently do=O ; and it is shown , by the aid of the equation marked ( B ) in this abstract , that the compressed parts of those waves tend to gain upon and at last overtake the rarefied parts , just as the crests of rolling waves in shallow water gaini upon and at last break into the troughs , the consequence being a gradual conversion of the adiabatic waves into waves of sudden disturbance , followed by a mutual interference of the compressed with the rarefied parts which leads to the energy of the waves being spent in molecular agitation .
It is also shown that the extreme values of the pressure and of the bulkiness are constant during the change of type ; and consequently that the respective velocities with which the plane of greatest compression gains upon and the plane of greatest rarefaction falls behind the plane of undisturbed density are uniform .
The values of the linear velocity of advance , inS , found for various modes of finite disturbance , all approximate , when the disturbance becomes indefinitely small , to the well-known value of the velocity of soulnd , viz. &gt; i d{Pg the relation between P and S being determined by the condition dq=O .
Supplement .
Received October 1 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) In this supplement the author of the paper refers to the previous investigations on waves of finite longitudinal disturbance by the following authors : Poisson , I Journal de l'Ecole Polytechnique , ' vol. vii .
cahier 14 , p. 319 Stokes , Philosophical Magazine , Nov. 1848 , S. 3 .
vol. xxxiii .
p : 349 .
Airy , Philosophical Magazine , June 1849 , S. 3 .
vol. xxxiv .
p. 401 .
Earnshaw , Philosophical Transactions , 1860 , p. 133 .
He points out to what extent the resuilts arrivedl at in his ow l ' paper are identical with those of the above-mentioned previous researches ; and he claims the following results as new:-The conditions as to transfer and transformation of heat which must be fulfilled in order that permanence of type may be realized , exactly or approximately , in a wave of finite longitudinal disturbanice in any elastic medium ; the types of wave which eniable such conditions to be fulfilled with a given law of the conduction of heat ; the velocity of advance of such waves ; and some special results as to the rate of change of type in adiabatic waves .
He also claims as new the method of investigation by the aid of mass-velocity and mass-coordinates , which he alleges to possess great advantages in point of simplicity .

