On the Grounds of the Method which Laplace has given in the second Chapter of the third Book of his Mecanique Celestefor computing the Attractions of Spheiroids of every Description .
By James Ivory , A.M. Communicated by Henry Brougham , Esq. F.R.S. Read July 4 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 1 .
] Sir Isaac Newton , who first considered the figure of the earth and planets , confined his view to the supposition of their having been originally in a fluid state ; and he cpnceived them to retain the same figure which they assumed in their primitive condition ; and those mathematicians who succeeded him in the same path of inquiry have seldom ventured beyond this limited hypothesis , and have shown , that when a body composed of one uniform fluid revolves about its axis , or even if it consists of several fluids of different densities , its parts will be in equilibrium , and it will preserve its figure when it has the form of an elliptic spheroid of revolution oblate at the poles .
But though the supposition of original fluidity of the mass simplifies the investigation , it does not seem to be warranted by what we see of the surface ; for in that case , Mr. Ivory observes , the arrangement of all the heterogeneous matters would have been according to their densities ; those least dense occupying the surface with gradual increase of density to the centre ; whereas , on the contrary , nothing can be more irregular than the density of such solid parts of the earth as come under our observation , and the elevation of continents above the level of the sea , as well as the depths of the different channels which contain the waters of the ocean .
Moreover , according to the latest and best observations made for the express purpose of determining the figure of the earth , it does not appear to be of any regular elliptic form .
Since the hypothesis of Newton is , therefore , not consonant to observation , it became necessary to consider the subject in a more enlarged point of view ; and D'Alembert has extended his researches to other figures beside the elliptic spheroid , and has invented a method of investigating the attractive force of a body of any proposed figure , and composed of strata , varying in density according to any given:law ; but his method , though ingenious , is destitute of the requisite simplicity .
Laplace has also treated this extremely difficult question with his usual skill , and has deduced the relation between the radius of the spheroid and the series for the attractive force , upon a point without or within the surface , in a manner admirably simple when the complicated nature of the question is considered .
In the course of his investigation , Laplace lays down a theorem , which he affirms is true at the surfaces of all spheroids that differ but little from spheres .
This proposition is enunciated in the 1ecanique Celeste in the most general manner , comprehending every case in which the attractive force is proportional to any power of the distance between the attracting particles .
But the demonstration which Laplace has given of this proposition appears to Mr. Ivory not to be conclusive .
It is , says he , defective and erroneous , because a part of the analytical expression is omitted without examination , and is rejected as evanescent in all cases ; whereas it is so only in particular spheroids , the radii of which are expressed by rational and integral functions of a point in the surface of a sphere ; and though the quantities which Laplace has omitted are then really equal to nothing , yet , says Mr. Ivory , this does not happen for any reason assigined by Laplace , but for a reason that has no manner of connexion with anything touched upon in his demonstration .
In order to avoid all discussions which are not of real use to the inquiry into the figures of the planets , Mr. Ivory confines his attention chiefly to the case of nature , in which attraction follows the law of the inverse proportion of the squares of the distances .
But he does also briefly examine the theorem of Laplace , in the general sense in which it is laid down in the Meccatnique Celeste ; and he admits , that when the exponent of the law of attraction is positive , and not less than unity , then the demonstration of Laplace is not liable to so much objection , and the theorem is in that case true to the full extent of his enunciation ; but he observes , that when the exponent is negative , then certain quantities become infinitely great , instead of being equal to nothing , as the theorem of Laplace would require them to be .
The writings of no author on any subject , says Mr. Ivory , are entitled to more respect than those of Laplace on the subject of physical astronomy ; and , consequently , it was not till after the most mature reflection that he has ventured to dissent from an authority for which he has the utmost deference .
But in a work of so great extent as the Mecanique Ce'leste , which treats of so great variety of subjects , all very difficult and abstruse , it could hardly be expected that no slips or inadvertencies have been admitted , even by an author whose knowledge of the subject he treats is so profound , and the

