A paper was communicated to the Society , entitled , " Experimen ?
tal Researches on Electricity , Third Series , " by Michael Faraday , Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I. , the reading of which was deferred to the next Meeting .
in the motion of one electric fluid in a particular direction , or of two fluids in contrary directions : and by the term arrangement , he understands a local adjustment of particles , or fluids , or forces , not pro ?
gressive .
By ordinary electricity , he understands that which can be obtained from the common electrical machine , or from the atmosphere , or by pressure , or cleavage of crystals , or similar mechanical operations 5 its character being that of great intensity , and the exertion of attrac ?
tive and repulsive forces , not merely at small but also at considerable distances .
The parallel between voltaic and ordinary electricity is then pursued by the production of evidence that those attractions and repulsions , which were thought to characterize the latter , are exhibited also by the former ; and that , on the other hand , ordinary electricity , when in motion , gives rise to an increase of temperature , to magnetic phenomena , to chemical decompositions , to physiological impressions , and to luminous appearances , precisely of the same kind as those which had been supposed to be the peculiar effects of voltaic electricity .
The experiments of Mr. Colladon , which seemed to show that a stream of common electricity has power to produce the deflexion of a magnet , ?
a conclusion which has hitherto rested on the single testimony of that experimentalist , ?
have been repeated and extended by Mr. Faraday , who completely confirms their accuracy , and the truth of the result that had been obtained from them .
The author succeeded in making common electricity assume more of the charac ?
ters of voltaic electricity , by availing himself of the retarding power of bad conductors interposed in the electric circuit .
In this way he easily succeeded in obtaining the same decisive evidence of chemical action by common electricity as Dr. Wollaston had done in his experiment .
But Mr. Faraday considers the experiment in which water is decomposed by this power , as affording no proof of electro-chemical agency ; because , as Dr. Wollaston had pointed out , both oxygen and hydrogen are evolved at each of the points of the interrupted circuit , and not separately at the respective poles .
The author regards the amount of electro-chemical decomposition as being proportional , not to the intensity , but to the quantity of electricity transmitted .
It is not effected by electricity passed from the machine in sparks , although these tend to decompose water into its constituent elements .
Some experiments of Bonijol on the decomposition of water by atmospherical electricity , are commented on by the author , who considers them as analogous to the experiment of Dr. Wollaston already referred to .
Mr. Faraday also makes some remarks upon Mr. Barry 's paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1831 , and suggests doubts of thesoundness of the inferences he draws from his experiments .
The author then proceeds to examine the electrical phenomena elicited by magneto-electricity , and shows that , as far as they have been observed , they coincide with those of voltaic electricity , and , consequently , are referrible to the same agency .
The only effects that have not been yet obtained are chemical decompositions .
The quantities of thermo-electricity that can be elicited in ordinary cases are too small to produce any effects but those of magnetism , and also muscular contractions in the limbs of frogs .
The animal electricity of the torpedo produces most of the effects of voltaic electricity , excepting the evolution of heat and light .
The general conclusion deduced by the author from these researches is , that electricity , what ?
ever beits source , is perfectly identical in its nature .
In the concluding chapter of the present paper , the author endeavours to establish some relation by measure between common and voltaic electricity .
He shows , by experiment , that whenever the same absolute quantity of electricity , whatever be its intensity , passes through the galvanometer , the deflecting force exerted upon the magnetic needle is invariably the same .
Hence this deflecting force may be taken as the measure of the absolute quantity o( transmitted electicity ?
a principle which establishes the value of the galvanometer as an instrument of measurement in all cases of electricity in motion .
The power of chemical decomposition he finds to be also directly as the quantity of transmitted electricity .

