81 Address of the President , Sir Archibald Geikie , K.C.B. , the Anniversary Meeting on November 30 , 1911 .
The first duty which devolves upon us at these Anniversaries is to take note of the losses by death which the Society has suffered during the year that has passed .
The sadness which cannot but be felt in recounting these losses and realising by how much poorer they have made the Society is , perhaps , somewhat lessened on the present occasion by the fact that our ranks have suffered rather less diminution than usual .
On the Home List we have lost thirteen Fellows , on the Foreign List only one .
At the Anniversary last year , in presenting the Copley Medal , I had an opportunity of briefly referring to some of the leading features in the career of Sir Francis Galton , to whom the Medal had been awarded .
Within a few weeks thereafter that distinguished man , full of years and honours , passed to his rest .
In the brief interval of these weeks , I had the pleasure of visiting him at his temporary home in the country , and of hearing from his own lips how greatly he was gratified that the Eoyal Society , of whose Fellowship he was always so appreciative , should have bestowed on him its highest honour .
It was , he said , the crowning distinction of his life .
I did not think at the time that it would be the last mark of recognition that would come to him , for he looked as well as he had done for a long time ; his keen interest in scientific progress was unabated , and his mind and memory clear as ever .
In him we mourn an accomplished and generous man of science , who devoted his long life and energies to the advancement of natural knowledge .
It is a pleasing remembrance to us that in conferring the Copley Medal upon him the Eoyal Society brightened the last days of one of the most loyal of its Fellows .
On the side of the physical sciences the Society has lost some prominent representatives .
In Dr. Johnstone Stony another has passed away of that brilliant band of physicists whom Ireland has given to science .
He died on July 1 last at the ripe age of 85 , carrying with him to the grave the affectionate regrets of a wide circle of friends , who appreciated his scientific labours and lifelong enthusiasm , and who esteemed his gentle and kindly nature .
Samuel Hawksley Burbury , who was a very regular attendant at our meetings , died on August 31 , in his 80th year .
He had at Cambridge a career which was remarkable for combining the highest honours in classical literature with mathematical distinction .
He was called to the Bar in VOL. lxxxvi.\#151 ; A. G Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 , 1858 , and , in the midst of his legal work , found time to extend his mathematical studies .
He thus became a high authority on the dynamical theory of gases and other branches of physical mathematics .
John Brown , formerly a linen manufacturer , of Belfast , who only died at the beginning of the present month , deserves to be remembered as another representative of the now dwindling , class of men of business , who devote their leisure to scientific pursuits and the promotion of knowledge .
His papers on the seat of the electromotive force in voltaic combinations , especially on the influence of the surrounding medium , contributed substantially to the elucidation of that subject .
He became a Fellow of the Society in 1902 .
Frederick Jervis-Smith , formerly Millard Lecturer in Experimental Mechanics at Trinity College , Oxford , and a devoted worker in that subject , was remarkable for his skill in the construction of delicate mechanical appliances in the laboratory which he fitted up in his College .
He was elected into the Society in 1894 , and died on August 23 last , at the age of 63 .
Mervyn Herbert Nevil Story-Maskelyne was the bearer of a name which is honoured in the history of science and in that of the Royal Society , and which received additional distinction from his own labours .
For almost forty years Professor of Mineralogy at Oxford , and for twenty years of that period likewise Keeper of the Department of Minerals in the British Museum , he Stood at the head of mineralogical science in this country .
By his lectures , his writings , and , above all , by his labours in the augmentation and arrangement of the admirable mineral collection in our National Museum , he did , much to encourage the study of mineralogy , which had been somewhat neglected in Britain .
John Attfield will be remembered for the value of his contributions to chemical pharmacology .
By his teaching and writings , and his constant personal exertions in raising the standard of education among pharmaceutical chemists , he rendered great service to the branch of applied science which he cultivated .
He died on March 18 at the age of 76 .
Besides these losses on the Home List from the ranks of our physicists and chemists , we have to record , with sincere regret , the death of one of the most notable of our Foreign Members , the illustrious Jacobus Henricus va n't Hoff .
His genius , combining a remarkable union of mathematical acumen , experimental resource , and faculty for bold and lofty generalisation , opened up new domains in chemistry .
His work on ' Chemistry in Space9 laid the foundations of stereo-chemistry , and his ' Studies in Chemical Dynamics ' placed that side of the science on a well established basis .
In recent years 1911 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
83 he has been engaged on a series of elaborate researches into the conditions in which deposits from saline solutions can be formed in the sea .
His papers on this subject throw fresh light on the history of accumulations of this nature which are intercalated among the strata of the earth 's crust , and his work is thus of interest alike to the chemist and the geologist .
On the side of the biological sciences , six of our Fellows have died during the past year .
The cause of research in tropical medicine has suffered a grievous loss by the premature death of Sir Hubert Boyce .
His career of only forty-eight years has been marked by unwearied energy and enthusiasm in the contest with the malignant diseases that are the scourge of man in tropical climates .
Not merely did he personally carry on researches in this country and encourage others to co-operate in the same cause , but , throwing himself into the breach , he again and again sailed to the Tropics for the purpose of enquiring into the maladies on the spot .
His labours , and those of the other investigators who have studied yellow fever , have been rewarded , and now that fatal malady has been successfully combated .
Of the physicians on the list of our Fellows we have to record the deaths of three eminent men .
John Hughlings Jackson was the founder of the modern school of neurology in this country .
Perhaps his greatest work was his discovery , on purely clinical grounds , of the localisation of function in the centre of the brain\#151 ; a discovery that has been verified and greatly extended by a long series of experimental researches by other observers .
Frederick William Pavy , for so many years a familiar figure at our meetings , has passed away in his eighty-third year .
He has held a high place among the physicians of his day , not only as an eminent practitioner , but as an accomplished and assiduous man of science , who devoted his long life mainly to one special branch of investigation\#151 ; the part played by sugar in the economy of the animal system .
The important bearing of his investigations on diabetes and other diseases has long been recognised both in this country and abroad .
Sir Samuel Wilks was remarkable for the keen insight shown in his recognition of the fact that medicine must rest on the science of pathology .
He devoted his life and teaching to the development of this principle .
His contributions to pathological knowledge were many and valuable in themselves , but they acquired additional importance from the correlation which he established between the findings of pathology and of morbid anatomy on the one hand , and the natural history of disease , as seen clinically , on the other .
To the end of his life he took the greatest and most appreciative interest in the new and striking developments of his own favourite science .
G 2 Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 , To our late associate , Dr. John Beddoe , the science of anthropology stands , greatly indebted .
Born in 1826 and educated for the medical profession , he began , when only 20 years of age , to make those observations on the facial and other features of living races which , throughout his busy professional life , he continued to prosecute till he became the most learned and accomplished authority on the anthropological history of the human races of Britain and of the European Continent .
The name of Thomas Eupert Jones has been for nearly two generations a household word among the palaeontologists and geologists of this country .
Although his own more particular branch of enquiry lay among the Entomostraca and Foraminifera of past ages , on which he was the highest authority , he possessed a wide range of acquirement in all departments of geology .
His ample stores of knowledge were always freely placed at the service of other workers in science .
Born in 1819 , he passed away last spring at the advanced age of 92 .
The Beport of the Council for the past year , now in the hands of the Fellows , gives a summary of the work on which the Society has been engaged since the last Anniversary .
There are one or two features in this Beport to which I should like to call attention .
In my Address last year I adverted to the history of seismological observation in this country and to the part taken in the development of this branch of observational science by our associate Dr. Milne .
I expressed the hope that means might be found to place his important service on a more permanent footing , with an enlarged staff and more generous financial aid .
Though no important advance has yet been made towards the realisation of this hope , the subject has not been lost sight of , and at least one useful step has been taken in the more complete equipment of Eskdalemuir Observatory as a seismological station .
There are now installed there the complete Galitzin apparatus and the twin Milne apparatus , which record photographically , and also the Wiechert and the Omori instruments , the observations of which are recorded on smoked paper .
To Prof. Schuster we are indebted for his generosity in presenting the Galitzin apparatus .
The various instruments , when completely put into working order , will supply valuable material for a comparison of results and will provide an important addition to the network of ' seismological stations in this country .
The addition of this seismological work to the other duties of the Superintendent of the Eskdalemuir Observatory has shown that an increase of the staff under his supervision is imperatively required .
The Gassiot Committee , after a full consideration of the subject , has recommended that a grant in aid for a limited period should 1911 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
85 be made by the Eoyal Society , and the Council , approving of the proposal , has granted a sum of \#163 ; 450 for the purpose of supplying an additional observer for two years , after which some other more permanent arrangement must be provided .
In the meantime the Council has been gratified by the gift of \#163 ; 200 from Mr. Matthew Gray for the purpose of assisting the progress of seismology at Eskdalemuir .
Fellows are aware that for many years past the Society has been conducting researches into the cause and prophylactic treatment of tropical diseases , and that these researches are still in progress .
Much information has been collected , and it is satisfactory to know that , since steps have been taken to remove the native population from the fly-belts , the areas affected by one of the most terrible of these maladies , Sleeping Sickness , have been considerably restricted .
But much remains to be accomplished before the knowledge of the subject can be made as complete as it should be .
As will be seen from the Eeport of the Council the investigation is now about to be extended far beyond the bounds originally contemplated .
It has been plausibly suggested that Sleeping Sickness may be transmitted from other sources than infected human beings , and the question arises whether the wild animals of tropical Africa may possibly supply the trypanosomes of that disease .
Accordingly , at the request of the Colonial Office , the Eoyal Society has organised and despatched a new Commission , under the directorship of Sir David Bruce , for the purpose of studying on the spot what may be the relation of the native fauna of Nyasaland and other parts of Africa to the spread of human trypanosomiasis , and what trypanosome diseases may affect the domestic animals of that region .
The composition of the staff has been carefully considered with a view to secure adequate attention to each of the various branches of investigation that are embraced in the wide enquiry which is projected .
It is interesting to know that Lady Bruce , who has all along been one of the most efficient observers in Africa , again accompanies her husband on this fresh expedition .
I may add that she is not the only lady engaged under our auspices in Africa ; Miss Eobertson , who has had considerable experience in the study of trypanosomes , has volunteered her services in Uganda and is now at the Mpumu laboratory , tracking the development and transmission of the organisms to which trypanosomiasis is due .
To what is said in the Council 's Eeport regarding the progress of the National Physical Laboratory I have one important addition to make .
The Fellows of the Society who may not have previously heard will now be grieved to hear of the serious illness which last month attacked our esteemed and accomplished colleague , the Director of the Laboratory .
After a time Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 , of painful suspense Dr. Glazebrook slowly began to recover , and is now happily on the high road to convalescence .
But it may be some months before he can again attend to the work of the Institution over which he presides with such constant assiduity and skill .
The ' Catalogue of Scientific Literature for the Nineteenth Century/ on which the Committee of the Royal Society has now been engaged for over fifty years , is speedily approaching completion .
The material for the final part ( 1883\#151 ; 1900 ) of the General Catalogue , which is classified under authors ' names , has been collected and sorted , and is nearly ready to pass through the press .
Of the subject-indexes of scientific papers for the nineteenth century , two volumes , Pure Mathematics and Mechanics , have been published ; and the Index for Physics , in two volumes , is well under way .
While the Committee do not claim perfection in detail for the classification of the subject-matter of those sciences , and while they are aware that the arrangement of so great a mass of material which must be condensed into small space will always be liable to technical criticism in details , they nevertheless believe that it may be confidently claimed that no person who in future shall set about a general investigation or an historical survey in any department of one of these sciences can afford to neglect consultation of this index .
It was felt to be worth while by so great a man as Thomas Young , a hundred years ago , to devote a large amount of time to the compilation of a classified index of the literature of Natural Philosophy , up to that date , when the achievement was just within the range of private enterprise .
The immense volume of the scientific literature of the last century could have been digested only by some corporate organisation ; and the whole scientific world have signified in advance their obligation to the Committee of the Society and to the generous benefactors who have assisted the Society in the work when its own funds had been depleted , by undertaking the continuation of the same work in the twentieth century as the ' International Catalogue of Scientific Literature/ Having gone to so much trouble and expense in the preparation of the materials for these subject-indexes , the Society is naturally desirous to see that the results become accessible to the scientific public , for whose use the volumes are intended .
All the funds which the Royal Society can possibly devote to this work are necessary for its completion ; thus there can be no question of free exchange , as was the case with the earlier volumes , however much the Royal Society might desire it .
But , as the Fellows are already aware , the Cambridge University Press have consented to undertake the entire risk of printing and publication , and have agreed to sell the volumes at a very moderate price .
We are informed that the volumes of the Index 1911 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
87 already issued have , for some reason , not yet attracted the attention among Universities and public libraries that was confidently anticipated .
I have therefore thought it desirable to bring this matter to notice to-day .
On July 15 of next year the Royal Society will have lived for exactly two centuries and a-half .
Looking back upon this long career , and considering the friendly relations which the Society has for generations maintained with the men of science in all quarters of the globe , the President and Council have thought that the occasion will be one which ought not to be passed over in silence , but which deserves to be marked in some worthy way .
They have accordingly decided to invite the chief universities , academies , scientific societies , and other institutions in this country , in our Colonial Dominions and abroad , to send delegates hither to join with us in celebrating our 250th birthday .
The invitations will be issued next month , so as to allow ample time for the selection and the arrangements of the delegates , and for our own preparations here .
Our patron , His Majesty the King , has been pleased to signify his appreciation of the importance of our proposed celebration .
Though the details of the function have not yet been settled , it is thought that the first reception and welcoming of our guests should be held in our own rooms , which , with their portraits and other memorials of our past , will doubtless be of interest to the visitors .
For the banquet , at which the Fellows and their guests will dine together , we hope to enjoy the use of a large hall specially lent to us for the occasion .
Considering the early association of the Royal Society with Gresham College and the City , we trust that some opportunity will be afforded to us of renewing that intercourse , and thus of allowing our delegates to partake of the well-known hospitality of London .
There will doubtless be a good deal of private hospitality .
Of course , every facility will be arranged for our guests to see public buildings , museums , libraries , and other objects of interest .
At the end of the function in London , the delegates may not improbably be invited to visit the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge .
As a permanent memento of the occasion , the Council has decided to reproduce in facsimile the pages of the Charter-book , containing the signatures of the Fellows from that of the founder , Charles II , down to the present day .
This interesting volume is now in course of preparation at the Oxford University Press .
It has also been arranged to issue a new edition of the Society 's ' Record/ in great part re-written , closely revised , and brought up to date .
This volume is also in progress .
Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 , MEDALLISTS , 1911 .
The Copley Medal .
The Copley Medal is this year awarded to Sir George Howard Darwin for his long series of researches on tidal theory , including its bearing on the physical constitution of the earth and on problems of evolution in the planetary system .
As regards the actual oceanic tides , he has perfected the method of harmonic analysis initiated by Lord Kelvin , and has greatly promoted its practical application by the invention of simplified methods of ascertaining the tidal constants of a port from the observations and of framing tide-tables .
In another series of researches the tides of a solid planet of slightly viscous material are investigated , including the consequent secular changes in the motion of the planet and of the tide-generating satellite .
He traced from this point of view the past history of the earth and moon , and was led to the now celebrated hypothesis that the latter body originated by fission from its primary when in a molten state .
He has further studied in great detail the classical problem as to the possible figures of equilibrium of a rotating mass of liquid and their respective stabilities , which has engaged in succession the attention of Maclaurin , Jacobi , Kelvin , and Poincare .
The difficult theory of a binary system composed of two liquid masses revolving in relative equilibrium , now known as Roche 's problem , has been greatly developed and extended by him .
Such investigations have , of course , an important bearing on the theory of the evolution of the earth-moon system already referred to .
The above is a mere summary of the main lines of Sir George Darwin 's activity .
There are in addition a number of highly important memoirs on more or less cognate subjects .
For example , in dealing with the question as to the degree of rigidity of the earth as it now exists , he has treated it from various points of view ; he has considered the theory of the long-period tides , and the stresses produced in the interior by the weight of continents and mountain chains .
The inferences of Kelvin and Darwin as to a high rigidity have , it is well known , been recently confirmed in a striking manner by the work of Hecker on the lunar disturbance of gravity .
It is to be observed in this connection that Darwin 's own early attempts ( in conjunction with his brother Horace ) to measure this lunar effect directly , though not immediately successful , have had a great influence on the subsequent history of the subject , as well as on seismometry .
Mention should also be made of remarkable papers on the history of 1911 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
89 meteoric swarms , and ( in the domain of the more classical astronomy ) on periodic orbits .
Sir George Darwin 's ' Collected Papers ' have now been published in four volumes by the Cambridge University Press .
They form a monument of analytical skill and power devoted persistently through a long series of years to the elucidation of a definite series of questions of the highest interest .
The difficulties of the tasks to which he has addressed himself are enormous ; but , although some of the conclusions only claim as yet to be provisional and speculative , a mass of definite achievement remains which will always rank as one of the most substantial contributions to the study of cosmic evolution .
Eoyal Medals .
The assent of His Majesty the King has been signified to the following awards of the two Royal Medals :\#151 ; The Royal Medal on the physical side was assigned to Prof. George Crystal , of Edinburgh University , on account of his contributions to mathematical and physical science , especially , of late years , to the study of seiches on lakes .
Conspicuous in his early years as one of Clerk Maxwell 's principal lieutenants , it is to him that we owe the experimental proof of the extreme precision of Ohm 's law of electric conduction ( ' Brit. Assoc. Report , '1876 ) .
His memoir on the differential telephone ( 'Trans .
Roy .
Soc. Edin .
, ' 1880 ) was a notable early extension of the theory and practice of Maxwell 's principles as regards inductances , now become more lamiliar when power transmission , as well as telephonic intercourse , proceeds by use of alternating currents .
His duties as a teacher of mathematics led to the ' Treatise on Algebra , ' which , besides being a book of original vein , was the earliest systematic exposition in our language of the more rigorous methods demanded in recent times in algebraic analysis .
But this purely mental discipline , and its continuation in various memoirs on abstract mathematics , could not wholly occupy a mind trained originally in the school of physical science .
Of late years Prof. Crystal has been engaged with great success in a most interesting subject of research , in the theory and the observation of the free persisting oscillations of level in lakes , first observed and analysed by Forel on the Lake of Geneva .
By this work he has , on the one hand , added a new interest to the scenery and the physical geography of the Highlands , and , on the other hand , has extended the domain of the exact application of the principles of mathematical hydrodynamics .
At the moment when the Council was adjudicating this Medal it was unaware that the illustrious mathematician at Edinburgh was then lying on Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 his death-bed .
He had been in failing health for some time , but the latest news was more favourable .
The end came , however , before he could learn that a Eoyal Medal had been assigned to him .
In these circumstances it was felt that the award should not be cancelled , but that the Medal should be transmitted to his family as a visible token of the admiration with which the Eoyal Society regards his life-work .
On appealing for the sanction of the Eoyal donor of the Medal , His Majesty was pleased to approve of our proposal , and to add an expression of his condolence : " The King trusts that you will be so good as to convey to the family the assurance of His Majesty 's sincere sympathy in the terrible loss that they have sustained , through which so distinguished a career has been brought to a close .
" Those who had personal acquaintance with Prof. Chrystal mourn the extinction of a life full of charm and brightness .
The Eoyal Medal on the biological side has been awarded to William Maddock Bayliss , F.E.S. During the last twenty-five years , the part taken by Dr. Bayliss in the advancement of physiology has , perhaps , been unequalled by any other physiologist in this country .
His work has ranged over a wide field .
In his earlier papers dealing with the electrical phenomena associated with the excitatory state in glands and contractile tissues , he brought forward results which were , at the time , entirely novel , and have formed the basis of all subsequent investigations .
His paper with Starling on the electrical phenomena of the mammalian heart was the first to give the correct form of the normal variation , as confirmed by later investigations with the string galvanometer .
Another subject which has engaged his attention at intervals during the whole of his career has been the question of the innervation of the blood vessels .
In conjunction with other workers , he took a prominent part in mapping out the course of the vaso-constrictor fibres through the sympathetic system .
More important is his work on vaso-dilator nerves and the part played by them in vascular reflexes .
His confirmation of the earlier observations of Strieker , and his proof that the vaso-dilator impulses are carried as " antidromic " impulses in the fibres ordinarily subserving sensation , effected a revolution in our conceptions of nerve conduction , and showed that the law of Bell and Majendie , previously accepted as of universal application , did not express the whole truth , and that , in fact , a nerve fibre is normally the seat of processes which are both centripetal and centrifugal .
A third group of researches is represented by those on the innervation , intrinsic and extrinsic , of the intestines .
Up to the appearance of the paper , written by him in conjunction with Starling , on the movements of .
1911 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
91 the small intestine , the whole question was in the utmost confusion .
For the first time these observers showed conclusively that the movements of the intestine are under the control of a local nervous system ; and , even to the present time , the intestines are the only organs in higher animals which have been shown to be the seat of a local nervous system capable of carrying out co-ordinated reflexes .
A fourth group of papers deals with the mechanism of the pancreatic secretion .
These researches , which by themselves would be sufficient to justify the award of the Eoyal Medal , were also carried out in partnership with his colleague , Prof. Starling .
For many years physiologists have-assumed the production of internal secretions by different organs which might influence other parts of the body .
In these researches on the pancreas the first definite proof was brought forward of the production of a chemical substance in one organ , the duodenum , and its passage by the blood to another organ , the pancreas , as a result of events occurring in the duodenum .
The secretion of pancreatic juice on the entry of the acid chime into the duodenum had been previously regarded as a nervous reflex .
Bayliss and Starling showed that it was a chemical reflex , i.e. , effected by the production of a specific chemical messenger which travelled by the blood , and not by the stimulation of nerve endings and the passage of impulses through nerves and the central nervous system .
They showed , moreover , that this secretin was but a type of a whole group of substances which they designated hormones .
The discovery of these hormones , and the precise definition of their nature and of the conditions of their activity , mark an important epoch in the development of our knowledge of the organs of the animal body .
The discovery of secretin afforded for the first time a convenient and easy method of obtaining pancreatic juice in large quantities .
The investigation of the properties of pancreatic juice and of the activation of its chief proteolytic ferment by another ferment , enterokinase , secreted by the intestinal mucous membrane , has led Bayliss to a further series of researches on the mode of action of enzymes and on the closely related questions with regard to the nature of colloidal solutions .
The value of this work has been universally recognised .
The book on the nature of enzyme action in which Bayliss ' researches are summarised has already appeared in German , while his most recent work on the osmotic pressure of colloids , as studied in solutions of colloidal dye-stuffs , is a model of the manner in which such investigations should be carried out .
Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
[ Nov. 30 , Davy Medal .
The Davy Medal is this year assigned to Prof. Henry Edward Armstrong , E. R.S. , on account of his researches in organic and in general chemistry .
Eor many years he has been engaged , partly alone and partly in collaboration with many of his students and others , in the investigation of a number of important problems in organic chemistry .
His series of memoirs on the terpenes , on the chemical and physical relationships which obtain among the isomerides of the naphthalene and the benzene series , and on physiological chemistry , have established a strong claim for recognition .
In addition to his direct scientific work , he has taken an active part in the discussion and criticism of current theories , and has put forward views on chemical change and on other subjects which have suggested fruitful lines of enquiry .
Gifted with a scientific imagination , interested in the work of others , exceptionally well informed as to recent progress not only in chemistry but also in cognate sciences , he has had a stimulating effect on his fellow chemists , and has done much to bring together for their mutual benefit the workers in different fields .
Hughes Medal .
The Hughes Medal has been assigned to Charles Thomson Rees Wilson , F. R.S. , in recognition of the value of his contributions to our knowledge of the nuclei produced in dust-free gases , and of his investigations upon the nature and properties of ions in gases .
Following up the well-known work of Aitken on dust nuclei , Mr. Wilson devised a special apparatus for producing a sudden cooling of a gas saturated with water vapour .
After completely freeing the gas from dust particles he found that water was condensed on a few nuclei after an expansion of volume greater than 1*25 , and that a dense cloud was formed when it exceeded T38 .
This work was in progress at the time of the discovery of X-rays .
He immediately tried the effect of passing this radiation through the gas in the expansion chamber , and found that a dense cloud of fine water drops was produced for all expansions greater than 1*25 .
In this way he showed that the charged ions produced in gases by the X-rays became nuclei for the condensation of water at a definite supersaturation .
This investigation was of great importance ; for not only did it bring to light a very striking property of the gaseous ions , but it illustrated in a concrete way the process of ionisation in a gas , and the discontinuous nature of electrical charges .
By this method each charged ion is rendered visible by becoming a centre of condensation of vapour .
In later work he investigated the efficiency of the positive and negative ions 1911 .
] Anniversary Address by Sir A. Geikie .
93 respectively as centres of condensation ; and he showed that equal numbers of ions were produced by X-rays and by the rays from radioactive substances .
The effect of other agencies in producing nuclei in gases was examined in detail .
The results of these experiments , which are now classical , were communicated in a series of memoirs published in the 'Philosophical Transactions/ This condensation property of ions , discovered by Wilson , was utilised by Sir J. J. Thomson to count the number of ions present , and to determine that fundamental electrical unit , the charge carried by an ion in gases .
Recently Mr. Wilson has perfected the expansion method to detect the effects of individual a- and / 3-particles .
The path of each a- or / 3-particle through the gas is marked out by condensation of water upon the ions it produces , and the trails showing the paths of the particles can be photographed .
He has also obtained photographs illustrating the distribution of ions due to the passage of X-rays through a gas , which show clearly the trails of the / 3-particles liberated from the atoms of matter .
These experiments are of the greatest interest and importance , and visualise in a remarkable way the fundamental properties of these radiations .
A further study by this extraordinarily delicate method promises not only to afford a practical means of counting the a- and / 3-particles in a gas , but also to throw light upon some of the more important and recondite effects , produced by the passage of different types of ionising radiation .
Mr. Wilson was one of the first to investigate the so-called natural ionisation of gases ; he devised a simple type of electroscope for this purpose , which has come into general ' use , and he has constructed a tilted electroscope of great sensibility , which is now widely used for measurements of ionisation .
He has also directed his attention to atmospheric electricity ; he has devised an instrument for measuring accurately the current which passes from the upper atmosphere to the earth , and has determined the value of this current under different conditions .

