]\gt ; 1902 .
] Cubical Expansion of Ice , etc. , at Low .
237 Lastly , in the rhipidoglossate Gastropods , there is a caecum but appa rently no sac .
In conclusion , it would therefore appear that the so-called gizzard of Spirula and , and consequently the similar organ which appears in other Cephalopods , is in reality the homologue of the style-sac of the Gastropods and the Lamellibranchiata .
That in the Cephalopods only that portion of the gastric tube which lies betwesn the orffice of the oesophagus and the intestine is the true stomach an consequently comparable to the true stomach of the Gastropods , while , lastly , the valvular diverticulum in relation to the " " bile duct\ldquo ; in the Cephalopods is unquestionably the homologue of the similarly related and so-called Qpiral caecum which projects from the true stomach of the Gastropods .
" " Coefficients of the Cubical Expansion of Ice , Hydrated Salts .
Solid Carbonic cid , and other Substances at Low Temperatures By JAMES DEWAR , M.A. , D.Sc .
, .D .
, Jacksonian Professor , University , and Fullerian Professor , Royal Institution , London .
Received April 16 , \mdash ; 1ead May 1 , 1902 .
The apparent specific gravities of boiling liquid oxygen which resulted from weighing in the liquid a series of metals and other substances were given in a lecture entitled ' ' New Researches on Liquid Air prinbed in the Royal vion ' Proceedings ' for 1896 .
For instance , silver , calc spar , rock crystal , and iodide of silver gave the respective apparent densities , and .
On correcting the weight of liquid displaced by each substance for contraction to \mdash ; by calculating Fizeau mean coefficient of expansion for the range of ture employed , on the assumption that the parabolic formula might be legitimately extended to low temperatures , \mdash ; it was found that the real density of liquid oxygen so deduced for all the bodies used was , as a mean , The determination of the densities of substances at the temperature of the boiling-point of oxygen , \mdash ; and hence of their mean coefficients of expansion between that temperature and ordinary temperatures , \mdash ; opens out a very large field of investigation , from which , if a sufficiently large number of observations were availal ) , valuable deductions might be drawn .
On account , , of the expense and trouble of producing quantities of liquid oxygen , its use for this purpose is not likely to become general , although , wheIl available , it is the easiest body to use in conducting such expcriments , especially when the vacuum vessel containing it is immersed in a larger vessel ing the same fluid or well evaporated air .
The ease with which liquid When the body to be examined was a salt , it was employed in the form of a compressed block .
One experiment was , however , made in a section of a large crystal of chrome alum .
The salt , previously reduced to a fine powder , was moistened with water and compressed in a cylindrical steel mould under great hydraulic pressure .
compression the saturated salt solution drained alvay , and finally a cylindrical block of some 50 grammes of the salt was obtained free from porosity and hard enough to allow its surface to be polished .
In * As the correction due to the contraction of the silver between the tempel:ature of boiling oxygen that of the air sample is small , it may bo cted .
of Ice , etc. , at Low peratures .
239 this form salts and other materials similarly treated are especially adapted for accurate specific gravity determlIlatlons .
After such treatment it was found that all the mechanically attached water was got rid of in the case of hydrated saIts , and also in such as di not did combine with water .
In order to get rca oc lindrical blocks of the salts showing no porositythe pressnce of water , or rather the saturated salt solution , was found to be essential during the application of pressure .
In the same way it was found to be an advantage in compressing buch a substance as solid carbonic acid , to moisten it with a like ether before applying the hydraulic pressure .
Recalling the work of Playfair and Jonle , which originated in a suggestion of Dalton 's that the volume of a bydrated salt in solution was simply the volume of the water of crystallisation , ice and some hydrated salts were selected , as well as .
some other bodies whose coefficients of expansion they had determlned .
Substances of special interest were included in the list , like cury , sulphur , iodine , and solid carbonic acid , the latter being particularly important as an example of a solidifisd gas .
In the further conduct of an experiment the observations made on a substance were three , namely : ( A ) the weight in grammes of the substance and suspending platinum wire , either in air of about C. temperature or in the gaseous air in the flask containing .
the liquid air ; ( B ) the weight in grammes of the body and wlre when ]mnlersed in the liquid air ; and ( C ) the weight in grammes of the spending platinum wire in ordinary air .
This wire was bent into form of a small cage , to hold the compressed cylinder or portion of the substance to be examined .
( C ) was measured once for all for each cage , and in the different cases varied from about to gramme .
The relative portion of wire not immersed in liquid air was so small that no appreciable error will be made in ( B ) by considering that the whole of the wire was immersed .
Further , no allowance is made for the air displaced by the weights themselves .
The observed weights ars thersfore connected wioh the weights and specific gravltles of the substances concerned by the very approximate relations * on Atomic Volume and Specific \ldquo ; 'Chem .
Soc. Jour .
, vol. 1 , 121 .
Prof. J. Dewar .
of the Cubical where true weight of substance examined , true weight of platinum wire , specific gravity of substance specific gravity of liquid air , when was observed , specific gravity of gaseous air when A was observed , specific gravity of platinum .
From these relations we derive instead of which we may write correcting factor .
A-B The correcting factor is 1- ' which in the present circumstances differs from unity only by a few units 10,000 .
In the subjoined Table I given the values of A-C , A-B an for each observation .
In the case of substances of less density than liquid air , a polished copper ball weighing about 38 grammes was used as a sinker .
details of the ice experiments , three in number , are given in Table IL Two experiments were made on compressed cylinders of solid carbonic acid .
In the first of thess the carbonic acid was compressed dry , iu the second , after a few drops of ether were added .
The specific gravities of solid mercury , iodine , and sulphur were also determined in liquid air .
The iodine lvas in the form of a compressed cylinder , but the sulphur was a piece of a crystalline mass of native origin .
The specffic gravity of the actual portion of bhe substance weighed in the liquid air , with one or two exceptions , determined also at the temperaturs of the laboratory , about C. From the two sets of observations the value of the mean coefficient of cubical expansion etween 1 C. , and the temperature of liquid air , was calculated .
In calculating coefficients of expansion , various forms may be given to the formula employed , and correspondingly different resuIts may be obtained from the same set of observations .
For short ranges of temperature these results are practically identical , bm this no longer holds for a range of temperature such as , have in these experiments .
2902 .
] Expansion of Ice , etc. , at Low Temperatures .
241 All that is possible in the present instance is to adopt alinear formula .
The usual formula is , where the value at C. becomes at C. when is the coefficient of expansion .
If we use densities ( d ) instead of volumes ( v ) this formula becomes , or ; Another formula , when and are the temperatures dealt with , is or ; Again or ; Also we may choose a mean formula .
000576 .
The differences in the results of applying these formulae are shown in the numerical values attached to each , which are calculated from the first experiment on solid carbonic acid in Table III , coupled with the specific gravity of the solid at C. Perhaps as a matter of general convenience , the first of these formulae is the best ; however , the second was chosen to conform with the old work of PIayfair and Joule , and it is the results of this formula which appear in the table .
The temperature range is taken from about C. to C. , unless otherwise stated .
Ice.\mdash ; In determining the density at the temperature of liquid air of pieces of clear ice cut from large blocks , both the silver and copper alls already referred to were used as indicated .
The true weight in ( of the silver ball was grammes , and that of the copper was grammes .
The observations and results are given in Cable II .
The mean of the three densities at C. is Recently has redetermined the density of artificial ice at he freezing-point , and also its coefficient of expansion .
He fin\amp ; the density to be , or from his tabulated resuIts .
Playfair Joule find the mean of densities given by eight observers previous to them , to be , and they themselves get ; Bunsen found it to be .
If we take this most recent determination , namely , at , and at , and use the formula we get * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1901 .
VOL. LXX .
has been observed by Professor Pointing that if we suppose water could be cooled without freezing , then taking Brunner 's coefficient for ice , and Hallstrom 's formula for the volume of water at temperatures below C. , it follows that ice and water would have the same specific volume at some temperatiure between and ; applying the ordinary thermodynamic relation , then no change of state between ice and water could be brought about below this temperature .
On the other hand , Clausius has shown that the latent heat of fusion of ice must be lowered with the temperature of fusion some of a unit degree .
If such a decrement is assumed to be constant , then about the latent heat of fluidity would vanish .
Baynes discusses the same subject , S and arrives at the conclusion that at a temof C. and under a pressure of 16,632 atmospheres * ' ' Change of State , Solid , Liquid .
Mag 1881 .
MechaIlical Theory of Heat , ' p. 172 ( 1879 ) .
In my paper " " On the Lowering of Freezing-point of Water by Pressure ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1880 , it was proved that up to 7(K ) ntmospheres tho rate of fall was constant and equal to the theoretical value within the range of pressure if difference between the specific volumes of ice and water remain constant ; ence the latent heat of fusion must diminish just as Clausius had predicted .
S 'Lessons on herulodynamics , ] ( 1878 ) .
1902 .
] Expansion of Ice , etc. , at .
243 there is no distinction between the solid and liquid forms of water .
At temperatures below this limit no amount of pressure would transform ice into water .
are thus relieved from a difficulty that would follow but for this demonstration of Clausius , namely , that the application of enormous to ice , even at temperatures below that of liquid hydrogen , might cause the transformation of ice into water .
Acid.\mdash ; Two were made with this substa11ce , the masses in each case about 20 grammes .
These were compressed ormer was comp .
the former was com ressed dry , while the latter was slightly moistened with ether .
The data and results are given in Table III .
The density of solid carbonic acid at its was formerly given as the mean of my resuIts at the time came to .
Recently the same value has been found by Behn .
Taking this and , the mean of the above results at \mdash ; l888 C. , and using the we get This is a large coefficient of expansion , being greater than that of any substance recorded in Tabl I , and comparable with that of sulphur between and , which , according to Kopp , is The coefficient of liquid carbonic acid at its meltlng-pol1lt taken from the recent observations of is , so that the rate of expansion of the liquid at its smallest value is very nearly five times that of the solid .
Solid \mdash ; One experiment was made with solid mercury , of which the details are given in Table I. Mallet determined with great accuracy the density of solid mercury at , his result being ; coupling this with the found for the liquid-air temperature , we find the value of the coefficient of expa1lsion between the melting-point and C. is .
For fluid mercury above C. the mean value is about , so that in the solid state this coefficient is about half of that in the fluid state .
Notes on the of Sodium , extending down to low temperatures , has a coefficient about the same as that of mercury at the ordinary temperature .
The coefficient for sulphur is about half of between and , being , and that of iodine is not far removed from the value glven for the solid at ordinary temperatures .
The rate of expansion of liquid iodine is about three times this Paraffi ought to have a value of from Rodwell 's , coefficient between and is .
The value foumd for 'Proc .
Roy .
Inst 1878 , " " Liquefaction of Gases 'Chem .
Jour 1901 .
Table III.\mdash ; Solid Carbonic Acid .
ammonium gave nearly the same value , and the result is in agreement with that found by Playfair and Joule , .
If a Fizeau coefficient for this salt is calculated , the valus is , which in this case is far too small .
The coefficient found for oxalic acid is again only a little smaller than that given by Playfair and Joule , viz. , .
As regards ths hydrated salts , phosphate of soda , hyposulphate of soda , and chloride of calcium , having the respective values , and , as found by Kopp , the low temexpansion , and such observations couId only be applied with ease to metallic bodies and alloys .
Report of Absolute Magnetic Observations at the Valencia Observatory ( Cahirciveen , co .
Kerry ) , 1899 , 1900 , and 1901 By J. E. .
Communlcated by The EARL OF ROSSE , .
Received Apri112 , \mdash ; Read Apri124 , 1901 .
As far back as 1887 the late Professor FitzGerald , of Trinity College , Dublin , expressed a desire for a series of magnetic observations to be made in Ireland , when the writer offered to undertake the work if he was provided with instruments , and obtained the consent of the Meteorological Council .
Thislvas done , and an old pattern unifilar by Jones , with a dip circle by Barrolv , being loaned by Trinity College , experimental observations were commenced in a wooden hut erected in the Observatory grounds in Valencia Island , with funds supplied by the Royal Irish Academy .
The result of the first few years of this series was published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy , ' and the observations were continued until the end of 1896 .
The observatory was removed in 1892 to Cahirciveen , about 4 miles eastward .

