322 The Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures.\#151 ; Experiments on Salol and Betol .
By H. A. Miers , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Waynflete Professor of Mineralogy in the University of Oxford , and Miss F. Isaac , Research Fellow of Somerville College .
( Received April 15 , \#151 ; Read May 2 , 1907 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE I. The crystalline form of salol and betol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
325 II .
The temperature of spontaneous crystallisation of salol ... ... ... ... . .
327 ( a ) Experiments with sealed tubes ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
327 ( b ) Stirring in an open vessel ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
328 ( c ) Crystallisation by means of friction in a closed tube ... ... . .
330 III .
The temperature of spontaneous crystallisation of betol ... ... ... ... . .
331 ( a ) Experiments with sealed tubes ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 331 ( b ) Stirring in an open vessel ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 331 IV .
The solubility or freezing-point curve for mixtures of salol and betol ... 332 ( a ) The melting point of salol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 333 ( b ) The melting point of betol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
333 ( c ) Solubility of salol in betol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
334 ( d ) Solubility of betol in salol ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
336 Y. The supersolubility curve for mixtures of salol and betol ... ... ... ... .
339 ( a ) Experiments with sealed tubes ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 340 ( b ) Stirring in an open vessel ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 341 ( c ) Spontaneous crystallisation below the liypertectic temperature ... 342 VI .
The refractive indices of mixtures of salol and betol ... ... ... ... ... . .
344 VII .
Conclusion ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 349 In a previous paper by the present authors , it was shown that , for the aqueous solutions of certain salts , a definite curve may be traced which gives the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation for a supersaturated solution of any given strength .
" Spontaneous crystallisation " is to be understood to signify that , at and below these temperatures , crystallisation may be started by purely mechanical means .
This curve , to which they have given the name of " super solubility curve " ( SH or sH of fig. 1 ) , is , for the salts examined by them , nearly parallel to the solubility curve ( ME or mE of fig. 1 ) , and generally separated from it by an interval of about 10 ' .
To use Ostwald 's phraseology , it indicates , on the temperature-concentration diagram , the boundary between the area representing the " jpetastable " condition , in which crystallisation can only take place in contact with a solid crystal , and the area representing the " labile " condition , in which crystallisation may take place spontaneously .
Previous investigators have usually endeavoured to trace the process of Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
323 crystallisation in alloys , fusion mixtures , and solutions , by determining the constitution of the solid which separates .
We have endeavoured rather to determine the changing constitution of the liquid , making use of the refractive index for this purpose .
The curve was traced , not only by means of the refractive index , which attains a maximum value at the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation , but also by the development of a dense cloud of crystals , which makes its appearance at the same temperature when the solution is stirred .
This we term a " labile " shower , in order to distinguish it from the much thinner " metastable " showers , which may occur before ~Percen\#163 ; cufe of Q Fig. 1 .
this temperature is reached .
Solutions enclosed in sealed tubes , so as to be preserved from chance inoculation by dust of the crystalline solid , cannot be made to crystallise by shaking at any temperature higher than that given by the supersolubility curve .
Subsequent experiments ( not yet published ) have traced similar supersolubility curves for mixtures of aqueous solutions of such substances as sodium nitrate and lead nitrate .
In none of these experiments was it possible to carry the observations down to the temperature at which the other component , water , begins .
z 2 Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 , to separate in the solid form .
We have , however , endeavoured to determine the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation for pure supercooled water* and have shown reason to believe that it is not far from that of the maximum index .
The present investigation was undertaken with the object of tracing the supersolubility curves for mixtures of two substances , in which the freezing-point curves of the two components can be determined down to the eutectic temperature and below it .
If such curves can be traced , it may be predicted that the conditions of crystallisation will be indicated by the accompanying diagram , in which M and m are the melting points of the components A and B respectively , E is their eutectic point , and ME , mE are their solubility curves .
S and s are the solidifying points , or the temperatures at which A and B freeze spontaneously ; and SH , sH are the supersolubility curves meeting in what we call the " hypertectic point " H. The changes in a cooling liquid initially of composition x containing excess of A , and protected from inoculation by A , will in general be represented by a movement of the figurative point , which denotes the temperature and constitution of the liquid , along the line Xabf E , the first crystals making their appearance at b. But the diagram shows that the liquid , if sufficiently rapidly supercooled , may exhibit no less than four freezing points , a , b , c , d , of which c represents the separation of the constituent B if the solid phase B be present , and cl its spontaneous separation ; and none of these coincides with the eutectic temperature .
Multiple freezing points are not unusual in alloys .
In his paper on " Surfusion in Metals and Alloys , Boberts-Austen remarks that some alloys seem to have three freezing points , but concludes that one of these coincides with the eutectic temperature .
In most experiments upon alloys and other mixtures , it has been usual to prevent any appreciable supersaturation by inoculating the liquid and by keeping it agitated ; or , when experiments have been made with supercooled liquids , they have generally been cooled far below the supersolubility curves in order to determine the rate of growth at lower temperatures .
The substances chosen for our experiments were salol , the phenyl salicylate , which melts at 42^ ' , and betol , the / 3-naphthol salicylate , which melts at about 92 ' .
* ' Chemical News/ 1906 , vol. 94 , p. 89 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc./ 1898 , vol. 63 , p. 452 .
1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
325 I. The Crystalline Form of Salol and Betol .
The form of salol obtained from solution in alcohol has been determined by Wyrouboff* and Milchf as orthorhombic ; the crystals occur in plates of rhombic outline , tabular owing to the predominance of { 010 } , having their edges bevelled by { 111 } and { 212 } .
The angle of the rhomb is 71 ' 30 ' ; the double refraction is very strong ; a positive bisectrix is perpendicular to ( 010 ) ; the plane of the optic axes ( which are inclined at a wide angle ) contains the axes b and c , and is therefore parallel to the shorter diagonal of the rhombic plate .
Examined under the microscope , a drop of solution of salol in ether readily yields rhombic plates possessing these characters .
TammannJ mentions three different modifications of salol ( I , II , and III ) , melting respectively at 42 ' , 38'*8 , and 28'*5 .
I is the commercial salol , II he describes as forming between 0 ' and 37 ' , and III at \#151 ; 20 ' .
In the course of these experiments , we have not observed more than one modification , namely , that whose melting point was found to be 42'*5 , which is described in this paper on p. 333 .
Salol II has not been observed , and the temperature has not been sufficiently low to produce the Salol III mentioned by Tammann .
The form of betol has not hitherto been determined .
We find that , from solution in ether , it readily crystallises in plates , belonging to the monoclinic system , which are parallelograms having a plane angle of 84 ' .
These plates are due to the predominance of { 010 } , and have their edges bevelled by { 110 } and { Oil } .
The double refraction is very strong ; a positive bisectrix is perpendicular to ( 010 ) ; and the plane of the optic axes ( which are inclined to one another at a wide angle ) makes an angle of 17 ' with the edge [ 010 : 011 ] .
Some crystals also show faces of { 012 } .
The measured angles are\#151 ; 010 : 110 = 75 ' 28 ' 010 : 011 = 55 ' Hi ' 100 : Oil = 84 ' 38 ' from which\#151 ; a:b : c = 0*26094 : 1 : 0*69980 \#163 ; = 83 ' 27* ' The obtuse bisectrix makes an angle of 11 ' with the normal to ( 100 ) , and of 72i ' with the normal to ( 001 ) .
In the following experiments upon the crystallisation of salol and betol * ' Bull .
Soc. Min./ 1889 , vol. 12 , p. 443 .
t ' Liebig 's Ann./ 1893 , vol. 273 , p. 82 .
t ' Zeit .
Phys. Chem./ 1899 , vol. 29 , p. 71 .
Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 , from the molten substances , and from their mixtures , salol always crystallised in the open trough in white discs or aggregates of discs , often forming spherical groups or large circular plates .
Drops of the various liquids were also examined under the microscope , during crystallisation , when the individual crystals of salol presented the appearance sometimes of rounded or perfectly circular discs , sometimes of rhombic plates .
These always showed a positive bisectrix perpendicular to the plane of the plate ; and there is no reason to doubt that the discs are of the same material as the plates , which they resemble also in refraction and birefringence .
The rhombic plates only appeared in mixtures not far removed from the eutectic in composition .
In all other drops , salol crystallised in rounded discs .
Pure salol , when rapidly supercooled to about 6 ' , yielded large rhombic plates having the form and optical properties described above .
There is , therefore , no evidence that in our experiments salol crystallises in more than one modification .
Betol always crystallised in the open trough in the form of fine fibres , or in spherical tufts of fibres radiating from a centre .
When a drop of a mixture containing excess of salol was allowed to crystallise under the microscope , it was possible to distinguish the betol from the salol , not only by the contrast between fibres and discs , but also by the fact that salol crystals , having nearly the same refractive index as the liquid , are nearly invisible when viewed by ordinary light , whereas the betol fibres are easily seen .
The question now arises whether these fibres are identical with the crystals obtained from solution in ether ; Tammann mentions four varieties of betol , I , II , III , and IY , two melting at 95 ' , the others at 93 ' and 91 ' respectively .
In the course of these experiments , we have observed three modifications of betol : ( A ) The monoclinic plates described above , derived from solution in ether , which appear to melt at about 92 ' ; ( B ) tufts which melt at about 90 ' ; ( C ) plates of rhombic outline having a plane angle of 71 ' , which extinguish at an angle inclined at about 3 ' to the longer diagonal of the rhomb , and are positively birefringent .
The plates ( C ) showed an optic axis on the edge of the field and an acute ( ?
) bisectrix not perpendicular to the plates .
They appeared to melt at about the same temperature as the monoclinic plates ( A ) described above .
These plates ( C ) only appeared as extremely small rhombs , with the obtuse angle truncated , in a mass of betol which had been allowed to crystallise very slowly between 80 ' and 90 ' , and since all the experiments on spontaneous crystallisation mentioned in this paper take place at temperatures lower than 80 ' , it is not probable that these rhombs crystallised in any of the mixtures examined .
1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
327 The tufts ( B ) usually appeared spontaneously when a drop of betol was supercooled to the temperature of the room , whereas the plates ( A ) appeared at a higher temperature and scarcely grew at all in a cold drop .
Occasionally needle-shaped crystals appeared in the betol drops , and also thinner plates which formed in a ring round the plates ( A ) , and extinguished uniformly with them between crossed nicols .
These polarised in bright colours , but did not show any regular form .
When heated , however , the whole mass liquefied at precisely the same temperature ; the needles and thin plates are , therefore , probably the same as the plates ( A ) mentioned above .
We have made several microscopic experiments with betol .
If the fibres ( B ) be introduced into a drop of liquid betol at about 15 ' , they continue to grow as fibres .
If , on the other hand , a plate of betol ( A ) ( obtained from solution in ether ) be introduced , its growth is scarcely perceptible , neither does it appear to be dissolved .
The same is true of liquid mixtures containing both salol and betol .
This suggests that throughout these experiments the betol ( B ) which crystallises from fused substance , or from its mixtures with salol , is not identical with the crystals ( A ) obtained from solution in ether , and it is certainly not identical with the crystals ( C ) which form above 80 ' .
It is probably the modification IY which Tammann describes as melting at 91 ' .
II .
The Temperature of Spontaneous Crystallisation of Salol .
( a ) Experiments with Sealed Tubes .
Salol was enclosed in sealed glass tubes which were heated until the substance had completely melted .
Some of the tubes contained fragments of glass together with the salol , and others contained salol alone .
These tubes were shaken continually in a cooling water bath , but absolutely failed to recrystallise , though the temperature of the bath was lowered to 12 ' , and the salol became very viscous .
Some of the tubes were kept for nine months and still remained uncrystallised .
( One of the tubes was broken open at the top after three weeks and kept in the court of the University Museum in air presumably free from salol germs .
The salol in it crystallised after three days and nights .
It is possible , however , that the crystallisation really began at the top of the tube at the time when it was broken open .
) When a sealed tube containing salol was heated in such a way as to melt all the substance , with the exception of a few very small crystals at the top of the tube , the salol recrystallised , when shaken , in a dense shower at approximately 30 ' , and soon became solid .
The density of the shower indicated that this may be about the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation .
Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. ] 5 , ( b ) Stirring in an Open Vessel .
Experiments were next made on the refractive index , in order to determine whether this exhibits a maximum value at the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation , as appears to be possibly the case with water .
In these experiments , the inverted goniometer described in ' Phil. Trans./ 1903 , vol. 202 , p. 464 , was used .
The trough was filled with liquid salol at about 50 ' , and a glass prism was immersed in it .
The index of the salol as it cooled was determined from time to time by the method of total internal reflection within the prism .
The first experiment was carried out in a room in which salol had never been previously used , so that the air was presumably free from salol germs .
The liquid was stirred rapidly in the trough as it cooled by means of a small platinum stirrer driven by a water motor .
The refractive index rose steadily from 1*580563 at 38'*5 to 1*589681 at 20'*5 .
No well-marked break occurred at any point of the index-temperature curve , and no crystals made their appearance .
If the liquid has really passed through the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation , there is no clear evidence of a sudden change in the index at this point .
The salol was quite clear and liquid at 20'*5 ; it then very suddenly became solid with a considerable rise of temperature .
Although this experiment was repeated several times , the salol never again reached nearly so low a temperature as 20'*5 without solidifying .
The reason may possibly be that the air was subsequently impregnated with salol germs which start crystallisation in the liquid at , or somewhat below , the melting-point temperature .
In a second experiment the salol , after being fused and heated to 90 ' , was placed in the goniometer trough at 60 ' , and was kept stirred .
The index rose from 1*575916 at 50 ' to 1*584131 at 33 ' .
At 55 ' one small crystal appeared in the trough , at 40 ' crystals were growing rapidly along the bottom edge of the trough , and at 34 ' the salol was growing round the prism .
At 33 ' a thick shower of crystals suddenly appeared and the stirring was stopped .
This shower caused the temperature to rise , and the index to fall in value till it reached 1*582096 at 38 ' .
The density of the shower in the trough rendered further readings for the index impossible , and at 40 ' the salol was almost solid .
In a third similar experiment the index rose from 1*572970 at 56 ' to 1*584184 at 33 ' .
Crystals first appeared at 41 ' along the bottom edge of the trough and grew rapidly .
At 33 ' a dense shower of crystals occurred .
The temperature rose and the index fell till it reached 1*580831 at 40 .
Two other experiments gave similar results .
In each experiment , the index 1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
329 rose till the temperature reached 33 ' , when a dense cloud of crystals occurred , causing a rise in temperature and a fall in index .
Crystals first appeared in the trough at 43 ' and 40 ' respectively , round the prism or at the bottom of the trough .
From these experiments we conclude that the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation for salol is 33 ' , since at this temperature a dense shower occurs , and the index attains a maximum value .
The fall in index observed in these experiments at 33 ' is probably solely due to the rise of temperature consequent on the spontaneous development of the shower of crystals .
This is indicated by fig. 2 , in which the downward branch of the indexI 582 temperature curve , showing the behaviour of the salol after the maximum index has been reached and the shower of crystals has fallen , coincides very nearly with the upward branch of the curve which shows the behaviour of the salol before the shower took place .
The slight difference of a degree between the two branches of the curve may be due simply to the fact that on one branch the temperatures are read in a cooling liquid and on the other Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 155 in a liquid of which the temperature is rising .
In the first experiment quoted above , it is probable that the substance passed far into the labile state without crystallising , like the salol in sealed tubes .
( c ) Crystallisation by Means of Friction in a Closed Tube .
If 33 ' is the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation , it ought to be possible to make salol solidify in a closed tube at this temperature by mechanical means .
With this viscous liquid , shaking with fragments of glass is not sufficient , and more violent friction seems to be necessary .
By the following contrivance we were enabled to preserve the salol from the possibility of inoculation from the air , and yet to apply actual scratching to the sides of the tube in which it was contained .
Salol was introduced into a U-tube , closed at one end .
A long brass wire , with a piece of platinum wire attached to its further end , was passed into the U-tube so that the salol at the closed end could be scratched by moving the wire to and fro from outside .
The U-tube was inverted and completely immersed in a water bath and kept for some time at about 80 ' .
It is certain , therefore , that there is no solid salol within the tube .
The water bath and the immersed tube were then allowed to cool gradually , and the part containing the liquid salol was continually scratched .
The salol remained quite clear and liquid till the temperature reached 33 ' , when it suddenly crystallised along the lines of scratch .
This experiment was repeated several times with the same result , the salol always crystallising at 33 ' .
This result is in complete accordance with the evidence derived from the sudden appearance of the labile cloud at 33 ' , when the liquid was stirred in an open trough : and we are , therefore , justified in regarding 33 ' as the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation of salol , thus fixing one point upon the supersolubility curve .
Tammann has traced the variation of the velocity of crystallisation with temperature for salol between the temperatures 20o,6 and 37'*8 .
He found the velocity of crystallisation to increase as the temperature fell .
On plotting his results as a curve , with velocity of crystallisation as ordinates and temperature as abscissae , it will be seen that at 31''4 there is a distinct break in the continuity of the curve .
This break probably corresponds to the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation .
The break in the velocity of-crystallisation-temperature curve is at a temperature slightly below o\lt ; j , but it is probable that in measuring the rate of crystallisation of liquid salol along a tube , the latent heat raised the temperature slightly , in spite of the precautions taken to keep the temperature constant , and that the break in 1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
331 this curve at 31''4 really coincides with the spontaneous crystallisation at 33 ' .
III .
The Temperature of Spontaneous Crystallisation of Betol .
( a ) Experiments with Sealed Tubes .
In order to determine the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation , betol was first enclosed in sealed glass tubes .
As in the experiments with salol , some of the tubes contained angular fragments of glass together with the betol , and some contained betol alone .
The tubes were heated for some time in boiling water to melt all the betol , and were then shaken by hand in a hot water bath , which was allowed to cool slowly .
The betol in the tubes , without the glass fragments , failed to crystallise , although shaken in the water bath till the temperature reached 15 ' .
The betol became more and more viscous as the cooling proceeded , and at 15 ' appeared to be a jelly .
An hour later it started crystallising slowly , the crystals beginning at the edges of the tube , and gradually spreading until the whole was solid .
The tubes containing fragments of glass with the betol crystallised in a dense labile shower at about 75 ' .
These experiments were repeated with a larger water bath , so that the tubes could be shaken more violently .
The betol was then always found to crystallise at 79 ' .
The tubes without the angular glass fragments enclosed in them failed , as before , to crystallise till the temperature was far lower ; 79 ' , therefore , appears to be the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation for betol ; it will be found that this conclusion is supported by the subsequent experiments .
The liquid betol is sufficiently viscous to require the friction of the glass within the tube , as well as mere shaking , to start crystallisation when it becomes labile .
Friction within the sealed tube was also found necessary in some aqueous solutions , for example , sodium chlorate.* The refractive index of liquid betol has not at present been determined , owing to the comparatively high temperature at which it melts .
( b ) Stirring in an Open Vessel .
The betol was heated in a small beaker to 140 ' to melt it completely .
A thermometer was immersed in the beaker , the liquid was stirred by a platinum vane driven by an electric motor , and the temperature was allowed to fall gradually .
The experiment was repeated eight times , with the following results:\#151 ; * 4 Journ. Chem. Soc. , ' vol. 89 , 1906 , p. 441 .
Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 , 1 .
The betol crystallised between 90 ' and 92 ' in two of the experiments , i.e. , at approximately the melting point .
2 .
The betol crystallised in a dense labile shower at 79 ' in three experiments .
3 .
The betol crystallised at temperatures below 79 ' three times , namely , at 74 ' , 63 ' , and 52 ' .
In the experiments where betol crystallised at the melting point , it was noticed that a little had solidified round the upper edges of the beaker above the liquid before the stirring began .
This probably inoculated the liquid , which then began to crystallise at the melting point in the metastable condition .
In three experiments , the betol crystallised spontaneously at 79 ' , the temperature at which it crystallises in a sealed tube .
In the three remaining experiments , the substance crystallised spontaneously at various temperatures below 79 ' .
How the viscosity of betol renders it very liable to supercooling , as has been shown in the sealed tube experiments without glass fragments , when it was cooled to the temperature of the room , and remained for some hours without crystallising .
From all the experiments , then , it results that 79 ' is the highest temperature at which betol can be made to crystallise by mechanical means , and this is , therefore , to be regarded as the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation , fixing one point upon the supersolubility curve .
Tammann has also measured the velocity of crystallisation of betol at different temperatures .
Most of his experiments are made below 70 ' , but , for his betol I , the velocity of crystallisation is given for temperatures between 80o,5 and 65'*2 .
On plotting his results as a curve , with velocity of crystallisation as ordinates , and temperature as abscissae , it is seen that the velocity of crystallisation reaches a distinct maximum at 78 ' .
This probably corresponds to the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation for betol , which has been shown above to occur at 79 ' .
The maximum velocity of crystallisation appears to be reached at a slightly lower temperature than the spontaneous crystallisation , but , as has been mentioned in the case of salol , the latent heat must raise the temperature of the betol slightly , as it grows in the tube , and the two temperatures are probably really identical .
IV .
The Solubility or Freezing-point Curve for Salol and Betol in EACH OTHER .
The next experiments were designed to determine the solubility curve for betol and salol in each other , in other words , the freezing-point curve of their mixtures , which defines the limit between the metastable and unsaturated regions .
1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
333 ( a ) The Melting Point of Salol .
The melting point of salol was determined as the temperature of approximate equilibrium between the liquid and the solid substance by the following method .
A few grammes of salol were placed at the bottom of a small open test-tube , the tube was corked and placed in boiling water for several minutes till the salol had completely melted .
The tube was then allowed to cool slowly in a large glass beaker filled with hot water , and from time to time the liquid was inoculated with a minute crystal of salol .
After the crystal had been introduced , the tube was shaken continually by hand , and the salol crystal was watched with a lens , being illuminated by an electric lamp placed immediately behind the beaker .
The liquid was first inoculated at 50 ' , when the small salol crystal was seen to dissolve immediately .
The liquid was again inoculated at 48'*5 , 47 ' , 46 ' , and 45 ' , and each time the crystal dissolved immediately .
On inoculating at 44 ' and 43 ' , the crystal dissolved more slowly , but again disappeared completely on shaking .
On inoculating at 42'*5 , however , the small salol crystal , on shaking , formed a slight " metastable " shower in its neighbourhood , the shower increasing in density as the salol cooled .
This experiment was repeated several times , and the salol crystal was always seen to form the same shower directly the temperature reached 42'*5 .
At any temperature slightly higher than 42'*5 , the introduced crystal dissolved completely .
From these experiments the melting point of salol was taken to^ be 42'*5 .
Previous determinations by a different method by Ostwald* gave the melting point as 39'*5 .
Tammannf gives , as stated above , 42 ' , 38'*8 , and 280,5 for three modifications of the substance ; and it was determined by Seifertj as 42 ' to 42| ' .
( b ) The Melting Point of Betol .
Precisely the same method was employed to find the melting point of betol , using both the monoclinic plates obtained from solution , and also the tufts obtained from fusion .
( 1 ) Inoculation with Betol Plates.\#151 ; When the liquid betol was inoculated at 95 ' , the crystal immediately dissolved .
Betol crystals also dissolved in the liquid at 94 ' , 93 ' , and 920,5 .
When the liquid was inoculated at 92 ' , the crystal appeared neither to grow nor to dissolve , and at 91'*5 it formed a slight metastable shower when shaken in the tube .
A distinct shower also * ' Zeits .
Phys. Chem.,5 1897 , vol. 22 , p. 290 .
t ' Zeits .
Phys. Chem.,5 1899 , vol. 29 , p. 71 .
X ' Journ. Prakt .
Chem. , ' 1885 , vol. 31 , p. 473 .
Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 , formed if the betol was inoculated at 91 ' or 90 ' .
The same experiment was repeated several times , and the result was always the same .
The betol crystal dissolved in the liquid at 92'*5 , neither grew nor dissolved at 92 ' , and formed a slight metastable shower around itself at 910,5 .
The melting point of betol plates was , therefore , taken to be 92 ' .
( 2 ) Inoculation with Tufts of Betol obtained from Fusion.\#151 ; When liquid betol was inoculated at 95 ' , 94 ' , 93 ' , 92 ' , and 91 ' , the small betol tufts dissolved .
At 90 ' the betol formed a slight metastable shower , which became denser at 89 ' .
The same result was obtained on repeating the experiment .
The melting point of the betol tufts was therefore taken to be 90 ' .
Previous determinations by Tammann gave the melting point as 93 ' and 91 ' , these temperatures relating , perhaps , to the above two modifications of betol .
When heated on a microscope slide , the tufts were found to melt at a slightly lower temperature than the plates .
( c ) Solubility of Salol in Betol .
Mixtures containing weighed quantities of salol and betol were placed in open test-tubes .
The tubes were corked and heated in boiling water till the mixtures had completely melted .
They were then allowed to cool slowly in a large glass beaker of hot water and , as they cooled , the liquid mixtures were inoculated from time to time with a minute crystal of salol .
The behaviour of this crystal was watched with a lens in precisely the same way as in the experiments on the melting points described above .
The tubes were continually shaken by hand in the water bath as the mixtures cooled .
In general , for each mixture the crystal of salol at first dissolved when the liquid in the test-tube was inoculated with it , and this continued until a certain definite temperature was reached .
The introduced salol crystal then no longer dissolved , but formed a slight metastable shower in its neighbourhood when the tube was shaken , as was very clearly seen with a lens .
The temperature at which this slight shower first occurred in each mixture when inoculated with salol was taken to be the temperature of saturation with regard to salol .
The following are the results of the experiments on the solubility of salol in betol:\#151 ; Each experiment was repeated several times .
The numbers corresponding to the experiments are given in fig. 3 .
Experiment 1 .
~V .
The mixture inoculated with 1 LBetol = 10 per cent. J 1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
335 salol at 42'-5 , 42 ' , 40 ' , and 39 ' dissolved the crystal at once .
Inoculated at 38 ' yielded a slight metastable shower on shaking .
The mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to salol at 38 ' .
Experiment 2 .
^ \#153 ; ^ Inoculated at 38 ' , 36 ' , 35 ' , 34 ' , and 33 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 32'-5 yielded a slight metastable shower .
The mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to salol at 32a5 .
Experiment 3 .
^ ^ Inoculated at 40 ' , 39 ' , 37 ' , 35 ' , 33 ' , and 32 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 31 ' yielded a metastable shower .
The mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to salol at 31 ' .
Experiment 4 .
-f = \#153 ; p6r cenH .
Inoculated at 37 ' , 35 ' , 34 ' , 33 ' , r LBetol = 30 per cent. J 32 ' , 31 ' , and 30 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 29 ' yielded a slight metastable shower .
The mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to salol at 29 ' .
_ .
_ f Salol = 52*035 per cent."I T . . .
_ .
_ Experiment 5 .
__ 4^.955 per cent J ' Inoculated with salol at 30 ' , this mixture immediately yielded a thick labile shower of betol ( ?
) This shower differs completely in appearance from the slight metastable shower obtained by inoculating the mixtures at the temperature of saturation , the whole mixture becoming quite opaque suddenly , and soon solidifying ; 30 ' is , therefore , probably below the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation of betol in this mixture .
In order to maintain the mixture in liquid form below this temperature , it was heated again to about 70 ' , and then cooled suddenly to 25 ' without solidifying .
It was inoculated with a salol crystal at 25 ' .
The crystal dissolved , but , shortly after , a shower of betol occurred throughout the tube .
The same thing happened when the mixture was cooled suddenly to 24 ' , 23 ' , or 22 ' .
The introduced salol crystal dissolved , and then a betol shower occurred .
When cooled suddenly to 21'*5 , and inoculated with salol , it yielded a slight metastable shower of salol ( ?
) .
The same effect was produced when the mixture was cooled to 21 ' , 20 ' , or 19 ' , and inoculated with salol .
This experiment was repeated several times , and 21'*5 was the highest temperature at which the slight metastable shower occurred when the liquid was inoculated with a salol crystal .
This mixture was , therefore , only just saturated with respect to salol at 21'*5 , although supersaturated with respect to betol .
The point given by this mixture lies on the freezing-point curve for salol in betol as determined by the four preceding experiments , but it must lie considerably below the supersolubility curve for betol in salol .
These results , together with the melting point Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 , for salol ascertained above , determine the freezing-point curve of salol in betol .
( d ) Solubility of Betol in Salol .
Precisely the same method was employed to determine the solubility of betol in salol .
The liquid mixtures were inoculated from time to time with a betol crystal until the crystal , as it dissolved , began to yield a fine dusty metastable shower of betol needles .
Each experiment was repeated several times .
The following descriptions relate to inoculation with a monoclinic plate of betol .
A number of the experiments were repeated with tufts of betol obtained from fusion .
The temperatures determined with these are so nearly the same as the temperatures determined with the plates that they are not shown upon the diagram .
The difference never exceeded half a degree and the temperatures were sometimes above and sometimes below those determined by the plates .
_ .
_ f Salol = 10*01 per cent.* !
_ .
_ .
_ _ _ r LBetol = 89*99 per cent. J J betol at 90 ' , 88 ' , and 87 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 86 ' yielded a slight metastable shower in the neighbourhood of the crystal .
The mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 86 ' .
Experiment7 .
j LL = Lqo ^ cenH Inoculated at 85 ' , 84 ' , 83 ' , * LBetol = 79-89 per cent. J 82'-5 , and 82 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 81 ' yielded a slight metastable shower .
The mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 81 ' . .
" fSalol = 30-34 per cent. J T .
, , ^ orQ oo0 on0 Experiment 8 .
4 , nc .
Inoculated at 8o , 82 , 80 , r LBetol = 69-66 per cent. J 78 ' , 77 ' , and 76 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 75 ' yielded a slight metastable shower .
The mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 75 ' .
Experiment 9 .
Z Inoculated at 75 ' , 72-5 ' , 71 ' , 69 ' , and 68 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 67 ' yielded a slight metastable shower .
The mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 67 ' .
" fSalol = 50-43 per cent. J T , .
, , A(7o ftco fioo Experiment 10 .
= ^ per Inoculated at 6 , , 60 , 63 , 62 ' , 61 ' , and 60 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 59 ' yielded a slight metastable shower .
The mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 59 ' .
1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
337 Expermenl 11 .
I"oeukted 62 ' ' 60 ' 59'and 58 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 57''5 yielded a slight metastable shower .
This mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 57''5 .
" .
" A fSalol = 59-98 per cent. " ! . .
, ^ __Q _00 Experiment 12 .
] ^ , , AAO , f. Inoculated at 57 , 55 ' , 53 ' , r LBetol = 40-02 per cent. J 52 ' , and 51 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 50 ' yielded a slight metastable shower .
This mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 50 ' .
Experiment 13 .
^ j"- Inoculated at 48 ' , 47 ' , 46 ' , 45 ' , 44 ' , 43 ' , and 42 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 41 ' yielded a very slight metastable shower .
This mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 41 ' .
Experiment 14 .
/ SalGl 74 per cent-\ Inoculated at 41 ' , 40 ' , 39 ' , LBetol = 26 per cent. J and 38 ' , dissolved the crystal .
At 37'*5 yielded a slight metastable shower .
This mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 370,5 .
This is the mixture that gives the hypertectic point on the supersolubility curve ( p. 338 ) .
It has already been shown to be saturated with respect to salol at 31 ' ( p. 335 ) .
Experiment 15 .
^ Per cenk*l Inoculated with betol at 37 ' , ^ LBetol = 22 per cent. J 36 ' , 35 ' , 34 ' , and 33 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 32'*5 yielded \#166 ; a slight metastable shower .
This mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 32'*5 .
It has already been shown to be saturated wdth respect to salol at the same temperature ( p. 335 ) .
This mixture is , therefore , the eutectic .
Experiment 16 .
^ per cent-\ Inoculated at 37 ' , 36 ' , 34 ' , LBetol = 19*8 per cent. J 32 ' , and 31 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 30 ' yielded a slight metastable shower .
This mixture is , therefore , saturated with respect to betol at 30 ' .
Experiment 17 .
^ pei cent-\ Inoculated with betol at 32 ' , LBetol = 10 per cent. J 30 ' , and 29 ' , dissolved the crystal .
Inoculated at 28 ' , the whole mixture suddenly crystallised , on slightly shaking , in a dense labile shower of salol ( ?
) .
Therefore , the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation of salol in this mixture appears to be 28 ' .
In order to cool the mixture below this .temperature of spontaneous crystallisation , without the labile shower taking YOL .
LXXIX.-------A .
2 A Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 , place , it was heated to 70 ' , and suddenly cooled to 18'*5 by immersion in a cold water bath .
When introduced at this temperature the betol dissolved , as also when introduced into the mixture at 18 ' .
At 17'*5 the introduced betol crystal formed a slight metastable shower , and a few minutes later the whole mixture solidified suddenly in a labile shower .
During this experiment the mixture was kept for an hour and a-half at 18 ' without beginning to solidify .
This experiment was repeated several times ; generally , the inoculation with betol at temperatures varying from 22 ' to 17 ' brought down immediately a labile shower of salol quite unlike the slight metastable shower produced by inoculating the mixtures at the temperature of saturation .
Once or twice , however , on inoculating this mixture with betol at 19 ' and 18 ' , the crystal dissolved , and on inoculating again at 17'*5 the betol at first formed a slight metastable shower .
This slight shower invariably brought down the labile shower almost immediately 1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
339 afterwards ; 17'*5 , being the highest temperature at which the metastable shower appears , is , therefore , the temperature of saturation of this mixture with respect to betol .
It is to be noted that the experiment always failed if the mixture was allowed to cool gradually , as the labile shower then invariably came down at 28 ' .
To these results must be added the experiment which determines the melting point of betol , namely , 90 ' for the tufts ( B ) or 92 ' for the plates ( A ) .
The 13 experiments taken together give the freezing-point curve of betol in salol .
In fig. 3 the curve is drawn to the melting point of betol ( A ) ; it would really accord better with the observations if drawn to the melting point of ( B ) .
This series of experiments , together with the series giving the freezing-point curve of salol in betol , determine the complete solubility curve for all mixtures of salol and betol .
This curve , MEm on fig. 3 , consists of two branches crossing at the eutectic point E where the composition is salol = 78 per cent. , betol = 22 per cent , at 320,5 , the branches then continuing down uniformly even below the supersolubility curve SHs .
Inoculation experiments are indicated by a cross .
Sealed tube experiments " " cross in circle .
Stirring experiments " " dot in circle .
Befraetive index observations are indicated by a thick dot .
V. The Supersolubility Curves for Mixtures of Salol and Betol .
Experiments upon the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation of mixtures of salol and betol were next undertaken , in order to determine for these mixtures the supersolubility curve .
The experiments were conducted in two ways:\#151 ; 1 .
By noting the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation of mixtures in sealed tubes when cooled and shaken in a water bath .
2 .
By observing the temperature at which the dense shower of crystals ( " labile shower " ) occurs in a mixture which is being rapidly stirred .
These experiments were made in the goniometer trough , and were used also for the determination of the refractive index .
By these experiments the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation has been ascertained for a large series of mixtures , and the supersolubility curve has been completely determined .
2 a 2 340 Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 , ( a ) Experiments with Sealed Tubes .
Weighed quantities of betol and salol were enclosed in sealed glass tubes , together with angular fragments of glass .
They were heated in boiling water until the mixture was completely liquid , and then shaken as they cooled in a hot water bath .
When the temperature of the bath had fallen to a certain point , a thick shower of small crystals suddenly appeared in the tube , after which the whole mixture soon became solid .
This temperature is , therefore , taken to be the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation of the mixture under examination .
Each such mixture gives a point on the supersolubility curve .
The following are the results obtained , each experiment being repeated several times:\#151 ; Experiment .
Constitution of liquid .
Temperature of spontaneous crystallisation .
Per cent. 18 / Salol = 10 -0351 X Betol = 89 -965 J 73 -o 19 J Salol = 19 -754 1 1 Betol = 80 '246 J 66 -5 20 f Salol = 28 -4431 \ Betol = 71 -557 J 57 -0 21 / Salol = 40-0 1 t Betol =60-0 f 48-0 22 / Salol =40-8 \ I Betol = 59 J 47 -0 23 / Salol = 48 -17 1 \ Betol = 51 -83 / 37 -0 24 f Salol =52-6 1 t Betol = 47 '4 32-0 25 J Salol = 60-1 1 \ Betol = 39-9 J 24-0 To these results must be added the experiment with pure betol , which has been shown above to crystallise spontaneously in a glass tube at 79 ' .
The nine results , when plotted on a concentration-temperature diagram , are seen to lie very approximately on a continuous curve , which forms part of one branch of the supersolubility curve ( fig. 3 ) .
It was not possible to plot the entire supersolubility curve by the method of sealed tubes , for this method failed when the mixture contained a larger proportion of salol than about 60 per cent. Some mixtures , which were very rich in salol , behaved like pure salol , and did not crystallise at all , and in others , containing from 65 to 75 - per cent , salol , the betol crystallised out after the lapse of a few days in round globules , leaving the salol still liquid .
Some other method , therefore , had to be adopted in order to plot the 1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
341 remainder of the supersolubility curve for mixtures containing more than 60 per cent , of salol .
( b ) Stirring in an Open Vessel .
With aqueous solutions of salts , it has been shown that when such eC solution is stirred as it cools , the refractive index rises to a maximum value and then falls again .
At the maximum point a dense shower of crystals generally forms throughout the whole mass of the solution .
This " labile " shower is quite different from the thin " metastable " shower of isolated crystals , which may have been formed earlier .
The temperatures corresponding to the maximum index and the labile shower determine the supersolubility curve .
An attempt was therefore made to investigate , in the same way , mixtures of salol and betol containing more than 60 per cent , salol , by observing whether the mixtures ( 1 ) possess a maximum refractive index , ( 2 ) exhibit the dense shower of crystals on reaching this maximum .
Various mixtures were made up and their refractive indices determined in the trough of the inverted goniometer by means of an immersed glass prism* as described on p. 328 .
The mixtures were placed in the trough at about 60 ' , and were stirred vigorously with the platinum stirrer .
In all these experiments it was found that the refractive index rose very rapidly as the mixture cooled till the temperature reached a certain point , when a dense shower of very small crystals occurred throughout the liquid .
The mixture then rapidly became opaque and soon solidified completely .
The shower of crystals was always extremely dense and remained suspended in the viscous liquid instead of falling to the bottom of the trough , so that determinations of the refractive index became almost impossible after this point .
The shadow denoting total reflection became gradually fainter and less well defined till it disappeared completely .
The density of the cloud rendered it impossible to ascertain for certain whether the refractive index really attains a maximum value at this temperature .
The occurrence of the shower was , therefore , the only available indication of the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation ; and the refractive indices of the various mixtures are of no service in the determination of the supersolubility curve .
They will , however , be considered in a later paragraph , together with the results of further experiments on the refractive indices of mixtures of salol and betol .
The following results , obtained from stirring the mixtures in the goniometer trough , give the temperatures at which the shower occurs in the various mixtures , and determine the form of the supersolubility curve .
In every experiment the liquid was thoroughly stirred while cooling :\#151 ; Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 , Experiment .
Constitution of Temperature of mixture .
spontaneous crystallisation .
Per cent. 26 r Salol = 89 -99 \ \ Betol = 10 -01 J 28 -0 27 / Salol = 80 -19 \ l Betol = 19 -81 f 20 T 28 f Salol = 78 -43 i \ Betol = 21 .
J 19 *3 29 J Salol = 73 -997 1 \ Betol = 26 -003 J 15 *0 30 J Salol = 69-9681 1 Betol = 30 -032 J 17 *5 31 / Salol = 63 -27 1 \ Betol = 36 -73 | 23 *5 32 i / Salol =58-9 i \Betol =41-1 J 25 *0 To these must be added the experiment with pure salol which solidified in the trough in a shower at 33 ' .
Experiments 29 to 32 yield a continuation of the curve already obtained by another method in Experiments 18 to 25 , and if the whole series 18 to 32 be plotted on a concentration-temperature diagram , they will determine the complete supersolubility curve for the whole series of possible mixtures of salol and betol .
This curve is seen to consist of two branches , meeting at 15 ' in the hypertectic point , where the constitution is 74 per cent , salol , 26 per cent , betol , and the temperature is the highest at which both salol and betol can crystallise spontaneously together .
( c ) Spontaneous Crystallisation below the Hypertedic Temperature .
Not only has it proved possible to trace the two branches of the solubility curve MEm below their intersection at the eutectic point E , but also the branches of the supersolubility curve SH5 below their intersection at the hypertectic point H. It will be seen from the diagram that any mixture which gives a point on a branch of the supersolubility curve for one component below the hypertectic temperature must , as it cooled , have already passed through a point on the other branch of the supersolubility curve for the other component at a temperature above the hypertectic .
In order , therefore , to obtain a point on the supersolubility curve below the hypertectic , it is necessary to chill the mixture suddenly below the temperature at which the labile shower corresponding to the higher branch of the curve should make its appearance .
The method of suddenly cooling a mixture has already been used in determining the branches of the solubility curve at points below the supersolubility curve .
1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
343 Experiment 34 .
Mixture In the following experiments the cooling mixtures were stirred in an open vessel , and the temperature at which a dense labile shower occurred was noted :\#151 ; " .
, fsalol = 78*5 per cental _ . .
_ Experiment 33 .
The mixture-4 _ .
, \gt ; , which becomes r Lbetol = 21'5 per cent. J labile with respect to salol at 19 ' , was chilled suddenly from a high temperature to 18 ' , and then allowed to cool gradually .
A dense labile shower of betol occurred at 13 ' , 13 ' , 12'*5 , 12'*5 , in four different experiments .
If , therefore , the labile shower of salol be prevented at 19 ' , betol will begin to crystallise spontaneously at 13 ' .
f salol = 90 per cent. J , , ... .
\lt ; . .
^ .
\gt ; , which becomes labile hbetol = 10 per cent. J with respect to salol at 28 ' , was chilled suddenly from a high temperature to 18 ' , and then allowed to cool gradually .
A dense labile shower of betol occurred at 10 ' , 10'*5 , 10'*5 , 10o,5 in four experiments .
If , therefore , the labile shower of salol at 28 ' be prevented , betol will begin to crystallise spontaneously at 10o,5 .
The temperature of this mixture rose to 24 ' on solidifying .
Experiment 35 .
Mixture -f " .
' .
70 per cent. *1 which becomes labile Lbetol = 30 per cent. J with respect to betol at 17'*5 , was chilled suddenly from a high temperature to 15 ' , and then allowed to cool gradually .
A dense labile shower of salol occurred at 11'*5 in three experiments .
If , therefore , the labile shower of betol at 17'*5 be prevented , salol will begin to crystallise spontaneously at 11'*5 .
" salol = 64*99 per cent. J _ .
_ _ , , i oc , which becomes _betol = o5*01 per cent. J labile with respect to betol at 21'*5 , was chilled suddenly from a high temperature to 15 ' , and then allowed to cool gradually .
A dense labile shower of salol occurred at 8 ' in three experiments .
If , therefore , the labile shower of betol be prevented at 21'*5 , salol will begin to crystallise spontaneously at 8 ' .
In Experiments 35 and 36 the shower appears at first to be composed of fairly large , clear crystals of salol .
Betol , however , comes down also in .characteristic tufts as soon as the shower has started .
In the Experiments 33 and 34 the shower that first occurs has the appearance of betol .
It will be seen that the four points determined by Experiments 33 to 36 lie on the prolongation of the supersolubility curves determined by the previous experiments .
The whole of the concentration-temperature diagram is now divided up into several different areas : \#151 ; Experiment 36 .
Mixture c Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 , 1 .
In the region above the curve MEm all the mixtures are unsaturated .
2 .
In the region below the curve SHs all the mixtures are so highly supersaturated with respect to betol or to salol , or to both , that they are labile , and can be made to crystallise by appropriate mechanical means .
Of this labile region , the portion within the curve SHcr is labile with respect to betol , but not with respect to salol ; the portion within the curve sHS is labile with respect to salo ] , but not with respect to betol ; whilst the portion below the curve o-HS is labile with respect to both salol and betol , being below both branches of the supersolubility curve .
3 .
Between the two regions ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) in the space MSHsmEM , all the mixtures are metastable , and if the appropriate crystal be introduced it will continue to grow in the mixture .
Of this metastable region , the portion MSRE is supersaturated with respect to betol , but not with respect to salol ; the portion ?
?iETs is supersaturated with respect to salol , but not with respect to betol ; whilst the portion RETH is supersaturated with respect to both salol and betol .
VI .
The Refractive Indices of Mixtures of Salol and Betol .
In the course of the experiments described above , the refractive indices of the mixtures were determined as they cooled by means of total reflection within a dense glass prism immersed in the liquid mixture , from the time when the mixture was first placed in the trough until the occurrence of the dense shower at the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation .
Beyond this point the determination of the refractive index was generally impossible owing to the dense labile shower .
In general , for mixtures containing from 60 to 100 per cent , of salol , the index rises regularly as the temperature falls from about 50 ' or 60 ' to the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation , and there is no break in the continuity of the index-temperature curve denoting any physical change taking place in the liquid .
Mixtures containing from 50 to 60 per cent , of salol occasionally exhibit slight irregularities in their index-temperature curves as they cool , probably because they are somewhat more viscous owing to the amount of betol they contain ; and this may give rise to more intense concentration streams .
The streams can be clearly seen rising round the immersed prism in mixtures containing a large proportion of betol , even while the liquid is being stirred .
In a few of the mixtures containing from 50 to 60 per cent , of salol the index appears to reach a maximum , and then to begin to fall ; but the labile shower always occurs at this point and renders the determination difficult .
Some of the mixtures do not exhibit an actual maximum , but the index-temperature 1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
345 curve shows a slight change in direction near the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation .
The refractive indices of mixtures containing more than 50 per cent , betol have not yet been investigated , owing to the difficulties introduced by concentration streams and the high temperatures of spontaneous crystallisation .
The occurrence of the thick labile shower is not always accompanied by an appreciable rise in temperature .
The following are the only cases in which a marked rise of temperature was observed :\#151 ; 1 .
Pure salol , which crystallises spontaneously at 33 ' , rose to 40 ' during solidification in the trough .
2 .
The mixture 89*99 per cent , salol , 10*01 per cent , betol , which crystallises spontaneously at 28 ' , rose to 33 ' during the occurrence of the labile shower .
3 .
The mixture 80*19 per cent , salol , 19*81 per cent , betol , wdiich crystallises spontaneously at 20 ' , was observed to rise to 21 ' during the labile shower .
Mixtures containing more than this percentage of betol showed no appreciable rise of temperature during solidification .
4 .
When a liquid crystallised on a portion of the supersolubility curve below the hypertectic point , there was a considerable rise of temperature on solidification .
The following are the results of the experiments on the refractive indices of mixtures of salol and betol .
All the mixtures were stirred unless otherwise stated .
We only give here the general results of the experiments ; the actual observations are shown by the thick dots on the Curves I to XIY in fig. 3 , which correspond to the following descriptions .
No. YII is omitted pn the diagram in order to avoid confusion with Y and YI:\#151 ; .
fSalol = 52*024 per cent. J . . .
Experiment I. *1 " r- The index rose from 1*5941 / 2 r LBetol = 47*976 per cent. J at 72 ' to 1*611860 at 32 ' .
The mixture was unstirred ; betol first appeared at 40 ' .
At 32 ' the growth of betol became very rapid and spread throughout the mixture .
Experiment II .
-f ~ ^ ^ ^ cent*\ The index rose from 1*603139 LBetol = 47*96 per cent. J at 53 ' to 1*610987 at 35 ' ; betol first appeared at 38'*5 and in a thick shower at 34 ' .
Experiment III .
-T^01 ~~ ^ pei cent*l The index rose from 1*602733 LBetol = 44 per cent. J at 49'*5 to 1*610570 at 31'*5 .
The index then remained nearly constant till the temperature fell to 29 ' .
A thick shower appeared at 30 ' .
Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 , .
fSalol = 56-51 per cent. J . .
Experiment IV .
\lt ; . . . .
, \gt ; .
This mixture was examined * LBetol = 4349 per cent. J in an ordinary hollow prism and was not stirred .
It becomes labile at 28 ' , but in this case it was possible to trace the change in index far into the labile region .
The index rose from 1-607443 at 38 ' to 1-615239 at 17'*5 .
Crystals first appeared at 28 ' ( exactly on the supersolubility curve ) and grew very fast in straight lines down the corners and faces of the prism .
The main part of the mixture , however , was still liquid at 17''5 .
_ .
__ f Salol = 58-9 per cent. J , " Experiment ... " \gt ; .
The index rose from 1-604440 LBetol = 41-1 per cent. J at 41 ' to 1-610358 at 27 ' .
A very slight shower occurred at 33 ' and a thick labile shower at 25 ' . .
rSalol = 59-986 per cent. " ! .
Experiment VI .
, ... ... , \gt ; .
I he index rose from ' LBetol = 40-014 per cent. J 1-596093 at 59 ' to 1-610940 at 23 ' .
The mixture became slightly dusty at 26 ' , and a shower took place at 25 ' .
The stirring was then stopped , but the measurements were continued .
Experiment VII .
-f ^ ^6r cen^'~l _ The index rose from 1-598022 LBetol = 40 per cent. J at 54 ' to 1"610476 at 27 ' , then fell slightly , reaching 1-680216 at 25 ' ; but the mixture became dusty at 28 ' , and the readings were difficult .
The dense labile cloud occurred at 25 ' .
This same mixture , examined at rest , gave values somewhat lower than the above , showing a slight fall in index at 25 ' , followed by a rise up to 21 ' .
Betol grew rapidly at the bottom of the trough at 25 ' and at lower temperatures .
The prism was immersed in the upper part of the liquid .
Experiment VIII .
= fj " ^ " JJ .
The index rose from r LBetol = 36-73 per cent. J 1-595523 at 55 ' to 1-609248 at 24 ' .
The mixture became slightly dusty at 24 ' , and a thick shower fell at 23 ' .
This experiment was repeated with the same mixture unstirred , when values were obtained for the indices differing slightly from those previously obtained , being generally less by about 5 in the fourth place of decimals .
The same mixture was also examined in a hollow prism , when the values obtained agreed more closely with those of the stirred mixture .
Crystals first appeared at 23a5 and grew rapidly ; the index at 23 ' being 1-609354 .
The index continued to rise as the temperature fell , till it reached 1-611131 at 18'-4 , the mixture being now far in the labile region .
EmerimentlX = 65033 per cenfl index rose from experiment I A. ^Betol _ 34.967 per cent. J 1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
The index rose from T594494 1-594301 at 57 ' to 1-609538 at 20'-7 .
The mixture became very dusty at 22 ' ; the stirring was then stopped , but the measurements were continued . .
fSalol = 65-38 per cent.l Experiment + .
_ 34.62 per cent.j at 55 ' to 1-608946 at 20 ' .
The mixture became a little dusty at 21 ' , and a dense labile shower occurred at 20 ' after stirring for 10 minutes at this temperature .
" .
___ fSalol = 69-968 per cent.l .
Experiment XI .
4 _ ^ nnn The index rose from 1 LBetol = 30-032 per cent.j 1-597173 at 43 ' to 1-607967 at 18a2 .
At 18a2 the mixture became slightly dusty , and at 17a5 a dense labile shower occurred . .
fSalol = 78-43 per cent. T Experiment XII .
\lt ; \gt ; .
The index rose from 1 L Betol = 21-57 per cent.j 1-589902 at 480-5 to 1-602199 at 19'-3 .
The mixture became slightly dusty at 20 ' , and a thick labile shower occurred at 19''3 .
The same mixture was examined in the trough unstirred , and the values agreed very closely with those previously obtained .
The observations were carried on till the index reached 1-603283 at 17 ' .
The mixture was then in the labile state , but no crystals were visible .
Experiment XIII .
X \#174 ; al0 ' = per centl .
The index rose from LBetol = 19-81 per cent.j 1-586235 at 51 ' to 1-601143 at 20 ' .
A slight dusty shower appeared at 20'T and a dense labile shower at 20 ' .
The temperature then rose from 20 ' to 21 ' .
Experiment XIV .
~ ^ per cent-\ The index rose from LBetol = 10*01 per cent.j 1*586847 at 38'*5 to 1*591357 at 29 ' .
At 28 ' a dense labile shower occurred and the temperature rose 5 ' .
From these experiments it will be seen that\#151 ; 1 .
Mixtures containing a large percentage of betol have a higher index than those containing less betol at the same temperature .
2 .
Mixtures , when stirred , give a thick labile shower at temperatures which , as shown by the sealed tube experiments on mixtures containing excess of betol , correspond to the supersolubility curve SHs of the diagram .
Unstirred solutions do not usually yield profuse crystallisation until they have entered far into the labile state .
An example is No. IV on fig. 3 .
3 .
Mixtures containing from 100 per cent , to 60 per cent , of salol exhibit no indication of a maximum refractive index at the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation .
Mixtures containing less than 60 per cent , of Prof. H. A. Miers and Miss F. Isaac .
[ Apr. 15 ?
salol do yield indications of a maximum index , at the temperature of spontaneous crystallisation , but the evidence is not conclusive .
If the changes in refractive index for each mixture after crystals have begun to appear be left out of account , the above experiments will enable us to ascertain the refractive index of any given mixture at any desired temperature .
The results may be expressed by curves drawn with concentrations as abscissae , and temperatures as ordinates , the refractive index being constant for each curve .
Such curves were drawn for the following values of refractive index : 1*590 , 1*592 , 1*594 , 1*596 , 1*598 , 1*600 , 1*602 , 1*604 , 1*606 , and 1*608 .
The concentration-temperature curves for the different values of the index were found to be very approximately straight lines parallel to each other and inclined to the concentration-axis at an angle 52 ' 30 ' , the scale being such that a length representing 10 per cent , on the concentration axis represents 10 ' on the temperature axis .
The perpendicular distance between any two of these curves was found to be proportional to the difference in the corresponding refractive indices .
Hence if a line AB be drawn on the concentration-temperature diagram ( fig. 3 ) inclined at an angle 37 ' 30 ' to the concentration axis , the refractive index of any mixture as it cools may be measured along this line in the same way as the temperature is measured along the vertical axis .
Any point on the diagram will therefore give the concentration and temperature of a mixture by its co-ordinates measured along the vertical and horizontal axes , and its refractive index measured along the line AB .
The whole series of observations in the above experiments on the refractive indices of the mixtures may now be plotted on the diagram .
It must be remembered that in all these experiments in the open trough the liquid was liable to inoculation from the air of the laboratory , so that crystals always made their appearance in the metastable state ; but it will be seen from the curves , which are numbered I to XIV in fig. 3 , that the separation of crystals , before the labile shower appears , affects the concentration but little .
Some of the curves exhibit slight irregularities on crossing the solubility curves of betol and salol , they then continue straight down the diagram till they reach the supersolubility curve SHs , where the labile shower , in general , takes place .
Those curves representing the behaviour of mixtures containing from 50 to 70 per cent , of salol appear to bend slightly to the right on reaching the supersolubility curve .
1907 .
] Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binai'y Mixtures .
349 VII .
Conclusion .
The experiments described in this paper indicate that for a knowledge of what actually occurs during the crystallisation of a binary mixture , a consideration of the supersolubility curve is equally necessary with that of the freezing-point curve : unless supersaturation be prevented by mechanical agitation and by inoculation with both constituents .
And even then , unless the cooling be very slow , a sudden access of one constituent will occur when its supersolubility curve is reached .
In most experiments upon alloys and other mixtures , agitation and inoculation have hitherto been employed .
But in the actual solidification of such mixtures and of natural rocks the conditions cannot in general be favourable for solidification as a eutectic .
In rocks , the absence of the eutectic structure has often been commented upon .
It will be observed that the liquid which , under normal conditions , may really be expected to yield the eutectic structure is that of which the composition corresponds to the hypertectic point H ( figs. 1 and 3 ) .
The eutectic liquid E will , in general , as it cools , reach one branch of the supersolubility curve before it reaches the other , and the corresponding constituent will crystallise first .
If a mixture of salol and betol , having the eutectic composition , be allowed to crystallise on a microscope slide , it will solidify mainly in large plates of salol , overgrown and partly penetrated by fibres of betol of later growth .
But if the hypertectic mixture be allowed to crystallise under the same conditions , it will solidify as an intimate mixture of the two substances .
We have also prepared microscopic sections of various mixtures after they have completely solidified in test-tubes , with the following results:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Eutectic Mixture , stirred while solidifying at a Temperature below that at which it becomes Labile ( about 15 ' C.).\#151 ; This yielded a mass consisting of an intimate mixture of salol and betol .
( 2 ) Hypertectic Mixture , stirred while solidifying at a Temperature at which it is Labile ( about 15 ' C.).\#151 ; This yielded a still more intimate fine-grained mixture of salol and betol than was obtained from the eutectic .
( 3 ) Eutectic crystallised at Rest while Labile.\#151 ; The section was an intimate mixture , but not so fine grained as No. 1 .
( 4 ) Hypertectic crystallised at Rest while Labile.\#151 ; The section was an intimate mixture , but not so fine grained as No. 2 .
( 5 ) Eutectic crystallised at Rest while Metastable ( 25 ' C. to 30 ' C.).\#151 ; The mixture was inoculated with both salol and betol , and occupied five days in crystallising .
350 Spontaneous Crystallisation of Binary Mixtures .
The section showed well-defined and isolated groups of both salol and of betol , in the form of tufts or radiating discs .
( 6 ) Mixture containing 65 per cent. Salol and 35 per cent. Betol , stirred and allov:ed to crystallise in the Labile Condition ( 15').\#151 ; The section was an intimate mixture , scarcely distinguishable from ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) .
( 7 ) Mixture containing 90 per cent. Salol and 10 per cent. Betol , stirred and allowed to crystallise in the Labile Condition ( 15 ' C.).\#151 ; The section consisted mainly of small crystals of salol , and showed very little betol .
No. 5 shows clearly that the eutectic mixture does not yield the eutectic structure except in the labile condition .
It will further be noticed that the four possible freezing points which ought to be exhibited in general by a cooling binary mixture are abundantly illustrated by the foregoing experiments .
In one case they have been ascertained experimentally for one and the same mixture , namely , that having the composition 90 per cent , salol , 10 per cent , betol .
This mixture yielded crystals of salol by inoculation at 38 ' ( p. 335 ) , a labile shower of salol at 28 ' ( p. 337 ) , crystals of betol by inoculation when supercooled to 17'*5 ( p. 338 ) , and a labile shower of betol when supercooled to 10J ' ( p. 343 ) .
Finally , we may mention various anomalies in the work of previous observers , which may perhaps be explained by the results of our own experiments .
( 1 ) Heycock and Neville , in their paper on " Complete Freezing-point Curves of Binary Alloys , " * mention two sorts of precipitates encountered when the copper-tin alloys were being stirred ; one , the soft precipitate forming at the freezing point on the upper branch of their curve , and the other the abundant finely-gritty precipitate forming at the lower freezing points .
These probably correspond to our metastable and labile showers .
( 2 ) Roberts-Austenf mentions the multiple freezing points of lead-tin alloys .
These probably correspond to points on our supersolubility curves .
( 3 ) The sudden change in the velocity of crystallisation of salol and betol determined by Tammann occurs almost exactly at our temperatures of spontaneous crystallisation .
( 4 ) A eutectic structure is not generally produced at the temperature of the eutectic point unless the mixture be inoculated and stirred .
This is what would be expected from our diagram .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 189 , 1897 , p. 50 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1898 , vol. 63 , p. 452 .
The Relation of Thallium to the Alkali Metals .
351 It may be suggested that each branch of our supersolubility curve is merely the solubility curve of an unstable modification which appears as soon as the liquid is supersaturated with regard to it , and then at once become .es converted into the ordinary stable modification ; if this were so , the curves ought to meet the vertical lines corresponding to pure salol and pure betol at points giving the melting temperatures of these unstable modifications .
The temperatures so determined are not actually the melting temperatures of any known modification of salol or betol , although several modifications have been recorded .
The Relation of Thallium to the Alkali Metals : a Study of Thallium Sulphate and Selenate .
By A. E. H. Tutton , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received May 3 , \#151 ; Read May 23 , 1907 .
) In this communication are given the results of a crystallographical investigation of the normal sulphate TI2SO4 and selenate Tl2Se04 of thallium , similar to the author s previous researches on the normal sulphates and selenates of the alkali metals , potassium , rubidium , and caesium , and of ammonium.* It thus completes the work commenced in the year 1893 on the series of normal sulphates and selenates R2ge04 .
Crystals of thallium sulphate , prepared by Lamy , were investigated in 1863 by von Lang , f who found them to be orthorhombic and isomorphous with those of potassium sulphate .
The selenate does not appear to have been previously investigated , except that it was considered by Kuhlmann , J and from preliminary observations of Des Cloiseaux and v. Lang , to be also isomorphous with potassium selenate , and that the molecular volume was determined by Petterssen .
The investigation of these two salts , especially as regards the optical part , has been a difficult matter , on account of the very small size of the crystals , due to their slight solubility , which is only four and two parts respectively in 100 parts of water at the ordinary temperature .
Both salts * 'Journ .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1894 , vol. 65 , p. 628 ; 1897 , vol. 71 , p. 846 ; 1903 , vol. 83 , .
p. 1049 ; 1906 , vol. 89 , p. 1059 .
t ' Phil. Mag. ' ( 4 ) , vol. 25 , p. 248 .
I ' Bull .
Soc. Chim .
, ' 1864 ( 1 ) , p. 330 .

