VIII .
Experiments to prove that Fluids pass directly from the Stomach to the Circulation of the Blood , and from thence into the Cells of the Spleen , the Gall Bladder , and Urinary Bladder , without going throlgh the Thoracic Duct .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read January 31 , 18i1 , HAVING on a former occasion laid before the Society some experiments , to prove that fluids pass directly from the cardiac portion of the stomach , so as to arrive at the circulation of blood without going through the thoracic duct , the only known channel by which liquids can arrive there ; the present experiments are brought to confirm that opinion ; but in stating them , I wish to correct an error I was led into , in believing that the spleen was the channel , by which they are conveyed .
At the time I made my former communications , I was conscious that the facts I had ascertained were only suficient to open a new field of enquiry ; but as I might never be able to make a further progress in an investigation , beset with .
so many difTiculties , I thought it right to put then on record .
Since that time I have lost no opportutnity of devising nevw experiments to elucidate this subject ; and the circumstance of Mr. BRODIE , the assistant of my philosophical as wel as professional labours , having tied the thoracic duct ia .
some expe riments which will come before the Society , suLg , estdc to me ' the idea , that if the thoracic duct was tied , and proper experi nents made , there could be no difficulty in ascertaining whether there was any other channel between the stomach and the circulation of the blood .
With this view I instituted the following experiment , which was made on the 29th of September 18io , by Mr. BRODIE , assisted by Mr. WILLIAM BRAND and Mr. GATCOMBE .
I was unavoidably prevented from being present during the time of the experiment .
Experiment i. A ligature was passed round the thoracic duct of a rabbit , just before it enters at the junction between the left jugular and subclavian veins : an ounce of strong inifusion of rahubarb was then injected into the stomach .
In three quarters of an hour some urine was voided , in which rhubarb was distinctly detected , by the addition of potash .
An hour and a quarter after the injection of the rhubarb the animal was killed : a dram and half of urine was found in the bladder highly tinged with rhubarb , and the usual alteration of colour took place .
on the addition of potash .
The coats of the thoracic dutct had given way opposite the middle dorsal vertebra , and nearly an oiunce of chyle was found effused into the cavity of the thorax , beside a considerable quantity in the cellular membrane of the post rior mnediastinum .
Above the ru ; ured part the thoracic duct was entire , much distended with chyle ; and on tracingt upwards , the terminiation of the duct in the vein was fotund to be completely secured by the ligature .
The iacteal and Ii-mphatic vessels had given way in several parts of the abdomen , and chyle and lymph were extravasated uniderneaththe peritoneuim .
In this and the following experiments the infusion of rhubarb was employ d in preference to the prussiate of potash , in consequence of its haviKg been found in those I formerly made , that one drop of tincture of rhubarb could be detected in half an ounce 'of serum , and nothing less than a quarter of a grain of prussiate of potash in the same quantity could be made to strike a blue colour when the test was added .
Experiment s. The experiment was repeated upon a dog .
In this I was assisted by Mr. IBRODIE , Mr. WILLIAM BRAND , Mr. CLIFT , and Mr. GATCOMBE .
After the thoracic duct had been secured , two ounces of strong infusion of rhubarb were injected into the stomach , and in an hour the dog was killed .
The urine in the bladder , on the addition of potash , became deeply tinged with rhubarb .
The bile in the gall bladder , by a similar test , was found to contain rhubarb .
The lacteal vessels in several parts of te merserntery had burst , and chyle was extravasated ito the celiular membrane ; the thoracic duct had given way in the lower part of the posterior mediastinum , and chyle was extravasated .
Above the ruptured part the thoracic duct was much distended with chyle ; it was readily traced to the ligature , by which it was completely secured .
These experiments appeared to establish the fact , that the thoracic duct was not the channel through which the infusion of rhubarb was conveyed to the circulation of the blood , and it nowV became easy to ascertain , whether it passed through the spleen , by extirpating that organ , and repeating the last expeM DCC1I .
On the e21t of October , 18o0 , the following experiment , was made with the assistance of Mr. BRODIE , Mro CLIFT , Mr. GATCOMBE , and Mr. MONEY .
Experinent g. The thoracic duct near its termination was secured in a dog , , whose spleen had been removed four days before , and three ounces of infusion of rhubarb were injected into the stomach : in an hour and half the dog was killed , and the urine was found strongly impregnated with rhubarb ; and on examination , the thoracic duct was found to be completely secured by the ligature .
Several of the lacteals had burst , but the duct itself had not given way ; it was greatly distended with chyle and lymph .
By this experiment it was completely ascertained , that the spleen is not the channel through which the inftusion of rhubarb is conveyed into the circulation of the blood , as I had been led to believe , and therefore the rhubarb , in my former experiments detected in the spleen , must have been deposited there in the same manner as in the urine , and in the bile .
The detection of this error made me more anxious to avoid being misled respecting the thoracic duct ; and there ore , although there was little probability that the infusion of rhubarb could have passed into the lymphatic vessels , which open into the blood vessels of the right side of the neck , I thought it right , before I procedede further , to repeat the experiment , securing the termination of the thoracic duct on the left side , and the lymphatic trunk of the right side , where it empties itself into the angle between the jugular and subclavian vein .
This was done on the 28th of October , i81o , with the assistance of the same persons as in the last experiment , Ex-periment 4 .
The thoracic duct of a dog was tied , as in the former experiment ; in doing it the duct was wounded , and about a dram of chyle fowed out ; the lymphatic trunk of the right side was then secured .
After this , three ounces of infusion of rhubarb were injected into the stomach , and in an hour the dog was killed .
The urine and the bile were found distinctly impregnated with rhubarb .
On opening the thorax , some absorbent vessels , distended with lymph , were seen on the right side of the spine , entering an absorbent gland on the second dorsal vertebra , and the vasa efferentia from the gland were seen uniting with other absorbent vessels , and extending towards the right shoulder , where they forined a common trunk with the absorbents from the neck and axilla ; this trunk vas found inclu:ded in the ligature .
The thoracic duct was .
odel'atTyi distended with a mixture of chyle and lymplh ; in trac ing tu pwars , an opening was seen in it inmmediately below the ligature , thfrough which the contents readily passed out when priesure -as made on the duct : above this openinLg the deuct was completely secured by the ligature .
Nearly a dram of the fluid contained in the thoracic duct was colected and tested by potash , but there did not appear to be any impregnation of rhubarb .
Experiment 5 .
The last experiment was repeated on another dog , on the 31st of January , 1811 , with the assistance of Mr. BRODIE , Mr V. BRAND , Mr. CLIFT , and Mr. GATCOMBE .
The dog was killed an hour after the thoracic duct and lymphatic trunk had been secured , and the infusion of rhubarb had been injected into the stomach .
167 In tying the right lymphatic trunk , a lymphatic vessel , from the thorax going to join it , was wounded , from which 'chyle flowed out in considerable quantity during the whole time of the experiment ; a short time before the dog was killed some of it was collected , but on testing it with potash noc rhubarb was detected in it .
The urine was found impregnated with rhubarb , as was also the bile from the gall bladder ; but both in a less degree than in the last experiment .
The lacteal vessels and inesenteric glands were much distended with chyle ; and on cutting into the glands chyle flowed out in considerable quantity .
Some of this was collected and tested with potash , but showed no evidence of rhubarb being contained in it .
The thoracic duct was much distended ; it was traced to the ligature , and was found to be completely secured .
Lymphatic vessels from the right side of the posterior mediastinum , were seen extending towards the ligature that had been tied on that side ; they were nearly empty ; and the trunk formed by the junction of these with the lymphatic vessels from the right axilla , and from the right side of the neck , was seen distinctly included in the ligature .
While Mr. BRoDIE was tracing the thoracic duct , Mr. WILLIAM BRAND was making an infusion of the spleen , and showed me a section of it , in which the cells were larger , and more distinct , than I had ever seen them in a dog .
There was a slight tinge of rhubarb in the infusion from the spleen .
A sirmilar iniusion was made of the liver ; but the quantity of blood contained in it being much greater than in the spleen , the ptapearanc was not sufficiently distinct to decide whether it contaie-d rhubarb or not .
These experiments appear comp !
etely to establish the fact , that the rhubarb did not pass through the thoracic duct , and therefore must have got into the circulation of the blood by some other channel .
They likewise completely overturn the opinion I had adopted of the spleen being the medium by which the rhubarb had been conveyed , and show that the spleen answers some other purposes in the animal econonmy .
The rhubarb founAd in the spleen does not arrive there before it enters the circulation , it is therefore most probably afterwards deposited in the cells in the form of a secretion .
Tihat ' the rhubarb goes into the circulation is proved by my former experiments , in which it was detected in the splenic vein .
The prussiate of potash is hardly to be discovered in the blood of a living animal , since the proportion , which strikes a blue colour on the addition of solution of iron , is greater than the circulating fluids can be expected to contain at any one time , .
as it goes ofs by the secretions nearly as fast as it is received into the blood vessels .
In a moderately sized ass more thart two drams must be dissolved in the blood before its presence there can be detected .
That the fluid contained in the cells of the spleen is secreted there , is rendered highly probable , since it is most abundant while the digestive organs are ernployed , and scarcely at all met with when the animal 1has been sometinme w thought food .
The great objection to this opinion is , there being no excretory duct but the iymphatic vessels of the spleen ; these however are both larger and more numerous than in any other organ ; they are found in the ass to form one common trunk , .
, which opens into a large gland on the side of the thoracic duct , just above the recetattclum chyli ; and when the quic:k .
silver is made to pass through the branches of this gland , there is a trunk equally large on the opposite side , which makes an angle , and then terminates in the thoracic duct .
This fact I ascertained at the Veterinary College , assisted by the Deputy Professor Mr. SEWELL , and Mr. CLIFT .
These lymphatic vessels are equally large as the excretory ducts of any other glands , and therefore sufficient to car'y off the secretion formed in the cells of the spleen ; and where a secretion is to be carried into the thoracic duct , it would be a deviation from the general plan of the animal economy , were any but lymphatic vessels employed for that purpose .
It is a strong circumstance in favour of the secretion being so conveyed , that in the last experiment , the lacteals and cells of the spleen were unusually turgid , being placed under simiiri circumstances , the thoracic duct being so full as not to Eeceive their contents .
The purposes that are answered by such a secretion from the spleen into the thoracic duct cannot at present be ascertained , 170

