On the Magnetic Phenomena produced by Electricity .
In a Letter from Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. F.R.S. toW .
H. Wollaston , M.D.P.R.S. Read November 16 , 1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 7 .
] In repeating the experiments of Oersted , Sir Humphry found that with a voltaic battery of 100 pair of 4-inch plates , the south pole of a magnetic needle placed under the communicating wire of platinum ( the positive end of the apparatus being on the right ) was strongly attracted by the wire , which was shown to be itself magnetic , by its power of attracting steel filings , and of communicating permanent magnetism to steel bars attached to it transversely , while similar bars placed parallel to the wire were only magnetic during its connection with the voltaic apparatus .
The actual contact , however , of the steel wire with that of platinum , or other metal forming the voltaic conductor , is not necessary , for magnetism was communicated to a needle placed transversely to it , but at some distance .
Sir Humphry Davy next details some experiments , showing that the magnetic power is proportionate to the quantity of electricity passing through a given space , without any relation to the transmitting metal , and that the finer the wires , the stronger their magnetism .
He found an analogous effect produced by the discharge of a Leyden phial through a wire ; and by passing the discharge of as Leyden battery of 17 square feet through a silver wire , with a steel bar transversely attached to it of two inches in length , the latter became powerfully and permanently magnetic .
The same effect was produced at a distance of five inches through air , water , and even through thick plates of glass .
When several wires parallel to each other form part of the same circuit , each becomes similarly magnetic to the single wire ; and the opposite sides of such wires are in different magnetic states , and consequently attract each other .
By arranging two voltaic batteries parallel to each other , the positive end of the one being opposite to thei egative end of the other , and transmitting their electricities

