1889 .
] On SelenicAcid and other Selenium Compounds .
13 [ On repeating the experiments after the Easter Vacation , an effect was observed which may explain the difference between the value of the wave-length along the wire found in the above experiments and those of Hertz .
It happened that the plates after the vacation were placed further from the wall than they had been before , and it was found that the wave-length was much less , being now between seven and eight metres ; on moving the plates nearer the wall the wavelength increased , the increase being evidently due to the increase in the capacity of the plate produced by the proximity of the wall .
Thus if the distance of the plates from the walls was different in the determination of the wave-length along the wire from what it was in the determination of the wave-length through air , the wavelengths would not be equal even if the velocity of propagation were the same .
I endeavoured to determine the wave-length in air by measuring the distance between the nodes after reflection from a large metal screen , but could not succeed in fixing the position of the nodes with sufficient definiteness to determine the wave-length with any accuracy .
The fact , however , that I got a wave-length in the wire the same as that obtained by Hertz through air , is sufficient to show that it is not necessary to suppose that the velocities through the wire and air are different , but that the difference in Hertz 's results may have been due to a change in the position of the vibrator relatively to the walls of the room.\#151 ; May 15 .
] II .
" Researches in the Chemistry of Selenic Acid and other Selenium Compounds .
" By Sir Charles A. Cameron , M.D. , F.R.C.S.I. , Y.P.I.C. , Professor of Chemistry and Hygiene , R.C.S.I. , and John Macallan , F.I.C. , Demonstrator of Chemistry , R.C.S.I. Communicated by Sir Henry Roscoe , F.R.S. Received April 6 , 1889 .
Although selenic acid was prepared by Mitscherlich so far back as the year 1827 , few chemists appear to have studied its properties .
This want of interest in selenic acid is rather surprising , seeing that it possesses so close a relationship to sulphuric acid , which is so important a compound .
Finding the chemistry of selenic acid so meagre , we resolved to make an investigation of this body , with the view of bringing , so far as we could , its chemistry abreast with that of sulphuric acid , and also in the hope that its study would yield results which might throw additional light on the relations of the latter acid .
The following pages contain the results at which we have arrived .
Prof. Sir C. A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ May 2 , Preparation of Anhydrous Selenic Acid , H ?
Se04 .
Selenic acid lias hitherto been known only in a dilute form .
When heated to about , 260 ' C. it commences to decompose into selenium dioxide , oxygen , and water , which prevents any further concentration .
Berzelius describes it as containing , when of greatest strength , 4 per cent , of water ; but since his time it has been obtained in a more concentrated condition by Fabian , who , by evaporating the acid to a temperature of 265 ' , found it to have a strength of 94'9 per cent. , and by placing this acid , while still hot , under the receiver of an air-pump , increased its strength to 97-4 per cent. Sulphuric acid , as is well known , has not been obtained in a perfectly anhydrous state by ebullition\#151 ; although in its case decomposition does not occur ; for when it reaches a strength of about 98-66 per cent , it boils without further change .
When , however , an acid of this strength is surrounded with a freezing mixture , the anhydrous acid , H2S04 , crystallises out .
An attempt was first made to obtain anhydrous selenic acid by similar means .
Great care was taken to .
obtain an acid of pure quality .
An examination was specially made for nitric , sulphuric , hydrochloric , and hydrobromic acids .
Selenious acid , when present , was removed by diluting with about 30 parts of water , saturating with hydrogen sulphide in the cold , filtering and concentrating on the water-bath .
The acid thus treated was then examined for sulphuric acid and found to contain none .
A portion of the acid , when ignited , left a residue equivalent to 0'07 per cent , of the anhydrous acid present in the specimen used in the experiments ; this was ascertained to consist of neutral sodium selenate , and was , of course , derived from an acid salt , of which it was necessary to take account in the succeeding experiments .
Some of this acid was gradually heated until the temperature rose to 250 ' .
It was next poured into an open dish , and allowed to cool slowly over sulphuric acid , under an exhausted receiver .
The strength was then taken with seminormal soda solution , which was specially prepared for those experiments , by making a solution in water of pure caustic hydrate prepared from sodium , and bringing it carefully to the required strength : 1T81 cubic centimetres of soda solution were required for neutralisation by 0'4371 gram of acid , equivalent to 97-75 per cent , of seleuic acid , being thus a little stronger than that obtained by Fabian in a similar way .
The acid thus concentrated was then poured into a stout- wide glass tube , having one end closed , and the open end fitted with an india-rubber cork , through which passes a glass rod for the purpose of keeping the viscous liquid stirred , and a capillary tube for admission of air , in order to expose the acid to the full atmospheric pressure .
The necessity for those precautions in the case of sulphuric acid has 1889 .
] On SelenicAcid and other Selenium Compounds .
15 already been fully pointed out by Marignac ( ' Ann ales de Cbimie , ' vol. 39 , 1853 , p. 184 ) , the discordant results arrived at by various observers being probably due to the different conditions under which they worked .
The latter precaution is particularly necessary , as we have observed that sulphuric acid occupies less volume in the solid than in the liquid state .
The temperature of the acid was then gradually lowered .
Its viscosity increased as it became colder , until at a temperature of \#151 ; 51-5 ' C. it was as thick as soft pitch\#151 ; the tube might be inverted without the acid flowing , and a glass rod could be moved in it only with great difficulty .
Still it did not freeze , until after vigorous stirring maintained for a couple of minutes , a crystal appeared , and then the entire mass almost instantaneously crystallised , the temperature rapidly rising .
When removed to a warm room , the crystals were rather permanent , and when nearly melted , recrystallisation could easily be induced by exposure to moderate cold so long as any crystal remained , showing that previous to freezing the acid bad been in a more or less superfused condition .
It was found to be impossible , however , to separate the crystals by draining the liquid portion , as the latter was so viscous that it carried the crystals with it .
Under the microscope they were seen to be long prisms .
An attempt wras next made to examine the conditions under which selenic acid becomes strengthened in a vacuum , with the object of obtaining , if possible , a more concentrated acid ; and the following arrangement was made for the purpose:\#151 ; The glass receiver of an air-pump was fitted tightly at its neck with an india-rubber cork , through which passed a bent tube , connected horizontally with another and wider tube containing solid potash .
This was connected with a wide JJ-tube , filled with pieces of potash about half an inch long , and kept cool by immersion in a beaker of water .
Connexion was then made with a small stout flask containing the selenic acid , and varying in size from 100 to 250 cubic centimetres as required The potash-tube next the receiver was intended for the purpose of preventing acid fumes from injuring the air-pump , and for the same reason a vessel of potash was placed within the receiver .
The air-pump employed gave a very good vacuum ; when all the connexions were made , and the pump exhausted , there was often scarcely any appreciable difference in the levels of the columns of mercury in the gauge .
For temperatures up to 100 ' the flask containing the acid was heated in a beaker of water ; for higher temperatures oil was used .
Soon after commencing the experiments it was found necessary to make an arrangement for the purpose of stirring up the viscous acid and exposing fresh surfaces to the vacuum , and the following plan wTas devised :\#151 ; A test-tube , which fitted easily the neck of the flask , was shortened by removing evenly a portion of the open end .
It was 16 Prof. Sir C. A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ May 2 , then inverted and pushed down into the flask , so that when the open end wa , s below the surface of the acid , the closed end extended sufficiently far into the neck of the flask to prevent the tube from being thrown down by the ebullition of the liquid .
The vapour given off from the acid within the tube became gradually expanded as the temperature rose , and passed in a stream of bubbles through the acid , keeping it well agitated .
The tube also served the purpose of preventing splashing from the boiling acid up into the neck of the small flask .
Some selenic acid , which had been previously partially concentrated , was kept in an open dish on the water-bath forfour hours and its strength then determined : 0*6364 gram required for neutralisation 14*72 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 83*68 per cent , of selenic acid\#151 ; a strength intermediate between a monohydrate and a dihydrate .
The acid thus obtained at 100 ' , under the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere , was stronger than that obtained by Graham from dilute sulphuric acid by heating it to the same temperature in a vacuum until it ceased to lose weight\#151 ; the dihydrate , H2S04,2H20 , remaining showing the greater affinity for water possessed by the latter acid .
Selenic acid , concentrated as above described , was poured into the flask previously referred to , and gradually heated .
Weak selenic acid commenced to pass over at 56 ' , evidenced by the potash liquefying and effervescing , owing to the presence of potassium carbonate which it contained , being the ordinary commercial potash .
It was then heated slowly up to 100 ' , kept at that temperature so long as any acid distilled over* , and the strength of the residue taken : 0*9432 gram required for neutralisation 24*10 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 9*2*44 per cent , of selenic acid .
Subsequent to this experiment , acids heated on various occasions to 100 ' were found to have the following percentages of anhydrous selenic acid:\#151 ; 92*03 , 92*08 , 93*28 , and 93*70 ; the different results being found due to the varying conditions of the experiments , such as the length of time of heating , the quantity of potash , and its proximity to the acid , the amount of the latter , and the size of the flask containing it .
The acid which had been heated to 100 ' , was nest heated to 150 .
At the latter temperature the more or less dilute acid distilling over , appeared in the foirni of dense white fumes resembling those of sulphuric acid .
0*6898 gram of the residue left neutralised 18*42 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 96*58 per cent , of selenic acid .
It was again heated to 150 ' , and kept at that temperature so long as any acid distilled over : 0*417 gram of the residue left neutralised 11*21 c.c. of seminormal soda , equivalent to 97*25 per cent , of selenic acid .
A fresh portion of acid was heated to 155 ' and kept for some time at that temperature : 0*8045 gram of the residue neutralised 21 v2 c.c. 1889 .
] On SelenicAcid and other Selenium Compounds .
17 of seminormal soda , showing 97 67 per cent , of selenic- acid .
It was next heated to 162 ' , and the strength of the residue taken : O'7291 gram neutralised 19'72 c.c. of seminormal soda , equivalent to 97-85 per cent , of selenic acid , The same acid was then heated to 216 ' , and the residue obtained was allowed to remain in the flask during the night .
In the morning it was found to be frozen into a crystalline mass so hard that it was necessary to use a steel chisel in order to remove portions for examination .
When dissolved in water and tested it was found to contain some selenium dioxide .
Trials were then made to ascertain if a lower temperature would produce a similar result without decomposition of the acid ; 180 ' was found to be sufficient for the purpose , and the following course was finally adopted:\#151 ; The acid , which had been concentrated on the water-bath as far as possible , was heated gradually in the flask to 100 ' , and kept at that temperature so long as any acid distilled over , the greater part of the water being thus removed .
The U-tube was then disconnected , emptied , and refilled with stick potash .
The flask was next heated gradually to 180 ' , kept at that temperature until no more acid distilled over , and then immediately cooled .
A still better arrangement was to use so little acid that it was unnecessary to change the potash .
The acid was heated gradually and continuously up to 180 ' , allowing bubbles to pass slowly through it , as before described .
When 180 ' was reached the potash was watched , and as soon as it ceased to be acted upon the flask was immediately cooled .
Ah hour or less was generally found sufficient time for a small quantity of acid .
A specimen obtained in this way was found , when examined , to be very free from selenium dioxide , a little of it diluted with water and saturated with hydrogen sulphide , merely giving a faint yellow coloration without any precipitate .
Another portion was acidified with hydrochloric acid and barium chloride added ; on boiling the filtrate with stannous chloride it only became darkened in colour without any precipitation of selenium .
0'6725 gram was taken to estimate the strength : 18'54 c.c. of seminormal soda were required for neutralisation , equivalent to 99'73 per cent , of selenic acid .
O'724 gram of another acid , prepared in a similar way , but which contained rather more selenium dioxide than the last , required for neutralisation 19 94 c.c. of seminormal soda , equivalent to 99 64 per cent , of selenic acid .
A portion of a third acid , weighing 0'329 gram , was dissolved in water , barium chloride added , and also hydrochloric acid in order to prevent any selenious acid from precipitating .
The resulting barium selenate weighed 0'6337 gram , equivalent to 99'75 per cent , of selenic acid .
As has been already mentioned , the acid employed contained an acid potassium selenate equivalent to 0'07 per cent , of neutral sodium selenate found .
Taking this into account , and calcu-VOL .
XLVI .
c 18 Prof. Sir C. A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ May 2 , lating on the acid with the sodium selenate deducted , the three results become respectively\#151 ; i. ii .
m : 99-80 99-71 99-77 The difference between the above results and 100 per cent , must be ascribed partly to the very hygroscopic character of the acid in the anhydrous condition , and consequent slight absorption of moisture during the process of weighing .
It is necessary to observe , however , that in making the above calculations , and all through in this paper , 78"87 has been adopted as the atomic weight of selenium , the number given by Meyer and Seubert in their ' Recalculations of the Atomic Weights .
' If 78'80 , the number given in Clarke 's ' Recalculations , ' be taken , the three results become\#151 ; I. II .
III .
99-75 99-66 99*72 Petersson and Ekman state that the results of a great many analyses show that the most probable atomic weight of selenium is 79 08 ( ' Berichte Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
, 'vol .
9 , p. 1210 ) .
If this number be taken , the above percentages become respectively\#151 ; I. II .
III .
99-94 99-85 99*9-1 The results arrived at from the foregoing experiments lead to the conclusion that ( it 180 ' in a vacuum , selenic acid parts with all combined icater , and remains as the anhydrous acid , H3Se04 .
It may be well here to summarise the precautions necessary to be taken in preparing the anhydrous acid , so far as we have ascertained them .
They are briefly as follows :\#151 ; To use for the purpose an acid as pure as possible , to have a thoroughly good vacuum , to avoid too high or prolonged heating , and to keep a sufficient quantity of solid potash in close proximity to the acid all through\#151 ; which may be arranged by using a small flask , and having the tube leading from it short and wide .
Properties of Anhydrous Selenic Acid .
Anhydrous selenic acid is a white crystalline solid melting at 58 to a colourless oily-looking liquid .
When thoroughly melted it remains in a superfused state , and usually requires to be cooled to about 5 ' with constant stirring before it again freezes .
The temperature then rises rapidly to 58 ' , and remains stationary until complete solidification of the acid has taken place .
When at rest it can be cooled lower than 5 ' without freezing , and it will remain in a stoppered bottle for months , and during frosty weather , in a liquid condition .
1889.J On Selenic Acid and other Selenium Compounds .
19 It instantly solidifies at any temperature below 58 ' if a crystal of the solid acid be dropped into it , and it freezes sometimes at ordinary temperatures when rubbed with a sharp piece of glass or with the point of a pipette .
It thus exhibits the property of superfusion in a remarkable degree , and to a greater extent than anhydrous sulphuric acid , which , according to Marignac , possesses eminently the property of superfusion ( ' Annales de Chimie , ' vol. 89 , 1853 , p. 184 ) .
Its melting point , 58 ' , is higher than that of anhydrous sulphuric acid , 10'5 ' , but lower than that of telluric acid , which may be heated nearly to redness without melting .
Anhydrous selenic acid crystallises in long interlacing hexagonal prisms .
In an impure condition from the presence of selenium dioxide and other substances , its melting point is lowered , and under those circumstances it is sometimes deposited slowly and spontaneously in the form of double pyramids , many of them intersecting in pairs .
Although much has been written upon the freezing-point of sulphuric acid , but little information appears to be published regarding its crystalline form .
It is stated , however , in Graham 's ' Chemistry , ' vol. 1 , that the most concentrated acid , when frozen , often yields regular six-sided prisms of a tabular form .
Chaptal describes the crystals as being six-sided prisms terminating in pyramids with six faces .
Both accounts agree in placing them in the hexagonal system .
In order to see if the appearance of the crystals agreed with either of the above descriptions , some sulphuric acid was strengthened by boiling for some time , and then cooled down until it froze .
The crystals obtained were found to be long six-sided prisms ending in pyramids , as described by Chaptal , and no prisms of a tabular form were observed .
It is thus interesting to find that both anhydrous sulphuric and selenic acid crystallise in prisms in the hexagonal system , but it remains doubtful whether or not they are strictly iso-morphous .
Selenic acid in the anhydrous condition possesses a powerful affinity for water , absorbing it quickly from the atmosphere .
Their combination is attended with contraction and considerable evolution of heat , but less so than in the case of water and sulphuric acid .
Like the latter , it disintegrates and blackens many organic substances , such as cork , india-rubber , \amp ; c. From others it withdraws the elements of water ; thus , alcohol heated with it yields ethylene , and glycerine , acrolein .
On cellulose it has an action similar to that of strong sulphuric acid , paper being converted by it into a tough parchmentlike substance .
For this l'eason it should not be filtered through filtering paper , except when cold and very dilute .
Iodine dissolves in the supei'fused acid when heated , forming a brown-coloured solution .
It is acted on violently by pentachloride of phosphorus in the cold a inaction which we are at present examining .
Oxyrchloride of c 2 20 Prof. Sir C. A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ May 2 , phosphorus also acts strongly upon , it when warmed slightly , the reaction being attended with copious evolution of gas and reduction apparently to lower compounds .
Selenium dioxide dissolves in it when heated , but the greater part crystallises out again in the cold .
There is no evidence of formation in this way of an acid analogous to hyposulphuric acid , H2S20g .
The crystals of the solid acid dissolve in strong sulphuric acid , and also in ISTordhausen acid .
The specific gravity of the superfused acid , taken with a Sprengel tube at 15 ' , was found to be 2-6083 .
The specific gravity of the solid acid was taken in pure benzene of specific gravity 0-8851 , which is not acted upon by it in the cold , and in which it is insoluble .
As might be expected , it at once blackens commercial benzene .
Its specific gravity , taken in this way , proved to be 2 9508 at 15 .
It thus resembles anhydrous sulphuric acid in being denser in the solid than in the liquid state .
The specific gravity of the liquid acid is much greater than that of anhydrous sulphuric acid , 1*8384 ; and on the other hand the specific gravity of the solid acid is less than that of anhydrous telluric acid , which is stated by F. W. Clark to be 3 425 at 18"8 ' ( 'American Journal , ' vol. 14 , 1877 , p. 281 ; vol. 16 , 1878 , p. 401 ) .
Monohydrated Selenic Acid : its Preparation and Properties .
Some selenic acid , which had been concentrated on the water-bath , was heated for some time in a vacuum at 100 ' , and its strength determined : 0-7858 gram neutralised 20"00 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 92 08 per cent , of selenic acid .
The acid so prepared was diluted with sufficient water to reduce its strength to 88-96 per cent. , corresponding to a monohydrated acid , H2Se04 , H20 .
It was then poured into a wide tube and its temperature gradually lowered , the same precautions being taken as to stirring and admission of air as were adopted previously in freezing out the anhydrous acid .
Its viscosity increased with the fall in temperature , until at -32 it froze into a mass of crystals .
These were melted and re-crystallised several times , and the resulting product examined .
A few of the crystals obtained were long needles , but most of them were large and broad , having a general aspect to which the term " glacial " might be applied appropriately , but differing in appearance under the microscope from those of glacial sulphuric acid .
Its melting point was found to be 25 ' .
Like glacial sulphuric acid , and also lik\lt ; } anhydrous sulphuric and anhydrous selemc acid , when once melted it exhibits the property of superfusion , and to as great an extent as the last-mentioned acid , since it may be cooled to more than 50 ' below its melting point , with constant stirring , before it again freezes .
When frozen it remains quite solid at ordinary temperatures ; but if the bottle containing it be removed to a warm 1889 .
] On Selenic Acid and other Selenium Compounds .
21 room , or much handled , it commences to melt .
Like the anhydrous acid , it at once freezes at any temperature below its melting point when a crystal of the same acid is dropped into it .
It resembles the anhydrous acid also in having a melting point much higher than sulphuric acid of the same strength , that of glacial sulphuric acid being given by Pierre and Puchot as 5 ' , by Jacquelin as 8 ' , and by Marignac as 8'5 ' .
It resembles the latter acid in having a melting point lower than its anhydrous acid , but while the difference is about 2'5 ' in the case of sulphuric acid , the melting points of the two selenic acids differ by 33 ' .
In the following table their melting points are compared :\#151 ; Anhydrous .
Monohydrated .
Sulphuric acid ... ... ... . .
10'5 ' 8 ' Selenic acid ... ... ... ... .
58'0 25 It may be well to state here that 0 ' is given erroneously in several chemical works as the melting point of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
Marignac , the most recent investigator who has studied the subject , assigns the temperature 10'5 ' as its true melting point .
The superfused monohydrated selenic acid has a specific gravity of 2-3557 at 15 ' .
That of the solid acid was taken in pure benzene , in which it is insoluble , and on which it is without action at ordinary temperatures , even after standing all night .
A portion of the liquid acid was poured into the specific gravity bottle , a crystal dr opped into it , and the acid , having become firm and cold , weighed , and the bottle filled with benzene .
The specific gravity was found to be 2'6273 at 15 ' .
It thus resembles the anhydrous acid in being denser in the solid than in the liquid state ; while melting , the crystals sink rapidly in the liquid portion .
This acid commences to boil at 205 ' , the acid vapour given off being at first very weak , but it increases in strength with the rise in temperature .
A more dilute acid gives off water only until the temperature reaches 205 ' .
Dilute sulphuric acid is stated to behave in a similar manner , giving off nothing but water until the boiling point reaches 205\#151 ; 210 ' , at which temperature it has the strength of the monohydrated acid , H2S04 , H20 .
The ease with which an acid of this strength can be obtained and crystallised , supplies a means of separating impurities from selenic acid , all that is necessary to do being to boil a dilute acid until the temperature reaches 205 ' , cool , and drop in a crystal from an acid already frozen ; the resulting crystals can then be melted and recrystallised .
It may be well here to draw attention to the conflicting statements which are made in various works regarding the crystalline form of glacial sulphuric acid .
Watts 's ' Dictionary , ' vol. 5 , and Richter 's 22 Prof. Sir 0 .
A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ May 2 , \#171 ; Inorganic Chemistry , ' state that it crystallises in six-sided prisms ; but in several chemical works the crystals are described as rhombic prisms , while Pelouze and Premy mention that it forms large transparent crystals which are rhomboidal prisms .
The crystalline form is thus referred to three different systems .
The first description is probably copied by mistake from that of the anhydrous acid .
The most recent investigators of the point are Jacquelain ( 'Annales de Chimie , ' vol. 30 , 1850 , p. 343 ) , and Pierre and Puchot ( ' Annales de Chimie , ' vol. 2 , 1874 , p. 164 ) .
The latter say that the crystalline form appeared to them to be the oblique rhomboidal prism , and that they obtained the crystals , some very large , others thin and very long , Jacquelain describes them as being oblique prisms very inclined and very large ; and states that he obtained them , by a rather slow crystallisation , distinctly oblique and very short , and by a quick crystallisation , in very long oblique prisms .
The Existence of higher Hydrates .
A portion of dilute selenic acid was concentrated on the water-bath and its strength taken : 0'8603 gram neutralised 19'48 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 81'92 per cent , of selenic acid .
The acid so prepared was diluted with sufficient water to reduce its strength to 80'11 per cent. , corresponding to a dihydrated acid , H2Se04,2H20 , and its temperature then gradually lowered .
When kept at \#151 ; 51 ' for some time it became as viscous as thick syrup , but did not freeze .
The last acid was then diluted to a strength of 57-32 per cent , of selenic acid , corresponding to a hydrate of the composition H2Se04,6H20 .
The acid thus prepared did not freeze when kept at \#151 ; 49 ' , and was quite liquid at that temperature .
Although no proof of the existence of higher hydrates than the monohydrated acid was obtained in the foregoing experiments , it appears probable that a dihydrated acid , and perhaps other hydrates , are capable of existing .
Sulphuric and telluric acid have both been obtained as dihydrates .
Considerable heat is evolved when monohydrated selenic acid is mixed with sufficient water to reduce its strength to that of a dihydrated acid .
When , the latter is further diluted , there is an additional slight evolution of heat .
It is probable that as the freezing point of monohydrated selenic acid is considerably below that of the anhydrous acid , so the freezing point of a dihydrated acid is still lower .
In order to get an approximate idea of the amount of water which anhydrous selenic acid absorbs , a portion weighing 0'9776 gram was placed on a watch-glass protected from dust , but with free access of air .
After twenty-four hours the acid weighed 2'0284 grams , showing an absorption in that time of between 8 and 9 molecules of water by 1 molecule of anhydrous acid .
Another portion weighing 0'4416 gram was exposed until it ceased to 1889 .
] On Selenic Acid and other Selenium Compounds .
23 absorb water ; the acid then weighed 1*8152 grams , indicating absorption of rather more than 25 molecules of water by 1 molecule of anhydrous acid .
Having arrived at this stage , it commenced to give off a little of the water which it had previously taken up , but the weather became warmer just at this period , so that probably the above amount does not represent the total absorption of which the acid is capable .
It is less , however , than the amount taken up by the molecule of sulphuric acid , which is variously stated at from 80 to 100 molecules of water .
The Conditions which affect the Freezing Points of Selenic Acid and Sulphuric Acid .
It has long been recognised that in order to determine the melting point of a chemical compound with accuracy it is necessary , by crystallisation or other means , to obtain it in a pure condition .
The necessity for such a precaution is -well shown in the case of the oxides and acids of sulphur and selenium .
An example taken from the former class of bodies is furnished by sulphuric anhydride .
Up to a comparatively recent date great diversity of opinion prevailed regarding the melting point of this substance until Weber showed that , as hitherto examined , it had usually contained a minute quantity of water , which had the effect of altering its melting point , crystalline form , and other properties .
Sulphuric acid supplies another instance of a similar effect .
Its melting point in the anhydrous condition is 10*5 ' , while that of the monohydrated acid is 8 ' ; yet commercial sulphuric acid has usually been found to remain liquid above a temperature of \#151 ; 30 ' or \#151 ; 40 ' , and it is stated in some chemical works that by addition of a little water to the commercial acid its freezing point has been lowered to \#151 ; 80 ' ; but it is not mentioned whether or not this occurred in closed or open vessels .
A still more striking example of the influence of want of purity upon the melting point is afforded by selenic scid .
In the anhydrous state it melts at 58 ' , but a slightly dilute acid , as we have found , was irozen only when a temperature of \#151 ; 51*5 ' -was reached , showing a fall of 109*5 ' , and probably further dilution would be attended by a still greater reduction of the freezing point .
The depression of the freezing point can be due only partly to superfusion since the super-fused anhydrous acid freezes at about 5 ' .
The monobydrate present in the dilute acid therefore exerts an influence in lowering the freezing point of the anhydrous acid , and also its melting point .
An analogous action probably occurs in the case of some metallic salts , which , although without apparent chemical action upon each other , have a lower fusing point when mixed than when heated separately .
A consideration of the foregoing facts leads to the conclusion that dilute selenic acid having a strength greater than 88*96 per cent , contains the 24 Prof. Sir C. A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ May 2 , anhydrous and also the monohydrated acid existing a state , and exerting a solvent action upon each other .
In the case of sulphuric acid a similar action evidently occurs .
The effects of agitation and of alteration of pressure upon the freezing points of the above acids have already been referred to .
The Method used in Freezing Selenic Acid .
Liquefied sulphur dioxide was poured into a thick glass tumbler , holding about half a litre , fitting into a somewhat wider and deeper cylindrical gas jar , which served to retain any of the dioxide splashed from the interior vessel , the whole being imbedded deeply in a considerable quantity of cotton wadding contained in a wooden box .
A rapid current of air was driven through the sulphur dioxide , the air being first dried by means of sulphuric acid and then cooled by passing through a leaden worm surrounded by a mixture of salt and pounded ice , or less effectively , sodium sulphate and hydrochloric acid .
Any desired degree of cold within limits could easily be maintained by regulating the current .
When the outside air was at 0 ' , about half a kilogram of sulphur dioxide was found sufficient for more than two hours ' use , evaporation taking place but slowly at the low temperature reached , the latter , measured with an alcohol thermometer , falling below \#151 ; 50 ' C. In warmer weather nearly as low a temperature was obtainable , but consumption of the sulphur dioxide was much more rapid .
No arrangement of freezing mixtures produced nearly so low degrees of cold as were attained in the above manner .
Doubtless when a supply of dry snow is available , and the weather is very cold , so that the apparatus and materials used can be well cooled down previous to mixing , a very low temperature is obtainable by ordinary freezing mixtures , but those conditions are not often to be met with in these climates .
On the other hand , sulphur dioxide is cheap and easily procurable , and convenient when used in the manner descr ibed .
The Specific Gravities of the Higher Strengths of Selenic Acid .
The specific gravities of selenic acid for the higher strengths , taken in the liquid state at 15 ' , are given in the following table .
The most concentrated acid , of 9973* per cent , strength , has been referred to under the head of the preparation of the anhydrous acid j its specific gravity , 2-6083 , was taken while in the superfused condition .
The next acids down to 94'74 per cent , were obtained by diluting that of 9973 per cent. The acid having a strength of 93 ' 70 per cent , was obtained by heating dilute acid in a vacuum at * 99'73 per cent , of selenic acid , acid sodium selenate , equivalent to 0 07 per cent , of neutral sodium selenate , and 0'20 per cent , of water ( Se being = 78 87 ) .
1889 .
] On Selenic Acid and other Selenium Compounds .
100 ' , and it supplied the following strengths , down to 82'52 per cent , by progressive dilution .
That of 81'73 per cent , was prepared by concentration on the water-bath , and the remaining four by dilution of the latter .
Neither the acid heated in a vacuum , nor that which was kept on the water-bath , contained any trace of selenious acid .
Table I. Percentage of anhydrous selenic acid .
Specific gravity .
99-73 99-08 98-68 98-16 97-37 96-97 96-16 94-74 93-70 92-83 91-59 90-06 89-20 88-55 87-34 86-60 85-67 84-59 83-82 82-52 81-73 80-86 79-99 79-06 73-43 2-6083 2-5993 2-5901 2-5790 2-5676 2-5595 2-5424 2-5105 2-4852 2-4534 2-4218 2-3863 2-3642 2-3402 2-3158 2-2946 2-2712 2-2463 2-2196 2-1878 2-1694 2-1438 2-1213 2-0940 1-9659 Table II is calculated from Table I , and gives specific gravities interpolated from equal increments of strength .
It will , perhaps , be found most convenient for purposes of calculation , and for showing the relation of the rate of increase of specific gravity to that of the strength .
Prof. Sir C. A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ May 2 , Table II .
Percentage of anhydrous selenic acid .
Specific gravity .
99-73 2-6083 99-50 2-6051 99-00 2-5975 98*50 2-5863 98-00 2-5767 .
9750 2-5695 97-00 2-5601 96-00 2-5388 95-00 2-5163 94-00 2-4925 93-00 2-4596 92-00 2-4322 91-00 2-4081 90-00 2-3848 89-00 2-3568 88-00 2-3291 87-00 2-3061 86-00 2-2795 85-00 2-2558 84-00 2-2258 83-00 2-1946 82-00 2T757 81-00 2-1479 80-00 2-1216 79-00 2-0922 73-50 1-9675 The rate of increase of specific gravity is not uniform for equal increments of strength .
It diminishes as the strength increases , as in the case of sulphuric acid , but not regularly .
The diminution is very marked at the highest strengths .
When sulphuric acid has arrived at the greatest strength attainable by ebullition\#151 ; 98'66 per cent.\#151 ; its specific gravity is stated to decrease until the anhydrous acid , H3S04 , is reached .
Selenic acid behaves dissimilarly in this respect ; the increase of its specific gravity , although not uniform , is maintained throughout .
Berzelius ( ' Traite de Chimie , ' 1830 ) mentions that selenic acid of 95'9 per cent , strength has a specific gravity of 2'6 .
Fabian gives 2-609 as the specific gravity of an acid of 94"9 per cent , strength , and 2*627 for an acid of 97'4 per cent. It will be seen that these results do not agree , nor are they consistent with those we have obtained .
If values for the strengths mentioned be calculated from the foregoing 1889 .
] On Selenic Acid and other Selenium Compounds .
27 tables , an acid of 95'9 per cent , will be found to have a specific gravity of 2'5366 , while the specific gravities of 94*9 per cent , and 97'4 per cent , acids will be respectively 2 5141 and 2'5680 , being less than those assigned above .
Furthermore , the difference between the two specific gravities given by Fabian is much less than we find between two acids differing by 2*5 per cent. The most probable explanation of the discrepancy is that the acids which gave the above results contained sufficient selenium dioxide to raise their specific gravities appreciably .
It may be shown that the effect of the development of selenium dioxide in selenic acid is to increase the specific gravity relatively to the acidity .
In the acids above-mentioned , selenium dioxide would exist as such , and not as selenious acid , owing to dissociation of the latter at a temperature below those at which the acids were formed , and the weak affinity for water possessed by the resulting dioxide .
Clausnizer ( ' Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 196 , 1879 , p. 265 ) gives the specific gravity of selenium dioxide at 15-3 ' as 3'9538 .
We have also recently taken its specific gravity , and are in a. position to confirm his result .
It is thus more than one and a half times as dense as the strongest selenic acid .
C. Blarez ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 103 , 1886 , pp. 804\#151 ; 806 ) has examined the saturating power of selenious acid .
He finds that it is monobasic with cochineal or methyl-orange .
With litmus , it is monobasic to ammonia , lime , strontia , and baryta , but with soda or potash the litmus only becomes blue-violet when about 1'5 equivalent of alkali is added .
We have obtained a like result with soda or potash and litmus .
When one equivalent of acid is saturated , there is a distinct change in the colour of the litmus , so that in the absence of other acids it might be used as an indicator for selenious acid .
Taking 1*5 equivalent of alkali as the limit , the molecule of selenium dioxide in solution will have a less saturating power than that of selenic acid in the ratio of 2 : 1'5 .
This will be partly counterbalanced by the higher molecular weight of the latter , but the final effect of the substitution of selenium dioxide for selenic acid will be to reduce the acidity .
A gravimetric method , by which selenium dioxide would be oxidised and estimated as selenic acid , would also show a less acidity compared with the specific gravity than if the pure acid were used , but not to the same extent as when a volumetric process is employed for estimating the strength .
The Action of Heat upon Selenic Acid .
Action of Heat in a Vacuum.\#151 ; The effect of heating dilute selenic acid in a vacuum up to 180 ' has already been described\#151 ; dilute acid distils until that temperature is reached , when the anhydrous acid remains .
The result of further heating is merely for a time to raise the 28 Prof. Sir C. A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ May 2 , temperature ; the acid does not distil in the anhydrous condition .
At about 200 ' it begins to decompose slowly , and at higher temperatures rapidly , into selenium dioxide , oxygen , and water .
The latter serves to dilute a portion of the remaining acid , which then at once distils .
In order to examine the effect of distilling the anhydrous acid destructively in a vacuum , a portion was heated in a flask connected with a condensing arrangement until rapid decomposition took place .
The residue always consisted of a mixture of anhydrous selenic acid with selenium dioxide , the proportion of the latter increasing with the rise of temperature and length of time of heating .
The former was proved to be present by dropping in a crystal of anhydrous acid , when the liquid froze , and it also gave a coloration in the cold with the selenium test for the same acid which wTill be described hereafter .
A portion which had been distilled for some time left a residue of which 07107 gram neutralised 18*50 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , using litmus as indicator , equivalent to 94'2 7 per cent , of acid calculated as selenic\#151 ; a result which might be expected , owing to the influence of the selenium dioxide in diminishing the acidity , as has been already pointed out .
The distillate consisted of selenium dioxide mixed with selenic acid .
The latter was in a dilute state , since it would not solidify on addition of a crystal of anhydrous acid , nor would it respond to the selenium test : 0*4703 gram neutralised 11*11 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 85*46 per cent , of acid calculated as selenic .
Taking into account the diminution of acidity caused by the selenium dioxide , it is evident that a very concentrated , although not anhydrous , acid distils over .
Action of Heat under ordinary Pressures.\#151 ; When dilute selenic acid is boiled at oi'dinary pressures nothing but water is evolved until 205 ' is reached , at which temperature it has the composition of the monohydrated acid .
In these respects it behaves like dilute sulphuric acid .
After passing 205 ' the distillate contains at first mere traces of selenic acid , but its strength gradually increases .
A portion of acid distilled between 205 ' and 227 ' yielded a distillate of which 0*6826 gram neutralised 0*10 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 0*53 per cent , of selenic acid .
On further heating from 227 ' to 260 ' a distillate was obtained , of which 0*3818 gram neutralised 0*32 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 3*03 per cent , of selenic acid .
At the latter temperature the acid commenced to distil over in white fumes .
0*6878 gram of the residue left at 260 ' neutralised 17*76 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 93*41 per cent , of selenic acid .
At higher temperatures a portion of the acid is decomposed , the distillate being kept weak by the water continuously set free in the decomposition ; and at still higher temperatures .
much selenium dioxide also distils over .
A portion of acid 1889 .
] On Selenic Acid and other Selenium .
29 which commenced to boil at 235 ' was heated until the temperature rose to 325 ' : 2*1542 grams of the distillate neutralised 3 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 5*04 per cent , of selenic acid .
The residue was then further heated until the greater part of the acid was decomposed and the strength of the distillate taken : 1*6176 grams neutralised 16*5 c.c. of seminormal soda solution , equivalent to 36*90 per cent , of acid calculated as selenic , but much of the acidity was due to selenious acid , a large amount of which was present in the distillate .
It is thus seen that the acid which distils under ordinary pressures is always highly dilute .
When anhydrous selenic acid is strongly heated under ordinary pressures a portion of it is decomposed into selenium dioxide , oxygen , and water , the latter serving to dilute the remaining acid .
It will then no longer solidify on addition of a crystal of the anhydrous acid .
After further heating it becomes sufficiently dilute to distil over in the manner already described .
It is instructive to compare with this the action which takes place in the case of anhydrous sulphuric acid .
Marignac found ( 'Annales de Chimie , ' vol. 39 , 1853 , p. 184 ) , that the latter when heated gives off sulphuric anhydride until the remaining acid is reduced to the same strength as that yielded by a more dilute acid on prolonged ebullition\#151 ; about 98*66 per cent. In the case of selenic acid the anhydride is evidently unable to exist free at elevated temperatures , but breaks up into selenium dioxide and oxygen .
It is worthy of note that a remarkable coincidence exists between the temperature at which selenic acid is decomposed and that at which selenium dioxide sublimes .
The latter is not stated very definitely in any of the chemical text-books ; we have found , however , that at 280 ' rapid sublimation takes place , while at 250 ' volatilisation proceeds slowly .
When selenic acid is kept for some time at the latter temperature it is always found to contain traces of selenium dioxide , while at 280 ' decomposition proceeds with rapidity .
It is probable that a connexion exists to a considerable extent between the phenomena , and that the explanation of the coincidence may be that the comparatively weak affinities which bind the molecule of selenic acid are unable to prevent its disruption when once a temperature is reached at which the tendency of its constituents to separate is aided by the expansion attending a change to the gaseous condition .
We have seen that both phenomena are affected by the temperature ; they are also dependent to some extent upon the pressure .
Anhydrous selenic acid commences to dissociate in a vacuum at about 200 ' .
We found that when selenious acid was heated under similar circumstances water was quickly evolved , and after prolonged heating of the residue a distinct white ring of selenium dioxide was deposited on the cold portion of the neck of the fiask .
Prof. Sir C. A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ May 2 , The Action of Sulphur upon Acid .
When powdered sulphur is mixed with liquid anhydrous seleuic acid there is no action in the cold , but if the mixture is heated to 63 ' the sulphur dissolves in the acid with production of an exceedingly deep indigo-blue colour .
There is some action , but slight , at 58 ' .
The body which is produced is very unstable , since it begins to decompose at the temperature at which it is formed , with evolution of sulphur dioxide , and reduction of the selenic acid to selenious acid .
If water is added when the colour has first developed , sulphur is deposited in soft yellow flakes ; but after decomposition has commenced , the addition of water throws down red selenium chiefly , owing to the reaction between the sulphurous and selenions acids which are formed .
A similar action has long been known to occur between sulphur and sulphuric acid .
In 1804 Bucholz ( Gehlen 's Neues Journal der Chemie , ' vol. 3 , p. 7 ) discovered that sulphur dissolved in the latter acid with the formation of a blue colour , the sulphur being re-precipitated on addition of water .
This reaction was subsequently investigated by Vogel , Schweigger , Berzelius , Wach , and Stein , and in 1875 Weber succeeded in isolating the blue compound ( Poggendorff 's ' Annalen , ' vol. 156 , p. 531 ) , and discovered it to be a sesquioxide of sulphur , S303 , but very unstable , decomposing at ordinary temperatures with evolution of sulphur dioxide .
The Action of Selenium upon Selenic Acid .
A reaction takes place between selenium and anhydrous selenic acid in the cold .
The selenium dissolves in the acid with production of an intense and beautiful green colour .
The presence of a minute quantity of water prevents the colour from developing fully until the acid is warmed .
The acid is capable of dissolving a considerable quantity of selenium .
If kept in a closed vessel the colour thus produced is very permanent , being unaffected for months during summer weather , but if the acid be heated to 75 ' the colour disappears , and the selenic acid is found to be partly reduced to selenious acid .
Addition of water , when the colour has developed , throws down a voluminous red precipitate of selenium ; and exposure to the air in an open vessel for a few minutes is sufficient , from the same cause , to change the green colour to red .
It will be shown hereafter that this green colour is probably caused by the formation of a new oxide of selenium .
Its production with the anhydrous acid affords a test for the latter , which we have already made use of in the examination of the effect of heat upon selenic acid .
In 1827 Magnus found that selenium was dissolved by strong sulphuric acid , with development of a green colour , and was re-precipitated on addition of water .
Berzelius and Fischer subsequently 1889 .
] On Selenic Acid and other Selenium Compounds .
investigated the reaction , and in 1875 Weber ( Poggendorff 's ' Annalen , ' vol. 156 , p. 545 ) isolated the green compound , and found it to be a sulphoxide of selenium , SeS03 .
The colour given by selenium with sulphuric acid is a dark green , not so bright as that which it produces with selenic acid .
The Action of Tellurium upon Selenic Acid .
Like selenium , tellurium reacts upon anhydrous selenic acid in the cold , but with production of a purple-red colour .
Even when the acid is not perfectly anhydrous , it will still give a coloration in the cold .
The compound thus formed is probably very unstable , since the colour disappears at so low a temperature as 19 ' , the selenic acid being partly reduced to selenious acid .
If water is added when the colour has developed , tellurium is thrown down in sooty flakes , and exposure to moist air produces the same effect .
Tellurium reacts in a similar manner with strong sulphuric acid , with development of a red colour , and re-precipitation on addition of water .
This was first observed by Muller von Reiclienstein .
In 1789 the same reaction was investigated by Klaproth , and afterwards by Magnus and Fischer .
The red compound was isolated by Weber in 1882 ( 'Journal fur Praktische Chemie , ' vol. 25 , p. 218 ) , and soon afterwards independently by Divers and Shimose ( ' Journal of the Chemical Society ( Transactions ) , ' vol. 43 , p. 319 ) , and was ascertained to be tellurium sulphoxide , TeS03 .
Comparison of Sulphoxides with Selenoxides .
The coloured compounds first formed by the action of sulphur , selenium , and tellurium upon sulphuric acid were subsequently produced by the action of the same bodies upon sulphuric anhydride , and were isolated by forming them in the latter manner , and then removing the excess of anhydride .
As has been already mentioned , they were found to be sulphoxides having the composition respectively SS03 , SeS03 , and TeS03 .
Considering the similarity of the reactions which produce them , and of the decompositions to which they are liable , it is very probable that the coloured bodies formed with selenic acid are selenoxides , analogous to the sulphoxides already known , the sulphur in the latter being replaced by selenium .
A comparison of the formulae of the two series of bodies as represented in the following table , leads to some interesting considerations :\#151 ; Colour of compound .
Blue Green Red Sulphoxides .
sso3 SeS03 TeS03 Selenoxides .
SSe03 SeSe03 TeSe03 32 Prof. Sir C. A. Cameron and Mr. J. Macallan .
[ May 2 , The green body formed by the action of selenium upon selenic acid is , in all probability , a new oxide of selenium , having the composition Se003 , analogous to the sesqnioxide of sulphur formed by the action of sulphur upon sulphuric acid .
The colour of the above compounds appears to be almost entirely due to the element which is added on to the anhydride ; the sulphur or seleuium in the residual portion of the molecule has scarcely any effect upon the colour .
The green body SeS03 must be isomeric with the blue compound SSe03 , and consequently the atoms of sulphur and selenium in each of these bodies must occupy dissimilar positions in the molecule .
The Possible Existence of Selenic Anhydride .
A consideration of the foregoing facts leads to the conclusion that selenic anhydride , which has not up to the present time been obtained , is yet capable of existing in a free condition .
Just as the sulphoxides are direct addition compounds of sulphur , selenium , and tellurium respectively , with sulphuric anhydride , so the selenoxides must be regarded as addition compounds of the elements mentioned , with selenic anhydride .
It is difficult to conceive that bodies so constituted are capable of existing free , and that the anhydride is unable to do so .
On the other hand , it is probable that it dissociates at a comparatively low temperature , but one that is higher than 75'\#151 ; the highest temperature at which the most stable of the selenoxides has been as yet found to exist .
Selenious anhydride is always obtained , and not selenic , under similar conditions to those which produce sulphuric anhydride , and involving a high temperature .
Wb have examined the action of heat upon various selenates .
Those selected for the purpose were the selenates of antimony , bismuth , platinum , lead , and silver , and also ferric and mercuiic selenates .
In no instance was selenic anhydride obtained , but selenious anhydride was evolved in all cases when the above selenates were strongly heated .
Yon Grerichten ( 'Liebig 's Annalen , ' vol. 168 , 18/ 3 , p. -14 ) endeavoured to form selenic anhydride in a similar manner to that by which sulphuric anhydride is usually obtained\#151 ; by leading a mixture of oxygen and the vapour of selenious anhydride through red-hot platinum sponge .
He states that in one experiment a white deposit was obtained which consisted partly of selenious anhydride , but probably also contained selenic anhydride , since it dissolved m water with a hissing sound , and the solution was found to contain selenic acid .
In subsequent experiments a decidedly negative result was obtained , since only selenious anhydride was found in the product .
1889 .
] On Selenic Acid and other Selenium Compounds .
In order to examine if selenic anhydride is produced in the manner just described , the following experiments were made:\#151 ; Some platinum sponge was introduced into a combustion tube , and a quantity of selenious anhydride placed behind it .
The platinum sponge was kept at a red heat , and the selenious anhydride was also heated until it sublimed .
Oxygen , which was first dried by passing through a series of tubes containing calcium chloride and sulphuric acid , was led through the platinum sponge , carrying the vapour of the selenious anhydride with it .
A white deposit formed in front of the platinum sponge , which , on examination , was found to consist solely of selenious anhydride .
The experiment was repeated , substituting selenium for selenious anhydride .
The vapour of the selenium , on passing through the platinum sponge , was oxidised to selenious anhydride , but no selenic anhydride wras formed .
The next experiment was similar to the first , but platinum black was substituted for platinum sponge .
As before , only selenious anhydride was deposited .
In the next experiment selenious anhydride was mixed with platinum sponge , and placed within a tube arranged in such a way that it could be placed in an oil-bath .
The temperature was then raised gradually to 250 ' , oxygen being led through continuously .
At the temperature mentioned a sublimate formed , and this , as well as the platinum sponge , was treated with water and tested , but no selenic acid was found .
The next experiment was similar to the last , except that the selenious anhydride was mixed with platinum black instead of platinum sponge , but , as before , nothing but selenious anhydride was obtained .
As may be seen from the above experiments , we have been unable to confirm the observation made by von Gerichten .
We have found that oxygen in the active condition is unable to oxidise selenious anhydride .
Oxygen , which was first passed through a series of drying tubes , was ozonised by means of a Houzeau 's ozoniser , and then led slowly through a tube containing selenious anhydride for three hours and a half .
At the end of that time the tube was disconnected , the ozone displaced by a current of dried air , and the contents of the tube dissolved in water and tested for selenic acid , but no trace of it was detected .
The Selenates of Antimony , , and Platinum .
In the examination of the action of heat upon selenates , the three above mentioned were included .
We have been unable to find any published account of these , and accordingly give here a short description of them .
Antimoyiious Selenate.\#151 ; This body was formed by heating metallic VOL. XLVI .
* D 34 On Selenic Acid and other Selenium Compounds .
[ May 2 , antimony with selenic acid until it dissolved , and then continuing the heating until the excess of acid was driven off .
It forms a white crystalline mass , which under the microscope is seen to consist of minute prisms .
It is not very soluble in acids , hut on boiling with selenic acid for some time it dissolves slightly , but apparently without formation of an acid salt , as the crystals deposited on evaporating the solution have the same shape and size as the original salt .
It is not decomposed on boiling with water , nor is it soluble ; if , however , the excess of selenic acid has not been expelled in its preparation , a little of it dissolves in the weak acid formed , and crystallises out again on cooling .
Bismuthous Selenate.\#151 ; This was prepared by boiling bismuthous carbonate with selenic acid , and continuing the heating until the excess of acid was expelled .
It crystallises in minute white prisms .
It is insoluble in water , and is not decomposed by it on boiling , but if selenic acid is present it dissolves .
It is also soluble in sulphuric acid on boiling , and readily in hydrochloric and nitric acid .
Potash and soda decompose it , uniting with the selenic acid .
PlatinicSelenate.\#151 ; This was prepared by heating platinic chloride with selenic acid until the hydrochloric and excess of selenic acid were expelled .
It is a dark-brown body , which dissolves slightly in water on boiling , forming a yellowish-brown solution .
It is insoluble iu alcohol .
It dissolves readily in hydrochloric acid , and leaves metallic platinum on ignition .
The Action of Phosphoric Anhydride upon Selenic Acid .
When sulphuric acid is heated- strongly with phosphoric anhydride sulphuric anhydride is evolved ; on the other hand , the effect of heating a mixture of anhydrous selenic acid and phosphoric anhydride to a high temperature is , that selenious anhydride is given off , and not selenic .
In order to see if a different reaction occurs between the latter two bodies at a lower temperature , some anhydrous acid was mixed with phosphoric anhydride in a flask , which was then tightly closed and placed in the water-oven .
After heating for some time a clear solution was obtained , and the flask was then removed and allowed to stand in the cold .
Crystals were slowly deposited , which under the microscope were seen to be transparent cubes .
The acid liquid was drained off , and the crystals examined .
So far as an analysis could be carried out the result agrees with the view that the body thus obtained is selenic anhydride , Se03 , but the quantity ot material at our disposal at the time was too small to admit of its satisfactory separation and examination .
We are , however , at present engaged in operating upon larger quantities , and hope , at no distam date , to submit our results to the Royal Society .
1889 .
] Wave-length of chief Fluting Manganese Spectrum .
35 Selenium Oxychloride .
It may be useful here to mention a reaction , hitherto undescribed , by which selenium oxychloride can be obtained .
It consists in distilling a mixture of sodium chloride and selenium dioxide .
The reaction is a simple one\#151 ; 2Se02 +2NaCl = Na2Se03 + Se0Cl2 .
I Half the selenium remains as sodium selenite .
III .
" On the Wave-length of the chief Fluting seen in the Spectrum of Manganese .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received April 6 , 1889 .
In a paper communicated to the Royal Society in November , 1887 , I pointed out that in the spectra of certain classes of heavenly bodies there are several lines and flutiugs which occur in the low-temperature spectra of meteorites .
In a subsequent paper* I gave tables showing further that lines occupying nearly the same position had also been recorded in the spectra of auroras .
The coincidences were really surprising , and I therefore suggested that the spectrum of the aurora might in part be due to particles of meteoric dust in the upper parts of our atmosphere .
One of the most constant flutings thus apparently common to the spectra of meteorites , meteor-swarms ( nebulas and stars as well as comets ) , and aurorae is one near wave-length 558 .
I , therefore , suggested that the remnant of this fluting , which is seen in the spectrum of manganese ( whether due to the metal or a compound is unimportant in the present connexion ) , was the origin of the chief line of the aurora spectrum .
I distinctly stated that only small dispersion had been employed of set pui'pose , and that the wave-lengths given had no claim to great accuracy .
I rom a detailed discussion of all the published observations available to me , f the suggestion as to the meteoritic nature of the aurora seemed fully justified , both as regards the general characteristics of the spectra and the positions of the lines and flutings observed , but I was particularly careful to point out that the object of my paper was mainly to direct further inquiries .
Dr. Huggins has communicated an interesting paper to the Royal Society , J in which he gives the results of some very careful measure# ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , p. 320 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 45 , p. 217 .
X 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 45 , p. 430 .
D 2

