42 Mr. E. A. Minchin .
Note on the Larva and the the segmenting germinal area , by the parablast of mesoblastic ova.* I was under the impression when these observations were made , that fat had never been found , in this form , in the placenta before .
I find that I am to some extent anticipated by a paper in the ' Archiv fur Gynaekologie , ' February , 1896.f One of the authors ( Aschoff ) wished to examine a malignant uterine growth , which he believed to be of the nature of Reci Before doing so , he examined several specimens of young human ova , in order , as he says , to learn something of the structure of growing chorionic villi .
Some of the specimens he hardened in Flemming 's solution , and in all of these he found fat in the plasmodial layer of the villi .
Aschoff 's description of the fat deposit agrees very closely with that already given of my own specimen .
" An den Flemmingschen Praparaten ist das Syncytium dadurch ausgezeicbnet , dass es in seiner Randzone eine dichte Anhaufung feinster Fetttropfchen tragt .
Dieselbe sind bald sehr fein , bald grobkornig , aber in den betreffenden Abschnitten des Syncytiums stets von gleicher Gross ... ... ... .Die Fetttropfchen iiberall sich finden , wo Chorionepithelzellen , in directesten Stoff wechselaustausch mit den Intervillosenraumen treten " fp .
531 ) .
Aschoff scarcely appreciates the physiological importance of the observation , but there can be no doubt that his observations and my own are mutually confirmatory .
'4 Note on the Larva and the Postlarval Development of Leucosolenia variahilis , H. sp. , with Remarks on the Development of other Asconidse .
" By E. A. Minchin , M.A. , Fellow of Merton College , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor E. Ray Lankester , F.R.S. Received April 25 , \#151 ; Read May 21 , 1896 .
Introductory Remarks .
Through the kind hospitality of Professor de Lacaze-Duthiers , I was able to spend the spring and summer of last year at the marine laboratories of Banyuls-sur-Mer and Roscoff , where I was chiefly engaged in studying the embryology of the Ascons .
In Banyuls I obtained the larvae of Leucosolenia , H. sp. , in June , and of L. reticulum , O.S. sp. , in July .
In Roscoff I found the larvae of L. variabilis , H. sp. , all through August and the early part of September , * " Formation of the Germinal Layers in Teleostei , " ' Roy .
Soc. Edin .
Trans./ 1896 .
t ' Ueber bosartige Tumoren der Chorionzotten , " Apfelstedt und Aschoff .
PostlarvalDevelopment of Leucosolenia variabilis , sp. 43 and of L. coriacea , Mont , sp. , in September .
Owing to the inexperi-enee with which I approached the difficult task of rearing these larvae , my results are not so complete in all details as I could wish , but in the case of L. variabilis I was able to obtain a more or less perfect developmental series , and in the other three species I was able to make out satisfactorily the main points in the metamorphosis , especially the important question of the relation between the cell-layers of the larva and those of the adult .
I hope to bring my investigations to completion during the present year , but , in the meantime , the results obtained seemed to me of sufficient importance to form the subject of a preliminary note .
The material which I collected and preserved was further studied at Munich , in the laboiatoiy of Professor Richard Hertwig , to whom I am indebted for much kind help and advice , as well as hospitality .
The Development of Leucosolenia variabilis ( Ascandra variabilis , H. ) .
The hrvee of L. variabilis are of the so-called amphiblastula type , but in many respects more primitive than the amphiblastula larva hitherto described in other Calcarea .
The minute larvae ( 70\#151 ; 80 in length , 50\#151 ; 60 p in breadth ) leave the mother sponge by the osculum , and at once rise to the surface of the water , where they swim for about twenty-four hours .
They then sink to the bottom , where , after swimming about slowly for twelve to twenty-four hours more , they fix themselves and undergo metamorphosis .
The larval life thus lasts for thirty-six to forty-eight hours .
The oval larva ( figs. 1 and 2)* is divided into an anterior region composed of ciliated cells and a posterior region composed of non-ciliated granular cells .
The centre of the transparent larva is occupied by a conspicuous mass of yellowish-brown pigment .
The ciliated cells are slender and elongated , reaching from the pigment to the surface of the body .
Each cell bears a single flagellum , and the body of the cell is divided into an internal refractile portion and an external granular portion .
These two portions of the cell are so distinct in the living object that a superficial examination gives the impression of an internal layer of refractile cells covered by an external granular layer , but by more careful investigation it is easy to make out that these two apparent layers are merely parts of a single layer of cells .
The ciliated cells situated more posteriorly entirely lack the refractile inner portion , and appear granular throughout .
They are also slightly broader , and have more convex outer surfaces than the other ciliated cells , forming an equatorial zone of intermediate cells , not very distinct in the living object .
The * Figs. 1\#151 ; 6 represent the development of L. variabilis , x 1000 diameters .
All but 1 and 2 are semidiagrammatic and combined from different preparations .
Mr. E. A. Minchin .
Note on the Larva and the Fig. 1.\#151 ; Newly hatched larva .
region of the intermediate cells is generally marked by a slight constriction , giving a waist , as it were , to the larvae .
The granular cells are much fewer in number than the other elements , and are also of much larger size , but there are gradations in this respect , those placed at the posterior pole being much larger than those which border upon the intermediate cells .
During the free-swimming larval period , considerable changes take place in the relative proportions of the different parts of the larvae .
In the newly hatched larva ( fig. I ) the anterior ciliated region is relatively large , with a very broad granular border to the cells , and the posterior granular cells are few in number .
The number of granular cells now increases at the expense of the ciliated cells .
Some of the ciliated cells , by absorption of the internal retractile portion of the cell , become intermediate cells , and these , in their turn , absorb their flagellum , increase in size , and become granular cells .
This process goes on pari passu with a decrease in the granular border of the ciliated cells .
Tn the larva of about twenty-four hours ( fig. 2 ) , the granular cells form a mass equal to that of the ciliated cells , and the latter have now a very narrow granular border .
In Postlarval Development of Leucosolenia variabilis , 45 FiO .
2.\#151 ; Larva of second day .
short , granular cons are formed during larval life by modification of ciliated cells , the intermediate cells being a stage in this process .
Sections of larvae confirm and amplify the results obtained from a study of the living object ( fig. 8 ) .
The inner portion of each ciliated cell , which in life appeared refractile , is seen to contain a series of vacuole-like structures , containing granular masses suspended in their interior .
At the junction between the internal vacuolated and external granular portions of the cell is situated the opaque and deeply staining nucleus , which has a form like an onion , and is continued externally into the flagellum .
Often the inner side of the nucleus is indented by the vacuole beneath it , sometimes to such an extent that the nucleus has the form of a crescent in section .
The intermediate cells are very distinct in sections , and by some methods of preservation and staining , e.gr .
, osmic acid followed by picrocarmine , their protoplasm takes up the stain in a remarkable manner , so that larvae treated in this way appear to have a brightly coloured equatorial zone .
They lack the vacuolated inner portion , characteristic of the Mr. E. A. Minchin .
Note on the Larva and the Fig- .
3.\#151 ; Longitudinal section of larva .
ciliated cells proper , and their nuclei are larger and paler with one or two nucleoli .
The nucleus of the first intermediate cell frequently presents a curious appearance , being swollen out into a large vesicular structure containing two or three chromatin masses .
This condition is apparently in connexion both with a process of rearrangement of the chromatin and with the absorption of the vacuoles .
The granular cells are arranged in a single layer , and have large pale nuclei with nucleoli .
Often the nucleus of the cell nearest the intermediate cells has a pointed outer end , evidently indicating the former connexion with the flagellum .
Sections reveal a remarkable set of structures in connexion with the central pigment , which is now seen to have the form of a tube , open in front and behind , and enclosing a rounded , lens-like body , apparently a gelatinous mass filling the central cavity , the remnant , doubtless , of the segmentation cavity .
Behind these bodies are a number of cells with coarse granules and small , very opaque , deeply staining nuclei.* One of these cells is placed in the longitudinal axis * Of .
Dendy 's account of the larva of O-rantia laiyrinthica for similar cells , " On the Pseudogastrula stage in the Development of Calcareous Sponges , " ' Roy .
Soc. Victoria Proc. , ' 1889 , pp. 93\#151 ; 101 .
Postlarval Development of Leucosolenia variabilis , II .
sp. 47 of the larva , and its nucleus is usually , but not always , elongated in the same direction , so as to have a rod-like form .
The whole structure , with pigment , lens-like body , and central granular cells , gives strongly the impression of a primitive , light-perceiving organ .
The pigment itself is lodged in the inner ends of the ciliated and intermediate cells , and is , no doubt , the same pigment as that observed by Metschnikoff* and Schulzet in the inner ends of the ciliated cells in the larva of Sycandra raplianus .
As the intermediate cells pass into the condition of granular cells , they leave the pigment behind , so that the pigment is thickest in the region of the intermediate cells , at the sides of the lens-like body .
The larva is thus composed of four kinds of cells , which may be termed the ciliated , intermediate , granular , and central cells .
Since the intermediate cells are merely a transitional form between the ciliated cells proper and the granular cells , we have to reckon with three classes of cells only in the fully developed larva .
The fixation takes place by the anterior pole of the larva , and the granular cells grow round the ciliated cells .
The metamorphosis is complete in a few hours .
Sections of fixed stages of the first day of fixation ( fig. 4 ) show them to be composed of two very distinct cell Fig. 4.\#151 ; Section of larva shortly after fixation , the metamorphosis not quite complete .
layers : ( 1 ) a compact central mass of cells , easily recognisable , by their opaque , irregularly shaped nuclei and vacuolated cell protoplasm , as the former ciliated cells , surrounded by ( 2 ) a single layer of flattened epithelial cells , the former granular cells of the larva .
No trace is to be found of the central cells , which appear to be thrown out , together with the pigment , at the metamorphosis .
The inner mass is the future gastral layer of the sponge , the outer epithelium the future dermal layer .
' * " Sir Entwicklungsgeschichte der Kalkschwamme , " 'Zeitschr .
f. Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 24 , pp. 1\#151 ; 14 , Taf .
I. t " Ueber den Bau und Entwicklung von Sycandra ib. , vol. 25 , suppl .
, pp. 247\#151 ; 280 , Taf .
XVIII\#151 ; XXI .
48 Mr. E. A. Minchin .
Note on the Larva and the The two component layers very soon begin to undergo changes of form and structure , which are best described separately , since the two layers develop more or less independently of one another , and a given stage in the development of one layer is not always found combined with one and the same stage in the development of the other .
The dermal layer becomes divided ( fig. 5 ) into two kinds of cells : ( a ) cells which retain the original form and characters and remain on the surface , and ( b)cells with smaller nuclei , which sink below the outer epithelium and form a scattered layer between it and the _____ Fi\amp ; .
5.\#151 ; Section of stage about twenty-four hours after fixation .
The left side is represented as slightly in advance of the right side .
gastral cells .
The former ( a)secrete each a single monaxon spicule , which appears first on the inner side of the nucleus , but soon grows out and projects free from the surface .
The latter ( ) unite into groups and secrete the triradiate spicules .
The monaxons appear first , as in Sycandra raphanus , * and begin to appear about twenty-four hours after fixation , the triradiates about twelve hours later .
The dermal layer has thus become divided into two parts , which gradually assume the adult characters .
I have not observed the origin of the pores .
The gastral layer , at first a compact mass with no definite arrangement , soon begins to form a cavity ( fig. 5 ) .
The cells assume a radiate arrangement , and a split-like lumen appears in the centre .
Sometimes two or more such lacunar spaces arise , at first quite independent of one another , but later fusing to form a single gastral cavity , which soon becomes very large , causing the larva to increase considerably in size as a whole .
At first the cavity is surrounded on all sides by gastral cells , but as it increases in size a spot appears where gastral cells are wanting , and the cavity is limited only by dermal cells ( fig. 6 ) .
This is the region of the future osculum , and the dermal cells at this spot form the future oscular rim , where|collar * Metschnikoff , loc. cit. lostlarval Development of Leucosolenia variabilis , II .
sp. 49 \#165 ; ig .
6.\#151 ; Section of stage of about the fourth day of fixation .
cells are lacking .
The gastral cells are at first elongated , but later become shorter , and take on the characteristic appearance of collar cells .
I have not been able to make out whether all the gastral cells become collar cells , or whether some of them do not become the wandering cells of the adult , which seems very probable .
The osculum appears about the sixth day of fixation .
The Development of Leucosolenia cerebrum , L. reticulum , 0 .
S. , and L. coriacea , Mont .
These three species have larvae of the type with which we are familiar from the descriptions of Metschnikoff * and Schmidt , f namely , oval ciliated blastulae , in which an inner mass is formed by immigration of cells into the interior .
The process is most easily followed in the more transparent larva of L. reticulum ( fig. 7 ) , where the modification of ciliated cells into granular cells , and their subsequent immigration , takes place at the posterior pole .
When the larva is ready for fixation , a considerable quantity of granular cells has been formed , though the cavity is far from being obliterated .
In the opaque larvae of L. cerebrum and coriacea the process is more * " Spongiologische Studien , " ' Zeitschr .
f. Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 32 , p. 362 , Taf .
XXIII .
t " Das Larvenstadium von Ascetta clathrus und Ascetta primordialisf ' Arch. f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' vol. 14 , pp. 249\#151 ; 263 , Taf .
XY , XYI .
VOL. LX .
E Mr. E. A. Minchin .
Note on the Larva and the Fig. 7.\#151 ; Optical section of larva of L. reticulum , first day , x 500 .
difficult to follow , but in botb immigration appears to take place from any point on the surface .
In L. cerebrum and L. reticulum the larva swims for about twenty-four hours at the surface , and as long at the bottom , and fixes on the third day .
L. coriacea , on the other hand , is remarkable for its abbreviated larval period as compared with the two Mediterranean species , since the larva fixes in a few hours , a fact doubtless in connexion with its life between tide marks , where the violent currents to which it is exposed renders a very sheltered , and therefore limited , habitat necessary for so delicate an organism .
After fixation , the larva undergoes changes whereby the ciliated cells become surrounded by the formerly internal granular cells , so that the ciliated external layer of the larva represents the gastral layer of the adult , while the inner mass becomes the dermal layer ; the reverse of what was supposed by Metschnikoff and Schmidt ( loc. cit. ) to take place .
In L. cerebrum I was able to observe the first appearance of the spicules .
As in variabilis , the complete metamorphosis results in a stage in which the gastral cells form a compact internal mass , surPostlarval Development of Leucosolenia variabilis , sp. 51 rounded by a single layer of dermal cells .
Some of the cells of the dermal epithelium then form themselves into groups , usually of three cells , and each cell of such a group secretes the ray of a spicule .
The first spicules are usually triradiate , but quite irregular in form , and at their first appearance they are quite superficial , their secreting cells forming part of the general epithelium , but later they become covered by the remaining epithelium , so that the dermal layer becomes divided into an internal connective tissue layer and an external flat epithelium .
The process is essentially similar to that occurring in variabilis , except that in the latter the cells of the flat epithelium secrete each a monaxon spicule , which in cerebrum is not the case .
General Considerations .
The larva of L. variabilis is of interest as affording a transition from larves such as that of L. reticu , to the amphiblastula larva of the Sycons .
The larva of reticulum ( fig. 7 ) is composed of ( 1 ) ciliated cells , comparable to those of the amphiblastula , of which some ( 2 ) at the hinder pole are undergoing modification , and may be compared with the intermediate cells , and of ( 3 ) internal granular cells comparable to the posterior granular cells of the amphiblastula .
To .
obtain a larva like that of variabilis from the type represented by reticulum , we must suppose the large cavity of the latter reduced to the extent to which this has occurred in the former .
Then the granular cells which are formed at the posterior pole must remain where they are , since the cavity is too small to contain them , and , as more ciliated cells are continually being modified around them , we get a larva with the three kinds of cells arranged as in variabilis .
The central cells of variabilis\#151 ; on the origin of which I have no observations to bring forward\#151 ; are probably to be regarded as constituting a larval organ , a special adaptation of no importance for the postlarval development .
The development of both reticulum and variabilis points to an early stage in which the larva is composed entirely of similar and equivalent ciliated cells .
I have not seen such a stage in any species , and doubt if it actually occurs in nature ; it is more probable that the process of cell differentiation begins before the larva is hatched in all cases .
In the absence of segmentation stages , it is impossible to decide this question ; nevertheless , the facts seem to me to indicate , as the primitive larva in ascon phylogeny , a blastula composed of indifferent ciliated cells , in which a second type of cells ( the future dermal layer ) is formed by modification of certain of the cells .
The collarcell layer of the adult is derived directly from the primitive ciliated cells of the blastula .
Comparing , now , the larva of variabilis with that of Sycon 52 On the Larva and Development of Leucosolenia variabilis .
as described by Schulze , it is obvious that the development is essen tially similar in both , the chief difference being with regard to the periods at which the various events take place .
In both the granular cells increase greatly in number , but in this takes place while the larva is still in the maternal tissues , as is obvious from Schulze 's figures , * and the larva is hatched in a condition similar to that of variabilis when about to fix .
In variabilis the granular cells do not surround the ciliated cells until after fixation ; in a , nus this process is begun while the larva is still swimming , and the granular cells may even give rise to spicules ( monaxons ) during the free swimming period ( Metschnikoff , loc. It is obvious that in Sycon we have before us a hastening and shortening of the development , and , allowing for these embryological adaptations , we are able to understand how , from a larva such as that of reticulum , there has ansep a type of development apparently so different as that of the Sycon amphiblastula .
The most important event in the post-larval development is the differentiation of the dermal layer into the outer epithelium and the inner connective tissue layer .
This might seem at first sight to be a process comparable to the formation of a new layer , a mesoderm ; so that from this period onwards the sponge would be a three-layered organism .
I do not , however , take this view , for the following reason .
The immigration of cells from the epithelium to form the layer of triradiates is not an event , like the formation of a germ layer , which takes places once and for all in the life cycle of an individual , but it goes on whenever new triradiates are formed .
In adult ascons I have found that the triradiates and the basal rays of the quadri'radiates arise from cells of the outer epithelium which migrate inwards and arrange themselves into groups to form spicules , each ray being secreted by one cell or by cells derived from the division of a single cell .
In the adult also the nuclei of the spicule secreting cells diminish in size after quitting the epithelium .
Hence in the development of the sponge also , I regard this process as one not of blasto-genetic , but of histogenetic significance .
The fact that in variabilis the epithelial cells also secrete spicules is to my mind a decisive proof of the unity of the dermal layer .
* ' Zeitschr.f.Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 25 , suppl .
, Taf .
XX and fig. 3 , Taf .
XIX .
Schulze refers this increase in the number of the granular cells to their multiplication by cell-division , but as the granular cells do not at the same time decrease in size , it seems more probable that their increase is due , as in variabilis , to their numbers being recruited from the 6lear ( ciliated ) cells .
" 1 Schulze has also figured very clearly the relation of the dermal cells to the monaxon spicules , one spicule to each cell , in the young fixed stages of raphanus ( 'Zeitschr .
f. Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 81 , pi .
XIX , figs. 10 , 11 ) , although he states in the text that the spicules arise in the hyaline substance between the two layers .

