Additional Observations on the optical Properties and Structureof heated Glass and unannealed glass Drops .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Edin .
and F.S.A. Edin .
In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read November 10 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 1 .
] IN this continuation of the author 's remarks on Rupert 's drops , he observes , that when they are made of colourless glass , and are held before a sheet of white paper , even the unbroken drops exhibit some appearances which he considers as marks of a crystalline texture ; and when they are broken in such a manner that the parts are retained in their relative situation , the structure shows a cleavage in the direction of lines diverging from the apex , or rather in the form of conical layers , having a common axis , with their apex towards the blunt end of the drop .
Since the surface of these drops is cooled suddenly by plunging into water , and fixed before the central parts are contracted , the author conceived that their specific gravity might be less than that of annealed drops ; and indeed a difference was found upon trial , amounting to -Ith part in the aggregate bulk of its external dimensions ; but it appeared , on examination , that the contraction of the glass had taken place from within outwards , so as to leave cavities in the interior sufficient to account for the difference of weight , without supposing any intrinsic difference of density in the glass itself .
Dr. Brewster further observed , that by heating a drop to redness , and allowing it to cool gradually , these cavities disappeared entirely , so as to prove that they did not arise from included air , but merely from the internal contraction of the glass .
Since considerable difficulty occurs in preserving unannealed drops of flint glass , the author has paid attention to the circumstances most favourable to their preservation , and recommends removing them from the water in which they have been plunged , as soon as the redness in the centre of the drop ceases to be visible .
Since the smallest portion of any polarizing crystal polarizes or depolarizes light according to its position , the author expected to find the same property in the fragments of a broken drop , but upon trial they did not appear to possess this property .
Of the many important conclusions to which the author thinks that these experiments are calculated to conduct us , there is one which he considers too palpable to be passed over , namely , that when the particles of glass are separated to a certain distance by the expansive agency of heat , they assume a crystalline arrangement , which would not be discovered but by fixing them in this state by sudden cooling ; since the gradual approximation of the particles , by slow cooling , entirely destroys the crystalline structure thus produced .
In a note the author remarks , that on more than one authority steel is said to be less dense after being hardened by quenching than before , which he ascribes , as in glass , to the sudden induration having commenced at the surface .
And he takes occasion to suggest the possibility , that under these circumstances moderate changes of temperature may not occasion any degree of expansion , and that we may obtain , within certain limits , a substance of invariable length that may be useful for pendulums .

