Xi Further Eei ments on thespeen.:EverardHIme , Esq. F. R. S. Read February 25 , 1808i THE results of the experiments already brought forward having establishedb the fact that fluids received into the stomach , when the pylorus is closed , pass through the spleen into the circulation of the blood ; it became an:object to determine , by experiment , whether this takes place when the paarsare in a natural state. .
The ass appeared , on many accounts , the best subject for this purpose , and as it is made use of to teach the veterinary pupils the anatomy of that tribe of animals , I applied to the Professor for permission to make my experiments in the theatre of the college , This was granted me in ' the most obliging manner ; the subjects were also supplied by the College , and Mr. SEWELL , the assistant Professor , gave me his personal aid with a degree of zeal and ability I have rarely met with , and have much pleasure in acknowledging .
, In making the following experiments , I had the assistance of Mr. SEWELL , Mr. BRODIE , Mr. WILLIAM BRAND , and Mr. CLIFT. .
Experiment i1 .
An , ass , which had been kept twenty-four hours without hay , to prevent the liquor that was to be poured .
into its stomach from .
being soaked up and retained there , on .
the evening 'of the::d of 'fDeember , i 8o , had a idirelnch giv'en it , : consisting:of half a pint of the spirituous tincture of rhu : barb , dilduted in half a ` pint 'of water .
-On the : morning of th 4th , this was:repeated ateight:ocloc , and again at twelve .
At two o'Clok : the animal was pithed , so as to : destroy its sensibility , and tbefore .
the circulation was : entirely:stopped , six ounces of blood were taken from the splenic vein nta : graduatedglass measure , m and a ; :similar q-uantity was : ta-ke from the left auricle of the heart , into a vessel of the sam:1e kind : thaese were ; allowed-t : coagulate:and separate tleir serum .
The spleen was large and turgid ; upon making:section:sof it , the cells'ere found to be v:'ry n ; umerous:and toWrCds th great end .
and near the edge , they were particullaly ditict to:the naked eye .
: The cut surface had a stronl smell of rhubarb , and when it was applied owhite pajper : wetted w : the alkaline , test , an orange tinge : : was produced .
This ' Was strongly contrasted by a sta in mde i the , same ima mer -wi:t a section of the liver , which had no such tinge , nor did the liver give the slightest smell of rhubarb .
Infusions were made of the spleen and liver under similar circumstances ; these were strained off into separate::glassea , and tested by the alkali .
The urine was tested:itn tetsame way .
The serum , from the different portions : of blood , was also poured off into separate glass vessels ; , to whih the : tst was added .
In nineteen hours after the blomod had been t ' : ken from the veins , they were all compared together .
The`rine had so deep a tinge , that it nearly resembled the:-:pure cti re of rhubarb in appearance ; the others had a titge , althoug in very different degrees ; the quantity of rhubarb they conained was estimated.by adding tincture ofirhbarb to , alkalinewater so as to produce corresponding tints .
-The infusion.f spleen had a tinA-equ ali to tsi drops of tinctre of rhubarb in two ounces of alkaline:water : .
the serum of the splenic vrein to fifteen drops , ::the serum.from the left auricle of the heart , to : threeq dops .
The infusion of the liver gave no orange tinge ; , butadlinoit been obscured : by the red particles nof theA:loo4itmuit.usthave.been equal topthat-of the ; serulmotfromnh the.au-ricle .
he connecting membrane between the stomach-and spleen was attentively examined , very few absorbent vessels wereseen:and thesei w re .
not in a turgid state , they were traced ato-ihecbain of glands situated near the edge of the -splten which , irecei.e the-absorbents of the stomach , but none were .
d ; etectedpassing bay ( ond the glands , nor did the glands adtmit quiksilvt : htoa through them towards the spleen .
s:iExp The)frmier experiment was repeated upon another ass , With similiarresults , but less strongly marked ; the cause fths difference was explained by the abdominal viscera being in an inflamed state .
iThe rinie was less .
impregnated with rhubarb , the infusion of the speen had a -lighter tinge , and the serum of the splenic vein had it in a still less degree ; but evidently exceeding that of , the aserum from the vena cava inferior opened just below the : diaphragm , which was substituted for the left auricle of the i eart , ^ ith a.:view to vary the experiment .
-.Ex , .
: Thsame:eexperiment was made on a third ass with similar results .
E , x ~:4 ; An ass thathaad been kept four days without water , ndt ; wo wit !
hout solid ifo od , on thef evenin g , x ofthe8th of J anuar , 88 , Stf had ; :ball given it contaeinntegih aan ounce of powdered rhubarb^on thet 9th , at seven o'clock in the mornii : , t-hi .
Wasrtepeated ; .:athird was given at nine o'clock , and a fourth at twelve .
At two o'clock the ass was pithed , and ur luncesi of bloodo were taken from the splenia:ein , and itwe sameT quantity from the left:auricle of the heart .
The ; sp leen -was ifound : con tottratied alte s ho ose in theformer experiinents ; when , cut into the:cells.cwere small , and it required a magnifying glass !
to .
see ithem.istinctly .
The substance : wasc compact , and:bore : a.nerresieblantce to a portion of liver ; so that in this : ; state:sthe -blood : vessels , particlarly:the veins , must have been , much contrtedd in their diameters .
T : ' IThe stomach.contained about two ounce andahalf fa gelatinous substance mi xed with : -rhubarb , the smalintestines were nearly empty , but t hecGecui and olon otlaiined s4everal quarts of water , in which the rhubarb was more ed ent both .
to the e Sight and smell , :than in ; the stomach.:The absorbent glands upon the edge of thei coon0 were ranged -intwo rows , one on : each sidelof the:greatvein , r , and were ex ceedi^gly -Inumerous In the spa.e betiw thaeserow s of : glands , in some places tet trent unks of.absoirbet wessels could be readily counted , of a very large size .
The urine was impregnated with rhubarbs soras to^icquire an orange tinge from the addition of the test ; -ibutheinfson of the spleen , and the serum of the diffbrent portinsof blod , did not contain it in sufficient quantity tob have.thei.:ecolour heightened by alkali .
Exp. 5The last experimet was epeated uon aoer ass .
Two ounces of blood were taken from the splenic vein , _S two from hthe large vein of the colon , and:two from the ife -rior vena camirin the lower partof the loins .
^The spleen had the same appearance in the-r last xperi-tment .
- ; .iThe stomach contained nearly -a pint oif moderately solid contents , in which the rhubarb was very evident .
The small intesese were nearly empty ; butthe : cacum and beginning 6of the colon contined several quarts of liquid , strongly impregnated ith rhubarb.:he iabsobent-gland s and -vessels had the same appearance as in , the former experiment .
The urine when tested was found impregnated with rhubarb .
'Thie ?
portions of serum of the blood taken from these different veins , when tested-by the alkali , appeared to be very muchlalike ; :at least that from the splenic vein was not more taiged th anthe others .
Exp. 6 .
Having been .
infortned by Mr. SEWELL , that spirituoais -liquors given in large quantities to horses , produce inflammation of the brain , and sometimes death , and this information havingeen insome measure confirmed by an ass iana wweakly state , that had taken half a pint of the spirituous tincture of rhubarb in the evening , dying in the night , I thought it rightto : make a comparative experiment with the infusion of rhubarb , to determine whether the result would be the sam as with the tincture.:February 9g , 808 .
An ass had a pint of infusion of rhubarb given to it in the evening ; the same dose was repeated at six o'clck in the morning of the:xoth ; i and again at nine o'clock , and at twelvei .
At two o'clock the animal was pithed , and two MDG .
CcCVIIO .
, T ous f ; of 'loodi we e taken from ; the e speni er two rom the vein-of the -colo , ; iand two fr te ifer vena camva 'm the l : were .
part of t -he tlins .
The spleen was , found:turid , and large ; whein the ; -it : surface was rubbed on white paper , the orange tint was very evident without anyi.test appied0 to ; it particplarly so , when compared with a similar stainsmade by a section of the liver , in which there was no such tinge .
In the stomach and : dodenum , the prhubasrb , :was fundin large quantities ; but none was met ; , with in the c , mcu .
The:urine wasimpregnated withihubarb , the orangp 4tint upon the application of theualkali : being veryi , tinct At the end of twenty hours , the serum of the splenic vein had a tinge equal to four dropsof the tincture of rhubarb in two ounces of alkaline water ; : that of the vein of the colon andv-ena^ cava was lessdistinct The effects of the infusion of rhubarb on th:splie-e Ah , serum of the blood:and the urine corespond exactly with that of the tincture in the , former experiments , but was in a less degree of intensity .
'-::In the:course of ; , these x..rl,. .
, a In3the acourse of : these -experiments , afnattemp ws made to ascertain whether the blood in the splenic vein hasa6greater proportioni of serum than in the other -einst of the body , and the general results were in favour of such an opinion ; but it will appear , foro what follows , that the quantity of serum separated in twenty-four hours , is by n teanns |a ju j. citrion of the proportion , which the blood contains .
Experiment i. Three ounces of blood from the arm.- , qa healthy person were received into a graduated jglassyessel , previously cooled to the temperature of $32 three more into Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~..JI ; s ... .,. .
: -r\ a second glass of the temperature .
of 50 ?
, and three into a third at 70o .
The three glasses were brought into a room , the temperature of which varied from 40o ?
to 5o ? .
At the end of nineteen hours , the serum was found in the following quantities .
In the glass at32 9 drams .
5 ?
0 I IL 70 ? ?
10 The blood did not flowso freely into the glass , at the highest temperature , as into the other two .
Exp. 2 ' .
This experiment was repeated , and the serum examined at the end of forty-three hours .
In the glass atg$ ?
' 12 drams .
500 12 70o 13 Exp. 3 .
It was repeated , and the serum examined at the end of'67 hours .
In the glass at 32 1X drams .
50* 11 ? ?
70 ? ?
12 ' Ep. 4 .
: Itwas repeated , and the serum measured at the end of ninety hours .
In the glass at 32 11 i drams .
50 ?
is 70 ' i0The lod did not flow so readily into the glass -at the highest temperature as into the other two .
From these experiments , it appears that the serum separates in larger quantity , when the blood is received into a vessel at the temperature of 70 degrees , than at So ?
or 32 ?
: this , howTz 139 ever , is prevented from taking place by the blood not flowing readily from the vein .
From the experiments on the spleen contained in this , and the foregoing Paper , the following facts appear to have been ascertained .
That the spleen is met with in two very different states , one which may be termed the distended , the other the contracted , and that in the one its size is double what it is in the other .
In the distended state there is a distinct appearance of cells containing a limpid fluid , distinguishable by the naked eye ; in the contracted , these only become distinct when seen through a magnifying glass .
The distended state takes place when the stomach has received unusual quantities of liquids before the animal 's death ; and the contracted state , when the animal has been kept several days without any drink before the spleen is examined .
That the trunk of the splenic vein ( of the hog ) is more than five times the size of the trunk of the splenic artery .
That whenl the pylorus is secured , coloured liquids pass from the cardiac portion of the stomach into the circulation of the blood , and go off by the urine ; and while this is going on , the spleen is in its most distended state , and the colouring matter is found in its juices , although it is not to be detected in those of the liver .
The colouring matter cannot therefire be conveyed to the spleen through the conmmon absorbents of the stomach , which lead to the thoracic duct .
That when the pylorus is open , the colouring matter under the circumstances abovementioned is equally detected in the spleen .
That when the spleenis in this state , the blood in the splenic vein has its serum more strongly impregnated with the colouring matter , than that of the blood in the other veins of the body ; and when the stomach is kept wiithoit liquids , al though colouring imatter is carried into the system from the intestinal can ' by the ordinary channels , no particilar'evidence of it is met with in the spleen or its veins That the cecum and the portio t lon otecoloimmediately beyond it , is found ( in the ass ) to be at all times filled with liquids , even when none:has been received into the stomach ' for several days , and there is a greater'number of absorbent vessels for carrying liquids from the colon into the thoracic duct , than from any other part of the body .
The colon is therefore a reservoir , from which the blood vessels are occasionally supplied with liquids .
Mr. SEWELL informs me , that the same observation applies in a still greater degree to the horse .
That coloured liquids taken into the human stomach , under some circumstances , begin to pass off by urine in seventeen minutes , continue to do so for some hours , and then disappear ; they are again met with in the urine , after the colouring matter is known to have arrived at the great intestines , by its passing off by the bowels .
From the above facts , the following conclusions may be drawn .
That the liquids received into the stomach beyond what are employed for digestion , are not wholly carried out of it by the common absorbents of the stomach , or the canal of the intestines , but are partly conveyed through the medium of the spleen into the circulation of the liver .
The vessels which communicate betwceen the stomach and1 141 the spleen have not been discovered ; but if it is proved that the colouring matter of the contents of the stomach , is met with in greater quantity in the spleen and in the vein which goes from that organ to the liver , than in the other veins of the body , there appears to be no other mode in which it can arrive there , but by means of such vessels ; and the two different states of the spleen , which correspond with the quantities of liquids that pass from the stomach , are strongly in favour of the existence of sucha channel .
-^ ' " This communication between the cardiac portion of the stomach , and the spleen , will explain the circumstance of those who are in the habit of drinking spirituous liquors having the spleen:and liver so frequently diseased , and the diseases of both organs being of the same kind .
This organ is not essential to life , its office being of a secondary kind ; but when it is materially diseased , or entirely removed , digestion must be disturbed .
The extent to which this takes place , cannot be accurately known from experiments on quadrupeds , and the instances in which the human spleen has been removed have not been attended to with sufficient accuracy to afford an explanation of the effects that were produced on the stomach .
From the Press of W. BULMER &amp; Co. Cleveland-RIow , St , James 's .

