Mechanical Temperature Effects in Rarefied Gases .
285 For cordite Mark I this time is given by T = 36 D/ P if the diameter I ) is measured in centimetres and the maximum pressure P in atmospheres , or T = 0'61)/ P if the units are inches and tons per square inch .
Throughout the above investigation the cooling effect of the walls of the containing vessel during the combustion has been taken as small enough to he neglected .
Experiments ivith Vacuum Gold-leaf Electroscopes on the Mechanical Temperature Effects in Rarefied Gases .
By J. T. Bottomley , M.A. , LL. D. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , and F. A. King .
( Received February 1 , \#151 ; Read March 7 , 1907 .
) The following is intended to be a preliminary notice of some striking mechanical effects which we have observed in the gold leaves of vacuum electroscopes , and which , at first sight , might be taken to simulate electrification of bodies by light and radiant heat .
Experiment 1.\#151 ; The first indications which presented themselves to us , of the existence of the peculiar effects which we are about to describe , were obtained while we were experimenting with a " radium clock , " constructed much as described by the Hon. R. Strutt , F.R.S.* We have set up this apparatus for the purpose of carrying out secular observations , and in order to find , if possible , whether the activity of the radium seems to diminish with time .
The radium clock , as is well known , is practically a gold-leaf electroscope , contained in an outer vessel highly exhausted , in which a small glass tube containing some radium , and with its outer surface smeared with an aqueous solution of phosphoric anhydride , is connected metallically to the gold leaves .
Two metallic plates , with connections passing to the outside through the glass cover of the electroscope , are placed on the two sides of the gold leaves ; and the leaves are long enough to touch these plates when their divergence reaches a certain amount .
As the / 3-rays of the radium emanation escape , the a-rays electrify the gold leaves , which then diverge ; and , diverging , they come in contact with the side plates .
They are then discharged , and fall together again ; but again become electrified as before .
* Strutt , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' November , 1903 ; Rutherford 's 'Radio-activity , ' 2nd edition , p. 122 .
286 Dr. Bottomley and Mr. King .
Experiments on [ Feb. 1 , \#151 ; Quart* rod Braes cap nimiiiimtimilDIuS Radium salt Aluminium wii Gold leaves lllltt llIT To charcoal bulb To Sprengel pumps General View of " Radium Clock " Apparatus and Section of the " Clock .
" A periodic action thus goes on , the gold leaves alternately diverging and collapsing .
In the " clock " which we have constructed , and with a vacuum of 1/ 20 M , * the period of the gold leaves is about minutes .
While observing the radium clock , and endeavouring to improve the vacuum of the apparatus , a Bunsen burner which was being used was placed in rather close proximity to the clock .
It had a long , powerful , flame , and it was observed , after a short time , that the gold leaves of the clock were apparently repelled by the flame .
It is impossible to make the gold leaves so symmetrical that they shall both strike on their respective fixed side plates at the same instant .
One must strike first , and then both are discharged .
In our case , that which we will call the " left hand " leaf , looking at the apparatus from what we will call the " front/ ' had been striking first .
The Bunsen burner was , by chance , standing on the " left .
" It was noticed that the leaves did not * M denotes one-millionth of standard atmospheric pressure .
1907 .
] Mechanical Temperature Effects in Rarefied Gases .
287 hang down symmetrically , as shown in fig. 1 , but were repelled and hung as shown in fig. 2 ; and as their divergence increased the " right hand " leaf was the first to strike on its side plate , and it was found at the same time that the period of the clock was greatly increased .
-\gt ; Radium tube .
\lt ; fig.2 .
Experiment 2.\#151 ; A common soldering bolt was next heated , sometimes to red heat , or almost to white heat , and later on to temperatures far below red heat but higher than that of the surrounding atmosphere , and it was found that , when this was brought near , the leaves of the radium clock behaved much as they did in the presence of the flame .
The same effects were obtained when a spirit flame , or a candle flame , was used instead of a Bunsen burner .
Experiment 3.\#151 ; Even the heat of the hand was found to be quite sufficient to cause repulsion of the gold leaves of the clock .
By bringing up the warm hand close to the outside cover of the clock , the leaves could be driven slowly , first in one direction and then in the other , and they could in this way be prevented from striking on the side plates ; thus the period of the clock could be greatly augmented .
In one case which we have noted , the striking on the side plates was delayed , by alternately placing the hand to the right and to the left of the gold leaves , to such an extent , as to make an interval of 6^ minutes , the normal period of charge and discharge , at the time , being 3 minutes 4 seconds .
Experiment 4.\#151 ; To try the effect of cold , a test tube was filled with water , and with the help of a vessel filled with liquid air , the water was frozen , 288 Dr. Bottomley and Mr. King .
Experiments on [ Feb. 1 , first , and was then cooled down nearly to the temperature of the liquid air .
We had thus a bar of solid matter , having a great capacity for cold , and chilled to a very low temperature ; and this was brought near to the clock , just as had been done with the flame , and with the bar of heated copper .
When the bar of chilled ice was brought near to the leaves they were markedly attracted ; and , in fact , the action of the chilled body appeared to be exactly the inverse of what we had observed in the case of the heated bar of metal .
Experiment 5.\#151 ; When the clock was covered entirely with a cage made of fine brass gauze , and the gauze cage connected to a neighbouring gas pipe , the peculiar attraction and repulsion of the gold leaves was still observed , with but little diminution in intensity , when hot and cold bodies were presented , as described above .
The leaves , however , under these circumstances , were unaffected when electrified rods of glass and sealing wax were brought , being protected by the presence of the wire gauze cover , as was shown by Faraday , in his Experimental Eesearches .
A great variety of experiments were also tried , but need not be described in detail here , on the effect of screens of metal , glass , mica , cardboard , paper , etc. , also of liquids contained in a parallel sided cell and , lastly , of vacuum ; the vacuum between the walls of a Dewar vessel for holding liquid air being used for this purpose .
To ascertain how far the phenomena observed might be attributed to heating and cooling effect , the region of air surrounding the radium clock was carefully explored with the help of a very sensitive thermo-electric junction .
The result of this experimenting was to show that thermal radiations , which were almost too slight to be detected with the thermojunction , could produce very marked effects in causing disturbance of the gold leaves .
It is to be expected that the radiometric forces investigated by Sir W. Crookes would be much in evidence in this arrangement , owing to the small mass and large surface of the leaves , and their contiguity .
In fig. 2 the colder leaf is repelled from the warmer one , but the latter suffers reaction on both sides from the molecules of the gas , which it accelerates , and so remains in position .
The long duration of the effects is a striking feature .
It was now determined to construct a special gold-leaf electroscope for the purpose of investigating the phenomena which these preliminary experiments pointed to ; and , after several small electroscopes had been made , a convenient instrument was obtained , which may be described as 1907 .
] Mechanical Temperature Effects in Rarefied Gases .
289 follows , and of which fig. 3 is a drawing .
The essentials aimed at are : ( 1 ) convenient dimensions ; ( 2 ) perfect dryness of the interior ; ( 3 ) high exhaustion .
The electroscope is contained in an enclosure , made from a piece of glass tubing 1| inches in diameter , drawn out at both ends to form tubes e , e ' , fig. 3 .
A piece of thermometer tubing t is sealed on to the neck e , To " Earth " Fig. 3 .
and the aluminium wire m , n , supporting the gold leaves , passes down the centre , and is held in position by the tube t , the joint between the glass and aluminium wire being made vacuum-tight by filling the cup c with " siegelwachs .
" VOL. LXXIX.\#151 ; A. X 290 Dr. Bottomley and Mr. King .
Experiments on [ Feb. 1 , Two pieces of lead foil a , a , about 1\#163 ; inches wide , are cemented on to the outside of the glass enclosure opposite the faces of the gold leaves , and are joined together by strips of lead foil x , which completely encircle the glass enclosure .
A copper wire w is fastened over the strip of lead foil to allow a connection to the metallic coating to be easily made .
The tube e is connected to a series of drying tubes , and to a pair of five-fall Sprengel pumps , to maintain a high degree of exhaustion in the enclosure .
With the instrument thus described , the following experiments were carried out , both while the electroscope was still connected to the pumps and after it was sealed off:\#151 ; Experiment 6.\#151 ; A copper wire w was passed round the outside of the electroscope so as to connect together the two outside metallic coatings a , a. A fine wire v was then attached to this surrounding wire , and was connected to the aluminium wire m , from which the gold leaves are hung .
Thus the gold leaves are put metallic connection with the outside coating of the electroscope .
A wire was also taken from the surrounding bands of lead foil x , y to the gas pipes , etc. , and thus all question was avoided as to the condition , as to insulation , of the gold leaves and the surrounding coatings , all the parts being put in metallic connection with each other , with the earth , and with the general surroundings .
It is to be remembered also , in this connection , that the outside of the glass enclosure of the electroscope is not an insulator ; it was not dried , nor specially cleaned , and no part of it could be charged to the smallest degree by means of rubbed glass or rubbed sealing wax .
To test this , a second independent electroscope was charged , and when the knob was brought into contact with any part of the glass of the first , it was instantly discharged , and this was the case even when all the wires , described in the last paragraph , were cleared away .
With the arrangements which have just been described , it will readily be understood that if a rod of glass be rubbed with silk ( vitreously electrified ) , or a rod of sealing wax with flannel ( resinously electrified ) , and brought near to the electroscope , no effect is produced .
The gold leaves , being connected to the outside of the cover and to " earth , " and being protected by a conducting envelope , cannot be electrified in the ordinary way .
This was verified by experiment .
Experiment 7.\#151 ; In these circumstances , when the flame of a spirit lamp , or a light of any description , was suddenly brought up towards the electroscope , the leaves were instantly seen to diverge , and when the flame was withdrawn suddenly the leaves fell together again , but they did not 1907 .
] Mechanical Temperature Effects in Rarejied Gases .
291 respond instantly , as in the case of the divergence .
In this experiment the flame is not brought into contact with the glass ; the effect is produced at a distance of many centimetres from it .
The glass is not heated , or quite infinitesimally .
Experiment 8.\#151 ; When the flame is suddenly brought up and then withdrawn , and this operation performed three or four times in succession , taking care never to heat the glass to the slightest degree , the gold leaves obtain a large permanent repulsion for each other , and stand permanently apart .
The leaves could even be torn from their support by operating thus with the spirit flame , if care was not exercised to avoid such violent action .
By suitably manipulating the spirit flame , the gold leaves can be deflected in very curious ways .
The flame being suddenly pushed up towards them , sometimes from one direction , sometimes from another , the leaves can be gradually contorted into a sort of crumpled form .
They can both be driven in the same direction relatively to the centre ; and they remain in this contorted condition , only slowly resuming their natural state .
It is difficult to make a drawing to illustrate the crooked forms into which the leaves are sometimes twisted , but an attempt to do this is made in figs. 4 and 5 .
This twisting makes it evident that the leaves are subjected to AV Iff Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .
considerable local forces , with rapid variations , as to direction and amount , fi om point to point within the enclosure .
Putting the hand to the aluminium x 2 292 Dr. Bottomley and Mr. King .
Experiments on [ Feb. 1 , wire m , n , or catching hold of it between the fingers , makes no difference to the gold leaves ; nor does the putting of a spirit flame ( Gilbert 's and Faraday 's method of discharging electrification ) in contact with the outside coil at the end of the aluminium wire m , n have any effect .
The deflection remains unaltered , and the leaves are not relieved of their charge , as would be the case with an ordinary charged electroscope .
Experiment 9.\#151 ; To find whether the gold leaves were affected from a distance by a source of light , a Nernst lamp was set up about 6 metres distant from the electroscope , and the image of the filament was projected upon the glass enclosure .
As soon as the light from the Nernst lamp fell upon the gold leaves , they instantly diverged , although not to the extent of the divergence obtained in previous experiments , when the lower ends of the leaves were often 2 or more centimetres apart .
When an opaque screen was interposed between the source of light and the electroscope the leaves quickly collapsed .
If the screen was passed backwards and forwards across the path of the rays , the leaves alternately diverged and fell together again .
Even the movements of the string of a pendulum swinging across the beam of light could be followed , by observing the slight kicks of the leaves , which wore produced when the light was momentarily cut off by the string .
Screens of glass , or other transparent substances , have practically no effect in cutting off the radiations which affect the gold leaves .
The leaves responded to the movements of a shutter in front of the lamp when the light was made to pass through a plate glass door , just as if the door were not there .
Screens of various materials were interposed between the electroscope and the Nernst lamp .
When the light was transmitted through coloured glasses the divergence of the leaves was diminished , ruby glass almost halving the deflection .
The effective radiation appears to pass with the greatest freedom through several sheets of white , or coloured paper , so long as the screen is at all transparent to light .
A parallel-sided plate of ice was made , by sawing a slice off a large block of ice and then rubbing its surfaces down on a sheet of plate glass , until they were quite parallel and true .
The sheet of ice allowed the peculiar radiations which affect the gold leaves to pass through , with scarcely any perceptible diminution in intensity .
No effect , however , could be detected when the Nernst lamp was replaced by a spirit flame , the sheet of ice still being present , although the light from a candle or match would produce the effects observed with the Nernst lamp .
This was also found to be the case when another vacuum electroscope was completely immersed in a glass vessel of alum solution , and the Nernst lamp , and the various flames , brought near to the gold leaves .
The Nernst 1907 .
] Mechanical Temperature Effects in Rarefied Gases .
293 lamp , * and the flames of a candle or match , produce their full effect ; but the influence of the spirit flame , as far as can be detected by visual observation of the gold leaves , is completely stopped .
Screens of lead , copper , zinc , etc. , appear to stop , or at any rate to reduce greatly , the radiations which affect the gold leaves .
Some curious observations , however , which may modify this last statement , were made when the radium clock was the subject of experiment .
It was found that metal screens allowed radiations to pass through , which repelled the gold leaves of the radium clock , and thus caused its period of charge and discharge to be lengthened .
Tables showing this numerically will be given in a future communication .
Experiment 10.\#151 ; It was found that divergence of the leaves only took place when the light was shining directly upon them , and that no effect was perceptible when the light was projected through the glass envelope , without illuminating the gold leaves .
In testing this , the image of an incandescent electric lamp was focussed by means of a lens first upon the gold leaves and then upon the glass cover , the gold leaves being avoided .
The result mentioned above was obtained , but it was also found that if only one leaf was illuminated the opposite leaf was repelled away from the illuminated one , which remained hanging vertically , as shown in fig. 6 .
If the spot of light was so arranged that it illuminated a little patch in the centre of one of the gold leaves , the opposite leaf took the form as shown in fig. 7 , very different from any that could be due to electrification .
The gold leaves of the vacuum electroscope show a distinct deflection when bright daylight falls upon them , and a large divergence is obtained if the gold leaves are illuminated by direct sunlight .
A black card interposed , so as to cut off the light , causes the leaves to collapse at once ; but they again attain their maximum deflection the instant the card is removed .
Turning the electroscope round its own vertical axis , so that the rays of light , from the sun or any other source , may fall on the gold leaves at different angles , increases or diminishes the amount of the repulsion of the leaves .
Experiment 11.\#151 ; To put in evidence further the difference between these phenomena and such as could arise from electrification of the vacuum electroscope , the following arrangements were made , of which fig. 8 is a diagram .
The gold leaves and metallic coating of the vacuum electroscope A were connected up to the corresponding gold leaves and metal plates of an * Care must be taken when the Nernst lamp is used as a source of light in these experiments .
The metallic holder of the lamp is frequently electrified , and it ought to be " earthed " by means of a suitably connected wire .
It also seems as if the Nernst filament were perpetually shedding off an emanation , which will electrify an ordinary electroscope placed at a distance of several inches from it .
This electrification is resinous .
294 Dr. Bottomley and Mr. King .
Experiments on [ Feb. 1 Fig. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
independent electroscope B. A wire p made connection between the metallic coatings and " earth .
" The two electroscopes were exactly similar in construction ; the main difference between them was that one had a high vacuum and the other had no vacuum .
The gold leaves of both were of the same 1907 .
] Mechanical Temperature Effects in Rarefied Gases .
295 length and width , and the glass enclosures were made from the same piece of glass tubing ; thus , if a common charge were given to the electroscopes , the lower ends of the gold leaves would stand apart at approximately the same distance in each .
A Kernst lamp Q , with its metal cover connected to a water pipe , was brought near to the electroscope A ; the gold leaves at once diverged , and those of electroscope B also diverged , but the distance apart of the leaves of B was not more than half the distance by which those of A stood apart .
If now the wire reonnecting together the gold leaves of A and B was touched with the hand , electroscope B was discharged , but electroscope A was only partially discharged .
When electrified rods of glass and sealing wax were brought up to electroscope B , the charge on the leaves was found to be resinous , but the charge left on the gold leaves of A , after the electroscope B had been discharged by touching the wire r , was not electricity at all .
To confirm this , both electroscopes were charged " vitreously , " and when the Kernst lamp was brought up to electroscope A , the " vitreous " charge of electroscope B was neutralised , but the gold leaves of A remained apart so long as the light from the Nernst lamp fell upon them .
If a spirit flame was used instead of the Kernst lamp , no charge could be got on electroscope B , although the gold leaves of electroscope A stood wide apart .
Other vacuum electroscopes , having metallic coatings of fine brass wire gauze and aluminium foil on the inside of the glass enclosure , were set up , and all the foregoing experiments were repeated .
The results obtained , although of smaller magnitude , correspond with those already described in connection with the electroscope with the metallic coating on the outside of the glass envelope .
The experiments described above are to be considered as preliminary .
The phenomena are still under observation , and we hope in a future communication to be able to lay before the Boyal Society further details with regard to the magnitude of the forces concerned , and the laws which govern their action .
Since the paper was communicated to the Boyal Society , our attention has been called to a short paper by Sir William Crookes , of 1879 , published in the ' Proceedings of the Boyal Society , ' in which certain movements of gold leaves in vacuum , similar to those which we have observed , are described .

