86 Mr. R P. Gregory .
[ Jan. 5 , " The Reduction Division in Ferns .
" By R. P. Gregory , St. John 's College , Cambridge , University Demonstrator in Botany .
Communicated by Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.R. 's !
f Received January 5 , \#151 ; Read February 5 , 1904 .
The earlier work upon the spore-formation in Ferns having led to divergent Jesuits , a new investigation was begun in connection with other cytological work bearing upon the Mendelian hypothesis .
During the progress of this work , Professor Farmer and J. E. S. Moore , in their preliminary communication to the Royal Society upon the reduction-phenomena of plants and animals , * indicated the occurrence of a true reduction at the heterotype division 11 in both plants and animals .
The examination of the early stages of 1 spore-formation in Ferns leaves no doubt that the essential features of the phenomena described by the above-mentioned authors are present also in this group of plants .
The species which I have examined are vulgare , Asplenium marinum , the so-called hybrid between vulgare and Asplenium ceterach , Onodea , Davallia capends and Fadyenia prolifera .
All these are included among the .
The processes of spore-formation are identical in all these types .
The i educed iiumber of chromosomes , which appears at the heterotype division , is thirty-two .
f Owing to the smallness of the nuclei it is not easy to determine exactly the number of the chromosomes in the case of the vegetative cells , but it is about sixty , and I think there is a strong presumption that the number is , as stated by Stevens , !
sixty-four .
An examination of Dicksonia daval and of Alsophila ( Cyatheacea ) was sufficient to show that it is extremely probable that the following description applies equally to these plants , but as the quantity of material hitherto available was small , only the early stages have been examined as yet .
After the vegetative divisions of the archesporium are complete , the spore mother-cells undei'go a period of rest during which the nuclei increase in size .
At the end of this period , that is , in the earliest prophase of the reduction division , the spireme thread undergoes a longitudinal fission .
The ensuing contraction of the spireme towards one end of the nucleus results in the formation of a series of loops .
The double nature of the loops , which is a consequence of the longitudinal fission of the thread , is clear .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1903 , June 18 .
1* Pteris tremula no exact counts were made , but the number is apparently the same as in the other species described .
X Ueber Chromosomentheilung bei der Sporenbildung der Fame , " fBer .
d. Deutsch .
Bot. Geeellsch .
, ' 1898 , p. 263 .
1904 ] The Reduction Division in Ferns .
As the polarity of the spireme becomes more pronounced the limbs of each loop approach each other , and segmentation into the chromosomes takes place .
Each chromosome has its origin in one of the loops of the spireme and thus forms a double U-shaped body , the limbs of the U being twisted upon one another to varying degrees in the different chromosomes of the same nucleus .
The approximation towards one another of the distal ends of the limbs of each U , often resulting in the appearance of a " ring " chromosome , is a common feature of the heterotype division in Ferns .
As prophase leads up to metaphase the original longitudinal fission becomes more obscure , and as the chromosomes begin to group themselves in the equatorial plate , each appears to consist of two parallel rods , which represent the approximated limbs of each loop of the spireme , and are joined at one end .
The increasing difficulty during these successive stages of recognising the original longitudinal fission in the limbs of the chromosomes has led to an incorrect interpretation of their structure .
The two limbs , of which each chromosome consists , were interpreted as being the result of the original longitudinal fission in the now shortened and thickened chromosomes .
A similar conception led to the interpretation of the " ring " form of chromosome as being due to the divergence of the halves into which each chromosome was separated by that fission .
The examination of numerous preparations of the stages intermediate between that of the looped spireme and that of early metaphase reveals the incorrectness of this interpretation , inasmuch as the original longitudinal fission can be clearly recognised each of the chromosome .
In the same way favourable preparations of the ling type of chromosome reveal the double nature of the ring , while in many cases the distal ends of the limbs either do not quite meet , or on the other hand may overlap , thus providing forms transitional to the U and X types of chromosome .
The spindle fibres are attached to the limbs of the chromosomes near the distal ends of the latter ; as , therefore , the two daughterchromosomes are drawn apart , the familiar ^-shaped figures are obtained , and the final separation takes place at a point corresponding with the apex of the original loop .
The exact time when the transverse fission , which separates the two limbs of each loop , takes place is not easily determined and appears to be variable .
In some cases it appears to have been completed before metaphase is reached , so that the chromosomes as they move to the equatorial plate consist of two separate rods .
In otheis , on the contrary , the separation is synchronous with the commencement of the contraction of the spindle fibres , and consequent divergence of the limbs of the chromosomes .
Mi- .
11 .
P. Gregory .
[ Jan. 5 , longitudinal ^^n^ore^ecome^cl^arly^apf^ren^ so that , seen in face , the diverging daughter-chromosomes form a ^-shaped body .
A splaying of the ends of the rods at this or a slightly earlier stage often gives rise to those figures , not unlike tetrads which were assumed by Calkins* to have an origin similar to that of the tetrads characteristic of the heterotype division of , for instance , Gryllotalpa , as described by Vom Rath .
In the small chromosomes of the Ferns it is impossible , in the majority of eases to trace the presence of the original longitudinal hssion through the late prophase condition up to the beginning : of metaphase .
Nevertheless , a study of the successive forms assumed by the chromosomes indicates that the gradual obliteration is apparent rathei than real ; for it can still be recognised by means of the slightly bifid ends of the limbs of the chromosomes .
These appearances are sufficiently convincing as to the correctness of the interpretation of the so-called second longitudinal fission , as nothing more than a reappearance of the original fission undergone by the spireme in the early stages of prophase .
The second ( homotype ) division follows very rapidly upon the completion of the heterotype division , and is provided for by the longitudinal fission already noticed in the diverging chromosomes of the neterotype division .
The result is , therefore , a transverse true reduction division of the bivalent chromosomes which characterise the heterotype division 1 his work , therefore , provides an extension to another group of plants aninmlsreSU ^ 'btamed by Farmer and Mooref in certain plants and It is not within the scope of the present paper to discuss the considerations tending to support the belief in the universal occurrence of a reduction division leading to the formation of the gametes .
I shall confine myself to a consideration of the significance of the i eduction division in connection with Mendelian segregation .
lewed from this standpoint the occurrence of a qualitative reduction in plants as well as in animals is extremely important as affording a possible provision for that purity of the gametes , in respect thesis\ 'm'rphlC Characters ' which is demanded by Mendel 's hypoThe work of BoveriJ upon the qualitative differentiation of chromoBot .
i " Pterid'phyte8 " 'BulL Tot"V t Farmer and Moore , loo .
cit. ui7:hr^iSlalS Mifctel ZUr Anal'yse des Zellkerns , " ' Yerh .
d. Phys. Med. Gres .
Wurzburg , ' 1902 , vol. 35 .
J |1 \i 1904 .
] The Reduction Division Ferns .
somes , supported by that of Sutton * McClungj and others , affords strong evidence in favour of the theory that the development of certain characters in the zygote corresponds with the presence of certain chromosomes or groups of chromosomes in the nuclei .
Cannon !
has suggested a " cytological basis for the Mendelian laws " founded upon the occurrence of a qualitative reduction division , and , at a time when the general concensus of opinion among botanists was adverse to such a conception , went so far as to predict the discovery of a qualitative reduction in plants .
A somewhat similar suggestion , based upon work on ( ) , was independently made by Sutton.^ Cannon 's hypothesis consisted in the assumption that in fertile hybrids , as well as in pure races , " the chromosomes derived from the father and the mother unite in synapsis and separate in the metaphase of one of the maturation divisions . . .
so that the end is attained that the chromatin is distributed in such a way that two of the cells receive pure paternal , and two cells pure maternal chromosomes , and no cells receive chromosomes from both the father and the mother.''|| Thus enunciated the hypothesis is applicable only to " monohybrids " ( de Vries ) ; it is insufficient to explain the phenomena observed in the offspring of Mendelian hybrids whose parent races differ from one another in respect of more than one pair of allelomorphic characters .
This was recognised by Sutton , U who was thus led to make a more careful study of the whole division process in , paying particular attention to the positions assumed by the chromosomes .
He says ( p. 233 ) , " the results gave no evidence in favour of the parental purity of the gametic chromatin as a whole .
On the contrary , many points were discovered which strongly indicate that the position of the bivalent chromosomes in the equatorial plate of the reducing division is purely a matter of chance , that is , that any chromosome pair may be with maternal or paternal chromatid indifferently towards either pole , irrespective of the positions of the other pairs , and hence that a large number of different combinations of maternal and paternal chromosomes are possible in the mature germ-products of an individual .
" The view that the gametes may contain both chromosomes of paternal and of maternal origin is strongly supported by the recent results obtained by Valentin Hacker in his study of certain * * * S * " On the Morphology of the Chromosome Group in Brachystola magna " ' Biol. Bull .
, ' 1904 , vol. 4/ t " Spermatocyte Divisions of the Locustidse , " * Kansas Univ. Quart./ 1902 , vol. 11 , No. 8 ( contains other references ) .
X 6 Bull .
Torrey Bot. Club/ December , 1902 .
S " The Chromosomes in Heredity/ ' 4 Biol. Bull./ 1903 , vol. 4 , No. 5 , p. 251 .
II Cannon , loc. cit. , p. 660 .
If " The Chromosomes in Heredity , " \#163 ; Biol. Bull./ 1903 , vol. 4 , No. 5 .
90 Mr* E- p- Gregory .
[ Jan. 5 , ; j He showed in 1892* that in Cyclops , as in Ascaris and other forms , , s the two germ nuclei do not fuse in fertilisation , hut give rise to two separate groups of chromosomes which lie side by side in the spindles of the dividing nuclei .
Riickertf was able to trace the paternal and maternal groups into the later stages of cleavage .
Both observers have shown that the two distinct groups of chromosomes appear also 1 in the germinal vesicle .
J HackerS has since traced the autonomy of the paternal and maternal chromatin in Cyclops from fertilisation up to the formation of the mother-cells of the gametes ; and the double structure of the nuclei at the maturation divisions is such that he is able to show " das die Vierer-gruppen auf der einen Seite cler Scheidewand vaterlichen , auf cler anderen mutterlichen Ursprungs sind " ( p. 341 ) .
In the " secundaren Keimblaschen the paternal and maternal chromosomes pass between one another " in einer ganz gesetzmassigen Quadrillen-ahnlichen Ordnung ( p. 342 ) , with the final result that " Wahrend der Eireifung von Cyclops findet eine Umordnung der Chromatinelemente in der Weise statt , class die Eizelle in gleichmassiger Mischung grossvaterliche unci grossmiitterliche Element erhalt " ( p. 374 ) .
The regularity observed by Hacker in the movements of the chromosomes at the reduction division , leading as it does to a symmetrical distribution of the chromosomes , may be our first indication of a more comprehensive symmetry which probably underlies the production of the different types of gametes in Mendelian hybrids .
" It is impossible to be presented with the fact that in Mendelian cases the cross-bred produces on an average eq numbers of gametes of each kind , that is to say , a symmetrical result , without suspecting that this fact must correspond with some symmetrical figure of distribution of the gametes in the cell divisions by which they are produced"-(Bateson).|| On the hypothesis that the segregation of characters occurs at the reduction division , we shall expect that the mitoses in a Mendelian hybrid will be perfectly regular , and in our present condition of inability to recognise qualitative differences between chromosomes alike in form , we should further expect that the mitoses will differ in no visible way from those of the pure paternal and maternal races .
Gannonll has shown this to be the case in race-hybrids of in * * * S * \#187 ; Dry EibilduDg bei Cyclopsund Canthocamp* ' Zool. Jahr .
, ' 1892 , rol .
5 .
* t1 fiber des Selbstandigbleiben der vaterlichen u. miitterlicben Kernsubstanz , etc. , " 'Arch .
f. Mikr .
Anat .
, ' 1895 , vol. 45 .
J See Wilson , ' The Cell , ' 2nd edit .
, 1902 , p. 299 S " Ueber das Schicksal der elterlichen u. grosselterlichen Kernanteile , " 'Jena Zeitschr .
, ' 1903 , vol. 37 , p. 297 ; a review in ' Zool. Zentralbl .
, ' 1903 , Jahrg .
10 , No. 11 , p. 365 .
|| ' Mendel 's Principles of Heredity , ' Cambridge , 1902 , p. 30 .
% " The Spermatogenesis of Hybrid Peas , " 'Bull .
Torrey Bot. Club , ' 1903 , vol. 30 , p. 519 .
19q4 j The Reduction Division in Terns .
91 sativum , a result which is confirmed by my own observations upon race-hybrids of Lathyrusodoratus , for the material of which I am indebted to Mr. Bateson .
/ .
, Further light upon this question may be expected from the study of hybrids between races which differ from one another either in the morphology or number of the chromosomes .
The only observations upon this point are those of Rosenberg* on the hybrid x Drosera rotundifolia .
The number of chromosomes characteristic of the vegetative and of the reduction divisions respectively in the former is 20 and 10 , in the latter , 40 and 20 .
In the vegetative cells of the hybrid 30 ( i.e. , 10 + 20 ) chromosomes appear .
In the formation of the pollen of the hybrid there occur three types of nuclei , all of which may occur in the same pollen-sac .
Commonly 15 bivalent chromosomes appear , but in many cases there are 20 ( as in D. rotundifolia ) , and in two cases Rosenberg observed 10 ( as in D. longifolia ) .
He was , however , unable to determine whether dissimilar numbers of chromosomes appear in the daughter nuclei of the same pollen mother-cell .
The investigation is , therefore , not sufficiently complete at present to-permit a useful discussion of the results .
The sterility which characterises many hybrids follows upon the abortive development of the sex cells , and the suggestion has been madet that this may be due to the inability of the hybrid to separate , in the formation of the gametes , the characters which were united in the hybrid zygote .
It is well known that sterile plant-hybrids are particularly characterised by abortive development of the pollen , or ( in the case of the hybrid Fern described by Farmer } ) of the spores .
Among the offspring of a race-hybrid of Lathyrus odoratus fertilised with its own pollen , Mr. Bateson obtained a number of individuals which failed to form good pollen .
In the plants with coloured flowers the sterility was , with a few exceptions , correlated with the development of a somatic character\#151 ; the sterile plants generally possessing a green leaf axil , while the fertile coloured plants with rare exceptions had red axils .
In these plants the divisions of the vegetative cells are quite normal , as are also those of the archesporium up to the formation of the pollen mother-cells .
The irregularity makes its appearance only in the heterotype division .
The longitudinal fission of the spireme takes place quite normally , but the segmentation into chromosomes is , if carried out at all , irregular , and the pollen mother-cells degenerate .
Since the equation divisions are quite normal , this would seem to indicate that the union * " Das Yerhalten der Chromosomen in einer liybriden Pflanze , ' Ber .
d. Deutscln Bot. Gesellech .
, ' 1903 , vol. 21 , p. 110 .
t Bateson and Saunders , Report to Evolution Committee , T , p. 148 .
X ' Annals of Botany , ' 1897 , vol. 11 , p. 533 .
I)r .
A. D. Waller .
The SecrEffects [ Jan. 16 , 1 of the chromosomes in synapsis is such as to prevent any subsequent separation , the result being that no sex-cells can be organised since the essential condition of a qualitative separation of the chromatin \lt ; is not fulfilled .
" The Secreto-motor Effects in the Cat 's Foot Studied by the \gt ; i Electrometer .
" By Augustus D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. Received November 17 , \#151 ; Read November 19 , 1903 .
Re- 1 ceived in revised form January 16 , 1904 .
In a previous communication* it was stated that the electrical signs a of secreto-motor action by tetanisation of the sciatic nerve are a demonstrable in the pads of a cat 's foot after death , best so during ; the second half-hour after death , when the action of the nerve upon muscles of the limb has ceased .
The subsequent study of these effects , by means of electrometer records , has brought out with great distinctness the chief classical events with which we are familiar in the case of the contraction of voluntary muscle , viz. , the latency and course of a single response to a -ingle stimulus , the super-position of two or more responses and the composition of tetanus , summation of stimuli , fatigue and recovery , and the staircase phenomenon .
The difference between the muscular and the secreto-motor series of phenomena is principally a difference of time , the former being about 100 times more rapid than the latter .
I may pi eface the description by stating that I have experimentally satisfied myself that the electrical effects are in reality of glandular oiigin .
I he response is completely abolished by atropine , and it is restricted to the pads ( glandular ) of the skin ! !
being completely absent from the hairy ( non-glandular ) skin , i.e. , it is not a pilo-motor concomitant .
llie description itself will be best given by means of the following electrometer records of :\#151 ; 1 .
A single response to show the latent period and duration of the response .
2 .
A series of single responses to show staircase phenomenon .
3 .
A series of four responses to show composition of tetanus .
4 .
A series exhibiting post-mortem decline .
* .
Proe .
Roy .
Soc. , ' November , 1901 , " On Skin-currents .
Part IT.\#151 ; Observa-ti ns on Cats .
The electrical effect of indirect excitation is always ingoing t irough the skin .
Ibis direction has been conventionally indicated throughout this paper by a downward movement of the mercury column .

