494 The Effect of Temperature on the Activity of Radium and Transformation Products .
By Howard L. Bronson , Ph. I ) .
( Communicated by Professor E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received November 3 , \#151 ; Read November 15 , 1906 .
) Introduction .
A large number of investigators have attempted to alter the activity of various radio-active substances by subjecting them to very high and also to very low temperatures .
Among all these attempts only two , as far as the writer is aware , have apparently given positive results .
Curie and Danne* found that the rate of transformation of the active deposit from radium was apparently permanently increased after it had been subjected to temperatures above 800 ' C. The writerf repeated these experiments , and showed that this apparent increase was due to the volatilisation of radium B. By having the active deposit sealed in a glass tube when heated , it was shown conclusively that the rate of transformation had not been permanently altered by temperature up to 1100 ' C. In both the above experiments the rate of transformation was determined in the cold after the active matter had been removed from the furnace , and no attempt was made to detect any change in the activity of the active deposit while it was actually at a high temperature .
Results Obtained by Makower .
Makowerf'has more recently made some further investigations on the same subject .
He concludes : " The results show clearly that the activity , as measured by the / 3 and \lt ; y rays , can be changed by high temperatures , the observed effects being consistent with the explanation offered by Curie and Danne , that the rate of decay of radium C is increased by high temperatures .
" The method employed by Makower differed from that employed in the previous experiments , in that he subjected radium emanation ( which was in a state of radio-active equilibrium ) to the high temperature , instead of merely the active deposit .
The emanation was sealed in a quartz tube so that no volatile product could escape .
This method had this advantage , that although the measurements were also taken when the tube was cold , * 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 138 , p. 748 , 1904 .
t ' Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ' July , 1905 , and ' Phil. Mag. , ' Jan. , 1906 .
$ ' Roy , Soc , Prop , / March , 1906 .
The Effect of Temperature on the Activity of Radium , etc. 495 yet it was possible to detect changes in the activity which had occurred during the time of heating .
The activity of the quartz tube was always found to be diminished after it had been heated to 1000 ' C. or over .
The amount of decrease varied from 3 to 15 per cent. , depending on the temperature and length of time of heating .
On account of the presence of the emanation , the activity recovered its normal value again after about one hour , apparently showing that , after heating , the rate of production of the active deposit was greater than the rate of decay .
No light , however , was thrown on the question , investigated by Curie and Danne and the writer , as to whether the rate of decay of the active deposit had been permanently altered or not .
The arrangement of the apparatus employed by Makower is shown in fig. 1 .
The ionisation in the testing vessel was produced by both / 3 and 7 Fig. 1 .
rays , and it is easily seen that the distribution of the active deposit in the quartz tube might have considerable effect on the observed activity .
It is also to be noticed that no change in the activity took place until a temperature of about 1000 ' C. was reached , which is about the temperature at which radium C begins to volatilise .
As all the results obtained by Makower can be satisfactorily explained on the ' assumption that radium C volatilised and deposited itself near the ends of the tube , it seemed desirable to further test the effect of high temperatures on the activity of radium and its transformation products under quite different experimental conditions .
Apparatus and Method .
The arrangement of the apparatus , as used in the following experiment , is shown in fig. 2 .
A few tenths of a milligramme of pure radium bromide Dr. H. L. Bronson .
Effect of [ Nov. 3 , Electroscope Rheostat Fig. 2 .
was sealed in a quartz tube , under diminished pressure , and placed in a small electric furnace directly below the electroscope , as shown in the figure .
In order to protect the electroscope from convection currents of air , it was entirely surrounded by another vessel and separated from the furnace by two layers of asbestos and one of lead , with air spaces between them .
In addition to this , the air between the furnace and the electroscope was continuously removed by an electric fan , not shown in the figure .
Even with these precautions the gold leaf did not move with perfect regularity , but the errors due to this fact were very small , as can be seen from the observations plotted in fig. 3 ( see p. 499 ) .
After several unsuccessful attempts , a satisfactory platinum resistance furnace was constructed , with which a temperature above 1600 ' C. was obtained .
The construction of the furnace is shown in the figure .
The inside cylinder was a platinum tube , which was surrounded by a layer of magnesium oxide in which the platinum wire was embedded .
Surrounding the magnesium oxide was a porcelain tube , which in turn was covered with a thick layer of asbestos .
The temperature was measured by a platinum-rhodium thermo-couple , and 1906 .
] Temperature on the Activity of Radium , etc. 497 a potentiometer specially designed for such measurements by Professor H. M. Tory .
The couple was calibrated up to 1100 ' by comparison with one of Dr. Barnes ' platinum resistance thermometers , which had been carefully standardised .
The calibration curve was extended beyond 1100 ' by means of an equation given by Le Chatelier .
This equation is of the form log e \#151 ; a log t + b , where e is expressed in micro-volts .
This equation with suitable constants fitted the calibration curve almost perfectly below 1100 ' .
In order to make certain that it held true for higher temperatures , the melting point of platinum was directly determined , and was found to differ from the calculated value by less than 10 ' .
The relative position of the quartz tube and thermo-couple in the furnace is shown in the figure .
It is easily seen that the temperature of the couple is certainly not higher than that of the quartz tube .
It is therefore evident that the values given for the temperatures in this paper are certainly not too high .
The arrangement of the apparatus as described above furnishes certain favourable experimental conditions to which attention should be called .
Errors due to change in the distribution of radium C were largely avoided by making the quartz tube short ( about 4 cm .
) , in comparison with the diameter of the electroscope ( about 12 cm .
) , and by measuring the activity entirely by the \lt ; y rays .
Any possible error introduced by the decay of the emanation was avoided by the use of radium itself as the active substance .
The relative position of the quartz tube and the electroscope remained absolutely unchanged throughout the entire experiment .
The great advantage , however , of the above arrangement lay in the fact that measurements of activity and temperature could be taken simultaneously .
This made it possible instantly to detect any change in the activity of radium C , as its temperature was raised .
The importance of this point becomes evident , when we consider the complexity of the problem under investigation .
This complexity arises from the fact that there were five radio-active substances in equilibrium , sealed together in the quartz tube .
Since the writer has shown that the rate of transformation of the active deposit is not permanently altered by subjecting it to temperatures up to 1100 ' C. , the only explanation of the decrease of activity observed by Makower is that the equilibrium quantity of radium C at high temperatures is less than normal .
A number of special cases will perhaps make this point more evident .
For simplicity we will assume that in any particular case only one of the active substances is affected by the temperature .
For example , suppose that at a certain definite temperature the rate of transformation of radium C is Dr. H. L. Bronson .
The Effect of [ Nov. 3 , suddenly increased , the electroscope will show a sudden increase in the activity .
This increase in activity will not be permanent , but will gradually diminish and practically disappear after three hours .
This follows from the fact that , when equilibrium is reached , the number of atoms of radium C which break up per second must be the same as the number supplied , and this number , according to our assumption , has not been changed .
If now after equilibrium is reached at this temperature the active matter is removed from the furnace and its activity measured again at ordinary temperature , it will be found to be less than normal , since the number of atoms of radium C present is less than the normal number .
As a second example , suppose that the rate of transformation of radium B is suddenly increased .
At once the activity of radium C begins to rise , reaches a maximum in about 35 minutes , and decays to its normal value again in about three hours .
An increase in the rate of transformation of the emanation would produce similar results , except that it would take about three hours for the activity of radium C. to reach a maximum , and as much as three or four weeks to decay to its normal value again .
With radium A the case is quite different .
Its rate of transformation is so rapid that it would regain its equilibrium value very quickly .
Therefore , unless a very large change in its rate of transformation took place , the effect on the activity of radium C would be very small and difficult to detect .
On the other hand , the rate of transformation of the emanation is so slow , that any change in the activity of radium would not appreciably affect the activity of radium C for several hours , and could not possibly be detected in the present experiment .
The above discussion is all based on the assumption that the activity is being measured by the penetrating 7 rays , which come entirely from radium C. It is thus clearly seen not only that it should be possible to determine the effect of high temperatures on the activity of the emanation and the active deposit , but that the particular substances affected ought also to be determined by the way in which the activity , as measured by the 7 rays , changes .
Observations .
When the apparatus was once arranged , as explained above , it was a very short , simple operation to perform the experiment .
Simultaneous observations of activity and temperature were taken at intervals of two or three minutes .
The temperature of the furnace was raised gradually up to about 1300 ' C. It was allowed to remain between this temperature and 1350 ' for over an hour , and then gradually raised again to 1500 ' .
After keeping it at about this temperature for nearly another hour , it was raised again to over 1600 .
1906 .
] Temperature on t Activity of , etc. At about this temperature two difficulties were encountered , the insulation of the furnace failed , and the emanation began to escape from the quartz tube .
The slightly increased activity shown by the last observation ( fig. 3 ) was due to this escape of the emanation and its presence around the electroscope .
The furnace was then allowed to cool .
Its activity measured several hours later was found to be less than half its original value .
That this decrease in activity was actually due to the escape of the emanation was shown by the fact that the quartz tube regained about half its lost activity during the next four days .
Time m Minutes \lt ; ?
.v -C 0 to 20 30 40 6 \lt ; o as / os / \gt ; 30 135 250 o U \#166 ; \#169 ; - VQ o ' 0 ' o ' 0 ' c -\#169 ; \#151 ; OCO Ocr~ ... 2.00 900 1000 Temperature Fig. 3 .
IZQO 1600 I\amp ; 00 Fig. 3 shows the results of the series of observations above described .
The approximate times at which the measurements were taken are given at the top of the figure .
Below 1200 ' each point in general represents a single observation , while above this temperature most of them represent a mean of several , which accounts for their greater regularity .
There is no evidence of any change in the activity as measured by the penetrating y rays .
If any change at all took place , it was certainly less than 1 per cent. The length of time during which the temperature of the furnace was above 500 The Effect of Temperature on the Activity of Radium , etc. 1500 ' was sufficient to have made it possible to detect a 1-per-cent , variation in the rate of transformation of either the emanation or radium B , but there was no evidence of any such change .
A similar set of observations taken with decreasing temperatures also failed to reveal any change in the activity .
Effect of Low Temperature .
A number of investigators have tried the effect of subjecting radium to low temperatures , and have obtained negative results in every case .
Nevertheless , it seemed worth while to supplement the above experiment by trying the effect of low temperature on the same radium that had been previously heated .
Only one temperature was tried , namely , that of liquid air .
The quartz tube was hung in a Dewar bulb beside the electroscope and its activity measured .
The bulb was then filled with liquid air and measurements taken continuously for an hour , but there was no evidence of any change in the activity .
Conclusions .
The above experiments show no evidence whatever of any change in the activity of the transformation products of radium , when they are subjected to temperatures between \#151 ; 180 ' and 1600 ' C. If any change does take place , it is very small , and cannot be over 1 per cent , in the case of radium C for temperatures between \#151 ; 180 ' and 1600 ' , nor more than 1 per cent , in the case of the emanation of radium B for temperatures between \#151 ; 180 ' and 1500 ' .
There is thus removed the only known exception to the general ruler that the activity of radio-active substances is not affected by temperature .
In conclusion , I take pleasure in expressing my thanks to Professor Kutherford , who suggested the subject , and furnished all the necessary material for the investigation .

