Phil Trans. 1894.B .
Plate 64 .
CO Collotype by S. B. Bolas S Co. , XI , Ludgate Hill , E.C. Phil Trans. 1894.B .
Plate 65 .
Collotype by \amp ; B. Bolas 8f Co. , IX , Ludgate Bill , t\C .
ferner \amp ; Turner .
Phil. Trans. 1894.B .
67 .
lo Collotype by S. K. Kolas Co. , 11 , Ludyate Hill , t\gt ; .
C. Phil. Trans. 1894.B .
Plate 68 .
Collotype by S. B. SolasSj Co. , 11 , Hill , Collotype by S. B. Bolas $ Co. , 11 , Ludgctte Bill , E. C. Phil Trans. 1894.B .
Plate 71 .
Collotype by \amp ; B- Bolas $ Co. , 11 , Lydgate Hill , h\C , [ 719 ] Record of Experiments illustrative of the Symptomatology and Degenerations owing Lesions of the Cerebellum and its Peduncles and Related Structures in nkeys .
id Ferrier , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of and W. Aldren rner , M.D. , Demonstrator of Neuro-Pathology , King 's College , London .
( From the Neuro-Pathological Laboratory , King 's College , .
) Received November 30 , \#151 ; Read December 14 , 1893 .
[ Plates 64-71 .
] Contents .
)duction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... lods of research .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
jriments upon the cerebellum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . . . .
derations following complete or partial cerebellar extirpation ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... eriments upon the cerebellar peduncles . . . . . . . . . .
Bnerations following lesions of the peduncles ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
eriments upon the tubercles of the medulla and the consecutive degenerations . . .
fillet systems ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
fifth nerve and its connections . .
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
... ... ... ... . .
; of references ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . . . . . . .
cription of the plates ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
PAGE .
Introduction .
eries of experiments , which are recorded in this paper , was undertaken for the se of ascertaining the effects , temporary or permanent , following total or partial \gt ; ation of the cerebellum and section of its peduncles ; and more especially with a of determining by microscopic examination the position and relations of the dary degenerations which might be induced .
But , before this research had made 1 progress , the works of Luciani ( 1 ) and Marchi ( 2 ) on a similar subject had ired .
Until Luciani , originally in the " Prima Memoria " [ 1884 ] , and more l % in his work , " II Oervelletto " [ 1891 ] , published the results of his investiga-C0Inparatively few experiments had been recorded on the cerebellum of monkeys , only previous experiments were those of Ferrier ( 3 ) on the electrical excitability DCCexciy.\#151 ; b. 4 z 21.12.94 of the cerebellar cortex , supplemented by a study of the effects of localised leg ' These were few in number , and were confined merely to observation of the tempos phenomena , the animals being killed soon after the operation , so as to obviate t extension from the primary lesion by secondary inflammation .
The experimentsf Luciani , therefore , form , at present , the only basis of facts with which our obser tions may be strictly compared.* We do not consider it necessary to refer to the vast literature relating to the effi-of lesions of the cerebellum in other animals , which are sufficiently well known tell students of physiology .
We therefore limit our references to those of more re\lt ; nt investigators working according to similar methods .
In addition to the experiments on the cerebellum itself , our research has incited the effects of section of the cerebellar peduncles , and destruction of the tubercle-on the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata , which stand in special relation tohe .
inferior cerebellar peduncles .
In order to accomplish within a reasonable time the primary object of m research\#151 ; the determination of the degenerations secondary to lesions of he cerebellum and its peduncles\#151 ; the period of observation of the animals after:he operation wak limited by the time , at which the phenomena following the leans appeared to have become stationary .
Methods .
The research embraced both experimental and histological investigation .
( 1 .
) The subjects of experiment were exclusively monkeys , Macacus sinicusmd rhesus , but occasionally other species were employed .
The operation was in all cases regarded as a surgical procedure , and condited under strictly antiseptic precautions .
The animals were deeply anaesthetise* by chloroform .
We have preferred to keep the animals deeply under the influem ot this anaesthetic , rather than to use preliminary hypodermic injections of morphisand chloral with slight chloroform anaesthesia , as employed by Luciani .
The cerebellum was exposed either from behind or from above .
If exposed rom behind , the occipit al bone was trephined below the level of the lateral sinus the opening being enlarged with the bone-forceps .
The lateral sinus was ligature on the one side , and the dura-mater and tentorium cerebelli divided .
By this either the lateral or middle lobe , or even the whole organ may be clearly expe If exposed from above , the trephine was placed over the occipital lobe and t n opening secondarily enlarged .
The occipital lobe was tilted upwards , or , be\gt ; * While this paper was being written , Dr. R. Russell communicated to the Brit. Med. Awo^i [ 'Brit .
Med. Journal , ' September 23 , 1893 , p. 680 ] a of similar researches which he prosecuting on dogs and monkeys , but , as they have not been published we are mn refer to them in detail .
the cerebellum and its peduncles IN MONKEYS .
721 whole or part was removed , the lateral si mis ligatured , and the H cerebelli divided and turned aside .
An advantage of the upper over the r method is , that the attachments of the muscles of the neck to the occipital 3 left undisturbed .
vide the superior and middle peduncles , the occipital lobe was removed and -orium divided , but it is unnecessary to the the sinus .
By this method , with dit displacement of the cerebellar folia , these peduncles can be clearly exposed ided with a cutting-hook .
The guide to the superior peduncle is the fourth which is readily seen crossing its dorsal aspect ; while the guide to the middle e is the fifth nerve , which is observed issuing from the lateral aspect of the irolii immediately below it .
inferior peduncle and the tubercles on the posterior surface of the medulla posed by removing the lower portion of the occipital bone and dividing the -atloid ligament , and tilting upwards the inferior margin of the cerebellum , the degenerations were investigated by means of the ^\#187 ; Vbigert-Pal haema-method , and the osmium-bichromate method of Marchi ( 2 ' ) .
be latter method , myeline in the process of disintegration , which occurs after j fibre has been severed from its trophic centre , attracts the osmic acid , and , as ; t black spots of degenerated myeline stand out clearly from the more or less stain of the normal tissue .
But , as shown by Singer and Munzer ( 5 ) , feiner ( 6 ) and Sandmeyer ( 7 ) , a similar punctated black staining is observed ions of normal spinal cord treated by this method .
^Vith the .
object of ining the value of Marches method as a trustworthy means of detecting ary degenerations , we have subjected the following series of sections of the cord to investigation .
Portions of spinal cord removed from a monkey immediately after death , \#166 ; tions of spinal cord from a monkey which had been dead sixteen hours before mortem examination was made ; ( c ) portions of the spinal cord of a monkey showed distinct evidence of secondary degeneration by the Weigert-Pal d. 5 conclusions derived from a study of these preparations were : first , that black may be found in and around the nerve fibres of the normal cord and of the roots , but to a less extent in the grey than in the white matter ; and secondly , the appearance of nerve fibres after separation from their trophic centres is y an exaggeration of that which may be seen in normal nerve tissue stained diately after death , and to a greater extent in that which has undergone some Mortem change .
Le mere occurrence of black spots cannot for this reason be regarded as conclusive mce of secondary degeneration .
Mtjratoff ( 4 ) considers that degeneration cannot ssumed unless , in addition to mere black spots , large bullae , formed by breaking the myeline sheath , are distinctly seen .
It is , therefore , desirable that in 4 z 2 determining secondary degeneration , Marchi 's method should be corroborated the Weigert-Pal or similar methods .
Series A. Experiments on the Cerebellum .
( I. ) Extirpation of the whole cerebellum .
This operation proved of so formidable a nature , that the majority of the aninls on which it was performed , either did not recover consciousness or succumbed-n shock within a few hours .
One animal lived three days , another five days , whik third lived three months after removal of the cerebellum .
Exp. 1 .
Macacus rhesus ; female .
May 26th , 1893 .
The cerebellum was removed in this instance from above by exposing and tiW upwards the left occipital lobe .
The left lateral sinus was ligatured and divided , ad the tentorium cerebelli incised and drawn aside so as to allow of the whole eerebe'iiu being seen .
This was then removed piecemeal by means of the galvano-caustic life and scoop , in such a manner as to avoid mechanical injury or traction on subjacet or neighbouring parts .
The haemorrhage was only slight .
The attachments of he muscles at the back of the neck were by this method not seriously disturbed .
On recovery from the anaesthetic , the knee-jerks were tested and found to befell marked and equal in both limbs ; the pupils were equal and of medium size , and fere was no distortion of the optic axes or nystagmus .
The animal , when undisturbed , lay prone on the floor with its fore-limbs dolled under it and its chin resting on its hands .
There was no curvature of the vertaral column .
When it began to move spontaneously , it exhibited a tendency to roll om left to right , and showed marked swaying and oscillation of the body and limbs .
On the following day , the monkey was still prostrate and was unable to star or sit up except by holding on to some support ; and in attempting to move it spraled with its belly in contact with the floor* and arms and legs far apart .
The gradng power was forcible and it laid firm hold of objects both by its hands and feet .
CHng to the great unsteadiness of its movements , it could not feed itself and , thereto , required to be fed artificially .
It was evidently aware ofi and could localise the slightest touch in any part of its body .
Deglutition , micturition and defecation'ere quite normal , as were also respiration and temperature .
J On the third day , the inability to stand or sit up still continued , and the a speedily desisted from efforts to do so and remained prone on the ground .
1 oscillation of the head , trunk and limbs continued so great that it was still nece'^ ' to feed it artificially .
Notwithstanding the extraordinary instability , objects p in the palms or feet were grasped with great energy , and apparently as strong/ a by*a normal animal .
the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
723 ve fourth day , the animal was lively and vigorous , and exhibited its usual wild \#166 ; When interfered with .
It maintained the same prone position as previously d- namely , resting with its belly on the door , its shoulders and thighs d its knees and elbows flexed , and its hands and feet planted far apart , so as a* wide basis of support .
From this position it appeared unwilling to move eously , and offered considerable resistance to any attempt to displace it .
The .
the hands and feet was firm and forcible ; but when the animal attempted to )iece of fruit offered it , which it did with either hand , the unsteadiness of aim rreat that it had the utmost difficulty in seizing it .
When placed near the chair or table , it was able to cling to it and support itself in a sitting posture ort time , but this apparently was so uncomfortable that it soon assumed the ron position .
The general health was good , the pulse , respiration and ture normal ; the knee-jerks were readily obtained ; tactile sensibility , vision ring were to all the usual tests unimpaired .
le fifth day , it was able to feed itself out of the dish placed before it , though nsiderable difficulty , owing to the oscillation of its head and trunk .
When Et piece of apple it readily attempted to seize it , but the movements of the 3re so wild and irregular that it only succeeded after many fruitless efforts , exhibited greater spontaneous movement ; it crawled slowly along the floor ie limbs wide apart ; it occasionally attempted to sit up , but was unable to do so \#187 ; its general unsteadiness .
When near an object of support , such as the leg of or table , it would sit up holding on firmly , its head and trunk swaying greatly , be end of the week the monkey showed greater tendency to move about leously , but still in the same sprawling fashion , falling over when without 6 , but when in a corner , or clinging firmly to the leg of a chair , able to main-s balance in a very unsteady manner .
Any attempt to lay hold of food it gave rise to marked unsteadiness of its limbs and trunk , similai to the pronounced oscillations seen in disseminated sclerosis in man .
Apart from lar effort , the oscillations entirely subsided .
Hitherto no fine tremors had been 1 , but they were observed by the tenth day .
These tremors were visible in ions involving general muscular strain , but they passed into oscillations of amplitude on any definite volitional effort .
the end of the third week , though unable to sit up without support , the animal msiderably improved in its powers of locomotion .
It no longei crawled on its final surface , but sprawled with its limbs wide apart so as to broaden its basis pport .
When perfectly at rest there were no tremors , but on the slightest al effort , the tremors started in the arms , legs , trunk , and head the tremors of lead and neck being much more constant than those of the body and limbs .
3 tremors had , for a few days past , somewhat diminished in intensity .
The .
health remained good ; the monkey was bright and intelligent , its organic tions were normal and the knee-jerks were active .
At the end of five weeks , a slight deviation of the head was observed , which h not before been noticed .
viz. , an inclination of the occiput to the right the el pointing to the left shoulder .
The animal had the same sprawling gait and inabil to sit upright without support , but was able to climb a rope or the lattice-work of ' cage hand-over-hand with great agility exactly like a normal monkey .
The trem and oscillations , which had previously been so pronounced , now showed distinct si of diminution .
At the end of the second month the gait was still sprawling .
If at all excitefe hurried , it fell over to the right side and backwards .
It sat up without support y this was accompanied by a gentle swaying of the body .
The general health a , good ; the monkey was active and intelligent ; the knee-jerks were distinctly y equally exaggerated , but there was no rigidity of the limbs .
Towards the end of the third month , the symptoms had apparently becne stationary .
The tremors of the head and trunk had largely disappeared , buthe unsteadiness of the disseminated sclerosis type on volitional effort remained as beireJ About this time the monkey , having been deprived of its former companions , becme\#171 ; dull and apathetic , and lost appetite ; its general nutrition became impaired , mi on the surface of the abdomen on which it usually rested , some patches ol an eczematous nature were seen .
It improved somewhat when another compaion was obtained , but never regained its former vivacity , and gradually failed and led on August 12th , 1893 .
Autopsy.\#151 ; The post-mortem examination showed that the whole of the cerebeum had been removed with the exception of the stumps of the flocculi on either sideand a small portion of the grey-matter of the inferior vermiform process roofing oir a part of the fourth ventricle ( Plate 64 , fig. 4 ) .
The corpora quadrigemina and calmus scriptorius were fully exposed .
The medulla and pons presented a shruken appearance .
With the exception of the left occipital lobe , which was sliftly adherent to the dura-mater , the remainder of the brain was quite intact .
Subseoent microscopic examination showed that the stump of the cerebellum , which consted merely of a small portion of the grey-matter of the inferior vermiform processed adjoining white matter of the roof of the ventricle , was composed chief d degenerated and cicatricial tissue .
This examination also revealed that the supnor medullary velum , or valve of Vieussens , had been wounded on the left side .
F'r description of the degenerations , see p. 735 et .
, Photograph , Plate 71 , fig* 1 ) Exp. 2 .
Macacus sinicus ; male .
May 31st , 1892 .
In this instance the cerebellum was removed from behind by trephining thde occipital bone and detaching the muscular attachments on the left side from superior curved line .
The left lateral sinus was ligatured and divided .
Immediately after the operation the animal assumed any position in which the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
lying upon , its side , back , or belly .
It rolled indifferently to either side , les right round upon its axis .
the second day it was well and active .
When placed on the floor it lay \#187 ; elly with the limbs folded below it .
On endeavouring to move , there was wkwardness and swaying of the body , rolling to one or other side , and les right round .
It was unable to sit up without holding on to an object x\gt ; rt .
As in the previous case , it progressed with its belly in contact with r , its arms and legs sprawling and planted far apart .
It was , however , climb well hand-over-hand , but this was accompanied by much swaying of 7- ie third day , a careful examination showed that , according to the usual tests , us sensibility was unimpaired .
It appeared to hear and see distinctly on both The knee-jerks were readily obtained .
The grasp of the hands and feet was md forcible .
The head was retracted , the chin being deviated towards the t shoulder .
le fourth day the animal , which hitherto had been progressing favourably , was 3 be weak , and on the following day it died .
\#151 ; The cerebellum was found to have been almost completely removed ( see 1 , fig. 2 ) .
The corpora quadrigemina and calamus scriptorius had been clearly Roofing in the fourth ventricle was a fragment of the inferior vermiform and on either side there remained the stump of the flocculus with a remnant \gt ; rtex .
The brain was otherwise quite intact .
In another case , Macacus sinicus , female , March 25th , 1893 , which only ed three days after the operation , essentially the same primary phenomena ire observed as in Exp. 2 ; viz. , tumultuous disorders of equilibration , a adency to fall indifferently to either side , swaying of the body , and sprawling it .
The muscular strength was strong , the grasp of the hands and feet sing vigorous and well sustained .
There was no loss of sensibility , and the lee-jerks were readily obtained and equal .
In this case the cerebellum was most completely extirpated , the only remnant being a rudiment of the right 3cculus and a fragment of the posterior part of the inferior vermiform process .
I dries.\#151 ; The symptoms observed in these three monkeys correspond in essentials hose described by Luciani in the case of two monkeys in which he had almost stely removed the cerebellum , one of which lived one month , the other eighteen is after the operation .
* most noteworthv features in our cases are the extraordinary disturbances of II and locomotion , and the long-continued , and apparently persistent , unsteadiness \#174 ; trunk and limbs on muscular effort .
We would , however , note the absence the first of tonic flexion or contracture of the fore-limbs ; the absence of any marked distortion of the optic axes or nystagmus ; the retention of great apparently unimpaired muscular strength , as evidenced by the firmness of grasp j the hands and feet , and the agility in climbing ; the presence , and ultimate increasef the muscular tone , as indicated by the existence from the first , and subsequent ex. geration , of the knee-jerks ( in Exp. 1 ) .
We would further note the absence of any impairment of the general or spei| sensibility , or disturbance of the organic functions .
We would look upon the sly general impairment of nutrition , and the local eczematous affection , as depends merely upon the enforced position and the hygienic conditions under which y animal lived .
The tilting of the chin to the right in one case , and to the left in the other#\#174 ; consider might be due to the unequal disturbance of the muscular attachments .
( 2 .
) Removal-of the Lateral Lobe .
This specially refers to the extirpation of the left lateral lobe , the middle lobe bng left intact .
Exp. 4 .
Macacus rhesus ; female .
April 15th , 1891 .
The left lateral lobe of the cerebellum was exposed by trephining over the occital bone , ligaturing and dividing the left lateral sinus , and the lobe removed piecaeal by means of the galvano-cautery and scoop .
After the operation the animal was prostrate , so that the examination ol its condition was not made until the following day , when it was found to be ery unsteady , and frequently fell , generally to the right and backwards , but occasioally to the left .
It exhibited no complete rotation to either side .
In moving fronone place to another it sprawled on the floor with its limbs wide apart , and itpj made for some object of support , to which it clung tenaciously .
Its motor powewas good , for it was able to climb with dase , and with a normal use of all four fobs Both knee-jerks were readily obtained , but the right was scarcely so well-n||p3$ the left .
On the third day the monkey was lively and active , and the general health-good .
Common sensibility , and the special senses , were unimpaired , as lndicati b. the usual tests .
Its condition as to stability , progression , and muscular strength essentially the same as before .
It exhibited , on volitional effort with the left \#153 ; wild and irregular movements , so that , when offered food , it frequently ka\amp ; e J away instead of taking hold of it .
With this were associated oscillations of * and swaying of the trunk .
, , , , j At the end of a week , while the animal sat at rest and undisturbed , with in a corner and the left limbs adducted and flexed , there was observed , apar THE CEREBELLUM ATSfD ITS PEDUNCLES IN MONKEYS .
muscular exertion , a fine tremor of the head , upper part of the body , and of arm .
These tremors passed on volitional effort , such as taking food , into , oscillations of considerable amplitude , similar to those of disseminated in man . .
e end of a fortnight the monkey was still unsteady and its gait was sprawling , lid not fall except when hurried or when it shook itself .
The fine tremor ascribed in the arm and head had now become more marked , and was visible he left leg .
The animal was in excellent health , and its muscular tone good , ited by well-marked knee-jerks\#151 ; no apparent difference being noted between sides .
ath after the operation its power of maintaining equilibrium had improved , it more steadily and was able to climb the lattice-work of the cage hand-over- ; e a normal monkey .
When sitting up in its favourite position , it exhibited rked tremor of the left arm and leg , which it endeavoured to control by the right foot over the left .
From this time onwards the condition gradually d. l examined in greater detail at the end of the second month , it was found that key walked more steadily , but the left arm and leg were raised and planted taxic manner .
When at rest , the fine tremor previously observed had dis-d , but the irregular oscillations on volitional effort , such as grasping food , .11 pronounced .
At this date there was noted an inclination of the head to it , the chin being deviated towards the left shoulder .
Its general health , jnce , and muscular power showed no impairment .
l this time onwards no marked change was noted , and when examined at the die fourth month the symptoms were :\#151 ; When at rest , adduction and flexion of i limbs ; during progression , a somewhat sprawling action of the left arm and ?
he chin continued to point towards the left shoulder .
The general health ed excellent , and the knee-jerks were active .
As the symptoms appeared to iecome stationary , the monkey was killed under an anaesthetic on August 891 .
ypsy.\#151 ; The 'post-mortem examination showed that the whole of the left lobe of rebellum had been removed with the exception of the stump of the left us .
The middle lobe was quite intact .
There was also observed obvious y of the left restiform tract , and of the right inferior olivary body .
( Plate 71 , and 4 .
) .sequent microscopic examination ( detailed below , p. 735 et seq. ) showed that in on to the lesion above described , the nucleus of Deiters on the left side was sated , apparently by traumatic influence .
Macacus rhesus ; female .
December 6th , 1892 .
is animal , operated upon in the same way , exhibited essentially the same .toms as the preceding .
\gt ; CCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 5 a ' 728 DRS .
D. FERRIER AND W. A. TURNER ON LESIONS OF On the day after the operation , it lay prone upon its helly and progressed a ] the floor with its arms and legs sprawling .
On raising itself , there was consider^ swaying of the body , and it readily sought the support of a fixed object for 8ec * When urged to progression , it fell backwards and to either side .
There wa^ nystagmus , but immediately after the operation there appeared to be a sd deviation of the optic axes to the left .
On the third day the symptoms were the same , but of less intensity .
Ittifil required support to enable it to sit upright , and this was observed to be accompli by a slight swaying of the body from side to side .
There was no defect of comm* 0 of special sensation .
It fell during progression only when hurried .
At the end of a week a fine tremor was observed in the left arm and leg , whiltha animal was sitting at rest and apparently making no obvious effort .
On volitnaf effort , however , such as taking a piece of apple offered it , these tremors passednto the coarser oscillations of the disseminated sclerosis type , which have been aliadf described under Exps. 1 and 4 .
During the next few days , these tremor in- ?
creased in intensity , but at the end of three weeks they began gradually to legem and after six weeks were no longer observable .
As regards other features aitlus time , the gait was sprawling , the ataxic movement being , however , confined t the left arm and leg , which were raised high and planted wide of the body .
The mckey continued in excellent general health and nutrition .
As the ataxic gait and tencney to loss of balance when hurried or excited appeared to have become stationary the monkey wTas killed under an anaesthetic on February 6th , 1893 .
Autopsy.\#151 ; Post-mortem examination showed that the left lobe of the cerebeuia .
with the exception of the flocculus and the adjoining portion of the lobe had jeeii removed .
The middle lobe remained intact .
The right olivary body was smallerhau the left .
Subsequent microscopic examination showed that the nucleus of Deitee was quite intact , but that the left lateral fillet was wounded just behind the left possrioi corpus quadrigeminum , ( See below p. 741 ; Plate 67 , figs. 5 , 6 ; Plate 71 , figs. , G\lt ; ) Exp. 6 .
Macacus rhesus ; female .
September 22nd , 1893 .
In this instance the left lobe of the cerebellum was severed from the middlelobe by means of a knife and removed piecemeal .
Immediately after the operation , both knee-jerks were found to be well and equal .
The pupils were of medium size , equal and contractile .
If there waany deviation at ail of the optic axes , it wras slightly to the left , and perhaps 11 : marked in the right eye .
There was no nystagmus .
When placed on the Jlcr\#187 ; lay prone on its helly with the limbs doubled up , but there was no rigid flexioiaM no curvation of the vertebral axis other than a slight tilting of the head to tip IrjJ the chin pointing towards the left shoulder .
On trying to rise from the position , the monkey fell to the right and then rapidly rolled to the left and -The grasp of the left hand was so tight and well sustained that it was able tOi| whole weight on this hand .
the cerebellum and its peduncles IN MONKEYS .
729 le following day the monkey was well and taking food .
It could sit up support merely by placing its hands far apart in front .
While in such mi a gentle oscillation of the body was observed .
It usually took food e right hand , but when using the left irregular oscillations were detected .
} was slow and sprawling , the belly being slightly raised from the ground , arms and legs planted far apart .
There was no rotation on its axis .
There L an inclination of the head to the right , the chin being deviated towards the he knee-jerks were equal and easily obtained .
There was no deviation of the Les .
So far as could be judged , the grasps were as strong and as well das those of a normal monkey , and no difference could be detected in the ' 0f the two sides .
The actual force could not be measured with any certainty , 1 attempts were made to do so by means of a dynamometer , e third day , the animal sat more steadily , but when urged to move did so very lie , planting its left limbs wide , and readily , falling if urged to greater activity , enerally to the left side .
No fine tremors were observed in the limbs , but the , on volitional effort , exhibited considerable oscillations .
If it took food with land , it usually transferred the food to the right , evidently on account of the iness of the left .
The knee-jerks were active .
ie end of a week the same phenomena continued .
The action of the left limbs ression had a sprawling character , but there was no tendency to fall unless urried .
The oscillations of the left arm on volitional effort continued , but they \gt ; t very pronounced , nor were any fine tremors observed .
The animal was able i the lattice-work actively hand-over-hand .
he end of a fortnight , the monkey had practically regained its stability .
It Le to sit on its haunches , like a normal monkey , and to climb and run easily t falling .
The left limbs , however , still showed a sprawling action , and the left ill oscillated somewhat on taking food .
Both knee-jerks were exaggerated , but ntly equal , and there was no rigidity of the limbs .
the end of a month , the monkey was well and active , and it was difficult to juish it among a number of others engaged in their usual avocations .
More l observation , however , detected a slightly sprawling action of the left limbs ; progression .
The oscillations of the left arm were still observable .
Both knee were increased , the left being considerably more active than the right , ween this time and November 15th , 1893 , when it was killed , the animal ran and gambolled with the other monkeys , and was not markedly different from in attitude or behaviour .
On careftd examination , however , at this date it was that , though active and vigorous in its movements and without the slightest ncy to fall under any circumstances , the left limbs were somewhat ungraduated e way in which they were lifted and set down during progression , and in paiti that the left arm exhibited distinct oscillations when it was stretched out to lay of some object ofiered it .
This was not visible in the left leg , for it was able to 5 a % lay hold of a piece of apple placed in this foot and raise it could scratch itself steadily with this foot .
The sligh before noted , was not now observable .
The knee-jerks difference was detected between them .
The animal was had evidently gained weight .
Autopsy.\#151 ; The post-mortem examination showed that the left lobe of the cerebel had been accurately and completely removed ; the line of incision trenching perW slightly upon the middle lobe posteriorly { vide Plate 71 , fig. 7 ) .
Remarks.\#151 ; The persistent symptoms exhibited in these three animals after the W tumultuous disturbances of equilibrium had passed off were similar in all respectto those observed after complete extirpation , with this important difference that iey were confined to the limbs on the side of operation .
This is in accordance withtie results obtained by Luciani .
Except in the third instance ( Exp. 6 ) there was no impulsive tendency to rota , n and in this animal only to a slight degree , the rolling being towards the side of lean As regards muscular strength , as tested by the force required to detach the money from its hold on any object , we were unable to detect any difference between the wo sides .
There was certainly no diminution of muscular tone as far as this made indicated by the state of the knee-jerk on the side of the lesion .
This was perkps slightly more marked on the side of lesion immediately after the operation inane case ( Exp. 4 ) , but in the other in which it was tested ( Exp. 6 ) no obvious diffemce could be detected.# The tendency in later stages , however , is towards an increase , more particular !
on the side of the lesion .
We are , therefore , unable to confirm Ltjciani 's statements as to the existent of muscular weakness ( asthenia ) , or want of tone in the muscles ( atonia ) , on the sie of lesion , or generally after removal of the whole organ .
The persistent and charactentic instability ( astasia ) we found to be more marked in the upper than lower extremies , ( 3 .
) Extirpation of the Middle Lobe .
Exp. 7 .
Macacus rhesus .
October 28th , 1891 .
The middle lobe was isolated by an incision on each side and scooped out piecemaJ .
After recovery from the anaesthetic the animal began to make active spontanea movements , moving its limbs freely ; but on attempting to raise itself fell repeate \y , tending on one occasion to roll to the left .
It could , however , sit up clingini to some support .
There was marked retraction of the head , the pupils were wi .
) dilated , but there was no nystagmus or deviation of the optic axes .
The knee-j-'ks were equal and active .
* We have not observed any such immediate marked exaggeration of the knee-jerk on the sam*'1 as Dr. Russell appears to have found in dogs and rabbits ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 53 , 1893 , p. 45 j it steadily to its mouth t tilt of the chin to the \ were active , and no sleek and well-nourished \gt ; id THE CEREBELLUM AND ITS PEDUNCLES IN MONKEYS .
731 he following day inability to maintain the equilibrium without support was enounced .
In progression the animal sprawled on its belly with the limbs abducted , swaying from side to side and falling repeatedly .
Examined as , its sensory faculties , these were found in all respects unimpaired , ke end of a wreek it had regained considerable steadiness in station and loco-but the gait was still of the same swaying , sprawling nature , though the as now raised higher from the ground than before .
Fine tremors were at this \gt ; servable in the head and trunk under conditions requiring general muscular as , for instance , when trying to maintain an upright posture ; these fine 5 did not affect the limbs .
The general health was good , and the monkey was nid intelligent .
irds the end of a fortnight the swaying movements had much diminished , but t showed the same sprawling character , though in less degree .
The animal le to climb and jump , but on several occasions when jumping from one object her it apparently miscalculated its distance and fell .
The tremors of the head ink before noted continued .
he end of a month the animal had regained greater stability , but the gait was fkward , the limbs being placed wide apart and the action high-stepping .
The jmors still continued .
he end of six weeks the animal was able to maintain its balance and walk with greater steadiness except wThen hurried .
There was a slight tilt of the chin to ht shoulder .
n this date onwards no material change occurred in the symptoms , and at the the fourth month , although able to sit up without support , the animal generally .ed to rest with its back in the corner of the cage .
The tremors of the head aot visible under ordinary conditions , but were seen when the animal was I or hurried ; there were no tremors of the limbs .
Its gait was of a somewhat Ling character , the limbs being lifted high and planted wide , so as to increase tse of support .
Its general health and nutrition were excellent , and the knee were well marked .
the symptoms appeared to have become stationary , the animal was killed on lary 20th , 1892 .
topsy.\#151 ; The post-mortem examination showed that the middle lobe of the cere-n had been completely removed\#151 ; only a small fragment on the left side ning attached to the lateral lobe .
The fourth ventricle was not exposed , but 1 over by tissue , which on microscopic examination was found to be only of a deial nature .
The gap formed by the removal of the lobe is shown in Plate 71 , 8 .
Macacus sinicus .
October 6th , 1891 .
cerebellum was exposed from behind by trephining over the occipital bone , 732 DRS .
D. FERRIER AND W. A. TURNER ON LESIONS OF ligaturing the right lateral sinus and dividing the tentorium .
The middle lobe w disorganized by the cautery and scooped out .
After recovery from the anaesthetic the head was found to be retracted , hut the was no nystagmus or ocular deviation .
The monkey speedily began to make acti movements , but on endeavouring to raise itself swayed much from side to side a| fell backwards , sometimes to the right side , sometimes to the left .
Next day it was more steady , but tended to fall back if it tried to sit up unsupport and in progression sprawled on the floor with its limbs wide apart .
Carefm examined to-day with regard to common and special sensibility , it was found tk these were in all respects unimpaired .
When examined at the end of ten days the animal was in good health and c:t-dition .
Its unsteadiness was illustrated by the following observations :\#151 ; Whenplatd on the floor away from all support it fell over , and only recovered its equilibria !
after considerable effort , and speedily made for some support with a sprawling pt and limbs wide apart .
When shaking itself or raising its leg to scratch any pavuf its body it would fall over , and also when startled by a loud noise , unless clinging^ some support .
There was no fine tremor of the head , trunk , or limbs , but it exhibfid oscillations of the arms when trying to lay hold of fruit placed on the floor before , At the end of a fortnight the animal , which had hitherto been in good health , ad a series of epileptiform convulsions , after which attacks the knee-jerks were foundto be exaggerated .
The wound was found on examination to be healed , with the exip-tion of a small sinus in the centre , but there was no evidence of septic inflammatn , The monkey , however , died during the night .
Autopsy.\#151 ; On post-mortem examination , however , a recent general inflammatio of the meninges was discovered .
The middle lobe had not been entirely destroyed as the lesion did not extend into the portion roofing over the fourth ventricle .
The re of the cerebellum and brain was uninjured , but its consistence was less firm than noral .
Exp. 9 .
Macacus rhesus .
May 2nd , 1893 .
The cerebellum was exposed from above and the middle lobe destroyed nJ removed , as in the preceding case .
|j| Immediately after the operation the head was retracted ; the pupils were equal of medium size ; there was no nystagmus or ocular deviation ; and the knee-jrks were equal and readily obtained .
The animal was unable to maintain its balanc or move from its position without falling to one side or the other .
Next day the monkey , on attempting to sit up , swayed much , and maintains its balance only by holding on to some support .
In progression it sprawled withjs limbs far apart , and its abdominal surface upon the ground , falling repeatedly , was able , however , to climb with all four limbs in the usual manner , but its swayed much while it clung to the lattice work of the cage.- i On the fourth day it showed less tendency to fall ?
but- its gait had thS i'HE CEREBELLUM AND ITS PEDUNCLES IN MONKEYS . .
character as before .
When offered food it had difficulty in seizing it , owing gular and oscillatory movements of the arm .
$ day , when climbing about , the animal fell from a considerable height and was \#166 ; d From this it never completely recovered , and , as it remained weak and ite , it was killed under an anaesthetic .
op'Sy \#151 ; The place of the middle lobe was occupied by an easily removable clot , s being removed the middle lobe was found to have been entirely destroyed , the lobes being intact * but in this instance a thin layer of the inferior vermiform 3 roofing the fourth ventricle escaped .
The corpora quadrigemina were clearly \gt ; d at the anterior end of the gap .
Removal of the Posterior Part of the Vermiform LO .
Macaeus rhesus .
April 19th , 1893 .
cerebellum was exposed from above , and the posterior part of the vermiform s destroyed by the cautery .
the following day the animal was able to sit up without support , merely resting hands set far apart on the floor , but it was seen on several occasions , though =ntly undisturbed , to fall over on its back .
It was able to walk across the floor ; bough unsteady , it had not the obviously sprawling gait described in the previous iments .
There were no other noteworthy symptoms , there being no nystagmus riation of the optic axes .
5 monkey died on the third day , and the post-mortem examination showed that sion was limited to the posterior part of the middle lobe of the ceiebellum .
addition to the above experiments , there were two in which the lesion embraced the middle and the lateral lobe .
the first of these , Exp. 11 , July 7th , 1891 , almost the whole of the right lateral was destroyed , together with the right half of the middle lobe , in the second , 12 , April 15th , 1893 , the whole of the middle lobe was destroyed with a portion le right lateral lobe .
both the duration of life was only three days after the operation , but during time they showed the same unsteadiness and sprawling gait as were observed in ather experiments , and there was temporary retraction of the head .
Theie was otation , but both animals tended constantly to fall towards the right side .
( 4 .
) Division of the Cerebellum in the Middle Line .
) .
13 .
Patas monkey { Cercopithecus ) ; female .
October 7th , 1893 .
a this case the cerebellum was exposed by tilting the occipital lobe , tying the left !
ral sinus and dividing the tentorium cerebelli .
The middle lobe was cieaily .osed and divided antero-posteriorlv .
DRS .
D. FURRIER AND W. A. TURNER ON LESIONS OF A few hours after the operation the monkey was able to sit up without support resting on its hands planted widely apart in front .
In this position it swayed fr , side to side , and frequently fell indifferently to either side .
It usually lay proJC its belly .
There was no deviation of the optic axes , but there was very consider l retraction of the head .
The knee-jerks were equal and readily obtained .
The animal , however , was found dead next day .
Autopsy.\#151 ; On post-mortem examination the cerebellum was found to have b completely divided , with the exception of a small part of the inferior vennifoo process immediately overlying the calamus scriptorius .
There was no injury to e corpora quadrigemina , nor was there any effusion into the fourth ventricle .
Exp. 14 .
Large red-faced monkey ( species undetermined ) ; female .
October 14 1893 .
The cerebellum was divided mesially as in the preceding case .
Immediately after the operation the animal moved its limbs actively .
It 11 indifferently to either side and with an inclination distinctly backwards .
On sev\#169 ; l occasions , when sitting undisturbed , it was observed to fall flat on its back .
It it up holding on to a chair tiglitly with both hands and feet .
So forcible was ie grasp that it was easier to lift the monkey and the chair than detach its hold , hi volitional effort , as in endeavouring to sit up , or in moving from one place to anotir , which it did with a sprawling gait , there was much swaying of the body .
It climbd with agility hand-over-hand .
The head was retracted , and the knee-jerks were eaal and well marked .
On the following day the gait was still sprawling , the legs and arms being pksd widely apart and the belly only slightly raised from the floor .
There was no treror , nor any oscillations of the arms when taking food to the mouth .
There was a god deal of swaying of the head and trunk on effort , such as when lapping water out \lt ; a dish on the ground .
On the third day it walked in the same sprawling fashion , occasionally falirig backwards .
Although able to sit up without support , it preferred to lie down , 1 it from a feeling of insecurity or giddiness .
By the end of the week the symptoms had to a large extent passed off , the j\amp ; it being , however , somewhat sprawling .
There was no retraction or oscillation of he head .
The knee-jerks also were readily obtained .
On the eighth day the symptoms which had been subsiding became intensifd .
The animal began to exhibit oscillations of the head and trunk , and a tendency to ih backwards , and to the side when walking .
The unsteadiness was limited to he head and trunk , and did not affect the arms , as it ate a piece of apple holding it steadily to its mouth .
As these symptoms seemed to increase , they appearedto indicate the existence of septic inflammation , and for this reason the animal aB killed .
the cerebellum and its peduncles in MONKEYS .
735 vpsy The post-mortem examination showed that the cerebellum had been tely slit antero-posteriorly .
On making frontal sections of this part , it was ; hat the incision had been carried downwards into the fourth ventricle through-* extent of the cerebellum , but was slightly to the left of the middle plane , were indications of recent inflammation of a septic nature on the under of the occipital lobe and inflammatory adhesion to the upper surface of the lum .
arkS'__From these experiments it appears that complete removal or lesion of idle lobe of the cerebellum , including antero-posterior division , produces in [ the same symptoms as those already detailed in connection with destruction whole organ and removal of the lateral lobe , but they do not affect one side ban the other , and are more pronounced in the head and trunk than in the was especially noteworthy in Exps. 7 and 14 .
In the first the middle lobe mpletely removed , and in the second the primary lesion had become extended mdary inflammation .
These results harmonise with those of Luciani .
Degenerations Following Lesion of the Cerebellum .
study of the degenerations secondary to complete , or partial , extirpation of the llum , may be considered under the following heads \#151 ; Degenerations in the sphere of the superior cerebellar peduncle .
In the sphere of the middle cerebellar peduncle .
In the sphere of the inferior cerebellar peduncle .
In the spinal cord .
( 1 .
) The Superior Cerebellar .
, er extirpation of a lateral lobe of the cerebellum , we have traced degeneration " superior peduncle in the following position and relations : -(See Exps. 4 and 5 .
) ) Sclerosis of the brachium conjunctivum on the side of the lesion throughout itire cross section , where it lies in the angle formed by the roof and floor of \gt ; urth ventricle .
The superior medullary velum , which forms a layer of white 3r on the dorsal aspect of the brachium , and which probably contains the upward ngation of the antero-lateral ascending , or Gowers ' tract , was unaffected .
:e 64 , figs. 4 and 5 , h.c. and s.m.v. ) ) Atrophy of the bundles of fibres , into which the brachium resolves itself , in segment of the pons Yarolii on the same side before the decussation ( Plate 65 , lj 6.c.)f and on the opposite side after the decussation .
( Plate 65 , fig. L h.c. ) .
) Disappearance of the bundles of fibres within and dorsal to the red nucleus of opposite side .
( Plate 65 , figs. 3 and 4 , r.n. ) ^ ) Atrophy of the fibres issuing from the anterior aspect of the red nucleus in the IDCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 5 B " dorsal zone " of* the subthalamic region and passing outwards into the optic thal ( Plate 65 , fig. 5 , b.c. , r.n. ) When viewed under a higher power of the microscope , the network of fine nied lated fibres , which is characteristic of the healthy red nucleus , had almost entir ' disappeared ; and the cells of this nucleus , although not completely atrophij appeared to have undergone some diminution in size .
The commissure which joins the two nuclei under the third ventricle was unaffeet , We were unable to detect any evidence of degeneration in the superior peduiL after extirpation of the middle lobe only .
( Plate 65 , fig. 6 ; Plate 66 , fig. 1 , b.c. ) After complete cerebellar extirpation , the condition above described occur ret ; , both sides .
Both brachia conjunctiva were completely sclerosed .
There was ertre absence of these structures in the tegment of the pons , atrophy of the decussate and of both red nuclei .
( Plate 64 , fig. 4 , b.c. ; Plate 65 , fig. 3 , r.n. ) It was specially noted that the superior medullary velum , which forms the desal portion of the superior peduncle , retained a perfectly normal appearance , fie importance of this fact will be pointed out when the constitution of the cerebiar peduncles is again under discussion .
( See p. 753 .
) The degenerations just described corroborate the view that the brachium conjnc-tivum is an efferent tract , passing from the lateral lobe of the cerebellum to he nucleus ruber and pulvinar thalami of the opposite side , * Mendel ( 9 ) has descried a tract of degeneration as the result of a haemorrhagic lesion in the optic thakus apparently passing from the pulvinar into the opposite corpus dentatum cereilli This , however , is opposed to our observations , which show complete disappearare d the fibres of the brachium centrifugal from the cerebellum .
Nor can we corrokatt Bechterew 's ( 11 , 12 ) view as to the existence of a commissural strand in the peduncles uniting the vestibular nuclei .
Forel ( 10 ) believes that the fibres oifche superior peduncle merely form a capsule to the red nucleus , and in reality passat* the optic thalamus .
But the disappearance of the fine medullated network of the nucleus and atrophy of its cells , which we have described , indicates a much connection between the peduncle and .the red nucleus .
The at rophy of the isnng bundles , however , shows that the fibres of the peduncle do not entirely terminal u the cells of the nucleus .
The decussatio brachiorum is held by most observers to be complete , anconi investigations confirm this .
Marchi ( 2 ) , on the other hand , finds eviden degeneration in both red nuclei after unilateral cerebellar extirpation , but more\gt ; i nounced on the side opposite , than on the side of , the lesion .
This we having observed .
Nor have we been able to trace a continuation of this peduncl described by Meynert and Flechsig , onwards to the cortex cerebri .
The great majority of the fibres of the brachium appear to arise in the c pl * Cramer , ( 8 ) , in a case of atrophy of the left half of the cerebellum , found considerable atrophy pulvinar thalami of the opposite side .
the cerebellum And its peduncles in monkeys .
37 im cerebelli , but it may receive accessions of fibres from other portions of the lum Thus Bechterew ( 12 ) has traced a strand , which medullates separately e other bundles , to the roof nuclei and upper vermiform process ; and Yejas ( 13 ) ionsiderable atrophy of the brachium after removal of the flocculus in young It is , however , probable that some of the peduncular fibres pass through eleus dentatus to the cortex cerebelli , without forming connection with its ut on these points our observations do not enable us to express an opinion , chief fact brought out by our observations is , that the brachium conjunctivum jnt in function and undergoes complete degeneration after extirpation of the lobe ; while its perfectly intact condition after extirpation of the middle lobe ndicates that there is no direct connection between this portion of the cere-and the peduncle ; although this does not negative the existence of an indirect bion through the cells of the corpus dentatum cerebelli .
( 2 .
) The Middle Cerebellar .
transverse fibres of the pons Yarolii constitute two sets , a superficial and a of these the superficial form a compact layer on the ventral aspect of the pons , the deep form many separate fasciculi in the interstices of which lie the oups , which constitute the nucleus pontis .
For the most part , both these sets es decussate in the raphd of the pons .
The most dorsally placed of these 3 after their decussation upwards into the tegmentum pontis .
respective relations of the fibres of the pons to the spinal and cerebral systems \gt ; even the object of much investigation , but they are still involved in considerable ity .
According to the observations of Bechterew ( 14 ) , the pons is composed 3 distinct systems : the cerebral and the spinal , the latter of which becomes lated at an earlier period than the former .
He is of opinion that the spinal )s are brought into relation with the cerebellum , mainly of the opposite side , gh the continuation upwards of the antero-lateral ground bundles into the js reticularis tegmenti pontis , and thence by the deep transverse fibres of the e peduncle ; while the fibres of the cerebral portion of the middle peduncle , crossing the raphe , end in the cells of the tegmentum pontis , with which fibies the crus cerebri are also in relation .
e effects of removal of a lateral lobe of the cerebellum upon the structures uig the middle peduncle were ( Exps. 4 and 5):\#151 ; ) Degeneration of the superficial layer of fibres as far as the middle line on the of the lesion .
( Plate 65 , fig. 1 , s.s. ) The degeneration , however , did not result \gt ; mplete sclerosis .
) Diminution in number and size , without actual disappearance , of the bundles bres forming the deep layers of the pons on the side of the lesion , as well as of ie bbres which cross the middle line .
( Plate 65 , fig. 1 , d.s. ) ( o ) Diminution in number and size , and eventually complete atrophy , of the the grey-matter surrounding the bundles of pyramidal fibres , which form the J pontis on the side opposite the extirpation .
The fibres of the pyramids them ' !
remained intact .
( d ) There appeared to be some atrophy of the network of fine mednllated ; of the nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis on the side opposite the extirpation , , no obvious affection of the cells of the nucleus .
( Plate 67 , fig. 6 , No degeneration was traced in the middle peduncle after extirpation of the lobe .
( Plate 66 , fig. 1 , m.p. ) After complete extirpation of the cerebellum the whole transverse system \lt ; tj , pons presented a markedly shrunken and atrophied appearance .
The superficia an deep transverse systems presented the same sparseness , without complete disappear as was observed after ablation of the lateral lobe .
( Plate 64 , fig. 6 .
) The met pontis on both sides was markedly atrophied ; notwithstanding this , the pyraids fibres remained perfectly intact.t It would appear from these observations that the great majority of the fibres 'tl middle peduncle decussate and form connections with the cells of the nucleus putia Our observations are entirely opposed to the statements of Marchi ( 2 ) , tha tl removal of a lateral lobe leads to degeneration of the fillet and posterior longitlin .
bundles .
In none of our experiments have these structures exhibited the sliptei indication of degeneration or atrophy .
( 3 .
) The Inferior Cerebellar Peduncle .
This structure is usually described as consisting of two divisions , an exterm are an internal ; the former being connected with the spinal cord through the ire cerebellar tract , with the clavate and cuneate nuclei , and with the opposite im ; olivary body ; the latter , or internal division , with the so-called " auditory niiei .
Our observations show that the degenerations following extirpation of the l\amp ; en lobe are limited to the external division ; while those following destruction c W middle lobe are confined to the internal division .
The External Division.\#151 ; After extirpation of the lateral lobe of the cerebellai , well marked tract of degeneration was followed to the inferior olivary body c tl opposite side , having the following position and relations ( Exps. 4 and 5 ) ( a ) In sections taken from the restiform body shortly before it bends at a gW angle into the cerebellum , the area of degeneration occupied a ventral positioi bi # This is confirmatory of Bechterew 's view that some of the decussated fibres pass to cells\#187 ; t tegmentum pontis .
1 " The sparseness and absence of complete atrophy of the fibres described here was also nod .
Cramer ^8 ) ( op .
cit. ' ) , who , in a case of unilateral cerebellar atrophy , found that the transverse the pons were not completely atrophied , but lay looser in the grey-mattei* .
the cerebellum and its peduncles in MONKEYS .
739 t distal sections it assumed a ventral and mesial situation .
( Plate 64 .
figs. 1 \gt ; assing from the ventral and mesial aspects of the restiform tract throughout nit above the clavate and cuneate nuclei are large numbers of arcuate fibres\#151 ; \gt ; rnal arcuate system .
These fibres in normal sections are readily traceable k the ascending root of the fifth nerve and the grey reticular formation , across , h^ to the opposite olivary body .
After removal of the lateral lobe , these rear found to have completely disappeared , their position being indicated by a .
of white canals in the reticular formation and the ascending trigeminal root .
64 , figs , l and 2 , r./ ) { trophy of the inferior olivary body of the opposite side , which was found to to two structural alterations , viz. ( 1 ) atrophy of the medullated fibres which he hilum from the opposite side ; ( 2 ) shrinking and eventual disappearance of iltipolar cells of the corpus dentatum olivse .
The medullated fibres which intact are either commissural between the olives , or belong to the interolivary ( Plate 64 , figs. 1 and 2 , i.o. ) accessory olivary nuclei shared in the atrophic changes above described , but Is of the lateral nucleus remained intact .
he case of complete cerebellar extirpation the atrophic changes above described on both sides ( Plate 64 , fig. 3 ) .
The cells of the lateral nucleus of the medulla esented a perfectly normal appearance .
* tract just described constitutes the great efferent system of the inferior ile , and may be termed the cevebello-olivary system .
remainder of the peduncle , which does not degenerate after ceiebellar extii , constitutes an afferent system and will receive further consideration below , p. 757 .
) f exact relations of the cerebello-olivary fibres are still a matter of dou t. lErew ( 12 ) and Bruce ( 16 ) state that they terminate almost exclusively m the surface of the corpus dentatum cerebelli , though a few fibres may possibly i each srehellar cortex .
Stilling , on the other hand , believed that only a few of the of the restiform body end in the corpus dentatum .
Marchi ( 2 ) has desciibed teration as occurring in the lateral part of the restiform body after ablation of middle lobe .
But our own observations are opposed to this , for we found no aeration in the restiform tract after destruction of the middle lobe alone .
This d prove that the external division of the inferior peduncle contains no direct nit fibres from the vermiform process .
eynert first described atrophy of the inferior olive in association with atrophy of opposite cerebellar hemisphere .
G-udden ( 19 ) and Vejas ( 13 ) found that the bello-olivary tract underwent atrophy after removal of a cerebellar hemisphere Bbchterew ( 17 ) states that the fibres which connect the lateral nucleus and the restiform body e at an earlier date than the cerebello-olivary system , ( Infra , p. 756 .
) 740 DRS .
D. FERRIER AND W. A. TURNER ON LESIONS OF new-born animals ; and Bechterew ( 17 ) and Bruce ( 16 ) , Darkschewitsch ; Freud ( 20 ) have described its myelination as occurring only in the last monfcc !
intrauterine life , by which time the other constituent tracts of the restiform bod\ir already fully medullated .
These observations , therefore , mutually confirm each \lt ; jter and prove beyond doubt the intimate anatomical and functional relationship bet^ the lateral lobe of the cerebellum and the opposite inferior olivary body .
The Internal Division.\#151 ; Complete ablation of the middle lobe of the cerebt.um ( Exp. 7 ) was followed by degeneration of the internal division of the restiform odv on both sides .
In sections made through the medulla at the level of the \#171 ; n(1 facialis , this tract of degeneration was seen encircling the dorsal aspect d the superior peduncles .
( Plate 65 , fig. 6 , e.v.t.)Through a series of sections the true was traced ventrally to the nucleus of Deiters ( so-called large-celled external ambry nucleus ) .
There was no evident atrophy of the cells of this nucleus , but the nevork of fine medullated fibres had disappeared .
Bechterew ( 12 ) and Bruce ( 16)ia ?
e traced a connection between this tract and the roof nuclei of the cerebellum-each tract being connected with the nucleus of the opposite side , the decussation fifing place in the middle plane and assisting to form the roof of the fourth ventricle .
This tract has been called by E dinger ( 22 ) the " direct sensory cerebellar tact/ and is believed by him to connect certain of the sensory cranial nerves , particlarh the trigeminal and auditory , and probably also the glosso-pharyngeal and vagus wifi the cerebellum .
It has for some time been a matter of discussion whether Deiters ' nucleus h ; am connection with the auditory nerve .
The view originally held by Clarke , Stiling Meynert , Henle , and others , that the external auditory nucleus was connected with the auditory nerve , was disputed by Deiters ( 21 ) , who believed that it form !
i internode between the antero-lateral column of the spinal cord and the cerebellm .
Yon Monakow ( 23 ) found atrophy of the cells of Deiters ' nucleus after lemi section of the spinal cord in the upper cervical region in a new-born cit Held ( 25 ) has shown , by the myelination method , that this nucleus has hot crossed and uncrossed connections with the antero-lateral ground bundles , am " w the lateral limiting layer of the spinal cord by means of the longitudinal fib systems of the reticular formation .
Onufrowicz ( 24 ) , moreover , has foun W division of the auditory nerve is not followed by atrophy of the cells of J\amp ; W nucleus .
These facts , taken in conjunction with our observations , indicate that thedpSif division of the restiform body , as described , is an efferent cerebellar tiact cofili\amp ; the middle lobe of the cerebellum with Deiters ' nucleus , and support the vl^N this nucleus is an internode in the cerebello-spinal system .
In fuithei conj|l ?
of this view is the fact that in one of our experiments ( Exp. 4 ) , in which th\lt ; # of Deiters was injured , there was a tract of descending degenei ation in the ^ column of the spinal cord .
( Vicle infra , p. 743 .
) the cerebellum and its PEDUNCLES IN MONKEYS .
741 no would , d priori , expect , complete cerebellar extirpation is followed by , the cerebello-olivary system on both sides , combined with atrophy of the [ division of the restiform body .
This experiment naturally removes the are portion of the internal division so that its condition cannot be determined but the medullated network of Deiters ' nucleus seemed to have undergone , e atrophy on both sides , though the large cells of the nucleus presented i\ appearance .
( Plate 64 , fig. 4 .
) ( 4 .
) The Spinal Cord .
ihi ( 2 ) has described , as a result of extirpation of half the cerebellum in rg and dogs , degeneration in the antero-lateral region of the spinal cord , and the anterior nerve roots on the side of the lesion .
His description of the diich occupies the periphery of the antero-lateral aspect of the cord is as :_ " Posteriorly , it divides into two parts , one projected back and externally 0 join the direct cerebellar tract , with which it is in connection , the other internally and joins the pyramidal tract .
This degeneration may be followed lout the length of the cord .
" This tract he derives as follows from the lum :\#151 ; " The posterior longitudinal bundles and fillet have a common origin he cerebellum , and especially from the middle lobe .
They pass with the cerebellar peduncle and form connections , the former with the nuclei of mial nerves and the latter with the grey matter of the pons . . .
At the-f the olives the posterior longitudinal bundles and fillet unite and pass into bero-lateral regions of the cord .
" ( Op. cit. , p. 16 .
) own observations in connection with this matter have shown the presence of b of degeneration in the spinal cord in two cases in which the lateral lobe of 'ebellum had been removed .
In the one case ( Exp. 4 ) , the area of degeneration ed a position corresponding to the anterior extremity of Marchi s tract 66 , fig. 4 ) , viz. : the periphery of the cord between the anterior nerve roots le anterior median fissure ; in the other ( Exp. 5 ) , there was no degeneration 1 region , but a well-marked tract of comma-shape , the head lying immediately al to and in contact with the antero-lateral ascending tract of uowebs , and s tailing off* with the concavity inwards to the middle of the posterior horn .
\gt ; 67 , fig. 2 , l.f.t. ) nor careful investigation of the apparent discrepancy in the two cases revealed tiet that in the instance in which there was a circumferential degeneration of nterior column , the nucleus of Deiters on the same side was implicated , while * case in which the degeneration was limited to the comma tract above described , 1 was lesion of the nucleus of the lateral fillet at the point where this tiact ds to the posterior corpus quadrigeminum .
16 question then arose whether we could ascribe the degeneration of these tracts 16 cerebellar lesion as such .
Examination of the spinal cord from the experiment in which the cerebellum completely removed , showed no evidence of degeneration , either in the latera'^ anterior column.'55 ' In this instance neither the lateral fillet nor the nucleu Deiters had been destroyed .
( Exp. 1 : Plate 66 , fig. 5 .
) In another experiment ( Exp. 18 ) in which the middle cerebellar peduncle was^ we also traced the comma-shaped tract in the lateral column of the spinal \lt ; m* apparently in relation with this lesion .
And further experiments , specially directed to the solution of this questions detailed below { infra , p. 761 ) , proved that the comma-shaped degeneration in the la.ra| column of the spinal cord stands in relation to lesion of the lateral fillet ; and thathe marginal degeneration in the anterior column is in all probability connected % lesion of Dexters ' nucleus .
Flechsig ( 26 ) , Held ( 25 ) , and Bruce ( 16 ) , by the myelination method , anchor Mona row ( 28 ) , by the degeneration method , have differentiated in the meulb oblongata a tract continuous with the lateral fillet ; but so far as we are a wan th relations of this tract to the cord have not been previously described .
These t tbi degenerative method are , according to our observations , as follows :\#151 ; The lateral fillet tract.-\#151 ; From the nucleus lemnisci lateralis , an area of degene : , tioi was traced through the pons and medulla into the lateral column of the spinahord The tract leaves the lateral fillet at the level of the motor nucleus of the fifth :uvt so that a section made at this point reveals the tract lying between the nucleu an the superior olivary body , and on the mesial side of the motor root .
The degen aie area is visible amongst the fibres of the corpus trapezoideum lying ventral 1 ti nucleus of the seventh cranial nerve , and between this nucleus and the ascedin trigeminal root .
( Plate 67 , fig. 5 , lfit .
) The superior olivary body on the de \lt ; the lesion has undergone no change .
At the upper end of the inferior olivary)od the tract in question occupies the dorsal ( posterior ) half of the area betwe*i tl olive and the ascending root of the fifth nerve , the ventral ( anterior ) portion 11 area which is normal being the continuation of the antero-lateral ascending tuct Gowers .
( Plate 67 , fig. 4 , l.f.t. and a.l.as With these relations the tract is traced to the distal end of the inferior oliv still more distal sections through the medulla it lies in front of , and somewhat iiewi to , the direct cerebellar tract and dorsal to the ascending antero-lateral tflcfc , Gowers .
By its mesial border it is in contact with the formatio reticulaiis ust At the lower end of the decussation of the pyramids , it lies vential to the bundles of ^fibres which have crossed from the opposite anterior pyramid .
( Pk fig. 3 , lfit .
) From the level of the first cervical nerve it assumes the sba]M position which it retains throughout the upper cervical region .
It lies in the ^ column of the spinal cord , extending from the posterior horn as far forwa s * Several sections of the spinal cord from this case were submitted by us to Dr. Howard Tooa ; agreed withi the opinion here expressed .
the cerebellum and its peduncles in MONKEYS .
743 rolongation outwards of the anterior commissure .
Anteriorly , it is expanded so rm a head , which lies immediately internal to the head of Gowers ' tract , while oBy it is constricted and lies along the mesial side of the crossed pyramidal tract .
67 fig. 2 , l.f.t. ) The tract , gradually diminishing in size , we have followed tly'as far as the sixth thoracic segment , but below this it is difficult to differ-s .
( Plate 67 , fig. 1 , ^0 mghout its course the degenerated tract is nowhere an area of complete sclerosis , atains many healthy nerve fibres .
These are , in the spinal cord , the fibres of \gt ; ssed pyramidal tract ; while in the medulla , they appear to belong to the longi-1 fibre system of the lateral reticular formation .
Tract from Dexters ' Nucleus.\#151 ; As we have already mentioned ( p. 727 ) , in one of ses in which the lateral lobe had been removed ( Exp. 4 ) , an area of degeneration iserved at the periphery of the anterior column corresponding in position with iterior extremity of Marchi 's cerebellar tract .
This tract was most distinctly i the upper cervical region , but could be followed into the lumbar enlargement , the spinal cord it occupied the periphery of the anterior column from the or nerve roots to the median fissure along which it extended a short distance .
66 , fig. 4 , a At .
) At the level of the pyramidal decussation it occupied relatively me position as obtained in the spinal cord .
m this point upwards the area of degeneration could not be traced as a distinct but , as the figures show ( Plate 64 , figs. 1 and 3 , r.f ) , the reticular formation , ally its dorso-lateral region , was less deeply stained than the opposite side , and ited an atrophied appearance .
This condition was traced as far as the upper f the restiform body .
this case a careful examination of a number of sections taken through this legion ed that the cells of Deiters ' nucleus on the side of the lesion were either entiiely it or were greatly reduced in number ; and the whole appearance of the tegmentum lis point indicated some traumatic lesion connected with the removal of the al lobe .
( Plate 66 , fig. 3 .
) e would again call attention to the fact that in the case of complete cerebellar 'pation no such tract of degeneration was discoverable in the spinal cord , and the of Demers ' nucleus were normal ; and a similar healthy appearance was obseiv-iu another case of extirpation of the lateral lobe ( Exp. 5 ) .
( Plate 66 , fig. 2 .
) the evidence , therefore , is in favour of the tract in question being dependent upon ruction of the cells of Deiters ' nucleus .
It is , however , our intention to further ?
ecute our researches on this point .
The presence of this tract among the fibres of the crossed pyramidal tract would serve to accou he less degree of sclerosis in this region from lesion of the .motor cortex than from hemisection o spinal cord , as has been noted by Sherrington ( 30 ) ; and Bechterew ( 36 ) has .
shown that on the ial Bide of the direct cerebellar tract , and in the pyramidal tract , are scattered fibres , often forming a hict system , which myelinate at an earlier date than the pyramidal fibres proper .
MBCCCXCIV.\#151 ; B. 5 C BUS .
D. EERRlER AND W. A. TURNER ON LESIONS OP [ Our subsequent examination of a third case of extirpation of the lateral y ( Exp. 6 ) has revealed the same area of degeneration in the periphery of the a L * column of the spinal cord , and also the fact that the nucleus of Deiters was in \ in the experimental lesion.\#151 ; August , 1894 .
] We cannot , after careful investigation , confirm Marchi 's statement as tojv existence of degeneration in the anterior nerve roots , posterior longitudinal bundle mesial fillet after lesions of the cerebellum .
Series B.-\#151 ; Experiments upon the Cerebellar Peduncles .
( 1 .
) Division of the Left Superior Cerebellar Exp. 15 .
Macacus sinicus .
May 24th , 1892 .
The skull was trephined over the left occipital region , the left occipital lobewns removed and the tentorium cerebelli laid bare .
This was divided so as to fully esose the corpora quadrigemina and superior peduncles .
A cutting hook was then insted mesially and the left superior peduncle divided outwards , immediately posterior tithe fourth cranial nerve .
On the next day the monkey was found in good condition and had taken bod spontaneously .
There was great disturbance of equilibration .
When placed oith* floor it lay prone on its belly , with the left limbs flexed by its side and the ighi extended and abducted .
On attempts at progression , it fell over constantly t th\lt ; left side .
When placed in the cage , it at once sought support in the corner , hclirif on to the wires with the right limbs .
There was no palsy , for it climbed , usir ai four limbs vigorously .
There was marked nystagmus in both eyes , especially i thi left eye and on movement to the left .
Both conjunctival reflexes were present am it responded to tactile impressions on all four limbs .
There was no material change during the next few days .
At the end of a wed thi monkey continued in good health ; it had regained a greater degree of stability bu !
still exhibited the same tendency to fall to the left .
When placed on the flor .
1 kept the right arm widely abducted , while the left arm was generally maintained !
) flexed position and was the subject of fine tremors , which became greatly ampfiw on exertion .
These tremors were also observed to some extent in the left leg .
Ik nystagmus still continued , more especially in the left eye , and on lateral moveisni to the left .
At the end of a fortnight , the difficulty of maintaining the balance had , to j^\#174 ; 8 , extent , passed off , and the animal did not now require support to sit up .
startled , or when making a hurried movement , it fell over .
The tremors and oscilhioni of the left arm and leg still continued well marked .
It was noted also , that theie$f was kept with the occiput inclined to the left , and the chin pointing to the MT shoulder .
the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
he end of a month the power of maintaining balance had improved .
The left vere planted wide , and it occasionally fell when hurried .
The tremors and ions of the left limbs were still present , but less marked than before .
The nus continued .
animal was attacked by diarrhoea , which was epidemic in the laboratory at the ad died forty days after the operation , without having exhibited any notable or improvement .
pSy___The brain was removed and placed , without disturbance of the parts the seat of lesion , in Mulleb 's fluid .
Sections were subsequently made at ve\ and stained .
One of them , from the middle of the incision through [ uncle , represents the extent of lesion ( Plate 68 , fig. la ?
) , and shows that , in n to the superior cerebellar peduncle , the so-called descending root of the fifth ad also been cut ( Y , d. ) , and that the point of the knife had wounded a small of the dorsal region of the tegmentum pontis .
5 .
Macacus rhesus , female .
September 26th , 1893 .
operation was performed in the same way as the preceding , hour after the operation the animal lay prone with the arms and legs spread 3n the slightest attempt to change its position , it swayed much and fell 'ently to either side .
There was no deviation of the optic axes , the corneal b were normal , and the pupils were equal and of medium size ; the knee-jerks reJl marked and equal .
the following day the animal was well and active .
The most marked symptom tense perturbation and swaying of the body on the slightest attempt at move-As a consequence , it kept the prone position on the floor , but , nevertheless , ble to progress very slowly with its limbs widely sprawling .
It rolled over to side , and was unable to sit up without holding on to some support .
There was idity of the limbs , and although it did not use its left arm so frequently as the the grasp of this hand was strong and well-sustained .
Irregular oscillations of isseminated sclerosis type were well seen in the left arm on taking food .
The was tilted to the right , the chin being deflected to the left shoulder .
The knee were readily obtained and equal .
There was no defect of sensibility in the i ot distribution of the left fifth nerve .
the third day the chief feature was still the intense swaying and oscillation of whole body on the slightest effort .
Movements of the disseminated sclerosis were marked in the left arm and leg .
Owing , probably , to the discomfort ioned by these oscillations , it did not use the left arm so frequently or so tively as the right .
There was no diminution in the lachrymal secretion of the eye .
t the end of a week the monkey remained in much the same condition , a lessening 746 DRS .
D. FERRIER AND W. A. TURNER ON LESIONS OF of the general agitation on effort having however occurred .
Except when qU^e rest , a constant tremor was observed in the left arm and leg , which passed k larger oscillations on volitional effort , as in taking food .
The animal still fell dur , progression , mostly to the left side .
At the end of a fortnight , the symptoms had lessened considerably in intense The tremor was still present in the left arm , hut it had disappeared from the left \gt ; When walking the left limbs were raised high and planted somewhat wide ofu body , and the oscillations of the left arm of the disseminated sclerosis type were i\\ very evident .
The knee-jerks were active and , if anything , the left was slightly marked than the right .
These symptoms continued , but in lessened intensity , when the animal was ky under an anaesthetic four weeks after the operation .
( The condition of the brain il be described at a later date when it has been sufficiently hardened for examinatio ) [ Autopsy.\#151 ; Microscopic examination at the seat of lesion showed that the supio cerebellar peduncle and the subjacent descending root of the fifth nerve had ei divided on the left side .
It was noticed also that the temporal and masseter muie on the left side were considerably atrophied .
There was , however , no evident impsa tion either of the motor division of the fifth nerve , nor of its motor nucleus , so-caec The cerebellum was intact , save a slight softening over the seat of lesion of:h peduncle.\#151 ; August , 1894 .
] In a third experiment ( Exp. 17 , jhfacctc , May 4th , 1892 ) , in whiclti monkey only lived four days after the operation , there was observed , immediately it ' recovery from the anaesthetic , absence of the conjunctival reflex on the left diminution in size of the left pupil .
The animal moved about spontaneously !
) !
exhibited a distinct tendency to roll to the left .
Eotatory nystagmus also was vib in both eyes .
The knee-jerks were readily obtained on both sides .
On the following day equilibrium was very unsteady .
Left to itself the animal it its cage , holding on to the wires for support .
When placed on the floor , it lay pi with the limbs doubled up under it .
When urged to move the body swayed the left limbs being raised high and planted in an ungraduated manner .
The lelbo junctival reflex was defective , and the rotatory nystagmus was still present , he appeared to be defect of vision towards the right , but there was no defect of com sensation .
# , Autopsy.\#151 ; The post-mortem examination showed that the left occipital oh been removed and that the upper surface of the left cerebellar hemisphere warn The lesion was distinguished as an incision a short distance behind the corpora q gemina on the left side .
After hardening in Muller 's fluid , sections were era stained .
These showed that the peduncle had been entirely divided behind tb margin of the valve of Vieussens .
the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
( 2 .
) Division of the Left Middle Cerebellar Peduncle .
steps for this operation were the same as for the superior peduncle , viz. , exposure aoval of the left occipital lobe , division of the tentorium , and careful retraction cerebellar folia , until the anterior margin of the middle peduncle and the fifth nerve were seen .
The peduncle was divided by a cutting-hook from within is and in a direction transversely to the fibres .
3 .
Macacus rhesus , female .
February 28 , 1893 .
ediately after recovery from the anaesthetic there was observed curvation of the al column with the concavity to the left , and a tendency to roll to the left side , it limbs being extended and abducted , the left flexed and adducted .
Anaesthesia left cornea also existed , and nystagmus , which latter lasted for about a half ter the operation .
, - v the following day , when the animal was placed on the floor , it lay prone and ed great swaying of the body and a sprawling gait on attempting spontaneous ient .
There was now a tendency to \#166 ; fall backwards and to the left , instead of to the left .
The left pupil was smaller than the right , and the left cornea and iole of the left side of the face completely anaesthetic .
ing the next three days the symptoms were essentially the same and were not ; iably lessened .
the fifth day the animal was more steady , but left to itself generally clung to support to obviate the tendency to fall .
Instead of a tendency to fall to the here was an inclination to fall and sometimes even to roll to the right side .
At ime , the temperature was slightly raised , which was attributed to a superficial n of the wound having not completely healed .
This , however , healed by granu- .
in a few days .
the end of a fortnight there was still considerable unsteadiness and swaying of rank , and the irregular oscillations of the left limbs were present on exertion , but were no fine tremors .
The deviation of the chin to the left continued .
The cornea and left side of the face were anaesthetic , but the cornea itself remained etly transparent , and free from all turbidity or ulceration .
b the end of a month the animal had practically recovered from its unsteadiness piilibrium , but still exhibited oscillatory movements of the left arm on volitional tion , and the movements of the left leg were awkward in progression .
The ation of the chin persisted .
The anaesthesia of the cornea and face remained as re , and there was atrophy of the left temporal and masseter muscles .
The cornea ained quite transparent .
kom this date no material change occurred , and , as the symptoms appeared to have ome stationary , the monkey was killed under an anaesthetic two months and ten after the operation .
Autopsy.\#151 ; It was found , after removal of the brain , that the incision in the mid peduncle was filled in by cicatricial tissue .
The brain was accordingly placed Muller 's fluid and sections from this region were subsequently cut and stained nature and extent of the lesion is seen in Plate 68 , figs. 2 and The whole of the middle peduncle had been divided with the exception of a fat the most ventrally situated fibres .
As the lesion was made where the fifth ne'e issues from the side of the pons Yarolii , it was involved in the cicatrix , and degenet tion was traced both in its ascending and descending roots ( see p. 762 ) .
Owing to sce implication of the tegment of the pons , the tract from the lateral fillet was diviM and degeneration was traced into the lateral column of the spinal cord ( see p. 7*\ The brachium conjunctivum of the superior peduncle appeared also to have hn slightly wounded externally .
Exp. 19 .
Macacus rhesus .
September 22nd , 1893 .
The operation was performed as in the preceding case .
One hour after the operation the animal , when placed on the floor , lay chiefly mn its left side ; when put upon the right it at once rolled over to the left .
)n attempting spontaneous movements , it also rolled rapidly to the left .
When a firei was placed in the palm of the left hand the monkey grasped it tightly , and by means was able to climb on to the observer 's arm and cling there with all four liibs The chin was markedly deflected to the right shoulder , the occiput being inclinectt the left .
There was no deviation of the optic axes .
The knee-jerks were equal ei active , and there was no perceptible difference between them .
On the following day the animal showed little energy .
It sat up holding on toh\lt ; bars of the cage .
When placed on the floor , it lay on its left side with the aii pointing to the right .
It raised itself on its haunches with its legs and arms vd apart on the floor .
It did this fairly well , requiring some time to get itself prop !
; balanced .
There were no oscillations or tremors , when left alone in this position .
I swayed a little when it tried to turn round , apparently from lateral oscillations 0U1 head and trunk .
It was very unwilling to move , and usually lay prone ; on moveisn it fell to the left side .
On the third day the monkey was rather more active ; it walked with a slow sprawn ; gait , but very readily lost its balance and fell over to the left .
Slight oscillation c the body were observed while sitting .
The knee-jerks were well marked .
Tbjf * was slightly deflected to the right , but apparently less than before .
As the was on the fourth day weak and prostrate , it was killed under an anaesthetic .
Autopsy.\#151 ; A good deal of effusion had occurred over the upper surface of the \#174 ; lobe of the cerebellum .
The middle peduncle was found to have been divided , \gt ; u the incision had not entirely severed the most ventrally placed bundles of fibres , right occipital lobe had been removed ; the rest of the brain was intact , THE CEREBELLUM AND ITS PEDUNCLES IN MOllKEYS .
749 ) .
Macacus rhesus , female .
September 20th , 1893 .
hour after the operation the animal lay prone with the left limbs flexed and it extended and abducted .
On the slightest attempt at movement , it rolled the left , in the direction of the pointing of the chin .
This was deflected to it , the occiput being inclined to the left side .
The eyes deviated to the right , optic axes retained their parallelism , and there was also slight nystagmus in es .
The pupils were equal , as also were the knee-jerks .
It grasped well with ds and feet , the grasp of the left limbs being quite as strong as that of the There was a slight incurvation of the whole vertebral column to the left .
, he following day the curvation of the vertebral column had disappeared , h the chin still pointed to the right shoulder .
It sprawled along the floor belly , but there was no swaying of the body .
When sitting , which it did leaning on its hands spread out in front of it , there were noted fine oscillations aead and trunk .
The tendency to roll had gone .
It did not use the left arm i as the right , but it grasped equally well with both .
There was no defect of ity in the distribution of the left fifth nerve , smimal died on the fourth day after the operation .
, psy.\#151 ; The middle peduncle was found to have been divided in a direction at ngles to the course of the fibres , and in this , as in the previous experiments , st ventrally situated fibres were not severed .
The incision having been made or and somewhat dorsal to the roots of the fifth nerve , this structure had l division .
The lesion was confined to the middle peduncle , the corpora gemina and superior peduncle being intact .
mother experiment ( Exp. 21 , Macacus , February 7th , 1893 ) , the left *le was divided by exposing the left half of the cerebellum posteriorly ; and by sertion of a cutting-hook , the peduncle was divided transversely to its fibres , s was followed on recovery from the anaesthetic by deviation of both eyes to jht without nystagmus .
The animal lay prone , but on spontaneous movement id on its axis from right to left , that is towards the side of lesion .
The grasps , \gt ; f the hands and feet , were forcible , and the knee-jerks were present on both The animal died on the following day from the occurrence of haemorrhage in eighbourhood of the lesion .
The left middle peduncle had been completely :d .
( 3 .
) Division of the Left Inferior Cerebellar .
22 .
Macacus rhesus , female .
April 12th , 1892 .
e peduncle was destroyed in this case by the galvano-cautery .
i recovery from the anaesthesia there was incurvation of the vertebral axis to the The monkey lay prone with the left limbs adducted and flexed , and the right 3 extended and abducted .
Attempts at movement occasioned rolling from right to left , and apparently with a view of preventing this the animal held on tig^ with the right limbs to any article it could clutch .
The knee-jerks were equal a[ normal ; there was no loss of sensibility , the animal being apparently aware f cutaneous stimulation on every part of the body .
On the following day the same incurvation of the vertebral axis to the left % noted , with tilting of the chin to the right .
When placed on the floor it lay pr e with the limbs sprawling and widely abducted , in which position it was able to crid along the floor .
On several occasions it was observed to roll round its axis towefs the left side .
It was unable to sit up without support , and when raised fromts prone position , it grasped tightly with all four limbs as if from fear of falling .
No further observations were made until the ninth day , when the animal as found to be well and active , and taking food heartily .
It could sit up onlyby holding on to some support , or by widely abducting and resting on its fore-limbs nd buttocks .
When startled or disturbed , it occasionally tended to fall over .
It m able to progress with a sprawling gait , the limbs on the left side being irregular ataxic in movement .
It was able to climb about in a normal way .
The head\#171 ; as still inclined as before , and slight nystagmoid movements were observed in the res At the end of three weeks the animal showed much more steadiness , and eult maintain its balance undisturbed , but occasionally falling when hurried .
Its gaitva still slightly sprawling , the movements of the left limbs only being unsteady .
At the end of two months there was still slight instability of equilibrium , aftli animal fell when shaking itself ; the gait was more like that of a normal moice } though the left limbs were somewhat unsteady .
The deviation of the chin t\#171 ; :th right continued .
No material alteration had occurred when the monkey was kill !
o August 17th , 1892 , four months after the operation .
Autopsy.\#151 ; The lesion of the restiform tract proper in this case is figured on Pla !
6 ; fig. 4 , x. From this it is seen that , in addition to the lesion of this structuri ti nucleus cuneatus was also involved .
The figure merely represents the most isti portion of the lesion .
Sections made higher up showed that the whole extent c h corpus restiforme up to where it bends into the cerebellum was destroyed .
Id ] case the ascending root of the fifth nerve was uninjured on the side of the lesior Exp. 23 .
Macacus radiatus , female .
July 12th , 1892 .
The peduncle was in this case divided transversely by means of a curved km : After recovery from the anaesthetic , the following phenomena were obs'^ There was incurvation of the body to .
the left , but no nystagmus or optic devtu The left corneal reflex was diminished .
The animal , when at rest on the prone with the left limbs adducted and flexed , and the right limbs abdiMfi\#169 ; extended .
From this position the animal on attempting to move rolled over tc/ a* the left side , and this it endeavoured to prevent by laying hold of some o jp the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
rl by its right limbs .
It grasped firmly with both hands and feet , and there o loss of sensation in the trunk or limbs .
the following day the animal still exhibited marked rolling towards the left the third day the tendency to rolling had passed off ; the position assumed on )0r was prone on the belly Avith the limbs sprawling , and it made no effort at \gt ; ssion .
It was unable to sit up without holding on to some object of support , nee-jerks were equal and readily obtained ; there was no defect of sensibility .
on the left cornea and left side of the face , which had been observed from the ling .
the end of a week the animal could walk across the floor with the belly close to round and the limbs sprawling .
Although unsteady , it did not fall over .
It ble to maintain an erect posture only by holding on to some object of support , listed greatly when attempts were made to detach it .
, animal continued well and in much the same condition for a fortnight , when it ie ill with diarrhoea and , being prostrate , was killed under chloroform .
topsy.\#151 ; Sections made subsequently through the site of the lesion showed that lition to the restiform body itself , a small part of the grey matter of the floor 3 fourth ventricle at the outer part , the ascending root of the auditory nerve , he dorsal half of the ascending root of the trigeminus had been divided .
24 .
Macacus rhesus , female .
March 8th , 1892 .
e operation was the same as in the preceding case .
this instance the phenomena were not so pronounced .
There was less tendency lling , and though the gait was sprawling , the animal was able to maintain its ice when resting on the floor with the hands placed wide apart in front of it .
e were oscillatory movements of both eyes , and the left pupil was smaller than right .
There was also well-marked anaesthesia of the cornea and left side of the The knee-jerks were present .
ti the seventh day the animal was weak , and the symptoms became intensified ability to maintain the balance ; during progression a sprawling attitude with the ( in contact with the floor ; when holding on by the right limbs and using the arm to feed itself , oscillations of the left arm were observed .
n the two following days the monkey still remained prostrate ; the limbs assumed position which they commonly did immediately after section of the restiform body , \gt ; flexion and adduction on the side of the lesion , extension and abduction on the osite side .
The anaesthesia of the cornea and the left side of the face remained before .
The temperature was normal , but as there was a suspicion that secondary animation was occurring , the animal was killed on March 18th .
Autopsy , \#151 ; The restiform body was found on post-mortem examination to have been " ucccxciv.\#151 ; b. 5 D Hi * DRS .
D. EERfllER ANt ) W. A. TURNEit ON LESIONS Ofl divided immediately above the cuneate tubercle .
The cerebellum was somewh softened .
In a fourth case ( Exp. 25 , Macacus sinicus , March 1st , 1892 ) , observations w only made immediately after the operation .
There was flexion and adduction of ie left arm and leg , abduction and extension of the right .
When urged to move monkey tended to roll on its axis towards the left , to prevent which it clutch wildly for support with the limbs on the right side .
In these struggles the left un and leg were not used , but the grasps of the hand and foot were vigorous .
The was deviation of the eyes to the left , and some clonic spasm of the left leg .
Two hours later the position of the limbs already described was less marked , it the monkey still rolled to the left side .
There were oscillatory nystagmoid movemets in both eyes , mainly on looking to the left .
There was also detected some degreeof anaesthesia of the left cornea and left side of the face .
The animal died before furfer observations could be made .
In this case also the left inferior peduncle had bn divided .
Exp. 26 .
Macacus rhesus , female .
November 4 , 1893 .
The animal recovered rapidly from the operation .
On attempting to move it reed round its axis from right to left , as many as four to six times in succession , tfo deviation of the optic axes was observed either during rotation or when lying qnek The chin , however , pointed somew'hat to the right shoulder , and there was ma:ed incurvation of the vertebral column to the left .
, WEen lying undisturbed the floor , the left limbs were flexed and adducted , the right fully abducted nd extended , but they were not maintained in this position by rigid flexion or ex tenon , as they could be passively moved without resistance .
The knee-jerks were equal nu apparently normal .
On the following day the animal was fairly active , but very wild .
It exhibitedhe same phenomena , but in a somewhat less marked degree .
There wag # d-e unsteadiness in the movements of the left arm when taking hold of an object , sui ns a piece of apple ; but there were no marked oscillations or tremors .
There \#169 ; 8 loss of corneal sensibility in this case .
^\#166 ; t)^ On the third day the characteristic position of the limbs was no longer assui 'd although there still remained a tendency to roll to the left , vertebral incurv\#187 ; h\#171 ; the left and deflection of the chin to the right . .
: Jj| Lie The animal , which was wild and would not take food spontaneously , die U^o following day .
This experiment , which was performed for the purpose of testing sonm cr previous observations , has been done so recently that the brain is not , as y \gt ; for minute investigation . .
[ Autopsy.\#151 ; The restiform body had been cut a short distance in tront o THE CEREBELLUM AND ITS PEDUNCLES IN MONKEYS .
753 s cuneafcus , but the lesion did not extend to the ascending trigeminal root , er respects the brain was normal .
August , 1894 .
] jar ]cs._The symptoms following division of the peduncles are very similar to \gt ; ccurring after removal of the lateral lobe , the chief difference being the greater cy to roll round the longitudinal axis towards the side of lesion , whichever ; le is cut .
attitude immediately after section of the inferior peduncle was also a constant aracteristie one , viz. , curvation of the vertebral axis with the concavity towards e of lesion , adduction and flexion of the limbs on the side of lesion , and abduc-Ld extension of those on the opposite side .
direction of deviation of the chin was not constant ; in the majority of the b was deflected to the side opposite the lesion and in the direction of the rota-und the vertebral axis , which caused the animal to roll to the side of lesion .
everal cases , after division of the inferior peduncle , anaesthesia of the cornea on le of lesion was observed .
As will be again referred to , this was due to impli-of the immediately subjacent ascending trigeminal root .
In Exp. 18 ( division middle peduncle ) the trunk of the fifth nerve had been divided where it joins as Yarolii .
Degenerations following Division of the Cerebellar Peduncles .
degenerations following division of the cerebellar peduncles are confirmatory of which have been already described after removal of the cerebellum itself .
1 attention was , however , given in these cases to the detection of afferent as s efferent tracts in the respective peduncles .
( 1 .
) The Superior Cerebellar Peduncles .
have already shown ( vide supra , p. 736 ) that the brachium conjunctivum of the or peduncle degenerated completely as far as the red nucleus of the opposite her extirpation of the lateral lobe of the cerebellum , and this received confirmar rom a study of the degeneration following section of the peduncle itself .
The ce 'f any non-degenerated area in the cross-section of the brachium on the fai side of the lesion would indicate that this structure contains no tract centri-to the cerebellum .
Put we have already p. 736 ) pointed out that the ior medullary velum which lies on the dorsal aspect of the brachium retained a al appearance after cerebellar extirpation ( Plate 64 , figs. 4 and 5 , s.m.v. ) .
After L0Ii 'f the whole superior cerebellar peduncle , or after injury to the velum ( as impulse which causes an animal to roll towards the side of lesion may he described as a acy to rotation round the vertebral axis towards the sound side .
In this sense we should be in 'With Luciani as to the direction of the rotation .
accidentally happened in Exp. l ) , a tract of degeneration was traced on the cerebe side of the lesion as far as the middle lobe .
The observations of Loewenthal ( 31 ) , Auerbach ( 32 ) , Mott ( 33 ) , and Tooth in have shown that the antero-lateral ascending tract of Gowers ( so-called " venj cerebellar bundle7 ' ) may be followed through the medulla and pons into the medulr velum of the superior peduncle , and thence into the middle lobe of the cerebel 'm In confirmation of this , we may mention that in a case of hemisection of the sm| cord , we also were able to trace a tract of degeneration in the superior pedu\#187 ; le which could be followed into the inferior portion of the middle lobe .
The degeneration which we have traced into the cerebellum in the medullary vjlm after section of the superior peduncle corresponds in position to the tract descoed by these observers , which is doubtless therefore to be regarded as the upard continuation of Gowers ' tract .
( 2 .
) The Middle Cerebellar Peduncle .
The degenerations following division of the middle cerebellar peduncle r\lt ; essentially the same as those following extirpation of the lateral lobe , which a ?
f been described above ( p. 737 ) .
Here also the degeneration was solely efferent from the cerebellum , and constec of partial degeneration and diminution in number and size of the superficial andleei transverse fibres of the pons on the side of the lesion , and atrophy of the nileu pontis on the opposite side .
( Plate 68 , figs. 3 and 4 .
) In order to ascertain the existence of a direct ponto-cerebro-cerebellar tract b-wa of the middle peduncle , the portion of the frontal lobe in front of the excitable aiaft the head and eyes , determined by preliminary electrical exploration , was extimte on the left side .
Exp. 27 .
Macaeus rhesus .
June 3rd , 1893 .
The animal presented no symptoms as a result of the lesion , and was killl si weeks after the operation .
Although a small area of degeneration was present in the innermost part .
t crus cerebri on the side of the extirpation , there was no obvious alteration \#166 ; size of the cerebellar hemispheres , nor could we detect any signs of degene a \gt ; !
in the middle peduncle or transverse fibres of the pons .
We purpose , howt continuing our researches on this subject .
( 3 .
) The Inferior Cerebellar Peduncle , By this is meant the external portion as already described .
Section \lt ; 1 peduncle was followed by secondary degeneration in two directions : ( a. ) To the inferior olivary body of the opposite side .
THE cerebellum and its peduncles IN MONKEYS .
755 Into the cerebellum .
It is unnecessary to recapitulate here the system which has already been ed in detail ( p. 738 ) , and which has been designated , by reason of its connections rection of degeneration , the cerebello-olivary system .
The structures which o atrophy after division of the restiform body are , therefore , the external | gygtem of fibres on the side of lesion , and the inferior olivary body on the ie side .
The fibres which degenerate towards the cerebellum lie in the lateral lobe d to the corpus dentatum anteriorly , and form a highly characteristic fan-area of sclerosis , seen in Plate 69 , fig. 5 , a.e.t. This large tract , the ascending lar system , as will be described subsequently ( p. 756 et seq. ) , is formed by the cerebellar tract and those from the clavate and cuneate nuclei , and appears to the cortex of the lateral and middle lobes .
[ es C. Experiments upon the Posterior Tubercles of the Medulla Oblongata .
( 1 .
) Destruction of the Left Nucleus Clavatus , 58 .
Macacus rhesus , male .
April 5th , 1892 .
3 tubercle was readily exposed by trephining the occipital bone , dividing the to-atloid ligament and removing the arch of the atlas .
It was destroyed by ilvano-caustic knife .
i monkey recovered rapidly from the operation and on attempting movement ited a tendency to fall backwards to either side ; there was also a considerable e of swaying of the body on exertion .
On progression , the movements of the were of a slightly sprawling nature .
The head was retracted , the chin being ted to the left .
The knee-jerks were equal and well marked , ecial attention was directed to the state of cutaneous sensibility .
Two houis the operation clear evidence was obtained , in response to the usual tests , of the tion of tactile and painful sensibility , and the sense of localisation seemed in no impaired .
These observations were amply confirmed upon the following day .
a the third day the slight disturbance of equilibrium previously observed had to aat extent passed off ; and at the end of a week it was difficult to distinguish it 1 a normal monkey .
It was very active , climbed readily and jumped amongst the 13 in the cage as easily as its companions .
On one or two occasions , when shaking tf , it was observed to lose its balance slightly .
, but never fell over .
It was killed weeks after the operation .
Autopsy , \#151 ; Microscopic examination of the medulla at the level of the clavate amouj tubercle showed that the lesion was entirely limited to this structure .
The of destruction is indicated in Plate 68 , fig. 5 , In a second case ( Exp. 29 , Macacus rhesus , February 11th , 1893 ) , both elav tubercles were destroyed , the left to a much greater extent than the right la r case also there was a transient tendency to fall backwards to either side .
The was sprawling , but the animal was able to run easily across the floor and climb T lattice-work of the cage .
Repeated examination failed to detect any defect f cutaneous sensibility or localisation of impressions .
At the end of a week it had nearly regained its normal equilibrium .
o occasionally showing a little instability when excited or hurried .
It was killed n weeks after the operation .
The lesions were found limited to the clavate nu\lt ; \gt ; i The resulting degenerations are figured on Plate 69 , fig. 2 .
( 2 .
) Destruction of the Nucleus Cuneatus .
Exp. 30 .
Macacus sinicus .
February 15th , 1893 .
This nucleus was exposed in the same manner as the clavate nucleus , and destrcsd by means of the galvano-cautery .
The monkey recovered rapidly from the operation .
On progression there m a slight tendency to fall backwards and towards the right side , which only lasted f a few hours .
The gait presented the usual slightly sprawling character .
Although it was able to move about freely , it generally clung to some support when resting .
In this case also there was no evidence of any defect in the perception or localisaon of tactile or painful impressions .
The symptoms passed off towards the end of a week .
The animal succumbed to diarrhoea a month after the operation .
Autopsy.\#151 ; The microscopic examination showed that the cuneate tubercle had sen destroyed , " without any implication of the adjoining clavate tubercle .
In a second case ( Exp. 22 , April 12th , 1892 ) in addition to the eomfete destruction of the left cuneate tubercle , its upward prolongation into the restihn body was also destroyed .
The symptoms following this lesion have been already described ( p. 749 ) .
It is only necessary to add here that there was an entire absence of any impaired of cutaneous sensibility on either side .
( Plate 69 , fig. 4 , X. ) Degenerations following Lesion of the Tubercles .
The degenerations following destruction of the clavate and cuneate tubercles traced in two directions :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Into the restiform body .
llj \lt ; ( 2 .
) Through the internal and middle arcuate fibre-systems to the inter-obr ) layer and mesial fillet , f\amp ; E cEftEBfiLLtjM aKd its Peduncles in monkeys .
( 1 .
) The Inferior Cerebellar Peduncle or Restiform Body .
sxamination of the constitution of the restiform body by the myelination seems to show that it is composed of several tracts , which are enumerated hterew ( 17 ) in the order of their myelination , as follows :\#151 ; The fibres of the direct cerebellar tract .
Fibres from the nucleus cuneatus of the same side .
Fibres from the nucleus lateralis of the same side .
Superficial arcuate fibres from the nuclei of the posterior columns of the e side .
The arcuate fibres from the inferior olivary body of the opposite side .
These iiyelinate during the last month of intrauterine life .
have been able , by the degenerative method , to differentiate the following n the restiform body of monkeys :\#151 ; The cerebello-olivary system .
The direct cerebellar tract .
Fibres from the clavate nucleus of the same side .
Fibres from the cuneate nucleus of the same side .
ie CerebeMo-olivary System has already been described ( p. 739 ) and considered as the great efferent channel of the inferior peduncle .
\e direct Cerebellar Tract .
i , result of hemisection of the spinal cord above the lumbar enlargement , ve followed this tract as a partially sclerosed area through the upper 3 of the cord in the position usually assigned to it ; viz. , at the periphery of the interior to the posterior cornu .
At the decussation of the pyramids , it lies it of the ascending root of the fifth nerve and the tubercle of Rolando , but l and external to the tract from the nucleus of the lateral fillet .
( Plate 67 , fig. 3 , In the lower segments of the medulla the fibres assume an oblique course , issing external and posterior to the gelatinous substance of Rolando an e ling trigeminal root , enter the lower end of the restiform body .
At first the occupies a peripheral position , but subsequently passes towards the centre , in L position it enters the cerebellum along with the fibres from the cuneate os .
Passing external to the corpus dentatum , it terminates in the middle lobe e same and also of the opposite side.* e origin of many of the fibres of this tract from the cells of Clarke s vesicular 'he termination of the direct cerebellar tract in the cerebellum has been variously stated .
dONAKow ( 23 ) , Vejas ( 13 ) , and Bechterew ( 12 ) traced it into the superior vermiform process o .
side , while Auerbach ( 32 ) and Bruce ( 16 ) have followed it to the opposite side .
vations , which have been made by Marchi 's method , show that it ends on both sides , but chiefly e opposite side of the superior vermiform processi column , originally described by Kolliker , Flechsig , and others , has been mentally confirmed by Mott ( 37 ) , who traced ( Regeneration in the direct exFt- hn tract after destruction of this group of cells .
Although the majority of the fi of the tract arise in this way from the lower thoracic segments of the cord :\#166 ; stated to receive accessions of fresh fibres from cells which , few in number the upper continuation of Clarke 's column .
The antero-lateral ascending tract of Gowers has been regarded by Loewen ?
u ( 31 ) as the ventral part of the direct cerebellar tract , but the different date at which these tracts receive their medullary sheaths , # appear to indicate a functnal differentiation .
( c. ) Fibres from the Clavate Nucleus .
This nucleus forms the superior termination of the column of Goll , which coiist largely of the direct continuations of some of the fibres of the posterior nerve rots .
Unilateral destruction of the nucleus was followed by degeneration in two tree tions :\#151 ; ( T. ) Degeneration through the restiform body of the same side into the hen lobe of the cerebellum .
( 2 .
) Complete degeneration of the internal system of arcuate fibres , and sligt \lt ; the middle system on the same side , and in the inter-olivary layer and mesial fit \lt ; the opposite side .
( Plate 68 , figs. 5 and 6 , and i.s. ) The tract in the restiform body is of small size and occupies a dorsal polio : We were able to trace it into the cerebellum lying immediately external to them from the vermiform process to DeiteRs ' nucleus .
( Plate 69 , fig. 5 , e.v.t. ) We obtained no evidence of degeneration in the opposite restiform body .
These observations confirm the existence of direct fibres from the clavate nsle to the cerebellum , as described by Edinger ( 22 ) and Bruce ( 16 ) , working V tl myelination method .
Our investigations , therefore , are in harmony with tbse Edinger ( 22 and 38 ) as to the existence of all uncrossed connection betwet t clavate nucleus and the cerebellum .
V .
Our observations show that the fibres of the column of Goll pass into tlicpw pyramidal or clavate nucleus , thence on the one hand into the internal , ant h lesser extent , into the middle arcuate system of fibres and opposite inte\#163 ; -\amp ; v* layer ; and , on the other hand , into the restiform body , through which the cortex of the cerebellum .
( d. ) Fibres from the Cuneate Nucleus .
This nucleus , which consists of two portions , external and internal , characi *S * Bechterew ( ' Neurol .
Centralbl .
, ' 1885 , p. 155 ) puts the date of myelination of the anter* ^ ascending tract at the commencement of the eighth month of foetal life , while the direct cerebel is already medullated by the fifth month ( Bruce ) .
the cerebellum and its peduncles IN MONKEYS .
759 liffererice in the size and shape of the nerve cells , receives the direct fibres from sterior roots of the upper cervical region of the spinal cord.# truction of this nucleus was attended by the following degenerations :\#151 ; Through the restiform body into the cerebellum of the same side .
In the middle system of arcuate fibres , and , to a small extent , of the internal , e fibres of the same side ; and in the inter-olivary layer and mesial fillet of the te side .
re was no degeneration through the superficial arcuate fibres to the opposite rm body .
It is stated by Bechterew ( 35 ) that crossed fibres from the nucleus , us are interrupted in the opposite arciform nucleus , which may account for non-appearance in the opposite restiform body .
The tract , which occupies lar position to that from the clavate nucleus in the restiform body , could be through the medulla of the cerebellum towards the cortex of the lateral and 3 lobes ( Plate 69 , fig. 5 ) .
2 .
The Fillet Systems .
may now consider the tracts which enter into the composition of the fillet or sous ( Schleife ) .
s name has been applied to two independent tracts , the mesial and the lateral , \gt ; f which have formed the subject of our experimental investigation .
the Mesial Fillet ( obere Schleife ) .
3 mesial fillet has been stated by some observers to degenerate in a descending ion ( von Monakow ( 39 ) , Flechsig and Hosel ( 40 ) , Hosel ( 41 ) , Homisn ( 42 ) , ika ( 43 ) ) ; by others in an ascending direction ( Vejas ( 13 ) , Bossolymo ( 44 ) , sr ( 45 ) , MiuRA ( 46 ) ) ; while others have described it as degenerating in both tions ( Meyer ( 45 ) , Bruce ( 16 ) ) .
consequence of the diversity of opinion as to the direction in which the fillet aerates , both its origin and its termination have been variously stated by 'vers .
Those who have observed its degeneration in a descending direction , ate its origin in the cerebral cortex in close relation to that of the pyramidal s , while others look upon this region as its termination .
Mendel ( 47 ) considers the fillet springs from the cells of the grey matter forming the wall of the third ricle ; while its origin somewhere above the level of the subthalamic region is jested in the description given by Wltkowski ( 48 ) , Dejerine ( 49 ) , and m ( 16 ) .
'ne point is all but universally admitted , viz. , the method in which the fillet is \#187 ; osed in the medulla oblongata , whether this be regarded as its origin or its termir Sherrington ( 30 ) has pointed out that the majority of the root fibres of the second cervical nerve r external cuneate nucleus .
mcccxoiv.\#151 ; b. ' 5 e Dits .
D. EERRIER AND W. A. TURNER ON LESIONS OF nation .
The fillet fibres forming the inter-olivary layer are continuous across t raphe as deep arcuate fibres to the clavate and cuneate nuclei of the opposite si\lt ; with the nerve cells of which they are in relation .
Some investigators have described certain other connections of the fillet , e.g w the inferior olivary body of the same side ( Meynert ( 50 ) , Roller , ( 51 ) , Mendel ( 4| .
with the corpus trapezoides ( Freud ( 52 ) ) ; with the anterior ground bundlesi the spinal cord ( Hom^n ( 42 ) , Spitzka ( 43 ) ) ; with the " fasciculus solitarii " ( Spitzka ( 43 ) ) ; and with the middle lobe of the cerebellum ( Marceti ( 2 ) ) .
In " course towards the cerebrum , the fillet is said to receive accessions of fibres from , ie nuclei of the sensory cranial nerves ( Roller ) , from little clumps of nerve else scattered in its course\#151 ; the " fillet flock " of Roller ; and from the nucleus reticul a tegmenti pontis ( Bechterew ( 53 ) ) .
Our own investigations have determined the following relations of the mesial fbt .
Origin.\#151 ; The fibres which form the fillet arise from the clavate and internal cuntte nuclei .
Unilateral destruction of these nuclei separately was followed by ascentig degeneration in the fillet of the opposite side , which we traced as far as the Lb-thalamic region .
Each nucleus gives off from its ventral aspect a series of ires known respectively as internal and middle arcuate fibres .
As the post-pyramida oi clavate nucleus has its greatest development distal , or caudad to , the cuneate nuclis the internal arcuate fibres arising therefrom attain their maximum development hrei down in the central axis than the middle arcuate system .
We have found that the degeneration of the internal arcuate fibres resulting m destruction of the clavate nucleus occupies a more distal and ventral situation imh\lt ; opposite inter-olivary layer than the degeneration of the middle arcuate fibres on the internal cuneate nucleus ( Plate 68 , fig. 6 , and Plate 69 , fig. 2 ) .
The portion oitln fillet lying ventral to the inferior olivary body , and separating it from the ant"to pyramid , is formed by the most distal of the internal arcuate fibres arising fromth clavate nucleus .
The inter-olivary layer is , therefore , composed of two sets of fires the distal and ventral set arising from the clavate nucleus , the proximal and desa from the internal cuneate nucleus of the opposite side .
Flechsig and others av shown that the arcuate fibres from the cuneate nucleus medullate at a much e.'lit period than those from the clavate nucleus .
These two sets of fibres eventually itfii mix to a certain extent , for , in sections through the pons Varolii , after indivius destruction of these nuclei , normal fibres were observed scattered throughouith degenerated area , although those from the respective nuclei retain , to some fS3\#163 ; # their relative ventral and dorsal position ( Plate 69 , figs. 3 and 5 , i.s. ) .
The fibres , which degenerate after destruction of the clavate and cuneate nucle ai not confined to the inter-olivary layer proper , but include some which lie vQiw and externally to the olive , as well as many which appear to occupy the hiluitt dl ( Plate 69 , fig. 2 ) , There was no atrophy of the cells of the corpus dentatum olivse .
the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
arcuate fibres , as they pass through the formatio reticularis grisea , are seen to ge towards the middle line , but , as soon as the raph6 is crossed , they bend at a tngle and pass up in the long axis .
rs"'_The fillet , formed in the inter-olivary layer in the manner described , was \#166 ; traced through the upper part of the medulla , at the proximal margin of which ed amongst the fibres of the corpus trapezoides , without forming any connection his structure .
By means of the degenerative method the fillet is very sharply 1 from the posterior longitudinal bundle and central tegmental tract , which are ed lying respectively dorsally and externally ( Plate 69 , fig. 5 , m.f. ) .
At the upper l of the pons Varolii , both the shape and the position of the fillet are altered .
I of a compact strand of fibres cut transversely in frontal sections , it forms a r layer of fibres cut obliquely ( Plate 70 , fig. 1 , It is said by some observers E and others ) to give fibres by the lateral fillet to the posterior corpora quadri-i , but we have been unable to trace any such connection .
The portion of the ying mesial to the nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis is continued upwards in , me relative position , but we have been unable to trace it beyond the roots of ird cranial nerve .
The remainder passes towards the anterior quadrigeminal .
Fibres are given off to the nates and they can be traced up to , but not rh , the decussation dorsal to the Sylvian aqueduct .
From the fact that no eration could be traced across the middle plane , we assume that the fillet fibres l the ganglia on the same side as that to which they have been traced , thus ishing a cross relation between the anterior tubercles of the corpora quadri-a and the posterior columns of the spinal cord ( Plate 70 , fig. 2 , m.f. ) .
5 remainder of the fillet may still be traced onwards to the subthalamic region , ad in size , lying external to the red nucleus of the tegment , but we have been e to trace this portion beyond the outer and ventral part of the optic thalamus a 70 , fig. 3 , mf ) .
3 have not obtained any corroboration of a direct ascent to the cerebral cortex as by Flechsig and Hosel ( 40 ) .
Flechsig ( 54 ) was formerly of opinion that the was broken in its continuity by the intervention of cells in the optic thalamus.* view is also confirmed by the observations of Singer and Munzer ( 54 ) , who l atrophy of the opposite fillet as far as the optic thalamus after destruction of uneate nucleus .
as much as we have found that destruction of the nuclei of the posterior nns is not followed by any defects of sensibilty , we would argue that the tracts h spring from these nuclei and form the fillet are ' not the path of sensation \gt ; er .
The observations of Mahaim ( ' Arcb .
f. Psych .
, ' vol. 25 , p. 343 ) appear to confirm the view that ' llet is broken by the intervention of cells in the ventral portions of the optic thalamus , August , ( b. ) The Lateral Fillet(untere Schleife ) .
During the course of our experiments upon the cerebellun , the lateral fillet accidentally wounded in one instance , viz. , in Exp. 5 , in which the left Jat"\ lobe was extirpated .
Resulting from this lesion , as has been pointed out on n % a tract of degeneration was traced through the lower portion of the pons and ^ medulla oblongata into the lateral column of the spinal cord , where its position relations have been already described and figured .
On examining sections from i8 case above the lesion , it was found that the lateral fillet had also undergone deg*e i ; ation upwards as far as the posterior corpus quadrigeminum on the same side:ad that the so-called nucleus of this structure chiefly on the mesial aspect was so degenerated ( Plate 67 , fig. 6 , p.c.q.).A more careful examination of the lesion blf showed that in addition to the injury to the fibres of the lateral fillet , its nudua ( nucleus lemnisci lateralis ) was also destroyed ( Plate 67 , fig. 6 , In order to investigate these points more in detail , the lateral fillet was submied to special experimentation .
For this purpose it was exposed by the method emplied to divide the superior cerebellar peduncle .
By careful retraction of the cereblar folia , the lateral fillet was displayed where it forms the lateral wall of the tegmemm pontis in its ascent towards the posterior corpus quadrigeminum and divided trais-versely .
Exp. 31 .
Macacus rhesus .
April 18th , 1893 .
The symptoms following this lesion were essentially the same as those following removal of the lateral , lobe of the cerebellum .
After one month the animal was killed and the brain prepared for examinatio by Marchi 's method .
The fillet had been divided above the level of the nucleus lemnisci and degenerriors was traced into the testis on the same side .
No degeneration wras observed tooass down into the pons or medulla .
Exp. 32 .
Macacus rhesus .
June 7th , 1893 .
In this case the lesion ( also on the left side ) was made somewhat lower and deper so as to destroy the nucleus lemnisci as far as possible .
Examination by My \#174 ; method , after the animal had lived fifteen days , revealed degeneration mtwc directions : upwards into the posterior corpus quadrigeminum , and downward\#174 ; 1^ the pons and medulla oblongata and lateral column of the spinal cord on lesion .
The tract in the pons , medulla , and cord occupied the position aliadj described above ( p. 742 ) .
In further confirmation of these observations , we found that in Exp. 18 , where t i middle cerebellar peduncle was divided , the tract from the nucleus of the latci^l had been injured where it lies immediately mesial and ventral to the motor the cerebellum and its peduncles in MONKEYS .
763 f the fifth nerve .
Consequent upon this lesion , the tract was clearly traced lateral column of the spinal cord .
There was no upward degeneration of the filet itself , nor was the nucleus lemnisci lateralis involved in the lesion , i observations show that from the nucleus of the lateral fillet there emerge two \gt ; no passing upwards , as the lateral fillet , to the posterior corpus quadrigeminum , @r downwards through the pons Yarolii and medulla oblongata into the lateral of the spinal cord .
Series D.\#151 ; The Eelations of the Fifth Nerve .
ig the course of our investigations upon the middle and inferior cerebellar es , there was observed , in addition to the symptoms due to the lesion of the e such , more or less anaesthesia in the region of distribution of .
the fifth nerve on the same side ; and , upon microscopic examination of the medulla ta and pons Varolii , degeneration of the roots of this nerve was detected , ecial series of experiments was , therefore , undertaken with the object of inves-r the central connections of this nerve , including the so-called cerebellar f some authors .
This comprised :\#151 ; section of the sensory division of the nerve between the Gasserian ganglion and face of the pons Yarolii ( Exps. 33 , 34 , and 35 ) .
[ ntrapontine section of the motor root .
This was effected in two instances the performance of another experiment ( Exps. 5 and 13 ) .
Section of the ascending root of the nerve in its course in the medulla oblon-Exps .
23 and 24)* Destruction of the dorso-lateral aspect of the medulla oblongata , involving the ing root and the tubercle of Eolando ( Exps. 36 to 39 inclusive ) , have reserved for future description the consideration of the symptoms fol-f these experimental lesions , and confine ourselves here to the degenerations .
Degenerations following Section of the Sensory Division between the Gasserian Ganglion and the .
a result of this lesion , degeneration was traced through the stump of the nerve he lateral region of the pons Yarolii ( Plate 70 , fig. 4 , Y. ) .
From this point it was Lie followed through the lower portion of the pons , medulla oblongata , and 2al portion of the spinal cord as far as the level of the second cervical neive-(Plate 69 , figs. 4 and 5 , Y. as .
) .
ie bulk of the fibres of the sensory division , after passing amongst the fibres of niddle cerebellar peduncle , bend distally directly into the " ascending root , a* un number , however , appear to pass into and terminate in the so-called sensory eus of the fifth ( convolutio guinti ) .
The root diminishes in size as it passes towards the spinal cord .
Relatively few fibres are given off from the root \amp ; the substantia gelatinosa into the reticular formation of the medulla .
At thJv where the gelatinous substance expands into the tubercle of Rolando , th ; becomes flattened , so as to form a capsule of white matter on the external ^ anterior surface of the tubercle ( Plate 70 , fig. 6 , At this place the greater nn f of the fibres of the root bend at a right-angle and pass through the gelatinous \amp ; stance into the grey matter of the posterior horn .
Here they form a network of ^ medullated nerve fibres , which we have found atrophied when the ascending ml sclerosed { ibid. , V. as .
) .
This network forms the terminal arhorescence of the fises of the roots and their collaterals , but the cells of the posterior horn itself did ot appear to have undergone atrophy after section of the nerve .
It was not possle to trace degeneration beyond the medullated network in which the fibres appeato terminate .
To summarize the changes following section of the sensory division , there ^ observed :\#151 ; ( a. ) Degeneration and atrophy of the fibres entering the so-called sensory nucms of the fifth nerve .
( 6 .
) Degeneration and sclerosis of the so-called " ascending " root as far as the secnc cervical nerve-root .
( c. ) Degeneration and atrophy of the fibres which pass from this root througkh gelatinous substance into the posterior horn of grey matter .
It was specially noted that after section of this root the so-called " descending " oo of the fifth nerve remained intact .
Similar changes were found following lesion of the ascending root in its lira medullary course , but only below the seat of the lesion ; while , as a result of deslue tion of the postero-lateral aspect of the medulla ( tubercle of Rolando ) , no degeneraioi was traced in the course of the root above the lesion .
The descending nature of the degeneration of the so-called ascending root olfch fifth nerve , which we have observed , is in harmony with the observation c Bechterew ( 55 ) and Bregmann ( 56 ) , wdio likewise traced it after section o:th nerve between the Gasserian ganglion and the brain .
Tooth ( 57 ) and Sherringjn have also confirmed the same fact .
The general statement may be made here , that the symptoms which folk-section of this root consisted of anaesthesia to all forms of sensibility in the re supplied by the fifth cranial nerve .
In this respect it compared with division-** posterior spinal root .
Lenhossek ( 58 ) and Tooth ( 57 ) have shown that the fibres of the ascending-oc of the fifth nerve are analogous to the middle group of fibres entering the spinal 01 * Reference is made by Tooth in his paper ( 'Journal of Physiology , ' Supplement , 1892 , P^ ' to our observations , to whom they had been privately communicated .
They are also referred * Sherrington ( 30 ) , . . .
THE CEREBELLUM AND ITS PEDUNCLES IN MONKEYS .
765 posterior roots , which fibres bear the same relation to the substantia gelatmosa as those of the ascending root do to that of the medulla.* ( 2 .
) Intrapontine Section of the Motor Root .
was followed by atrophy of the so-called descending root , which is traceable as the anterior quadrigeminal bodies , and by atrophy of the vesicular cell-which lie along the crescentic mesial aspect of the root in the outer portion sylvian grey matter , from which the fibres of the roots are said to arise .
iave found atrophy of this root after the following lesions :\#151 ; Destruction of the motor root in the tegment of the pons ( Exps. 5 and 18 ) .
Section of the descending root itself where it lies under the mesial aspect of erior cerebellar peduncle ( Exps. 15 and 17 ) .
atrophy of the fibres of this root was not , according to our observations , a rative , but merely a simple atrophy .
ae case ( Exp. 17 ) , in which the changes could be noted in an early stage , the having died four days after the performance of the operation , the fibres of the jpeared diminished in size , , and , when observed in bulk , were less well stained lose of the opposite side , but there were no signs of breaking up of the medul-heath into globules of myeline , which is the characteristic feature of secondary ration .
3n examined in a later stage ( Exps. 5 , 18 ) , some weeks after the operation , the iewed as a whole , presented a very feeble staining reaction , and when examined a high power of the microscope the nerve fibres , although small , presented aal structure .
Some fibres , also , had disappeared .
In this way the spaces m the nerve fibres were considerably enlarged ( Plate 70 , fig. 5 , Plate 68 , Yd .
) .
cells on the side of the lesion were shrunken and atrophied , ire is as yet no general agreement into which division of the nerve fibres of the lding root pass .
Meynert ( 59 ) , Obersteiner ( 60 ) , Mendel ( 61 ) , and Bech-v ( 55 ) , have stated that it joins the portio-major or sensory division , while -e ( 62 ) , Forel ( 63 ) , Poniatowsky ( 64 ) , Bregmann ( 56 ) , and Bruce ( 16 ) , are of )u that it joins the portio-minor , a view to which our own observations lend \gt ; rt .
connection has also been stated to exist between the cells of the substantia ginea and the fibres of the descending root .
Mendel ( 61 ) has observed atrophy of the cells of the substantia ferruginea and of the fibres of the descending root case of old standing facial hemiatrophy .
From this observation he has regarded According to Bechterew ( 55 ) , the ascending trigeminal root is medullated in foetuses 25-28 cms .
" which period all the tracts of the spinal cord are non-medullated , with the exception of the nor ro't-zones and the antero-lateral ground bundles .
766 DRS .
D. FERRIER AND W. A. TURNER ON LESIONS OF the descending root as trophic in function .
So far as we are aware , this obge stands by itself , for Homen ( 65 ) , who especially examined this point in a case on-hemiatrophy , was unable to corroborate these observations .
( 3 .
) The so-called Cerebellar Root of the Fifth Nerve .
It is stated by Obersteiner ( 60 ) , that the sensory division of the fifth gives , r directly to the cerebellum .
This has , however , been controverted by Bechts\#174 ; ( 12 ) and Poniatowsky ( 64 ) .
The former regards the so-called cerebellar root\#174 ; strand of fibres , which passes from the superior olivary body through the ascetic root to the roof nuclei of the cerebellum .
We cannot from our own observations confirm the existence of a direct cerebllai root of the trigeminal nerve .
For after section of the nerve , extra or intra-podne we have been unable to trace any tract into the cerebellum ; and , conversely , mim failed after cerebellar extirpation to detect any degeneration in the nuclei or ro , s o the nerve .
We have already stated on p. 740 that the " direct sensory cerebellar tra\lt ; " o Edinger is , according to our observations , an efferent tract from the middle be o the cerebellum to the nucleus of Deiters .
References .
II Cervelletto .
Firenze , 1891 .
( 1 ) Brit. Med. Journ. September 23rd , 1893 , p. 680 .
( 2 ) Proc. Boy .
Soc. , vol. 53 , 1893 , p. 459 .
[ Also Proc. Boy .
Soc. , vol. 55 , No. 331 , p. 57 .
] Suir origin e decorso dei Peduncoli Cerebellari e s loi rapporti cogli altri Centri nervosi .
Firenze , 1891 .
2 ' .
Marchi 's method described in Bivist .
Speriment .
di Freniatria e di Med. Igai 1887 , 12 ; 3 .
3 .
Ferrier .
Functions of the Brain .
London , 1876 .
4 .
Muratoff .
Archiv f. Anat .
u. Physiol. , 1893 , p. 99 .
5 .
Singer and Munzer .
Denkschrift d. Akad , d. Wissensch .
Wien ; M Natur .
Klasse , vol. 55 , p. 163 .
Arbeiten , 1892 , p. 130 .
Protocol vom X. Congress fur innere Medicin .
Wiestde 1891 , p. 349 .
Ziegler 's Beitrage , vol. 11 , Hft .
1 , p. 39 , 1892 .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1882 , p. 241 .
.4 , ' Referred to by Bruce ; Illustrations of the Mid- and lJh Brain , p. 51 .
6 .
Obersteiner .
7 .
Sandmeyer .
8 .
Cramer .
9 .
Mendel .
10 .
Forel .
la .
Luciani .
lb. Bussell .
2 .
Marchi .
the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
echterew .
echterew .
ejas .
echterew .
ruce .
echterew .
'eynert .
UDDEN .
Archiv f. Anat .
u. Physiol. , 1886 , p. 185 .
Die Leitungsbahnen im Gehirn und Ruckenmark , 1894 , p. 135 .
Archiv f. Psychiatrie , 1885 , vol. 16 , p. 200 .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1885 , p. 121 .
Illustrations of the Mid- and Hind-Brain .
Edinburgh , 1892 .
Archiv f. Anat .
u. Physiol. , 1886 , p. 403 .
Referred to by Bruce , op .
cit. , p. 16 .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1882 , p. 455 .
arkschewitsch and Freud .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1886 , p. 121 .
EITERS .
Untersuchungen liber Gehirn und Ruckenmark .
Braunschweig , 1865 .
DINGER .
Zwolf Yorlesungen ii .
d. Bau .
d. nervosen Centralorgane , on Monakow .
NUFROWICZ .
[ ans Held .
1892 , p. 118 .
Archiv f. Psychiatrie , vol. 14 , p. 1 , 1883 .
Archiv f. Psychiatrie , vol. 16 , p. 711 , 1885 .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1890 , p. 481 , and Abhandlungen der math , phys .
Klasse der Konigl .
Sachs .
Gesellsch .
der Wissensch .
, vol. 18 , No. 6 , 1892 ( Separat-Abdruck ) .
'lechsig .
\gt ; ECHTEREW .
Die Leitungsbahnen im Gehirn u. Ruckenmark , 1876 .
Die Leitungsbahnen , 1894 , p. 130 .
on Monakow .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1885 , p. 265 .
on Monakow .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1889 , p. 550 .
( HERRINGTON .
jOEWENTHAL .
Auerbach .
dOTT .
CoOTH .
Bechterew .
Bechterew .
Mott .
Edinger .
Journal of Physiology , vol. 14 , p. 255 .
Rev. M^dicale de la Suisse Romande , 1885 .
Virchow 's Archiv , 1890 , vol. 121 , p. 199 .
Brain , part 58 , 1892 , p. 215 .
Brain , parts 59 and 60 , 1892 , p. 397 .
Die Leitungsbahnen , p. 68 .
Die Leitungsbahnen , p. 47 .
Brain , 1890 , p. 433 .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1885 , p. 73 .
von Monakow .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1885 , p. 265 , also Correspondenzblatt Schweizer Aerzte , 1884 , Nos. 6 and 7 .
Flechsig and Hosel .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1890 , p. 417 .
Hosel .
Hom\#163 ; n. Spitzka .
Rossolymo .
Meyer .
Archiv f. Psychiatrie , vol. 24 , p. 452 , 1892 .
Virchow 's Archiv , vol. 88 , p. 61 , 1882 .
New York Medical Record , 1884 , p. 393 .
Archiv f. Psychiatrie , vol. 21 , p. 897 , 1890 .
Archiv f. Psychiatrie , vol. 13 , 1882 , p. 1 , and vol. 17 , 1886 , Miura .
fccecxciv.\#151 ; b. p. 439 .
Ziegler 's Beitrage , vol. 11 , part 1 .
p. 91 , 1892 .
5 F 47 Mendel .
48 .
Witkowski .
49 .
DijijRiNE .
50 .
Meynert .
51 .
Roller .
52 .
Freud .
53 .
Bechterew .
54a .
Flechsig .
Neur .
Centralbl , , 1883 , p. 262 .
Archiv f. Psychiatrie , vol. 14 , 1883 , p. 410 .
Archiv .
d. Physiol. , 1890 , No. 3 , p. 558 .
Referred to by Bruce , op .
cit. , p , 43 .
Archiv f. Mikroskop .
Anatomy , vol. 19 , 1881 , p. 340 , Neur .
Centralbh , 1885 , p. 268 .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1885 , p. 337 .
The most complete paper on the myelination of the Fill 1 to be found in Konig .
Sachs .
Gesellsch .
der Wisaenh May 4th , 1885 .
The paper is entitled " Uberdie Schleifenschicht .
" A summary of it is given in the Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1885 , p. 356 , by Flechsig .
54b .
Singer and Munzer .
Denkschrift d. K. Akad .
d. Wissensch .
p. 569 .
Wien , 190 , 55 .
Bechterew .
56 .
Bregmann .
57 .
Tooth .
58 .
Lenhossek .
59 .
Meynert .
* 60 .
Obersteiner .
61 .
Mendel .
62 .
Henle and 63 .
Forel .
64 .
Poniatowsky .
65 .
Hom:en .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1887 , p. 289 .
Jahrbuch f. Psychiatrie , vol. 11 .
Reference in Neur .
Centi bl .
1893 , p. 156 .
Journ. of Physiology .
Supplement , 1892 , p. 773 .
Archiv f. Mikroskop .
Anat .
, vol. 39 , 1889 , p. 157 .
Referred to by Schwalbe , ' Lehrbuch der Neurologic/ p 180 " Central Nervous Organs " ( Dr. Hill 's Translation ) , p. 95 .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1888 , p. 401 .
Referred to by Schwalbe , Lehrbuch der Neurologie , p. 80 .
Jahrbuch f. Psychiatrie , vol. 11 .
Reference in Neur .
Jen tralbl .
, 1892 , p. 780 .
Neur .
Centralbl .
, 1890 , p. 385 Description of the Plates .
( We are indebted to Mr. J. E. Barnard for the photographs , which have in albas* been taken direct from our original sections .
) PLATE 64 .
Fig. 1 .
A transverse section of the medulla after extirpation of the left lob\#169 ; \lt ; cerebellum , made through the lower third of the inferior olivary 'od ?
Exp. 4 ; enlarged 5 diameters .
r.b. Restiform body .
On the side of the extirpation , this sift THE cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
is atrophied on its ventral and mesial aspects , the dorsal and external parts being normal .
Y. as .
The ascending root of the fifth nerve , divided into several portions by white canals , the result of atrophy of the external arcuate fibres .
i.o. The inferior olivary body considerably diminished in size on the side opposite the lesion .
The accessory olivary bodies are similarly atrophied .
l.m.t. Lateral medullary tract .
r.f. The reticular formation is stained lighter on the side of the lesion than on the opposite side , and also shows white canals normally occupied by external arcuate fibres .
The antero-lateral region of the medulla is flattened on the side of lesion : this is also seen in fig. 2 .
The posterior longitudinal bundles ( .
) and mesial fillet ( are normal .
VIII .
, as .
The ascending root of the auditory nerve .
IX .
, as .
The ascending glossopharyngeal root .
XII .
, n. The hypoglossal nucleus .
is a section through the medulla at the middle of the inferior olive from the same case , Exp. 4 ; 5 diameters .
The lettering is the same as in fig. 1 .
i , A transverse section of the medulla at the level of the inferior olivaiy body from Exp. 1\#151 ; complete cerebellar extirpation\#151 ; 4 diameters .
The lettering is the same as in figs. 1 and 2 , with the following addition :\#151 ; VIII .
The root of the auditory nerve .
4 represents a section made through the medulla oblongata at the level of the genu facialis from Exp. 1\#151 ; complete cerebellar extirpation 4 diameters .
b.c. The brachium conjunctivum completely sclerosed on both sides .
s.m.v. Superior medullary velum .
On the left-hand side of the figure the arrow points to a tract of normal fibres containing probably the upward prolongation of the antero-lateral tract of the spinal cord .
The corresponding portion on the right side is sclerosed ( see p. 753 .
) i.v.p. The inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum .
Pie .
The pyramidal tracts .
s.o. The superior olivary body .
V. and VII .
the fifth and seventh cranial nerves . .
5 .
A transverse section of the medulla from Exp. 4\#151 ; removal of the lateral lobe\#151 ; 4 diameters .
5 f 2 b.c. Brachiurn conjunctivum sclerosed on the side of the lesion s.m.v. Superior medullary velum unaffected .
s.o. Superior olivary body .
m.p. Middle peduncle .
" VII .
, g. Genu facialis .
Y. , as .
Ascending trigeminal root .
Fig. 6 represents a transverse section through the pons Yarolii from Exp. i__c plete cerebellar extirpation\#151 ; 5*5 diameters .
b. c. The sclerosed brachium conjunctivum in the tegment of the poi m. p. The middle peduncle showing sparseness of the fibres which ]8S amongst the bundles of pyramidal fibres ( pie .
) .
Ventrally it presets a flattened appearance .
n. t.p. The nucleus tegmenti pontis .
p.l.b. Posterior longitudinal bundles .
m.f. Mesial fillet .
c.t.t. Central tegmental tract .
If .
Lateral fillet .
IY .
The fourth cranial nerve .
Aq .
S. The aqueduct of Sylvius .
V. , d. Descending trigeminal root .
PLATE 65 .
Fig. L A transverse section of the pons from Exp. 4\#151 ; removal of the left laterakb of the cerebellum .
This section has been made just below the decusik brachiorum and compares with the next ( fig. 2 ) , which has been tad just above it ; 3*6 diameters .
Ac .
The normal brachium conjunctivum .
Its position on the oppsit ' side is characterized by an entire absence of fibres .
c. t.t. Central tegmental tract .
m.f.Mesial fillet .
m.p. Middle peduncle , of which SS .
represents the superficial layer Pie .
The bundles of pyramidal fibres .
a.c.q. Anterior quadrigeminal bodies .
Fig. 2 .
A transverse section of the pons from Exp. 4 .
The section has been * immediately above the decussation and represents the atrophied pednci upon the side opposite the lesion ; 4*5 diameters .
The lettering iA same as in Plate 65 , fig. 1 .
c.g.e.External geniculate body .
Fig. 3 is a section through the crura cerebri at the level of the red nuclei and the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
of the third nerve from Exp. 1\#151 ; complete cerebellar extirpation\#151 ; 4*25 diameters .
r. n. The red nuclei , atrophied upon both sides .
In addition to the atrophy of the nuclei , the brachia conjunctiva , which partly pass through them and partly lie dorso-externally ( see Plate 65 , fig. 4 ) are atrophied .
s.n. Substantia nigra .
m.f. Mesial fillet .
a.c.q. Anterior quadrigeminal bodies .
III .
Nuclei and roots of the third cranial nerve , been made through the posterior part of the optic thalamus from Exp. 5\#151 ; extirpation of the left lateral lobe\#151 ; 2*5 diameters .
r.n. and b.c. The red nucleus and brachium conjunctivum are atrophied on the side opposite the lesion ( left side of figure .
) The latter structure is seen passing dorso-externally towards the optic thalamus .
O. tli .
Optic thalamus .
P. C. Posterior commissure .
m.f. Mesial fillet .
s. n. Substantia nigra .
0 .
tr .
Optic tract .
III .
The roots of the third cranial nerve , section through the subthalamic region from the same case as the preceding ( fig. 4 , Exp. 5 ) .
It represents the continuation of the brachium from the red nucleus to the optic thalamus ; 2*5 diameters .
The lettering is the same as in the preceding figure , with the following additions :\#151 ; g.h. Ganglion habenulae .
fr .
Fasciculus retroflexus .
c.s. Corpus subthalamicum , or body of Luys .
z.i. Zona incerta .
l.l. Latticed layer , or " Gitterschicht .
" * 1 .
c. Internal capsule .
i section through the medulla from Exp. 7 , in which the middle lobe of the cerebellum was removed .
As the section has not been cut quite horizontal some structures are seen on one side which are not shown on the other ; 3 diameters .
b. c. The brachium conjunctivum .
D.n. The nucleus of Demers ( large-celled external auditory nucleus ) shown only on the right side of the figure .
c. v.t. Efferent vermiform tract , which passes from the middle lobe to .
Demers ' nucleus , and which is seen to have undergone sclerosis in this section ( see text , p. 740 ) .
772 DRS .
D. FERRIER AND W. A. TURNER ON LESIONS OF V. , a.s. Ascending trigeminal root .
VII .
, n. and VII .
The nucleus and root of the seventh nerve .
VIII .
The root of the eight nerve on which is seen the access nucleus ( a.n. ) .
m.f. Mesial fillet .
PLATE 66 .
Fig. 1 .
A frontal section through the pons from Exp. 7\#151 ; extirpation of the rnick lobe of the cerebellum\#151 ; 4 diameters .
The section presents a noral appearance .
p.q.c. Posterior quadrigeminal bodies .
If Lateral fillet .
m.f. Mesial fillet .
b.c. Brachium conjunctivum .
V. , d. Descending trigeminal root .
I V. Boot of the fourth cranial nerve .
Pie .
Pyramidal tracts .
m.p. Transverse fibres of the pons .
P.l.b. Posterior longitudinal bundles .
Fig. 2 .
Deiters ' nucleus , magnified 40 diameters , from Exp. 5 , in which the lasral lobe of the cerebellum was extirpated .
In this case the fibres and ells of the nucleus present a normal appearance .
Fig. 3 .
Deiters ' nucleus , magnified 40 diameters , from Exp. 4 lateral lobe etii-pation .
The figure shows the nucleus sclerosed as a result of trauatk degeneration .
The cells and network of fine medullated fibres avt almost entirely disappeared .
Fig. 4 .
Portion of transverse section of the spinal cord at the level of the stone cervical nerve from Exp. 7 , showing the position of the anterior tract ( vide text , p. 743 ) ; 40 diameters .
a.m.f The anterior median fissure .
a.d.t. The anterior descending tract .
a.c. The anterior cornua .
a.n.r. The anterior nerve roots .
Eiff .
5 .
A transverse section of the spinal cord at the second cervical segmQR I the case of complete cerebellar extirpation ( Exp. 1 ) , 13 diametaps text p. 742 ) .
# , p Fig 6 .
A transverse section of the spinal cord through the cervica en argemen , a case of hemisection of the spinal cord , to show the descending deen rations resulting therefrom ; 10 diameters .
c.p.t. Crossed pyramidal tract .
a.l.d.i. Antero-lateral descending tract .
the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
A transverse section of the spinal cord from the fifth dorsal segment to show the position of the tract from the lateral fillet ( Exp. IS ) ; 17 diameters .
If.t .
The lateral fillet tract .
Transverse section of the spinal cord from the second cervical segment to show the tract from the lateral fillet ( Exp. 5 ) ; 10'5 diameters .
l.f.t. The lateral fillet tract .
Transverse section at the level of the pyramidal decussation from the same case as fig. 2 , Plate 67 ; 8'3 diameters .
( This section has been reversed in mounting .
) l.f.t. The lateral fillet tract , j D.c.t.The direct cerebellar tract .
f.r. The reticular formation .
s.q.r. The gelatinous expansion forming the tubercle of Rolando .
Transverse section through the medulla at the mid-olivary region from the same case as figs. 2 and 3 ; 4*75 diameters .
The restiform body ( r.b. ) and external arcuate fibres are atrophied on the side of lesion , and the inferior olive ( i.o. ) of the opposite side , due to extirpation of the lateral lobe which was accomplished in this case ( Exp. 5 ) .
l.f.t. The lateral fillet tract is seen here occupying the dorsal portion of the lateral medullary region ; the fore part of which is occupied by the antero-lateral ascending tract ( .
) .
From the same case as the preceding .
The section has been at the level of the corpus trapezoides ; 3*2 diameters .
l.f.t. The tract from the lateral fillet is seen amongst the fibres of the corpus trapezoides ( c.^ .
) , immediately ventral to the nucleus of the seventh nerve ( VII .
, n. ) .
s.o. The superior olivary body .
V. , as .
The ascending trigeminal root .
' .
From the same case as the preceding figure .
This represents a frontal section through the pons at the level of the trochlear decussation and shows the lesion in the tegmentum pontis and lateral .fillet ; 4 diameters .
X represents the lesion of the tegmentum pontis and lateral fillet .
p.c.q. Posterior corpora quadrigemina .
IV .
The decussation of the fourth cranial nerves .
b.c. Brachium conjunctivum .
If Lateral fillet .
rmf Mesial fillet .
n.t.p.Nucleus tegmenti pontis ; on the side opposite the extirpation tins presents \amp ; n 3ipp6\amp ; T9/ DC6 of atrophy , which is not seen on tk of lesion .
c.t.t. Central tegmental tract .
PLATE 68 .
Fig. 1 .
Frontal section through the pons from Exp. 15 ; showing the extent position of the lesion of the superior peduncle ( X. ) ; 4*4 diameters .
s.m.v. Superior medullary velum .
b.c. Brachium conjunctivum .
V. , d. Descending trigeminal root .
Y. , m. Motor root of the fifth nerve .
p.l.b. Posterior longitudinal bundles .
b ig .
2 .
A frontal section through the pons and cerebellum to show the nature , eter and position of the lesion of the middle peduncle and tegmentum 3nt in Exp. 18 ; 3T diameters .
X X indicates the site of the lesion ; the lettering is the samtas the previous figures .
Figs. 3 and 4 .
Frontal sections from the same case as the preceding somewhat igh up , so as to show the changes which have taken place in the trarrer fibres ot the pons as a result of division of the middle peduele 4 diameters .
From these it is seen that the fibres have not entirely disappear , b present a diminished staining reaction and a sparseness in the grey att of the pons .
The lettering is the same as in fig. 1 , Plate 68 .
n. t.p. Nucleus tegmenti pontis .
V. , d. Descending trigeminal root somewhat atrophied on theiae lesion , from implication of the motor root at the seat of injury ig .
( see also Plate 70 , fig. 5 , V. , d. ) .
Fig. 5 .
A transverse section of the medulla at the lower end of the inferio ] oil showing the degeneration which follows destruction of the clavate ucl\lt ; ( Exp. 28 ) ; 5*2 diameters .
x.n.cl .
These letters are placed over the anterior end of the iavi nucleus .
i.a.f Internal arcuate fibres degenerated on the side of lesion .
i.s. Inter-olivary stratum .
i.n.cu .
Nucleus cuneatus internus .
e.n.cu .
Nucleus cuneatus externus .
in.a.f , Middle arcuate fibres in part degenerated on side of the 1\lt ; 101 ) the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys . .
i.o. Inferior olivary body , y as .
Ascending trigeminal root .
Transverse section of the medulla from the same case as the preceding , somewhat higher up j 5 diameters .
i.s. Inter-olivary layer on the side opposite the lesion .
The portion of this stratum which separates the pyramids from the olive is chiefly degenerated .
In all respects the lettering is the same as in the preceding figure .
XII .
The hypoglossal nucleus .
PLATE 69 .
A transverse section from the same case as the preceding at a slightly higher level ; 4 diameters .
From this it is seen that only the ventral portion of the inter-olivary stratum is degenerated , the dorsal being unaffected .
Owing to the section being too deeply stained this is not so clearly seen as in the following figure ( fig. 2 , Plate 69 ) , where both clavate nuclei only had been destroyed .
r.b. Restiform tract , in the dorsal portion of which is seen a small area of degeneration on the side of the lesion .
e.a.f. External arcuate fibres or cerebello-olivary system .
VIII .
Root of the auditory nerve .
A transverse section of the medulla oblongata at the middle of the inferior olivary body from a case in which both clavate nuclei had been destroyed ( Exp. 29 ) ; 5*5 diameters .
i.s. The inter-olivary stratum degenerated mainly in its ventral portion .
The deeply-stained dorsal portion being formed by the middle arcuate fibres from the cuneate nucleus .
V. , as .
The ascending trigeminal root .
On the left-hand side of the figure this structure is sclerosed owing to the trunk of the neive having been divided between the Gasserian ganglion and the brain .
Passing through it are the cerebello-olivary fibres .
This portion of the figure , therefore , is the converse of Plate 64 , fig. 1 , V.\gt ; VIII .
, asc .
Ascending root of the auditory nerve .
IX .
, asc .
Ascending root of the glossopharyngeal nerve .
3- Frontal section through the medulla and cerebellum at the level of the eighth nerve from the same case as fig. 1 , Plate 69 , and figs. 5 and 6 , Plate 68 , 3*5 diameters .
m.J. Mesial fillet , the ventral portion only of which is completely .
degenerated on one side , although scattered fibres may be detected in the dorsal segment .
deccxciv.\#151 ; b. 5 g The lettering is the same as in the preceding figures .
b.c. Brachium conjunctivum .
c.d.c. Corpus dentatum cerebelli .
VII .
, n. Nucleus of the seventh nerve .
Fig. 4 .
Transverse section of the medulla from a case in which the cuneate nucl-was destroyed ( Exp. 22 ) , as well as the restiform tract ; 4 diameters .
X represents the lesion of the cuneate nucleus .
i.s. The inter-olivary stratum on the side opposite the lesion presen a degenerated appearance , but in this case the degeneration is cl % confined to the dorsal portion of the mesial fillet , the ventral \rt showing comparatively little affection , as it is formed , as shown inte text , p. 760 , by the internal arcuate fibres from the clavate nudes .
m.a.f. The middle arcuate fibres .
These have disappeared on the de of the lesion , as also have the external arcuate fibres ( r.f. ) .
Owing to the fact that the restiform body was also destned immediately anterior to the nucleus , the external arcuate has ( , e.a.f. ) on the same side and the opposite inferior olive ( i.o. ) arelso atrophied .
r.f. The reticular formation .
V. , asc .
The ascending trigeminal root is sclerosed on the left sidets a result of division of the nerve between the Gasserian gangliotand the surface of the pons ; through it pass healthy external anate fibres .
On the side of the lesion it is normal , and through i are seen the spaces left by the atrophied external arcuate fibres .
Fig. 5 .
A frontal section from the same case as the preceding at the level of the xtt nerve nuclei ; 3 diameters .
The lettering is similar to the preceding .
mf .
Mesial fillet .
Here the degeneration in the dorsal portion oithii structure is well seen j while in the cerebellum , on the righ^ si\#174 ; \#174 ; the figure , a large fan-shaped sclerosed area formed chid/ bj the direct fibres from the cuneate nucleus , is observed .
Owing ! .
tw fact that the restiform body was also destroyed m this cast t sclerosed area contains the fibres from the clavate tubercle , an al\#187 ; the direct cerebellar tract .
, e.v.t. Efferent vermiform tract , or tract to Deiters ' nucleus .
a.c.t. Ascending cerebellar system .
^ _ V. , as .
The sclerosis of the ascending trigeminal root is distmc on the left side , as a result of section of the nerve hetwee Gasserian ganglion and the pons ( see also figs. 2 and 4 , Plat s.o. Superior olivary body .
c.d.c. Fore-end of the corpus dentatum cerebelli .
the cerebellum and its peduncles in monkeys .
V. The trunk of the fifth nerve .
VII .
, n.Nucleus of the seventh nerve .
A section through the pons and posterior corpora quadrigemina from a case of destruction of the clavate nucleus ; 4*3 diameters .
b.c. Brachium conjunctivum .
m.f. Mesial fillet .
This presents a partially degenerated appearance throughout , owing to an intermingling of the fibres from the clavate and cuneate nuclei .
m.p. Middle cerebellar peduncle .
If Lateral fillet , and p.c.q. posterior corpora quadrigemina .
V.d. Descending trigeminal root .
n.t.p. Nucleus tegmenti pontis .
PLATE 70 .
Frontal section of the upper part of the pons from Exp. 22 , in which the cuneate nucleus was destroyed ; enlarged 4*5 diameters .
m.f. Mesial fillet , degenerated on the left side .
d.b.c. Decussation of the brachia .
l.f. Lateral fillet . ? .
c.q. Posterior quadrigeminal bodies .
a. c.q. Anterior quadrigeminal bodies .
Frontal section at the level of the anterior quadrigeminal bodies from a case in which the clavate nucleus was destroyed ( Exp. 28 ; 4 diameters .
The lettering is the same as in the preceding case ; the mesial fillet is degenerated on the right side .
b. c. The brachia conjunctiva above their decussation . ? .
g.e. External geniculate body .
s.n. Substantia nigra .
p.c. Pes cruris .
Frontal section from the same case as the preceding ; 2*75 diameters mf .
The mesial fillet on the left side has disappeared .
O.th .
Optic thalamus .
r.n. Bed nuclei .
fr .
Portion of the fasciculus retro-fiexus .
1* Frontal section through the pons and cerebellum from a case of section of the fifth nerve between the Gasserian ganglion and the brain ( Exp. 33 ) , enlarged 3 diameters .
V. Stump of the fifth nerve on the left side .
V. , s.n. So-called sensory nucleus of the fifth nerve .
V. , as .
Ascending trigeminal root .
m.f. Mesial fillet degenerated on both sides from elavate nuclei .
YU .
Genu facialis .
YI .
Sixth cranial nerve .
c.d.c. Corpus dentatum cerebelli .
i.v.p. Inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum .
Fig. 5 .
Frontal section of the pons from Exp. 5 , where , in addition to the extirp^ of the lateral lobe , the motor root of the fifth was involved in the W which destroyed the nucleus lemnisci lateralis ( fig. 4 , Plate 69 , \ .
enlarged 4 diameters ( see also Plate 68 , fig. 4 , Y. , Y. , d. The descending trigeminal root is atrophied on the right si:* , oi the figure .
O b.c. Brachium conjunctivum , atrophied on the right side of the fig-e , p.c.q. Testes .
a.c.q. Nates .
m.f. Mesial fillet .
If'Lateral fillet .
c. t.t. Central tegmental tract .
Fig. 6 .
Transverse section of the pyramidal decussation from Exp. 34 , in which- tli fifth nerve was divided between the Gasserian ganglion and the braii ; 1 diameters .
Y. , as .
Ascending trigeminal root , atrophied on the left side .
s.g.r. Tubercle of Bolando ; the fine fibres passing through are Id phied on the left side .
For further illustration of the degeneration of the ascending roc , s\lt ; Plate 69 , figs. 2 , 4 , and 5 , Y. , as .
PLATE 71 .
Fig. 1 .
Photograph from a case of complete cerebellar extirpation .
Exp. 1 ( text , p 24 Fig. 2 .
Ditto .
Exp. 2 ( text , p. 725 ) .
Fig. 3 .
Basal aspect of the brain from a case of removal of the lateral lobe , hp* ( text , p. 727 ) .
* - ' Fig. 4 .
The same case , showing the extent of removal of the cerebellum from m ( text , p. 727 ) .
: : ' s ' : ; : M Fig. 5 .
' Basal aspect of the brain from Exp. 5 .
Extirpation of the lateral lobetfl .
p. 728 ) .
' .
'I Fig. 6 .
Dorsal aspect of the same case ( text , p. 728 ) .
Fig. 7 .
Case of removal of the lateral lobe .
Exp. 6 ( text , p. 730 ) .
Fig. 8 .
Extirpation of the middle lobe .
Exp. 7 ( text , p. 731 ) .
destruction of k

