209 Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
Addendum on the Pyramidal Tracts .
By C. S. Sherrington .
The spinal degeneration resulting from ablation in the precentral gyrus of the above-mentioned " hand ''-area , discovers in the anthropoid cord the human feature of a perfectly large direct ventral ( Tiircksbiindel ) as well as crossed pyramidal tract .
The relative sizes of these tracts seem about the same as in man .
The homolateral or uncrossed lateral division of the pyramidal tract is also well seen .
The crossed pyramidal degeneration from the hand area lesion is clearly traceable down to the lumbar region of the cord .
In the lowest brachial segments there is obvious degeneration of fibres in the grey matter of the ventral horn of the crossed side .
Some of the large nerve-cells there seem also degenerate .
A lesion at the top of the gyrus precentralis gave no ventral pyramidal tract degeneration , and only a very slight uncrossed lateral pyramidal , although an extensive crossed lateral , that descends the whole length of the cord .
" Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
Preliminary Report of the Observations made at Ayer Karoe , Sawah Loento , p Sumatra .
" By H. F. Newall , M.A. Received October 30 , \#151 ; i Read at Joint Meeting of the Royal and Royal Astronomical Societies , October 31 , 1901 .
This expedition was one of those organised by the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee of the Royal Society and Royal Astronomical Society , funds being provided from a grant made by the Government Grant Committee .
It was originally contemplated that the party should consist of Professor H. H. Turner and myself , and that we should occupy a station inland in Sumatra ; but when the former found himself unable join in the expedition , it was decided not to appoint another observer in his stead , nor to fix upon the station to be occupied until there was an opportunity of learning about local conditions , on the spot .
11 The expedition was to go to Padang , on the West Coast of Sumatra , and to this port I travelled in company with Mr. F. W. Dyson , who went out from the Royal Observatory , Greenwich .
It was decided that we should travel out together , prepared either to join forces at one and the same camp , or to form two camps separated by a considerable ^stance , and our ultimate decision was to depend upon information which we expected to get from the Dutch authorities .
K I had communicated with Major Muller , the Chief of the Survey 1 vol. lxix .
Q Mr. H. F. Newall .
Department at Batavia , with reference to a possible site for a camp at or near Solok ( a station about 40 miles inland on the State Railway ) , or still further eastwards near the Oembilien coalfields ; for it seemed that a station on the east side of the Barisan Mountains would be more likely to have favourable conditions of weather in May than stations on the west side , an opinion based on careful study of both Dr. van der Stok 's large work on 'Wind , Weather , \amp ; c. , in the Indian Archipelago ' ( Batavia , 1897 ) , and also of the summary published by the Dutch Indies Scientific Society over the names of Major Muller and Dr. Figee , for the information of observers .
I may say at once that the reality proved that this opinion , based on averages , was not worth much , for the local conditions seemed , at any rate in 1901 , to play a comparatively small part in the determination of weather .
The route chosen for getting to Sumatra was that Genoa , and thence by Dutch Royal Mail steamship Red Sea direct to Padang , and we are indebted to the Nederland Steamship Company for considerable reduction in fares in consideration of the scientific object of the journey .
Mr. Dyson and I and my wife left Charing Cross on March 12 , and travelled across the Continent together , and were joined at Genoa by Mr. J. J. Atkinson , who had generously volunteered to go with the expedition to Sumatra to assist in the observations and preparations , as he had done in the previous year with the Astronomer Royal 's party in Portugal .
We went on board the Dutch mail-steamer " Koningin Regentes , " and sailed from Genoa on March 14 .
The advantages of the route were that it took us in the shortest possible time direct to our port , Padang , lying on the track of the moon 's shadow , and gave us the opportunity of making the acquaintance of the Dutch astronomers , who , as we had learnt from Professor Bakhuysen , the President of the Committee charged with organising the Dutch expedition , were going out on the " Koningin Regentes and , furthermore , as the boat called at Southampton , it was possible to take the instruments , huts , \amp ; c. , on the same boat as we ourselves travelled by , without transhipment .
Mr. Dyson and I had seen to sending our cases to Southampton , and had personally put some of the more delicate instruments on board the " Koningin Regentes " on March 4 .
The large 4-prism spectrograph , which I was to use at the eclipse , was kept in use at Cambridge for observations of the Nova Persei until the day of my departure from Cambridge , March 11 , when it was dismounted and packed ; it wJ then taken across the Continent , and put on board the " Koninghi Regentes " at Genoa .
The Dutch observers , Professor W. H. Julius , Professor A. A. Nyland , and Mr. Wilterdinck , also joined the boat at Genoa , as well as a party from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Boston , consisting of Professor A. E. Burton , Professor Hosmer , Professor Harrison W. Smith , and Mr. Matthes .
Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
211 On arrival at Padang on Saturday , April 6 , we made the acquaintance of the Governor of the West Coast of Sumatra and of Major Muller , head of the Survey Department , and Mr. Delprat , the head of the State Eailways .
The Governor received us on the following Monday morning , and we recall with great pleasure the personal courtesy and friendly helpfulness which he at once extended to us .
Nothing could exceed the kindness and consideration which we experienced throughout our stay in the island from the Dutch authorities with whom it was our good fortune to come in contact .
I may here add that I took the opportunity , which was afforded me by a visit to Java after the eclipse , to express to the Governor-General of the Dutch Indies the informal thanks of the English observers for the generous assistance which had been given to them in their expedition .
We were indebted to Professor Bakhuysen , the President of the Dutch Committee , for several sets of maps of the admirable survey of the West Coast of Sumatra .
The local authorities at Padang added to our obligations by presenting us with free passes for ourselves and freight over all the railway system on the West Coast .
The Governor of the West Coast arranged that Mr. Dyson and Mr. Atkinson should make use of his steam launch to inspect possible sites for a camp on the coast in Trusan Bay , and also on an island 6 miles from the coast opposite Painan .
Mr. Delprat was able to give me information and much kind assistance in the matter of sites inland near the Oembilien coalfield , and I at once set off to Sawah Loento with introductions to Mr. van Lessen , the Chief Engineer of the mines .
Thus it came about that when Mr. Dyson and I met again at Padang on the following Thursday , April 11 , we had gained such information that we were able to decide at once that we should occupy separate camps ( i ) Mr. Dyson , together with Mr. Atkinson , on the island Aoer Gadang , assisted by H.M.S. " Pigmy , " a gunboat commanded by Lieutenant-Commander Oldham , R.N. , which , in response to an application from the Royal Society , had been told off by the Admiralty to render assistance to the observers ; and ( ii ) myself inland , on tolerably high ground , not far from Sawah Loento , the last station on the railway , at the mouth of the Oembilien coal mines , and thus quite on the east side of the Barisan Range .
Our stations were thus the most widely separated in Sumatra , Mr. Dyson being at the west end of the line , and the first of the Sumatran observers to be immersed in the moon 's shadow , whilst I was furthest inland at the east end of the line .
The rest of this report deals with my own experiences and observations .
It was with regret that I had to decline the invitation of the Boston Q 2 Mr. H. F. Newall .
observers to join forces with them ; they had chosen an excellent site on a ridge to the south of Sawah Loento , but it was at a considerable distance from the living quarters , and it seemed to me that in that tropical climate we could not afford to spend much of our forces in walking to and fro , for the somewhat extensive programme of observations would require much preparation .
Under the guidance of Mr. van Lessen , the Chief Engineer at the mines , an excellent site was found on high ground above the mines to the N.W. of Sawah Loento ; and Mr. van Lessen was good enough to put at my disposal a house close to it , which had recently been built for the use of officers of the mines , but which had not yet been occupied .
The house was close to four others in which mine-viewers were living , and , moreover , other houses were being built in their neighbourhood .
Hence the conveniences were in every respect very great , for the conditions implied that food supplies would be easily got , water was laid on , and building materials were ready to hand .
The house was built on a terrace which had been levelled on the hillside , and I decided to set up the huts and instruments within a few feet of the verandah .
I am very much indebted to Mr. van Lessen for his kind assistance in numberless ways .
Not only did he make me free to use the resources of the mines and the coolies employed there , for the purpose of setting up the huts and building piers for the instruments , but he and Mrs. van Lessen helped us in setting up house in rather unusual circumstances , by lending us furniture and in enlisting a similar kindness from the resident " Comptroller , " Mr. Sieburgh .
It is a pleasure to recall the readiness and interest with which the officers of the mines , under Mr. van Lessen 's direction , helped us in our needs .
S 2 .
Position M The station for the observations was at Ayer Karoe , at the N.Wjj end of the terrace , on which are built five houses for the overseers of the Oembilien mines .
The site is a few hundred yards from the village Doerian , along the road leading from Sawah Loento to Talawi .
The position , read off the Survey Map ( scale 1 : 20,000 ) , is longitude ; 0 ' 23 ' 30 " E. of Padang , and latitude 0 ' 39 ' 55 " S. Major Muller gave the Padang meridian as 100 ' 21 ' 55 " E. of Greenwich .
The position of the station may accordingly be taken as\#151 ; Longitude ... ... ... ... 100 ' 45 ' 25 " E. of Greenwich .
Latitude ... ... ... ... 0 ' 39 ' 55 " S. Height above mean sea-level at Padang , 1260 feet .
The spot is about 37 miles from the central line and on the north side of it .
The duration of totality predicted from the elements adopted by the 'Nautical Almanac ' was 5m 42s , instead of 6m 29s on the central line .
Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17\#151 ; 18 .
S 3 .
Time Observations .
From the top of a small hillock within two minutes ' walk of the instruments we could see the camp of the Boston expedition near Sawah Loento , at a distance of 2*7 miles ( measured on the Survey maps 1 : 20,000 ) .
Professors Burton and Hosmer were so kind as to make an arrangement by which we received time signals and so determined the errors and rates of the chronometer and watch which I had brought with me .
Professor Hosmer had a white time-ball fixed that could easily be seen against the dark background of the tropical foliage with the help of binoculars ; and it was arranged that on any day that we hung out a signal ( three white flags ) in the early morning , he would if possible drop the time-ball at 1 lh 5m 0s , again at gm qs anc[ at 11h 7m 0s .
His time observations for determining the errors and rates of his own chronometers were made with a 2|-inch portable transit and chronograph .
Mr. Hosmer gave me signals on four days between the 9th and 19th of May .
My watch\#151 ; an excellent one by Frodsham , made for the 1862 Exhibition\#151 ; was kept in exceptionally favourable conditions for good time-keeping , and its rate deduced from signals received on May 9 and 16 was +46 seconds per diem , and from May 16 and 19 was + 4'6 seconds per diem .
The rate of the chronometer ( by Crisp ) was found to have changed from + 0s-7 between the 17th and 18th to + 2S*1 between 18th and 19th , the chronometer having been moved in and out of the hut several times for the preparatory rehearsals .
The following are the times of contacts observed , those predicted from the elements given in the 1 Nautical Almanac being given foi comparison and position-angles of the contacts being also added foi convenience of record:\#151 ; Position angle .
Prediction , GLM .
T. Observed .
o hr .
min. sec. hr .
min. sec. First contact. .
253 16 5 15 16 5 31 Second .
, , 48 17 39 12 17 39 17 Third " . .
Fourth " 288 82 17 44 .
54 19 17 20 17 44 52 Not observed First contact was observed by me through the declination theodolite , the time of my call " Now " ( possibly 5 seconds late ) being noted on the Crisp chronometer by Lieutenant Briggs .
Second and third contacts are those for Dr. Wallace 's signal " Go " at beginning of totality when he was observing the disappearing current on the focussing plate of the Dallmeyer telephotographic camera ( image of sun 1*43 inches in diameter ) and for my signal " Now " given to Lieutenant Mr. H. F. tfewall Briggs and Mrs. Newall for the exposures they had to make with their respective instruments for the reappearing flash .
These two observations were recorded in terms of the metronome beats , and were connected with the chronometer readings by my noting on the chronometer the instant at which the last call of the count with the metronome was made by the time-keeper .
The metronome was adjusted to beat seconds the night before the eclipse , and as set it lost one beat in 6 minutes .
It was tested about a quarter of an hour before the eclipse , and again after the eclipse , and was found in several trials to lose between one and two beats in 6 minutes .
The photographs of the disappearing and reappearing crescent* afford a check on these signals called both by Dr. Wallace and myself , but the discussion is not yet completed .
* S 4 .
Meteorological Conditions .
The following summary may be given of the records kept between April 24 and May 22 :\#151 ; Becloudedness.\#151 ; Out of 23 days on which record was kept of the becloudedness of the sky near the zenith between 12 and 1 o'clock midday\#151 ; the eclipse occurred at 12.22 p.m , -\#151 ; 1 was absolutely free from cloud and haze ( May 1 ) .
4 were free from cloud , but more or less hazy .
8 were completely overcast .
10 were more or less cloudy ( including the day of the eclipse ) .
Temperature and Moisture.\#151 ; The temperature was recorded for wet- : and dry-bulb thermometers in the verandah:\#151 ; Time of day 6 A.M. Midday .
Erening ( about 9 p.m. ) .
Number of days on which readings were recorded . . . .
} i ?
ii i Thermometer t .
t Dry .
Wet .
Dry .
Wet .
Dry .
Wet .
J Average 72 ' 71 ' 84 ' 78 ' 76 ' 74 ' 1 Highest 76 74 86 80 77 75 j Lowest . . . .
1 69 ' ,1 67 80 74 75 i 72 Rain.\#151 ; -Becords on 21 days :\#151 ; On only 2 out of 21 days , on which record was kept , was there rain between 6 a.m. and midday .
On 8 days there was no rain .
On 13 days there was rain in the afternoon or night .
Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
Largest rainfalls recorded were:\#151 ; May 8 ... ... ... ... 1-19 inches in 40 minutes .
" 22 ... ... ... . .
1*72 " 2 hours .
S 5 .
General Programme the Observations .
The operations during the eclipse were to include\#151 ; 1 .
Taking a series of photographs of the corona with the Dallmeyer telephotographic combination , in continuation of the series obtained in many recent eclipses , under the direction of the Joint Permanent Eclipse Committee .
2 .
Taking a series of photographs of the corona with the Savart camera , used at Algiers in 1900 , for a study of the polarisation of the corona .
3 .
Taking a series of photographs of polarised images of the corona with the double-image camera , devised and used by Professor H. H. Turner in recent eclipses .
Nos. 1 , 2 , and 3 were to be done with the " double-tube camera , which had been used in many eclipses .
Professor Turner had very kindly lent me the apparatus for No. 3 , but I had most reluctantly to give up the attempt to adjust it ; the weather in the week before the eclipse was unpropitious , and 1 had to concentrate effort on completing adjustment of instruments already set up .
4 .
Taking a series of photographs of the spectrum of the chromosphere and " flash " at the beginning and end of totality , with a 4-prism spectroscope with slit , for accurate determination of wave-lengths .
5 .
Taking a photograph of the spectrum of the corona with the 4-prism spectroscope , two slits being used , to get material for the determination of the relative motion of the eastern and western parts of the corona ( rotation of the corona ) .
6 .
Taking photographs of the " flash " and corona , with a powerful objective-grating camera , using very high dispersion .
7 .
Making visual observations of the structure of the green corona ring , as viewed through another objective grating camera .
8 .
Taking photographs of the spectrum of the flash and corona with a quartz spectrograph giving small dispersion .
9 .
Making visual observations of the atmospheric polarisation with a view to detecting a change in the plane of polarisation during totality , and for the purpose of getting the information necessary for adjusting the Savart camera used in No. 2 during the eclipse .
Mr. H. F. Newall .
S 6 .
Assistance .
Throughout the preparations for the observations I received most valuable assistance from my friend Dr. L. Wallace , who travelled from Burma to Sumatra especially to help in the work of the expedition .
Arriving at Sawah Loento on April 18 , he accompanied us to Ayer Karoe , and assisted in every possible way to further the aims of the expedition from the moment of his arrival until all the instruments were packed up again on May 26 after the eclipse .
It is a great pleasure to acknowledge my deep indebtedness to him for his friendly and efficient help .
A few days before the eclipse , Lieutenant-Commander Oldham , of H.M.S. " Pigmy , was good enough to tell off Lieutenant H. D. Briggs to come ^ up to Ayer Karoe , together with two petty officers from the Pigmy , to help in the final preparations , and in the observations .
They took part in the preparatory drills and rehearsals , and gave most efficient assistance .
In the observations during the eclipse itself_ .
Dr. Wallace was in charge of the double tube camera , and gave the signals , watching the diminishing crescent of the sun upon the blue focussing plate of the Dallmeyer telephotographic camera .
Lieutenant H. D. Briggs exposed the plates for the objective-grating camera , after having assisted me in making the final adjustment with the diminishing crescent .
Mrs. Newall made exposures with the quartz spectrograph . .
1 \#153 ; ade exPosures with the 4-prism spectrograph , made observations for detecting the polarisation of the atmosphere , and observed the green coronal ring with the visual objective-grating spectroscope . .
H'kart ' Chief Stoker , and H. Taylor , Petty Officer , H.M.S. 1 " Pigmy , " counted seconds aloud from a metronome , and handed plateholders .
At 30 seconds before totality Dr. Wallace , watching the diminishing crescent of the sun , and gauging its length by a marked template which 1 supplied him with , gave a signal to Lieutenant Briggs , and at 15 seconds he called out \#171 ; Stand by .
" Hobart began counting seconds with the metronome , until Dr. Wallace gave the signal " Go , " when the disappearance of the crescent showed that totality had begunJ Then Hobart ceased counting , and Taylor began afresh , and counted steadily on to the end of the third minute ; in this count he began each minute with " one , " " two , " " three , " and Hobart called " One minute gone , " Two minutes gone , " at each new minute .
Then Hobart resumed the counting of seconds , Taylor calling the minutes up to the completion of the sixth minute , it being expected that totality would last for 5m 42s , if the prediction based on the \#171 ; Nautical Almanac ' elements were true , or for 5 " 32* if the prediction based on a recent Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , 17-18 .
discussion of eclipse observations were true , Dr. Downing , the Superintendent of the ' Nautical Almanac , ' having been good enough to write out to us in Sumatra about this result of the discussion .
It was arranged that Hobart should continue the counting of seconds after totality was finished , so that I might note on the chronometer the instant at which the final " sixty " was called .
The operations were rehearsed several times on the two days before the eclipse , and everything went of !
' as perfectly as rehearsals could make it .
In a later paragraph reference will be made to one unforeseen mishap which arose from the interference of the clouds .
S 7 .
The Day of the Eclipse .
When the sun rose and the morning mists were dispelled on the 18th\#151 ; the day of the eclipse\#151 ; the conditions seemed vastly more favourable than on any day in the previous week , during which it must be confessed we had rather a trying time , inasmuch as sunshine was needed for the final adjustment of the two spectroscopes , and it was very difficult to find moments between clouds when enough could be got .
The early hours of the morning of the 18th were occupied in completing the adjustments , which , as it turned out , were already nearly perfect , except in the case of the quartz spectrograph , as will appear in a later paragraph .
The clocks for driving the coelostat and the large spectrograph were finally rated , and we had gathered for a last rehearsal , more for the sake of establishing confidence than of adding to the instruction and drill , which had been gone through many times on the two previous days .
But about 11 o'clock , very soon after I had observed the first contact , clouds began to move up from the N.E. , and to form round the sun , and it began to be an anxious time .
I was content to dispense with the rehearsal in dumb-show , and thus avoided the risk of inadvertent exposure of the photographic plates in the dark slides , preferring to give some finishing touches to the arrangements for signals , exposures , and observations .
Nothing was lost by this procedure , and in the actual event the programme was perfectly carried out by everyone concerned , except that cloud interfered in an unforeseen way ( see S 11 , p 221 ) with my operations with the 4-prism spectrograph , thus curtailing my most important exposure by 2|- minutes , and also involving the loss of one of the exposures with the double tube .
Fifteen minutes before totality the cloud was still hanging about , and obviously forming in some places and dispersing in others .
Iris-coloured rings were seen round the diminishing crescent , showing that the clouds were water-clouds , not ice-cirrus .
Ten minutes before totality I looked into one of the spectrographic instruments ( see Mr. H. F. Newall .
S 16 , p. 231 ) and failed to distinguish in the dispersed image the light contrast between crescent and cloud .
Five minutes later I exposed a plate in the 4-prism spectrograph , using the light reflected from the clouds near the sun ; the resulting negative has unexpectedly great density .
Four minutes before totality I was able , through a gap in the cloud , to adjust the visual objective grating ( see S 17 , p. 233 ) , and 2 minutes later to perform a similar adjustment for the photographic objective grating , an operation which 8 minutes earlier I had given up as hopeless .
The cloud was a sort of mackerel cirro-cumulus , giving momentary clear views of the crescent , which was more generally partially obscured by the floeculent masses .
As the sunlight faded with the waning of the crescent , the visibility of this veil of cloud decreased , but its presence was clearly indicated by the coloured rings .
Cloud continued in greater or less degree throughout the whole of totality , as will be gathered from the record , given in the following paragraphs , of the observations made with the various instruments .
- S 8 .
Huts for the Instrument and Dark Boom .
Two huts\#151 ; wooden framework and Willesden canvas\#151 ; were taken out to Sumatra .
One was 15 feet 2 inches long , 10 feet 10 inches wide ( the length of the sides being multiples of 2 feet 2 inches , the width of the canvas ) , 6 feet high at the eaves , 8 feet 6 inches high at the ridge .
The ridgepole was not central , but 4 feet 2 inches from one side and 6 feet 6 inches from the other ; two canvas-covered doors were provided , one in each long side , at the ends of a diagonal , and the framework of the hut was covered over with Willesden canvas , except over about two-thirds of one side of the roof .
To cover this part six thin sheets of the lightest galvanised iron ( 6 feet by 2 feet , 10 lbs. to a sheet ) were used as a roof which could be easily taken off when it was desired to make observations or to let in light and air into the hut , and which , when replaced , formed a water-tight roof that resisted even tropical rain .
Over the hut , and quite separate from it , a light bamboo framework was erected by native workmen , and a thatching of rough grass ( " alang-alang " ) was fitted over it , leaving only a space of a foot and i a-half between it and the canvas roofing ; the thatching was , of course , j omitted over the galvanised-iron sheets .
/ This hut was used to cover all the instrument , and was found extremely convenient .
The other hut was 10 feet 10 inches long , 8 feet 8 inches wide , 6 feet ; high at the eaves , 8 feet 6 inches high at the ridge .
It had been used i in Algiers for the instrument hut ; on the present occasion it was !
converted into a photographic dark room .
For this purpose a roll of Willesden waterproof paper , 5 feet wide , ordinarily used for under- j slating , had been taken out to Sumatra , and was used to make the | Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17\#151 ; 18 .
219 canvas hut light-tight .
The canvas was put on outside the framework , and the roof was thatched with " alang-alang " on the top of the canvas , to help to keep out rain and sun , and the thick paper was tacked in position inside the framework .
This was done in such cunning fashion under Dr. Wallace 's direction , that the hut was well ventilated , and I doubt if so convenient and comfortable a dark room has ever been constructed in the tropics .
With reference to the dark room , I may add that a good supply of ice for keeping the chemical and washing baths cool was obtained from Padang , but this was only used for the plates that had to be preserved .
A great many of those taken in the process of adjusting the instruments were entirely rotted when ice was not used , but as these were only of passing value there was no object in preserving them .
S 9 .
General Arrangement of the Instruments .
Inside the large hut three piers were built:\#151 ; ( i. ) One to carry the 4-prism spectroscope and the visual objective grating ; top level and oriented north and south .
( ii .
) Another immediately to the west of it to carry the coelostat ; top level and oriented north and south .
( iii .
) A third , still more to the west , to carry the double tube camera , the photographic objective-grating camera and other apparatus , all inclined and pointing downwards towards the coelostat ; top inclined at an angle 22 ' with the horizon , and in azimuth 70 ' west of south .
The hut was set so that one diagonal of the base was parallel to the length of the third pier , or in other words , to the double tube i cameraj the long sides of the hut thus lay nearly east and west .
The I part of the roof over the N.E. corner was covered with the movable corrugated iron , so as to admit the sunlight to the ccelostat and 4 pi ism spectroscope below .
The two clocks for driving the coelostat and the 4-prism spectroscope were put on piers just outside the north side of the hut , and ueio protected by sheets of corrugated iron leaning against that wall of the 1 hut .
The weights for the coelostat clock were hung over a pulley attached to the bamboo framework that supported the thatch .
The visual polariscopes were fitted to the framework of the hut up in the N.E. corner .
S 10 .
The Coelostat .
The 16-inch coelostat , which was used by Professor Turner in India in 1898 , and in Algiers in 1900 , had been specially provided , by the f care of Dr. Common , with an additional support to the mounting , which made it quite stable and suitable for use on the equator .
The Mr. H. F. N'ewalL mirror , made by Dr. Common and silvered by the Improved Electric Glow-Lamp Company , had a very fine surface , which was found in admirable condition when it was unpacked and put into its mounting on May 14 .
All the preliminary adjustments of the polar axis of the instrument had been made by means of the attached declination-theodolite , as in recent eclipses .
Dr. Common kindly lent me a 6-inch flat , silver-on-glass mirror ( also silvered by the above-named Company ) , and I used it once or twice before May 14 , temporarily fitted to the mounting of the coelostat ; for it seemed safer in the tropical climate to run as little risk as possible with the 16-inch mirror , though I had , thanks to the kindness of Mr. Hinks , taken out silvering solutions in case of need .
The final adjustment of the polar axis of the instrument was completed after the large mirror had been put in position in the mounting , and calls for no special mention .
The tilt of the mirror\#151 ; i.e. , the perpendicularity of its normal to the polar axis\#151 ; was tested by making the polar axis horizontal , as judged by the readings of the level on the theodolite , and then comparing the readings of a small level carefully placed on a sheet of paper on the silvered surface of the mirror , with the readings of the theodolite level .
This procedure was regarded as sufficient and satisfactory for a place close to the equator , though exception might be taken to it were it adopted in higher latitudes .
S 11 .
The i-prism Spectroscope with two Slits .
It was intended to attempt\#151 ; ( i. ) To secure five photographs of the bright-line spectrum of the sun 's limb at the beginning of totality , and six others at the end , one slit only being used .
( ii .
) To photograph the spectrum of the corona in both eastern and western equatorial regions to get material for determination of the relative motion in the line of sight ( rotation of the corona ) , two slits being used .
The instrument arranged for this work is a 4-prism spectroscope with two slits .
It was used by the writer in India at Pulgaon in 1898 , * and at Algiers in 1900.f The train of prisms is of such dimensions and construction as to transmit a 2-inch beam of light and to produce a minimum deviation sj of 180 ' for Hy .
The camera and collimator are set parallel to one * another .
The whole spectroscope is mounted so as to turn about an axis \#174 ; Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 64 , p. 55 ; 'Monthly Notices , Roy .
Astro .
Soc./ voljfl 58 , App. , p. [ 55 ] .
+ Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol , 67 , p. 356 ; ' Monthly Notices , Roy .
Astro .
Soc. , ' vol. 60 , U App. , p. [ 20 ] .
Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
parallel to the collimator .
The axis is rotated ( with a period of 24 hours ) by clockwork , and is tilted so as to be parallel to the earths axis .
It was adjusted so that the collimator pointed to the south pole and the camera to the north pole .
The tube of the collimator is prolonged beyond the plane of the slit , and is arranged to carry at its end a mirror of speculum metal and an object-glass , by means of which an image of the sun can be thrown between the two slits .
The whole arrangement thus consists of a spectroscope combined with a polar heliostat , and in virtue of the fact that the spectroscope is rotated together with the mirror , the image of any celestial object thrown on the slit does not rotate relatively to the slit .
The minoi is mounted in such a manner that the axis about which it is tilted can be oriented relatively to the collimator tube , so that the slits may be set parallel to any diameter of the sun. .
On the present occasion the slits were set parallel to the axis of the sun .
In India the slits were set at too great a distance apart , and the light of the corona was not strong enough to impress the photographic plate ; the slits were set so as to catch the corona nearly 8 ' from the sun 's limb on each side .
In Algiers the instrument was used with only one slit , and the spectrum of the corona was photographed m two regions to a distance from the limb with an exposure of 49 seconds , and the resulting negative was .
a good strong one .
In Sumatra I expected to be able to get an exposure of 270 or even 300 seconds , and to avoid risk of disappointment the slits were set at such a distance apart as to catch the corona 3 ' from the sun 's limb on each side .
This distance was as small as it seemed wise to adopt , account being taken of the apparent diameter and movement of the moon during totality .
The instrument was fairly well adjusted on May 2 , and I then took the opportunity afforded by a clear night to throw an image of the full moon on to the slits .
It was brightly seen and easily adjusted ; but to make matters more certain , I painted the slit-plate white , so that there might be no possible difficulty in setting the image of the corona between the slits after the exposures had been made for the " flash " spectrum with the crescent across one of the slits .
ihe sequel will show that even this precaution was not enough under the circunistSincGSi The adjustment of the axis of the instrument to parallelism with the earth 's axis was accomplished in the same way as m India and A giers by means of a theodolite with declination circle and level which was attached to a part of the frame of the spectroscope specially prepared The rotating plate-holder , charged with twelve small plates , was again used for the exposures as in Algiers .
Mr. H. F. Newall .
I was observing the diminishing crescent through the guiding eyepiece of the spectroscope when Dr. Wallace called out " Stand by , " and at once hastened to the plate-holder to make exposures for the " flash .
" Five exposures had been made , each twice as long as I had intended to make had there been no cloud , and as the counting went on longer than I anticipated I decided to make one more exposure , thus using a sixth plate at the beginning of totality .
Immediately after having moved Plate No. 7 into its place with shutter closed , I returned to the guiding eye-piece to set the corona ring between the slits .
I could see one side of the faint ring distinctly , but could not see the slits , but having learnt by experiment in the course of the morning what movements of the declination and R. A. slow-motions were required to move the image from one position to the other , I made those movements and , being still unable to see the slits , looked up at the corona .
There was .no difficulty in seeing the dark moon , so to speak , but the corona was quite indistinct beneath the cloud , and was surrounded by a colourless bright ring , which is referred to in the General Remarks .
My notes , written directly after the eclipse , con* tain the following:\#151 ; " I heard count 'Thirty/ and took a candle lamp [ which was standing in the tent ] to try to illuminate the slit-plate , but failed to get light in .
Then , as ' Thirty-five 'was called , I turned to polariscope .
No trace of polarisation .
Turned to second polariscope and could see no trace of polarisation , but saw mackerel sky very strong as it seemed , all over region near the sun , especially to .
N.E. . . .
Return-1 ing to 4-prism spectroscope I found the whole ring of the corona visible , but still could not see the slits .
Tried candle again ; no use .
'Two minutes gone * was called .
Ring was clearly lighter , but slit not visible ; cloud pretty strong over corona , which could only be traced about half a diameter from the limb .
I walked towards double tube and met W. [ coming back into hut ] , who was I thought waiting for improvement in cloud .
He asked , ' Is Savart set .
' ... [ I replied ' Yes ' and ] he at once exposed plate-holder No. 2 in the double camera , and I heard ' 2m 35s ' called as I walked back to spectroscope .
|* Corona was brighter , and I found slits visible , and moved corona ring on to the right place and exposed at 2m 45 s [ having lost two minutes \#166 ; and fifteen seconds , exactly half the intended exposure ] .
Then I S turned to polariscope and still failed to see any bands , and then went J to visual grating ... Clouds seemed thinner when I looked up at |j sky , and Mercury and Venus were very bright .
I had one more look at corona on the slits of 4-prism [ and found it still correctly adjusted on the slits , and the clpckwork evidently driving well ] , and then as I Briggs came back into hut , I looked at polariscope for third time and again failed to see any bands on sky .
At 5m 0s I saw B. and Mrs. N. I close their exposures , and I closed mine at 5m 3s , the rubber band of I Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
223 shutter sticking rather .
Then re-set bright side of corona according to picture [ previously made to indicate position angle of crescent on slit ] , and began to expose the five remaining plates in 4-prism [ for second ' flash ' ] .
At 5m 35s I called \#163 ; Now ' to Briggs and Mrs. N. for their final photographs , when I felt end of totality had come . . .
[ I turned to chronometer and waited for ] W. 's signal ' Now , ' which was to mean the 15-seconds crescent [ of returning sun ] .
I noted this on chronometer , and waited further for Hobart 's final 'Sixty , ' which I also noted on the chronometer .
Called ' Cover slides , ' and then went out of hut and saw mackerel cloud all over the sky near the sun and ' glory ' rings coloured round crescent .
Sky got rapidly more clouded , and clouds drifted slowly towards west .
Collected notes from observers .
" B Summary of Exposures.\#151 ; Six exposures were made near second contact with the following durations :\#151 ; 1 second , 1 second , 2 seconds , 2 seconds , 2 seconds , 3 seconds .
1 ; The seventh plate was exposed for the corona spectrum for 2m 18s .
Five exposures were made near third contact with the following durations 2 seconds , 2 seconds , 1 second , 1 second , 1 second .
I Results.\#151 ; Of the twelve plates thus exposed , only four plates show any impress of the light .
The rest , including the exposure on the corona , show nothing , though development was pressed as far as possible .
i Five minutes before totality a photographic plate was exposed for 15 seconds to get the spectrum of the sunlight reflected from the clouds near the crescent\#151 ; this was to serve to give standard measurements to which the measures of the corona spectrum were to be referred\#151 ; and a good strong negative was obtained .
| The plates at second contact are very feeble negatives , and I attribute their weakness to cloud .
Photographs obtained with the other instruments at the beginning of totality show that at least three-I quarters of the light was intercepted by cloud . ?
The spectrum of the corona failed because of insufficient exposure \gt ; under the cloudy conditions .
The plates at the end of totality , when there was certainly very | much less cloud , show no sign of impress of the light , and I can only | explain it by assuming that the image of the reappearing crescent 1 must have been set across the slit in such a way that three or four I more exposures than I had the means of giving were needed to catch f the reappearing chromosphere .
Photographs obtained with the i objective grating show that there was plenty of light to impress the I plate , if only it had passed into the slit .
Mr. H. F. Newall .
S 12 .
Dallmeyer Telephotographic Camera .
The double camera used by Professor Turner at Sahdol in 1898 and at Algiers in 1900 was used on the present occasion in the modified form adopted at Algiers .
One of the 7 x 7-inch tubes contained the photoheliograph objective No. 2 , of 4-inch aperture and 5-feet focal length , with a Dallmeyer secondary magnifier of 7J inches focus , placed 5 inches within the focus , giving an image of the sun 1-43 inches in diameter on plates X 6\#163 ; inches .
The method adopted for focussing was first to focus on trees on a distant hill top , viewed through blue glass , and then to use the collimating process , adopted in many recent eclipses .
A plane mirror set perpendicular to the axis of the camera reflects rays emerging from the objective back again through the objective ; the image of objects in the focal plane is thus formed in the focal plane .
The mirror used on the present occasion was the 6-inch kindly lent to me by Dr. Common , and a negative , specially prepared with an image of a finely graduated scale in white on a black ground , was used as the object to be focussed on a sensitive plate , which was put in the same plane with it .
Four trials gave sufficient data to set the focus accurately .
The results obtained in the eclipse are as satisfactory as the lenses will give , and it seems right to suggest that some other lenses be used , if it is decided to take this kind of photograph of the corona in future eclipses . .
The programme of exposures with this camera was of necessity the same as that adopted for the polariscopic images referred to in S13 , p. 227 , for the exposures were made by means of the one shutter for both cameras .
The six slides were filled with Ilford Empress plates , and all six were to be exposed during totality if circumstances allowed .
It was intended , if the sky was clear , that the exposures should include the series , 2s , 4s , 8s , 16s , 32s , and another long 1 one ( 120s ) with diminished aperture ; and in case of cloud the long !
exposure was , if necessary , to be sacrificed altogether , and the ex-3 posures in geometrical series were to be secured , if possible , in clear j intervals .
The order of the exposures was to be:\#151 ; 1 .
8 seconds , followed by an interval in which the Savart camera 1 would be set by me after visual observations of the atmo- I spheric polarisation had been made .
2 .
16 seconds .
3 .
32 seconds , after which Dr. Wallace was to put a cap on the I lens to diminish its aperture .
4 .
Long exposure , to be sacrificed if necessary ; after this the cap 1 was to be removed again from the lens .
5 .
4 seconds .
6 .
2 seconds .
Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
225 In the event , the long exposure was sacrificed , the other five were made .
The actual exposures were :\#151 ; 1 .
8 seconds , beginning 10 seconds after the signal " Go .
" 2 .
17 " , , 2 minutes 35 seconds after the signal " Go .
" 3 .
36 " , , 3 " 15 " 5 seconds ) .
4 .
Omitted .
5 .
4 seconds , beginning 5 minutes 3 seconds after the signal " Go .
" 6 .
2 " , , 5 , , 18 , , , , , , The first exposure was made through clouds .
The interval between the first and second exposures was more than 2 minutes longer than it would have been had the sky been clear .
In the third exposure one of the shutters had evidently not acted , the photograph showing nothing but the standard squares , which had been put on just before development .
The last two exposures were carried out according to programme , and were made probably at moments when the sky was clearer than at any other time during the whole eclipse .
The Standard Squares.\#151 ; After the eclipse , Sir .
W. Abney 's standard squares were impressed on all the plates for photometric measurements .
Exposures were made to a standard candle at 5 feet from the plate , and , following a suggestion made by Professor Turner after his experience with the plates taken at Algiers in 1900 , two sets of squares were impressed , with different exposures , on all the plates , as follows :\#151 ; Exposure for Exposure for standard Plate .
corona .
squares .
No. 1 8 seconds 10 seconds and 5 seconds " 2 17 " 20 " 5 " " 3 36 " 80 " 5 " 4 not exposed 80 " 5 " " 5 4 seconds 80 " 5 " " 6 2 " 20 " 5 " Development.\#151 ; All the plates were developed with metol .
When it was found that there was no image on No. 3\#151 ; one of the exposing shutters evidently had not acted\#151 ; it was thought Wise to impress squares on No. 4 , and develop it , just for the very improbable chance that it had been exposed in mistake for No. 3 , but no image appeared on the plate .
Results.\#151 ; The four photographs obtained are all good clean plates .
The effect of the cloud is clearly seen in the plates , though it is surprising that the definition has not been more affected by it .
The first exposure ( 8 seconds ) shows less than the last ( 2 seconds ) ; | VOL. lxix .
R 226 Mr. H. F. Newall .
and the second ( 17 seconds ) shows very little more than the fifth ( 4 seconds ) .
The form of the corona is clearly of the type associated with the minimum in the sunspot cycle .
The eastern equatorial region shows great disturbance , and there are mahy striking prominences on the eastern limb and several marked arches .
In particular , reference may be made to ( i ) two dark rifts radiating from the neighbourhood of a prominence near the sun 's equator , on the east side * ( ii ) bright and dark arches in no less than three of the quadrants , extending about 4 ' from the limb ; ( iii ) a dark region surrounding a large prominence whose position-angle is approximately 20 ' measured from the N. point of the sun ; and ( iv ) a remarkably definite edge as of a chromospheric layer for a considerable arc of the sun 's limb , in the N.W. quadrant , such as Sir Norman Loekyer described as seen in the photographs secured in Spain last year .
A summary is given below of the extension noted in the different photographs\#151 ; extension being measured beyond the moon 's limb , and expressed in minutes of arc :\#151 ; 1 Plate No. 1 .
8 seconds .
No. 2 .
17 seconds .
No. 5 .
4 seconds .
No. 6 .
j 2 seconds , j North polar streamers 5 ' 15 ' 21 ' 5 ' East equatorial 8 23 19 8 West " .
5 22 12 9 South polar # 3 !
10 1 8 4 S 13 .
The Polariscopic Camera ( SPlates and Nicol Prism ) .
The Savart camera , which was constructed for use in Algiers , was to be used on the present occasion with a view to getting information as to the amount of polarisation in the outer regions of the corona , and , in particular , in the search for the position of maximum polarisation .
1 Professor J. J. Thomson very kindly put the large Nicol prisms from the Cavendish Laboratory collection $ , t my disposal again , and the Savart plates were arranged in the same way as last year.* The camera was put in the second compartment of the double tube , side by side with another camera which was provided with M similar lens , but had no polarising apparatus in front .
In this way images of the same scale were obtained side by side on the one plate , one image being taken through the polariscopic camera , the other through the plain camera , each camera having an aperture approximately F/ 27 .
# ' Proe .
Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 67 , p. 363 5 ' Monthly Notices , Roy .
Astro .
Soc. , ' yoI .
COj App. , p. [ 27 ] .
Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
The cameras were focussed , on trees on a distant hill viewed through blue glass , and gave satisfactory images .
The programme of exposures was the same as that for the Dallmeyer telephotographic camera , as follows :\#151 ; 8 seconds , 16 seconds , 32 seconds , 120 seconds , 4 seconds , 2 seconds , thus including one long exposure , and five others in geometrical progression , it being intended to compare the polarised image on one plate with the unpolarised image on the plate next before it in the series .
The Savart was to be set in accordance with the result of visual observations of the atmospheric polarisation , so that the bands due to atmospheric polarisation should be obliterated .
The first photograph was made with an arbitrary setting of the Savart , and the setting chosen was one that would give the coronal bands slightly inclined to the sun 's equator .
In the event no atmospheric polarisation was detected , and the Savart was left at the same setting throughout all the exposures .
Mr. M^allace made simultaneous exposures for these and for the Dallmeyer telephotographic camera .
I Results.\#151 ; As in the case of the Dallmeyer telephotographic camera , four photographs were obtained , standard squares being impressed on each plate after the eclipse with a standard candle at 5 feet .
Exposure for Exposure for standard corona .
squares .
No. 1 8 seconds 10 seconds and 5 seconds " 2 17 " 20 " 5 " " 5 4 j\gt ; 20 " 5 .
\#187 ; \#187 ; 6 2 , , \#151 ; " 5 ( one only ) .
I All the photographs with the Savart camera are good clean plates and show marked polarisation of the corona .
The following table summarises the extensions of the coronal streamers in the unpolarised images and of the bands in the polarised .
Extensions expressed in Minutes of Arc from Moon 's Limb .
P = Polarised Image .
U = Unpolarised .
I 1 Plate No. 1 .
No. 2 .
| No. 5 .
No : 6 .
Exposure 8 seconds .
17 seconds . .
4 seconds .
2 seconds .
~7 \#166 ; tr .
P. U. p. U. P* _UJP ; North polar streamers 8 ' ?
20 ' 28'( ?
) 15 ' 10'( ?
) 8 ' ?
E East equatorial 13 57 ' 46 69 29 28 15 10 ' 1 West " 8 49 41 97 29 34 20 23 1 l South polar | 5 ?
r 16 ?
11 ?
8 ?
1 ' r 2 Mr. H. F. NewalL In estimating extensions in the unpolarised images no account was taken of light , which it seemed fair to attribute to diffusion from clouds .
Extension was gauged along streamers , not in structureless luminosity .
In many cases bands can be traced in the polarised images further than streamers in the unpolarised .
Many years ago Sir G. G. Stokes pointed out that the Savart polariscope might be used for the detection of faint extensions of the corona , and it may be that these photographs give evidence of the value of that suggestion .
Across the dark moon very faint bands are detectable only in the 17-second exposure .
I am not yet prepared to say how far the discussion of the results may lead me to attribute the extension of the bands to the diffusion of polarised light which emanates from the corona by terrestrial clouds , but it is clear that the resultant polarisation of such light must be , so far as the Savart bands are concerned , in a plane parallel to the equatorial extensions .
The value of the photographs , as a , with related exposures is much interfered with by the variation in the effect produced by cloud , and in consequence it wall hardly be possible to utilise them for finding at what distance from the sun there is the maximum relative polarisation , even were the impressed extensions great enough .
But as each plate had two exposures made on it simultaneously , one of the polarised image and one of the unpolarised , it is anticipated that they will serve well for the determination of the amount of polarisation in many regions of the corona .
The accompanying figure ( fig. 1 ) indicates the contours of equal brightness in the two images , polarised ( dotted line ) and unpolarised ( unbroken line ) obtained in the second ( the longest ) exposure .
It is reduced from a drawing made on a screen on which the two images were successively thrown by means of a lantern .
The most marked streamers in the corona are indicated as well as the contours .
No great precision has been aimed at in the diagram , its object being merely to give an idea of the sort of material obtained for the j investigation .
The phenomena are somewhat complicated ; in consequence of the radial polarisation of the corona , the bands in the quadrants through which the central band passes form a system with white centre , those in the other quadrants form a system with dark centre ; the two systems meet along lines passing through the centre and inclined at 45 to the central band .
Hence some care must be exercised in interpreting the appearances presented .
S 14 .
Atmospheric Polarisation .
The Savart polariscopes A , B , and C were fixed on the framework of i the hut in such position that the sky in the neighbourhood of the j Total Solar Eclipse , of 1901 , May 17-18 .
eclipsed sun could be seen through them .
Each was mounted in a turning tube , provided with a pointer and graduated circle and attached to a wooden stand .
The programme of observations was that I should look through A as soon after the beginning of totality as the adjustment and exposures of the 4-prism spectroscope would set me free .
The polariscope was to be then turned in its tube until the Savart bands were invisible , and Fig. 1 .
\ I was at once to set the large photographic Savart camera to the corresponding reading , and to call out to Mr. Wallace , who was making the exposures for that camera .
Next the polariscope B was to be used half-way through totality , when my visual observations with the grating-spectroscope were completed .
Finally the polariscope C was to be used towards the end of totality , just before the fifth minute was completed .
Each of the polariscopes was to be left as adjusted " for extinction , " and the readings were to be made at leisure after the eclipse , except in the case of A , of which the readings were needed at once .
Mr. H. F. Newall .
Result.\#151 ; In the event I used A about 40 seconds after the beginning of totality , and found no trace of polarisation in any position of the instrument .
To make sure that nothing was wrong I used also polari-scope B , and corroborated the first observation .
Towards the end of the third minute\#151 ; 2m 50s from the beginning of totality\#151 ; I again observed with B. At the end of the fifth minute I used C ; and in neither case could I detect a trace of atmospheric polarisation .
About 3.50 p.m. , after the eclipse was over , I used the polariscopes again , and found them all as adjusted in the morning before the eclipse ; each one showed showed strong bands on the patches of blue sky visible in the field of view .
S 15 .
The QuartzjSpedrograph .
It was intended to attempt to get\#151 ; ( i ) Photographs of the ultra-violet spectrum of the flash at the beginning and end of totality .
( ii ) A photograph of the ultra-violet spectrum of the corona .
The instrument was fixed on the top of the double tube , and was supplied by light from the ecelostat .
The arrangement was such that the slit could be set , without readjustment of the image , to catch the crescents both at beginning and end of totality , and the corona during totality .
No other medium but quartz was used in the lenses and prisms , and the dimensions were such that a 2-inch beam was transmitted .
The image lens had a focal length of 20 'inches , and the collimator and camera lenses were each of focal length 18 inches ; the prism was compounded of two 30 ' prisms , one of right-handed and the other of left-handed crystal ; all the optical parts were constructed by Hilger .
Unfortunately it was found impossible to get the adjustments completed before the eclipse .
On the morning of the eclipse a final attempt was made , and it was thought well to make the exposures according to programme .
These i were all duly made , but the adjustment was so imperfect that the| photographs are useless , which is all the more regretable as the plates show strong spectra .
S 16 .
Photographic Objective-grating .
It was intended to attempt to get-\#151 ; ( i ) Photographs of the " flash " spectrum with high dispersion in a 1 limited range of spectrum , to assist in the discussion of the 1 origin of lines , whose wave-lengths it was hoped would be I determined accurately by means of the 4-prism spectroscope .
1 ( ii ) A photograph of the blue coronal ring near X 4231 , for com-1 parison with the visual observations of the green coronal ring.* Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , 17-18 .
The instrument employed was in essentials that used at Algieis in 1900 but it was mounted differently .
A plane grating by Rowland , 14,438 lines to the inch on a ruled surface 5 x 3* inches , was fitted on an axis in front of a telescope of aperture 4 inches and focal length 66-8 inches .
The grating is a very brilliant one ; the objective is an excellent one , corrected for photographic rays , by Cooke and Sons ; and both belong to the splendid spectroscopic installation arranged by the late Professor Piazzi Smyth .
I am under great obligation to the Royal Society for the continued loan of this outfit .
_ _ The telescope with grating attached was fixed inclined at an ang e of 20 ' to the horizontal and pointing downwards on the sloping piei which supported the double camera , the telescope and camera being parallel .
Part of the beam reflected by the ccelostat was allowed to fall on a 6-inch mirror , and thereby reflected downwards on to the grating .
By inclining the plane of this reflection by the proper amount with the vertical , it was possible to get the crescent at second contact symmetrically disposed with respect to the plane of dispersion of the grating .
It was thought best to run the risk involved m the loss of light for the sake of getting the telescope into the very convenient position of parallelism with the double camera , and on the same sloping pier with it .
The light reflected by the small mirror fell upon the grating with an incidence of 39 ' , and the diffracted beam left the grating at an angle of about 5 ' on the other side of the normal .
In this position Hv in the spectrum of the second order was not far from the centie of the fie of view of the telescope .
The focussing and final adjustment of the spectrum on the focussing plate was intentionally left to be done a few minutes before totality , when the width of the diminishing crescent would make it possible to recognise the exact part of the spectrum in the field of view .
Ten minutes before totality the cloud was so obscuring that on looking into the eye-piece I could not distinguish between the spectrum of the crescent and light reflected from the clouds .
Returning to the instrument 6 minutes later I found the lines visible , and Lieutenant Briggs , who was to take charge of the exposures with this instrument , turned the tilting screw of the grating till I could see that the dark crescent- : shaped lines near X 4231 were in the centre of the field .
I then \#166 ; focussed very carefully , and handed over the instrument to Lieutenant Briggs .
Programme.\#151 ; Exposures were to be made\#151 ; ( i ) For 1 second when the signal " Stand by " was called by Dr. Wallace 15 seconds before totality .
( ii ) For 2 seconds when the count " Thirteen " was called before j totality . .
Mr. H. F. NewalL ( iii ) For 4| minutes , starting at the count " Thirty " after the beginning of totality and ending at the count " Sixty , \#151 ; five minutes gone .
" ( iv ) For 2 seconds , when I gave the signal " Now " at the end of totality .
Lieutenant Briggs .carried out the programme with admirable precision .
Result.\#151 ; All four photographs are of -value .
The first serves for determination of the scale of the spectrum and shows that the focussing was very successful .
The second and fourth photographs show both bright and dark lines , as was intended ; the second is a weak negative , but is full of interesting details ; the fourth is quite strong , teeming with bright crescents , of which more than ninety have been counted between A , 4308 and A. 4405 .
Many of the crescents are bright throughout their whole length ; many are reversed in the middle ; some of the bright crescents are accompaned by dark crescents on either side ; others have a dark crescent only on one side or the other ; all varieties seem to be represented .
The third photograph is not very strong but it shows marked continuous spectrum , with the blue coronal ring distinctly though not easily i visible .
The edges are ill-defined , in marked contrast with the sharp prominence-tips that , serve to mark out the positions of the H and Hfi chromospheric rings .
The radial extension of the blue coronal ring is about 3 ' , but there \ is no sign of radial structure .
Two determinations of the wave-length of the light forming the blue -ring give the values 4231-4 and 4231-9 , if the wave-lengths ascribed to I the dark Hy and Hfi lines may be adopted for the bright hydrogen !
prominences .
The dispersion is about 5-14 tenth-metres to a millimetre , and the I scale of the ring is such that its diameter corresponds to 65 tenth-1 metres .
The conditions are thus favourable for the detection of f coronal rings .
No ring except that at 4231 has been with certainty i detected between Hy and Ha .
S 17 .
Visual Objective-grating Spectroscope .
An objective grating spectroscope was used as in India , in 1898 , * ] for visual observations of the green coronal ring , with a view to 1 ( i ) repeating the search made during the Indian eclipse for fine radial J streamers , ( ii ) comparing the distribution of light in the green ring 1 with that in the blue ring near A 4231 , of which I hoped to get a j photograph with a photographic objective grating camera .
A plane grating by Rowland , 14,438 lines to the inch , on a ruled I * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' toI .
64 , p. 57 ; * Monthly Notices , Roy .
Astro .
Soc. , ' vol. 58 , 1 App. , p. [ 57 ] .
Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May-17-18 .
233 surface 3| x 2|- inches , was fixed on a turn-table in front of a telescope of aperture 3^ inches , and focal length 29 inches .
A positive eye-piece with two cross-wires was used , which gave a magnifying power of 19-2 , and whose circular field of view was rather more than 1 ' in diameter .
: The instrument was mounted so that the telescope was parallel to the earth 's axis and pointed to the south pole .
The grating was used iu a manner analogous to that in which the mirror of a polar heliostat is used .
The light of the corona was incident at an angle of about 57 ' , and the diffracted beam utilised in the telescope left the grating at an angle of about 13 ' .
In this position of the grating , the green of the second order was used and the magnifying power of the grating was approximately one-half , so that the distorted coronal ring was an ellipse , of which the major axis was about twice as long as the minor axis , the minor axis being parallel to the length of the spectrum and perpendicular to the .direction of daily motion .
No clockwork was used , hut a wedge pushed under a wooden arm fixed to the instrument and projecting radially outwards from |the telescope served to give a satisfactory slow motion by slightly turning the whole instrument about what may he described as polar pivots .
I The instrument was focussed on the E group of lines about two minutes before totality began .
The crescent was small enough to show the lines sharply , though the instrument was so set that the point of second contact was near the end of the major axis of the distorted image .
i When I came to make observations of the green coronal ring , I first looked very carefully for fine radial structure ; and finding none , I altered the focus very slightly .
This did not improve matters , so I reverted to the original focussing , and am quite satisfied about the observation , which could not he more definite .
I The observations were begun after the completion of the third minute of totality and were completed in about 80 seconds .
Two ellipses had been drawn beforehand to serve as outline for the distorted limb of the moon j and on one of these the record of contour lines of the brightness was quickly but carefully sketched .
1 Remits -r-The coronal ring was distinctly seen , but there was a good deal of other green light throughout the whole of the field of view , doubtless from clouds .
No fine radial structure could be seen anywhere round the ring ; but there were two broad patches of the light of " coronium " projecting from the elliptical ring , i The accompanying figure ( fig. 2 ) shows by the dotted lines the ellipse drawn beforehand , and the contour lines as sketched in during the eclipse .
The unbroken lines indicate the results got by projecting the ellipse into a circle and making the corresponding change in the ; contour lines .
Total Solar Eclipse of 1901 , May 17-18 .
S 18 .
General Observations .
The general darkness during totality was greater than that in India , 1898 , and in Algiers in 1900 , but not so much greater as was anticipated from the great length of duration of totality .
No integrating photometer was used .
Lamps and candles were provided in case of need , but they might have been dispensed with except for one adjustment .
Fig. 2 .
/ / Th.e figure shows , by contour lines of equal brightness , the position of the two | bright patches of incandescent " coronium " seen in the corona .
During totality I noted several times an uncoloured ring of light round the moon .
It was evidently of terrestrial origin\#151 ; in fact , a ring such as apart from an eclipse would be described as a " corona .
" The radius of the ring was estimated as about 1 or 1| ' .
The equatorial streamers of the true solar corona were estimated as being visible not further than a quarter of a degree from the moon 's limb , being them lost in general diffused light .
The peculiar feature about the ring , as a phenomenon of diffraction due to the small particles of water forming ' the cloud to which it was without doubt due , was that the maximum i of brightness appeared to be in the ring itself rather than near its centre .
j After totality colours again appeared in it , but I did not note nor can I recall the diameter of the rings .

