On a Gas showing the Spectrum of Helium .
April 25 , 1895 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On a Gas showing the Spectrum of Helium , the reputed cause of D3 , one of the Lines in the Coronal Spectrum .
Preliminary Note .
" By William Ramsay , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , University College , London .
Received March 26 , 1895 .
In the course of investigations on argon , some clue was sought for , which would lead to the selection of one out of the almost innumerable compounds with which chemists are acquainted , with which to attempt to induce argon to combine .
A paper by W. F. Hillebrand , " On the Occurrence of Nitrogen in Uraninite , \amp ; c. " ( ' Bull , of the U.S. Geological Survey , ' No. 78 , p. 43 ) , to which Mr. Miers kindly directed my attention , gave the desired clue .
In spite of Hillebrand 's positive proof that the gas he obtained by boiling various samples of uraninite with weak sulphuric acid was nitrogen ( p. 55)\#151 ; such as formation of ammonia on sparking with hydi*ogen , analysis of the platinichloride , vacuum-tube spectrum , \amp ; c.\#151 ; I was sceptical enough to doubt that any compound of nitrogen , when boiled with acid , would yield free nitrogen .
The result has justified the scepticism .
The mineral employed was cleveite , essentially a uranate of lead , containing rare earths .
On boiling with weak sulphuric acid , a considerable quantity of gas was evolved .
It was sparked " with oxygen over soda , so as to free it from nitrogen and all known gaseous bodies except argon ; there was but little contraction ; the nitrogen removed may well have been introduced from air during this ' preliminary experiment .
The gas was transferred over mercury , and the oxygen absorbed by potassium pyrogallate ; the gas was removed , washed with a trace of boiled water , and dried by admitting a little sulphuric acid into the tube containing it , which stood over mercury .
The total amount was some 20 c.c. Several vacuum-tubes were filled with this gas , and the spectrum was examined , the spectrum of argon being thrown simultaneously into the spectroscope .
It was at once evident that a new gas was present along with argon .
Fortunately , the argon-tube was one which had been made to try On a Gas showing the Spectrum of Helium .
[ Apr. 25 , whether magnesium-poles would free the argon from all traces of nitrogen .
This it did ; hut hydrogen was evolved from the magnesium , so that its spectrum was distinctly visible .
Moreover , magnesium usually contains sodium , and the D line was also visible , though faintly , in the argon-tube .
The gas from cleveite also showed hydrogen lines dimly , probably through not having been filled with completely dried gas .
On comparing the two spectra , I noticed at once that while the hydrogen and argon lines in both tubes accurately coincided , a brilliant line in the yellow , in the cleveite gas , was nearly but not quite coincident with the sodium line D of the argon-tube .
Mr. Crookes was so kind as to measure the wave-length of this remarkably brilliant yellow line .
It is 587'49 millionths of a millimetre , and is exactly coincident with the line D3 in the solar chromosphere , attributed to the solar element which has been named helium .
Mr. Crookes has kindly consented to make accurate measurements of the position of the lines in this spectrum , which he will publish , and I have placed at his disposal tubes containing the gas .
I shall therefore here give only a general account of the appearance of the spectrum .
While the light emitted from a Pfiucker 's tube charged with argon is bright crimson , when a strong current is passed through it , the light from the helium-tube is brilliant golden yellow .
With a feeble current the argon-tube shows a blue-violet light , the helium-tube a steely blue , and the yellow line is barely visible in the spectroscope .
It appears to require a high temperature therefore to cause it to appear with full brilliancy , and it may be supposed to be part of the high-temperature spectrum of helium .
The following table gives a qualitative comparison of the spectra in the argon* and in the helium-tubes .
Argon-tube .
( " 1st triplet , j 2nd pair .
-p , J Faint line .
116(1 ... ... ... . .
| Stronger line .
I Brilliant line .
[ _ Strong line .
( Moderate Line .
Bed-orange , \#187 ; , \lt ; , , , , l ft ft A f Faint line .
'range ... ... ... .
i Triplet .
Orange-yellow .
Pair .
Helium-tube .
f 1st triplet , j 2nd pair .
J Faint line .
J Stronger line .
I Dull line .
^ Very dim line .
Moderate line .
\#187 ; a ft if Faint line .
Triplet .
Pair .
Equal in intensity .
yf ft a it a tt I* Weak in helium .
Equal in intensity .
ft x it tt a it a it tt it a * The tube then used was the one with which Mr. Crookes 's measurements of the argon spectrum were made .
It contains absolutely pure atmospheric argon .
1895 .
] On the new Gas obtained from Argon-tube .
Yellow ... ... .
Absent .
Green Green-blue . . . .
Blue ... ... ... . .
Blue-violet. . . .
Yiolet 7 lines .
5 lines .
Absent .
Absent .
Absent .
f 3 lines , strong .
[ 2 , fairly strong , f Absent .
Absent .
I Yiolet pair .
Single line .
Triplet .
I Triplet .
^ Pair .
Helium-tube .
Brilliant .
7 lines .
5 lines .
Faint .
Brilliant .
8 lines .
W = 587*49 .
( the helium line , D3 ) Equal in intensity .
In helium only .
99 99 99 99 Barely visible , if indeed present at all .
2 , fairly strong .
Equal in intensity .
Bright line .
4 bright lines .
Violet pair .
Single line .
Triplet .
Triplet .
Pair .
^ In helium only .
Equal in intensity .
99 99 99 99 99 99 It is to be noticed that argon is present in the helium-tube , and by the use of two coils the spectra could be made of equal intensity .
But there are sixteen easily visible lines present in the helium-tube only , of which one is the magnificent yellow , and there are two red lines strong in argon and three violet lines strong in , but barely visible and doubtful in the helium-tube .
This would imply that atmospheric argon contains a gas absent from the argon in the helium-tube .
It may be that this gas is the cause of the high density of argon , which would place its atomic weight higher than that of potassium .
It is idle to speculate on the properties of helium at such an early stage in the investigation ; but I am now preparing fairly large quantities of the mixture , and hope to be able before long to give data respecting the density of the mixture , and to attempt the separation of argon from helium .
( Note added June 14.\#151 ; It is now practically certain that the presence of so many of the argon lines in the helium spectrum must have been due to the accidental introduction of air .
But there still are coincidences , chiefly in the red lines , which would justify the supposition that there is some constituent common to the two gases .
) II .
" On the new Gas obtained from Uraninite .
Preliminary Note .
" By J. Norman Lockyek , C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 25 , 1895 .
On the 28th of March , Professor Ramsay was so good as to send me a tube containing a new gas obtained by him from uraninite ( cleveite ) , showing a line in the yellow which was stated to be of the

