]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
SECTION A.\mdash ; MATEEJrATICAL AND PEYSICAL SCIENCES .
A Note on the Theory of Directive or Unsymmetricat Hertzian Oscillators .
By J. A. FLEMING , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.B.S. Received March Read March Received form The employment in wireless telegraphy of antennae or wires which have part of their length vertical and part horizontal , and possess the power of radiating unequally in various horizontal directions , draws attention to the particular qualities of bent electric oscillators when used as diators or transmitters .
* The objecc of the note is to sho that the properties of such radiators can be deduced from accepted principles , experimental results so far obtained are in rveneral accordance with theory .
The nature of the field of electric and magnetic force round a shorC straight electric oscillator or doublet has been expressed analytically ) delineated graphically in well-known memoirs by Hertz , earson and Lee , and others , and that around a not very short rod or linear oscillator has been * See G. Marconi , .D .
, D.Sc .
, " " On Methods whereby the Radiation of Electric Waves may be mainly confined to certain Directions , and whereby the Receptivity of a Receiver may be restricted to Electric Waves tting f certain Directions ' Soc. Proc vol. 77 , p. 413 , 1906 .
H. Hertz , ' Wied .
Ann vol. 36 , p. 1 , 1889 , or ' Waves , ' English translation , p. 137 .
Pearson and Lee , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 193 , p. 169 , 1900 .
VOL. LXXVIII.\mdash ; A. Prof. J. A. Fleming .
Theory of tive [ May 24 , ated by M. Abraham*and depicted by F. Hack .
In these cases we have perfect symmetry of radiation round the axis of the oscillator .
This equality is , however , destroyed by bending the oscillator , and it then radiates unequally in different directions taken in the equatorial or sylmetrical plane of the oscillator through its centre , being somewhat greater or stronger on the convex side of the oscillatol The analytical treatment of subject presents , however , enormous difficulties unless we limit consideration to the case in which the current in the oscillator is assumed to have the same value at all points at the same time , and also that the dimensions of the oscillator are small compared with the distance from it of the points at which the field is considered .
One .
form of bent oscillator of the above kind may be considered to be made up by the superposition of three Hertzian electric doublets placed at right angles to each other , the poles being so arranged that at the two corners poles of opposite sign are superimposed , the oscillations in all being synchronous and similarly directed ( see fig. 1 ) .
Hence , to obtain the field 01 the bent \ldquo ; we need merely to calculate those of the components and add them together .
FIG. 1 .
Let a single electric oscillator or doublet be placed with centre at the and axis coinciding with the axis .
Let oscillations exist in it of period , and radiation be emitted of waye-length .
Suppose the length of the oscillator to be denoted by , the electric charge at either pole at any instant by , the uniform current in the axis by , whilst and I are the maximum values of and which vary so that and .
Also let be the maximum electric moment of the * M. Abraham , ' Ann. der Physik vol. 66 , p. 435 , 1898 .
F. Hack , 'Ann .
der Physik vol. 14 , p. 539 , 1904 .
1906 .
] Ante , nnoe or Unsyrmetrical Hertzian Oscillators .
oscillator .
We have , therefore , or , and , the velocity of propagation of the radiation through space .
The scalar potential at any point whose distance from the origin is is given by ( 1 ) where is the dielectric constant of the medium , and Also , if , and are the components of vector potential at , we have in this case , and .
( 2 ) If we employ the symbol to stand for , we can write the above expressions ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) in the form .
( 3 ) If we suppose this doublet to be moved parallel to itself in the ative direction so that its centre is displaced by a distance , the scalar and vector potentials at become\mdash ; , ( 4 ) .
( 5 ) Consider , then , other similar doublets of length , and maxinnum moment , placed with poles .
in opposite directions and axes parallel to the axis of , the doublets having centres at distances from the origin and poles as in .
The scalar and vector potentials at the point of these last two doublets ether a double-doublet criven by\mdash ; , ( ) .
( 7 ) Hence , if three such short , straight oscillators , having equal curreuts and charges , are placed round the origin so as to create a doubly-bent the scalar and vector potentials of this oscillator at a point thu distance of which from the origin is large compared with linear dimeusions of the oscillator , are iven by\mdash ; .
( 8 ) Prof J. A. Fleming .
Theory of Directive [ May 24 , ( 9 ) where The electric and magnetic forces at the point , of which the axial components are , and , can be obtained from equations ( 8 ) and at once by the aid of the relations\mdash ; ' ( 10 ) It is obvious that if the electric circuit is completed by placing a pair of double-doublets of moments and at right angles to each other with poles directed in like sense all round the , the free charges cancel each other pair and pair , and we are left with a closed electric circuit of area traversed by a maximum current I. This quadruple doublet creates potentials such that where 1906 .
] Antennoe or Oscillators .
Such a completely closed circuit or magnetic doublet creates , therefore , periodic electric and magnetic forces in its field when current oscillations are set up in the circuit .
* For the purposes we require only the electric and magnetic forces perpendicular to the radius vector , taken at its extremity , when that radius is taken in the plane , which is normal to the plane in which the oscillator is situated .
Hence we need only calculate the value of , and for the case in question .
If we write for I and call this the netic moment of the bent oscillator , so that , we have the following equations for the potentials and forces in the field at points not very near the oscillator\mdash ; , ( 12 ) Performing the necessary differentiations on the function and collecting .
terms in and mr \mdash ; , which for shortness will be written and , also putting for or , where are the permeability and dielectric constant of the medium , we have the following expressions for , and * In the discussion on Mr. Marconi 's paper read at the Royal Society on March 22 , 1906 , Professor J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. , pointed out that the bent antenna employed by Mr. Marconi was equivalent in effect at distant points to the combination of a magnetic doublet or bi-pole magnetic oscillator of the kind investigated , in advance of Hertz 's discovery of electric radiation , by Professor G. F. Fitzgerald ( see The Scientific Writings of the late Professor G. F. Fitzgerald , ' edited by Professor J. Larmor , p. 128 ) , and a straight Hertzian doublet or bi-pole electric oscillator .
It is obvious that if a straight electric oscillator is placed in contiguity to one side of a closed rectangular circuit or magnetic oscillator , the currents being of the same value and directed in an opposite sense in the open and adjacent side of the closed circuit , the resultant electromagnetic effect must be of a doubly bent oscillator of the type considered in the text .
The equations 8 ) , , ( 6 ) , and ( 11 ) are consistent with this mode of viewing the facts .
Prof. J. A. Fleming .
Theory of Directive [ May 24 , ( 13 ) .
( 14 ) Suppose we limit attention to the value of the electric force and the magnetic force at right angles to the extremity of the radius vector , the former being parallel to the -axis and the latter being drawn in the plane of magnetic force in this direction is equal to .
Hence we obtain its value by muItiplicabion of the values of and by and and subtraction .
Then putting in the above equations and writing for we have , ( 16 ) If we denote the amplitudes of and by and , we have finally ( 18 ) where is the amplitude of the electric force perpendiculal to the radius vector and to the equatorial plane , and is the amplitude of the magnetic force perpendicular to the radius vector and in the equatorial plane .
Hence , since is always much greater than , it is clear that when is 18 the values of and are both greater than when 1906 .
] Antennoe or Unsymmetrical Hertzian Osciltators .
If we put in the above equations they reduce to the values given by Hertz for the electric and magnetic forces of the short straight oscillator or doublet taken in the equatorial plane , the electlic force being parallel to the axis and magnetic force at right angles .
When is large compared with unity we have , showing that the energies of the magnetic and electric components of the wave then become equal .
Also there is a minimum value of and corresponding to a value of , such that , The above expressions are numerically small when is large compared with the wave-length of the radiation .
Hence a minimum value of the forces at the extremity of the radius vector is found , corresponding to some azimuthal angle rather less than reckoned from the direction in which the free ends of the bent oscillator point .
A reference to the records of observations made by Mr. Marconi* on the radiation from a bent antenna shows that the above deductions from theory agree with his observed facts .
Hence we conclude that whereas a straight vertical oscillator earthed at the lower end radiates equally in all horizontal directions or azimuths , the result of bending the antenna over to one side , so that a portion of it is horizontal , is to cause it to radiate less orously in the direction in which the free end points than in the opposite direction , and to create a minimum radiation in two other directions equally inclined to the ection of maximum radiation .
The degree of this fore-and-aft inequality in the plane of the oscillator will depend upon the ratio of the magnitude of the quantities SMmr and , or upon the ratio of to , that is upon the ratio of to , i.e. , to where is the total length of the bent oscillator .
The greatest inequality between the fore and aft radiation in the plane of the oscillator will exist when times the ratio of the sum of the of the two horizontal parts of the oscillator to its total length is as nearly as possible equal to the product of the ratios of and .
The ratio is iixed by the geometrical form of the oscillator , hence the inequality in radiative power in the fore and aft directions for a given oscillator essentially depends upon the ratio of wave-length to the distance of the point at ) observations are made , and at large distances will only be sensible when long wave- * See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 77 , p. 415 , 1906 .
8 On Directive Antennoe or Uns . ?
Oscillators .
lengths are employed .
This result also agrees with the observations of Mr. Marconi , who " " I have observed that , in order that the effects should be well marked , it is necessary that the length of the horizontal conductors should be great in proportion to their height above the ground , and that the wave-lengths employed should be considerable , condition which makes it difficult to carry out such experiments within the walls of a laboratory .
" " I have found the results to be well marked for wave-lengths of 160 metres and over , but have not been able to obtain as well-defined results when employing much shorter waves , the effects following some law which I have not yet had time to investigate The above theoretical examination of this operation of a bent oscillator shows clearly that its unsymmetrical radiation in the equatorial planle depends not upon absolute wave-length , but upon the ratio of wave-length to the distance of the receiving point and upon the proportion between the length of the vertical and of the horizontal portions of the oscillator .
The theory is thus supported by the observed facts .
If necessary , it would be possible from the equations given above to delineate the lines of electric force in the field of the bent oscillator for various epochs .
Thus if and are the components of the electric force in the plane , the differential equation to the lines of electric force in that plane is .
The substitution of the values of and and integration of this equation would furnish the equation to the lines of electlic force in the plane from which they might be delineated , but its complexity does not make the task of actually delineating the lines of force for the bent oscillator an inviting one . .
cit. , p. 420 .

