]\gt ; Prof. D. xperimental at much temperatures than they do at ordinary pressure .
Pellat*pointed out that the proximity of ( he surfac of a metal to that of another in air , changes its electrical he attributed this to Yaporization of metals , that even exerted an influence at a distance .
Colson that a pholographic plate was alfected by the vapour of certa ] metals , notably by zinc , cadmium , and even throug porous .
Dr. ] in somG recent and very interestin experiments , was led to the ] usion that even 8 inusible a metal as cobalt by vaporization , affe a aphic plate .
In January , 1897 , before hcarin of Dr. Rnssell 's , I began some expel ments with a view to ascertain whether metals , vapo ] ized in near the ordinary temperature , actually unite to form alloys .
The arrangement in fig. 6 .
A and are two discs meta with polished sllrfaces separated by a .
of glass , tb w !
lole bei osed in a vacuous tube which could ated in a water bath .
I found that when cadmiun and silver were opposed eight days at a tempera ture of an appreciable of a tinted cadmium silver alloy formed on the surface of the silvel Cadmium must , , therefore , have passed across th between the discs A and B. The results given in the present paper , reveal addi points of similal.ity betweeu the bebavioul ' alloys and that of ordinary saline solutions .
I trust , therefore , it may be useful as a tion of my investigation on " " Diffusion of Metals which formed the subject of the Bakeria ] Lecture of 1896 .
" " Experimental Investigations on the Oscillations of Balances .
' By D. , For .
Mem. B.S. Received June 9 , \mdash ; Read June 9 , 1898 .
In the year 1893 the Chamber of Weights and Measuree ( Glavnaya Palata Mer Vesov ) was created in St. Petersburg to act as a Institntion of the for ification of all kinds of standard measures .
Having been appointed Directol oi the above-mentioned Institution , I was first of all occupied in * ' Comptcs Rendus , ' 1882 , p. 1247 ; 1890 , vol. 123 , p. 104 ; and , p. 1338 .
Ibid. , 1896 , vol. 123 , p. 49 .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1897 , vol. 61 , p. 424 , and :bid .
, vol. 63 , p. 102 , Bakerian Leclure , ) Investi.qations on tlnj Oscillations of Balances .
455 ) aking arrangeme1lts for acc weighings , ) some improvetents have been introduced in the usual methods ; a detailed escription lvill be found in the official report on the renewal of lussian standards of measure wPight .
The results of the vork show that wit ] ] the balances of our ostitution we able to find the difference between two platinumridium )veights by one single weighing with an accuracy milliglam , and by a system of weig n to ailligram with a probable .
of a few ten-thousandths of a We have a number of suoh balances , those mostly used were nstructed by the well-known balance makel'S of Vienna , Ruprecht Nemetz ; some important improvements hove been made upon Aese , especially in the direction of imising the inluence of the observer .
Having obtained such results in weighings , I have used 'hem , llot only in the risou of standards of weight , but also in experimental research on the ] ations of a balance , hoping jollect some material , not only for an investigation of balances of lifferent systems and constructions general , and of the friction of knife-edges .
but ) ecially to the action of gr vity and noment of inertia on such a pendulum as is represented by an curate balance .
If we .
the of one oscillation ( from 30 to 60 seconds ) , we find that our balances correspond to synchronous matbenlaticaI pendulums of a length equal to 1000\mdash ; 3000 metres .
The investigations in this direction are not yet completed , but one part of the results obtained is now ill , and I would like to communicate an abstract to the Fellows of the Royal Society .
Before oing into ) tter , I must explain that the many of vations o the times of tion and the es in the scale-re ) been mnde by my frien ds and assistants , especially F. P. , D. Sapogenikoff , and also by Dobrokhotofl , , lIiller , and Iisses Ozarovska } and ndymionova .
Their active -operation has greatly ibnted to the success of experiments , and I am much indebted to them for ifying the , calcuIations this resenrch involves .
In the investigations nleniolled , the following data were observed : \mdash ; 1 .
The readings of the scale , , were observed a telescope after reflection from a ttacl ) to the of the balance , is the ling .
One division of the esponds in the balances to an of from to 4 minutcs .
The readings were takell ) estimation to division , which nearly with the error in Prof. D. Mendeleeff .
Expe ' imental From every set of four to five readings the position of deduced , and the amplitudes , by taking the between and .
The difference between and is what follo the decrement 2 .
The time of the passage through the position of , was determined partIy by the use of a chronographic wate partly by Marey 's chronograph , reductions having made to true mean time by comparisons with stalldard clock ( Hohwu Sl ) controlled by signals from the Astronomical Observatory .
From the observed was deduced the mean duration ( in of mean time ) of one oscillation , i.e. , from to 3 .
, the number of milligrams corresponding to one division the scale .
4 .
, the weight in of a litre of air inside the balan caso , according to of the thermometer , baromet and Assman 's psychrometer .
, the weight of the load on each pan expressed in grams .
, the weight of the whole moving mass of the balance and load in grams .
7 .
, the volume of the Joad in .
The same has a infltlence on and , and we have the change of and I. The of and depending on the value of oscillation , or amplitude , duraticn of one , oscillation , all other conditions being constan in all six examined balances }decreases with decreasin , !
oscillations or amplitudes .
These variations are not only many greater than the errors of the readin , but many hundred SUl.pass the corrections of the time of one oscillation , as deducec from the usual formula for the reduction of the oscillations of pcndulum to infinitely small amplitudes .
The decrease of the time of one oscillation in the most simple anner can be expressed in approximation by the formula .
( 1 ) .
hereforc is vel.yncal.lv equal to , but I prefcr to and in clabion to by method the small errors in disappcar .
lnvestigations on the Oscillations of Balances .
457 N Mors clearly visible the decrease of decreasing amplitude , and it is sufficient to observo four .
The experimental of the decrease of by first approximation can be represented the formula where is the limit of the decrement in the of infinitely small mplitudes , and a constant coefficient , which in all examined alances varied between .
Observations relating and have been made in a very number , and all of them onfirm the above given result .
* efore !
where ' Similar facts about and have been shortly nlentioned before , but little notice of them bas been ) .
But in our very numerous observations these facts stalld out so clearly beyond donbt , that also in the ordinary simple pendulums must suppose the existence of similar deviations which only by their smallness have escaped the cattention of the observers .
I have commenced the ation of a simple pendulum in this As and al.e varying with the amplitllde in what follows and will be given for the case when divisions , the ; signs and of and ?
cith tarrying loaa .
The { ime in all balances decreases with .
load and ( a ) For one kind of balances very quickly , as , 3 Ruprecht 's balance : \mdash ; 1 .
2 .
3 .
4 . . . . . . .
grms. grms. ) P. . . . . .
1234 , , 1440 , , , , secs .
secs .
secs .
48 secs .
details scc the above mentioned cf. O. E. Meyer , dicr , 1870 , T. other Prof. D. xperimental ( b ) For other balances consideribly slower , as ' the Nemetz : \mdash ; . . . . . .
1147 .
2213 grms. 3442 grms. . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . . . .
secs .
secs .
secs .
secs .
The decrement in some balances with increasing load increases as with the oned balance of Ruprecht , or decreases as with a bal of Collot designed to carry a load kilograms on each pan:\mdash ; 1 .
2 .
4 .
8 . . .
29,879 .
38,069 .
62,640 grm . . . .
secs .
secs .
secs .
secs .
secs .
In this case the variation of in relation to corresponds in firs approximation to a hyperl ) with an asymptote or , a combi nation of the preceding ( a ) and ( b ) .
III .
Variation of ) ooith the of the Sensib , lity of a Balance If increases , all other collditions being the same , then and decrease as the balance of Nemetz .
grams . . . . . . . . .
mgrms .
mgrms . . . . . . . . .
secs .
secs . . . . . . . . .
IV .
of Time Oscillation depending upon the Friction of the Knije-edges against the three When the pans and movable parts used for suspending them nre removed and the alance beam alone is , there is iction only at the middle , :md the time of one oscillation is shortened , as with the above mentioned balances of Collot and echt ; for the latter we have found\mdash ; patls but without load .
Beam onJy . . . . . . . . .
1231 grms. 678 grms. . . . . . . . .
mgrms .
mgrms . . . . . . . . .
secs .
secs .
If in the balance of Nemetz the pans are suspended from the beam , : Investigatio ns on the of Balances .
459 we put in tJle place of the middle plaue ( the knife-edges being of flint ) planes of the same size but of different materiaI , we a change in the time of the oscillation ; from -two oscilIations in each case we have obtained following mean results -- grams ) : \mdash ; Matel.ial of the Time of one middle plane .
oscillalion , Hard steel . . . . . . . .
secs .
Agate . . . . . . . . . . . .
, , Copper . . . . .
- . . . .
, , . . . . . . . . . . . .
, , 1iThat is to say , the ti1ne of one cillation in the last case is one-half of that when an agate plane is used , although the load and the ( position of the centre of gravity were same in both cases .
1 Therefore the experiment shows a great dependence of the time of lIone oscillation decrement and of the sensibility from the friction of the knife-edges , although usually it is assu1ned that and do not Idirectly depend upon the friction .
rther experiments are 1on , especially as regards the changes found in the value of the of and upon the ensions of the Horizontal Section of the Load .
If we put on the pans of the Ruprecht 's balance two platinumiiridium poonds ( Russian ) ( cylinders of which the height and d equal and the grams ) , we find about secs .
, and about ; replacing these by plates of square cm .
section of the sa ] le rams ) , find about secs .
, and about VI .
Variation of and the of the } } of the Load .
VII .
flltence of of the of , and .
The Inner iciion of the Gas xuhich the going on .
The experiments will be continued and extended , and I hope to cobtain results which will t 1nore light on the litble explored )regions of the oscillation of a balance considel.ed as a } ) pendulum of peculiar perties .
Some results will probably be to But , for the momen , I would not likc to any Lgeneralisations .
Bessel and F. Bailey , 1832 : " " \ldquo ; VOL. LXIII .

