III .
Note to a paper entitled " Contributions to the Anatomy of the Brachiopoda , " read June 15 , 1854 .
By THOMAS H. HUXLEY , Esq. , F.R.S. Received February 12 , 1855 .
My attention having been called within the last two or three days , to an error in my paper on the Anatomy of the Brachiopoda , published in No. 5 of the Royal Society 's Proceedings , I beg to be allowed to take the earliest opportunity of correcting it .
At p. 111 of that paper the following paragraph will be found : ' In 1843 , however , M. Vogt 's elaborate Memoir on Lingula appeared , in which the true complex structure of the 'heart ' in this genus was first explained and the plaited 'auricle ' discriminated from the 'ventricle ; ' and in 1845 , Professor Owen , having apparently been thus led to re-examine the circulatory organs of the Brachiopoda , " &amp;c. &amp;c. Now , in point of fact , though M. Vogt does describe and accurately figure the structures called 'auricle ' and ' ventricle ' in Lingula* , yet he has not only entirely omitted to perceive their connexion , or to indicate the ' auricular ' nature of the former , but he expressly states that the so-called ' hearts ' are " simple , delicate , pyriform sacs " ( p. 13 ) .
I presume that my recollection of M. Vogt 's figures was more vivid than that of his text ; for having been unable , notwithstanding repeated endeavours , to re-obtain the memoir when writing my paper , I felt justified in trusting to what seemed my very distinct recollection of its sense .
I had the less hesitation in doing this , as in M. Vogt 's subsequently published ' Zoologische Brief * , ' he gives the received interpretation to the parts of the so-called 'hearts ' without any indication of a change of opinion .
I make this statement in explanation of what might otherwise seem to be great carelessness on my part , and for the purpose of further pointing out that M. Vogt not having made the supposed discovery , it is quite impossible that Professor Owen 's researches should have been suggested by it .

