97 Solar Eclipse Expedition to , Tunis .
By Professor L. Becker , Ph. D. , F.R.S.E. , F.R.A.S. ( Received November 11 , 1905 .
) When the Court of the University of Glasgow made to me an unsolicited grant of \#163 ; 50 to see the eclipse , I decided to take active part in its observation , though in a small way .
Together with Mr. Franklin-Adams I accepted the invitation of Mr. Andrew Crookston , Glasgow , to observe it at his mines at Kalaa-es-Senam , Tunis .
The station lies 33 m. 30 s. east of Greenwich ( from map ) at a latitude of 35 ' 45 ' 19 " as determined from pole-star observations .
Its altitude above sea-level is 953 metres .
It is about 40 miles from Morsott , a station on the railway from Bona to-Tebessa .
I set myself the problem to determine from a series of correctly-timed photographs the law according to which the light of the corona decreases withi the distance from the sun .
I designed mechanisms by which 10 exposures are automatically made on one plate , the mechanisms being governed electrically by a pendulum clock .
I employed two cameras , one with a Cooke triple achromatic lens of 3^ inches aperture and 60 inches focal length , which belongs to the Glasgow spectrograph , the other with a Ross portrait lens of 2 inches aperture and 12 inches focal length .
They were fed by a ccelostat of 8 inches aperture , which had been kindly lent to me by the Royal Dublin Society .
In front of the two object-glasses a rotating shutter was mounted which served both cameras .
The rotating shutter has four oblong apertures , 90 ' apart ; it is rotated by clockwork driven by a spring , and its motion is governed by the armature of an electromagnet .
When the armature is attracted the shutter rotates through 45 ' , bringing an opening opposite the object-glasses , and when it is released it turns again 45 ' , when the shutter shuts off the light .
The contacts are made by a pendulum clock , and they are so devised that make or break can occur only when the pendulum is at or near its position of rest .
I arranged for live exposures of 1 second duration , and five exposures lasting respectively 3 , 9 , 20 , 46 , and 89 seconds .
Their actual durations are 0'86 , 0'82 , 0'80 , 0-82 , 0'87 , 2-82 , 9-02 , 20'84 , 45-91 , and 89-04 seconds , as determined automatically on the chronograph .
At the first four exposures of 1 second , different screens , each with 13 holes , are in front of the object-glasses .
At the first exposure the screen leaves about one-sixteenth of the object-VOL .
LXXVII.\#151 ; A. II .98 Prof. L. Becker .
[ Nov. 11 , glasses free , at the second one-eighth , at the third one-fourth , and at the fourth one-half .
These screens are geared to the clockwork which rotates the shutter .
The plate-holder of the Cooke camera is 17 x 3 inches , it slides lengthways inside a metal box 32 x 4 inches .
It is moved by rack and pinion , the rack being attached to the plate-holder and the bearings of the axis of the pinion being fixed to the box .
Spring-driven clockwork communicates its motion by means of a shaft to the pinion .
The clockwork is governed by the armature of an electro-magnet ; when the armature is attracted the plate-holder moves 1 inch onwards , and when it is released it moves another inch .
The necessary contacts are made by the pendulum clock .
The same mechanism actuates on the plate-liolder of the small camera , only the steps are correspondingly smaller .
I arranged the contacts in such a way that for the first four exposures the plate moved one step onwards , for all the others two steps , and when the plate had been slid along I allowed 2 seconds for the camera to settle before the next exposure was made .
Of the 206 seconds for which I made provision , 173 seconds are occupied by the exposures , 15 seconds are taken up by changing of plates , and 18 seconds are lost .
Owing to reasons which I need not explain here , I did not unpack the boxes until August 26 .
Unfortunately , I found the automatic apparatus damaged , though it had been carefully packed , but not sufficiently for a journey on a road like that from Morsott to Kalaa .
I repaired the damage as well as I could on the 27th , and adjusted the ccelostat on the 28th .
On the 29th a southern gale made all observations impossible , and , in fact , all apparatus except the ccelostat had to be dismounted and taken indoors .
On the morning of the eclipse they were re-erected and tried , not , however , with the plate-holders , because I was afraid that the plates , which had been placed inside the plate-holders , would be spoiled by the heat .
When the signal of the beginning of totality was given , I set the pendulum in motion , and all went right until the fifth exposure ( 1 second ) was finished , then the plates advanced only one step instead of two , and the same took place after the next exposure ( 9 seconds ) ; between the seventh exposure , of 3 seconds , and the eighth exposure , of 89 seconds , the propelling mechanism failed to move the plates .
Before the last two exposures , of 21 seconds and 46 seconds , the plates were moved on their proper amount .
In consequence , the two exposures of 89 seconds and 3 seconds are superposed , giving one of 92 seconds , and the images belonging to the fifth , sixth , and seventh \#166 ; exposures are at half the distance from one another that I had meant them to be .
The irregularity was caused by friction of some damaged parts of the mechanisms .
I developed the plates the same night , the two plates of the 1905 .
] Eclipse Expedition to K Tunis .
99 Cooke camera , which are cut from the same full plate , and the small plate of the Eoss camera being put in the same developing tray for seven minutes .
The result is very satisfactory .
Each camera has furnished nine pictures of the corona instead of the ten arranged for .
Eight photos by the Cooke camera are fine from the pictorial point of view , especially the five of 1 second exposure and that of 21 seconds .
The focus appears to be correct , and the coelostat has performed excellently .
For the 92 seconds exposure the photographic plate was too small .
It will be difficult to reproduce the negatives on one plate on account of the densities of the background of the various negatives , which increase with the exposure .
There is direct evidence that the light which illuminated the field came from the coelostat mirror , and though the sky was unexpectedly bright , I think it must be attributed to coronal light diffusely reflected by the large whitish dust particles which were always settling on the mirror .
I might have suppressed this background by judicious developing had it not been my aim to introduce nothing that I could not exactly reproduce at home .
The long-exposure photographs obtained with the Eoss portrait camera are over-exposed , that of 90 seconds to such an extent that the corona close to the moon 's limb and the protuberances are reversed .
Since my return home I have measured the plates and reduced the measurements .
Experiments will be undertaken without delay from which I can derive the relation which connects time of exposure and intensity of radiation for the same degree of blackness on the photographic film .
I shall employ the same photographic plates and develop them in the same wTay as the eclipse photographs .
vol. lxxvii.\#151 ; a. i

