462 The Influence of Phase Changes on the Tenacity of Ductile Metals at the Ordinary Temperature and at the Boiling Point of Liquid Air .
By G. T. Beilby and H. 1ST .
Beilby , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Professor J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received July 20 , 1905 .
) [ Plate 5 .
] The study of tenacity in metals has had so direct a bearing on the practical problems of metallurgy and engineering , that there is some risk that its scientific importance may be overlooked or lost sight of .
It has occurred to us that the measurement of tenacity in solids may supply a direct means for the estimation of the cohesive force of the molecules at any given temperature , so that by the multiplication of observations at a variety of temperatures , it may become possible to estimate more and more closely the molecular cohesion at the absolute zero .
The early observations of Dewar on the increase of tenacity at the boiling point of liquid air made it clear for the first time that the nature of the relation between tenacity and temperature continues unchanged even at the lowest attainable temperatures .
The recent experiments of Hadfield supply further confirmation of this continuity .
The metals used by these observers were almost always in the annealed or crystalline condition .
Tenacity in metals is measured , as is well known , by the tension required to tear asunder a rod , bar , or wire of the material .
In ordinary mechanical tests of this kind it is assumed that the tensile stress is uniformly distributed over the whole surface at which rupture occurs ; but this is only approximately true in the most favourable cases , while in many cases it is obviously untrue , as , for instance , when the surface of fracture is large relatively to the length of the specimen , or when the material is not homogeneous .
It is not possible to experiment with a chain of single molecules , for even in the thinnest wire its smallest cross-section contains many millions of molecules .
It follows , therefore , that only in a perfectly rigid body can all the pairs of molecules be pulled directly apart as they would be in a single chain .
Any departure from perfect rigidity must involve that the molecules under strain will move over each other with a certain degree of freedom , as in the liquid state , and the rupture will become to some extent like that of a highly viscous liquid , e.g. , molten glass , in which the molecules evade any direct pull by slipping over each other .
The observations recorded in this paper are intended to prepare the way for a more direct attack on the problems of molecular cohesion , by the Influence of Phase Changes on Tenacity of Metals .
463 establishment of clearer views as to the influence of changes of phase on the tenacity of ductile metals at various temperatures .
In a former paper on " The Hard and Soft States in Metal , " * the changes of state\#151 ; from hard to soft and from soft to hard\#151 ; were shown to be due to the changes of phase brought about in the one case by heat , and in the other by mechanical deformation or flow .
In most , if not all , of the ductile metals the amorphous is the hard phase and the crystalline is the soft .
This is contrary to the usually accepted ideas on the subject , for hardness and brittleness are generally supposed to be specially associated with the crystalline properties in metals .
In reality the softest metals are those which pass most readily into the crystalline condition , and when in this condition they are at their softest stage .
This particular softness is due to the readiness with which the crystals can be broken down again into the amorphous state ; the crystalline is the phase of maximum instability under mechanical disturbance , while the amorphous is the thermally unstable phase .
The ductile metals may be described as those which pass most readily from phase to phase : they are equally unstable mechanically and thermally .
Mechanical instability , and the phase-change on which it depends , is well illustrated in the stretching of wires under tension .
Annealed wires , which are in the C phase , stretch when they are stressed beyond their yield point ; hardened wires , which are partly in the A phase , do not stretch\#151 ; they break without extension when their limit of tenacity is reached .
The homogeneous C phase as it occurs in a ductile metal which has been heated above the transition temperature , has no true breaking point ; it yields and stretches when stressed beyond the elastic limit , and in so doing it passes partly into the A phase , and when rupture takes place it does so at the breaking stress of the mixed structure .
The conditions under which this phase-change occurs may be very different , and the properties and structure of the mixture of phases which results vary with these altering conditions .
A wire which has been hardened by simple stretching is different from one which has been hardened by hammering or by wire-drawing .
The tenacity of the mixed structure which results from plastic yielding which has taken place under favourable circumstances , approaches , but never quite reaches , the tenacity of the homogeneous A phase .
To ascertain the true maximum tenacity of a pure metal it would be necessary to obtain it in this homogeneous condition .
For the purpose we had in view it was necessary to obtain the metals as nearly as possible in this condition .
It had previously been foundj- that only in the thinnest surface layers\#151 ; probably from 50 to * ' Phil. Mag. , ' August , 1904 .
t Loc .
cit. 464 Messrs. G. T. Beilby and H. N. Beilby .
[ July 20 500 micro-millimetres in thickness\#151 ; was it possible to obtain the metal in a perfectly structureless condition .
Gold foil when beaten till it covers several times its original area becomes covered with a hard vitreous-looking surface film of extreme thinness , but the lightest of etching on this surface is sufficient to disclose a granular layer of mixed phases , and below this layer farther etching discloses the broken remains of crystalline grains and lamellae .
By wire-drawing it is possible to destroy all traces of crystalline structure such as grains , lamellae , or similarly oriented units , and to reduce the whole substance to a granular-looking condition .
But in this condition the metal is not reduced to the homogeneous A phase , it is still an intimate mixture of the two phases .
In a galvanic couple , consisting of the two phases of the same metal in a suitable solvent , the A phase dissolves before the C phase , which is , therefore , left as a skeleton of the former mixed structure .
This then is what occurs when a hard-drawn wire is suitably etched , the vitreous surface layer dissolves first and discloses the granular structure below .
By the continued action of the solvent the matrix in which the granules are embedded is removed , and these minute specks of C phase are left in the form of an extremely open structure .
After a wire has been stretched to four or five times its original length by drawing it through the conical holes of a wire plate , the substance of the metal is entirely reduced to the granular condition .
Plate 5 , fig. 1 , a is a photograph of a gold wire which has been etched after drawing .
The flow lines near the surface consist of rows of granules , b , on the same photograph , shows the effect of heating another piece of the same wire to about 400 ' .
Removal of the surface by etching now discloses the fully developed crystalline grains with their differently oriented lamellae .
The thermal transformation from A to G has taken place and the wire is restored to the soft condition .
Pigs .
2 and 3 are photomicrographs at higher magnifications , which show the details of structure more fully .
Pig .
2 is the granular structure by oblique light at a magnification of 250 , and Pig .
3 is the crystalline structure by normal light , at a magnification of 700 .
The granular structure in 2 is so minute that it absorbs the normal illuminating rays to such an extent that it is not possible to obtain a satisfactory resolution by lenses of high numerical aperture .
The granules seen on the photograph are not really the ultimate units , they are only aggregates of these .
Pig .
3 shows very clearly the way in which each crystalline grain is built up of similarly oriented lamellae , the orientation in each grain being different .
Heating merely to the transition temperature , while it changes the phase and softens the metal , does not quickly develop a well-marked crystalline 1905 .
] Influence of Phase Changes on Tenacity of Metals .
465 structure .
This requires either a long time at the low temperature or the application of a considerably higher temperature for a short time .
The mechanical instability increases as the crystalline grains become larger and more fully developed , the yield point , therefore , varies with the condition of crystalline development .
As the primary object of these experiments was to bring each of the metals used into its highest state of tenacity , various methods of wire-drawing were tried to find that which would give the best results .
It was realised that so long as the actual tension on the wire was accurately observed and its cross section accurately measured , those results which gave the highest tenacity were the best and most trustworthy .
Under these conditions there was no danger of obtaining too high a result for any given metal , indeed , all the chances were the other way .
But the purity of the metals was of great importance , for it is well known that minute traces of impurity may seriously affect the mechanical properties .
The metals used were , gold of a purity of 9997 parts per 10,000 , silver of a purity of 10,000 parts per 10,000 , and copper of a guaranteed conductivity of over 100 per cent. It was recognised that the purity of the copper was probably not quite of the same order as that of the gold and silver .
The tenacity tests were made by directly loading the stretched wire by a water load , so that the speed of loading and its smoothness could be easily regulated .
In the experiments at the boiling point of liquid air , the wire with both grips was fully submerged in the liquid during the entire test .
The extension was measured after the broken wires were removed from the grips .
The diameter of the wires was measured by a micrometer screw gauge .
For each wire the mean of a large number of measurements was taken , the measurements being usually taken in pairs on two diameters at right angles to each other .
All the tenacity tests were made on wires of from 0'38 to 055 mm. After annealing at a temperature rather above the transition point , the wire was drawn through a series of holes till it reached the desired diameter .
The reduction of diameter and the increase of length were as a rule both directly measured .
Wires were stretched in this way to as much as 15 times their original length when annealed .
The minimum amount of stretching used was 1'4 times .
It was found possible to over-draw a wire so that its tenacity having passed a certain maximum began definitely to fall off .
The highest tenacity in gold was developed by drawing it to 3| times its original length , but by drawing it to as much as 13 times the tenacity was only slightly reduced .
The maximum tenacities recorded at the ordinary temperature were\#151 ; gold 15-6 tons per square inch , silver 25*7 tons and copper 28-4 tons .
Messrs. G. T. Beilby and H. N. Beilby .
[ July 20 At the boiling point of liquid air ( \#151 ; 182 ' ) the maxima were\#151 ; Gold 22-4 tons per square inch , silver 34*4 tons , and copper 36 tons .
At the ordinary temperature none of the wires showed any general stretching .
There was a slight extension of from 0-5 to 1 per cent. , due entirely to a sharp reduction of diameter at the actual point of rupture .
The diameter of the wires after breaking confirmed that there had been no general stretching .
At the boiling point of liquid air all the wires stretched from 11 to 12 per cent. This stretching affected the whole length of wire between the grips , and the diameter was correspondingly reduced .
The tenacity was therefore always calculated on this reduced diameter .
The granular texture after this second stretching appeared slightly finer than that of the wires which broke without stretching , and it is believed that this revival of plasticity at the lower temperature is due to the further breaking down of the granules of C phase , which is rendered possible by the increased hardness and tenacity of the A phase .
If the second stretching had taken place under the more favourable conditions of wire-drawing , it seems probable that there would have been a corresponding increase of the maximum tenacity at the low temperature .
We propose to test this question by actually drawing wires at the boiling point of liquid air .
In this connection it is to be noted that experiments on wire-drawing at temperatures above 15 ' produced wires of lower tenacity ; it appears probable , therefore , that for each metal there is a certain temperature at which wire-drawing will produce the maximum tenacity , and that , in the metals here referred to , that temperature is considerably below 15 ' , perhaps even below \#151 ; 182 ' .
The maximum tenacities recorded by Dewar and Hadfield are:\#151 ; At the ordinary temperature , gold 15*1 tons per square inch , silver 19*5 tons , and copper 15 tons .
At the boiling point of liquid air , gold 20*1 tons , silver 24*8 tons , and copper 20*1 tons .
With the exception of the figures for gold , these tenacities are all considerably lower than those we have obtained .
This was only to be expected , for the above tests on copper were made on the metal in the annealed condition .
In the case of gold some further explanation appears to be called for .
The tenacity of pure gold in the annealed state was found by Boberts-Austen to be 7 tons per square inch , * so that the specimen used in the observations by Dewar , if of equal purity , must have been in the hard-drawn , not in the annealed or crystalline condition .
A study of the form and appearance of the fractured ends of the wires used in our experiments reveals several points of interest .
In every case the * ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 179 ( 1888 ) , p. 339 .
1905 .
] Influence of Phase Changes on Tenacity of Metals .
467 copper wires showed the cupped formation at the fractured ends .
This formation is evidently due to the lower tenacity , of the central core , which breaks before the outer skin has completely given way .
The skin , therefore , appears like a.sleeve pulled over the fractured ends of the core on both pieces .
The weakness of the core is caused by the presence of gases , which no doubt originally appeared as bubbles , but which have been drawn out into fine tubes during the wire-drawing .
The minute holes dotted all over the broken ends of the core are distinctly visible with a low power objective .
From the nature of the fracture it is evident that this fibrous or cellular core is a source of weakness and must considerably reduce the tenacity of the metal .
It is possible that the flowing action to which the metal has been subjected may have caused the disengagement of occluded or dissolved gases at the moment of the passage of the C into the A phase .
A proportion of the gas disengaged would naturally be driven in towards the centre of the wire , as the outer skin must be comparatively impervious .
The silver wires occasionally showed a slight cupped formation , but in this case the structure appeared due to the presence of minute bubbles of gas , as if these had been given out at the moment of fracture .
In the main the fractured ends present the appearance to be expected from an extremely viscous and fairly homogeneous solid .
The gold wires were practically free from gases , and their fracture was almost perfectly viscous .
Fig. 4 is a photograph of the fractured ends of a gold wire , one of which has been slightly etched , to show the stream lines marked out by granules .
Q-old.\#151 ; Purity , 9997 parts in 10,000 .
Diameter of wires tested , 0*55 and 0'54 mm. Tenacity , tons per square inch , at 15 ' .
-182 ' .
Annealed at 320 ' and then drawn to 13 i times its original length without further annealing 14 -6 15 -6 22 -4 Annealed at 320 ' and then drawn to 3^ times its original length without further annealing In the first test at 15 ' the wire broke without any general stretching .
In the test at \#151 ; 182 ' there was a general stretch of 11-| per cent. , and the diameter was reduced accordingly .
The tenacity is therefore calculated on this reduced diameter .
The second test shows that the first wire had been weakened by overdrawing .
VOL. lxxvi.\#151 ; a. 2 K 468 Influence of Phase Changes on Tenacity of Silver.\#151 ; Purity , 10,000 parts in 10,000 .
Diameter of wires tested , 0*55 and 0*46 mm. Tenacity , square 15 ' .
tons per inch , at -182 ' .
Annealed at 300 ' and then drawn to 13^ times its original length without further annealing 25 -7 22 -5 34-4 A piece of the same wire further drawn to 1*4 times its length In the first test at 15 ' the wire broke without any general stretching .
In the test at \#151 ; 182 ' there was a general stretch of 11 per cent. The tenacity was therefore calculated on the reduced diameter .
The result of the second test of the further drawn wire makes it probable that the first wire had been over-drawn .
Copper.\#151 ; 100 per cent , conductivity .
Diameter of wires tested , 0*54 , 0*46 , 0*425 , and 0*38 mm. Tenacity , tons per square inch , at 15 ' .
-182 ' .
Annealed at 300 ' and drawn to 5| times its original length without further annealing .
This wire is referred to as ( a ) 28 -4 36 A piece of ( \lt ; z ) further drawn to 1*4 times its length 27 -1 A piece of ( a ) further drawn to 1*7 times its length 27 -4 A piece of ( a ) annealed at 300 ' and drawn to 1*4 times its length 22-0 The same further drawn to 1*7 times its original length 23 -7 The same further drawn to 2*1 times its original length 25 -9 In all the tests at 15 ' the wire broke without any general stretching .
In the test at \#151 ; 182 ' there was a general stretch of 12 per cent. The tenacity was therefore calculated on the reduced diameter .
The further tests show that the full tenacity is not reached by drawing to 2T times the original length after annealing .
Taken in conjunction with the gold test , however , it would appear that a stretching of three to four times is sufficient to develop the maximum tenacity .
Beilby .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , vol76\#151 ; a , Plate 5 .
Crystalline surface of 6 .
Magnification x 700 .
Fractured ends of same wire as a. c Surface removed by etching .
cl Natural surface .
Hard-drawn Gold

