PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
rf\A/ V\AATVAAA/ V/ \A/ W \/ VVV\/ VVVVV ' March 1 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates for election into the Society were read , as follows:\#151 ; John Anderson , M.D. , E.R.S.E. , F.L.S. John Attfield , Ph. D. , E.C.S. Francis Maitland Balfour , F.L.S. Charles Barry , Pres. R.I.B.A. Prof. Robert Bentley , F.L.S. Walter Lawry Buller , Sc. D. , F.L.S. George Chesney , Lieut.-Col. R.E. William Chimmo , Capt. R.N. Prof. James Henry Cotterill , M.A. Rev. William Henry Dallinger .
Herbert Davies , M.D. Prof. James Dewar , M.A. Sir Thomas Fairbairn , Bart. Sir Joseph Fairer , M.D. , K.C.S.I. Rev. Norman Macleod Ferrers , M.A. George Fleming , M.R.C.Y.S. Thomas Richard Fraser , M.D. , F.R.S.E. William Galloway .
Henry Haversham Godwin-Austen , Major .
Rev. William Greenwell , M.A. , F.S.A. George Griffith , M.A. Brian Haughton Hodgson , F.L.S. John Hopkinson , M.A. , D.Sc .
John Hughlings Jackson , M.D. , F.R.C.S. John W. Judd , F.G.S. William Carmichael MTntosh , M.D. , F.L.S. Robert M'Lachlan , F.L.S. Richard Henry Major , Sec. R.G.S. Prof. John William Mallet , Ph. D. Henry B. Medlicott , M.A. , F.G.S. Henry Nottidge Moseley , M.A. William Donald Napier , M.R.C.S. Prof. Henry Alleyne Nicholson , M.D. , Ph. D. , D.Sc .
Richard Norris , M.D. 2 Messrs. J. H. Gladstone A. Tribe on the Thomas Bevill Peacock , M.D. , E.E.C.S. William Overend Priestley , M.D. , E. E.C.P. Charles Bland Eadcliffe , M.D. , F. E.C.P. Prof. Osborne Eeynolds , M.A. , C.E. Samuel Eoberts , M.A. William Eoberts , B.A. , M.D. George P. Eodwell , F.E.A.S. , E.C.S. George John Eomanes , M.A. Sir Sidney Smith Saunders , C.M.G. Edward A. Schafer , M.E.C.S. Michael Scott , M.Inst .
C.E. [ Mar. 1 , Samuel Sharp , E.G.S. , E.S.A. John Spiller , E.C.S. Hermann Sprengel , Ph. D. George James Symons , Sec. M.S. Prof. James Thomson , M.A. , LL. D. , D.Sc .
Charles S. Tomes , M.A. Edwin T. Truman , M.E.C.S. Prof. William Turner , M.B. , M.E.C.S. Thomas Lord Walsingham .
Benjamin Williamson , M.A. Prof. John Wilson , E.E.S.E. , E.G.S. Baron Henry de Worms , E.E.A.S. The following Papers were read:\#151 ; X. ( tNote on the Electrolytic Conduction of some Organic Bodies .
" By J. H. Gladstone , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution , and Alfred Tribe , E.C.S. , Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Received January 27 , 1877 .
During our early researches* on the copper-zinc couple it naturally occurred to us that we were employing a special means of electrolysis acting at insensible distances ; but the first organic substances which we succeeded in decomposing by means of this agent were such as are usually considered non-electrolytic\#151 ; for instance , iodide of ethyl ; and we obtained the remarkable result that when some of these were mixed with alcohol they were much more readily decomposed , although pure alcohol itself is not attacked by the couple of dissimilar metals .
From time to time we experimented with external batteries of 10 or 50 cells of Grove , in order to obtain some direct evidence of the electrolyzability of these compounds in the ordinary way , but with only negative results .
On the 26th of April , 1875 , however , we made a series of experiments , employing 100 Grove 's cells , and obtained results which we did not pursue further at the time , but which we think interesting , especially in -connexion with the experiments on other but similar bodies which Dr. Bleekrode has lately communicated to the Eoyal Society , and a short notice of which appears in the last Number of its ' Proceedings .
' We used for the experiments a glass tube , about 5 millims. diameter , closed at one end , into which were fused two platinum wires , about * Proe .
Roy .
Soc. 1872 , p. 218 .
Journ. Chem. Soc. 1873 , pp. 445 , 678 , 961 ; 1874 , pp. 208 , 406 , 410 , 615 ; 1875 , p. 508 .
1877 .
] Electrolytic Conduction of some Organic Bodies .
1 millim. apart .
The liquids were placed in this tube , and the wires connected with the terminal wires of the battery , an ordinary astatic galvanometer being placed in the circuit .
The results obtained are as follows:\#151 ; Ethyl Iodide.\#151 ; Nil .
Alcohol.\#151 ; On making contact the galfanometer-needle showed a deflection of 20 ' , and a slight commotion of the liquid was observable .
The alcohol gradually warmed up until it boiled , the deflection of the needle increasing the whole time .
Gas was apparently given off in minute quantity from the negative electrode ; but it was difficult to be certain of this .
Equal volumes of Alcohol and Ethyl Iodide.\#151 ; There was a deflection of 30 ' on making contact , gradually rising .
Great commotion ensued , the liquid rapidly circulating round the poles , as in the annexed diagram , accompanied by a browning of the liquid .
Not certain about the evolution of gas\#151 ; apparently a few minute bubbles from the positive pole .
The liquid boiled in about 4 minutes , the deflection being then 60 ' .
Ethyl Bromide.\#151 ; Nil .
Equal volumes of Alcohol and Ethyl Bromide.\#151 ; Violent commotion on making contact , the galvanometer being deflected to the stops .
The liquid quickly boiled .
Gas apparently given off from the negative electrode .
Chloroform.-\#151 ; Nil .
Equal volumes of Alcohol and Chloroform.\#151 ; Violent commotion .
Deflection to stops .
The mixture very quickly boiled .
- Ethyl Acetate , Propylene Bromide , Amyl and Isobutyl Iodides gave negative results .
When mixed with equal volumes of alcohol they behave similarly to the mixtures referred to above . .
Our results , preliminary as we considered them to be , show that the iodides of ethyl , isobutyl , and amyl , the bromides of ethyl and propylene , the acetate of ethyl , and chloroform are practically non-conductors to a battery-power of 100 cells Grove , and that alcohol is to some extent 4 Mr. F. Darwin on the Protrusion of [ Mar. 1 , traversed by the current .
They show also that when these liquid nonconductors are mixed with the feeble conductor alcohol , the conductivity of the mixture is greater than that of alcohol alone , which offers at least a partial clue to the readiness with which such mixtures are decomposed by the .copper-zinc couple .
The very considerable development of heat in these liquids , which conduct the electric current with great difficulty , is a circumstance worthy of notice .
In these cases it is evident that it does not result from any chemical change , because the decomposition , if any thing at all , is utterly insignificant in amount .
II .
uOn the Protrusion of Protoplasmic Filaments from the Glandular Hairs of the Common Teasel ( By Francis Darwin , M.B. Communicated by Charles Darwin , F.R.S. Received January 30 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) The protoplasmic structures described in the following communication are connected with the glandular hairs or trichomes found on both surfaces of the leaf of the common teasel ( sylvestris ) .
The trichomes are of two kinds , differing in a marked manner in shape .
The form of gland from which alone the protoplasmic filaments issue is shown in the diagram .
The gland consists of a multicellular pear-shaped head , supported on a cylindrical unicellular stalk which rests on a projecting epidermic cell .
The whole structure projects about ^ of a millimetre ( -dk inch ) above the surface of the leaf .
The filaments issue from inside the gland-cells , reaching the surrounding medium by passing through the external cell-wall of the gland .
The point where protrusion takes place is on the summit of the gland , and usually at the point of junction of several radiating cells at the centre of its dome-like surface .
The act of protrusion is rapidly effected ; a previously naked gland may be seen to send forth a minute thread of trembling protoplasm , projecting from its summit freely into the surrounding water .
The filament grows by clearly visible increments , and may ultimately attain the length of nearly one millimetre .
The filaments appear to pass through the substance of the external cell-wall of the glands , as no apertures to allow of their passage have been observed .
Under normal circumstances the filament presents the appearance of a delicate and elongated thread slightly clubbed at its free end , and animated by the perpetual tremble of Brownian movement .
The distal end of the filament is often attached to the gland , thus forming a loop .
Extremely delicate filaments of great length are often seen entangled in elaborate and complex knots , or several filaments may be seen issuing from a single gland .

