461 The Theory of Photographic Pro , Part III : The Latent Image and its Destruction .
{ Abridged Account .
) By S. E. Sheppard , D.Sc .
, and C. E. K. Mees , D.Se .
( Communicated by Sir William Bamsay , K.C.B. , F.B.S. Beceived September 19 , __ Bead December 6 , 1906 .
) The following abridged account summarises the results of an investigation to be published in a more extended form subsequently .
It deals with the formation of so-called " latent images " on photo-films , their destruction by chemical agents , and the bearing of these results upon the nature of the ight-product in silver halides and its function in promoting reduction .
Part I.\#151 ; The Developable Condition in Halide Emulsions .
The essential chemical reaction in development may be typified by the equation Ag + B'^Ag ( met.)-f-B ' .
It is somewhat difficult to give a comprehensive and characteristic definition of development which shall distinguish it from normal reduction of silver ions to the metallic state , the more so that the word develop is used in such varied senses .
For present purposes the following is probably sufficient .
Developability is brought about when a preliminary treatment accelerates a subsequent reduction with reducing agents .
It is , perhaps , impossible to draw a line of strict demarcation , but the inner mechanism will be clearer in the sequel .
An investigation by one of the authors* has shown that the aforementioned reaction in development is reversible .
Independently , then , of " developability " the reaction Ag+B'^Ag + B ' proceeds to a state of equilibrium .
But it does not follow that metallic silver is precipitated .
Unless the potential of the reducing ion is very high , the metallic silver may remain in solution .
Two further eventualities are possible .
A colloidal silver solution may be formed , stable under certain conditions , but liable to coagulation by electrolytes .
Or there may be some cause lowering the meta-stable limit , so that metallic silver is precipitated .
In the presence of solid silver with normal reducing agents complete reduction of the gelatino-halide grain is ensured , f in agreement with the " silver-germ " theory of development.^ Any cause tending to lower the meta-stable limit of the silver solution makes the halide developable .
The aforementioned investigation showed that the reduction in * 'Chem .
Soc. Trans. , ' 1905 , vol. 87 , p. 1317 .
+ 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1905 , vol. 76 , p. 217 : " Theory of Photographic Processes , Part TI .
X ' Chem. Soc. Trans. , ' loc. cit. VOL. LXXVIII.\#151 ; A. 2 I Drs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Sept. 19 , development could be divided into two periods , an initial induction , the length of which depended chiefly on chemical processes , and a second period , in which the velocity depends chiefly on the supply of reducing ions to the affected grains .
A number of substances , if introduced into the grain in very intimate mixture\#151 ; probably as a solid solution*\#151 ; can greatly shorten the induction period and bring about developability .
We found that the following could act as " germs " for a dry-plate:\#151 ; ( a ) Silver , introduced as colloidal silver by treatment with silver nitrate solution and then Carey Lea 's ferrous citrate solution .
Dilute HC1 was then applied , converting the colloidal silver to metallic , and in a developer reduction proceeded forthwith .
( b ) Gold , by the action of gold chloride on the gelatin film .
( c ) Platinum , to some extent as with gold , and better by the action of ferrous oxalate .
( \lt ; i ) Silver sulphide , by the action of polysulphides and of acid thiosulphate with ferrous oxalate .
( e ) Gas ions from flame gases with a plate soaked in developer .
That the shortening of a chemical induction period by lowering the metastable limit is the essential factor in developability appears to be confirmed by the following .
Gelatino-silver nitrate , jellified with 10-per-cent , gelatin , gave , with certain precautions , on treatment with ammoniaeal pyrogallol , or better , ferrous fluoride , rings of metallic silver deposited at regular intervals , in addition to a general coloured deposit .
The former are the well-known Liesegang 's rings , f considered by Ostwald as a confirmation of his theory of a meta-stable limit , and quantitatively investigated for silver chromate by Morse and Pierce .
} : Non-emulsified Silver Halide and the Function of Gelatin.\#151 ; An investigation of the action of light and reducing agents on pure precipitated silver bromide layers confirmed the statements of Abney and Schaum , S that gelatin mechanically or chemically retards reduction by developers .
; Now , Jaff6 , || in some studies on supersaturation , found that the " life " of a solution was always prolonged by repeated preliminary filtration .
The removal of " germs " mechanically raised the meta-stable limit .
Our experiments point to the gelatin functioning as a protective sheath against " germ infection , " thus * Cf .
H. Weisz , ' Zeit .
phys .
Chem. , ' 1906 , vol. 54 , p. 305 .
t ' Chemische Reaktionen in Gallerten ' ( Diisseldorf ) .
1 ' Zeit .
phys .
Chem. , ' 1904 , vol. 45 , p. 600 .
S ' Zeit .
wiss .
Phot .
, ' 1904 , vol. 1 , p. 377 .
|| 'Zeit .
phys .
Chem. , ' 1903 , vol. 43 , p. 565 .
1906 .
] The Theory of Photographic Processes .
463 mechanically retarding redaction .
In part , also , it forms solid solutions with the halide , and complex ions with the silver ion , both additional helps to the stability of the halide .
On the whole , the evidence tends to the conclusion that a necessary and sufficient condition for " developability " is the production in the silver halide grain of a new substance .
How , the developable condition may be induced by the action of various energies , which we may group as follows* : \#151 ; ( a ) Ether vibrations , from infra-red to ultra-violet .
( b ) Kontgen rays , kathode rays , and the / 3- and y-radiation of radio-active bodies .
( c ) Mechanical stress or pressure .
( d ) Heat .
( e ) Chemical action .
At present we will only consider the first , resulting in the ordinary photographic image .
To deal critically with the various theories , physical and chemical , as to its nature , would take too much space .
But it is almost impossible to account for the way in which the " latent " image interferes , with certain definite chemical reactions on any physical theory .
Such are the aforementioned abbreviation of an induction in reduction , the existence of an image capable of development after fixation , and , in particular , the destruction of the " latent " image by halogenising and oxidising agents .
We have made a somewhat extended investigation of the action of the latter and may collect our conclusions as follows .
Part II.\#151 ; The Destruction of the " Latent " Image .
Section A. The Action of Oxidisers Subsequent to Exposure .
It has frequently been maintained that halogenising and oxidising agents do not actually destroy the latent image , but only retard development .
Sterry , for example , considered that their effect was to delay what he termed " secondary development , " i.e. , an assumed intensification of a primarily formed image by silver from neighbouring granules .
Our experiments with chromic acid subsequent to exposure led to the following conclusions:\#151 ; Plates were dipped by rotation in Cr03 solution for a given time , then rinsed by rotation , and developed.^ The plate-curve was distorted at the top , but * See also C. Lea , ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1891 , p. 320 .
t J. Sterry , 'Phot .
Journ. , ' 1904 , vol. 54 , p. 50 .
X For the authors ' experimental methods , and for the meaning of the symbols log i and , etc. , see the previous papers , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1904 , vol. 74 , p. 447 , and A , 1905 , vol. 76 , p. 217 .
Drs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Sept. 19 , log i and y^were unchanged .
The velocity-constant K of development was diminished , approximately in proportion to the logarithm of the strength of the preliminary Cr03 bath .
Prolonged washing never entirely annulled the effect , but it was diminished .
The values of K ( the velocity of development ) decreased with the time of immersion in Cr03 , ultimately reaching a minimum for each concentration , the function of the effect on K being independent of the concentration .
From these facts we conclude that the Cr03 is irreversibly absorbed in the film , probably both to the film and to the silver halide , forming with the latter something of the nature of a solid solution .
Freshly precipitated AgBr is coloured yellow by chromic acid , and the colour is not removed by long washing .
The retained oxidiser then slows development by oxidising the developer in the film .
This view was further confirmed as follows .
Plates were treated , after " chromating , " with a solution of sodium sulphide , which restored K to its normal value by reducing the chromic acid .
This " sulphite reaction " enabled us to decide without doubt that the prolonged action of Cr03 destroyed the latent image , both log i and yx were altered .
After sulphiting , since K is now restored to its normal value , any change in y is due to a lessening of the mass of the latent image .
The following table exemplifies the results for N/ 50 Cr03 , with a subsequent bath of N/ 10 Na2S03 , all developed in M/ 20 quinol for five minutes:\#151 ; t = time of immersion in Cr03 in minutes .
t = 0 .
2 .
20 .
40 .
120 .
1-65 1-65 0-77 0*48 0-34 1*25 1-25 1*30 1*50 1-80 The rate- of attack on the latent image was found to increase very rapidly with the concentration of the Cr03 .
The phenomena point to a re-oxidation ( possibly involving the release of halogen from a combination with gelatin ) of a reduction product , the latter being in solid solution in the normal halide .
Section B. Desensitisers .
Plates bathed before exposure in certain metallic salt solutions show a diminished sensitiveness to light , even after prolonged washing.* We find that salts of the following cations are effective , the anion being unimportant:\#151 ; Cu " , Hg " , Fe ' " .
and ( UO2 ) " ' , whilst the following have no action :\#151 ; IT , K- , Ba " , Mg " , Mn- , Co " , Nr " , Fe " , Zu " , Mo " , Or- ( ?
) , Ag ' , Pb " , Th " " .
If plates are dipped in CuS(\gt ; 4 immediately prior to development with FeC204 , there is no action .
If left standing , yM is lowered , the latent image being destroyed in a * Luppo-Kramer , ' Wiss .
Arb .
auf d. Geb .
d. Phot .
' ( Knapp , Halle ) .
1906 .
] The Theory of Photographic Processes .
465 manner similar to the action of chromic acid .
But if dipped before exposure , the value of log iis greatly increased , i.e. , the sensitiveness diminished , but yx and K remain unchanged .
The peculiar behaviour of desensitisers might be referred to two categories : either ( a ) it alters the sensitive salt prior to exposure ; or it occurs during exposure by reversal of the photo-chemical reaction .
The first would agree with that theory of " ripening " which supposes this process produces a minute quantity of the photo-reduction product .
The second requires that some of the desensitising salt be retained in spite of prolonged washing , a view confirmed by some experiments with metol development .
The following experimental results , with ferrous oxalate development , fully bear out the theory that desensitisers act during exposure by reversal of the photochemical action , and not by any modification of the sensitive substance :\#151 ; ( i ) Moist and Dry Films.\#151 ; We have confirmed Sterry 's result : that moist films are less sensitive than dry ones , but have a higher \lt ; yx .
( ii ) Time of Immersion and Concentration.\#151 ; The effect , as measured by A log i , increases with the time of immersion , and on prolonged immersion weak solutions give the same effect as strong ones .
Conversely , different solutions , acting for the same time but with long washing out , give the same effect .
Otherwise this depends on the concentration and time .
( iii ) Fe-sensitising.\#151 ; By the action of a solution which combines with or reduces the desensitising ion , partial or complete resensitising may be obtained .
With copper salts , quinine and benzaldehyde act in this manner ; with ferric ions , oxalate solution , the ferric complex not being so effective .
Hence it appears probable that the desensitiser forms a solid solution or some combination with the silver salt , the maximum effect being for the limiting quantity absorbed .
For the relative effect the following results were obtained :\#151 ; Plates bathed in .
Water .
CuS04 .
( U02)(N03)2 .
FeCl3 .
HgCl2 .
Log i ... . .
1*95 0-50 0-59 P79 not \gt ; 2 Hence extent to which plate is made insensitive\#151 ; \#151 ; 3-6 44 69 \gt ; 100 The Mechanism of Desensitising.\#151 ; It is noteworthy that an effect may be obtained with very slight concentrations .
Thus with M/ 100,000 C11SO4 , with two hours ' immersion before exposure , we obtained log i ( unbalhed ) T60 , log i ( bathed ) 2*25 .
Drs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Sept. 19 , Hence , the desensitising effect of water is probably to be attributed to small quantities of impurities , and the action may give the clue to some of the troubles met with in emulsion-making , where the sensitiveness is sometimes found to drop for unknown reasons .
Further , if a plate containing CuS04 be exposed long enough to overcome the resistance introduced by the CuS04 and so give a full density , after a time the image again disappears .
A very small quantity of the desensitiser can thus continually destroy the latent image .
The action may be described as catalytic .
The metallic ions effective are all known to act as catalysts in oxidising and halogenising processes.* Substances such as stannous salts , quinine , mannite , etc. , f inhibit the positive catalysis by reacting with the catalytic ion , and hence acting as negative catalysts .
The catalysis is to be referred probably to pseudo-catalysis or " Uebertragungscatalyse " ( Wagner , Ostwald ) , since the copper probably takes a definite part in the reaction according to some scheme of the form\#151 ; a ... ... .
Cu " + Ag ( resp. Agy ) = Ag'-fCu* , b ... ... .
Cu- + iOa = Cu " + 0 ' , the reformed Cu " again taking part in the destruction of the image .
During exposure , this reversing action prevents the formation of the reduction product .
The effect would be different after exposure , owing to the reduction product forming a solid solution in normal halide .
This view of a catalysis of a reverse action was confirmed by an increase in the intermittency failure in presence of a desensitiser .
Section C. The Spontaneous Decay of the Latent Image .
Much evidence has been brought forward pointing to a spontaneous decay of the latent image , J with which we may associate the phenomena of " reversal , " and the failure of the Bunsen-Koscoe reciprocity relation , which states that the photo-chemical effect of an exposure E is the same whether the intensity or the time be altered , provided It E be constant .
AbneyS and others have shown that this law does not hold absolutely for photographic plates , but that there is a range giving the maximum available energy .
Repeating the work in a different manner , we used a very wide range of intensities .
A typical table is as follows :\#151 ; * * * S * Bredig , 'Zeit .
phys .
Chem. , ' 1903 , vol. 46 , p. 502 ; Titoff , ibid. , 1903 , vol. 45 , p. 641 .
+ Bigelow , ' Zeit .
pliys .
Chem. , ' 1898 , vol. 27 , p. 585 ; and Titoff , loc. cit. f Cf .
Baekeland , ' Zeit .
wiss .
Phot .
, ' 1905 , vol. 3 , p. 58 .
S 'Phot .
Journ. , ' 1893 .
1906 .
] The Theory of Photographic Processes .
I. t ( to give D = 1 ) in secs .
It .
log ( I x 1000 ) .
84 *5 0-204 17 -2 4-927 6-0 2 -59 15 -5 3-720 1-71 9-61 16 -4 3-232 0-452 34 -4 15 -5 2-655 0-130 120 15 -5 2-114 0'198 931 18 -4 1 -296 0-0074 4760 35 -1 0-869 0-0056 6400 36 -2 0-750 The deviations are best shown as follows : if the values of It , which gave an equal effect ( density ) be plotted against those of I , or , for convenience , log I , then the resultant curve will , if there be no deviation , be a straight line parallel to the x axis , but otherwise a curve showing the nature of the deviations .
( Compare Amagat 's pv-p curves .
) It was found that:\#151 ; ( a ) The failure is not a steady function of t. ( b ) Is independent of the total value of It .
( c ) Is relatively independent of the sensitiveness of the plate , i.e. , starts at the same point relatively to the inertia point.* The Intermittency Failure.\#151 ; Another form of reciprocity failure is with intermittent exposure , and this has been investigated by Abney and Englisch.f Our results are in good qualitative agreement with these observers ' , whilst practically they show that in sensitometry sector-wheels should not be driven at mote than 100 revolutions per minute , the error below this being negligeable .
The general conclusions are:\#151 ; ( i ) The failure increases with the pause between each illumination , increasing as the sector-angles diminish .
( ii ) It increases with the rate of intermittency .
( iii ) It is greater with small intensities .
Englisch attributes the failure to an initial induction and also to a " fading-loss " or deduction .
This latter merits chief consideration .
Various " molecular " and " strain " hypotheses have been suggested , but the peculiar nature of photo-chemical equilibria appears to give sufficient explanation .
Abegg* has correlated these phenomena with the lessened photo-effect obtained when plates are exposed through the glass side .
Erom the * This is opposed to Abney 's results , and possibly requires further confirmation ; our results are for plates of 20 and 200 H. and D. Experiments with " gasdight " emulsion are desirable , but difficult , owing to the great exposures required .
+ ' Schwarzungs-Gesetz phot .
Platten .
' W. Knapp , Halle .
'Sitz.-Ber .
Wien Akad .
, ' 1900 , vol. 109 , p. 1 .
468 Drs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Sept. 19 , investigations of Luther* it appears that the continuous exposure of silver halides to light results in a state of equilibrium in which every light-intensity is balanced by a definite halogen potential ( whether expressed as gas pressure , solution pressure , or electric potential ) .
Equilibrium is not usually reached in ordinary exposures because these are too short , whilst the halogen is removed by diffusion and combination with the gelatin .
Diffusion is easier from the film-air side ; to this Abegg attributes the lessened effect through glass.f When the incident light is cut off , the reverse reaction is no longer opposed by the photo-dissociation , and the theory agrees well with the facts brought forward on the intermittency failure .
The failure with small intensities is less easily accounted for , and is perhaps involved in processes antecedent to the dissociation of halogen , which will be mentioned later .
Reversal.\#151 ; The peculiar phenomenon of reversal by very prolonged or intense exposure has not yet received a satisfactory explanation .
Experiments with " retarded " development^ show that the characteristic plate curve does not give a complete epitome of the photo-chemical reaction .
In the diffusion period of developmentS it is evident that an increase per grain of the photo-reduction product would not accelerate development , whilst if the bromine released were mechanically retained in the film it would oxidise the developer , as was found with chromic acid ( see p. 464 ) , hence leading to apparent reversal .
The results of Precht|| with plates containing a developer ( edinol sulphite ) favour this view , since reversal is then much retarded .
Weisz,1T in a comprehensive study of this phenomenon , has shown that " tanning " theories must be abandoned , and apparently considers that a modification of the physical state of the reduction-germ or nucleus is brought about .
The Nature of the Reduction Product.\#151 ; So far the evidence only shows , if with some degree of conclusiveness , that the latent image consists of a substance containing less halogen .
The " free silver " theory is negatived by the general behaviour of oxidising agents , and especially by that of nitric acid.** By the researches of Lutherff on the halogenisation of silver , the existence of the half-halides Ag2X is made very probable , as well as their * * * S ** * ' Zeit .
phys .
Chem. , ' 1899 , vol. 30 , p. 628 .
t Loc .
cit. f 'Chem .
Soc. Trans. , ' 1905 , vol. 87 , p. 1317 .
S Ibid. , p. 1316 .
|| 'Zeit .
wiss .
Phot .
, ' 1905 , vol. 3 , p. 79 .
IT ' Zeit .
phys .
Chem. ' ** 'Zeit .
wiss .
Phot .
, ' 1905 , vol. 3 , p. 329 .
tt Loc .
cit. 1906 .
] The Theory of Photographic Processes .
469 identity with the visible and latent images , but later investigations by Gunter and Baur* show that the half-lialide must form solid solutions in all proportions with normal halide .
The varying behaviour of different exposures to oxidisers may then be explained as follows : In consequence of the thickness of the film and the absorption of light by this , there exist layers of halide grains with varying amounts per grain of reduction-product .
If n grains must be reduced to the metallic state to give a visible image ( Schwellenwert ) , the corresponding exposure will be shifted by reoxidation , progressively with time and concentration , but as the amount of subhalide falls , and its concentration in the grain is lessened , the potential of the oxidiser must be raised , or in the more exposed portions there will still be left sufficient grains with a sufficient minimum of half-halide to ensure developability .
Paet III.\#151 ; " Ripening " and the Photo-electric Effect .
Before summarising our conclusions on the photographic process we may interpolate a brief note on the process of ripening and on a probable action preliminary to any chemical action in exposure .
Ripening or the raising of sensitiveness by " cooking " aggregates the particles in a well-known manner , f and increases the opacity to light .
A possible explanation of the change involved is the following : The vibrations of light are considered to be of an electro-magnetic nature , and their absorption as conditioned by resonance .
Previously mentioned researches by Quincke show that in a gelatino-halide emulsion the admixture is of the most intimate kind .
Every electro-magnetic resonance is conditioned not only by the electric and magnetic properties of the resonators and of their surrounding medium , but also necessarily by their spatial distribution .
In fact , the vibration period increases with the spatial extension of the resonators , with the closeness of their packing and with the dielectric constant of the medium.^ Zsgimondy , by the ultra-microscopic method , S has shown that gelatin consists of a homogeneous basis containing aggregates or " clumps , " the proportion being variable and influenced by the state of the gelatin .
In an emulsion these clumps would give their form and distribution to the associated halide .
They may be considered as forming the resonators or groups of systems of resonators postulated above , and their formation as one end in ripening .
To this is also probably due the slow alteration in the viscosity of gelatin on cooking , noted by Schroder .
* ' Zeit .
phys .
Chem. , ' vol. 45 , p. 618 .
+ Cf .
Ostwald , ' Zeit .
phys .
Chem. , ' 1900 , vol. 34 , p. 495 .
J CfLuther , ' Zeit .
wiss .
Phot .
, ' 1905 , vol. 3 , p. 264 .
S ' Zeit .
Elektrochem .
, ' 1902 , vol. 8 , p. 686 .
Drs. S. E. Sheppard and C. E. K. Mees .
[ Sept. 19 , The Photo-electric Effect.\#151 ; As is well known , certain metals and other substances , under the influence of ultra-violet light , lose a negative charge .
The sensitiveness of the effect runs parallel with the absorption and is greatest for the region chiefly absorbed .
The silver halides and many dye-stuffs used as sensitisers are highly photo-electric .
It is assumed that the incident light sets free electrons or negative corpuscles , which at a bounding surface ionise the gas and are removed by diffusion and convection , or , if in an electric field , move in accordance .
There is , however , another photo-electric effect .
Many substances , and especially silver and the silver halides , give a difference of potential when immersed in an electrolyte and one pole exposed to light .
M. Wilderman , * from a quantitative study of the phenomenon , concludes that the solution pressure of the exposed plate is increased .
H. Schollf finds that silver iodide in light undergoes a species of dissociation which produces the ions of Agl and negative electrons .
The latter are much more mobile than the electrolytic ions in solid silver iodide and impart metallic conductivity to this .
Hence we must agree that in the plioto-film the electron is set free , not only at the ' bounding surface , but as far through the substance as the intensity of the light is sufficient .
This may be regarded as the primary photochemical change .
JolyJ has ably resumed the bearing of the photo-electric effect .
He considers that the latent image is built up of ionised atoms or molecules and upon these the chemical effects of development are subsequently imposed .
But the assumed stability of the free electric charges remains unexplained , S as also the destruction of the latent image by oxidising agents .
Bather does it seem that the liberated electron brings about a chemical change ( if temperature and other conditions are favourable ) and that the product , when below the threshold of perception , forms the latent image .
The process may be typified as follows:\#151 ; Ag- + Br ' + \#174 ; + G* = Ag ( met .
) + Br + G , or 2Ag .
, etc. , \#151 ; Ag2 ' ( subhalide theory ) , where G is a molecule which becomes positively charged to G ' ( molion ) by the photo-electric process .
Probably many of the phenomena of photographic induction may be susceptible of an explanation by this theory .
In addition it accounts for the action of dyes as sensitisers for their own region of absorption , since the electrons liberated from the dye would act as before .
* 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1904 , vol. 74 , p. 369 .
+ 'Ann .
Phys. , ' 1903 [ 4 ] , vol. 16 , pp. 193 and 417 .
J Address to Photographic Convention , 1905 .
'Brit .
Journ. of Phot .
, ' 1905 , vol. 52 , p. 551 .
S Of .
also Scholl , " On the Evanescence of Photo-electric Effect , " loc. cit. 1906 .
] The Theory of Photographic Summary .
The photographic process , in brief , consists in the passage of ionised silver to the metallic state , with a sub-oxidation stage as probably intermediate .
We may summarise our conclusions at the present stage as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
Ripening due to\#151 ; ( a ) Formation of resonating systems .
( b ) Formation of ( intermediate ) reduction-product .
Function of gelatin : forms resonators and assists reduction .
2 .
Exposure , light absorbed and electrons set free which ionise the halide and surrounding gas .
Function of gelatin : high dielectric constant , photo-electric , conserves electrons .
Function of gas : according as it removes electrons or not , may diminish sensitiveness .
Electrons may be emitted either from halide or from sensitisers .
3 .
Ionisation leads to chemical reduction : electroly tically dissociated halide becomes discharged by interaction with electrons and positive atom or molions .
Function of gelatin : combines with free halogen .
The reduction probably results in a half-halide , AgsX , in solid solution .
The action is reversible , a definite halogen pressure corresponding to each intensity of light .
Destruction of latent image\#151 ; ( a ) Free halogen during and after exposure .
( b ) Desensitisers during exposure ; cyclic action with oxygen involved .
( c ) Oxidisers after exposure ; possibly halogen released from gelatin .
( d ) Reversal ( 1 ) halogen reconverts subhalide ; ( 2 ) halogen ( absorbed ) oxidises developer .
4 .
Development : subhalide reduced to metallic silver , silver germ formed and complete reduction consequent on\#151 ; ( a ) Formation of silver germs : velocity chiefly dependent on chemical processes ; induction period .
( b ) Deposition on silver germ : velocity dependent on diffusion processes steady state .
Very possibly subhalide occurs as an intermediate product in development also .
Function of gelatin : filter against germs , so preventing fogging .
Mr. A. Mallock .
Relation between Breaking [ Dec. 4 , 5 .
Fixation or removal of remaining halide.* In conclusion , the authors desire to express their great thanks to Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , for his constant advice and interest in the investigation .
The Relation between Breaking Stress and Extension in Tensile Tests of Steel .
By A. Mallock , F.R.S. ( Received December 4 , \#151 ; Read December 13 , 1906 .
) A large number of the tensile tests of steel are now made with test-pieces , which are only a few diameters long ( fig. 1 ) .
N. S , Fig- i. \gt ; \lt ; \ fl J -\#171 ; zl0 v When such a test-piece is broken by tension , it has a profile , as shown in fig. 2 .
The usual records , made when the tests are carried out , include , among other things , " breaking stress " and " extension per cent. " " Breaking stress " here means the maximum tension applied divided by the original area of the test-piece ; and extension per cent , is taken as the percentage increase due to the strain , in the distance between two marks , one at either end of the test-piece , whose unstrained distance is known .
The use of the term " breaking stress " in the above sense is convenient , from an engineer 's point of view , as showing what force a bar , etc. , of given sectional area will stand before giving way .
The true breaking stress of a material , however , is the actual intensity of the stress at * 'Phot .
Journ. ' ( Trans. Boy .
Phot .
Soc. ) , 1906 , vol. 46 , p. 235 : " On the Theory of Fixation .
"

