1885 .
] On the Formation of Vortex Rings by .
417 Circumstances prevented the realisation of this scheme till quite recently , when I put into Mr. Hilger 's hands a grating presented to me by Mr. Rutherfurd .
The result is excellent .
It is possible to observe C and F , for instance , together quite conveniently , with either a normal or a tangential slit .
The only precautions necessary are to see that half of the light passing through the object-glass falls on the half grating , and that the rays which come to a focus on the slit plate are those the wave-lengths of which are half way between the wave-lengths of the two lines compared .
V. " On the Formation of Vortex Rings by Drops falling into Liquids , and some allied Phenomena .
" By J. J. THOMSON , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cavendish Professor of Experimental Physics , Cambridge , and H. F. Newall , M.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received November 28 , 1885 .
When a drop of ink falls into water from not too great a height , it descends through the water as a ring , in which there is evidently considerable rotation about the circular axis passing through the centres of its cross sections ; as the ring travels down through the water inequalities make their appearance : more ink seems to collect in some parts of it than in others , and as these parts of the ring descend more rapidly than the rest , it assumes some such appearance as that shown in fig. 1 .
These aggregations as they descend develope Fig. 1 .
fresh rings in the same way as the original ring was developed front the drop .
The ring is thus split up into several rings , each of which is connected with its neighbours by threads of ink affording a very pretty illustration of the continuity of motion in a liquid ( see fig. 2 ) .
As the secondary rings descend they develope other rings just as they were developed from the original one , and the process of repio-duction seems to go on indefinitely .
It is not every liquid , however , which , when dropped into watti , gives rise to rings , for if we drop into water any liquid which does not mix with it , such as chloroform , the drop in consequence of the Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. H. F. Newall .
[ Dec. 17 , Fig. 2 .
surface tension remains spherical as it descends .
In fact , we may sav that , with some few exceptions to be noticed later , rings are formed only when a liquid is dropped into one with which it can mix .
This is important , because surface tension has been supposed to play an important part in the formation of these rings ; it is difficult , however , to see how any appreciable surface tension can exist between liquids that can mix , and as far as our experiments go they tend to show that it is only the absence of surface tension which is necessary for their production .
There are , as we shall show later , many cases where rings are formed under circumstances in which there is no possibility of capillary action , such as when the liquid into which the drop falls is the same as the drop itself .
As capillarity was found not to be involved in the production of the rings , it seemed interesting to investigate the subject further , and the following investigation was undertaken with this object .
As the result of our experiments we have been led to a theory of the production of these rings of which we shall now give a brief sketch in order to render the sequence of our experiments more intelligible .
Let us suppose that a spherical drop falls into a liquid ; the motion of the liquid surrounding the drop will at first be much the same as if a solid sphere of the same size were to fall into the liquid .
Now , when a sphere moves through a liquid the tangential velocity of the liquid is different from the tangential velocity of the sphere , so that the liquid flows past the sphere .
If the sphere be fluid as well as the medium in which it moves , there will not be an absolute discontinuity in the motion , but only a very rapid change , so that there is a finite alteration in an exceedingly small distance .
This alteration is equivalent to a vortex film covering the sphere , the lines of vortex motion being horizontal circles , and if the liquid be viscous the vorticity in the film will diffuse inwards and outwards .
As the drop falls the resistance makes it get flatter and flatter until it becomes disk-shaped ; by this time , however , it is full of vortex motion , and as the disk-shape is an unstable arrangement of vorticity , the disk must break up into the stable arrangement\#151 ; that of an anchor ring .
This is a 41V ) 1885 .
] On the Formation of Vortex Bings by Drops .
rough outline of the theory we adopt .
It will be seen that the most important property of the liquid concerned is its viscosity\#151 ; the viscosity must he such that when the drop has become disk-shaped there should be enough vortex motion in it to cause it to break up ; if the viscosity is too small the vortex motion in it will not have had time to spread far by the tune the drop has become disk-shaped , and so the drop will continue to flatten and get into thin sheets with streaks of vortex motion in it instead of breaking up into a ring , whilst if the viscosity is too great the vortex motion will be dissipated before the drop becomes disk-shaped .
We shall now give the experiments which led us to form the conclusions .
We began by investigating the change in the shape of the drop before it became disk-shaped .
Shape of the Drop before it becomes a Ring .
To study the change of shape of the drop as it falls through the liquid we have had recourse to instantaneous illumination , and ha\e used for this the bright spark formed at breaking in a mercury cup a circuit containing an electromagnet .
It was necessary that we should be able to illuminate the drop at any point of its fall , and it was obviously convenient to make the actual fall of each drop start a set of processes which should result in the spark .
The figure show s diagrammatically the arrangement we have used .
The drop is formed at the end of a small piece of glass tubing Fig. 3 .
Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. H. F. Newall .
[ Dec. 17 , inch in diameter , the liquid filtering slowly through a small filter paper held by a wire ring in the upper end of the glass tube .
The tube and filter are fixed at one*end of a light lever , which is counterpoised at the other end and balanced carefully on a knife edge .
The lever was made of a narrow strip of brass foil , folded for the sake of increased rigidity into a A -shape .
On the lever between the knife edge and the adjustable counterpoise a small piece of platinum is fixed , and when the balance is set this is pressed lightly upwards against a platinum point which is held in position by a brass arm .
The knife edge is connected with one terminal , the brass arm with the other terminal of a circuit containing one or two Leclanche cells and a Morse sounder , which we have adapted so as to serve as a contact breaker in the spark circuit .
The moving brass lever of the Morse is prolonged by means of a light wooden arm , and the arm carries a wire tipped with platinum and bent so as to dip into a mercury cup .
A current from three or four Grove cells is passed along this wire , and the circuit is completed through a strong electromagnet .
The mercury cup is placed conveniently so as to illuminate the drop as it falls .
In using the apparatus the following is the procedure:\#151 ; Several drops are passed into the filter paper , and the counterpoise is adjusted so that contact is just made at the platinum points .
Thus , the relay circuit is complete , and as a consequence the lever of the Morse is held down , and so the electromagnet circuit is made by the dipping of the platinum tip into the mercury cup .
The spring and counterpoise of the relay and the mercury cup have been * ' set " so as to give the spark at break at about the moment required .
When the drop detaches itself from the tube the equilibrium of the balance is upset , the counterpoise sinks , and so breaks the relay circuit , which consequently breaks the electromagnet circuit at the mercury surface , and the spark so produced illuminates the drop at some point in its descent .
This point may be varied by altering the " setting " of the relay and mercury cup .
Various liquids were used for dropping : fluorescein dissolved in weak ammonia gave very good results for two or three drops when dropped into water , but it soon diffused through the column of water , and the drops were then no longer clear , as the efficient rays had been absorbed at the surface of the column .
Milk gave excellent results ; but even when considerably diluted it is disagreeable to work with on account of the greasiness that accumulates in the dropping tube , and ' of the cloudiness produced in the column .
A weak solution of nitrate of silver dropped into a column of weak sodic chloride solution was found to do best , as very good rings are formed , and the precipitate may be discharged by the addition of a few drops of ammonia .
The results figured below are those obtained in this way .
1885.1 On the Formation of Vortex Rings by Drops .
421 We have observed a great number of drops at many different points of their fall through the column into which they have been dropped , and at any given instant have found that a few definite forms repeat themselves .
Thus we are led to believe that the conditions of fall , though seemingly not altered , vary in a few definite ways , so that successive drops do not always pass through the same series of phases .
Indeed , simple observation in continuous light shows clearly differences in the perfection of formation of the rings under apparently similar conditions .
We have found a set of forms for a particular instant , and from the various sets taken far successive instants , separated by small intervals , we have picked out series of forms which strike us as continuously derivable from one another .
Fig. 4 .
422 Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. H. F. Newall .
[ Dec. 17 , It will be seen at a glance from the figures that the variations are only-in the unimportant parts , whilst the essential parts are recognisably the same .
At the early stages the drop is more or less spherical ; but as it descends , it gets flatter and flatter , as we might expect since its motion is resisted , and at one of the stages becomes almost disk-shaped , and passes very quickly from this into the ring shape .
This change of shape , we imagine , is due to the presence of the vortex motion , the distribution of rotation in the ring being a stable arrangement of vortex motion , whilst that in the disk is not .
The vortex motion in the drop has travelled from the boundary , diffusing according to the same laws as those which govern the conduction of heat , the quantity corresponding to the diffusivity in the conduction of heat being in this case fi/ p , where p is the coefficient of viscosity and p the density of the liquid .
If p/ p be very small , the vortex motion will not travel far into the drop , whilst if it be large it will all have diffused before the ring has beeome disc-shaped .
In neither of these cases should we expect the disk to change into a ring , and it will be seen later on that as a matter of fact it does not .
Effect of Dropping one Liquid into another .
A drop does not always make a ring when it falls into a vessel containing liquid .
We have tried the effect of letting a drop of one liquid fall into a vessel containing another liquid for a good many substances .
The results are given in the following table :\#151 ; Column of Water :\#151 ; Rings are formed when drops of the following liquids are let fall into a column of water : milk , alcohol , blood , aqueous solutions of sugar , of gum arabic , of potash , of permanganate of potash , of carbonate of potash , of sodic chloride , of copper sulphate , of nitrate of potash , of oleate of soda , of nitrate of silver , of cobalt chloride , of carbonate of soda , of ammonic chloride , hydrochloric acid , acetic acid , nitric .
acid , Plateau 's soap solution , essence of carraway , solution of iodine in ammonia , solution of fluorescein in ammonia , glycerine and water , sulphuric acid .
Globules are formed when drops of the following liquids are let fall into a column of water : carbon bisulphide , chloroform , ether , olive oil , paraffin oil , turpentine .
Column of Paraffin Oil:\#151 ; Rings : carbon bisulphide , chloroform , ether , olive oil , turpentine , butylic alcohol .
Globules : water , alcohol , essence of carraway , glycerine and water , dilute sulphuric acid .
1885 .
] On the Formation of Vortex Rings by Drops .
42o Column of Alcohol : Rings : carbon bisulphide , chloroform , water , turpentine , butjlic alcohol , sulphuric acid .
Globules : olive oil , paraffin oil .
It will be seen from the tables that a drop of one liquid only makes a ring when let fall into another liquid , when the two liquids can mix , and , therefore , when the surface tension is very small .
The following ' experiment shows that an exceedingly small amount of surface tension is sufficient to prevent the formation of the rings .
Absolute alcohol dropped into benzene gives rings ; water gives o-lobules : to about 10 c.c. of absolute alcohol water was added drop by drop , the mixture was stirred , and a drop was let fall into benzene .
Until after the third drop of water had been added , little change in the appearance was noticed ; a ring was formed , and this subdivided into secondary rings , and so on .
After the fourth drop was added , very small globules began to appear after a good many subdivisions .
After the fifth drop was added , the ring first formed subdivided not into rings but into flattened globules .
After the sixth or seventh drop was added , the appearance of the primary ring changed ; there seemed to be a more definite surface to it ; in fact a smalf surface tension had sprung up .
The globules formed on subdivision of the ring were quite disconnected from one another , whereas before there had been trails or festoons following each .
After the seventh or eighth drop of water was added , the formation of the primary ring seemed uncertain ; the flattened globule , if large , broke up irregularly into smaller globules without the intervention of the ring shape .
This experiment shows that if a liquid A forms spheres when let fall into another B , then A may be diluted with more than 1000 times its volume of some liquid , which has no surface tension with B , before it loses the property of making spheres .
The most striking proof , however , that the formation of the rings does not depend on surface tension , is the fact that the rings are formed when the liquid of which the drop is made is the same in all respects as that into which it falls .
If we take a vessel full of water , and raise from it by means of glass tubing enough water to make a drop , then , when this drop falls back again into the vessel from the proper height , it forms a ring .
After a little practice , it is easy to distinguish the ring from the rest of the liquid , and this may be done still more easily if we mix some insoluble powder with the water .
Experiments with one Liquid .
AVe found on trying different liquids that they behaved ^eiy differently when treated in the way we have just described .
In some of them a distinct ring was formed by the drop , whilst in others the 424 Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. H. F. Newall .
[ Dec : 17 , drop after falling into the liquid seemed to spread through it without assuming any definite shape .
We found when we used various liquids that if the drops were let fall under similar circumstances , the results depended only on the value of ( the kinematic coefficient of viscosity for the liquid ) .
This is shown in the following table , where the behaviour of the drop and the value of p/ p are given for several liquids , which we have divided into classes .
The viscosity coefficient p has been determined by Poiseuille 's transpiration method ; that is , from the time in which a constant quantity of liquid flows under constant pressure through a fine capillary tube .
To test the character of the rings formed in the case of any particular liquid , drops of it are let fall into a column of it from three different heights : 1st , such that the drop just touches the surface of the liquid column at the moment it ' detaches itself from the tube ; this height of fall is denoted in the table by " fall == 0 " ; 2nd , such that the tube is held .J inch above the surface of the column ; 3rd , such that the tube is held % inch above the surface .
In describing the character of the rings we have used terms which it will be well to define .
" Splash " denotes the irregular spread of the drop through the liquid column ; it takes place with whirls and eddies irregularly , and is difficult to represent , but the figure ( 5 ) would probably recall the appearance to Fig. 5one who had seen the reality .
" Uncertain " expresses that a ring or a splash is formed , one as often as the other .
" Blob " denotes the appearance of a drop that does not break and spread through the column* but remains within its boundary ; the figure ( 6 ) represents Fig. 6 .
the case .
" Doubtful " denotes that the drop tends to become a ring , but that it is a question whether it ever leaves the state of a blob .
1885 .
] On the Formation of Vortex Rings by Drops .
\lt ; D a bD .3 s -g g S o * pd *P fP fP GO 00 00 OG Ctf 03 03 P-* Oh P-i mviai\amp ; i J C\gt ; . .
bo bo .
* o bo bo a p bo bo 8,.s.g*c'c.s .a \#163 ; *.2 .is ]| 1\gt ; .\amp ; -is \#169 ; o3 c3 O O ^ o3 pH pq ( J CS PR ."d m 04 04 lllir f4 C J'g lli-i-i Si OQ OQ W pq PQ PQ bb p 'C d ss t\gt ; % -in co \lt ; d \lt ; D \lt ; D o3 o O p P P S OQpPCb .
J-l .
*4 *4 *4 ** l-sl-mi CD R C5 pR pR pR 02 -H I .
f| II j\#163 ; *i| \#166 ; s ?
.g2 \#166 ; fi | P*P-O 53 mpq is PR S .5 bb bb .8.8.3.9 Vi Sh 1 |.3-s a s ^ a p { 5 pq Ph bb .g t tilili llll-sll OQ QQ P pH Q PQ bb .s *E \#163 ; o* \amp ; 3i\gt ; bb bb p #p *\#163 ; *3 ?
* 'Ulo CD l\gt ; k FQ PQ / /#\gt ; . .
Kin .
vise .
coefficient .
0*418 0*589 0*654 0*700 1*0 1*222 1*514 1*99 2*680 2*71 2*72 3 90 4*050 4*31 5*053 14 *79 18*28 Transpiration time .
Water=1 .
0*467 0 *6951 0*4428 0*494 1*0 1*226 1*206 CO H* CO rH 10 O 1\gt ; - 10 J\gt ; 00 -H \#169 ; H CO 51 ( M 4*512 3*326 3*469 8*217 fd 6 ** s , - GQ 00 CO rH H ^ lO lO CO CO \#169 ; \#169 ; 00 tCb i\gt ; 0 tfb \#169 ; \#169 ; 00 ^ O OO5NHO00 Ub \lt ; M OOO \lt ; MI\gt ; ^ ^tNI\gt ; OOi\gt ; OOTfi OOO H 00 00 iO 00 rH rH rH O O rH rH \#169 ; \#169 ; rH \#169 ; rH . . . . . . .
* ?
: . .
no . .
* . ?
S5vs * H 5s .
k :a p* hH 03 rP 1l P ~ \#166 ; a .ssb^o JO '1 8SBJ0 \#163 ; \#174 ; I iJs \#171 ; S g \#171 ; J !
Sht* | j ?
^OHhIprCD v----------esBxo ae^Al JO 'II SSBIQ = 1 OQ PM o 11 13.2 .2 \amp ; S'* Mod ____^ r2 \#163 ; O CD .fi P S-S '3^* mO .88\#171 ; io xA\#171 ; a 'At JO 'IIX SSUXO 88B[3 VOL. XXXIX .
426 Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. H. F. Newall .
[ Dec. 17 , Notes.\#151 ; ( i. ) Oleate of soda solution in water , made of that strength which best gave certain results when a drop was let fall into a special sample of paraffin oil ( see below ) .
( ii .
) Sulphuric acid III , a mixture of acid and water , made by adding water to , strong acid until drops taken from the mixture and let fall into it gave rings as good as many of the liquids in Class II .
( iii .
) Paraffin oil such as is ordinarily used in lamps .
( iv .
) Glycerine II , a mixture of glycerine and water , dilute enough to bring it only just into Class II .
( v. ) Sugar solution in water , so strong as just to give rings when dropped into itself .
( vi .
) Paraffin oil II , a special sample of oil that we have not been able to match , and which will be referred to below ( p. 432 ) .
( vii .
) Sulphuric acid II , made of such strength that it should belong by the character of its ring to Class III .
( viii .
) Sulphuric acid I , strong commercial acid .
( ix .
) Glycerine I , diluted with water , but still of such strength that rings were never formed by drops of it falling into a column of it .
These experiments indicate that the nature of the motion , after the drop has fallen into the liquid , depends upon the value of p/ p. Now fijp is a quantity of the dimensions of the product of a length and a velocity , so that nothing can depend upon the absolute value of this quantity , but only on the ratio of it to the product of some length and velocity in the , system .
The most obvious length in the system with which pjp can be connected is the size of the drop or ring .
If this is so , diminishing the size of the drop when p/ p is kept constant ought to produce the same effect as increasing p/ p when the size of the drop is kept constant .
Now if we take a liquid from Class I , the effect of increasing pjp sufficiently would be to make it behave like one in Class II , that is , give very much better rings , so that for a liquid of this kind we should expect that small drops would make better rings than large ones .
To test this , we repeated the experiments with the liquids of Class I , using much smaller drops than we used before , and we found that now they made rings much more readily and certainly , in fact , with this sized drop , they deserved to be put into Class II .
If we try the same thing with liquids in Class III , we find that the rings are worse with Small drops than with large .
On the other hand , increasing the size of the drop when p/ p is kept constant , should have the same effect as diminishing pfp when the size of the drop remains constant , so that if we repeat the experiments with liquids from Class IV , using larger drops than before , we should expect to get better rings .
Experiment showed this to be the case .
Large drops were obtained by dipping a piece of glass tubing into the liquid ( e.g. , strong sulphuric acid ) , and then raising the tube after closing the top with the finger ; on removing the finger , a considerable quantity of liquid flows through the tube , making a large ring .
The velocity with which p/ p would be most 1885 .
] On the Formation of Vortex Rings by Drops .
naturally connected is the velocity of the drop ; it is not possible , however , to alter this very much without introducing great disturbance into the liquid .
These results admit of very easy explanation , if our theory of the formation of the rings is correct .
According to this , the reason that the liquids in Class I do not make rings , is because the vortex motion has not penetrated sufficiently into the drop to make it break up , when it becomes disk-shaped .
If , however , the drops be made smaller , the vortex motion has a better chance of filling it before it becomes disk-shaped , and so causing it to break up into a ring .
When fi/ p is very large , as is the case for liquids of Class IY , the vortex motion is dissipated so quickly , that though the drop may have been filled with vortex motion , this has all diffused away before the drop reaches the disk-stage .
If we make the drop larger , it will take longer to get full of vortex motion , and there may be enough left in , by the time it gets disk-shaped , to cause it to break up into a ring .
There is another way in which the formation of rings by liquids of Class IY may be promoted : suppose that , instead of letting a drop fall into a column of the same liquid , we let it fall into another liquid for which [ ifpis smaller ; then since this liquid is a worse conductor of vortex motion than the drop , the vortex motion will not diffuse so readily into the surrounding liquid .
Thus we should expect the drop to form a ring more readily than before ; and we have found this to be the case .
Thus , for example , drops of sulphuric acid I from Class IY , let fall into either sulphuric acid II of Class III or sulphuric acid 111 of Class II , give rings .
Similarly with solutions of sugar , of caustic potash , and of glycerine .
These effects are sometimes masked by the effects produced by difference of density ; for if the drop is much heavier than the liquid into which it falls , it will fall faster , and this will promote the formation of the ring .
If we guard against this source of error , we may see that if a drop does not make rings when it falls into a column of the same liquid , it will not make rings when it falls into a column of another liquid of the same density , but for which !
p is greater ; but it may make rings if fi/ pbe less than for the drop .
On the Splitting up of the Rings .
When a ring has travelled some little distance through the liquid , its outline generally becomes irregular , and after a time takes the corrugated appearance shown in fig. 1 .
The corrugations become more and more marked as the ring falls , until the appearance is that represented in fig. 8 , 7 : the drops at the bottom of the bends develop rings in the same way as the ring itself was originally developed .
This process of subdivision is repeated several times , until the ring assumes the appearance shown in fig. 7 .
2 f 2 Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. H. F Newall .
[ Dec. 17 , Fig. 7 .
The separate rings always remain connected with each other by threads of liquid ; this shows that there is no surface tension ; for if there were , these threads would break up into drops .
The only stage at which the motion is discontinuous is when the drops are changed into rings .
The change from the ring shape to stage 2 ( fig. 1 ) occurs quite gradually , and there is nothing analogous to the separation which takes place when a cylinder of liquid splits up into drops .
We have made a great many experiments on the subject , and have arrived at the conclusion that two conditions are necessary for the splitting up of the rings .
1 .
The liquid forming the ring must be of density different from that of the liquid into which it falls .
2 .
There must be motion in the liquid into which the drop falls .
We suppose that the splitting up takes place in the following way .
In consequence of the motion in the column of liquid the ring gets a little uneven , more of the liquid collecting in one part of the ring than another .
Now , if there is plenty of vortex motion in the ring , this irregularity will not be permanent , as the anchor ring with uniform cross section is the stable form for the motion , so that unless the disturbing force is too great , the ring will oscillate about the anchor-ring shape , and the irregularity will not increase .
If , however , the vortex motion in the ring be small , it may not be able to balance the disturbing forces and the irregularities will increase .
The disturbance is due to the resistance of the liquid in the column , the places where the liquid in the ring has collected falling faster than the remaining portions of the ring ; the ring consequently takes in time some such appearance as that shown in fig. 8 ( 7 and The thicker portions will behave now as the drop did when it fell into the column , and they will develop rings in just the same way .
42 y On the Formation of Vortex Rings Drops .
Fig. 8 .
The observations on which we base these conclusions are the following:\#151 ; We have never seen a ring break up when the liquid forming the ring was the same in all respects as that surrounding it .
If the temperature of the drop be different from that of the column , 01 if so much powder has been added to the drop as to make the difference of the density appreciable , there is breaking up .
The number and size of rings into which the original ring breaks , and their manner of distribution round its circumference , aie quite irregular .
430 Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. H. F. Newall .
[ Dec. 17 , When the liquid into which the drop falls has been allowed to rest for some hours , a ring will go much further and will last much longer without splitting up , than when it follows on a succession of rings .
Some rings of very dilute permanganate have thus been observed to last for as long as ten minutes .
When there is little difference in the density of the drop and the liquid into which it falls , the ring does not break up until there is no vortex motion in it .
When , however , the difference in density is large , the ring may break up while it is still rotating .
If a tube be drawn out into a fine capillary and be filled with sulphuric acid , and held so that its capillary end is just beneath the surface of a column of water , a fine stream of acid flows down ; and on it marked headings appear .
Each bead gives rise to a vortex ring , and the rings so formed behave in characteristic manner ( fig. 9 .
) Fia .
9 .
Here there seems strong evidence of a tension between the acid and the water , but the appearances are to be explained by differences of velocity in the stream , brought about by motion in the column of 1885.1 On the Formation of Vortex Rings Drops .
water , or by vibrations communicated to the capillary tube .
If the experiment be made with all care to avoid vibration , the stream falls unbroken through a column of 8 inches of water : whilst if a tap be criven to the acid tube a break occurs in the stream , in consequence of a momentary stop in the flow of acid , a small bead is formed , and from it a ring .
If no care is taken to avoid vibration the beads will follow one another very rapidly .
It may be objected that if there existed a surface tension , it would only be when disturbances were communicated that beadings would appear .
But in such a case , the resolution into drops would be complete , and small spherules would be formed between the larger drops .
In fact , however , the connexions between the beadings are fine filaments of acid , so that the beadings are never really separated from one another .
We have , moreover , convinced ourselves of the correctness of this explanation , by allowing a stream of cold water with lycopodium powder to flow from a fine tube into a column of slightly warm water ; similar cessations in flow and formations of beadings may be observed ; the rings are not well formed , but this is to be expected , for the conditions are not nearly so favourable .
Experiments with two Liquids between which there is Tension .
When there is a very small tension between the liquid of the drop and that in the column , some very interesting results are obtained .
In a few cases a ring is formed for a moment , but is almost immediately broken up into drops and spherules .
As instances of such cases we may mention strong caustic potash solution dropped into paraffin oil : strong sulphuric dropped into turpentine or into paraffin oil : a certain mixture of turpentine and alcohol dropped into paraffin oil : a mixture of alcohol and chloroform dropped into water : and the mixture of alcohol and a few drops of water dropped into benzene ( see above , p. 423 ) .
In most cases the drop falls through the liquid shaped like a disk , and in the first part of its course changes its shape very considerably .
These changes may be well observed in the case of a drop of sodium sulphate solution falling through paraffin oil , they are shown in fig. 10 .
At first the drop is nearly spherical ( a ) ; then it becomes flattened ( ( 3 ) ; next it becomes quite flat underneath or sometimes even hollow ( 7)/ the top remaining curved .
During all this time the velocity of the drop has been changing .
The top now gets flatter and flatter ( S , e\gt ; ?
) , while it begins to bulge out at the bottom till the drop is saucer-shaped ( 7 , 0 ) , hollow at the top , and rounded at the bottomland we perceive that it is followed close on by a vortex ring in the liquid of the column .
It now moves with constant velocity through the liquid as though it met with no resistance , differing in this respect from the case where the drop falls as a ring , when its velocity\#151 ; unless th Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. H. F. Newall .
[ Dec. 17 , Fig. 10 .
difference of density is very great\#151 ; continually diminishes .
We see the reason for this to be that the vortex at the back of the disk since it tends to make the liquid move along its stream lines , will increase the pressure in the rear and thus diminish the resistance .
In fact we see that what the vortex does is to make the conditions very much the same as if the saucer-shaped drop were moving in a stream flowing with the same velocity .
The existence of the following vortex is shown in a very beautiful manner in the next stages represented at t and k in the figure : the edges of the saucer-shaped disk become thinned out to such an extent by the action of the radial streams above and below , that they are drawn out into fine filaments which immediately break up into small spherules , and these are carried round in the vortex behind the drop .
These latter stages are best shown in the case of a certain solution of oleate of soda let fall into a special sample of paraffin referred to above ( p. 426 ) , and the changes are represented in fig. 11 .
If only a small drop of oleate is let fall , the steady state is reached before the spherules are detached , and the drop falls in the shape shown at a. If a slightly larger drop falls , then the form b is reached , 1885 .
] On the Formation of Vortex Rings by Drops .
Fig. 11 .
Ofrntc cf Solo into special Ihraffin Oil and persists until so much of the drop has been whirled off into the following vortex that the form a is reached again , and the velocity of fall never attains such a value as to bring about the thinning out of the edges .
If a still larger drop is let fall , the forms Cx , C2 , and C3 are assumed , in which the thin cylindrical part at the edge is at first vibrating up and down , until the steady phase , C3 , is reached .
this will by degrees be reduced to the form b , but the column of paraffin was not long enough for us to observe the final form a. If a still larger drop of oleate is used , the vibrations of the cylindrical part , d , are so great that the drop is torn asunder and such disturbance is produced in the column that a steady fall is not attained .
These results may be obtained by increasing the strength of the oleate solution and keeping the size of the drop constant .
One more case of interest may be described , namely , that of drops Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. H. F. Newall .
[ Dec. 17 , of carbonate of soda dropped into paraffin oil .
The phases are represented in fig. 12 .
The earlier ones are somewhat similar to those above described .
But the phase shown at e is different .
Here it seems quite a chance , as it were , that the disk does not break into a ring .
The instability is immediately shown by the oscillations , which begin at this point and continue in a regular manner through a fall of more than 3 feet .
An attempt is made to show this in the phases \#163 ; , g , 6.A thickening appears at one side , and the opposite .edge thins off considerably , and these irregularities travel regularly round the drop as it falls through the column .
Effect of the Height of Fall on the Formation of the Ring .
We have found that alteration of the height from which a drop falls before reaching the surface of the column modifies the formation of Fig. 12 .
the rings considerably .
Good rings are formed only within small limits of height\#151 ; from about 1 to 3 inches , according to the size of the drop .
Above 3 inches it is only when the drop falls back into the .column after rebound that a ring is formed , and that very irregularly .
But within the limits for any particular size of drop rings are much 1885 .
] On the Formation of Vortex Rings hy Drops .
435 better formed from some heights than from others .
We have observed many cases , varying the size of the drop , the liquid of which it is composed , and the tension of the 'surface , and have found that the variations in goodness of the rings\#151 ; where goodness is judged by the length of path in the liquid\#151 ; depend on the variations in the shape of the'drop at the moment it touches the surface .
Curves were plotted out , abscissae being taken equal to the height of fall , and ordinates equal to the depth to which the ring goes without breaking up .
The curves show two or more maximum points : the abscissa values for these differ from one another by lengths which may be reduced to time intervals .
We find that there is very fair agreement between the intervals so calculated and the periods of vibration of the drop about the spherical form .
With small drops of water there are several maxima close together , but more widely separated as the fall gets longer ( fig. 13 ) .
The equivalent intervals are about -gV of a second , Em .
13 .
whilst the period of vibration of a drop of the size used is about JLof a second .
With as large drops as can be formed from a tube there are only two maxima separated by an interval equivalent to a 5 436 Presents .
[ Dec. 17 of a second .
The period of vibration of such a drop was calculated to be 2V 'f a second .
The effect of diminishing the tension would be to increase the period of vibration .
In experiment we have observed that the separation of the maxima is much greater in the- cases of paraffin and of turpentine and of alcohol .
But difficulties were experienced in the fact that drop^ of these liquids when let fall from small heights up to about half an inch , generally assumed the spheroidal state .
Equal drops of water and of weak oleate of soda solution were let fall into water , and it was found that the separation of maxima was nearly twice as great for the oleate as for the pure water .
In the case of large drops , drops let fall from a point midway between the points to which maxima correspond are nearly always broken up without the formation of a ring .
In the case of small drops rings are nearly always formed , but the depth of their paths in the liquid varies from about half an inch to 5 inches .
YI .
" A Preliminary Account of a Research into the Nature of the Venom of the Indian Cobra ( tripudians ) .
By R. Norris Wolfenden , M.D. Cantab , ( from the Physiological Laboratoiy , University College , London ) .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received November 17 , 1885 .
The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 7th , 1886 .
Presents , December 10 , 1885 .
Transactions .
Adelaide :\#151 ; Royal Society of South Australia .
Report .
Vol. VII .
8vo .
Adelaide 1885 .
The Society .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Studies from the Biological Laboratory .
Vol. III .
Nos. 3-4 .
8vo 1885 .
Studies ( Third Series ) , V-X .
8vo .
Baltimore 1885 .
The University .
Bern:\#151 ; Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Mittheilungen .
1883 .
Heft 2 .
1884 .
Hefte 1-2 .
8vo .
Bern 1884 .
The Society .
Birmingham:\#151 ; Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Vol. IV .
Part 2 .
8vo .
Birmingham 1885 .
The Society .
Brisbane:\#151 ; Royal Society .
Proceedings .
Vol. I. Parts 2-4 .
8vo .
Brisbane 1884-85 .
The Society .

