Num. 11 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
Munday , April 2 .
1666 .
The Contents .
A Confirmation of the former Account , touching the late Earthquake near Oxford , and the Concomitants thereof , by Mr. Boyle .
Some Observations and Directions about the Barometer , communicated by the same Hand .
General Heads for a Natural History of a Country , small or great , proposed by the same .
An Extract of a Letter , written from Holland , about Preserving Ships from being Worm-eaten .
An Account of Mr. Boyle 's lately publish't Tract , entitled , The Origin of Forms and Qualities , illustrated by Considerations and Experiments .
A Confirmation of the former Account touching the late Earthquake near Oxford , and the Concomitants thereof .
THis Confirmation came from the Noble Mr Boyle in a Letter , to the Publisher , as follows : As to the Earth quake , your curiosity about it makes me sorry , that , though I think , I was the first , that gave notice of it to several of the Virtuosi at Oxford ; yet the Account , that I can send you about it , is not so much of the Thing it self , as of the Changes of the Air , that accompanied it .
To inform you of which , I must relate to you , that riding one Evening somewhat late betwixt Oxford &amp; a Lodging , I have at a place , 4.miles distant from it , the weather having been for a pretty while Frosty , I found the Wind so very cold , that it reduced me to put on some defensives against it , which I never since , nor , if I forget not , all the foregoing part of the Winter was obliged to make use off .
My unwillingness to stay long in so troublesome a Cold , which continued very piercing , till I had got half way home-ward , did put me upon galloping at no very lasy rate ; and yet , before I could get to my Lodgings , I found the Wind turned , and felt the Rain falling ; which , considering the shortness of the time , and that this Accident was preceded by a settled Frost , was surprising to me , and induced me to mention it at my return , as one of the greatest and suddainest Alterations of Air , I had ever observed : And what changes I found , have been taken notice of in the Gravity of the Atmosphere at the same time by that Accurate Observer * Dr. Wallis , who then suspected nothing of what follow 'd ; as I suppose , he has ere this told you himself .
Soon after , by my guess about an hour , there was a manifest Trembling in the House where I was ( which stands high in comparison of Oxford .
) But it was not there so great , but that I , who chanced to have my thoughts busied enough on other matters , than the weather , should not have taken notice of it as an Earth-quake , but have imputed it to some other cause , if one , that you know , whose hand is employed in this Paper , and begins to be a diligent observer of Natural things , had not advertised me of it ; as being taken notice of by him and the rest of the people of the House .
And soon after there happened a brisk Storm : whereupon I sent to make inquiry at a place called Brill , which standing upon a much higher ground , I supposed might be more obnoxious to the effects of the Earth-quake ( of which , had I had any suspicion of it , my having formerly been in one near the Lacus Lemanus , would have made me the more observant : ) But the person I sent to , being disabled * See Num. 10 .
Phil. Tranfactions p. 166 -171 ; at the time of the printing whereof , this Relation of Mr. Boyle was not disabled by sickness to come over to me ( which he promised to do , as soon as he could ) writ me only a Ticket , whose substance was , That the Earth-quake was there much more considerable , than where I lodged , and that at a Gentlemans house , whom he names ( the most noted Person , it seems , of the neighbourhood ) the House trembled very much , so as to make the Stones manifestly to move to and fro in the Parlour , to the great amazement and fright of all the Family .
The Hill , whereon this Brill stands , I have observed to be very well stored with Mineral substances of several kinds ; and from thence I have been informed by others , that this Earth-quake reached a good many miles ; but I have neither leisure , nor inclination to entertain you with uncertain reports of the Extent and other Circumstances , especially since a little further time an inquiry may enable me to give you a better warranted account .

