Experiments made at London concerning the Liquor sent out of France , which is there famous for staunching of the blood of Arteries as well as Veins ; of which see Numb. 94 .
May 30 .
1673 .
1 .
A Dog had the skin of his neck slit open and flaid by Mr. Serjeant Wiseman , so that the jugular vein lay bare .
He then with his lancet opened it , and immediately applied to it a button-pledget of lint dipped in that liquor .
This being done , he took up the Muscles on the other side of the throat , and divided them till he came to the Carotid Artery .
This he like wise opened with his lancet , and applied a pledge after the manner aforesaid .
These Pledgets , being kept on by pressure of the thumb about a quarter of an hour , were then taken off .
The Vessels bled , but not freely : Whereupon the pledgets were changed for fresh ones , and kept on a quarter of an hour more ; being then first left loose , and afterwards taken off , the Vein and Artery were knit and solder 'd together .
2 .
The same day a young Womans breast being by the same Surgeon cut off , the Arteries were stopped by holding the like pledgets in the mouths of them whilst the dressings were fitted for the breast .
The pledgets being then thrown off , the blood continued staunch , and the mouths of the Arteries remained close .
3 .
Whilst this later operation was performing , a Patient , whom Serjeant Wiseman had newly dressed with a Caustic Stone in the neck ( upon some Scrophulous swellings , ) was brought back to us in a coach , having bled all the way to the wetting of almost a whole sheet .
The vessel lay so deep that it was hard to reach it .
However , Mr. Wiseman dipped two pledgets in the liquor asoresaid , and thrust them into the two orifices whence the blood came .
It was immediately stopped and the neck dressed up without any considerable bandage .
Walter Needham .
The Woman , whose breast I cut off , came out of the country to me on Wednesday last , labouring under a Cancer ulcerated .
rated .
She was weak and much indisposed by reason of its frequent bleeding from a vessel out of our reach .
About two hours after the writing above signed by Dr. Walter Needham , she was taken with a vomiting , and her breast bled .
I was sent for , and found her swooning , and the Women about her in much confusion .
I took off the dressings , and perceived one of the Arteries to bleed a little .
I applied the French Essence and stopped it ; but douting the ill consequence , if it should bleed again in the night , I secured that Artery by the touch of a hot Iron .
Rich .
Wiseman .
June 11.1673 .
There was made a fourth Experiment by the same Dr. Needham before the R. Society , though there was then but a very small quantity of that liquor at hand .
A Dogs Crural Artery was cut quite cross with an Incision-knife ; the blood gushing out copiously , a lint dipped in the said liquor was applied to the wound , and held upon it a little while ; when by reason of the great glut of blood , that could not be well wiped away for want of a spung , ( which made the Experimenter conjecture , the application had not been exactly made , ) the lint was changed for a fresh one dipped in the liquor , and kept on about half an hour , and being then left loose , the blood was soon staunched ; whereupon the Dog being un-bound , licked this wound , and walked away without any ligature , and is still found alive and well .
June 18 .
1673 .
An other Trial was made before the same Society by Monsieur Denys himself , Counsellor and Physician in ordinary to the most Christian King , being come to London by his Majesties order .
In the Crural artery of an other Dog was made an oblique wide cut , and the Liquor in the usual manner being applied to it , the blood was staunched in 7 minutes , and the dog being then let loose , but yet kept quiet for 23.minutes longer , he then arose and let ~ the applied compress , and went away without any bandage .
To these Experiments we cannot but add those that were very lately made at Whitehal before his Majesty himself , who did appoint the 20th .
of June last to make Experiments of it ; when two Calves , of the bigger sort by his Majesties command were brought into the Banqueting house ; of one of which the Crural Artery being laid bare , it was cut open long-ways with a lancet and presently a lint dipped in the said Essence applied to the wound .
The blood was stopped in about a quarter of an hour ; but the animal being big and strong , and striving continually to get up , the artery broke out again , whereupon a fresh lint , dipped in this healing water , was laid on again .
The blood was at length so stopped , that about the end of two hours the beast rose , walked about the house without loosing any blood more , though the wound had no bandage on it .
Of the other Calf the butcher cut off quite one of his legs as high as he could , and the blood rushing out impetuously , a compress of lint dipped in the Essence was presently applied to the part .
Here more care was taken than before , of keeping the Animal quiet ; and about the end of a Quarter of an hour the blood was found perfectly staunch .
Several of the Kings Physicians and Chirurgions did examine the wounds after the blood was stopped and found them clear without any escarr ; and his Majesty himself declared publicly to be very well satisfied with it .
But these Experiments being made only upon Beasts , in this place , and some of our English Chirurgions , there present , doubting , whether it would do well upon Men , Trials are to be made to satisfy that doubt ; of which an account may be expected by the next .
Experiments made at Paris with the same Liquor ; as they are described by Monsieur Denis in his 11th .
Conference , printed in French at Paris April 30.1673 .
of which the substance here follows in English .
THIS Author , having first mentioned the ways hitherto received and commonly used , in stopping the blood of pricked or cut Arteries ; as that with a Thread and Needle , the touch of an hot Iron , the application of Vitriol or other Scarotiques , rotiques , burning , like fire , the extremities of the Arteries and making an Escar , which you must stay for till it fall off , to know whether the blood be indeed staunched ; having done this , I say , he takes notice ; 1 .
That all those ways are so little sure , that when a great Artery is to be dressed , the ablest Chirurgions constantly furnish themselves with all those helps , and have them all in readiness at the same time upon such occasions , that so , if one fail , they may have recourse to another .
2.That all those ways are so severe and un-natural , that the pain often raises a Feavor , and thereby casts the Patient into great danger of his life .
3 .
That , not withstanding all those remedies , many Patients die for want of means able to stop the blood ; and that the openings of the Arteries lie sometimes so deep within the Flesh , that you cannot reach them , neither with the Fire , nor pledget , nor any adstringent powder : Whereas , he saith , this Essence hath none of all these Inconveniences ; in regard it causes no pain at all , being applied to the wound ; it easily penetrates through the Flesh , to find out and close the mouths of the Arteries , without any necessity of cutting away any thing , as you must do , if you will convey other remedies thither ; and the effect of it is so quick , that in about a quarter of an hour , if it be well and exactly applied , the operation is performed ; nor need you stay several days for the salling off of the Escarre , to be assured of the staunchness of the blood .
The Experiments by him recited are these ; 1 .
The Crural Artery of a Dog was prick't with a lancet ; presently a button-pledget , dip't in the Essence , was put upon the wound , and kept on by some lint laid over the said pledget , and held on by the thumb .
In less than half a quarter of an hour the Artery was so closed , that the pledget being removed , not a drop of blood was seen to issue .
2 .
Two days after the other Crural Artery of the same Dog was laid open , and having cut it quite through with scissors , a compress of lint dip't in the liquor was immediately applied to it , and half a quarter of an hour after , the compress being removed , the wound was found very dry ; only there run out a little blood , that was extravasated in the neighbouring parts , whereas the Artery it self yielded not a drop .
3 .
Of an other Dog the Flanc was cut with a pen-knife , which did penetrate into the Liver .
The same knife was run into the groin of another Dog , and a Vein , Nerf and Artery cut together to imitate the slashing of a Sword , and to see the effect of this sanative water in that case .
All these wounds were speedily cured , without any ill accident to those Animals .
4 .
To see , what this Esserce would perform in cases of whole Limbs quite cut off , which sometimes must be done to prevent Gangrenes ; a Dog was taken and one of his Legs altogether cut off , and a compress of lint , melted with the Essence , laid upon the cut Veins and Arteries .
At the end of a quarter of an hour the compress was taken off , and also the Bandage , that held it against the stump of the Leg cut ; and the blood was found so staunched , as if no vessel had been opened in that part .
5 .
These Experiments having so well succeeded upon Brutes , and been repeated over and over with the like success , no scruple was then made to try the Liquor upon Men .
First , there were opened Veins upon Arms , as is done in ordinary Phlebotomies , and a Lint dipped in the Liquor having been held on the wound half a quarter of an hour , the Veins were found fo perfectly closed , as they are wont to be in the common way after 24 .
hours .
An other being bled in the Temporal Artery , and the like application made , he went abroad , and took a turn in Town without any compress , or bandage , the Artery never opening again .
6 .
The same Essence hath also been very successfully used in Fluxes of blood , giving it at the Mouth in ptisane : And surprising effects of it have been seen in cases of Bleeding at the Nose ; seeing that as soon as a pledget of lint , moistened with this liquor , was put into the nostrils , the blood was stopped , after those had been tired out , who to no purpose had tried all the other common remedies .
7 .
Some Chirurgions have with good success made use of this water : For having used it only twice upon several wounds , as a Head broken by a fall upon a pavement ; a great cut in the Hand ; a Leg wounded by the flinging of a Stone , &amp;c. they have avowed this Essence to be able to close and heal wounds in 2 or 3 days , which they could scarce heal in 15 .
days with their best Unguents .
8 .
To show further that extraordinary quality of this Essence , Mr. Denis observes , that it heals wounds without any visible cicatrice and without any suppuration ; saying , that by the same propriety , it hath of stauching blood , it not only closes the Orifices of Vessels opened , but it likewise so constricts the Pores of the Fibres of the Flesh uncovered , that it suffers no Air to enter , nor any humor to extravasate out of the wound : And by this defending a wound against all the alterations that may survene either from without or from within , it preserves from all suppuration , and keeps the flesh entire ; and the wound closing without any loss or reproduction of substance , we need not wonder , he saith , that it is done in a short time , and without an apparent cicatrice .
Having dispatch't so far , he takes notice of some , that have made it their business out of envy to descry this Discovery ; some saying the thing not to be so new as was pretended ; others , that it would not succeed upon Men , though it did upon other Animals , others , that this secret was not unknown to them , there needing no more but to make a solution of Alume or Vitriol to stop the bleeding of Arteries .
To which he makes this return : 1 .
If any Authors mention such an Essence , it ought to be made out , that it is the same in kind with this ; but he defies all that have most frequented Hospitals and Armies , to say , whether ever they have hitherto seen used a liquor , by which the blood of Arteries opened hath been presently stopped , as well in the cutting off of limbs , as in ordinary wounds .
2 .
That Experience proves the efficacy of this liquor upon men as well as Brutes .
3 .
That some of these who have stopped the blood with Alum or Vitriol , have done it only in appearance , only for some moments ; others have stauched it indeed by so drying and burning up the wound , that the Animals died upon it ; others could not stop it neither in effect nor in appearance .
He adds , that for finding the real effect ; he will answer sor none but that of his composition , being assured , that when he shall discover all the Ingredients that compose it , all will agree , that no things could be pitch't upon more powerful for a quick stopping of blood , and withal less subject to cause inflammation either within or without .
Then he complains of some men , that knowing the Effects of this remedy , would rather let men suffer in their misery , than permit to ease them by the use of this liquor ; taking notice of those , that lately would let a poor man die of the bleeding at the Nose , rather than give way to apply this remedy , if they had not been over ruled by others , who after the fruitless application of all sorts of remedies for 5 days together , scopp 'd that Bleeding presently by putting 2 or 3 drops of this Essence into the Nose .
After this he advertises the public , that his liquor is that , which hath been approved of by his most Christian Majesty at Paris and St. Germain , in the presence of some of the most intelligent Physicians and Chirurgions of that Kingdom ; adding that his Essence is to be found in one only place at Paris , upon the Key of the Augustins , at Mr. Quenet 's Bookseller , a l ' Enseigne de l'Esperance .
He concludes , that since the making of the Trials above recited , it hath been found , that this water not only stops in a short time the Blood of Arteries cut , and heals wounds very quickly without suppuration ; but also that it so reunits the extremities of Nerves and Arteries cut , that Animals shall not be lame after .
And to assure himself of the manner how this was done , he saith , he hath examined the parts , of which the Nerves and Arteries had been cut , and then healed by this Essence ; and that in the dissection made of such creatures , he with others had found them whole , and the extremities of those Vessels as perfectly reunited together , as if they had never been severed .
The same M.Denis affirms , to have received news from Calis , that an Officer of the Ship called le Tonant , having his shoulder broken by a Canon-bullet , was carried into an Hospital , where the Axillary artery together with his Arm being cut off , the blood of it was stopped with nothing else but a lint dipped in this liquor ; left fastened on to the artery till next morning .
He adds , that from Mactricht also it was written , that with the same liquor the blood of a leg had been stopped , the half of which had been carried away by a Canonbullet .

