]\gt ; , when , when The vibration through which instability first enters is one in which the displacement at every point is proportional to a harmonic of the first order .
It appears probable that for spheres which are not homo* ' The Stability of a Spherical Nebula ' Phil. Trans , vol. 199 , p. 1 .
1902 .
] Stability of a Planet .
geneous , but in which the density is greatest near the centre , the alues of will be greater than those just stated , but the criticaI vibration will still be such that the displacement is proportional to a first ]larmonic term .
In the former paper , already referred to , the suggestion was put forward that the insbability of a nebular sun or planet , which , upon the nebular hypothesis , is supposed ultimately to result in the ejection of a satellite , may be largely brought about by a gravitational tendency to instability of the kind just described .
We take , for the moment , an extreme hypothesis , and imagino that this agency is the preponderating agency , and that the rotational tendency to insbabihty may be disregarded in comparison .
We then find that when the ejeetion of a satellite is taking place , or has just been completed , the value of must be nearly equal to Except for the changes which have occurred since the consolidation of the planets , the solar system supplies material for testing this couclusion .
When a number of planets of varying masses have thrown off satellites , we find ( upon our present sxtrems hypothesis ) that the masses ought to be proportional to the of the radii .
I6 is found that this law is approximately obeyed in the solar system .
It is further found that the absolute values of the masses and radii are approximately such as would be expected .
It is interesting to compare two extremes hypotheses , the first referring the phenomena of planetary evolution solely to rotational , the second solely to gravitational , instability .
Given the approximate values of the density and elasticity of a planet , and the fact that this planet has thrown off a satellite then the former hypothesis leads certain inference as to the angular momentum of the the latter to an infsrence as to the radius of the primary .
The former leads to no inference at all as to the size of planets which are to be expected\mdash ; they are as likely to be of the size of billiard-balls as of the size of the planets of our system\mdash ; while the latter leads to no inference as co the angular momentum of the system , but presupposes it to be small .
The contention of the present paper is that the inferences which drawn from the former hypothesis are not borne out by observation on the planets of our system , while those which are drawn from the latter are borne out as closely as could be expected .
The true hypothesis must of necessity lie somewhere between the two extremes which we are comparing , but the evidence seems to show that it is much nearer to the latter ( gravitational ) than to the former tional ) .
We .
next consider a number of questions connecved with the of the earth .
It seems to be almost certain that the present elastic constants of the earth are such that a state of spherical symmetry would be one of stable equilibrium .
On the hand , if we look ' Experiments on the Effect of Mineral Starvation on the Parasitism of the Uredine Fungus , Puocinia , on species of \ldquo ; By H. SIIALL WARD , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the University of Cambridge .
eceived November 4 , \mdash ; Read ) , 1902 .
I have shown in previous publications that the parasitic Uredine dispersa , growing on grasses of the genus Bromus , is usually very closely adapted to the species of host-plant selected : that lthough no morphological differences can be detected between the fungus as met with on different species of \amp ; c.\mdash ; it by means follows that spores from the parasite , as found growing on will infect or , or that spores from the fungus as reared on or will infect the species A. On the whole , it has so far appeared probable that the fungus growing on a given ] , B. mollis\mdash ; infects most readily those

