XXXVIII .
An Attempt to account for the regular diurnal Variation of the horizontal magnetic Needle ; and also for its irregular Variation at the Time of an Aurora Borealis : By John Canton , M. A. and F. R. S. THE late celebrated Mr. George Graham made a great number of observations on the diurnal variation of the magnetic needle , in the years 1722 and 1723 ; but declared himself ignorant of the cause of that variation , in No 383 of the Philosophical Transactions , where many of those observations are to be found .
About 2 the Read Dec. 13 , the year 1750 , Mr. Wargentin , secretary of the Royal Academy of Sciences in Sweden , took notice , both of the regular diurnal variation of the needle , and also of its being disturbed at the time of an aurora borealis , as recorded in the 47th volume of the Philosophical Transactions ; but is silent as to the cause .
I had no opportunity of making observations of this sort myself , till the latter end of the year 1756 ; but , since that time , I have made near four thousand , with an excellent variation-compass , of about nine inches in diameter .
The number of days , on which these observations were taken , is 603 ; and the diurnal variation on 574 of them was regular ; that is , the absolute variation of the needle westward , was increasing from about eight or nine o'clock in the morning , till about one or two in the afternoon , when the needle became stationary for some time ; after that , the absolute variation westward was decreasing , and the needle came back again to its former situation , or near it , in the night , or by the next morning .
The diurnal variation is irregular , when the needle moves slowly eastward in the latter part of the morning , or westward in the latter part of the afternoon ; also when it moves much either way after night , or suddenly both ways within a short time .
These irregularities seldom happen more than once or twice in a month , and are always accompanied ( so far as I have been able to observe ) with an aurora borealis .
Thus having explained what I mean by the regular and irregular diurnal variation , and shown , that this variation is generally regular ; I shall now , in the first place , endeavour to account experimentally for the regular variation ; then offer a conjecture concerning the cause of the irregular variation ; and , lastly , attempt to make it appear probable , that the aurora borealis arises from the same cause .
The attractive power of the magnet , ( whether natural , or artificial ) will decrease while the magnet is heating , and increase while it is cooling ; as will appear by the following experiments .
Experiment 1 .
About E. N. E. from a compass , a little more than three inches in diameter , I placed a small magnet two inches long , half an inch broad , and three-twentieths of an inch thick , parallel to the magnetic meridian ; and at such a distance , that the power of the south end of the magnet was but just sufficient to keep the north end of the needle to the N. E. point , or to 45 degrees .
The magnet being covered by a brass weight of sixteen ounces , about two ounces of boiling water was poured into it , by which means the magnet was gradually heating for seven or eight minutes ; and during that time , the needle moved about three quarters of a degree westward , and became stationary at 44~ 1/ 4 ; in nine minutes more , it came back a quarter of a degree , or to 44~ 1/ 2 ; but was some hours before it gained its former situation , and stood at 45~ .
N. B. The greater the power of the same magnet , the more it will lose in a given degree of heat .
Exp. 2 .
On each side of the compass , and parallel to the magnetic meridian , I placed a strong magnet of the size above-mentioned ; so that the south ends of both the magnets acted equally on the north end of the needle , and kept it in the magnetic meridian ; but if either of the magnets was removed , the needle was attracted by the other , so as to stand at 45 degrees .
grees .
The magnets were both covered with brass weights of sixteen ounces each .
Into the eastern weight I poured about two ounces of boiling water ; and the needle in one minute moved half a degree , and continued moving westward for about seven minutes , when it arrived at 2~ 3/ 4 .
It was then stationary for some time ; but , in twenty-four minutes from the beginning , it came back to 2~ 1/ 2 , and in fifty minutes to 2~ 1/ 4 .
I then filled the western weight with boiling water , and in one minute , the needle came back to 1~ 1/ 4 ; in six minutes more , it stood half a degree eastward ; and after that , in about forty minutes , it returned to the magnetic north , or its first situation .
It is evident , that the magnetic parts of the earth in the north on the east side , and the magnetic parts of the earth in the north on the west side of themagnetic meridian , equally attract the north end of the needle .
If then the eastern magnetic parts are heated faster by the sun in the morning , than the western , the needle will move westward , and the absolute variation will increase ; when the attracting parts of the earth on each side the magnetic meridian have their heat increasing equally , the needle will be stationary , and the absolute variation will then be greatest ; but , when the western magnetic parts are either heating faster , or cooling slower than the eastern , the needle will move eastward , or the absolute variation will decrease ; and when the eastern and western magnetic parts are cooling equally fast , the needle will again be stationary , and the absolute variation will then be least .
This may be still further illustrated , by placing the compass and two magnets , as in the last experiV O L. LI .
Fff meant , meant , behind a screen near the middle of the day in summer ; then , if the screen be so moved , that the sun may shine only on the eastern magnet , the needle will sensibly vary in its direction , and move towards the west ; and if the eastern magnet be shaded , while the sun shines on the western , the needle will move the contrary way .
By this theory , the diurnal variation in the summer ought to exceed that in the winter ; and I accordingly find by observation , that the diurnal variation in the months of June and July , is almost double that of December and January .
The irregular diurnal variation must arise from some other cause than that of heat communicated by the sun ; and here I must have recourse to subterranean heat , which is generated without any regularity as to time , and which will , when it happens in the north , affect the attractive power of the magnetic parts of the earth on the north end of the needle .
The reverend Dr. Hales has a good observation on this heat , in the Appendix to the second volume of his Statical Essays , which I shall here transcribe .
` ` That the warmth of the earth , at some depth under-ground , has an influence in promoting a thaw , as well as the change of the weather from a freezing to a thawing state , is manifest from this observation ; viz. Nov. 29 , 1731 , a little snow having fallen in the night , it was , by eleven the next morning , mostly melted away on the surface of the earth , except in several places in Bushy-Park , where there were drains dug , and covered with earth , where the snow continued to lie , whether those drains were full of water , or dry ; as also where elm-pipes lay under-ground ; a plain proof that these drains inter8 ` ` cepted cepted the warmth of the earth from ascending from greater depths below them ; for the snow lay where the drain had more than four feet depth of earth over it .
It continued also to lie on thatch , tiles , and the tops of walls .
' ' That the air nearest the earth will be most warmed by the heat of it , is obvious ; and this has frequently been taken notice of in the morning , before day , by means of thermometers at different distances from the ground , by the reverend Dr. Miles , at Tooting in Surrey ; and is mentioned in p. 526 , of the 48th volume of the Philosophical Transactions .
The aurora borealis , which happens at the time the needle is disturbed by the heat of the earth , is supposed to be the electricity of the heated air above it ; and this will appear chiefly in the northern regions , as the alteration in the heat of the air in those parts will be greatest .
This hypothesis will not seem improbable , if it be considered , that electricity is now known to be the cause of thunder and lightning ; that it has been extracted from the air at the time of an aurora borealis ; that the inhabitants of the northern countries observe the aurora to be remarkably strong , when a sudden thaw happens after severe cold weather ; and that the curious in these matters , are now acquainted with a substance , that will , without friction , both emit and absorb the electrical fluid , only by the increase , or diminution of its heat : for if the Tourmalin be placed on a plane piece of heated glass , or metal , so that each side of it , by being perpendicular to the surface of the heating body , may be equally heated ; it will , while heating , have the electricity of one of its sides positive , and that of the other negative , this will likewise be the case when it is taken out of boiling water , and suffered to cool , but the side that was positive while it was heating , will be negative while it is cooling , and the side that was negative , will be positive * .
For the sake of those who may be desirous of examining the diurnal variations of the needle very minutely , I shall annex a complete year 's observations ; and shall deduce , from the regular variations during that time , the mean diurnal variation belonging to each month : whence it will appear , that the diurnal variation increases from January to June , and decreases from June to December .
In the following table , the first column contains the day of the month ; and the second , the hour and minute of the day ( according to equal time ) , when each observation was made .
The third column contains the absolute variation of the needle westward , or the angle it made with a true meridian line at the respective times ; which differs less than two minutes of a degree from that at Greenwich , where the reverend Dr. Bradley was so kind as to give me several opportunities of taking it , in his presence , by the curious apparatus for that purpose , belonging to the royal observatory .
And in the fourth column are set down the degrees of heat , by a Fahrenheit 's thermometer , hung without , in the shaded air , on the north side of the house .
* See the Gentleman 's Magazine for last September .

