]\gt ; 1903 .
] a Condnct Obstacte .
" " The Bending of Electric Waves round a Conducbing Obstacle H. M. fALD , F.R.S. , Fellow of Clare College , Cambridge .
Received January 21 , \mdash ; Read January 29 , 1903 .
1 .
The mathematical theory of the formation of a shadow when waves on an obstacle rests on an application of Huygens ' principle , which may be stated in the form that , if a closed surface be drawu , all the sources of the waves , the circumstances that obtain at point outside this surface at definite time can be expressed in terms of the state , of affairs at the surface at previous times .
' of sound , the usnal analytical expression involves a knowledge of both the velocity potential of the motion and the velocity normal to the surface at each point of it for all time ; for electric waves , 11-hioh may be taken to include waves of light , it requires a knowledge of both the electric and magnetic forces tangential to the surface for all time .
In the application to the theory of shado ws , the surface that is chosen coincides in part with the surface of the obstacle , the remaining part being chosen so as to simplify the calculation as much as possible ; for example , in the problem of the passage of waves of light through an aperture in a plane screen , the surface is taken to be the plane of the Qcreen .
It is then assumed that the part of the surface which coincides with the surface of the obstacle nothing , and it follows that , when the wave-length is small , a shadow formed , whose is by the extreme incident that meet the surface of the .
The assumption thus made is equivalent to assuming that the obstacle is perfectly absorbing , and aves of light incident on opaque bodies this is known to be approximately true , possible exception for the case of opaque bodies whose surfaces are polished .
For waves of sound incident on an approximately rigid obstacle , and for electric waves incident on an approximately perfectly conducting body , this theory does not apply : as , in the first case , the condensation does not vanish at the surface of the obstacle ; and , in the second case , the tangential magnetic force does not the surface .
In what follows the behaviour of electric waves incident on a fectly conducting body will be discussed , and the conditions for the formation of shadow in this case will incidentally ) The results for of incident on a rigid obstacle are very simil J. It will be sufficient to consider a comparatively simple se , * Lord Rayleigh , ' Theory of Sound , ' vol. 2 , S 293 .
Macdonalcl , ' Electric Waves , ' S 14 .
Cf .
Stokes , ' Camb .
Phil. Trans vol. 9 , 1849 , p. 1 ; , ' Pogg .
Ann A Kirchhoif , ' Slitzungsberiohte .
' .
1882 .
p. 641 .
at any point whose distance from OC is satisfies the differential equation where is the distancs of the point from some plane of reference perpendicular to OC , and is the wave-length of the oscillations .
Transforming to polar co-ordinates , where and is the angle COP , this equation becomes ( 1 ) , in which .
The general solution of this equation , which is applicable to the space external to a sphere , is in which denotes Bessel 's function of order and the zonal harmonic of integral order .
It is , therefore , first necessary to express the magnetic force due to the oscillator in this form .
If is the magnetic force at the point due to the oscillator , is the real part of , in which is the distance CP and V is the velocity of radiation .
* tVriting and remembering that this is equivalent to when , where *Hertz , ' Electric Waves , ' p. 141 .
Macdonald , ' Proc. .
Math. Soc vol. 32 .
1903 .
] Blectr round a Conducting Obstade .
Now ; naking these substitutions and rearranging the series , it becomes that is ( 2 ) , where If , then , a solution of equation ( 1 ) can be found , which is such that becomes infinite as at the point and vanishes Yhen , the real part of be , the required magnetic force , then will vanish , that is , the electric force tangential to the sphere vanishes .
The solution required will be of the form where , and the constants are determined by the condition that , when ; hence where .
H. M. Macdonald .
The of [ Jan. 21 , The calcuIation of the electric forces at a point not on the surface of the sphere presents difficulties , but when the wave-length is small compared with the radius of the sphere , the electric force at the face of the sphere can be obtained in a simple form .
The electric force at the surface of the sphere is normal to the , and denoting it by is the real part of when .
Now and , when the wave-Iength is small compared lvith , this becomes that is , writing , From the above where , that is or , ; therefore which gives 1903 .
] Waves round a ctincJ 0 and therefore a ( 3 ) .
At points on the surface of the sphere for which is great compared with the , this becomes , retaining only the most important terms , ' , here is the angle subtended by OC , and is the electric for along the normal , which would be due to the oscillator if the sphere were absent .
From this it follows that the ratio gradually diminishes as decreases , until approaches the value when it becomes comparable with the terms lvhich have been neglected .
Hence , when electric aves are incident on a perfectly conducting sphere , there is no true shadow near the surface when the wave-length is small compared the radius of the sphere .
It can , therefore , be inferred that , when electric waves are incident on a psrfectly conducting body whose surface is convex , and has its radii of curvature everywhere great compared with the wave-length , there is no true shadow near to the surface .
It is known that , lvhen electric waves of small wave-length are incident on a perfectly conducting wedge , the disturbance does not sensibly creep round the corner , but shoots out so that there is a shadow hich coincides the more closely with the geometrical shadow as the wave-length diminishes .
* It therefore appears that the condition for the formation of a distinct shadow near the surface of a perfectly conducting body , whose surface is convex , when electric waves are incident on it , is that there should be a line on that part of the surface inside the geometrical shadow along which the radius of curvature of the surface in the plane of incidence of the aves is small with the wave-length .
3 .
The electric force normal to the surface of a sphere , which is a fairly good conductor , may be obtained by an analysis similar to that given above .
The resuIt is * Sommerfeld , ' Math. Annalen , ' , 1896 ; or Mncdonald , ' ' 1902 , .
H. M. Macdonald .
The Bending of [ Jan. 21 , where , and is the real part of , and is the specffic resistance of the material of the sphere , the other symbols having the same meaning as before ; it being assumed that , which for ordinary nletallic conductors is of the order when the wave-length is about 10 cm .
, is small .
If now denotes the electric force normal to the surface , differs in phase from the electric force normal to the surface when the sphere is a perfect conductor ) by a small amount , the ratio of the amplitude of to is .
The effect of imperfect conduction is therefore to diminisl ] the electric force normal to the surface , but only by an inappreciable amount when the obstacle is as good a conductor as an ordinary metal ; for sea water , taking , the correction is less than one part in a thousand .
4 .
The effeot of a rigid spherical obstacle on the waves of sound sent out from a source , when the wave-length is small compared with the radius of the sphere , can be obtained by an analysis which { dmost identical with that given above .
The result is that at any point on the sphere at a distance from the source great compared with the wave-length , , where is the velocity potential at the point due to the source , and is the actual velocity potential there .
There is , therefore , no shadow near the surface of the sphere .
Lord Rayleigh has discussed the effect of a rigid sphere waves sent out from a source close to the surface , and found there was no indication of the formation of a shadow for wave-lengths greater than half the circumference .
The above statement completes the investigation .
The conditions for the formation of a distinct shadow , when waves of sound are incident on an approximately rigid acle , follow ; they are of the same type as those already stated for an approximately perfectly conducting body on which electric waves are incident .
5 .
The results of S2 have an immediate application to the question of the propagation of electric waves around the surface of the earth .
Let be a place on the earth 's surface from which waves are being sent out ; these waves may bs supposed to be due to an oscillator placed vertically .
The electric force acting on a receiver at a place , whose angular distance from measured along a great circle is will be , given by equation S2 , when the distance of the receiver from the oscillator is great compared with the wave-length .
In this case is nearly equal to , and may be put equal to it for values of for which equation ( 4 ) applies ; thus ) .
It is the engths a use il the obion is than oue pa rt in hundred millions .
'Tbeory of ound , ' vol. 2 , S 328 .
1903 .
] Electric a Conducting convenient for purposes of comparison to substitute for in terms of another quantity ; let F2 denote the electric force due to the oscillator at a point in its equatorial planle at a from the which is the same as the arcual distance of receiver ; then where is the amplitude of , and the amplitude of ) ; the ratio of the intensities in the two cases is .
The following table shows the manIler of variation of the amplitudes and the inteusity the sphere as increases from to For example , lvhe]l , that is for the case of the earth at a distancs of rather more than 3000 miles , the amplitude of the electric force .
acting on the receiver is more than half the amplitude of the electric force that would be directly due to the oscillator at that distance , and the intensity nearly three-tenths .
These resuIts lvill apply when the two places are separated by good conducting suoh as sea water , the effect of the imperfect conduction of such substances being by S 3 negligible .
They explain why wireless telegraphy is more effective over the sea or wet soil than over dry soil ; from S3 it follows that a badly-conducting obstacle diminishes the effect .
It is also to be expected from S2 that the influence of a VOL. LXXI . .
I O. Bowel .
Studies the [ Jau .
30 of some sharpness the places is to create a distinct shadow , to such an extent the effect would be inappreciable ; the same result vould be prorluced by an intervening headland ; this :grees with the experience of Captain ckson .
" " Studies in the Morphology of V. General Comparisons , and CoIlclusion By .
O. Sc. D. , F.P.S. , Professol of Botany in the University eceived January 30 , \mdash ; Bead , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) This concluding Memoir contains a general discussion of the csnlts acquired in the four ious parts of this series , and of their bearing on a theory of sterilisation in the sporophyte .
The attempt is made to up the comparative morphology of the sporophyte from below , by the study of its simpler types ; the higher and more specialised types are left out of account , except for occasional comparison .
It is assumed for the purposes of the discussion that alteruation of generations in the Archegoniatae is of the antithetic type , that pogamy and apospory are ities , 1lot of origin .
After a brief allusion to facts of sterilisation in the of Bryophytes , the similar facts are summarised the Pteridophytes .
It has been found that examples of sterilisation of sporogenous cells are common also in plants , while occasionally cells which are normally may develop spores .
Hcn ce it is concluded that spore-productio1l in the Archegoniate plants is not in cases strictly limited to , or defined by , preordained cells , or cell-groups .
A discussion of the archesporium follows , thongh it is found that in allPteridophyta the porogenous tissue is tely referable to the segmentation of a cell , or cells , still in them , and indeed in vascular plants at large , ths segmentations hich lead up to the formation of spore-mother-cells ars not in cases ; in fact , that there is no general of segmentation llndcr- lying the existence of that cell or cells which a last analysis may mark out as the " " archesporium do these ultimate parent cells give rise in all cases to .
Therefore it is that the general application of a definite term co those ultimate parent cells which the analysis discloses no scientific meaning , the statement of the histiogenic fact .
Further , it is shown that the tapetum is not a morphological * ' Rov .
So .
Proc 1902 .

