198 Mr. E. Roberts .
On a new Tide-Predicter .
[ June 19 , respiratory curves appear in the tracing .
The tops of the individual beats in the tracing are sometimes flattened , sometimes rendered more pointed ; this latter change is scarcely seen when ether is employed .
No very marked difference exists between the two agents as regards their effects , but chloroform seems to have the more depressing effect on the heart .
The uncertainty of the results from both agents is remarkable .
The opinion is expressed that the curves apparent in many of the tracings are not by any means solely the result of respiratory movements , but more often of deranged cardiac or arterial action .
Experimental tracings are given , showing the effects of forced inspiration and expiration , and of the former when the subject had been previously in a state of semi-suffocation , and the blood , therefore , detained in the right cavities of the heart .
It is pointed out that the occurrence of waves of contraction in the arteries , such as are seen in the bat 's wing , would account for the production of some of the curves , especially those which exhibit the curious phenomenon of diastolic ascent .
The view is maintained that the occurrence of curves in the tracing is a morbid sign .
The tendency of narcosis to produce flattening of the tops of the several beats is pointed out , and it is particularly observed that the same change is marked in cases of fatigue of the heart .
The heart 's force , and the arterial contractility are no doubt weakened in both states\#151 ; narcosis and fatigue\#151 ; and this weakening is regarded as accounting , together with the engorgement of the right auricle and veins , for the flattened summit of the beat .
XV .
" Preliminary Note on a new Tide-Predicter .
" By E. Roberts , F.R.A.S. Communicated by G. G. Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. , Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
Received June 12 , 1879 .
The Indian Survey Department having undertaken the superintendence of tide-registration around the whole sea-board of India and at the port of Aden , and also the reduction of the observations by the method of harmonic analysis , with the view to the prediction of the tides for the whole of the ports , it became a matter of necessity , in order to save the large outlay which the numerical operation of their prediction would have involved , that an instrument should be constructed to delineate the predictions .
Accordingly , on the recommendation of the Surveyor-General of India , Mr. Roberts was desired to design , and to undertake the construction of , an instrument to include such a number of tide-corn1879.1 Mr. E. Roberts .
On a new Tide-Predicter .
ponents sufficient to predict the Indian Ocean tides with all the accuracy necessary for practical purposes .
The present machine is the outcome of the recommendation .
The instrument combines the following twenty tide-components :\#151 ; The mean lunar semidiurnal ; The first and second overtides of the mean lunar semidiurnal ; Two elliptic lunar semidiurnal ; Two evectional lunar semidiurnal ; One variational lunar semidiurnal ; The mean solar diurnal ; The mean solar semidiurnal ; The lunisolar semidiurnal ; The lunisolar diurnal ; The lunar .diurnal ; The solar diurnal ; One lunisolar elliptic diurnal ; One lunar elliptic diurnal ; One compound ( Helmholtz ) lunisolar semidiurnal ; One compound ( Helmholtz ) lunisolar quarter-diurnal ; The solar annual ; and The solar semiannual .
Strictly speaking , there is no sensible astronomical tide-component of twenty-four mean solar hours ' period , but for the purposes of prediction it is necessary to include such a term , a very regular and sensible result of this period being obtained in the analysis , due probably to wind or temperature .
The same remark applies partially to the solar annual and the solar semiannual , the theoretical tides of these periods being very small ; the analysed results , however , are of considerable value , being due probably to the effect of rainfall and the regularity of the monsoons .
These three components should , therefore , be regarded more as meteorological than astronomical .
The stipulation that the scale for heights should be one inch per foot range for Bombay necessitated a recording barrel of some 18 inches at least ; the actual length adopted for the instrument , however , is 22 inches .
The delineation of the curves on such a large scale rendered necessary some modification of the system of eccentric pulleys , as fitted on the tide-predicter of the British Association .
It was at first contemplated to fit parallel slides only to the larger of the tidal components ; the whole of them have , however , been so provided .
The chief difficulty in the construction of the machine is the finding , within reasonable limits , of proportions which shall represent with sufficient accuracy the periods of the several components , in order that the machine may be used for a considerable period of prediction say , for twelve months .
Very great success has been attained in this respect in the present instrument .
For instance , the error of the 200 Mr. E. Roberts .
On a new Tide-Predicter .
[ June 19 , period of the chief component ( the mean lunar semidiurnal ) relatively to the mean solar semidiurnal is inappreciable during a whole year 's predictions , amounting to about 0'*10 only in a period of fifty years .
The largest deviation from strict accuracy is 0o,37 , after a run representing twelve months .
This is , however , of one of the very small components , and insensible in its results .
This part of the design may be therefore regarded as practically perfect .
Each component is provided for setting with a crank , in which a sliding piece is fitted , carrying a steel guiding-pin .
The guiding-pin is thrown out by means of a fine-cut screw and micrometer head .
An improved parallel slide , carrying a pulley , is also fitted to each component. .
The guiding-pin works between two parallel adjustable steel jaws at the back of the pulley frame .
The pulley frame is fitted with a balance-weight , so that its centre of gravity is in a vertical line through the pulley 's axis .
The whole slide is counterpoised by a cord and weight , passing over pulleys , in order to relieve the guiding-pin of all strain and to prevent wear .
The st\amp ; el bar of the pulley slide moves freely in two guides drilled out nearly their entire length to reduce the touching parts to a minimum .
The other side of the pulley slide is kept in position by a projecting fork or guide , travelling with freedom along a narrow flat brass bar .
Both the brass bar guide and the steel rod guide are divided to millimetres ; the brass bar for approximate , and the steel rod for the accurate , adjustment of the throw of the crank-pin , for which purpose the upper guide of the steel rod is furnished with a vernier .
The milled head of the micrometer-screw is also divided and may be used with the divisions on the brass bar guide .
The pulley frame is movable on its steel rod , for the purposes of the perfect adjustment of the pulley about the centre of motion of the axis of the crank .
The axis of the crank carries behind the main plate a fine-toothed wheel , fitted on a slotted cone , with a milled nut for clamping the wheel on its axis .
The toothed wheel is driven by an endless screw , carrying a bevelled wheel , which is itself driven by another bevelled wheel on one of the four main axes of the machine .
The endless screws and main axes are fitted with counter pivots .
At the back of the machine are fitted the setting dials .
Each dial is toothed round its outer edge and movable round its centre by a pinion for adjustment .
The axis of the component projects through the setting dial , and carries a steel pointer for setting .
A fine flexible wire fixed to a large screw-head passes alternately under and over the pulleys of the lower and upper series of components , and carries an ink-bottle at its free end .
The ink-bottle , fitted with a fine glass point , travels in a geometrical slide , and is suspended to give just sufficient pressure to ensure contact on the paper of the recording barrel .
1879.1 Mr. E. Roberts .
On a new The recording barrel is fitted with brass pins at equidistant intervals to form the time indications on the paper by perforation .
An index for setting is fitted behind the machine at the top of the recording barrel .
The paper , which is continuous and supplied from a reel , passes round two grooved rollers at the back of the main barrel , and is held in position whilst the pins enter the paper , and after receiving the curves is wound round the haul-off drum .
The haul-off drum rests on toothed driving-wheels , and by friction turns and slips to accommodate itself at a proper tension to receive the recorded paper .
Motion is given to the whole system of wheelwork through the horizontal centre main shaft from a system of clockwork driving-gear at the bottom of the machine , the whole being driven by a weight calculated at about 4 cwt .
, and controlled by a fan .
A warning bell sounds when the weight is nearly run down .
The length of the barrel round which the cord is wound is sufficient to give 15,000 turns of the main shaft .
' This corresponds to about 3 months ' run of curves , and will occupy about 1 hour to run off .
A year 's tide-curves for any port will thus occupy about 4 hours .
The setting of the machine for the prediction of the tide-curves of any part for which the tide-components are known , is as follows : The dials are first turned so that the epoch or time of maximum is exactly under or above the highest or lowest point according as the component is situated on the upper or lower row of components .
The cranks are set vertically ( the slotted cone of the wheel on the axis having been first released ) and the guide-pin thrown out to its proper range to represent the half-amplitude of the component .
The proper positions of the hands having been previously determined by calculation for the time of starting , the hands are set and the slotted cones tightened up .
The recording barrel is then set to the time and the wheelwork set in motion .
The complete setting occupies only a few minutes .
% The large dial in the centre is foff showing the progress of the record , which can be marked occasionally to facilitate the entry of the dates on the record after its removal from the machine .
A few supplementary pins are inserted in the barrel for the better distinction of the hours .
Two speeds of travel can be given to the paper , viz. , 1 inch and A-inch " per hour .
A fixed rod near the recording pen carries ruling pens for the tracing of base lines , such as dock sills , river bars , or mean tide-levels , or if desired can rule the paper throughout its entire depth to represent feet , metres , \amp ; c. To Sir William Thomson the author 's thanks are due for the improved parallel slide and other details , and also to Mr. Leg ( the makei of the instrument ) for the design of the wheel-gearing .

