]\gt ; a heroid of does not usual render a ater s unfit to exhibit the ements of the oil films here ated is of course below the of the forces of cohcsion ; and thus the tension of oily may be expected to differ that due to a complcte film , and by addition of the tensions of a -oil of an oil-air sulface .
The determlllation of the of oily surfaccs is not { tter .
A cnpillary tube is , as there would be no security tlJat the degl'ee of mination within the tube the same outside .
results mfty be obtained from the rise of liquid betwee1l two parallel plOtes .
Two such plates of glass , at the ners b thin slJect metal , and pressed ethel .
near the centre , dipped the bath .
of this kind the height of vllell cleall was sured by a small quantity of oil , about to stop the ] ) or motions , was communicated to the the , it also over the surface included between and height was depressed to 48 .
Further additi ) of oil , even considertlble qnantity depressed the le to The effect of a small of oleate of soda is much reate ] .
By a the as depressed to 24 , which that the tension of a surface of soapy watel is much less the combined sions of a -oil and of an oil-air Slll.face .
According to Quincke , these laltcr tensions are respectively and by addition ; that of a watel-air Whensoal ) water is substituted for clean , the last number cel.tainly falIs to less half its valu , and therefore much below .
" " the Stability of a Rotating Spheroid of Perfeet \ldquo ; By .
H. BRYAN .
Commlxnicated by Professor .
H. DARWIN , .
Received , 1890 .
1 .
Tn my tion on " " The Waves on a Rotating Liquid pheroid of Finite Ellipticity , \ldquo ; I stated that it did not appear iblo to give a complete investigation of iberia of stability of sphcroid when the liquid it is free from all traces of equilibrium is to be broken by a disturbance of a perfcctly genera ] character .
As the problem in question appeared to be one of erable interest , I have , since writing the above paper , put the question to the test of calculation in the case of the simpler ] ) , and the results thus obtained ]Iave been sucl ] as to allow of extension to a perfectly general disturbance .
* In the country . .
Trans , 1889 , p. 187 .
Mr. G. H. Bryan .
On the Stability of a On page 210 of my paper .
I showed that , if we consider only displacements determined by the spheroidal sectorial harmonic of the cond degree , the limit of eccentricity consistent with stability as obtained from my equations agrees with that obtained by Riemann*and Basset .
This , of course , it should do , for the type of displacement considered in both investigations is the same , one in which the deformed surface becomes an ellipsoid , but does not remain one of revolution .
We thus have a necessary condition for stability .
But we do not know that it is a sufficient condition .
In order that this may be so , it is necessary that the critical form tbus obtained shall be stable for all other types of displacement .
The object of he present paper is to show that such is , in fact , the case .
Were it otherwise , the limit of eccentricity consistent with stability would have to be determined afresh .
It is needless to remark that we are here exclusively considering what Poincare calls " " ordinary\ldquo ; stability , as distinguished from " " secular\ldquo ; stability .
2 .
The symbols employed in the present paper are the same as in my former communication , and the results there proved will be here assumed .
For the sake of convenience , the notation and resuIts required for the present work are collected below , and references to the paper in question will be denoted by the letter [ E ] .
The letters are used as defined in [ E ] , S4 , 11 ) , ( 12 ) , viz. , if be the eccentricity of the sphoroid\mdash ; so that and is the reciprocal of the quantity denoted by in Thomson and Tait 's ' Natural Philosophy ' ( vol. 2 , S771 ) .
The functions , , , , are defined as in , S5 equations ( 24 ) to ( 27 ) , .
:\mdash ; . . . . . . .
( 1 .
) ( 2 .
) , , ( 4 .
) .
*'G6ttingen , Abhandlungen , ' vol. 9 ( 1860 ) , Iklathemat .
, S9 .
'Ireatise on Hydrodynamics , ' vol. 2 , p. 124 .
1890 .
] Rotating of Perfect Liquid .
The quantities and are expressible in a finite form in exactly the same way as the ordinary spherical harmonics of ths second kind .
* We have , in fact , where are known rational algebraic functions of degree and respectively in which au the coefficients are positive .
For example : \mdash ; , , and the corrcsponding functions of the third , fourth , and fifth degrees can be readily written down my table in the ' Cambridge Philosophical Proceedings ' by introducing the necessary changes in the , and putting " " ' in place of " " 3 .
In , S20 I showed that if we consider only displacements of the surface determined by a spheroidal harmonic of degree and rank , the condition of secular stability , which , in the preseut notation , is ( 7 .
) , is a sufficient , albeit not a , condition for stability when the liquid formlng the spheroid is perfect .
That the left-hand member of inequality is essentially positive when is odd has been proved by Poincare , and another proof is given below ( S9 ) .
In , S I showed that , in the case of the zonal harmonic disof even , the necessary and sufficien6 condition for stability is ( 8 .
) , * ' Cambridge Philosophical Society Proceedings , ' 1888 , p. 292 .
Mathemat vol. 7 , p. 326 .
Write for and for .
Mr. .
H. Bryan .
On the Stabitity of a and in , S18 that , for a sectorial harmonic displacement , the necessary and sufficient condition is that ; while ] ] , S 20 ] if , the last condition leads to exactly the same resuIts Riemann 's and Basset 's investigations ( as alreffiy mentioned ) , gives for the critical form whence , approximately . . . . . . . .
( 10 .
) , and the eccentricity 4 .
To prove that the spheroid is " " ordinarily\ldquo ; stable until this critical form is reached , we only have to sbow that conditions ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) , or ( 9 ) ( as the case may be ) are satisfied by this of for every value of and .
For this purpose I have calculated the numeric , al values of the products .
, and for of up to 4 , and , in the of the sectorial harmonics , up to inclusive , taking .
The resuIts calculated to four places of decimals are as follows , the last figure being only approximate:\mdash ; From this Table it appears that expression is positive , except when , and in the case of the first 1890 of Perfect Liquid .
r , ectorial harmonics in the Table .
Thus in every case in which exact conditions of stability have not been igated , the condition for secular slability given the inequality ( 7 ) katisfied .
It llains to apply the criteria ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) to the cases is satisfied .
5 .
take the of Tl , fact is negative in the above Table ( loes 11ot the spheroid in question is secnlarly unstable this ] type of .
lts is that the pheroid is oblnte hat form for the a pointed out in the distnrbed is also a spheroid of tion , is no form of bifurcation " " ) . .
} } .
condition of " " ordinary\ldquo ; bility , is . .
O. the value of member of equality is is iv ; is satislied .
in the en the sphel.oid becomes flattened out definitely , that ) ches the limit , we find . .
is positive .
accords with .
William Thomson 's is essentially ] vever o , if it is osed c to oidal .
6 .
Next sectorial hal'fflonics .
As the displacement a of as a wo deal the itical v of for disp a harmonic of , to idcr .
Now since . .
; * ' Acta Mathemat vol. 7 , p. 329 .
Mr. G. H. Bryan .
On the Stability of a . .
; .
The values of these expressions are all positive ; therefore condition ( 9 ) is satisfied in each case , and the spheroid is " " ordinarily\ldquo ; stable for the correspondin .
types of placement .
lt is therefore stable for all types of displacement considered in the oing table , except that for which it is , by hypothesis , ' : critical 7 .
On examining the values of given in the Table , it ppears probable as we proceed to harmonics of tler degrees this oduct diminishes in value , and that condition ( 7 ) is isfied nniversally in all the cases not considered above .
That such is actually the case we now proceed to .
The results are a hlight extension of those obtained in S 10 of Poincare 's paper , the method here employed being similar .
8 .
Consider the expression\mdash ; , and let us examine under what circumstances it is essentially positive .
formula ( 4 ) we have This will be essentially positive if the quantify to be integrated is always positive , that is , if for ] lvalues of lying between and cc , 0 lvhich will be the case if increases with 9 .
The result proved by Poincare , and assumed in the investi ations , namely , that if be odd\mdash ; Rotating Spheroid of Perfect Liquid .
is tially positive , follows at once .
For , as just proved , this will the case if , that is , eases with formula ( 2 ) it that , being is divisible by the ient will be rational algebraic functio1l of terlns positive .
This quotient evidently iuereases , hich proves 10 .
Let us to tho original tion , but suppose in ttdditiolt .
bolh are even .
We have ) that .
, increases with will be case if or ; or multiplying } ) Sint an are both even , it readily appears that vanish when Hen , left-hand side of the last inequality will be positive if it cases w ; this condition gives differelJ ' tiating Now and f satisfy the differential equations , ; efore we get and are itive , .
G. H. Bryan .
On the Stability of a . . . . . . . . . . .
( 11 .
) .
Writing for , we see that inequality ( 11 ) is a sufficient condition that the expression\mdash ; may be positive in the case of and both even , provided that ( 11 ) is satisfied for all of betwcen and 11 .
We have to consider two cases:\mdash ; I. Suppose .
Then condition ( 11 ) will be satisfied , for all values of , provided that .
Therefore is always whatever be the value of , provided tlJat r. In other words , for given values of , the product increases as increases , and is greatest when ( corresponding to the sectorial harmonics ) .
II .
Suppose and , therefore , .
Condition ( 11 ) may be written\mdash ; The first factor is positive provided that .
The second is Jlecessarily positive , for are not greater respectively than ; erefore n , and therefore , a fortvori , for all values of .
Hence , putting , and therefore we have\mdash ; , provided that is .
Therefore the product decreases for any given value whatever of as increases .
In particular , .
decreases as the number is increased .
12 .
Let us now apply these results to the under sideratio1l .
From the results of Case II , , ; and from the Table , .
and .
) are each less than for this particular value of .
Therefore , a and where 1890 .
] Spheroid of PerfLiquid .
and the is stable for harmonic displacements of From the results of Case II we also have , if be greater than 6 , , and the } . .
; thet'efore , a .
, if , by Case I , ; the ] eforc , a , 0 . .
where .
, and is equal to or greater than 6 .
Thus the of stabilit is satisfied for of , with the exceptior ) considered in which " " ord cotlditions of bility h been proved to hold good .
the results of the present paper prove clusively that ed of liquid , stabk ?
its be less than .
If the il , become unstable , and the assum the form of ellipsoid .
state of steady motion then ensues is forms knowtl as ) 's and Dedekind 's ellipsoids .
" " spin " " of the ill be } , constant and equal , sa ) .
to of tho liqnid will be an ellipsoirl , about the axis with angular veloci at this is initially the is in accordance with the esults of , SS 14 , 18 that the roots of the -equation comc c. for part will indicate disturb- with city .
It is unnccessary to at greater here .
It at the results of the present paper quite : ths sibjlj t ordinary , of Maclaurin 's form of one or more 1ings of rotating Iiquid .
This probably take place if we imagined the liquid face a figure of tion .
But such hypotances are devoid of interest , and , since it pears f the ) ults of the preseut that , BYhen we considcr displacc , Prof. J. J. Thomson and Mr. G. F. C. Searle .
lnents determined by harmonics of any even degree , the of stability\ldquo ; for the displacement symmetrical about the axis is the to chan ge sign , it is clear that hardly any less general constraint old suffice to produce such a resulk VI .
" " A Determination of ' ' the Ratio of the ElectromagIletic Unit of Electricity to the ectrostatic Unit By J. J. THOIISON , , F.R.S. , Cavendish Professor of Experimental Physics , Cambridge , and G. F. C. Peterhouse , Demonstrator in the Cavendish Laboratory , idge .
Received March 12 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments made by one of us in 1883 having givell a value for " " " " considerably smaller than those found in several recen researches on is subject , it was desirable to repeat the experiments .
The method used in 1883 was to find both the electrostatic and the electromagnetic measures of the capacity of a colldenser , the electrostatic measure being calculated from the dimensions of the condenser , and the eIectromagnetic measure by determining a esistance which would produce the same effect as that oduoed by repeated of the enser when placed in one of a .
In the experiments in 1883 the condenser used in determi1ling the electromagnetic measure was not the same as that for which the electrostatic capacity had been calculated , one without a guard ring , the equality of the capacity of this condenser and the guard ring condenser being tested by the method given in Maxwell 's ' rioity and Magnetism , ' vol. 1 , p. 324 .
In repeatino o. experiments we adopted at first the same method as before , using , however , a key of different design for testing the equality of the c , ondensers by Maxwell 's method .
We got very consistent results , practically with those obtained in 1883 .
may mention here , since it has been suggested that the } ) acity of the leads might explain the low value of " " \ldquo ; obtained previousl .
that the leads are allowed for -by the way the comparison between the two condensers is mffie , for the same leads are used in the determina- tion of the electromagnetic measure of the capacity of the auxiliary c:ondenser and in comparison of the capacity of this condenser with the one with the guard ring , and the capacity of the auxiliary condenser is adjusted until its capacity , plus that of the leads , the capacity of the guard ring condenser ; and in the measurements it is the capacity of the auxiliary oondenser , plus that of its leads , which is found .

