206 Prince Albert I of Monaco .
April 28 , 1898 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Cha .
The following Papers were read I. " On the Meteorological Observatories of the Azores .
" By H.S.H. Prince Albert I of Monaco .
Communicated\gt ; j J. Y. Buchanan , F.R.S. II .
" A Compensated Interference Dilatometer .
" By A. E. Tur , Communicated by Professor Clifton , F.R.S. III .
" A Calorimeter for the Human Body .
" By William Mail M.D. , F.R.S. IV .
" An Experimental Enquiry into the Heat given out by Human Body .
" By William Marcet , M.D. , F.R.S. 1 " On the Meteorological Observatories of the Azores .
" f H.S.H. The Prince Albert I of Monaco .
Comnn cated by Mr. J. Y. Buchanan , F.R.S. Received April \#151 ; Read April 28 , 1898 .
( Translation .
) In 1892 I brought before the British Association , met in Ec burgh , a project which my scientific cruises in the North Atla had suggested and preliminary experiments have matured .
I Is importance of meteorological observations is now universally rec nised , and a continually increasing number of centres of observal are being created in order to assist the progress of this science .
I proposed to establish on the Azores an advanced post , wb mission should be : 1st , to observe the birth of certain atmosph* disturbances , which appear to be formed in this region of | !
Atlantic ; 2nd , to correct the path of certain others which appear threaten the coasts of Europe and which are announced fr America at too great a distance of time and space for there to be assurance that more or less considerable modifications may not la-place which will affect their strength , their direction , and the date their arrival on the European coasts .
We should then have , on a point situated almost in the middle On the Meteorological Observatories of the 207 !
\gt ; Atlantic , an observatory , the work of which would also include ; study of seismic phenomena , and this with great advantage , bause , in certain circumstances , the earthquakes felt in Europe ve , in the first instance , affected the volcanic massif of the Azores , it is hardly necessai'y to say that those interested in the study of .restrial magnetism will view with pleasure the opening of an servatory which is to render useful services in this department of ence .
Many countries will profit directly by the observations id on the Azores , because they interest all branches of the utical profession as well as the populations of all the western asts of Europe .
The navigator approaching the end of a long .yage in a sailing vessel will here find the means of regulating his tronometers at the time when it is most wanted , namely , before aking the continental land .
Since the first mention of my project in 1892 , an event , which I vaited with much impatience , has arrived to help it , namely , the legraphic connection of the Azores with Europe .
Soon afterwards le Portuguese Government gave effect to my views by creating on le Island of Sr. Miguel , and under the direction of Captain Chaves , regular meteorological station , although fitted with the most odest means .
Finally , last year Captain Chaves wras commissioned to establish a the Island of Flores , the most westeidy of the Azores , a second leteorological station , the observations at which will be most useful or supplementing those of San Miguel .
Unfortunately , its means re even more modest than those of the preceding one , and the elegraph cable has not yet reached it .
In spite of the insufficient means of observation actually existing n the Azores , the results which they already furnish towards estab-ishing the paths of the depressions which cross the Atlantic , enable a presentiment to be formed of the part which they will play when heir outfit is more complete .
In order that science may the sooner profit by the advantages promised by the observatory of the Azores ; and in order to guarantee it against all the dangers which might cause an interruption of its functions , I propose to give it a constitution founded on the principle of an international guarantee , which would be secured by the pecuniary contributions of the countries interested .
It is principally to expose this idea that I have come to-day to speak of these observatories to the Royal Society .
Portugal , accepting the principle of the international regime , has commissioned Captain Chaves to invite the maritime nations interested to give their adhesion to my project and to associate themselves in the organisation of the above-mentioned meteorological service .
Q 2 Mr. A. E. Tutton .
It may therefore be hoped that in the near future an understal ing will be arrived at on the importance of the development tc given to the observatory of the Azores , and I ask the Royal Soeir whose influence is so great in the domain of science , to support its concurrence , the accession of England to the ideas which Iupti for the common interest .
64 A Compensated Interference Dilatometer .
" By A. E. Tutt( Assoc. R.C.S. Communicated by Captain Abney , C.i F.R.S. Received March 8 , \#151 ; Read April 28 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The author describes a form of Fizeau interference dilatome ; which he considers combines the best features of the apparat described by Benoit , and belonging to the Bureau International c Poids et Mesures , in Paris , * and that described by Pulfrich'f cc structed according to the modifications introduced into the meth by Abbe .
Moreover , besides other improvements , a new principl that of compensation for the expansion of the screws of the Fize* tripod which supports the object , is introduced , which enhances t sensitiveness of the method so highly as to render it applicab to the determination of the expansion of crystals in general , iiiclu ing those of chemical preparations .
Hitherto the application of tl Fizeau method has been confined to such crystals as could be obtain* large enough to furnish a homogeneous block at least a centimeti thick .
A block only 5 mm. thick is ample for use with the author compensated dilatometer .
The principle of the compensation d( pends upon the fact that aluminium expands 2*6 times as much \#163 ; platinum-iridium for the same increment of temperature .
The authc therefore employs , like Fizeau and Benoit , a tripod of platinutf iridium , and places upon its transverse table , through which pas the three screws , a disc of aluminium whose thickness is l/ 2*6thsc the length of the screws .
The space between the lower surface c the glass plate which is laid upon the upper ends of the screws t. assist in producing the interference , and the upper surface of th aluminium , then remains constant for all temperatures under observation , and if a crystal is laid upon the aluminium compensator th ?
whole amount of its expansion by rise of temperature is available for measurement by the interference method .
Hence the method h no longer a merely relative one , affording the difference of expansion between the tripod and the substance investigated , but afford^ directly absolute measurements of the expansion .
* 1 Trav .
et Memoires , ' 1881 , p. 1 .
t * Zeits .
fur Instrument 1893 , p. 365 .

