476 On the Variation in the Growth of Mammalian Tissue in Vitro according to the Age of the Animal .
By Albert J. Walton , M.S. , F.R.C.S. , M.B. , L.R.C.P. , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Prof. W. Bulloch , F.R.S. Received December 8 , 1914 .
) ( From the Bacteriological Department of the London Hospital .
) [ Plate 15 .
] In a previous communication* it was shown that there was considerable variation in the value , as a culture medium , of plasmata taken from different animals of the same species ; that these plasmata did not vary as to whether they were homogenous or autogenous , but that some plasmata were good media and some were bad .
During this investigation certain evidence arose that this difference might in part be due to the age of the animal .
In the present investigation a series of experiments was carried out to show what was the effect , if any , of the age of the animal upon the plasma as a culture medium , and upon the tissues as regards the power of growth .
Carrel , Burrows , Harrison , and Ingebrigtsen have shown in several papers that embryonic tissue tends to grow more rapidly and more vigorously than adult tissue .
There appears to have been , however , no work conducted on the characters of the plasma , although it has been frequently assumed that the plasma of the young or embryonic animals makes a more suitable medium than that of adults ; nevertheless it was permissible to believe that the reverse might in fact be true , and that the plasma of young animals is a less suitable medium .
It would appear important that this point should be settled , that thereby evidence , might be gained as to the controlling influences on the growth of young tissue in vivo .
Techniqu The following experiments were carried out entirely with the tissues of rabbits .
As far as possible animals were used that had been bred in the laboratory , so that the exact age was known .
This was the case with all the young animals .
In certain cases , however , adult rabbits were bought of unknown age , but in such cases they were all fully grown and therefore could be used as adult animals .
As far as could be judged , they were all over a year old .
The technique of Carrel was rigorously adhered to , the tissues being grown in pure plasma so that the characters of the growth might be * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , p. 452 ( 1914 ) .
Growth of Mammalian Tissue in Vitro .
unaffected by the presence of any stimulating or inhibiting substance .
' In the majority of cases two tissues were used , so as to lessen , as far as possible , any experimental errors .
A few cultures were made of the spleen , but most of the experiments were carried out with thyroid and liver .
These tissues as a rule grow well , and the growth is not obscured by the emigration of cells , as so often happens when spleen is used .
Young testicular tissue was not cultivated in the present series of experiments , for it was considered that , as this tissue only fully develops later in life , false conclusions might be arrived at if the immature testicle of the young rabbit was used .
In the majority of cases fresh tissue was made use of , and in this case cross experiments were generally performed , the tissue of young and old animals being grown in plasmata of both animals .
A certain number of experiments were conducted with stock cultures of adult testicle which had been growing for ten generations in a medium of plasma and tissue extract .
( 1 ) Cultivations of Splenic Tissue\#151 ; Experiment 1.-\#151 ; An adult rabbit two years old was ansesthetised .
The fur on the ventral surface of the body was removed , the skin sterilised , the carotid artery exposed , and the blood collected in sterile paraffined tubes placed in ice .
The blood was then collected from a young animal 10 days old and placed in ice-cold paraffined tubes .
Both bloods were centrifugalised .
The spleen was removed from the young and old animals and placed in Ringer 's fluid .
Four cultures were made of each spleen in each plasma , so that there were four groups .
At the end of 12 hours there was good emigration of round cells in all the preparations , but it was more marked in the case of the spleen of the young animals both in the young and old plasmata .
At the end of 48 hours there was a well marked growth of retiform tissue , which formed mosaic-like masses in the case of the young spleen in the old plasma , but was present in a less marked degree in the case of the old spleen in the old plasma .
In both cases such growth was apparently absent when the young plasma was used .
Owing to the amount of round cell emigration it was difficult to estimate accurately the extent of the growth , and hence experiments with this tissue were discontinued .
( 2 ) Ctiltivation of Thyroid arid Liver Tissues\#151 ; Eleven experiments , comprising 282 cultivations , were carried out in this group .
In all cases both the thyroid and liver were cultivated at the same time .
By this means experimental errors were less likely , for if the results Mr. A. J. Walton .
On Variation in the were due to such errors they would be less likely to occur in both groups .
The ages of the young animals varied from two days to two weeks , and during this limited period there seemed to be little , if any , variation in the nature of the tissues and plasmata as regards the capacity for growth .
One experiment will be described in detail , the others being carried out on precisely the same lines .
Experiment 2.\#151 ; An adult rabbit over a year old was anaesthetised .
The fur on the ventral surface of the body was removed , the skin sterilised , the carotid artery laid bare , and the blood collected in sterile paraffined tubes kept in ice .
This animal was kept anaesthetised .
Blood was collected from a young animal five days old and also placed in iced paraffined tubes .
Its thyroid and a piece of liver were removed and placed in sterile Ringer 's fluid .
The young animal was killed .
Similar tissues were removed from the old animal .
The blood was centrifugalised .
Cultures of the young animal were made in both plasmata , as were also those of the old animal , six cultures being made in each group .
The nature of the growth was observed and at certain periods specimens were fixed and stained .
After 48 hours the thyroid of the young animal showed marked growth in the old plasma , but that of the old animal in the old plasma , although showing considerable growth both of the connective and parenchymatous types of cell , was definitely less than that of the young animal .
On the other hand , both specimens in the young plasma showed either no growth at all or only a few cells growing from the edge of the tissue .
Similar results were obtained in the case of the liver .
The above results are well shown by the following Table:\#151 ; Old plasma .
Young plasma . !
Old tissue Young tissue ... Moderate growth Very good growth Very slight growth .
Slight growth .
The above experiment was performed again 10 times .
The old animals were in all cases fully developed , and the majority were known to be over one year of age .
The young animals varied in age between two days and two weeks .
The cultures were made in groups of four or six in each media and were prepared under identical conditions .
By taking groups of four or six specimens it was possible to estimate more accurately the changes in growth , for in the primary cultures it is unusual , excepting perhaps in the case of the testicle , to find that all the specimens have grown to an identical extent .
Moreover , the percentage of successful growths in a series is in Growth of Mammalian Tissue in Vitro .
itself evidence of value of the suitability of the media and the power of the tissue to grow .
The results of these experiments may be summarised as follows:\#151 ; ( a ) Young Tissues Growing in Old Plasma.\#151 ; It was found that growth was in all cases extensive and successful .
Cultivations occurred in 100 per cent , of the cases .
With the thyroid , masses of cuboidal cells were seen extending into the plasma , and between them were large numbers of branching connective tissue cells .
In the case of the liver , the growth was also extensive , and after 48 hours large masses of the characteristic deeply staining cuboidal cells were visible together with large numbers of connective tissue cells ( fig. 1 ) .
Successful results were again obtained in 100 per cent , of the eases .
In both groups the growth continued for four or five days before any signs of degeneration occurred .
( b ) Young Tissues Growing in Young Plasma.\#151 ; With this group there was a very marked difference .
There is considerable difficulty in obtaining the blood of these young animals , owing to their small size , and it was at first thought possible that the difference in growth might be due to the fact that the plasma so obtained was not in good condition .
It was found , however , that the results were practically constant even after these difficulties had been overcome .
In the case of the thyroid only 8 per cent , of the specimens showed any growth , and they were thus sharply differentiated from the specimens of the same tissue growing in old plasma .
Even in those cases in which the growth was present it was slight in amount .
In no case were any cuboidal cells seen , and even after three or four days there were only present a few connective cells growing from scattered areas at the edge of the tissue .
This result was constant apart from liquefaction of the plasma , which in other cases has been found to limit growth .
That is to say , the decrease in growth did not appear to be due to mechanical causes .
With the liver similar results were obtained .
In this case a larger number of the preparations showed growth , the results being positive in 26 per cent , of the cases .
In one specimen ( Experiment 5 ) there was very good growth , but in three other specimens of the same series there was no growth , and such a result did not occur again in the other series .
It is probable , therefore , that this result was an experimental error .
In the remaining specimens which showed growth the extent of the growth was slight .
In some cases a few outgrowths of cuboidal deeply staining cells were seen , but , in no case were they so extensive as when old plasma was used as a medium .
Mr. A. J. Walton .
On Variation in In the majority of cases only a few branching connective tissue cells were visible , and they , extended only for a short distance into the surrounding plasma , the difference between the amount of connective tissue growth in young and old plasma being very marked ( fig. 2 ) .
( c ) Old Tissues Growing in Old Plasma.\#151 ; In this group there was a moderate amount of growth , about 80 per cent , of the cultivations being successful .
In every experiment some of the specimens showed good growth .
On comparison , however , it was always seen that this growth was less than when young tissues were used .
In the case of the thyroid a few cuboidal cells were seen growing from the edge of the tissue after about 48 hours , growth being present in 70 per cent , of the specimens .
After a further 24 hours connective tissue cells were visible .
It was found in the parallel series that not only was growth more extensive when young tissue was used both as regards the parenchymatous and connective tissue cells , but that a larger percentage of specimens showed activity .
With the liver good results were obtained , the characters of the growth corresponding with that described in previous communications.* In this series growth took place in 88 per cent , of the specimens , and when present there were always to be seen masses of deeply staining cuboidal cells , but these masses were always less marked than when young tissue was grown in the same plasma .
Proliferation of connective tissue cells took place at a slightly later date , the cells soon growing beyond and between the masses of parenchymatous cells .
Here again the zone of connective tissue growth was always less marked than was the case with young tissue ( fig. 3 ) .
( d ) Old Tissue Growing in Young Plasma.\#151 ; This was found to be the worst combination .
The tissues apparently were not so active and the medium was less suitable .
In the majority of cases no growth took place .
The tissues stained poorly and apparently died .
In the case of the thyroid only 3 per cent , of the specimens showed any growth at all , and even in the successful cases this was extremely slight .
In the majority , even at the end of three or four days , the edge of the tissue remained sharply cut .
In some the plasma was liquefied , but in others this change had not taken place , so that here again the absence of the growth was not dependent upon a mechanical factor .
Even in the few cases where there was any evidence of growth , no cuboidal cells could be seen .
At most there were one or two elongated connective tissue cells to be found after a careful search , so that at first sight there was a tendency to believe that no growth had taken place .
* 4 The Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology , ' vol. 18 , p. 319 ( 1914 ) .
Growth of Mammalian Tissue in Vitro .
With the liver there were positive results in 9 per cent , of the cases , but even in these growth was extremely slight .
In no case were any cuboidal or parenchymatous cells seen .
There was very slight growth of connective tissue , so that after three days there could be seen in a few cases several long connective tissue cells growing here and there from the edge of the tissue ( fig. 4 ) .
Often a portion of the original tissue stained poorly and was mani festly dead .
These experiments , therefore , strongly confirmed the observations of previous workers , namely , that the tissue of young or embryonic animals shows more active growth than similar tissues taken from adult animals .
In addition to this , it appeared manifest that the plasma of such young animals was not nearly so suitable a medium as the plasma of adult animals .
Such a condition has not previously been described , and is so opposed to what one would at first sight believe , that it seemed necessary to confirm these experiments .
For this purpose further experiments were carried out with stock cultures of rabbit testicle .
These tissues had been growing vitro for 10 generations in a medium composed of two parts of plasma and one part of spleen extract .
At this period they were growing vigorously , so that at the end of 48 hours there was a wide zone of newly formed cells surrounding the original tissue .
Experiment 13.\#151 ; Stock specimens of rabbit testicles as described above were cultivated in groups of four each\#151 ; ( a ) in plasma obtained from a young-animal 10 days old ; ( b ) in plasma obtained from an adult rabbit over a year old ; ( c ) in a mixture of plasma from an old animal , two parts , and spleen extract one part .
At the end of 48 hours , the specimens cultivated in the mixture of old plasma and spleen extract were growing vigorously and -showed a very wide zone of active cells , mainly of the connective tissue type ( see fig. 5 ) .
These specimens served as a control .
Those growing in old plasma also showed a wide zone of cells of the connective tissue type , but the newly formed cells , as was to be expected , owing to the absence of a stimulating extract , were considerably fewer in number and did not extend so far into the surrounding media ( see fig. 6 ) .
In the case of the tissues growing in young plasma , growth was very slight .
There were only a few cells growing from the edge of the tissue ( see fig. 7 ) and in these cells but few mitotic figures were seen .
This experiment confirmed those carried out with fresh tissues , and there can be no doubt that young plasma is a less suitable medium for the growth of tissues than that of old animals .
It has been previously shown* that with older animals some plasmata are not such good media as others , and * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 87 , p. 452 ( 1914 ) .
Growth of Mammalian Tissue in Vitro .
that in such cases the plasma is always improved if it be frozen for a period of about three days , which is very suggestive that the poor growth is due to the presence of an inhibiting substance .
It is probable , therefore , that in young animals , also , the inhibiting substance is present in larger quantities , and hence the plasma makes a poor medium .
Conclusions .
1 .
Growth of tissues in vitro affords a valuable means of investigation as to the effects of age upon growth .
2 .
The tissues of young animals grow more rapidly and vigorously than those of adult animals .
3 .
The plasma of young animals is a much less suitable medium for the growth of tissue in vitro than the plasma of old animals .
4 .
The unsuitability of the plasma of young animals as a medium is probably due to the presence of an increased amount of some inhibiting substance .
EXPLANATION OF PLATE .
Growth of Fresh , Fig. 1.\#151 ; Two days ' growth of young liver in old plasma .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Two days ' growth of young liver in young plasma .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Two days ' growth of old liver in old plasma .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Two days ' growth of old liver in young plasma .
Growth of Stock Testicle .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; Two days ' growth of testicle in plasma plus spleen extract .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Two days ' growth of testicle in old plasma .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Two days ' growth of testicle in young plasma .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B , vol. 88 , Plate 15 .

