21 The Magnetic Materials in Clayivares .
By Arthur Hopwood .
( Communicated by Prof. H. B. Dixon , F.R.S. Deceived May 14 , \#151 ; Read June 19 , 1913 .
) Robert Boyle* first observed the magnetic nature of burnt clays and found that a brick , after being heated in a fire and subsequently allowed to cool in the same position , became magnetised in the same direction as the earth 's magnetic field .
Later , J. B. Beccariaf observed that bricks or ferruginous stones which had been struck by lightning were also permanently magnetised in the same direction as the earth 's magnetic field .
But Gheradij was the first to make a systematic study of the magnetism of burnt clays .
He examined all sorts of clay articles made at different epochs and at various places in Italy and Egypt , and demonstrated the existence of permanent magnetism in all kinds of earthenware or stoneware .
Further , he observed that antique clay wares permanently retained the magnetism induced in them during the process of baking , irrespective of the positions they afterwards occupied with respect to the earth 's magnetic field .
In brief , the researches of Gheradi established the existence of permanent magnetism in all kinds of antique and modern claywares , and also demonstrated its influence on the measurements of the terrestrial magnetic elements in brick edifices .
Taking advantage of the property which clay possesses of becoming magnetised during the process of baking and of permanently retaining the magnetism acquired through the action of the earth 's magnetic field , Giuseppe FolgheraiterS advanced the view that the various claywares found in excavations and ancient tombs afford an indelible record of the state of the earth 's magnetism at the epoch and place of their manufacture , * * * S * ' Experimenta et Observationes Physicse , ' London , 1691 , Chap. I , Expt. 12 ; The Philosophical Works of the Honourable Robert Boyle , ' by Peter Shaw , 1st Edition , London , 1725 , vol. 1 , p. 504 ; 2nd Edition , London , 1738 , vol. 1 , p. 506 ; ' Works of the Honourable Robert Boyle , ' by Thomas Birch , New Edition , London , 1772 , vol. 5 , p. 573 .
t ' Observations et Memoires sir la Physique , ' par M. l'Abbe Rozier , Paris , 1777 , vol. 9 , pp. 382-384 ; vol. 10 , pp. 14-16 .
X ' II Nuovo Cimento , ' 1862 , vol. 16 , p. 384 ; 1863 , vol. 18 , p. 108 ; see further , Gage and Lawrence , ' Phys. Rev. , ' 1899 , No. 3 , p. 304 .
* S ' Roma , Real Accad .
Lincei Atti , ' 1896 , vol. 5 , pp. 66-74 , 127-135 , 199-206 , 242-249 , 293-300 ; 1897 , vol. 6 , pp. 64-79 ; 1899 , vol. 8 , pp. 69-76,121-129,176-183 , 269-275 ; see also 'Seances de la Societe Fra^aise de Physique , ' 1899 , pp. 118-123 .
Mr. A. Hopwood .
and thereby furnish us with an indirect means of enlarging our knowledge of the secular variation of the magnetic inclination of the earth .
From various parts of Italy and Greece Dr. Folgheraiter collected a large number of antique vases and other clay articles , which had been placed in an upright position during the process of firing , and of which were also known the dates and places of their manufacture .
He then determined the directions of the magnetic axes of these antique vases , which led him to assign definite values to the magnetic inclination at the time and place of their manufacture .
" Without entering into the numerous details of these indirectly interesting researches , it will be sufficient for our purpose to state briefly that the work begun by G. Folgheraiter , and more recently extended by B. Brunhes and P. David* and P. L. Mercanton , f had almost exclusively for its object the determination of the orientation of the magnetism in antique claywares as a means of extending the knowledge of the secular changes in the magnetic inclination of the earth .
In all these memoirs on the magnetism of burnt clays it is assumed that baked clays owe their magnetic properties entirely to the presence of magnetic oxide of iron , and that this is derived partly from the orientation of the magnetite originally present in the clays , and partly from the reduction of the ferric oxide of the clays during the process of burning .
Numerous observations on different kinds of claywares led the author to conclude that this view was too limited , and it will be shown in the following pages that white , cream , grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares are feebly or moderately magnetic owing to the presence of black unfused grains of unchanged magnetic minerals and bluish-black fused globules of ferruginous silicates ; while flashed , brindled , or blue claywares are strongly magnetic owing to the presence of ferruginous silicates and magnetic oxide of iron .
Nature of the Magnetic Materials in Clay wares .
White , cream , grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares when carefully examined , preferably on a fractured surface , are found to be more or less speckled with black unfused grains or more frequently with bluish-black fused globules , varying in size from minute bubbles to large blisters .
The unfused black grains are generally unchanged granules or concretions of either magnetic or non-magnetic ferruginous minerals originally present in the unbaked clays .
The more common bluish-black fused globules are never present in the unburnt clays , and are always strongly attracted by a magnet .
* 'Comptes Rendus , ' 1901 , vol. 133 , pp. 155-157 ; 1903 , vol. 137 , pp. 975-977 ; 1904 , vol. 138 , pp. 41-42 ; 1905 , vol. 141 , pp. 567-568 .
t ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1906 , vol. 143 , pp. 139-140 .
The Magnetic Materials in Claywares .
23 When heated to 1300 ' C. in the reducing atmosphere of a blue brick kiln , or to 1350 ' C. in the oxidising atmosphere of a china biscuit oven , the fused globules sometimes melt , but otherwise undergo no change .
The analyses of the fused globules from different kinds of claywares show them to be complex ferruginous silicates of slightly variable composition .
Hence white , cream , grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares normally owe their magnetic properties , partly to the presence of black unfused grains of unchanged ferruginous minerals , and partly to the presence of bluish-black fused globules of complex ferruginous silicates .
Analyses of the Magnetic Globules in Claywares .
Globules from salt-glazed sewer pipes ( Burslem ) .
Globules from red bricks ( Hanley ) .
Globules from blue bricks ( Tunstali ) .
Silica per cent. per cent. per cent. 40 *52 42 *03 42 -83 Alumina 17*85 16 *50 15 *50 Ferrous oxide ( calc , from total iron ) 30 *73 31 *65 34 *27 Manganous oxide ... 0*92 0*74 0*83 Lime 4*33 4*55 2-74 Magnesia 4-82 3*53 2-93 Alkalies 0*58 0*90 0*72 99 -75 99 *90 t 99 *82 When grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares have been flashed , i.e. partly reduced , in the baking process so that their surfaces become greenish-black or bluish-black in places , they invariably contain more fused globules of ferruginous silicates than the corresponding normally fired claywares , together with varying amounts of an unfused magnetic material present in the greenish-black or bluish-black patches .
In some claywares , these unfused bluish-black patches can easily be separated mechanically from the fused globules of ferruginous silicates , but as their magnetic constituent is so uniformly distributed throughout the bluish-black patches it cannot be separated mechanically from the main body of the claywares .
On analysis , a greenish-black patch on a * piece of slightly flashed terra-cotta gave 2T per cent , of ferrous oxide and 6-5 per cent , of ferric oxide , indicating that only part of the ferric oxide had been reduced to magnetic oxide of iron , while a bluish-black patch on a badly-flashed red brick made from the same clay gave 2'8 per cent , of ferrous oxide and 57 per cent , of ferric oxide , corresponding to the proportions of these oxides in magnetic oxide of iron .
Hence , the unfused magnetic material Mr. A. Hopwood .
present in the greenish- or bluish-black patches on grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares is magnetic oxide of iron .
Blue claywares made by strongly heating a highly ferruginous clay , first in an oxidising and finally in a reducing atmosphere , consist of a blue-black unfused interior speckled with bluish-black fused globules , and an external perfectly fused blue film .
When a portion of a blue brick is heated to 1100 ' C. in the oxidising atmosphere of a red brick kiln , the external blue film and the internal bluish-black fused globules remain unaltered , while the blue-black unfused portion of the interior acquires the red colour of ferric oxide .
Both the bluish-black fused globules and the blue-black unfused interior are strongly magnetic , and in some speoimens they can be separated mechanically .
On analysis , the fused globules in blue claywares are found to be ferruginous silicates somewhat similar in composition as well as properties to those present in white , cream , grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares .
On analysis , the unfused interiors of two strongly magnetic blue claywares gave 2-3 and 2'5 per cent , of ferrous oxide to 47 and 57 per cent , of ferric oxide respectively , corresponding to the proportions of these oxides in magnetic oxide of iron ; while the unfused interiors of two less magnetic blue claywares made from the same clays gave 47 and 4'5 per cent , of ferrous oxide to 2'8 and 3'0 per cent , of ferric oxide respectively , showing that the reduction in the latter cases had proceeded beyond the limits requisite for the production of magnetic oxide of iron , and that ferrous oxide as well as ferroso-ferric oxide may be present in the unfused blue-black matrix of blue claywares .
It follows from these analyses that flashed , brindled , or blue claywares always owe their strongly magnetic properties to the presence of complex ferruginous silicates and magnetic oxide of iron .
Origin of the Magnetic Materials in Claywares .
As ordinary clays contain but small amounts of magnetite only a small proportion of the magnetic oxide of iron present in flashed , brindled , or blue claywares can have been derived from the magnetite originally present in the clays , and consequently the larger proportion must obviously have been produced by the reducing action of the kiln gases on the finely divided oxides , hydroxides , or carbonates of iron distributed uniformly throughout the clays .
The derivation of the fused globules of ferruginous silicates is quite different from that of the magnetic oxide of iron .
While the latter would appear to be derived generally from the precipitated or colloid oxides , hydroxides , or carbonates of iron disseminated throughout the clays , the former would appear to be derived from the granules or concretions of ferruginous minerals like iron pyrites , cupriferous pyrites , siderite , haematite , The Magnetic Materials in Clay wares .
magnetite , menaccanite , chromite , glauconite , biotite , hornblende , etc. , which always occur in clays in masses varying in size from minute particles to large pieces .
It is well known by clayworkers* that when a clay containing granules or concretions of ferruginous minerals is easy-fired in a strongly oxidising atmosphere , these minerals are left in the product as unfused black grains , while if the clay be fast-fired or hard-fired in a slightly oxidising or neutral atmosphere , or better if the , clay be over-fired in a slightly reducing atmosphere , these minerals fuse with the surrounding matrix , producing small bubbles or large blisters of a bluish-black ferruginous slag .
In conformity with this , the author observes that easy-fired white , cream , grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares are less magnetic than hard-fired claywares and considerably less magnetic than over-fired claywares made from the same clays .
To test these explanations of the origin of the magnetic materials present in claywares , six clays used in the manufacture of different kinds of claywares were heated separately in different kilns ranging in temperature from 600 ' to 1350 ' C. The clays selected for investigation were a china clay , a ball clay , a stoneware clay , a fireclay , a common brick clay , and a red terracotta clay , which contained 0*27 , 0*55 , 1*3 , 2*2 , 3*5 , and 5*5 per cent , of iron respectively .
The granular and concretionary ferruginous minerals were removed from portions of these clays by passing them through a fine sieve and subjecting them to an electromagnet , then elutriating the powders with water in a Schone 's apparatus , f and finally collecting the purified clays from the suspension in water by sedimentation .
The purified and the naturally occurring clays were then pressed separately into small tiles and heated whilst enclosed in seggars in the most strongly oxidising portions of ( 1 ) a ceramic thermoscope kiln raised to 600 ' C. in 12 hours ; ( 2 ) a white earthenware enamel kiln raised to 750 ' C. in 10 hours ; ( 3 ) a white earthenware majolica kiln raised to 1000 ' C. in 20 hours ; ( 4 ) a red terra-cotta kiln raised to 1100 ' C. in 80 hours ; ( 5 ) a reddish-brown roofing the kiln raised to 1180 ' C. in 80 hours ; ( 6 ) a white earthenware biscuit oven raised to 1250 ' C. in 40 hours ; and ( 7 ) a china biscuit oven raised to 1350 ' C. in 40 hours .
In every case , the purified clays gave white , cream , grey , buff , red , or brown non-magnetic bodies free from black specks of either unfused grains or fused globules , showing that the magnetisation of ordinary clays , when heated in strongly oxidising kilns , originates in the granular or concretionary ferruginous minerals and not in the precipitated or colloid oxides , hydroxides , or carbonates of iron present in the clays .
The naturally occurring clays heated * Cf .
E. Orton , ' Trans. Amer .
Cer .
Soc. , ' 1903 , vol. 5 , pp. 377-430 .
t Cf .
' Zeitschr .
f. Anal. Chem. , ' vol. 7 , p. 20 .
Mr. A. Hopwood .
to 600 ' , 750 ' , or 1000 ' C. in strongly oxidising atmospheres gave white , cream , grey , buff , or red magnetic bodies , which were speckled with black unfused grains of unchanged ferruginous minerals , but with no bluish-black fused globules of ferruginous silicates ; moreover , the amounts of magnetic materials they contained were rather less than those present in the unbaked clays , showing that ordinary clays , when heated in strongly oxidising kilns ranging in temperature from 600 ' to 1000 ' C. , become magnetised only by the orientation of the magnetic minerals originally present in the unburnt clays .
The naturally occurring clays , when heated to 1100 ' C. in the oxidising part of the red terra-cotta kiln , left white , cream , grey , buff , or red magnetic bodies speckled with many black unfused grains of unchanged ferruginous minerals and a few bluish-black fused globules of ferruginous silicates ; further , when the same clays were heated in the oxidising portions of the previously mentioned , higher temperature , clayware kilns they left similarly coloured magnetic bodies generally containing more fused globules of ferruginous silicates and less unfused grains of unchanged ferruginous minerals , showing that ordinary clays , when heated in oxidising clayware kilns ranging in temperature from 1000 ' to 1350 ' C. , become magnetic , partly owing to the orientation of unchanged magnetic minerals and partly to the conversion of granular or concretionary ferruginous minerals to fused globules of complex ferruginous silicates.* When the clays were heated in the slightly reducing portions of the above clayware kilns , or better when heated to 1300 ' C. in the strongly reducing atmosphere of a blue brick kiln , the purified clays yielded white , grey , or blue magnetic bodies containing unfused magnetic oxide of iron but free from fused globules of ferruginous silicates , while the naturally occurring clays yielded similarly coloured magnetic bodies containing unfused magnetic oxide of iron and also fused globules of ferruginous silicates .
This shows that ordinary clays when heated strongly in reducing kilns become highly magnetic due to the formation of complex ferruginous silicates and magnetic oxide of iron .
Amounts of the Magnetic Materials in Claywares .
In view of the fact that the magnetic disturbances existing in magnetic observatories and physical laboratories have in many cases been found to be due to the brickwork of the buildings , f magneticians and physicists have to * Cf .
G. Folgheraiter , ' Eoma , Real Accad .
Lincei Atti , ' 1895 , vol. 4 , 2 , pp. 78-85 ; 1897 , vol. 6 , 2 , pp. 368-376 .
t Cf Lamont , ' Abhandl .
d. K. Bayr .
Akad .
d. Wiss .
, Math. Phys. , ' 1847 , vol. 5 , p. 24 ; F. Kohlrausch , ' Wied .
Ann. , ' 1883 , vol. 19 , p. 142 ; R. W. Willson , ' Amer .
Journ. Sci. , ' 1890 , vol. 39 , pp. 87-93 , 456-470 .
The Magnetic Materials Claywares .
be very careful in the selection of building materials to be employed for such purposes.* In consequence , the author has determined the combined amounts of the magnetic materials present in the different kinds of claywares made in various parts of the country , in order to ascertain which would and which would not be suitable for the construction of such buildings .
The combined amounts of the magnetic materials present in each kind of clayware were determined by powdering separately several specimens , representing all grades from the best to the worst of each kind , and then weighing the black particles which adhered to a 12-inch horse-shoe magnet when its poles were moved repeatedly through the finely powdered mass placed upon a piece of glazed paper .
In the case of white , cream , grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares , the complete separation of the black magnetic materials from the non-magnetic matrix was usually accomplished after subjecting their powders to the magnet for 5-10 hours , but in the case of flashed , brindled , blue , or black claywares the complete separation of the magnetic from the non-magnetic materials could not always be made even by a much more prolonged application of this process .
For convenience of description the claywares are roughly divided according to their colour into six classes , i.e. white , grey , yellow , red , blue , or black claywares .
Each of these classes contains widely different varieties , which are distinguished in this paper by brief statements of their uses or the clays and other materials employed in their production at the same time as the variation of the combined amounts of the magnetic materials in each variety is given .
( i ) White Claywares.\#151 ; Porcelain or china made either from a mixture of china clay and felspar , or from a mixture of china clay , ball clay , cornish stone , and calcined bones , is always feebly magnetic , f and contains from traces to 0'002 per cent , of black magnetic materials .
Glazed white earthenware or glazed white stoneware made for ornamental , household , or electrical purposes , from a mixture of china clay , ball clay , cornish stone or felspar , and flint , is also feebly magnetic , and contains from 0-0005 to 0'005 per cent , of black magnetic materials .
The coarser white or cream terra-cotta and also ornamental or facing bricks made from common ball clays are more magnetic , and generally contain from O'OOl to OT per cent , of magnetic materials ; while the still coarser white or grey firebricks made from china clay refuse or from disintegrated granite usually contain from 0'01 to l'O per cent , of black magnetic substances , although as much as 5 per cent. * Cf .
C. C. Marsh , ' Observations at the United States Naval Observatory , ' Washington , 1887 , Appendix I , pp. 1-37 .
t Cf .
M. Faraday , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1846 , vol. 53 , Part I , p. 29 .
Mr. A. Hopwood .
is frequently found in badly-fired specimens having speckled bodies or flashed surfaces .
Further , the white , pink , green , or blue floor tiles for tesselated or mosaic pavements made by colouring white-burning clayey mixtures with a zinc , tin , nickel , chromium , or cobalt stain are technically and magnetically similar to the finer qualities of white earthenware , and contain from 00005 to 0'005 per cent , of black magnetic bodies .
( ii ) Grey Claywares.\#151 ; Glazed stoneware made from siliceous ball clays for culinary , preserving , bottling , or electrical purposes usually contains from 0 001 to 0-5 per cent , of magnetic materials , although more than 1 per cent , is often present in badly speckled or flashed bodies .
The coarser salt-glazed stoneware made from vitreous fireclays for sanitary purposes is generally more magnetic and usually contains from 0-015 to 5'0 per cent , of black magnetic materials , but in badly speckled , black-cored , or flashed specimens the proportion is often as high as 10 per cent. ( iii ) Bvff or Ycllovj Claywares.\#151 ; Cream or buff claywares made from various grades of tertiary or carboniferous buff-burning fireclays vary considerably in their magnetic qualities .
Glazed buff tiles , teapots , and similar goods made for ornamental or household uses usually contain from 0001 to 05 per cent , of magnetic materials , though those with badly speckled or flashed bodies , almost invariably covered with dark-coloured glazes , often contain more than 1 per cent. Buff floor tiles made from high grade buffburning clays for tesselated or mosaic pavements are always feebly magnetic , and usually contain from O'OOl to 025 per cent , of black magnetic materials ; but the ordinary buff quarry floor tiles , terra-cotta , and also paving , facing , or ornamental bricks generally contain from 0005 to 1'0 per cent , of magnetic substances .
The coarser buff fire-bricks , glazed bricks , and similar refractory wares made from lower grade fireclays are more magnetic , and generally contain from 0 01 to 5-0 per cent , of black magnetic substances , while 10 per cent , is often found in specimens having black cores , speckled bodies , or flashed surfaces .
Similarly , the cream or yellow claywares made from calcareous ferruginous clays or calcareous clayey mixtures vary somewhat like the refractory claywares in their magnetic properties , and usually contain from 0'005 to 5-0 per cent , of black magnetic substances .
Further , the grey or drab floor tiles for tesselated or mosaic pavements made from a high grade buff-burning clay and manganese dioxide or puddler 's tap cinder , are invariably more magnetic than the technically similar buff floor tiles , and usually contain from 0005 to 1*0 per cent , of black magnetic materials .
( iv ) Bed or Brown Claywares.\#151 ; Red or brown claywares made from highly ferruginous clays vary greatly in their magnetic properties .
Glazed red tiles , teapots , and similar wares made for ornamental or household purposes The Magnetic Materials Claywares .
generally contain from 0-001 to 1*0 per cent , of magnetic materials , though as much as 5 per cent , is often found in specimens having badly speckled or flashed bodies covered with dark-coloured glazes .
Salmon or red floor tiles made from high grade red-burning clays or clayey mixtures for tesselated or mosaic pavements , are always feebly magnetic , and contain from O'OOl to 0 3 per cent , of black magnetic materials ; but the ordinary red quarry floor tiles , plant pots , terra-cotta , and also ornamental , paving , or facing bricks , generally contain from 0*005 to 1*0 per cent , of black magnetic substances .
The coarser common red building bricks and red firebricks , as well as red and brown roofing tiles , are more magnetic and generally contain from 0'01 to 10 per cent , of black magnetic substances , but 20 per cent , is frequently found in badly fired specimens having black cores , speckled bodies , or flashed surfaces .
Further , the chocolate floor tiles for tesselated or mosaic pavements made from a high grade red-burning clay and manganese dioxide or puddler 's tap cinder , - are invariably more magnetic than the technically similar red floor tiles , and usually contain from 0*005 to 1*0 per cent , of black magnetic bodies .
( v ) Blue or Brindled Claywares.\#151 ; Blue , brindled , or flashed claywares made by heating ferruginous clays first in an oxidising , and finally in a reducing atmosphere , are always very magnetic , the intensity of their magnetisation depending upon the extent of the conversion of the finally disseminated oxides of iron and the grains of ferruginous minerals to magnetic oxide of iron and ferruginous silicates .
Brindled bricks and other partially reduced claywares like grey , buff , or red claywares having flashed surfaces , yield powders of which 10 to 50 per cent , usually adheres to a magnet , while blue bricks , blue quarry floor tiles , and other completely reduced claywares give impalpable powders , the whole of wdiieh often adheres to a magnet .
This shows that either the whole mass of a uniformly blue clayware is a ferruginous silicate having strongly magnetic properties , * or more probably that the magnetic oxide of iron produced by the reduction of the homogeneously distributed ferric oxide is uniformly disseminated throughout the mass of the clayware , making the separation of the magnetic from the nonmagnetic materials impossible by mechanical means .
( vi ) Black Claywares.\#151 ; The greatest variation in magnetic qualities is found in the black claywares used for ornamental or paving purposes .
Those made from a ferruginous clay , manganese dioxide , and ironstone , are usually feebly magnetic and generally contain from 0 01 to 1*0 per cent , of magnetic materials ; but those made from a ferruginous clay and * Cf .
E. Orton , ' Trans. Amer .
Cer .
Soc. , ' 1903 , vol. 5 , pp. 377-430 .
The Magnetic Materials Claywares .
puddler 's tap cinder are generally strongly magnetic , and usually yield powders the whole of which adheres to the poles of a magnet .
The general conclusions to be drawn from these analyses are that all baked claywares are magnetic , and that different kinds , as well as different specimens of the same kind , contain extremely varying amounts of black magnetic materials .
Black , blue , or brindled claywares , and also badly-fired grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares having black interiors , speckled bodies , or flashed surfaces , are almost invariably strongly magnetic ; while white , cream , grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares having none of these imperfections are always feebly magnetic .
Whenever claywares have speckled bodies , flashed surfaces/ or black cores , they are always much more magnetic than the corresponding ones free or relatively free from these defects ; and , consequently , the intensities of the magnetisation of any white , cream , grey , yellow , buff , red , or brown claywares can be roughly inferred from a cursory examination of the extent of the specking , flashing , or black-coring they exhibit .
Building Materials for Physical Laboratories and Magnetic Observatories .
The strongly magnetic nature of certain claywares shows that great care must be exercised in the choice of these materials for the construction of magnetic observatories and physical laboratories , or serious disturbances may take place during observations with delicate magnetic instruments .
The suitability of claywares for building purposes , or the choice between two or more claywares , can often be readily inferred from a cursory examination of their outward characteristics .
In other cases , the problem can be solved very readily by determining the combined amounts of the magnetic materials in their powders by extraction with a magnet .
Many physical laboratories are in existence in which greater care in the selection of the claywares used would have considerably reduced the magnetic disturbances existing in them .
Some are built with badly speckled and flashed bricks , and others even contain brindled and blue claywares .
These are not by any means the least magnetic of the claywares , and consequently on delicate magnetic instruments they will cause disturbances which could have been easily reduced to a negligible extent by a more careful selection of the building materials .

