The Physiological Action of Choline and " The Physiological Action of Choline and Neurine .
" By F. W. Mott , M.D. , F.R.S. , and W. 1 ) .
Halliburton , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 13 , \#151 ; Read April 20 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The cerebro.-spinal fluid removed from cases of brain atrophy , particularly from cases of General Paralysis of the Insane , produces when injected into the circulation of anaesthetised animals ( dogs , cats , rabbits ) , a fall of arterial blood pressure , with little or no effect on respiration .
This pathological fluid is richer in proteid matter than the normal fluid , and among the proteids , nucleo-proteid is present .
The fall of blood pressure , is , however , due not to proteid , nor to inorganic constituents , but to an organic substance , which is soluble in alcohol .
This substance is precipitable by phospho-tungstic acid , and by chemical methods was identified as choline .
The crystals of the platinum double salt , which , when crystallised from 15 per cent , alcohol , are characteristic octahedra , form the most convenient test for the separation and identification of this base .
The nucleo-proteid and choline doubtless originate from the disintegration of the brain tissue , and their presence indicates that possibly some of the symptoms of General Paralysis may be due to auto-intoxication ; these substances pass into the blood , for the cerebro-spinal fluid functions as the lymph of the central nervous system .
We have identified choline in the blood removed by venesection from these patients during the convulsive seizures which form a prominent symptom in the disease .
Normal cerebro-spinal fluid does not contain nucleo-proteid or choline , or if these substances are present , their amount is so small that they cannot be identified .
Normal cerebro-spinal fluid produces no effect on arterial pressure ; neither does the alcoholic extract of normal blood or of ordinary dropsical effusions .
The presence of choline in the pathological fluids will not explain the symptoms of General Paralysis ; for instance , it will not account for the fits just referred to .
Its presence , however , is an indication that an acute disintegration of the cerebral tissues has occurred .
If other poisonous substances are also present , they have still to be discovered .
Our proof that the toxic material we have specially worked with is choline , rests not only on chemical tests , but also on the evidence afforded by physiological experiments ; the action of the cerebro-spinal substance exactly resembles that of choline .
Neurine , an alkaloid closely related to choline , is not present in the fluid ; its toxic action is much more powerful , and its effects differ considerably from those of choline .
Drs. F. W. Mott and W. D. Halliburton .
Physiological Action of Choline .
The doses employed were from 1 to 10 c.c. of a 02 per cent , solution , either of choline or of its hydrochloride .
These were injected intravenously .
The fall of blood pressure is in some measure , due to its action on the heart , but is mainly produced by dilatation , of the peripheral vessels , especially in the intestinal area .
This was dmonstrated by the use of an intestinal oncometer .
The limbs and kidneys are somewhat lessened in volume ; this appears to be a passive effect , secondary to the fall in general blood pressure .
The drug causes a marked contraction of the spleen , followed by an exaggeration of the normal curves , due to the alternate systole and diastole of that organ .
The action on the splanchnic vessels is due to the direct action of the base on the neuro-muscular mechanism of the blood vessels themselves .
for after the influence of the central nervous system has been removed by section of the spinal cord , or of the splanchnic nerves , choline still causes the typical fall of blood pressure .
The action of peripheral ganglia was in other experiments excluded by poisoning the animal previously with nicotine .
Section of the vagi produces no effect on the results of injecting choline .
We have obtained no evidence of any direct action of the base on the cerebral vessels .
Choline has little or no action on nerve trunks , as tested by their electrical response to stimulation .
This aspect of the subject has been taken up by Dr. Waller and Miss Sowton , who will publish their results fully in a separate paper .
Choline has no effect on respiration .
The effect of choline soon passes off , and the blood pressure returns to its previous level .
This is due partly to the great dilution of the substance injected by the whole volume of the blood , and may be partly due to the excretion of the alkaloid , or to its being broken up into simpler substances by metabolic processes .
We could not find it in the urine .
If the animal has been previously anaesthetised with a mixture of morphine and atropine , the effect produced by choline is a rise of arterial pressure , accompanied by a rise of the lever of the intestinal oncometer .
Other anaesthetics cause no change in the usual results .
We consider this observation of some importance , for it shows how the action of one poison may be modified by the presence of another .
This has some bearing on General Paralysis , for the arterial tension in that disease is usually high , not low , as it would be if choline were the only toxic agent at work .
The Physiological Action of Choline and Physiological Action of Neurine .
The doses employed varied from 1 to 5 c.c. of a OT per cent , solution .
These were injected intravenously .
Neurine produces a fall of arterial pressure , followed by a marked rise , and a subsequent fall to the normal level .
Sometimes , especially with small doses , the preliminary fall may be absent .
Sometimes , especially with large doses , by which presumably the heart is more profoundly affected , the rise is absent .
The effect of neurine on the heart of both frog and mammal is much more marked than is the case with choline ; in the case of both choline and neurine , the action on the frog 's heart is antagonised by atropine .
The slowing and weakening of the heart appear to account for the preliminary fall of blood pressure ; in some cases this is apparently combined with a direct dilating influence on the peripheral vessels .
The rise of blood pressure which occurs after the fall , is due to the constriction of the peripheral vessels , evidence of which we have obtained by the use of oncometers for intestine , spleen , and kidney .
After the influence of the central nervous system has been removed by section of the spinal cord , or of the splanchnic nerves , neurine still produces its typical effects .
After , however , the action of peripheral ganglia has been cut off by the use of nicotine , neurine produces only a fall of blood pressure .
It therefore appears that the constriction of the vessels is due to the action of the drug on the ganglia ; in this , it would agree with nicotine , coniine , and piperidine .
Section of the vagi produces no influence on the results of injecting neurine .
In animals anaesthetised with morphine and atropine , injection of neurine causes only a rise of blood pressure , which is accompanied with constriction of peripheral vessels .
Neurine produces no direct results , so far as we could ascertain , on the cerebral blood vessels .
Neurine is intensely toxic to nerve-trunks ( Dr. Waller and Miss Sowton ) .
It produces a marked effect on the respiration .
This is first greatly increased , but with each successive dose the effect is less , and ultimately the respiration becomes weaker , and ceases altogether .
The animal can still be kept alive by artificial respiration .
The exacerbation of respiratory movements will not account for the rise of arterial pressure ; the two events are usually not synchronous , and an intense rise of arterial pressure ( due , as previously stated , to contraction of peripheral blood vessels ) may occur when there is little or no increase of respiratory activity or during artificial respiration .
As confirmatory of Cervello 's statement that neurine acts like Prof. E. Way mouth Reid .
curare on the nerve endings of voluntary muscle , and to which he attributes the cessation of respiration , we may mention that after an animal has been poisoned with neurine , asphyxiation causes little or none of the usual convulsions .
The full paper contains references to previous work on the subject , and complete details of the methods used , and the cases investigated ; it is illustrated by reproductions of numerous tracings .
[ Note added April 20 , 1899.\#151 ; -It should be mentioned that in the " cases of brain atrophy referred to , the cerebro-spinal fluid was removed soon after death .
Since the foregoing abstract was written , we have , however , had the opportunity of examining two specimens removed during life by lumbar puncture , and the results of our experiments with these corroborate the conclusions previously arrived at .
] " On Intestinal Absorption , especially on the Absorption of Serum , Peptone , and Glucose .
" By E. Waymouth Reid , E.R.S. , Professor of Physiology in University College , Dundee , St. Andrew 's University , N.B. Received March 30 , \#151 ; Read April 20 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments detailed in the full paper deal with the absorption from the intestine of the animal 's own serum , and of solutions of glucose and peptone .
The method employed has been that introduced by Leubuscher , in which two loops of intestine are simultaneously employed , the one the experimental , and the other the control , loop .
The conclusions arrived at are as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
A physiological activity of the intestinal epithelium in the act of absorption is demonstrated by\#151 ; ( a ) The absorption by an animal of its own serum ( or even plasma ) under conditions in which filtration into blood capillaries or lacteals , osmosis , and adsorption are excluded .
( b ) By the cessation or diminution of the absorption of serum when the epithelium is removed , injured , or poisoned , in spite of the fact that removal , at any rate , must increase the facilities for osmosis and filtration .
2 .
The activity of the cells is characterised by a slower uptake of the organic solids of the serum than of the water , and a rather quicker uptake of the salts than of the water .
The relations to one another of the absorptions of these various constituents is variable in different regions of the intestinal canal ( upper ileum , lower ileum , and colon ) .

