1887 .
] Classification of Animals named Dinosauria .
November 24 , 1887 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice was given from the Chair of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the list of Officers and Council nominated for election was read as follows:\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Professor George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer , \#151 ; John Evans , D.C.L. , LL. D. o . .
f Professor Michael Foster , M.A. , M.D. Secretaries.\#151 ; \lt ; mi _ , _ . . .
, , .
" " ' \ The Lord Rayleigh , M.A. , D.C.L. Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Professor Alexander William Williamson , LL. D ; Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Sir William Bowman , Bart. , M.D. ; Henry Bowman Brady , F.L.S. , F.G.S. ; Professor Arthur Cayley , D.C.L. , LL. D. ; W. T. Thiselton Dyer , M.A. ; Professor David Ferrier , M.A. , M.D. ; Edward Frankland , D.C.L. ; Arthur Gamgee , M.D. ; Professor Joseph Henry Gilbert , M.A. ; Professor John W. Judd , P.G.S. ; Professor Herbert McLeod , F.I.C. ; William Pole , Mus. Doc .
; William Henry Preece , M.I.C.E. ; Admiral Sir George Henry Richards , K.C.B. ; Professor Arthur William Rucker , M.A. ; the Earl of Rosse , D.C.L. , LL. D. ; Sir Bernhard Samuelson , Bart. , M.I.C.E. The Rev. Octavius Pickard-Cambridge was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Classification of the Fossil Animals commonly named Dinosauria .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. , Professor of Geography in King 's College , London .
Received August 31 , 1887 .
Three classifications of the Dinosauria have been proposed , which differ from each other in the principles on which their authors proposed to make the divisions .
First in time is Professor Cope 's classification ( ' Philadelphia , Acad. VOL. XL1I1 .
Q Prof. H. G. Seeley .
Classification [ Nov. 24 , Nat. Sci. Proc. , ' November 13th , 1866 , and December 31st , 1867 ; ' Amer .
Phil. Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 14 , Part I ) .
He relied upon the characters of the tarsus and the ilium ; and on their varied condition divided Dinosaurs into three orders named Orthopoda , Goniopoda , and Symphopoda .
In the Orthopoda , the generic types associated are Scelidosaurus , Hylaeosaurus , Iguanodon , and Hadrosaurus .
And in this group the relations of the tibia and fibula are compared to those of modern Lizards , the proximal tarsals being distinct from each other and from the tibia .
The ilium has a narrowed anterior prolongation .
The Goniopoda is so named from the abrupt flexure of the tarsus in the middle , which prevented the foot being extended in a line with the leg , so that the animals are plantigrade .
The astragalus is distinct from the tibia , but embraces its distal end .
The anterior portion of the ilium is dilated and plate-like .
The genera in this group comprise Megalosaurus , Laslaps , Coelosaurus , \amp ; c. The Symphopoda comprises animals having the first series of tarsal bones confluent with each other and with the tibia .
The anterior part of the ilium is dilated and plate-like .
The type genera are Ornithotarsus and Compsognathus .
Professor Huxley rejected Professor Cope 's groups because he considered that the relations of the tarsal bones to the tibia and fibula , which were supposed to characterise the Goniopoda , are also found in the Orthopoda .
I am not concerned to inquire how far this criticism invalidates Cope 's nomenclature , which does not rest wholly upon tarsal characters for definition ; but it may be remarked that Professor Marsh subsequently obtained specimens which proved that there are many Dinosaurs in which the astragalus does not embrace the tibia .
In place of Cope 's three orders Professor Huxley offered a classification founded upon characters of the teeth , mandible , ilium , femur , and the absence or presence of dermal armour .
He divided the order Dinosauria into three groups or families , named Scelidosauridee , and Iguanodontidce .
And it was farther proposed to unite these families with Compsognathus into an order , Ornithoscelida ( 'Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , ' vol. 26 , February , 1870 ) .
The characters used for its definition are different from those relied upon by Cope .
The Megalosanridse is co-extensive with the Goniopoda .
The Orthopoda is subdivided , chiefly on details of tooth character and the presence of dermal armour in the Scelidosauridae , and its supposed absence in the Iguanodontidse ; but the grounds for the division became less evident when Mr. Hulke found dermal armour well developed in his Iguanodon Seelyi ( ' Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , ' vol. 38 , p. 144 , May , 1882 ) .
Subsequently Professor Marsh , in a series of memoirs dating from 1878 to 1884 , proposed to divide the Dinosauria into four orders and 1887.1 of Animals commonly named Dinosauria , 167 three sub-orders .
The characters used in the classification are drawn from all parts of the skeleton .
The chief orders are the Comprising the allies of Cetiosaurns ; the Stegosauria , which includes the allies of Soelidosaurus ; the Orn formed for the allies of Iguanodon ; and the Theropoda , which includes genera related to Megalosaurus .
The sub-orders grouped under the Theropoda are named from their typical genera Coduria and Compsognatha .
The chief difference of Marsh 's system from that of Huxley is that he separated the allies of Cetiosaurus from the Iguanodontidae to form the type of a primary division of the group , as I had suggested ( ' Greol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , ' vol. 30 , 1874 , p. 690 ) , and named it Sauropoda .
O therwise the Theropoda is identical with the Megalosauridae ; the Ornithopoda is the Iguanodontidae similarly re-named ; while the Stegosauria is the Scelidosauridae of Huxley , enlarged like the other groups by Professor Marsh 's admirable discoveries , and renamed .
The characters on which these animals should be classified are , I submit , those which pervade the several parts of the skeleton , and exhibit some diversity among the associated animal types .
The pelvis is perhaps more typical of these animals than any other part of the skeleton , and should be a prime element in classification .
The presence or absence of the pneumatic condition of the vertebrae is an important structural difference .
Differences in the construction of the base of the skull are indicative of affinities .
The presence or absence of armour is less important , since it may show all grades of development from the perfect shield of Polacanthus to small granules in the skin ; and the condition of the tarsus seems to me likely to be influenced by the habits of life of the animals .
Yet the more general of these characters are morphologically preferable to slight differences in dental character , or digitigrade or plantigrade progression , or number of digits , or relative size of limbs .
Many of the characters hitherto regarded as ordinal seem to me rather of a nature to distinguish families .
The ilium at first sight has the aspect of a distinctive character of the whole group , and has been regarded as Avian , because it extends both in front of the acetabulum and behind it .
This character is common to birds ; but it is also shared by the Ornithosauria , and to some extent by the Anomodontia .
Hence this condition of the ilium does not necessarily imply that the Dinosauria is a homogeneous group .
Professor Cope pointed out two distinct types of ilium which he regarded as ordinal .
First , there is the ilium which is prolonged forward as a more or less narrow process which is typically seen in Iguanodon and less typically in Scelidosaurus .
Secondly , there is the ilium which has its anterior process developed into a vertical plate .
The bone varies a little in shape in every genus , but I O 2 1(58 Prof. H. G. Seeley .
Classification [ Nov. 24 , see no reason to donbt that these two types of iliac bones are available for purposes of classification . .
The pubes also present two types .
Pirst there are genera m which the bones are directed anteriorly and meet by a median symphysis , and have no posterior extension except for the proximal symphysis with the ischium .
This type is represented by Cetiosaurus , Ornithopsis , Megalosaurus , and many genera figured by Professor Marsh .
The second form of pubis has one limb which is directed backward parallel to the ischium , and another limb directed forward .
It is typically seen in Omosaurus and in Iguanodon .
There are many variations in stoutness and details of form of the bones , but so far as I am aware these two plans comprise all the Dinosaurian genera .
So far as can be ascertained by comparison of figures and specimens , Stegosauria .
Ornithopoda .
Stegosaurus .
Theropoda .
Sauropoda .
Allosaurus .
Morosaurus .
1887 .
] of Animals commonly named Dinosauria .
169 there is no important difference of plan in the pelvis between the animals which have been referred to the order Stegosauria and those referred to the order Ornithopoda ; and similarly , the plan of construction of the pelvis is essentially the same in the animals on which have been founded the orders Sauropoda and Theropoda .
But there is as marked a difference between these two pelvic types as can be found in any part of the animal kingdom .
These resemblances and differences are shown in the figures , which are copied from type genera of Professor Marsh 's four orders .
The evidence concerning the penetration of air cells into the vertebrae has been less fully brought forward .
But in the known genera which have been referred to the Stegosauria , the vertebrae are solid , and the like condition obtains in all the genera of Omithopoda .
The genera in Professor Marsh 's list which are thus , united are Stegosaurus , Diracodon , Omosaurus , Scelidosaurus , Acanthopholis , Crataeomus , Hylaeosaurus , and Polacanthus , with Camptonotus , Laosaurus , Nanosaurus , Hypsilophodon , Iguanodon , Yectisaurus , Hadrosaurus , Agathaumus and Cionodon .
On the other hand , the precaudal vertebrae of Sauropoda are more or less hollow .
This hollowness may amount to perfect excavation which leaves only an external investing film with a longitudinal median septum , or it may include a multitude of internal cells , or it may be limited to a pair of shallow impressed pits on the sides of the centrum .
One of the characters by which Professor Marsh defines the Theropoda is : " vertebrae more or less cavernous .
" The animals included in the group appear to differ greatly in this condition .
I have no evidence of presacral vertebrae of Megalosaurus being chambered , and the chambered condition of the caudal vertebrae rests upon a few specimens such as the types of Poikilopleuron .
Professor Cope mentions that the tissue of the sacral vertebrae of Laelaps is so coarse as to resemble a mass of borings of the Teredo , but still the demonstration of the pneumatic condition has not been made .
Nor is the evidence clearer with regard to Zanclodon .
Professor Marsh figures deep pits in the sides of the dorsal vertebrae of Creosaurus .
In Ceratosaurus , Marsh observes that all the presacral vertebrae are very hollow , and this is also true of the anterior caudals .
The same condition is described in the cervical vertebrae of Labrosaurus , though the external foramina are small , while the Cceluria , if included in the order , would show a vertebral condition more perfectly pneumatic than in ftny of the Sauropoda .
Hence , as the chambered condition of vertebrae is developed in most of the types of the group , it is possible that its absence in genera in which it is unrecorded may be due to the small size of the foramina having failed to indicate its existence , or to the air-cells having been so slightly developed that they did not penetrate the bones , as is the case with penguins among birds .
But 170 Prof. H. G. Seeley .
On Classification [ Nov. 24 , the development of the pneumatic condition is sufficiently general among Sauropoda and Theropoda , to show that these groups are united together by a character which separates them from Stegosauria and Ornithopoda .
It is not possible to form an opinion as to the inference which should be drawn from this character concerning the vital organisation of the animals in which it is found .
For , many of the armourpd genera have the neural arch much extended vertically , in the dorsal region , showing that the lungs were greatly developed .
But since the difference in height between the carapaces of flat-shelled Emydian Chelonians and Tortoises , is chiefly due to differences in the volume of the lungs , it is quite possible that considerable variations in osteological character may occur in the vertebrae , without much difference in the vital organ which produces the change .
On the other hand it must be remembered that among existing animals , the pneumatic skeleton is only found in birds .
Of late years the Dinosaurian skull has become well known .
Mr. J. W. Hulke , F.R.S. , described the brain-case of Iguanodon in 1871 ( ' Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , ' vol. 27 , p. 199 ) , and in 1874 I described the base of a cranium ( ' Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , ' vol , 30 , p. 690 ) which was named Craterosaurus Pottonensis .
In the former the brain-case is closed in front , and the basi-sphenoid has a comparatively slight downward development , while in the latter the base of the skull is much more like that of Hatteria than it is like Iguanodon .
These types include so far as the evidence goes all the forms of skull hitherto discovered .
On the plan of Iguanodon are shaped the skulls of Hypsilophodon and apparently Diclonius , while the skulls of Diplodocus and Ceratosaurus have much in common with Craterosaurus in having the deep pituitary depression , the anterior part of the brain-case open , \amp ; c. The evidence concerning the skull is very imperfectly known , but , so far as it goes , points in the same direction as the other characters in indicating that there are probably only two types in the group .
Any classification must necessarily be provisional until the skulls and skeletons which exist are adequately described .
The considerations adduced appear , however , to show that the Dinosauria has no existence as a natural group of animals , but includes two distinct types of animal structure with technical characters in common , which show their descent from a common ancestry rather than their close affinity .
These two orders of animals may be conveniently named the Ornithischia* and the Saurischia , and defined by the following characters .
Ornithischia In this order the ventral border of the pubic bone is divided , so that one limb is directed backward parallel to the ischium as among birds , * " Ischia " is used by Aristotle for the pelvis .
1887 .
] of Animals commonly named and the other limb is directed forward .
Neither of these limbs of the pubis appears to form a median symphysis .
The ilium is prolonged in front of the aeetabulum as a more or less slender process or bar .
The vertebrae are solid , and the skeleton is not pneumatic .
The basi-cranial structure is distinctive , differing from that of Crocodiles and Lizards .
The body and limbs are frequently covered with scutes which may form a complete shield or be reduced so as to be unrecognisable .
The digits vary from three to five .
Sauri In this order the pubis is directed forward from its symphysis with the ischium , and no posterior limb of the bone is developed .
Both pubis and ischium appear to meet by a median symphysis , so that the arrangement and relations of the bones are Lacertiiian .
The anterior prolongation of the ilium has a vertical expansion .
The vertebrae are more or less pneumatic or cavernous ; and in the dorsal region the neural arch is commonly elevated .
The basi-cranial structure is sub-lacertilian .
No armour has been found .
The digits vary in number from three to five .
I see no ground for associating these two orders in one group , unless that group includes Birds , Crocodiles , Anomodonts , and Orni-thosaurs ; for differences of pelvic structure have been as persistently inherited as any condition of the vertebrate skeleton .
The classification may be summarised in the following table :\#151 ; Cope , 1866 , Huxley , 1870 .
Seeley , 1874 .
Marsh , 1878-84 .
Cope , 1883 .
Seeley , 1887 .
Orders .
Orthopoda ... Coniopoda . .
Symphopoda Families .
C Seel idosauri da \ Iguanodontidae Megalosauridae Compsognatha Order .
Cetiosauria ... Orders .
Stegosauria ... Ornithopoda ... Sauropoda j Theropoda " . . !
Orders .
| Orthopoda Opisthocoela* ... Goniopoda Hallopoda .
Orders .
Ornithischia .
^ Saurischia .
* Sir Richard Owen grouped Cetiosaurus and Streptospondylus in an extinct sub-order of Crocodilia named Opisthocoela in 1859 ; while Megalosaurus and Iguanodon were united to form the Dinosauria in 1811 , This is the earliest and most definite reference of these animals to separate ordinal groups .

