XlV .
Description2 of ran Instrumetat for atertainin{ the spergc. .
G ; razzities of Fluidsv By John Godfrey Schmeisser Com-mutlicated by Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. PRS llead May o6 , 1793 .
ALTHOUGH it be well known to chemists , as well as to experimental philosophers in general , that the ascertailaing the specific : gratities of bodies is a matter of great importance in various chemical experiments , as well as in the analysis and chemical investigation ofX different substances ; yet we find that this precaution is too frequently neglected in the accounts gi^ren of the experiments by the authors themselves , and that the neglect of it has sometimes occasioned the faiTure of these very experiments , when repeated by others .
As this defect has , in a greatlneasure arisen from the want of an accurate and convenient apparatus7 a defect which I have formerly experienced myself , I have for some time past employed my thoughts in inventing acontrivance by which this difficulty might be removed .
I flatter myself that I have now succeeded ; having contrived an instrument , which I have found to answer every purpose for which it was interldedS to my great satisfa.ction v so that the specific grasrities of fluids may be deterluined in an easy and accurate marlner4 Every ingenzous man will easily convince hlmself in what -respect this instrument may differ fsroin or how fir it may be preferable to , thosexwhich have been hitherto made public 5 , and even to that lately invented and resommended by Mr. RAMSDEN .
The whole apparatus is represented in Tab. XIX .
fig. ; it consists of a flat-bottotned glass bottle ( fig. 2 ) itl which is fitted , by grindingS a glass stopper having a thermometer passing through it , ( fig. 3 .
) The bore of this -stopper is conical , ( fig. 4 ) and the thermometer has a glass collarS ( fig. , ) whichzis groundinto the bore of the sto-pper , :so as to be perfectly tight .
There is some difficulty both in making the glass collar , and in fitting it into the stopper .
If the thermometer tube and the collar be not made of the same metal , the collar is very apt to fly off in grinding , for this reason I have somet-mes fixed theFtube in ; to the stopper by m-eans of a thin piece of elastic gum , wourld very tight round the tube .
This gumb by its elasticity , effiectually excludes air and liquids , and is , in the usual temperature of thve atmosphere , not dissolved by any liquor , except vitriolic aether , and not even by that , unless it is particularly prepared for the purpose .
The cavity left at the upper part of the stol ?
per may be filled up with sealing wax , or any other kind of cement ; this will assist in fixing the tube , and as the liquors to be weighed do not come in contact with this part , if the bottle be carefully filled , there is no danger that the wax , or cement ulade use of , hold in any degree aff ; ect the accuracy of the experiments .
I have made , at different times , comparative experiments with this instrument , with a view to the further ascertaining its accuracy , and the different improvementsrmade in itS and can with much confidence assert , that I have never MDGCXCIII .
Z fbund either the least difference in the results , or any thting else -contrary tflomy expectations .
The manner of using this i-nstrument , and preparing it for experiments is as follows .
( 1 .
) A. An accurate ca ; bic inoli which is fastened , by means of a horse-hair , to a hydrestatic balance is to be suspendeEl in a vessel with distilletl water , of the temperature of 6o degrees according to FAHRENSEIT ; when the sum of the weight which the cubic inch thus losesS in the waterS will be equal to the weight of an equal quantity of water displaced by it .
( 2 .
) B. The instrument , free from moisture , is then to be put into the scateb of an accurate balancea and its wteigllt ascertained from which the weight of the common air contained in the bottle must be deducted ; when the remainder will indicate the absolute weight of the instrument .
( 3 .
) C. the bottle of the apparatus is then to be filled with distilled vfatera of the tetnperature of 60 degrees , and the stopper , with the thermometer fitted to the bottle , so that neither the smallest bubble of air may remain in it , nor any of the fluid adhere to the outside of the stopper or bottle ; after which the weight of the water is to be ascertained , and marked upotl the bottle from which , by calculation according to experiment A , the qualltity of water , contained in the bottle in cubic inches measureS may be found .
Having.thus ascertailled the quantity of water of 60 degrees of temperature ^which the bottle contains the bottle may then be filled with any other fluid of the same temperature , and its weight as ' certained , according to experiment C , and conapared Witl that of distilled water .
If ; for example , the bottle be found 44 k.o ' -* - !
_ _j- , , .
: ^t 11 L/ la1 ]an E EI ; F tSo 80 ol 60 = 50 = 4 ' '\ Il ' .
| e-gAf -i t Xf{/ .
3.\ e A.2yZ .
2 .
2X ?
z-70S .
firrm .
M])CCXCE .
a^. .
p. vQ Q t_f.iC L to contain 327 grains of distilled water , and 6S4 Of another fluid , the difference will be as l to 2 ; or 6ts4 divided by 327 , will give 2 for the quotient .
T1le specific gravity then of the fluid thus found , compared with that of distilled water , is properly expressed by the ratio 2,000 : 1,000 ; which latter expression is taken for the standard .
As it is a known fact that fluids exhibit different specific gravities at diSerent temperatures , it would havebeen necessary for me to form a table , exllibiting the specific graxJities of fluids at different temperatures , had I not , in order to avoid this inconvenience , hit upon a method of bringing the fluids , whose specific gravities are to be investigated , to a certairl standard , viz. to 60 degrees , by setting the bottle with the fluid in a glass vessel with cold rater , and adding as much warm water as may be necessary to bring that fluid to this standard aiw do degrees .
As the fluor atid will in some measure dissolve the glass,.it becomes necessary , when that acid is to be weighed , to coat the inside of the bottle , by melting a little bees-wax in the bottle , and turning it , with the thermometer , in such a mansler that the inside , together with the lower part of the thermometer , may become totally covered when cooled ; which coating may easily be removed by means of a Slittle oil of turpentine , or any other essential oilS all of which dissolve wax very readily .
z g

