1889 .
] Wave-length of chief Fluting Manganese Spectrum .
35 Selenium Oxychloride .
It may be useful here to mention a reaction , hitherto undescribed , by which selenium oxychloride can be obtained .
It consists in distilling a mixture of sodium chloride and selenium dioxide .
The reaction is a simple one\#151 ; 2Se02 +2NaCl = Na2Se03 + Se0Cl2 .
I Half the selenium remains as sodium selenite .
III .
" On the Wave-length of the chief Fluting seen in the Spectrum of Manganese .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received April 6 , 1889 .
In a paper communicated to the Royal Society in November , 1887 , I pointed out that in the spectra of certain classes of heavenly bodies there are several lines and flutiugs which occur in the low-temperature spectra of meteorites .
In a subsequent paper* I gave tables showing further that lines occupying nearly the same position had also been recorded in the spectra of auroras .
The coincidences were really surprising , and I therefore suggested that the spectrum of the aurora might in part be due to particles of meteoric dust in the upper parts of our atmosphere .
One of the most constant flutings thus apparently common to the spectra of meteorites , meteor-swarms ( nebulas and stars as well as comets ) , and aurorae is one near wave-length 558 .
I , therefore , suggested that the remnant of this fluting , which is seen in the spectrum of manganese ( whether due to the metal or a compound is unimportant in the present connexion ) , was the origin of the chief line of the aurora spectrum .
I distinctly stated that only small dispersion had been employed of set pui'pose , and that the wave-lengths given had no claim to great accuracy .
I rom a detailed discussion of all the published observations available to me , f the suggestion as to the meteoritic nature of the aurora seemed fully justified , both as regards the general characteristics of the spectra and the positions of the lines and flutings observed , but I was particularly careful to point out that the object of my paper was mainly to direct further inquiries .
Dr. Huggins has communicated an interesting paper to the Royal Society , J in which he gives the results of some very careful measure# ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 43 , p. 320 .
f ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 45 , p. 217 .
X 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 45 , p. 430 .
D 2 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On Wave-length of the [ May 2 , ments of the chief aurora line which he made with considerable dispersion in 1874 , but which have never before been published .
As the position determined by him differs from the approximate wave-length of the manganese fluting , which , so far as I know , had only been previously given by Lecoq de Boisbaudran , * I have deemed it desirable to redetermine the wave-length with increased dispersion .
For this purpose a 4-prism Steinheil spectroscope was employed , the wavelengths being determined by comparison with the solar spectrum and Angstrom 's map .
ill 11 lii ii i Manganese ( Lockyer).1 Sodium ( Angstrom ) .
Aurora ( Huggins ) .
TTi(J .
1.\#151 ; Diagram comparing the manganese fluting with the aurora line , the D lines being also shown for comparison .
The result of the observations with increased dispersion , which were made by my assistant , Mr. Fowler , is shown in the diagram , from which it will be seen that the wave-length of the most refrangible edge of the first fluting which is not perfectly sharp , is about 5576 .
The wave-lengths of all the details of the fluting shown are\#151 ; r5576 Most refrangible edge .
Mn ( 1 ) ... ... } Double maximum .
15604 Another maximum .
Taking the mean of the values , of the aurora line quoted by Dr. Huggins , viz. :\#151 ; Vogel , 1872 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
5571-8 \#177 ; 0-92 Huggins , 1874 , ... ... ... ... ... ... .
5571-0 \#177 ; 0-5 Gyllenskiold 's mean , 1867-1884 . .
5570-0 + 0-88 we get 557076 + 0-76 .
This gives the limiting values as 5571-5 and 5570-0 .
* - ' Spectres Lumineux , ' p. 116 .
1889 .
] chief Fluting seen in the Spectrum .
37 The distances of these from the most refrangible edge of Mn ( 1 ) are respectively 0004*5 and 0006*0 .
If we take the maximum divergence from the Mn fluting , viz. , 0006 , it is equal to the distance between the D lines of sodium , which are also shown in the diagram for purposes of comparison .
The divergence of the other extreme , viz. , 5571*5 , is about two-thirds of the distance between the D lines .
Putting Dr. Huggins 's observations aside , as having been made with considerable dispersion , any observer who is at all acquainted with the small dispersion generally necessarily employed in observations of the aurora , will quite understand that it is almost impossible to differentiate to these small amounts with such dispersion .
The aurora spectrum being usually faint , it is necessary to employ a wide slit , so that the chances of seeing D double are very small .
Dr. Huggins states that in his observations " the reading showed the line to fall about midway between two strong lines in the spectrum of tin , A. 5564 and 5587 respectively .
" The wave-lengths given by Thalen for these lines of tin are 5565 and 5588 , so that a line exactly half-way between them would have a wave-length of very nearly 5575*5 ( whether we take the wave-lengths given by Huggins or by Thalen ) , which almost absolutely corresponds to the Mn fluting .
The value deduced , however , was 5571 , which would place the line not half-way between the tin lines , but less than one-third of the distance between them from the most refrangible one .
If the statement that the line fell midway between the tin lines is to be relied on , it seems probable that there was an accidental shift before the observations of the tin spectrum were made , but the details of the comparison not having been recorded , it is impossible to say with certainty whether there was any such shift or not .
Such a shift would also affect the results of the tellurium comparison referred to by Dr. Huggins to the same extent as that of the tin comparison , since the aurora line was not again brought on the cross-wires .
The value determined by Dr. Huggins from a comparison with the iron lines in the neighbourhood was 5571*5 , which is a little higher than that derived from the tin and tellurium comparisons .
[ Note , May 7th.\#151 ; I have received a note from Dr. Huggins referring to the above paragraph , in which I make a quotation from his paper , and suggest a possible source of error .
I have his permission to publish the following extracts from his letter :\#151 ; " I thought it would be clear that the statement that the l'eading showed the line to fall between the lines of tin ( or 'about midway between ' ) , was nothing more than a rough indication to me what metal to take , and that no importance was attached by me to this quite rough determination of the metal to be chosen .
38 Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On Wave-length of the [ May 2 , " I find , on reference to my note-book , that the words written at the time are * map showed reading between lines of tin .
' It was in expanding this sentence for my paper that the words ' about midway ' came in .
I noticed when the paper was in proof that the expression was not strictly accurate , but I allowed it to pass , as the sentence was obviously merely a rough indication of position for the selection of the metal for comparison .
There is absolutely no ground for the suggestion of any shift , as the position of the aurora line from the direct comparison with tin agrees with the former one ( Ho. I ) .
" From the above , it appears that the statement that the aurora line fell " about midway between " the lines of tin was not strictly accurate , and this consequently led to a misunderstanding ] .
The importance of actually confronting the spectrum of the aurora with that of manganese , and definitely determining the coincidence or non-coincidence of the brightest fluting of manganese with the chief aurora line is therefore obvious , and no opportunity of making the observations should be lost .
In support of the suggestion that the chief aurora line occupied the same place in the spectrum as the brightest fluting of manganese , I quoted the observations of Smyth and Proctor , which placed the line considerably less refrangible than Angstrom 's observation ( 5567 ) .
I attached no special weight to these observations beyond the fact that I knew the observers to be absolutely trustworthy , and there can now be no doubt that they were justified in differing from Angstrom .
Gyllenskiold 's statement of Proctor 's value ( 5595 + 25-0 ) was based upon a curve constructed from the data contained in a small sketch of the spectrum with an empirical scale given in ' Nature ' ( vol. 3 , p. 346 ) , and is , therefore , not so important as Proctor 's own statement : " My own measures give me a wave-length very slightly greater than those of Winlock and Angstrom .
" * Winlock 's value being 557 , it seems pretty certain that the line is decidedly less refrangible than 557 .
Gyllenskiold estimated the probable error of Proctor 's value as equal to one division of the scale ( the distance between C and P being about 96 divisions ) or more than four times the distance between the D lines .
With reference to Krafft 's observations at Bossekop in Alten , Dr. Huggins says : " I have already pointed out that Kraffts measures were not made under circumstances which assured to them a high degree of accuracy , and Krafft 's own words , which I have quoted , disclaim expressly any special attempt on his part to redetermine the position of the principal line with a higher degree of accuracy than the observers who preceded him .
" Dr. Huggins does not appear to * * Nature , ' vol , 3 , p. 384 .
1889 .
] chief Fluting seen in the Spectrum of Manganese .
39 have been sufficiently impressed by the modesty of Krafft 's statement with respect to the accuracy of his observations .
Although his attention was directed mainly to other observations , and spectroscopic observations were of secondary importance , the instruments were specially designed for the work , and it is fair to assume that the measurements were made as carefully as possible .
Krafft 's statement\#151 ; " Leider gestatteten die obligatorischen Beobacht-ungen nicht , den spectroscopischen Untersuchungen die gehdrige Aufmerksamkeit angedeihen zu lassen ... ... ... ... ... .Ich glaubte ausserdem diese Messungen um so mehr auslassen zu konnen , als der Platz der gewohnlichen Nordlichtlinie oft und sehr genau bestimmt ist " \#151 ; does not , I think , necessarily imply that the observations actually made were made carelessly .
Further inquiry is , therefore , I think , necessary before we can finally conclude that the suggestion that the chief line of the aurora is the remnant of the manganese fluting at 558 is inadmissible , as Dr. Huggins states it to be .
That the spectrum of the aurora may be due to the integration of two or more elementary spectra , as first suggested by Yogel in 1871 , is quite in accordance with the meteoric dust theory .
As I stated in my former paper , * " the aurora spectrum can be built up from the lowest temperature spectra of manganese , magnesium , lead , and thallium , and the brightest flutings of carbon .
" And not only this , but when a line of any substance appears alone , it is generally the line which first appears in its spectrum in the laboratory ; when two appear , the second line is also generally the one which is added to the first by the first increase of temperature .
Any departure from this may be ascribed to the incompleteness of the observations .
The differences between the spectra of aurorae which are apparently at nearly equal temperatures are in all probability due to slight variations in the composition of the meteorites concerned .
A low-temperature aurora will give a spectrum generally consisting of the Mn fluting only , while at gradually increasing temperatures various other lines will be added according to the volatilities of the substances which they represent .
\_Note , April 30 th.\#151 ; The existence of a fluting near wave-length 558 in the spectra of all bodies which there is evidence to show are swarms of meteorites , lends an additional interest to the appearance of a line at about that wave-length in the spectrum of the aurora .
It is probable that the spectrum of the aurora has a meteoritic origin , and the 558 fluting therefore might be expected .
It is seen in the aurora , in bright line stars , in new stars , in comets , and in swarms of Group II .
# ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 45 , p. 236 .
Dr. W. Huggins and Mrs. Huggins .
[ May 2 , This commonalty furnishes a strong argument in favour of the ; suggestion that the aurora line is the remnant of the manganese , fluting , for it is practically certain that the fluting seen in the spectra of meteor-swarms is due to manganese .
Further , in the aurora the line which I have ascribed to the manganese fluting is associated with other lines and flutings , and it is also associated with the same lines and flutings in the spectra of meteor-swarms .
These again , it is important to note , are exactly the lines and flutings which are brightest in the spectra of meteorites in the laboratory at the temperature at which the manganese fluting is best visible .
These shortly are the reasons why I suggested that further enquiry was necessary on this point , and the importance of Dr. Huggins 's observation is therefore very great .
] IY .
" The Accurate Determination of Carbonic Acid and Moisture in Air .
" By J. S. Haldane , M.A. , M.B. , and M. S. Pembrey , Pell Exhibitioner of Christ Church , Oxford .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , Oxford .
) Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received April 8 , 1889 .
V. " On the Spectrum , Visible and Photographic , of the Great Nebula in Orion .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Mrs. Huggins .
Received April 11 , 1889 .
[ Plate 1 .
] I have added the name of Mrs. Huggins to the title of the paper , because she has not only assisted generally in the work , but has repeated independently the delicate observations made by eye .
In the year 1882 I had the honour to lay before the Royal Society a note on the photographic spectrum of this nebula , in which I described a new bright line in the ultra-violet , to which I gave a wave-length of about 3730 .
In addition to this new line , the lines of hydrogen , H/ 3 and Hy , which I had discovered by eye in my early observations on the visible spectrum , were to be seen upon the plate .
On account of the faintness of the object the slit had been made rather wide , and for this reason the character of the line and its position , as I stated in the paper , could not be ascertained with the accuracy which I desired .
On the 5th February , 1888 , a photograph of the spectrum of this

