529 The Natural Mechanism for evoking the Chemical Secretion of the Stomach ( Preliminary Communication ) .
By J. S. Edkins and M. Tweedy .
( Communicated by Professor E. H. Starling , F.R.S. Received July 10 , \#151 ; Read November 12 , 1908 .
) The enquiry was directed to answering the following questions:\#151 ; 1 .
What is the comparative value of different food substances in evoking the chemical secretion of the stomach ?
2 .
What channels of absorption are available for the different food substances ?
Experiments in a previous communication to the Society* indicated that the mucous membrane of the pyloric end of the stomach contained the gastric hormone , and was therefore probably a channel of absorption .
No direct proof was at that time able to be adduced .
By a method which we have elsewhere described , we were able , for the purpose of the present experiments , to separate functionally the fundus from the pyloric region of the stomach .
Our results indicate that there is practically no absorption in the fundus end of the stomach .
It was shown in the previous communication that the mucous membrane at this end did not contain the gastric hormone .
At the pyloric end various substances introduced and confined to that region evoke a marked secretion from the fundus mucous membrane .
Acid alone is but a slight stimulus .
Dextrin has a marked effect .
Dextrose and maltose have an effect approximately equal to dextrin .
Witte 's peptone gives a more pronounced result than the carbohydrates .
The meat extract devised by the late Professor Herzen , of Geneva , was found more potent than anything else tried .
These different substances introduced into the fundus end , and confined to that end , evoked no secretion .
Introduced into the duodenum , they also evoke a secretion , Herzen 's extract being most effective .
There was no evidence of any substance'passing into the circulation tending to inhibit the gastric secretion .
It is shown , therefore , that the pyloric end of the stomach and the duodenum are to be regarded as the normal channels whereby such absorption occurs as liberates the gastric hormone .
The fundus end of the stomach is definitely excluded from this function .
* ' Hoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 76 , 1905 .
2 u VOL. LXXX.\#151 ; B

