PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
Section A.\#151 ; Mathematical and Physical Sciences .
A Tantalum Wave-detector , and its Application in Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony .
By L. II .
Walter , M.A. ( Communicated by Dr. J. A. Ewing , C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 23 , \#151 ; Read May 7 , 1908 .
) It has been known for some years that the metal mercury lends itself well to the purpose of constructing a detector of electric oscillations which is \#166 ; capable of spontaneously returning to its initial or sensitive condition , or , in other words , is spontaneously decohering .
The two elements which have hitherto been known to show this property when used in conjunction with mercury are iron ( steel ) and carbon .
Both of these have been employed , singly or together , in the Italian Navy coherer , otherwise known as the Castelli or also the Solari coherer .
The use of carbon is , however , very undesirable for reasons which are well known , while iron is a very unsuitable metal for use in places where tbere^is any considerable amount of moisture in the air ; * at the best it is only a question as to how long rusting can be deferred .
These considerations had , as early as 1902 , led the author to consider means for utilising a noble metal in combination with mercury .
It was at that time found impossible to make use of platinum without the employment of some liquid dielectric\#151 ; in this case pure water\#151 ; interposed between * Fleming , ' Principles of Electric Wave Telegraphy , ' p. 371 .
YOL .
LXXXI.\#151 ; A. B 2 Mr. L. H. Walter .
A Tantalum Wave-detector in [ Apr. 23 , the mercury and the platinum , and then only when the platinum wire was glass-sheathed .
Such an arrangement required , in addition , to be mechanically restored to the sensitive state* The recent trend of work in wireless telegraphy has all been in the direction of the employment\#151 ; at least for general use\#151 ; of telephonic or aural reception , and hence coherers have mostly fallen into disuse , especially as the only reliable and durable ones were those which required mechanical restoration .
The advent of the tantalum lamp , which appeared to promise that this , hitherto unobtainable metal would soon be commercially available , seemed to hold out some possibility of successfully overcoming the previous difficulties in the way of finding a suitable noble metal .
For the fact that tantalum is a noble metal in so far as its chemical behaviour is concerned ; that it is indifferent to atmospheric influences ; that it has great strength and ductility ; and , finally , that it is absolutely indifferent to mercury , seemed to bear out the above view .
The chemical and physical properties of tantalum have been fully dealt with by von Bolton and by von Pirani , and owing to the importance of the metal in the incandescent lamp industry these have become fairly generally known .
One difficulty presented itself at the outset , in that it was impossible at that time ( whatever may be the case at present ) to obtain even the smallest quantity of the metal in any other form than fine wire as is used in the tantalum lamps .
It was , therefore , necessary to try whether under the apparently unfavourable conditions which the use of the metal in such a form imposed any wave-sensitive effect could be observed when used with mercury .
A first experimental detector was made by passing two tantalum wires , , taken from an ordinary tantalum lamp , down two fine glass capillary tubes , and allowing the wires to project about 1/ 20 inch , and their points to just touch the surface of a small pool of mercury .
The sensitiveness of the metal to heating when in the state of fine wire made it impossible to solder joints satisfactorily , and so in later forms the tantalum wire was held in a minute-clip hammered out at the end of a stouter platinum wire .
Trials of this detector gave remarkable and unexpectedly good results .
It was found that both the liquid dielectric and the insulating sheathing could be dispensed with and yet a perfect spontaneously restoring detector be obtained , and one that , while exceedingly sensitive , gave signals which are notable for their loudness and pure tone .
Further , the mercury surface could be made as large as was desirable , with benefit to the sensitiveness , as * Praach\gt ; ' Sammlung elektrotechnischer Vortrage , ' vol. 6 , p. 254 .
Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony .
1908 .
] opposed to the case of the Italian Navy coherer , where it is only by the artificial augmentation of the surface tension of the mercury relatively to its mass ( i.e. , by reducing the diameter of the mercury globule ) that the spontaneous restoration is rendered at all possible .
It was soon found that better results could be obtained with a single tantalum point , provided this was connected to the negative pole of the potentiometer arrangement , the best applied voltage being apparently 0'2 to 0'4 volt .
The general construction and actual size of the detector as now used is shown in section in fig. 1 , the whole arrangement being hermetically sealed in a glass bulb .
Here P is a sealed-in platinum wire , forming one terminal , dipping into a small pool of mercury M , in the glass vessel G ; the other terminal is also a platinum wire Pi , having a clip at its end , holding a short length ( 3/ 16 inch about ) of tantalum wire T of 0*05 mm. diameter .
The sealed-in platinum loops form a handy means of connecting up , with the aid of a lamp-holder of the Swan type .
Before sealing up , mercury is poured into the bulb , through a small side neck N , to such a level that the tantalum point is just immersed , which is best ' ascertained experimentally by the sound in the telephone receiver .
The bulb can then be sealed , having previously been exhausted , , if so desired .
When properly constructed such detectors are permanent , and do not deteriorate apparently , at any rate over a considerable number of months , which is as long as they have been available up to the present .
To guard against accidental breakage of the fine wire point , three such wires are now generally held in the clip , two being turned up out of the way ; either of these can at any time be bent down into the mercury by means of a wire inserted after opening the sealed neck , the bulb being then resealed .
For this reason the bulbs are preferably left unexhausted .
The author has carried one-of these detectors about in his coat pocket and in a hand-bag to France and other places , and after seven months the fine point is absolutely unmoved from its original position , in spite of the hundreds of times the half ounce or so of mercury in the bulb has been jolted about .
This disposes of any idea that the point arrangement is at all fragile .
Detectors of this form have been tested at actual wireless telegraph stations , and it has been found that , while possibly not so sensitive for very weak oscillations ( signals ) as the electrolytic or magnetic detector , for 4 Mr. L. H. Walter .
A Tantalum Wave-detector m [ Apr. 23 , slightly stronger oscillations the sound is several times louder than that obtained with the electrolytic , which is itself much more sensitive than the magnetic detector , and these results were obtained when each ( the tantalum and the electrolytic ) detector had the telephone most suitable for it .
With the same telephones as are supplied with the " Telefunken " apparatus for use with the Schloemilch electrolytic detector , and consequently not so suitable for the tantalum detector , the signals obtained when the latter replaced a new Ferrffi electrolytic detector were several times louder .
( It is notoriously difficult to estimate telephonic sounds quantitatively , but the signals can be described as " good readable " and " loud " in the case of the electrolytic and the tantalum detectors respectively .
) With the second \#166 ; detector made , very loud signals were obtained at a distance of 70 miles over sea , without any attempt at tuning , louder than those obtained with the electrolytic detector with the aid of a step-up oscillation transformer and .careful tuning .
Using one of the less satisfactory of the later models of the tantalum detector , loud commercial signals have also been obtained at a .distance of 450 miles , the transmitter in this case not being one of the high-power stations , which are but poor tests , but an ordinary 2-kilowatt ship installation .
The signals were in this case only slightly less loud when the tantalum detector replaced the electrolytic detector in the circuit , and since the very high resistance telephones used were not suited to the tantalum detector , it is clear that the latter may be regarded as on practically an equal footing with the electrolytic detector , provided the signals are not too weak .
The apparent want of sensitiveness for very weak signals is due to the slight hissing sound which is normally present in all such imperfect ; contacts , with mercury especially , though it is on a reduced scale as compared with the Italian Navy coherer .
An examination of the tantalum detector by the resistance substitution method shows that in the receptive condition these have a fairly low resistance , 1200 to 1800 ohms ( as compared with the filings coherer , 100,000 ohms or so ; and the electrolytic detector , 30,000 to 50,000 ohms ) .
This low resistance should prove beneficial to the tuning in certain cases .
When oscillations are acting , the resistance drops to anything from 250 ohms for strong to 70 ohms , say , for very strong signals .
The great loudness of the signals obtainable with the tantalum detector is due to the large change in the current through the telephones .
For this detector the ratio of the cuilent when oscillations are acting to that in the normal condition ranges from 3.1 to 8.1 , and can amount to 30:1 without reaching the maximum sound obtainable ; the normal current , using 580-ohm telephones , is about 1/ 20 to 1/ 10 milliampere .
Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony .
1908 .
] For the purpose of comparison the same ratio has been measured for a coherer of the Italian Navy type .
This gave a current ratio of 3:1 ( about ) as a maximum , above which it cohered permanently ; it was more usually 3 : 2 , at least in the author 's experiments .
The results with an electrolytic detector were not satisfactory , so that it is preferred to quote Reich 's statement , * that this ratio can easily reach 10:1 .
It will thus be seen that the electrical behaviour of the tantalum detector approximates more to that of the electrolytic detector , as also does the sound .
Although the resistance of the tantalum detector is low , there is little likelihood of the point being damaged , for , unlike the case of a solid metal to-metal contact , a welding of the contacts is excluded , and no case has been observed in which it has been possible , with very powerful oscillations , to prevent the spontaneous return to the decohered state .
In spite of the fact that , as shown , the tantalum detector is a sensitive , useful , and long-lived receiver for wireless telegraphy , it is , in the author 's opinion , not so specially suited for this purpose as for the closely-related branch of signalling\#151 ; wireless telephony .
For this more recent application of electric wave propagation the use of microscopically weak signals\#151 ; such as are at present so favourably regarded in some quarters for the purpose of covering long distances with a minimum amount of power and , probably , of enhancing the possibility of tuning out\#151 ; is obviously out of the question , and here it is that the superiority in loudness of the tantalum detector for moderately strong oscillations comes in .
This is particularly the case^ owing to the fact that the electrolytic detector , which has been most generally used for wireless telephonic purposes up to the present time , cannot claim to be quite satisfactory as regards tone , reproduction of speech being rather harsh and metallic .
It further , as Tissot has lately shown , f very soon , with quite moderately weak oscillations , reaches its maximum of loudness , and beyond this all additional energy is wasted , since it contributes nothing to the loudness .
The harshness has been referred to by de Forest , who now uses for wireless telephony his adaptation of Fleming 's " oscillation valve , " which he has for some reason renamed the " Audion .
" The life of such a detector is , however , very limited , being determined by that of the lamp filament employed ; it is unlikely that this will amount on the average to more than 800 hours .
The form of detector just described , while serving very well for use in fixed stations where a firm support can be obtained , is not so satisfactory when * ' Physikal .
Zeitschr .
, ' vol. 5 , p. 338 , 1904 .
t ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 145 , p. 226 , 1907 .
6 Mr. L. H. Walter .
A Tantalum Wave-detector in [ Apr. 23 , the detector is liable to be subjected to shaking or mechanical shocks during the reception of messages .
Of existing forms of detector there are several which are rather sensitive in this way , and since a detector capable of withstanding rough usage may be useful in certain cases , it was thought desirable to find some method of immobilising the mercury while not interfering unduly with the sensitiveness to electrical stimuli or with the loudness of tone .
Various devices have been tried without success , but one satisfactory solution is arrived at by constructing the detector in the following manner :\#151 ; The tantalum wire is fastened in a platinum clip and the end of the tantalum encased in glass by a special method , necessitated by the impossibility of sealing-in tantalum in the ordinary way as is done with platinum .
The platinum wire is sealed into a minute glass bulb B ( see fig. 2 ) blown on one end of a glass tube ; the other end of the tube is connected to an air pump and the interior exhausted .
The glass tube is next heated , when the vacuum causes it to collapse on to the tantalum wire .
The end of the glass-sheathed wTire can then be ground down so that the tantalum surface is just flush with the glass ( simply breaking off the glass end usually suffices ) .
The mercury is contained in a glass tube G , having a bore of 5/ 32 inch .
A'larger tube would be better , but the sensitiveness to shaking then reappears ; a smaller tube gives a less sensitive and more variable detector .
An ivory plug I , through which a platinum or nickel wire passes and projects , is placed at one end of a length of a few inches of .such glass tube with thick walls .
A few drops of mercury\#151 ; enough to form a pellet ( M ) about 5/ 16 inch long\#151 ; are then put in and a second ivory plug Ii , this one with the sheathed tantalum wire passing through it and projecting about 1/ 20 inch , inserted so that the tantalum glass surface just dips into or under the mercury surface .
The best ( most sensitive ) position is that shown in fig. 2 , with the glass tube vertical and the tantalum electrode at the top , and this gives a detector which may be roughly shaken or tapped during the reception of signals without affecting their sound in any way .
For sealing up , the whole arrangement is encased in an ebonite tube E , and the ends filled in with insulating compound .
The device is then Fig. 2 .
1908 .
] Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony .
permanent , though experience ( time ) is wanted to decide whether it is as inalterable as the first form .
As it seemed somewhat remarkable that such exceedingly good results should be obtainable with tantalum , the first metal tried , a series of experiments was carried out , using mercury in conjunction with other metals hitherto untried by the author , especially those which are most resistant to the action of mercury .
In the case of the metals iron , steel , nickel , and tungsten , and " Eureka " resistance alloy , the metal was obtainable in the form of fine wire , and was used as a point just impinging on the mercury surface in exactly the same way as with the tantalum point .
But with all these metals it was quite impossible to obtain anything but a " perfect " contact , even when the mercury was reduced to a quite small globule and the applied potential difference was reduced to a very low value , 0T volt or less .
The tungsten here was not , perhaps , perfectly metallic , being that taken from an " Osram " and from a tungsten-zirconium lamp .
Trials were also made with the so-called " high-resistance " tantalum wire , i.e. , wire which has been nitrogen-treated after the method described by the General Electric Company of America\#151 ; a matter which has formed the subject of a previous note by the author.* ' In this case , also , no imperfect contact effect was observable , although the resistivity of the material was four times as great as that of the pure .metallic tantalum .
The other metals tried were only available in the massive form , but were used with as fine a point as it was possible to get , dipping into mercury as before .
No effect was obtained with vanadium , molybdenum , cobalt , manganese , tellurium , zirconium , ferro-silicon , ferro-manganese , ferro-nickel , nor with antimony or bismuth : all these metals , except possibly molybdenum , and zirconium , give a " perfect " contact .
Trying pure tantalum with different solid metals , it was found that a sensitive and moderately loud spontaneously restoring detector can be made by placing a tantalum point so that it bears on an iron surface ( best oxidised ) .
An equally sensitive but not quite so loud detector is obtained with a similar arrangement , but using tantalum and tellurium .
Since both these latter metals are unaffected by the atmosphere , such a device might prove of value in the laboratory , for intermittent use for instance .
A very weak effect was observed with cobalt , antimony , manganese , and bismuth in this order of decreasing loudness , while with molybdenum and vanadium there was no effect whatever .
But with all these coherers one has only to compare * ' Electrician , ' vol. 60 , p. 199 , 1907 .
A Tantalum Wav , etc. them with the tantalum point dipping into mercury to realise that they are hopeless as practical competitors .
It will thus be seen that , so far from this property of imperfect contact and spontaneous decoherence with mercury being common to several metals , the behaviour of tantalum is apparently unique , while the effect obtained greatly surpasses that observed with iron .
This latter has hitherto been considered the only possible metal for use in this connection ; but it has been shown above that the property possessed by iron has to be artificially aided before it can even begin to serve the purpose which can now be more effectively carried out by a noble and inalterable metal .
In conclusion , it is interesting to note that , by a suitable choice of material , the primitive simplicity of the single-point contact between two metals can be reverted to and yet practically all the attributes\#151 ; speed , positive decoherence , loudness , long life , and non-exposed parts\#151 ; which are required of the modern detector be retained .

