IV .
" On the Mysteries of Numbers alluded to by Fermat .
" By the Rt. Hon. Sir FREDERICK POLLOCK , Lord Chief Baron , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received March 19 , 1866 .
[ See page 115 .
] April 26 , 1866 .
J. P. GASSIOT , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read : I. c On the Dentition of Rhinoceros leptorhinus ( Owen ) .
" By W. BOYD DAWKINS , M.A. , Oxon .
, F.G.S. Communicated by Prof. J. PUILLIPS , F.R.S. Received March 28 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) The fossil remains of the genus Rhinoceros found in Pleistocene deposits in Great Britain indicate four well-defined species .
Of these the R. tichorhinus , or the common fossil species , ranged throughout France , Germany , and Northern Russia , and , like its congener the Mammoth , was defended from the intense winter cold by a thick clothing of hair and wool .
Its southern limit in the Europeo-Asiatic continent was a line passing through the Pyrenees , the Alps , the northern shore of the Caspian , and the Altai Mountains .
It has not yet been proved to have existed in Europe anterior to the deposit of the Boulder Clay .
The second species , the R. megarhinus of M. de Christol , characterized by its slender limbs and the absence of the " cloison , " has been determined by the author among remains from the brick-earths occupying the lower part of the Thames valley , and from the Preglacial forest-bed of Cromer .
The species ranged from the Norfolk shore southwards through Central France into Italy .
In France and Italy it characterizes the Pliocene deposits , being found in the former country in association with Mastodon brevirostris and Halitherium Serresii , in the latter with IM .
Arvernensis .
From its southern range we may infer that the megarhine species was fitted to inhabit the warm and temperate zones of Europe , just as the tichorhine was peculiarly fitted for the endurance of an Arctic winter .
The third species is the R. etruscus of Dr. Falconer , confined to the forest-bed of the Norfolk shore , and , like the R. megarhinus , found in the Pliocenes of France and Italy ; it ranged across the Pyrenees as far as Malaga , and is the only species known to occur in Spain .
The fourth , the R. leptorhinus of Professor Owen , is the equivalent of the R. hemitcechus of Dr. Falconer .
It is defined as " R. a narines demicloisonnees , " and is probably not the same animal as the R. leptorhinus or " R. d narines non-cloisonnees " of Baron Cuvier , the evidence as to the absence or presence of the cloison in the type of the species being of the most conflicting nature .
In Central France it is identical with R. mesotropus and R. velaunus of M. Aymard , the R. Aymardi of M. Pomel , and the R. leptorhinus ( du Puy ) of M. Gervaise .
Its dentition is characterized by the presence of the third costa in the upper molar series , coupled with the stoutness of the cingulum , the suppression of the anterior combing plate , the smoothness of the enamel , and the extent to which the upper molars overhang the lower , which causes the enamel on the outer side of the latter to be worn obliquely .
The lower molars can be determined by the flattening of the anterior area , coupled with the fine sculpturing of the enamel-surface .
In common with the other fossil British Rhinoceroses , it possessed a molar series of six only on either side , and was bicorn .
It ranged through England , from the Hyaena-den of Kirkdale in Yorkshire in the north , as far south as the plains of Somersetshire , and as far to the West as Pembrokeshire .
It is very generally found in association with Elephas antiquus and Iiippopotamus major , both species which lived in Pliocene times .
The association in Wookey Hole Hyaena-den with Elephas primigenius and R. tichorhinus and other characteristic Postglacial mammals proves that it coexisted with the tichorhine species , to which it probably bore the same geographical relation as the Elk does to the Reindeer in the high northern latitudes .
The sum of the evidence proves that it was coeval with the Mammoth and tichorhine Rhinoceros , and does not characterize deposits of an earlier epoch in the Pleistocene .
It has not as yet been found in Preglacial formations .
The R. leptorhinus is more closely allied to the bicorn Rhinoceros of Sumatra than to any other living species .

