450 Prof. J. C. Ewart .
Natural and [ Mar. 2 ?
the rotation of the plane of polarisation of light in bisulphide of carbon under the action of magnetic force .
Of the results obtained by Gordon and Becquerel , differing by about 9 per cent. , our preliminary measurements tend rather to confirm the former .
III .
" On the Natural and Artificial Fertilisation of Herring Ova .
" By J. Cossar Ewart , M.D. , Regius Professor of Natural History in the University of Edinburgh .
Communicated by The President .
Received March 19 , 1884 .
It is well known that for centuries herring have been in the habit of congregating on inshore banks around the coast of Britain in order to deposit their spawn .
In 1862 the Royal Commission ( of which Professor Huxley was a member ) appointed to report on the trawling for herrings on the coast of Scotland , arrived at the conclusion that herring visit our shores for this purpose twice a year , some shoals arriving during the autumn , while others make their appearance during the winter .
The herring which spawn during the autumn ( and which at another time I shall endeavour to show differ from the winter herring ) chiefly frequent banks on the east coast , while the herring which spawn during winter are most abundant on the west coast .
Of the west coast spawning-grounds , the Ballantrae Bank , which lies off the coast of Ayrshire , is one of the most important and is certainly the most famous .
To this bank herring are known to have resorted for at least 200 years , always bringing in their train numerous codfish , whiting , and sometimes shoals of dogfish , porpoises , and dolphins , and while on the bank they have afforded an abundant harvest to the fishermen of the surrounding districts , and to the flocks of gannets and gulls which people Ailsa Craig .
The herring fishery being one of the most important industries in Scotland ( the autumn fishery engaging nearly half-a-million people , and being worth in good years about 2,500,000Z .
sterling ) , there has been since 1809 a Board specially charged with guarding its interests .
This Board ( formerly known as the Board of Fisheries , but since 1882 as the Fishery Board for Scotland ) in 1862\#151 ; 63 endeavoured , under the direction of Professor Allman ( then a member of the Board ) , to gain some information as to the habits of the herring , and more especially as to the nature of the spawn and the spawning grounds .
Since 1863 little has been done in this country by way of continuing these experiments until last autumn , when the new Fishery Board , recognising the importance of the investigations so ably initiated by Professor Allman , appointed a Committee of its 1884.J Artificial Fertilisation of Herring Ova .
451 members to continue the observations , and extend them so as to embrace as far as possible the consideration of all the food fishes .
But while little has been done in this country to increase by means of continuous observations our information as to the habits and life history of the herring , important results have been obtained by the German Fish Commissioners , and from observations made for the Norwegian and Swedish Governments and the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries .
Nearly all the work hitherto done is summarised in the valuable " Reports of the United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries , " more especially in Parts III and VI , where Widegren , Lyungman , and Sar 's researches are referred to , and a full account of D , H. A. Meyer and Dr. C. Kupffer 's work will be found in the " Jahresbericht d. Commission z. wissenschaftlichen Untersuchung d. deutschen Meere in Kiel f. d. Jahre 1874 , 1875 , 1876 , " and the " Vierter Bericht d. Commission f. d. Jahre 1877 bis 1881 .
" During the autumn two members of the Fishery Board Committee ( Sir James R. Gibson Maitland and myself ) having had H.M.S. " Jackal " ( Lieutenant Prickett , R.N. , commander ) placed at their disposal by the Admiralty , were enabled to examine the more important spawning-beds in the Moray Firth , and to make experiments with the view of determining the best mode of artificially fertilising and hatching herring ova .
A preliminary report of the work done has already been presented to the Board ( " Nature , " 29th November , 1883 ) , and a complete report will be published at an early date .
The Fishery Board , keenly appreciating the importance of the scientific work it had instituted last autumn , on learning that the winter herring fishery had begun off the Ayrshire coast , requested me , on the 3rd March , to join the fishery cruiser , H.M.S. " Jackal , " at Girvan , with the view of inspecting the famous Ballantrae spawning grounds .
On reaching the bank I found that it was chiefly occupied by seine-net fishermen , and that , although the bank is about 8 miles in length and from 1 to 2 miles in breadth , the principal spawning and fishing ground were confined to a comparatively limited portion of that area .
There being , in addition to seine-net , both trammel- and drift-net fishermen , and an abundant supply of mature herring , it was evident that Ballantrae was not only unique as a fishing ground , but that it afforded facilities for prosecuting the inquiries which the Fishery Board had instituted , such as were not likely to be found on any other part of the British coast .
Accordingly arrangements were at once made ( 1 ) for taking temperatures and examining the nature of the bottom , and ( 2 ) for securing and keeping alive a number of mature herring to enable us to study the process of spawning , and to make experiments in artificial cultivation .
At the outset it is only VOL. xxxvi .
2 I 452 Prof. J. C. Ewart , On Natural and [ Mar. 27 , right that I should say that Lieutenant Prickett took an equal share in all the work done , and that the success which followed resulted chiefly from the enthusiastic manner in which the officers and men entered into the spirit of the inquiry , I , The Spawning , Professor Huxley , in his address at Norwich , says , " The first definite and conclusive evidence as to the manner in which herring spawn is attached and becomes developed , that I know of , was obtained by Professor Allman and Dr. McBain in 1862 in the Firth of Forth .
By dredging in localities in which spent herring were observed on the 1st of March , Professor Allman brought up spawn , in abundance at a depth of 14 to 21 fathoms .
It was deposited on the surface of the stones , shingle , and gravel , and on old shells and coarse shell-sand , and even on the shells of small living crabs and other Crustacea adhering tenaciously to whatever it had fallen on."* This spawn was dredged by the fishery cruiser ** Princess Royal , " Captain Macdonald , commander .
There is no record , as far as I know , of herring spawn having been dredged from 1862 until 1872 .
In a valuable paper on the Norwegian Herring Fisheries by A. J. Boeck and A. Feddersen ( 1872 ) , t it is stated that Boeck " raised with the dredge large lumps of roe and gravel intermixed .
" The only other reference to the dredging of herring spawn I am acquainted with is in the " Report of the German Commission , J where it is mentioned that the eggs of the inshore herring were found in the Schlei at a depth of 3 feet , attached to a fresh water pond weed ( JPotamogeton ) .
But although no record has been kept , herring ova must often have been taken up by our fishermen , for during the last three months I have obtained numerous small clusters of herring ova attached to sea-firs ( chiefly Mydrallmannia falcata ) at all stages of development , which had been brought up by the east coast long-line fishermen .
Taking advantage of this knowledge , I prepared a number of small grapnels by tying three large cod-hooks together and fixed them by strong cords about 6 feet in length to a heavy 4-feet iron bar .
" With this rude instrument , an oyster-dredge , and an ordinary naturalist 's dredge , we drifted or steamed slowly across the bank in various directions , and on several occasions succeeded in bringing up fine specimens of herring ova attached to stones , sea-weed , and sea-firs , and portions of trammel-nets .
* " Nature , " April , 1881 , and " Report of the Royal Commission on the Operation of the Acts relating to Trawling for Herrings on the Coasts of Scotland , Edinburgh , 1863 .
t See translation in " United States Report of Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries , " Part III .
J " Jahresbericht der Commission in Riel fur 1874\#151 ; 75 , " 1884 .
] Artificial Fertilisation of Herring Ova .
453 The cod-hook grapnels brought up the trammel-nets ( in which were a few recently caught herring and a large number of fish , chiefly herring , in an advanced stage of decomposition ) , and also .most of the sea-weed ; the oyster-dredge brought up all the stones , coated with spawn .
These stones varied from 6 inches to 1^ inches in length , and from 4 inches to 1 inch in breadth , but in all cases the eggs were attached to a comparatively smooth surface ( which probably was uppermost when the eggs were deposited ) , and they were arranged either in low cones or in comparatively thin layers , one or two eggs deep .
The eggs on the laminaria and other sea-weedfe were either lying separately or in small isolated groups , or embedded amongst the roots , while those on the sea-firs were always attached in small clusters about half an inch in diameter around the stems .
On the trammel-nets the eggs were scattered " in an irregular manner over several square feet .
They were always most abundant near the fish from which they had escaped , and ' tailed ' away sometimes to the right and sometimes to the left , the position having undoubtedly been determined by the direction of the currents at the moment they escaped .
On examining the spawn found on the stones and sea-weed , embryos at various stages of development were at once visible , some of them apparently only three days old , while others had distinct eyes , and from their violent movements and their size seemed almost ready for hatching .
Some of the egg-coated stones were preserved in spirit , others were deposited in the Rothesay Aquarium or retained on board the " Jackal , " while others were conveyed to the University of Edinburgh .
I have not heard what has happened to those left at Rothesay , but those left on the " Jackal " under the care of Lieutenant Prickett , hatched on the 13th , five days after they were dredged ; and those carried off to Edinburgh ( notwithstanding that their small supply of water was neither changed nor aerated for nearly twenty hours ) , hatched on the 15th March , eight days after their removal from the Ballantrae Bank , and to-day ( 17th March ) , the fry are three-eighths of an inch in length , extremely active , and swimming freely about in the water .
All the eggs on the trammel-nets and on the floats in connexion with the nets were dead ; they looked as if they had never been fertilised , while some of those scattered over the smooth surface of the stones attached to the lower margin of the nets contained living embryos .
In addition to the stones , sea-weeds , and trammel-nets , the dredges brought up amongst other things numerous shells of Pecten , Buccinum , and Cardium , small specimens of Chiton , and the eggs of several nudibranchs attached to stones ; several Echinoderms\#151 ; ' 2 i 2 454 Prof. J. 'C .
Ewart .
Natural and [ Mar. 27 Asterias , Astropecten , Ophiura , Echinus , Antedon , and others\#151 ; a few Crustacea\#151 ; -Pagurus , Nephrops , Palsemon , Cancer , and other crahs : a 'few sertularians and actinozoa , chiefly the common Alcyoniuia .
Compared with the spawning-beds examined during the autumn in the Moray Firth , the Ballantrae Bank is peculiar in having as far as our experience went a very limited coating of sea-weed and sertularians .
The fishermen at Ballantrae reported that owing to recent " storms the sea-weed is less abundant now than it was some years ago .
The absence of sea^weed cannot be accounted for by beam-trawling , for so far us I could learn trawlers are careful to avoid the bank lest they destroy their nets .
Perhaps the spawning-bed might be improved if it were possible to increase the amount of sea-weed and sertularians .
By taking soundings over the bank in various directions it was ascertained that it consisted of stones , skells , gravel , and coarse sand , and that the depths varied from 7 to 12 fathoms .
Between the bank and the shore\#151 ; a distance Of about a mile\#151 ; the bottom consists chiefly of sand and broken shells , and the depth , at some points 8 fathoms , diminished sometimes rapidly , sometimes slowly as the shore was approached .
The outer edge of the bank shelved at most points rapidly until a depth of 17 fathoms was reached , and at this depth the bottom consisted of fine soft mud .
While , on the east coast spawning grounds examined during the autumn , the surface temperature in most cases varied from 53 ' F. to 55 ' F. , and the bottom temperature from 52 ' E. to 54 ' F. even at a depth of 40 fathoms , the temperature at the Ballantrae Bank , during the early part of March , varied from 42''8 F. to 43''8 F. at the surface , and from 430,5 to 420,8 F. at the bottom .
The corresponding surface temperature , however , on the east coast during the week ending March 8th was from 2 ' F. to 3 ' F. lower than at Ballantrae , and even the water in Rothesay Aquarium was lower by 1 ' F. than the water at Ballantrae .
As in autumn the temperature is believed to have a great influence in determining the movements of the herring , so it may influence the selection of spawning grounds during the winter .
During the autumn we found in the neighbourhood of all the spawning-beds in the Moray Firth a remarkably rich surface fauna , in fact on fine days the surface literally swarmed with life .
In addition to the millions of medusoids and ctenophora there was an endless number of crustaceans ( some of them at a very early stage of development ) , larval echinoderms and molluscs , ascidian tadpoles , and other minute pelagic forms .
On the other hand , on the Ballantrae Bank , even when the surface was perfectly smooth , we only succeeded in taking a few entomostraca with the surface-net .
There 1884 .
] Artificial Fertilisation of Herring Ova. .
455* is , therefore , as far as has been ascertained , little or no surface-food for the millions of herring-fry which will undoubtedly be soon-hatched on the Ballantrae Bank .
It may be possible to secure specimens of the larval herring , and thus ascertain what they are feeding on .
II .
The Natural Spawning Process .
The presence of a large school of porpoises and dolphins , and the-excitement and rocket-like movements of the gannets , taken together with the calmness of the sea on the afternoon of Friday , the 7th March , led us to expect that there would be a good !
night 's fishing .
We therefore arranged to be on the fishing-grounds early on the Saturday morning , well provided with large tanks for receiving-live herring , and with hatching and carrying-boxes for their spawn .
, Our expectations having been realised , we had at onr disposal on Saturday morning thousands of mature living herring .
Selecting about fifty of the largest and ripest , they were placed in tanks ; on board the " Jackal , " and conveyed as rapidly as possible to the Rothesay Aquarium .
On the way there was time to make a number of experiments , and to cover several plates of glass with artificially fertilised ova , but before referring to these experiments , and the method adopted for artificially impregnating the eggs , I shall describe how the eggs are deposited and fertilised by the herring themselves .
This , so far as I am aware , has not been previously observed .
In the best account we at present possess of the structure and habits of the herring , Professor Huxley says , " When spawning takes place naturally the eggs fall to the bottom and attach themselves .
" " But at this time the assembled fish dart wildly about , and the water becomes cloudy with the shed fluid of the milt .
The eggs thus become fecundated as they fall , and the development of the young within the ova sticking to the bottom commences at once."* Mr. Mitchell , in his book on " The Herring , " referring to the once famous spawning-bed off Dunbar , states that , " About the 30th of August the shoals began to deposit their spawn a short distance from the harbour , and on the 3rd of September the fishermen found that a very large body of herrings remained fixed to the ground in the process of spawning , the ground being of a rocky or stony nature .
" It is not added how the fishermen knew the herring remained fixed to the ground .
It is not likely that a diving-dress was used , but even if it had been , nothing could have been made out , as it is extremely difficult even in a good light to observe what takes place in an aquarium .
While many fishermen believe that herring spawn on hard ground , some believe that they also spawn on a clayey bottom , and while some think that they spawn near the bottom , others affirm * " Nature , " April , 1881 .
See also " Jahresbericht der Commission in Kiel .
" 456 Prof. J. C. Ewart .
On the Natural and [ Mar. 27 that they spawn near the surface , this latter being the favourite theory of Dutch fishermen .
In the preliminary report of last autumn 's work already referred to , we give it as our opinion that " The spawn once ripe they congregate at the bottom , the females depositing their roe on the rocks and -sea-weeds , to which it at once firmly adheres , and the males fertilising it with their milt .
" But it will be observed we did not venture an opinion as to how the spawn was deposited , or how it was fertilised .
Having secured at Ballantrao a number of live henring , we selected the largest and ripest males and females , and placed them in a large wooden tank , into which a number of stones and a quantity of sea-weed had been previously introduced .
After the fish had been about two hours in this tank we examined the stones and sea-weed .
Although a few eggs were attached to both stones and sea-weed , it was quite evident that they had not been deposited in the same way as those found on the stones dredged on the previous day , but the presence of the eggs indicated that we had secured ripe females .
" We were not surprised that only a few isolated eggs were found on the stones , because the fish had been disturbed every few minutes by the water poured into the tank in order to keep them sufficiently cool and provided with an abundant supply of oxygen .
Having arranged a tent-like covering over the tank , so as to inclose the fish in a dark chamber , we tried the effect of throwing instantaneous flashes of light on the surface of the water , but as far as could be observed this produced no impression whatever , they neither sought the light nor avoided it , neither did they seem in any way startled , however suddenly it was directed across their path .
This led us to believe that their natural movements would not be seriously interfered with when introduced into the tanks at the Rothesay Aquarium .
On reaching Rothesay the hatching boxes and live herring were at once transferred from the " Jackal " to the tanks , a tank into which comparatively little light entered being selected for the ripest and most vigorous herring .
In about half an hour after they were introduced I noticed a large full herring moving slowly about the bottom of one of the tanks , and thinking it had suffered during the journey , I introduced a landing-net , in order to remove it , when , much to my Surprise , it darted to the opposite end of the tank .
Having , however , without much difficulty , secured the herring , and having ascertained it was a perfectly ripe female , it was set at once free .
In a few minutes I noticed her moving slowly quite close to the bottom of the tank , with four other fish making circles around her at some distance from the bottom .
Appearing satisfied with some stones which she had been examining , she halted over them , and remained stationary for a few minutes about half an inch from their surface , the tail Artificial Fertilisation of Herring 1884 .
] being in a straight line with the trunk and the pectoral fins near or resting on the bottom .
While in this position , a thin beaded ribbon was seen to escape from the genital aperture and fall in graceful curves , so as to form a slightly conical mass , almost identical with a cluster of ova on one of the stones dredged at Ballantrae .
As the little heap of eggs increased , some falling to the left side one moment , while others fell to the right the next , according to the Currents in the water , the males continued circling round the spawning female at various distances , while the other females in the tank remained apart .
The males kept from 8 to 10 inches above the bottom of the tank and formed circles ranging from 18 inches to 30 inches in diameter .
Some of the males were swimming from right to left , others ' from left to- right , and although there was no darting about , no struggling among themselves ( there is nothing about the structure of the herring that suggests struggling ) , no great excitement , there was a peculiar jerking of the tail as they performed their revolutions* Soon the object of this peculiar movement was sufficiently evident .
Three or four times during each revolution each fish expelled a small white ribbon of milt , which varied from half an inch to three-quarters of an inch in length and was nearly a line in breadth across the centre , - but pointed at both* ends , and somewhat thinner than it was broad .
The delicate ribbons ' slowly fell through the water , sometimes reaching the bottom almost undiminished in size , but in most instances- they had almost completely dispersed before reaching the bottom .
In this* way the whole of the water about the female became of a very faint milky colour , and- practically every drop of it was charged with sperms , , as was afterwards ascertained .
It will thus be seen that there is no attempt whatever on the part of the males to fertilise the eggs as they escape from the female .
While the female is depositing eggs at the bottom the males concern themselves with fertilising the water in the neighbourhood , and it will be observed that the males are careful to guard against the influence of currents .
By forming circles around the femaler and shedding milt on the way , it matters not how the currents are running , they are sure to carry some of the milt towards the eggs\#151 ; the milt , like the eggs , sinking though not adhering to the bottom .
This , then , is the natural process of depositing and fertilising the ova of the herring in comparatively still water .
I watched the whole process repeatedly , and the details were always the same .
When the female had deposited a certain number of eggs at any given spot , she moved forward in a somewhat jerky fashion without rising from the bottom , and as she changed her position the males changed theirs , so that the female was always surrounded by a fine rain of short sperm ribbons .
A specimen of hydrallmannia , sent from Eyemouth , seems to indicate that the female moves about amongst 458 Prof. J. C. Ewart .
On the Natural arid [ Mar. 27 , sea-firs and sea-weeds in exactly the same way as she does among stones .
On each stem of the colony there is a cluster of ova about the size of a small grape , and all the clusters had reached , on arrival the same stage of development as if they had been deposited about the same time and by the same fish .
It is easily understood how such clusters may be formed if the female is almost in contact with the stems , and there is nothing easier than to form such clusters artificially ; the first eggs adhere to the stem , then the others adhere to the eggs already deposited , but being heavy , some of them roll over to the under aspect so as to form the lower half of the sphere , and the result is that partly , it may be owing to the stems moving slightly , there are as many eggs on their under as on their upper surface .
It would , however , be extremely difficult to understand how such clusters or how conical masses could be formed on stones if the eggs fell several fathoms before reaching the bottom .
This method of depositing and fertilising the eggs accounts , I think , for all the eggs , or , at least , for a very large percentage of those found attached to sea-firs , sea-weeds , and stones , containing developing embryos .
III .
Experiments made as to the Deposit and Fertilisation of the Eggs .
When a female was depositing her eggs she was very easily disturbed ; whenever anything was introduced into the tank she at once darted off .
When strong currents were made she at first seemed to apply herself nearer to the bottom to make sure , as it were , that the spawn would get fixed before it could be carried away ; but when the currents were further intensified , she at once changed her position and arrested the escape of the spawn .
A spawning female was held immediately under the surface of the water so as to cause the spawn to escape .
When this was done it escaped in long 1'ibbons consisting of a single row of eggs .
So firmly do the eggs adhere to one another , that in perfectly still water the ribbon was sometimes over a foot in length before it broke .
When it had only about 2 feet of water to travel through it fell in wide loops at the bottom , but when it had over 3 feet to fall the chain broke up into numerous segments which formed an irregular pattern on the bottom .
From experiments made it seems the further the eggs have to fall , and the longer they are in contact with the water before they reach the bottom , they are more widely dispersed , and have all the less adhesive power.* When the eggs are expressed in water moving rapidly in various directions the chains soon break into short segments , and the individual eggs and the small groups are * It may be mentioned that herring eggs if kept moist are still slightly adhesive 24 hours after they are shed .
1884 .
] Artificial Fertilisation of Herring Ova .
459 often carried a considerable distance before they reach the bottom .
It will be evident that if the eggs are shed in strong currents some fathoms from the bottom , the chances of their being fertilised would be considerably diminished .
When the sea is rough the fishermen seldom expect a good " take , " they believe , in fact , that during storms the herring leave the spawning ground , and if the eggs are always deposited as I have described we can easily understand that this might well be the case .
Sometimes about the middle or near the end of the spawning period the- whole school disappears in a single night .
This generally happens during or immediately after a storm , or some other disturbing cause .
It may be accounted for by supposing that the herring being ready to spawn , or having already begun to deposit their eggs , finding the conditions on their usual spawning grounds unfavourably deserted them for banks at some other part of the coast or at some distance seawards .
A number of flat stones and pieces of sea-weed were obtained , and a spawning female held over them at different distances in still water , in water with gentle currents , and in water with strong currents .
In this way groups of eggs were obtained which mimicked in a very striking manner all the arrangements of ' the eggs \#169 ; n the stones and sea-weeds dredged on the Ballantrae Bank .
When gently pressed a beaded ribbon , consisting of a single row of eggs , , always escaped .
When there were no gentle currents it formed conical heaps ; when in a gentle current the ribbon fell in irregular loops , the elements of which arranged themselves so as to form a flattened cone ; but when strong currents acted on it , , the ribbon was broken into fragments , and only a few eggs succeeded in fixing themselves .
When the currents were strong , the males were seen not only to swim nearer the bottom , but to expel longer ribbons of milt which reached the bottom before getting dispersed , , and remained visible sometimes for ten minutes .
On gently expressing a male under the water , it was never possible to expel so fine or so short portions of milt as escaped naturally , but it was extremely easy expelling a ribbon from 18 inches to 3 feet in length , measuring two lines across , and one line in thickness .
Such ribbons fell to the bottom , and remained almost unchanged for nearly two hours ; they then assumed a segmented appearance , and in about 3^ hours had all but disappeared .
Eggs were allowed to escape into a vessel containing fine sand , and into another containing mud .
The eggs after being fertilised underwent the early stages of development , but , either owing to their moving freely about with the sand particles , or owing to their getting coated over with the sand and mud , their further development was arrested .
I have not yet determined finally if the development is arrested when the eggs are detached , but this seems extremely probable .
Prof. J. C. Ewart .
On the Natural and [ Mar. 27 , Amongst questions still to be settled are the following:\#151 ; How long does the female require to shed all her ova , and does it escape in thick ribbons when she is in an exhausted condition ?
When the sphincters are relaxed in a dead fish the spawn escapes in rounded cords about three lines in diameter : How long after death are the eggs- capable of being fertilised ?
Eggs were successfully fertilised during the autumn from a herring taken from the stomach of a cod immediately after it was caught .
How long does the male require to discharge its- milt ?
And how long do the sperms retain their fertilising power ?
I have found that in hours the sperms- cease moving , - and that ribbons- of milt from herring dead 12 hours remain fov several days unchanged , the dead sperms being unable to separate from each other , and diffuse themselves through the water .
When at Ballantrae I noticed that the trammel-nets secured often more males than females .
Is this partly owing to the males swimming somewhat higher than the females , and partly owing to the males taking longer to shed their milt , and hence remaining longer on the spawning-ground ?
It may be found that while the females discharge all their spawn in three or four days the males require nearly double that time to get rid of their milt .
Mr. Wilson , fishery officer at Gpirvan , at my request , - made a number of experiments with ripe herring .
He found that on opening a female herring after as- mo ch spawn as possible had been expressed by the hand about a fourth of the roe remained , while on pressing a ripe male- in the same way about a third of the milt remained , and he observed that it was more difficult to express the milt than the roe .
Mr. Wilson states in answer to other queries : ( 1 ) That the ripest fish are caught in the trammel-nets , while most of the unripe fish are obtained in the drift-nets ; ( 2 ) That at the end of the fishing season at least there are about three males taken for every two females , indicating not necessarily that the males are more abundant than the females , but rather that the males remain longeron the spawning-grounds .
Boeek states more females are caught at the beginning of the fishing season , which agrees with our observations in the Moray Firth .
Mr. Wilson believes that herring prefer quiet water free from strong currents when spawning , and that when the weather is fine , the herring remain long upon the bank , and deposit their spawn leisurely , but when there are strong currents they either hurry the spawning , process , or disappear into deeper water .
IV .
The Artificial Fertilisation and hatching of Serving Ova .
Hitherto , herring ova when wanted for artificial cultivation have usually been obtained in the following way .
The herring was removed from the water and gently pressed along the abdomen so as 1884 .
J Artificial Fertilisation of Herring .
461 to expel the eggs by the genital aperture .
The eggs as they escaped were received on a plate of glass , and then spread over the surface of the glass by means of a feather .
Milt was then added directly from the male , and spread in the same way .
After immersing the glass plate several times in water it was introduced into the hatching or carrying box .
By this method the eggs were often distributed in a very irregular manner over the surface of the glass , and they were liable to be over-milted .
The eggs which first escaped collected in a mass around the genital aperture , and were apt , - unless the herring was retained in a perfectly natural position , to run along the side and get contaminated with loose scales , \amp ; c. , and when they fell on the surface of the glass , or were conveyed to it by the finger or the end of a quill , they formed irregular lumps into which the sperms could not easily penetrate .
I found , after many experiments at Ballantrae , , that the best results were obtained when both the male and female were held under water while the milt and roe escaped , i.e. , when the natural process of spawning ( although not known at the time the experiments were made , ) is followed .
An ordinary wooden tub was obtained and filled with sea-water .
Into this a small quantity of milt was expressed , the male being held completely under water while the milt escaped .
A glass plate was then held about 4 inches beneath the surface of the water and the female herring about 1 inch beneath the surface , and then under gentle pressure the eggs readily escaped in the characteristic narrow beaded ribbon , and by moving the fish over the surface of the glass either a close or an open network could be formed .
At first , where one loop crossed another , the eggs were two or more layers thick , but either owing to the weight of the eggs or the gentle currents set up in the water , before a few minutes had elapsed the eggs usually formed a single and almost continuous layer , the network arrangement having disappeared .
The plate was then allowed to rest for two or three minutes at the bottom of the tub and a few short ribbons of milt were again introduced .
After moving the plate once or twice across the top of the tub in order to wash off any scales that were adhering , it was placed either in a hatching or in a carrying box .
Many thousands of ova treated in this way on the 8th March contain extremely active embryos , which are expected to hatch on the 22nd or 23rd of March .

