The Bakerian Lecture .
Observations on the Quantity of horizontal Refraction ; with a Method of measuring the Dip at Sea .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. F.R.S. Read November 11 , 1802 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1803 , p. 1 .
] In a communication on this subject , published in the volume of the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1800 , Dr. Wollaston accounted for various singular phenomena of horizontal refraction by certain gradual changes in the density of the refracting medium .
Having since perused what M. Monge has published in the Memoires sir l'Egypte , concerning the appearance known to the French by the name of Mirage , where it is ascribed to permanent rarefied strata of air near the surface of the earth ; our author , having reconsidered the subject , and finding that the facts related by the French philosopher accord entirely with his own theory , declares here that he still adheres to his former opinion , and assigns his reasons for not departing from it .
The chief of these reasons is , that the definite reflecting surface , which M. Monge supposes to take place between two strata of air of different density , is by no means consistent with that continued ascent of rarefied air which he himself admits .
; and that the explanation founded on this hypothesis will -not apply to other cases , which may all be satisfactorily accounted for , upon the supposition of a gradual change of density , and successive curvature of the rays of light by refraction .
The subject being of far greater importance than may at first sight appear , since the variations in the dip of the apparent horizon , on which all observations of altitude at sea necessarily depend , must be influenced by this variable refraction , our author has been vigilant in availing himself of every incident that might serve to throw some light on the subject : among these , the first that occurred was an appearance he saw on the river Thames ; when being seated in a boat , with his eye about half a yard above the surface of the water , he perceived the oars of barges at some distance , bending inwards , the point of curvature or angle taking place at a small height above the sensible horizon .
He now recollected that the warmth of the summer having been .
very considerable , the temperature the water had acquired , and still retained when the atmosphere had become cooler , must occasion a rarefaction of the stratum of air above its surface greater than those at higher elevations .
This led him to a series of further observations , which he has collected in a table , from which we learn that , taking in likewise the .
hygrometrical changes in the atmosphere , the depression of the horizon is greater the higher the temperature of the water is above that of the air ; but that this depression is materially diminished by the increasing dryness of the air .
That these refractions ( which in the above-mentioned observations were by no means at all times consistent , ) must be affected by the vicinity of land influencing the temperature of the air , will be easily admitted ; and hence the observations at sea may , it is thought , afford some more accurate conclusions , though the quantity of depression may not be so great .
Thus much however is evident , that the error in nautical observations , arising from a supposition that the horizon is invariably according to the height of the observer , stands greatly in need of correction .
How to apply this correction is the object of the close of this paper .
This consists in measuring , by a back observation , the whole vertical angle between any two opposite points of the horizon , either before or after taking an altitude , and calculating half the excess of this angle above 180 ?
, which will of course be the dip required .
A few cautions are lastly given for correcting some inaccuracies in the instruments , especially the index error in the back observations , which it is owned had been some years since suggested by Mr. Ludlam .

