15 Meridies ~ 27 24 22 28 29 30 16 31 36 32 ~ 35 33 34 17 Meridies fig:2 .
N V B O GT ~F L R P S ~ AC III .
The Dimension of the Solids generated by the Conversion of Hippocrates 's Lunula , and of its Parts about several Axes , with the Surfaces generated by that Conversion , by Ab .
De Moivre , F. R. S. L Et BCA ( Fig. 1 .
) be an Isoscelles Triangle right angled at C. with the Center C , and distance CB , describe the Quadrant BF A ; on B A , as a Diameter , describe a Semicircle BK A ; the Space comprehended between the Quadrantal arc BF A , and the Semicircumference BK A , is called Hippocrates 's Lunula .
If upon BC you take my two Points D , E , and draw the Perpendiculars D H , E M , meeting BA in I &amp; L , and cutting a Portion FGMH of the Lunula ; the Solid generated by the conversion of this Portion about the Axis B C , is equal to a Prism where Base is ILM H , and height the Circumference of a Circle whose Diameter is B C ; and the Solid generated by the Semicircle BK A , is equal to a Prism or Semicylinder , whose base is the Semicircle BK A , and height the Circumference of a Circle whose Diameter is B C. Having bisected BA in R , and BC in P , the Surface generated by the conversion of the Arc HM about the Axis BC , is equal to crx BPxHM~BRxDE ( supposing the ratio of the radius to the Circumference to be as r to c ) and the Surface generated by the Semicircumference BKA is equal to a Rectangle whose base is the sum of that Semicircumference and Diameter B A , and height the Circumference of a Circle whose Diameter is B C. As for the Surface generated by the arc G F , it is well known , that it is equal to a Rectangle whose base is the Circumference of a Circle whose Radius is B C , and height D E ; Therefore the Surface generated by the Conversion of the Portion MHFG is known .
If upon BA ( Fig. 2 .
) you take any two Points I , L , and draw I N , LV perpendicular to it , cutting the Quadrant in O and T , and the Circumference in N and V , the Solid generated by the conversion of the Portion ONUT about theAxis B A , is equal to a Prism whose Base is JOT L , and height the Circumference of a Circle whose Diameter is B A. Having bisected BA in R , and drawn CR meeting the Quadrant in G , the Surface generated by the Conversion of the Arc OT about BA is equal to crx CGx IL CRxOT .
Bisect DE in Y ( Fig. 1 .
) through the Center R draw SQ parallel to B C , meeting the Circumference BKA in S , BK parallel to AC in V , and the Lines D H , EM in N and O ; the Solid generated by the Conversion of the Portion FGMH about the Axis A C , is crx 1/ 3MO3--1/ 3NH~ ~ PCx NOMH ~ CY x DNOE--1/ 3 EG3 ~ 1/ 3 ~ , and the Solid generated by the Segment KBS is crx ~ VK 3~ PC x BUKS .
Therefore the Solid generated by the semicircle BKA about AC is crx PC ~ VQAK ~~x BCQV--1/ 3 AC3 ~ 2/ 3 VK3 ~ PC x BVKS .
which by due reduction will be found equal to the Solid generated by the Conversion of the same Semicircle about the Axis BC .
The Solid generated by the Portion ONVT about the Axis C D , is equal to cr x 1/ 3 LV3 1/ 3 IN3 1/ 3 QT~ ~ 1/ 3 PO3 ~ CS x PQIL .
From the Points M , H , drop the two perpendiculars MZ , HW , upon CA prolonged if need be ; the Surface generated by the Conversion of the Arc HM about the Axis CA is equal to cr x PC x HM RA x WZ , when the point Z is next to C , or cr x PC x H~MRA x WZ when the point W is next to it .
Those that will think it worth their while to bestow some little pains to find the Demonstration of this , may solve the following Problem .
Any two Conic Sections being given , forming a Lunula by their Intersection , and a right line being given by position , about which , as an Axis , this Lunula is imagined to turn , to find the Solids generated by the Conversion of any of its parts , cut off by lines perpendicular to that axis , or parallel to it , or making any given Angle with it , as also the Surfaces made by that Conversion .

