De Respirationis Usu Primario Diatriba , Auth. Malachia Thruston M. D. Cui accedunt Animadversiones a Cl. Viro in eandem conscriptae , vnae cum Responsionibus Authoris .
Londini , apud Joh. Martyn , Reg. Societ .
Typographum ad insigne Campanae , 1670 .
THis Learned Author , a worthy Member of the R. Society , in discoursing upon this no less difficult than important subject , observes this Method ; First , he lays for a ground , that there is and needs must be Motion in the Blood .
Secondly , he declares , what kind of Motion and how various that is , showing also , that all those motions are to be adscribed to the Vital Blood , and to be preserved therein .
Thirdly , he makes it his business to prove ( which is his main design , that those Motions are both continually produced , and maintained by the means of Respiration , premising something about the Nature and Properties of the Air , and the Fabric and Motion of the Pneumatic parts .
This done , he shows the probability of his Hypothesis , as being intelligible , and able to solve innumerable questions , and among them such , as have been esteemed almost insoluble .
And first , he teaches , how Respiration maintains that Progressive Motion , which he also cals the Motion of Rivers ; and then , how it preserves the Motions of Fluidity , and Warmth , by the Airs subduing , comminuting , and dilating the Blood .
Where he digresses to give an Answer to those , that will not allow the Air to have any ingress into the Blood ; as also to explain the cause of Sanguification , adscribing it neither to the Heart nor the Liver , but principally to the Lung s in those that are borne ; but in Faetus 's , to the maternal Blood , and the Vmbilical vessels .
Next , he proceeds to explicate the many Problems of Respiration by the delivered Hypothesis : And chiefly why Respiration is so absolutely necessary to Life , viz because Life principally consilts in the motion of the Blood ; which soon ceaseth , when Respiration is stopped .
Upon which Question thus resolved , depends also the solution of divers others , to be found in this Book .
To all which he adds the reason of the Difference , there is , as to Respiration , between the Borne and Vn-borne ; solving that knotty Hervean Problem , viz. Why a Faetus , being divested of the Secondine , and having once breathed in the open Air , cannot live afterwards without it , but dyes presently ?
Which he imputes to the hindred Motion of the Blood , entertained by Respiration .
But why , after that Respiration hath once begun , the Blood will not , when there is need , return to its former passage through the Foramen Ovale ; we refer to the Author himself for an Answer : as we also do for other considerable Solutions of many other difficulties occurring in this Learned Treatile .

