On the mathematical Theory of Suspension Bridges , with Tables for facilitating their Construction .
By Davies Gilbert , Esq. V.P.R.S. &amp;c. Communicated March 9 , 1826 .
Read March 9 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , Part III .
p. 202 .
] In this paper the author states that his attention was first directed to a consideration of suspension bridges , when the plan for the Menai Bridge was submitted to the Commissioners of Roads and Bridges .
It then appeared to him that the proposed depth of curvature was insufficient for insuring a due degree of strength ; and this opinion was confirmed by some investigations , which are printed in the Quarterly Journal of Science .
In consequence of this , the interval between the road-way and the points of support has been augmented to 50 feet , and its strength now appears sufficient .
The object of this paper is the expansion of the formulae , from which the above-mentioned approximation was derived , into tables adapted to general use ; and the derivation of other formulae and tables for the catenary of equal strength ; a curve not merely of speculative curiosity , but of practical use when bridges of very wide span are to be constructed .
The author first remarks , that as all catenaries , like circles , parabolas , &amp;c. , are similar curves ; tables constructed for one value of the parameter apply to all by simple proportion .
He then enters into an analytical investigation of the equations suited for his purpose , and finally concludes his paper with four tables .
The first consists of six columns , and contains corresponding values of the parameter ; the exponential function or inverse logarithm of the span , divided by the parameter ; the versed sine , the length , the tension at the point of support , and the angle of suspension ; -all computed for a semi-span of 100 parts , for the ordinary catenary , and for a parameter varying from 1000 to 2000 .
Table 2 .
contains the same quantities for a constant parameter 100 , and for all values of the semi-span from 1 to 100 .
Table 3 .
is adapted to the catenary of equal strength , and corresponds to Table 1 .
in the ordinary catenary ; the constant span being 100 , and the parameter varying from 70 to 1000 , with an additional column expressing the weight of the whole curve ; while Table 4 .
exhibits the same things for this curve , arranged in the order of Table 2 .
By the aid of these Tables all the requisite particulars may easily be found in any case proposed in practice .

