491 The Action of the Venom o/ Eehis carinatus .
forming a large part of its apex .
These fibres become more conspicuous in the longer leaves .
In some types the thin-walled ( phloem ) tissue of the bundle is much reduced , or even absent .
The melasmatic tissue also varies considerably in amount .
Some of these longer leaves were probably identical with C. grandis ( Sternb .
) , others with C. ( Schloth .
) .
They are characterised by a more compact structure with smaller and fewer intercellular spaces .
The structure of the smaller leaves probably indicates that they grew in a moist situation , or where the atmosphere was humid .
The larger leaves are more xeromorphic in character .
The results obtained from this work indicate that the Calamites were in all probability truly microphyllous .
The Action of the Venom o/ Echis carinatus .
By Sir Thomas R. Fraser , M.D. , LL. D. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Materia Medica , University of Edinburgh ; and James A. Gunn , M.A. , M.D. , D.Sc .
, Assistant in the Materia Medica Department , University of Edinburgh .
( Received January 27 , \#151 ; Read March 16 , 1911 .
) ( From the Pharmacology Laboratory of the University of Edinburgh .
) ( Abstract .
) The venom used consisted of the liquid venom , which had been rapidly dried immediately after it had been taken from living serpents in India by the process of " milking .
" Its minimum lethal dose , by subcutaneous injection , per kilogramme , was found to be for the frog , 0 009 gramme ; for the rabbit , 0'0009 grm. ; for the guinea-pig , O'OOl grm. ; for the rat , 0'00075 grm. ; for the cat , 0-008 grm. ; for the pigeon , 0-004 grm. ; and , by intramuscular injection , for the pigeon , O'OOl grm. In the case of all these animals , the cardinal symptoms , in order of time and of prominence , are haemorrhages occurring locally and distally , feebleness of the circulation and anaemia , arrest of respiration and loss of reflex excitability , and arrest of the heart in diastole .
No evidence could be obtained , either in cold- or warm-blooded animals , of a direct action of the venom on the brain or spinal cord .
At a time when there occurs definite impairment of the functions of the central nervous system , this can adequately be accounted for by the coincident or 492 The Action of the Venom o/ Echis carinatus .
pre-existent deterioration of the quality of the blood and the feebleness of the circulation .
The venom has , moreover , no effect on the nerves or nerve terminals of voluntary muscle .
The venom has no appreciable effect on skeletal muscle .
The effects on the circulation are produced partly directly and partly indirectly .
From the point of view of lethality , the indirect effects , due to blood changes , are the more important .
When perfused through the frog 's heart , strong solutions bring about an increase in .
the rate , followed by arrest of the heart in systole , and weaker solutions also quicken the heart , but arrest it in diastole .
The venom also renders the heart-wall permeable to the contained blood solution , an effect apparently due to separation of the cardiac muscle fibres .
Solutions of the venom diminish the flow through the frog 's blood-vessels , when perfused through them ; but this effect is due , not to a direct constricting action on the vessels , but to the production , by the hsemorrhagin contained in the venom , of an intense oedema of the tissues of the frog .
In mammals , even very small doses of the venom injected intravenously may rapidly arrest the circulation by the production of .intravascular clotting .
If intravascular clotting be prevented , the venom produces a fall of blood-pressure , due partly to slowing , but mainly to weakening , of the heart 's contractions .
Echis venom has no appreciable effect on the lymph hearts of the frog .
The toxic effects of the venom are due chiefly to the production of alterations in the quality of the blood , of which the following are the most important:\#151 ; Especially with lethal doses , there occurs a great reduction in the number of the red blood corpuscles in the circulating blood , which is due chiefly to hemorrhages , but , in the case of large intravenous doses , is due also to a small amount of hemolysis .
The number of the leucocytes is usually considerably increased for some days after subcutaneous injection .
The hemolytic action of the venom is unimportant in producing its lethal effects , and death frequently occurs without any hemolysis .
The venom has a moderate hemolytic action on the blood vitro .
Positive and negative phases of blood coagulability are produced by Echis venom in a manner similar to that which has already been described in the case of several venoms .
Echis venom exerts little , if any , direct action on the respiratory centre or on the terminations of the phrenic nerves .
Non-lethal doses of the venom produce a rise of temperature ; lethal doses a rise , followed by a fall , of temperature .
Lethal doses cause a diminution in the total quantity of urine secreted , and produce albuminuria , and , frequently , hsematuiia .

