]\gt ; 364 Lord Rayleigh .
Amount of Oil necessary to [ Mar. to the axis , for in that direction the shearing stress is a maximum .
From this it would seem that the resistance overcome at rupture is the resistance of the steel to shear .
Hixperiments were made to see whether the resistance of steel to direct aring bore to its resistance to direct tension the ratio quired by the above theory ; since the greatest shearing stress is equal to one-half the longitudinal stress , we should expect to find the resistance to direct shearing equal to one-half of the resistanoe to direct tension .
A series of experiments were made with the result that the ultimate resistance to direct shearing was within , on the average .
3 per cent. of the half of that to direct tension .
The appearance of the fracture of steel bars is next discussed .
It would appear that when the stress is uniformly distributed in the hood of the ruptured section , the fracturs is at to the axis , the bar having sheared along that plane which is a plane of least resistance to shear .
The tendency to rupture along a plane of shear may be masked by a non-uniform distribution of stress .
Two ates of photographs are added , showing examples of steel bars broken by shearing under stress .
IV .
" " Measurements of the Amount of Oil necessary iu order to check the Motions of Camphor upon Water By LORD RAYLEIGH , Sec. R.S. Received March 10 , 1890 .
The motion upon the surface of water of small camphor scrapings , a phenomenon which had puzzled several geueratious of inquirers , was satisfactorily explained by Van Mensbruggh due to diminished surface-tension of water impregnated with that body .
In order that the rotations may be lively , it is imperative , as was well shown by Mr. Tomlinson , that the utmost cleanliness be observed .
It is a good plan to submit the internal surface of the vessel to a preliminary treatment strong sulphuric acid .
A touch of the finger is usually sufficient to arrest the movements by communicating to the surface of the water a film of grease .
When the surface-tension is thus lowered , the differences due to varying degrees of dissolved camphor are no longer sufficient to produce the It is evident at once that the quantity of grease required is excessively small , so small that under the ordinary conditions of eXperiment it would seem ] to elude our methods of measurement .
In view , however , of the great interest which attaches to the determination of molecular magnitudes , the matter seemed well worthy of investlga .
tion ; and I have found that by suffioiently increasing the water * Memoires Couronnes ' ) of Belgian Academy , vol. $4 , 1869 .
1890 .
] check the Camphor upon Water .
face the quantities of grease required may be brought easily within the scope of a sensitive balance .
In the present experimenIs the only grease tried is olive oil .
It is desirable that the material which ) is to be spread out into so thin a film should be insoluble , involatile , and not readily oxidised , requirements whioh greatly limit the choice .
Passing over some preliminary trials , I will now describe the procedure by which the density of the oil film necessary for the was determined .
The water was contained in a sponge-bath of extra size , and was supplied to a small depth by means of an india- rubber pipe in connexion with the tap .
The diameter of the circular surface thus obtained was 84 cm . .
A short ler1gth of fine platinum wire , conveniently shaped , heId the oil .
After each operation it was cleaned by heating to redness , and counterpoised in the balance .
A small quantity of oil was then communicated , and determined by the difference of readings .
Two releasements of the beam were tried in each condition of the wire , and the deduced weights of oil appeared usually to be accurate to milligram at least .
When all is ready , camphor scrapings are deposited upon the water at three places widely removed from one another , and enter at once into vigorous movement .
At this stage the oiled extremity of the wire is brought cautiously down so as to touch the water .
The oil film advances pidly across the surface , pushing before it any dust or camphor fragments which it may encounter .
The surface of the liquid is then brought into contact with all those parts of the wire upon oil may be present , so as to ensure the thorough removal of the latter .
In two or three cases it was verified by trial that the residual oil was incompetent to stop camphor motions upon a surface including only a few square inches .
manner in which the results are exhibited will be best explained by giving the details of the calculation for a single case , e.g. , the se of December 17 .
milligram of oil was found to be very nearly enough to stop the movements .
The volume of oil in cubic cenlimetres is deduced by dividing by the .
The surface which this volume of oil is spread is square centimetres ; so tlJat the thickness of the oil film , calculated as if its density were the same as in more normal states of aggregation , is 1.63 cm .
, or micro-millimetres .
Other results , obtained as will be seen at considerable intervals of time , are collected in the Table .
For conve- Motions of Camphor Water .
[ Mar. nience of comparison they are arranged , not in order of date , but in order of densities of film .
The sharpest test of quantity of oil appeared to occur when the motions were nearly , but not quite , stopped .
There may be soms little uncertainty as to the procise standard indicated by ' nearly enough and it may have varied slightIy upon diiferent occasions .
But the resuIts are quite distinct , a under the circumstances very accordant .
The thickness of oil required to take the life out of the camphor movements lies between one two millionths of a milli .
metre , and may be estimated with some at micromillimetre .
Preliminary results from a water surface of less area are quite in harmony .
purposes of comparison it will be interesting to note that the A Sample of Oil , somewhat rised by exposure .
thickness of the black parts of soap films was found by Messrs. Reinold and Rucker to be 12 micro-millimetres .
An important question presents itself as to how far these water surfaces may be supposed to have been clean to begin with .
I believe that all ordinary water surfaces are sensibly contaminated ; but ths eement of the resulfs in the Table seems to render it probable that the initial film was not comparable with that purposely contributed .
Indeed , the difficulties of the experiments proved to be less than had been expecbed .
Even a twenty-four hours ' exposure to the air of ivhe a heroid of does not usual render a ater s unfit to exhibit the ements of the oil films here ated is of course below the of the forces of cohcsion ; and thus the tension of oily may be expected to differ that due to a complcte film , and by addition of the tensions of a -oil of an oil-air sulface .
The determlllation of the of oily surfaccs is not { tter .
A cnpillary tube is , as there would be no security tlJat the degl'ee of mination within the tube the same outside .
results mfty be obtained from the rise of liquid betwee1l two parallel plOtes .
Two such plates of glass , at the ners b thin slJect metal , and pressed ethel .
near the centre , dipped the bath .
of this kind the height of vllell cleall was sured by a small quantity of oil , about to stop the ] ) or motions , was communicated to the the , it also over the surface included between and height was depressed to 48 .
Further additi ) of oil , even considertlble qnantity depressed the le to The effect of a small of oleate of soda is much reate ] .
By a the as depressed to 24 , which that the tension of a surface of soapy watel is much less the combined sions of a -oil and of an oil-air Slll.face .
According to Quincke , these laltcr tensions are respectively and by addition ; that of a watel-air Whensoal ) water is substituted for clean , the last number cel.tainly falIs to less half its valu , and therefore much below .
" " the Stability of a Rotating Spheroid of Perfeet \ldquo ; By .
H. BRYAN .
Commlxnicated by Professor .
H. DARWIN , .
Received , 1890 .
1 .
Tn my tion on " " The Waves on a Rotating Liquid pheroid of Finite Ellipticity , \ldquo ; I stated that it did not appear iblo to give a complete investigation of iberia of stability of sphcroid when the liquid it is free from all traces of equilibrium is to be broken by a disturbance of a perfcctly genera ] character .
As the problem in question appeared to be one of erable interest , I have , since writing the above paper , put the question to the test of calculation in the case of the simpler ] ) , and the results thus obtained ]Iave been sucl ] as to allow of extension to a perfectly general disturbance .
* In the country . .
Trans , 1889 , p. 187 .

