Notice on the Iguanodon , a newly discovered Fossil Reptile , from the Sandstone of Tilgate Forest , in Sussex .
By Gideon Mantell , F.L.S. and M. G.S. Fellow of the College of Surgeons , 8sc .
In a Letter to * Davies Gilbert , Esq. M.P. V.P.R.S. &amp; rc .
* ; c. &amp;c. Communicated by D. Gilbert , Esq. Read February,10 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 179 .
] The bones of the fossil herbivorous reptile described in this paper were discovered in the sandstone of Tilgate Forest in Sussex , which is a portion of the iron-sand formation , and forms a chain of hills stretching in a W.N.W. direction from Hastings to Horsham .
In this sandstone the bones and teeth in question are accompanied with those of saurian animals , turtles , birds , fishes , shells , and vegetables , among which may be satisfactorily traced the remains of a gigantic species of Crocodile , of the Megalosaurus , and of the Plesiosaurus .
The teeth of the three last-mentioned animals are readily recognised and identified ; but in the summer of 1822 , others were discovered in the same strata , which , though evidently referrible to some herbivorous reptile , possessed peculiar and striking characters .
Anxious to ascertain the opinions of naturalists respecting these , the author submitted them to the inspection of the most eminent , and among the rest to Baron Cuvier , who , while acknowledging that such teeth were previously unknown to him , agreed in the conclusion of their belonging to some herbivorous reptile of gigantic size , and recommended every research to be made for more connected portions of the skeleton .
Confirmed in his opinion by these remarks , the author renewed his researches with increased assiduity ; and though no connected portions of the skeleton have hitherto rewarded his pains , some of the specimens were discovered in so perfect a state as to allow of a comparison with the teeth of recent lacertwe in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons ; and the result of this comparison was , that in an Iguana there deposited , teeth were discovered possessing the form and structure of the fossil specimens .
Drawings both of the recent and fossil teeth accompany this paper , and were exhibited to the Society .
They show a striking correspondence in the serrated form of the edges of the teeth , in the ridges on their vertical surfaces , and particularly in the manner in which the new teeth are formed in lateral cavities at the base of the fangs of the old ones .
From the nature of the fossils with which these teeth are associated , the author concludes the Iguanodon to have been , if amphibious yet not marine , but an inhabitant of rivers and fresh-water lakes .
Judging from the proportions of the recent iguana , he concludes that some of the fossil teeth figured in his paper must have belonged to an individual upwards of 60 feet long .
The author then considers the vertebrae , which differ materially from those of the recent iguana , crocodile , &amp;c. , and resemble rather those of the fossil crocodiles of Havre and Honfleur , being depressed at both extremities ; but , as among recent lacertwe there are examples of the same structure in a higher degree , and the fossils in question are clearly of the saurian type , he does not regard the discrepancy as sufficiently important to invalidate the conclusions attempted to be established in this paper .

