]\gt ; 228 .
John .
On the JfeJractive Index of [ June 20 , identify the inertia of tter with the electric inertia of the electrons , if only we may assume their nuclei to be small enough , or sufficiently numerous .
And the faot that these nuclei have free periods of elastic adial vration in the fluid aether , not subject to damping by radiation , reminds us that a pulsalory theory of gravitation has been developed by Hicks and Bjerknes .
There is no nised fundamental interaction of electric and radiative phenomena with gravitation , so for present purposes we are not bound to produce a precise explanation of gravitation at all .
The scope of this remark is rest1icted to merely showing that a rotational aether is not incompetent to include such an action among its properties . .
" " On the Refi.active Index of Valer at Temperatureft between and By Sir JOHN oNROY , Bart. , F.R.S. , Fellow Bedford Lecturer of Balliol College , and Millard Lecturer of Trimty College , Oxford .
Received May 16 , In 1856 Jamin ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. xliii , p. 1191 ) published an account of observations he had made on the refractive index of vater at temperatures between .
He used an interfel.ence method , and found that as the water cooled the index increased .
' ' La masse totale de l'eau qui d'abord etait a 12 degres , ' se refroidissant continuellement , arl'iva bientot a 4 degres , c'est-a-dire , an point ou les variations de l'indice devraient changer dc signe , et ou le deplacement des franges devrait etre inverse .
Mais rien de pareil ne se montra , et en continuant le refroidissement jusqu'a zero , on continua d'observer une augmentation de l'indice .
Il n'y a donc pas de maximum dans la valeur du coefficient de refraction quand il en a un dans la densite In another experiment temperature of ) column of water tbrough which one of the beams of light passed was kept at whilst that of the other was gradually raised to ; he found by the displacement of the bands that the index decreased eadily .
He did not , apparently , ] any numerical values for the illdices , bat states that they are given by the empirical formula Two years later Gladstone and Dale ' Phil. Trans 1858 , p. 887 ) an account of observations that they had made " " on influence of temperature on the refraction of light ; \ldquo ; they used a hollow glass prism , and determined the angles of minimum deviation for water , and several other liquids , various temperatures .
They say , " " our determinations were performed repeatedly and most carefully on water near the freezing point ; they confirm the observations Water at ) ] .
22 of rench physicist ' ' " " ) same time that the able 1sion of the density at llot without its inflnence on the mount of change of active index betweell and ilst t between and is only \ldquo ; They table the } of the index to five places , for , and eight tempcraturcs betwcen and pub- account of observati ons he had made of the refractive index of ) various atures ; he also used a hollow prism and giveH the vtdues to { ive places , for lithium , sodium , and thallium light from to .
He states , " " Brechungsindex des Wassel .
S nimmt stetig ab von bis R. , ohn dem Dichtigkeitsmaxlmum gend einc von dem Aendernngsgesetze zeio en , mithin ( lie digkeit dcs Lichtes stetig zu Lorenz ( ' Wied .
Ann vol. 11 [ 1880 ] , p. 70 ) made tions by terferenc method , on refractive indcx of watcl between the nperatures of and and Dufet ( ' JOLTr .
de Physique ' ( 2 ) , vol. 4 [ 1885 ] , p. 389 ) determined tho indcx of water at temperatures bove 1 by the minimum deviation method and an interfel'ence , and also calculated from the results obtained by othet ' the of of index with change of tenlI ) ur .
Wied .
repeated 's determinations for temperatures above , using a actometer , but did not make any observations at lowel tempel.atureH .
More recently still , B. Walter has published ( ' Wied .
vol. xlvi [ 1892 ] , p. 422 ) a short account of some tioIJs of the refractive index of water to five places between and for the line , , apparently , with great care by the minimnm deviamethod .
the refractive index of water increases the decrease of temI ) until the eozlng point is reached , to be proved , but as few ilcterminations of the values of the refractive indices of water its point of ximum density have been published , I havo ventnred , as the mattcr is one of considerable theoretical to bring ) efore tho Society an account of some determinations I have ntly mftdc ed was the ordinary , the determination of rlgle of tion for a of definite -length .
a hollow ] prism containing at a nowll The iometer used was made by Iessrs .
hton nimlllS , it -inch circlc divided into , and is re by means of micrometers , direct ] to 10 and by cstimntion to single 230 Sir John Conroy .
On the Refractive Index of [ June 20 , The prism was made } ) ; the value of its , as by six independent measurements , The prism was surrounded by a water-jacket , through which:t stream of brine , cooled by a freezing mixture , could be passed .
in the water-jacket allowed the light which had ugh collimater to reach the prjsm , and the refracted beam t ) the telescope .
The temperature was ascertained by means of thelmometer with its bulb immersed in the water contained in the prism .
The prism was filled with distilled water which had been recently boiled and allowed to cool under reduced pressure .
ations w made excIusively with sodium light ; it had been originally intended to make observations with lights different refrangibilities , but it was found that , owing to brilliancy constancy of the sodium light , it was not only far easier to make ser ations with it , but that these observations certainly be more accurate than those made with li ght of other frangibilibies .
The prism , not actual contacl with the water-jacket , cooled slowly , about four or five hours were usually necessary to reducc its temperature from about to a little ) the freezing point .
Owing to the being made at temperatures different from that of the room , and to the temperature of the prism continually , though slowly , altering , it was found impossible to make the determinations by reversing the , and then taking half the angle between two positions of the telescope as the of minimum deviation .
Sevel.al series of observations were therefore made wibh the prism in both positions of minimum deviation , and the differences between these readings and those made when the axes of the collimator and telescope were in the same straight line , gave the deviations .
Seven sets of observations were made , and the results are contained in Table I ; which gives the deviations for both positions the , and the corresponding x.efractive indices for the various temperatures .
The of deviation differ so little from each other , that srror in the ation of the refracting angle of the prism would not make any diiference in the relative values of the indices ; it would , of course , affect their absoIute values .
The probable error calculated by the ordinary formula from the measurements made of the angle of the prism ( see above ) is A difference of in the value of the refracting to two units in the sixth place in the refracGive index ; the I at etneen 0 in the refractive dices due to the llleasulcment of the angle of the is cforo less ) A difference of in the of the allgle of lninimuln cleviatioJl The temperatures at which the observations were made not being identical for the two positions of the prism , it was thought that a graphical method , though , from its nature , somewhat " " arbitrary would give a more truthful result than any arithmetical process of t , aking the meaIlS .
The results were therefore plotted on paper divided into squares of 1 mm. , of temperature being represented by 5 mm. on the axis of abscissae , of refractive index by 4 mm. on of the ordinates ; and a curve drawn in the way .
to the scale on which the results were plotted , a good deal of " " judgment\ldquo ; was necessary in drawing the cur .
It was therefore thought desirable also to plot the results on a smaller scale , so far as the ordinates were concerned ; this was done , one unit in the fifth place being represented by 2 mm. , and another curve drawn .
The values of the index for different temperatures , as given by the two curves were compared and were found to agree satisfactorily ; and it therefore seemed probable that the curves were really fair represeutations of the observations .
In the first column of Table II the values of the refractive indices , elative to air , for each degree as deduced from the curves , are given to five places ; in the second the values as found by Walter , and in the third and fourth those for sodium light , given by ] adstone and Dale , and Ruhlmann .
Table II.\mdash ; Refractive Indices of Watel. .
The values show that the refractive index of water , as was first announced by Jamin , increases continuously up to the freezing point , the rate of increase , however , seems to change about , the temperature of maximum density , as was pointed out by Gladstone Dale .
1895 .
] Wa at 234 Messrs. Rodger and Watson .
Magnetic [ June 20 , Curve ( 1 ) gives the values of the refractive indices at temperatures between and , as determined by the experiments , of which account has been given in this paper ; and curve ( 2 ) the densities an of water at the same temperatures as given in Lupton 's ' Numerical Tables ' ( p. 28 ) .
These curves show clearly that no formula representin the val'lation of the refractive index of water with the temperature , as a function of ffie density onIy , can be a complete expression of the facts of the case .
V. " " On the ISIagnetic Rotation of the Plane of Polarisation of in Liqulds .
Part I. Carbon Bisulphide and Water By J. .
RODGER , Assoc. R.C. , Demonstrator of hemistry , and W. TSON , B.Sc. , Assoc. B.C.S. .
Demonstrator of Physics , Royal College of Science , London .
Communicated by Professor A. W. RUCKER , F.B.S. Received June 1 , ( Abstract .
) The aim of this investigation is the determination in absolute measure of the netic rotation of liquids at different temperatures , the effect of the chemical nature of the liquid on this property , and its correlation with other physical properties .
The present communication contains a description of the apParatuf , and method of experiment , and the results obtained with the standard liquids , carbon bisulphide and water , for sodium light , in a magnetic field of constant intensity , and at different temperatures between and the ordinary boiling point .
The magnetic field was by means of a helix consisting of two separate coils , either of which , if desired , could be used separately .
During the process of winding , the dimensions of each layer were carefully determined , and every precaution was taken to ensure good ins ulation .
The liquid under tion was contained in a glass tube closed by very thin glass plates .
This was surrounded by a brass jacket , which passed through the coils .
Observations could be made at different temperatures , and the temperature could be kept constant while making a set of by causing water , or the vapour of liquids boiling under different pressures , to circuIate through the jacket .
Special pains were taken to obtain monochromatic light , with the result that in the case of carbon , where the double rotation amoullted to , there was no trace of coloration .

