1904 .
] The Succession of Changes Radio-active Bodies .
493 Bakekian Lecture.\#151 ; " The Succession of Changes in Radio-active Bodies .
" By E. Rutherford , F.R.S. , Macdonald Professor of Physics , McGill University , Montreal .
Lecture delivered May 19 , 1904 .
( Abstract , Received May 27 , 1904 .
) It has been shown by Rutherford and Soddy that the radio-activity of the radio-elements is always accompanied by the production of a series of new substances , possessing some distinctive physical and chemical properties .
These new substances are not produced simultaneously , but arise in consequence of a succession of changes originating in the radio-elements .
The radio-activity of these products is not permanent , but diminishes , in most cases according to an exponential law , with the time .
Each product has a distinctive rate of decay of activity , which has not , so far , been altered by any physical or chemical agency .
The law of decay has been explained on the supposition that the product undergoes change according to the same law as a mono-molecular change in chemistry .
The change occurs in consequence of the expulsion of an a or particle , or both , and the activity of a product is thus a measure of its rate of change .
While the products like the emanations , and UrX , lose their activity according to an exponential law , the matter emanation X , which gives rise to the phenomena of excited activity , does not lose its activity according to a simple law .
The experiments of Miss Brooks and the author , and of Curie and Danne , have shown that the decay of the excited activity of radium is very complicated , and depends upon the time of exposure to the exciting cause , viz. , the emanation .
The author has shown that the excited activity produced in a body by a short exposure in the presence of the thorium emanation increases at first for a few hours , passes through a maximum value , and then decays with the time according to an exponential law .
In the paper the curves of decay of excited activity of radium and thorium are given for both short and long exposures to the emanations , and it is shown that the law of change of activity with time can be completely explained on the theory that emanation X of thorium and radium is complex and undergoes a series of successive changes .
The mathematical theory of successive changes is given in detail , and a comparison is made of the theoretical and experimental curves obtained for the variation with time of the excited activity .
In the case of thorium , two changes are found to occur in emanation X. The first change is a " rayless " one , i.e. , the transformation is not accompanied by the appearance of a , fi , or y rays .
The second change gives rise to all three kinds of rays .
VOL. LXXIII .
2 M Prof. E. Rutherford .
[ May 27 , The decay of activity of emanation X of radium depends greatly on ' whether the a or j8 rays are used as a means of measurements .
The curves obtained by the ( 3 rays are always identical with those obtained by the y rays , showing that the f3 and y rays always occur together and in the same proportion .
The complicated decay curves obtained for the different types of rays , and for different times of exposure , can be completely explained on the supposition that there are three rapid successive changes in the matter deposited by the emanation , viz.:\#151 ; ( 1 ) A rapid change , giving rise only to a rays , in which half the matter is transformed in about 3 minutes .
( 2 ) A " rayless " change in which half the matter is transformed in 21 minutes .
( 3 ) A change giving rise to a , ( 3 and y rays together , in which half the matter is transformed in 28 minutes.* A similar ray less change is shown to occur in the " emanating substance " of Giesel .
The occurrence of a rayless change in the three radio-active bodies is of considerable interest .
Since the change is not accompanied by rays , it can only be detected by its effect in the change or changes which follow .
The matter of the rayless change is transformed according to the same law as the other changes .
The rayless change may be supposed to consist either of a rearrangement of the components of the atom or a disintegration of the atom , in which the products of the disintegration are not set in sufficiently rapid motion to ionise the gas or to affect a photographic plate .
The significance of the rayless changes is discussed , and the possibility is pointed out that similar rayless changes may occur in ordinary matter ; for the changes taking place in the radio-active bodies would probably not have been detected if a part of the atom had not been expelled with great velocity .
The radiations from the different active products have been examined and it is shown that the ( 3 and y rays appear only in the last rapid change of each of the radio-elements .
The other changes are accompanied by the emission of a particles alone .
Evidence is given that the last rapid change in uranium , radium , and thorium , which gives rise to ( 3 and y rays , is far more violent and explosive in character than the preceding changes .
There is some evidence for supposing that , in addition to the expelled a an ( 3 particles , more than one substance is produced as a result of the disintegration .
* A statement of the nature of the three changes occurring in emanation X of radium was first given in a paper by Rutherford and Barnes ( ' Phil. Mag. , .
, 1904 ) .
A brief account of the theory from which the results were deduced ws been given in my book " Radioactivity " ( Cambridge University Press ) .
Later Curie and Danne ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' March 14 , 1904 ) arrived , m a similar way , a , the same conclusions .
1904 .
] The Succession of Changes Radio-active Bodies .
495 After the three rapid changes have taken place in emanation X of radium , there remains another product , which loses its activity extremely slowly .
Mme Curie showed that a body , which had been exposed for some time in the presence of the radium emanation , always manifested a residual activity which did not appreciably diminish in the course of 6 months .
A similar result has been obtained by Giesel .
Some experiments are described , in which the matter of slow decay , deposited on the walls of a glass tube containing the emanation , was dissolved in acid .
The active matter was found to emit both a and / 3 rays , and the latter were present in unusually large proportion .
The activity measured by the f3 rays diminished in the course of 3 months , while the activity measured by the a rays was unaltered .
The active matter was complex , for a part which gave out only a , rays was removed by placing a bismuth plate in the solution .
The radio-active matter deposited on the bismuth is closely allied in chemical and radio-active properties to the active constituent contained in the radio-tellurium of Marckwald .
The evidence , as a whole , is strongly in support of the view that the active substance present in radio-tellurium is a disintegration product of the radium atom .
Since the radium emanation is known to exist in the atmosphere , the active matter of slow dissipation produced from the emanation must be deposited on the surface of all bodies exposed to the open air .
The radio-activity observed in ordinary materials is thus probably , in part , due to a thin surface film of radio-active matter deposited from the atmosphere .
A review is given of methods of calculation of the magnitude of the changes occurring in the radio-elements .
It is shown that the amount of energy liberated in each radio-active change , which is accompanied by the emission of a particles , is about 100,000 times as great as the energy liberated by the union of hydrogen and oxygen to form an equal weight of water .
This energy is , for the most part , carried off in the form of kinetic energy by the a particles .
A description is given of some experiments to see if the a rays carried a positive charge of electricity , with the view of experimentally determining the number of a particles projected from one gramme of radium per second .
Not the slightest evidence was obtained that the a rays carried a charge at all , although it should readily have been detected .
Since there is no doubt that the a rays are deflected m magnetic and electric fields as if they carried a positive charge , it seems probable that the a particles must in some way gain a positive charge after their expulsion from the atom .
Since on the disintegration theory , the average life of a given quantity of radium cannot be more than a few thousand years , it is necessary to suppose that radium is being continuously produced in the earth .
The simplest hypothesis to make is that radium is a disintegration Prof. S. Arrhenius .
[ June 2 , product of the slowly changing elements uranium , thorium , or actinium present in pitchblende .
It was arranged that Mr. Soddy should examine whether radium is produced from uranium , but the results so far obtained have been negative .
I have taken solutions of thorium nitrate and the " emanating substance " of Giesel ( probably identical with the actinium of Debierne ) freed from radium by chemical treatment , and placed them in closed vessels .
The amount of radium present is experimentally determined by drawing off the emanation at regular intervals into an electroscope .
A sufficient interval of time has not yet elapsed to settle with certainty whether radium is being produced or not , but the indications so far obtained are of a promising character .
" On the Electric Equilibrium of the Sun .
" By Svante Arrhenius .
Communicated by Sir William Huggins , Pres. R.S. Received and read June 2 , 1904 .
In recent years many attempts have been made to apply the pressure of radiation , that is a consequence of the theories of Maxwell and Bartoli , to the explanation of cosmical phenomena .
Especially the enigma of the nature of comets ' tails has been elucidated from this new point of view .
In a memoir presented to the Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1899 , I pointed out that several electric and magnetic phenomena , especially auroras and magnetic storms , might also be connected with the pressure of radiation .
C. T. R. Wilson found that the negative ions condense vapours more easily than do positive ions .
Without doubt the gases in the atmosphere of the sun are practically ionised by the ultra-violet radiation .
Therefore we have to suppose , that among the little drops formed by condensation in the sun 's atmosphere far more are negatively charged than are positively charged .
As these drops are driven away by the pressure of radiation they charge with negative electricity the atmospheres of celestial bodies , e.g. , the earth , which they meet , till the charge is so great that discharges occur , and cathode rays are formed , which carry the charge back to the universe .
A calculation of the speed , with which these particles move through space , will not be without interest .
Suppose first , for simplicity , that the pressure of radiation is double that of the weight of the particles in the neighbourhood of the sun .
It is not difficult to calculate , that in this case the time , necessary for the particle 's passage from the surface of the sun to the earth , amounts to 68 hours .
The specific weight is supposed to be that of water .
Now , after Schwarzschild 's calculations , a perfectly reflecting drop

