40 Mr. J. A. Fleming on Magneto-electric [ Mar. 8 , plying the method so as to obtain in a compact form and at a small cost a dispersive power exceeding that of any spectroscope on the old plan , and free from the defects inherent in a complicated instrument .
In conclusion , I may allude to an application of the remarkable property of the half-prism which may perhaps prove of practical use .
From what precedes it will be clear that the half-prism , as far as its magnifying-power is concerned , is equivalent to a combination of an object-glass and cylindrical eyepiece , the peculiarity being that it magnifies the angle between two pencils of parallel rays without affecting the parallelism of the rays in each pencil .
The half-prisms which have so far been considered are constructed so as to give great dispersion , and the sun is seen through them as if through a telescope with an object-glass formed of a convex flint lens and a concave crown .
But it is obvious that an achromatic prism may be formed on the same principle as the achromatic object-glass , giving cylindrical magnifying-power without dispersion .
If two such prisms be crossed at right angles , -one behind the other , the magnifying-power will be the same in both directions , and the combination will act as an achromatic telescope with the advantage of great compactness , since the eye can be applied close to the second prism .
Whether , however , this advantage would compensate for the greater quantity of glass required and for the loss of light is a matter for practical consideration ; and I therefore defer the discussion of the achromatic half-prism till I have satisfied myself that it has some practical utility , even though it may never replace the refracting telescope for general use .
Royal Observatory , Greenwich , 1877 , Jan. 17 .
March 8 , 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On Magneto-electric Induction in Liquids and Gases.\#151 ; Part I. Production of Induced Currents in Electrolytes .
" By J. A. Fleming , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received February 6 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains an account of an experimental inquiry into the production of induced currents in liquids by magneto-electric induction .
Faraday examined one such case of induction , in which a conducting 1877.1 Induction in Liquids and Gases .
41 liquid was used as a secondary circuit .
He coiled round the armature of an electromagnet an india-rubber tube filled with dilute sulphuric acid , and found , on making and breaking the primary circuit , the induced currents generated in it , as in the case of metallic conductors ; but he could not obtain any effect when brine , sulphuric acid , or other solutions were rotated in basins over a magnet , or enclosed in tubes and passed between the poles .
He failed also to detect any magneto-electric current in water flowing across the earth 's lines of magnetic force ( viz. in the river Thames ) .
Since the reason for these negative results is not at once obvious , it seemed desirable to repeat and extend them to other cases , so that , if possible , the analogy of electrolytic with solid conductors might , in respect to magneto-electric induction , be completed .
In addition , the subject involves the interesting question of the magneto-electric phenomena accompanying the flow of ocean-currents and other large masses of water .
Three cases of induction in liquids flowing in a magnetic field or traversed by lines of magnetic force have been examined .
T. Production of induced current in a liquid stream flowing uniformly in a constant magnetic field.\#151 ; When a stream of conducting fluid flows vertically down between the poles of a magnet a transverse current is produced in a direction at right angles to the lines of force and line of flow .
This was obtained in the following way :\#151 ; A glass tube , about 200 centims. long and 2 centims. wide , had platinum plates 15 millims. wide placed along its inside and at opposite sides , with their lengths parallel to the axis of the tube .
Platinum wires welded to these plates were sealed through the glass .
The plates were curved to lie closely against the sides of the tube .
This tube was placed vertically between the poles of a large electromagnet , the line joining the platinum plates being at right angles to the line of the poles .
To the upper end of the tube was attached another , leading to a reservoir of dilute sulphuric acid placed high above the floor ; to the lower end a tube leading to a receptacle on the floor .
The platinum plates were then connected with a distant galvanometer .
When the magnet was not excited , no flowing of the liquid had any effect on the galvanometer ; but when it was excited , at the moment the flow began the galvanometer showed a deflection of 10 ' to 15 ' .
Since the only part of the galvanometer circuit in motion is the liquid , this deflection was due to the magneto-electric current generated in it by its movement .
It was noticed that the plates were 'polarized by the currents so created .
As a consequence of this , the deflection of the needle soon fell to zero ; and on the liquid flow being stopped , a polarization current in the opposite direction was obtained .
This proved that in experiments on induction in liquids , in order to obtain any constant current , non-polarizable electrodes must be used .
42 On Magneto-electric Induction in Liquids and Gases .
[ Mar. 8 , 2 .
Production of induced current in a mass of liquid rotating over a magnetic pole.\#151 ; In this case radial currents should be produced .
They were obtained as follows :\#151 ; Flat porous cells were placed round the circumference of a large basin , and in the centre a cylindrical one .
These were filled with a solution of cupric sulphate , and contained copper plates .
The basin was filled with dilute sulphuric acid .
The centre copper plate was connected with one pole of the galvanometer , and the circumferential ones with the other .
The whole was placed over the pole of the electromagnet .
On exciting the magnet and rotating the dilute acid , a constant current was obtained , flowing from centre to circumference or the reverse according to the direction of rotation .
With platinum electrodes the effect cannot be obtained , but with non-polarizable electrodes it is easily produced .
Mercury was likewise tried with still better results .
3 .
Production of induced current in a liquid at rest in a variable magnetic field.\#151 ; If a flexible tube filled with conducting liquid is wound round an electromagnet , and into the ends electrodes placed so as to include a galvanometer in the circuit , then induced currents are obtained whenever the strength of the magnet varies .
This is the case examined by Faraday .
His experiment was repeated by MM .
Logeman and Van Breda ( Phil. Mag. [ IV .
] vol. viii .
p. 465 ) , who noticed that the electrodes were left polarized after the induced current had passed .
These experiments were repeated with more powerful apparatus , using a soft iron wire core within the inducing helix instead of solid iron , and employing a condenser in the primary circuit .
Very strong induced currents were obtained , and correspondingly great polarization of the electrodes placed in the ends of the coil of acid .
It was hoped that the currents might produce visible inductive electrolysis , but even this improved arrangement did not yield that result .
Other saline solutions were tried with similar results .
_ Lastly , the phenomenon observed by Arago , of the retardation in the vibrations of a magnetic needle oscillated near the surface of liquids , is examined .
Evidence is brought forward to show that this is not , as in the case of solid plates , due to induced currents created in the liquid\#151 ; ( 1 ) because the retardation is , cmteris paribus , not proportional to the conductivity of the liquid but dependent on its volatility ; ( 2 ) because it takes place equally when a light brass needle , oscillated by torsion , is substituted for the magnet , provided the needle is light and the period of oscillation not very small .
Thus a magnetic needle which required 4 min. 20 sec. to suffer a decrement of 25 ' in the semi-arc of vibration when in air , required over dilute sulphuric acid 3 min. 30 sec. , over ether 2 min. 25 sec. A brass needle of the same dimensions exhibited similar effects .
In conclusion the magneto-electric induction taking place in moving masses of water on the earth 's surface under the influence of terrestrial magnetism is briefly discussed .
1877 .
] Mr. C. S. Tomes on Vascular Dentine , 43 Before the introduction of the absolute system of electro-magnetic measure , there was no means of estimating the electromotive force so brought into play by the flow of a river or ocean stream , and the magnitude of the effect was perhaps overestimated .
A Table is given , showing the electromotive force in volts produced in two or three cases .
Difference of potential between two sides in volte .
Gulf-stream at lat. 30 ' N. , long .
60 ' W ... ... 8*6 Equatorial current , lat. 10 ' N. , long .
40 ' W. . .
10*0 Dover and Calais tidal current ... ... ... ... ... 3'0 Thames at Waterloo Bridge ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
*016 This electromotive force without doubt generates a current transverse to the direction of the flow ; but since the surrounding still water or the river bed or channel is not a non-conductor , any attempt practically to detect it by plates placed on either side of the stream is not likely to succeed , since the current through the galvanometer is only a derived portion of the current in the stream , A comparison of a chart of ocean-currents with one of the isogonic lines does not seem to show any distortion of the lines of equal variation where they cut across .
If , now , electric currents of any great magnitude were generated in ocean-currents , such would undoubtedly be the case .
Though Faraday 's failure to detect any magneto-electric current in the Thames may have been partly due to his employment of polarizable electrodes , still there is evidence enough to show that these currents , though certainly existing and capable of being produced on a laboratory scale , cannot be regarded as contributing in any sensible degree towards affecting the form and distribution of the isogonic lines .
Those who have looked to this as a possible partial cause of the irregularity observed have been led , no doubt , by the dimensions of the streams to exaggerate the magneto-electric induction caused by their flow .
II .
" On the Structure and Development of Vascular Dentine .
" By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. Communicated by John Tomes , F.R.S. Received February 6 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) The nomenclature and classification of the varieties of dentine have hitherto been based solely upon the appearances discoverable in dried teeth ; in the present communication the author seeks to amend and place upon a more satisfactory basis the grouping of these several kinds of dentine , by bringing to bear upon their arrangement observations upon the nature of the contents of those large tubes which give to the tissues their name of " vascular " dentine , and , more especially , observations upon the methods by which they are developed .

