]\gt ; PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
SBCTION B.\mdash ; BIOL SCIBNCBS .
On Opsonins in Relaiion to Red Blood-cells .
By J. O. WAKELIN BARRATT , M.D. , D.Sc .
Lond. ( Communieated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received August ll , \mdash ; Read November 22 , 1906 .
) ( From the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine .
) In a previous communication*it was pointed out that opsonins , whose existence in relation to ) acteria is generally recognised , are also produced by injecting foreign red blood-cells into the peritoneal cavity .
The latter variety of opsonin , which is thermostable , not being destroyed by exposure to C. for 30 minutes , is taken up by red blood-cells of the kind used injection .
Such red blood-cells , after being thus " " sensibilised\ldquo ; by opsonin , arc ingested by leucocytes .
Since it appeared obvious that the occurrence of phagocytosis might , under suitable conditions of experiment , be made use of in order to discover if a serum were capable of sensibilising red blood-cells , is , if it contained opsonin corresponding to the red blood-cells employed , it was determined to ascertain if , proceeding along the line of investigation thus suggested , a for the estimation of red blood-cell opsonins could be devised .
It was further decided to study the nature of the action of such opsonins upon red blood-cells .
of Opsonin .
In attempting to make use of phagocytosis for detecting the presence of opsonin in serum a serious difficulty is at the outset encountered owing to * J. O. W. Barratt , " " The Phagocytosis of Red Blood-cells , \ldquo ; ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 76 , p. 524 .
VOL. LXXIX.\mdash ; B. Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
[ Aug. 11 , the occurrence of spontaneous phagocytosis .
When the red blood-cells of the rabbit , for example , are injected into the guinea-pig , opsonin for such , red blood-cells develops in the latter 's serum , which ( after destruction of complement ( alexin ) by heating for 20 to 30 minutes at C. * ) may now be used to sensibilise the red blood-cells of the rabbit .
If the sensibilised red bloodcells are added to the leucocytes of the guninea-pig , contained in the ( heated ) normal serum of the guinea-pig , extremely active phagocytosis of the red blood-cells at once takes place .
If , however , sensibilisation is omitted , phagocytosis is still observed , though in considerably diminished degree .
Attempts to overcome the disturbing effect of this residual or\ldquo ; spontaneous\ldquo ; phagocytosis have not as yet met with a sufficient degree of success to enable estimations of opsonin to be carried out in such cases .
There is , however , another class of cases in which spontaneous phagocytosis does not occur .
Leucocytes contained in the serum natural to them do not ingest the red blood-cells with which they are normally associated .
If , for instance , the red blood-cells of the guinea-pig are injected into the abdominal cavity of the rabbit and the serum of the latter is employed for sensibilisation , the leucocytes of the guinea-pig , contained in ( inactivaGed ) guinea-pig serum are now seen to ingest such sensibilised red cells , though if sensibilisation is omitted no phagocytosis whatever occurs .
A serum of this kind was prepared from a rabbit , which will henceforth be referred to as A. The serum was used forthe series of experiments recorded in the Rabbit , 2300 rammes .
Intraperitoneal injections were made as follows : On the 1st day the red blood-cells of .
of guinea-pig 's blood .
On the 11th day the red blood-cells of .
of ' blood .
On the 21st day the red blood-cells of .
of blood .
On the 118th day the rabbit was bled to death .
The serum obtained was inactivated by heating to C. for 30 minutes .
An attempt was first made to ascertain if opsonin could be removed from the serum of Rabbit A by the washed red blood-cells of the added in varying amounts and acting upou the serum ( diluted and undiluted ) for periods of time from five minutes to five hours ( Table I ) .
this time the mixture of serum and red cells was continually shaken , eithel ' rwise h of the red blood-cells occurs .
All the with sellsibilised red blood-cells , given in the tables , were accompanied with control expel.illlents on normal red cells .
In these , as in numerouH other control experiments uot to , the results as regards phagocytosis invariably ative .
1906 .
] On Opsonins in to Red Blood-cells .
by hand or in a motor-driven shaker .
The mixture was then centrifugalised and the supernatant liquid pipetted off ( great care being taken to ensure the complete removal of the red blood-cells ) .
Tho washed red blood-cells of .
of guinea-pig 's blood were next added to 1 .
of the deopsinated serum , and the whole itated for two hours at C. The sensibilised red cells , after being washed in per cent. sodium chloride solution , were added in excess to the leucocytes of the guinea-pig in inactivated guinea-pig serum and kept on a warm stage for two hours .
The leucocytes were then examined under the microscope and the percentage containing red blood-cells noted , 2000 to 40001eucocytes being enumerated .
The percentages thus obtained are only approximately correct , will be readily understood reference to Table III , but by making a number of tests under conditions as nearly as possible identical in respect of every detail , fairly concordant results are obtained .
The results , given in Table I , showed that it was possible to remove opsonin from the serum employed , provided that a sufficient number of red cells were used .
After the red blood-cells of one or more parts of guineapig 's blood had acted upon two parts of the serum of Babbit , the serum had completely lost its power of seusibilising red cells ; in other words , it no longer contained opsonin in recognisable amount .
If the red blood-cells of one part of guinea-pig 's blood were shaken with four parts of serum , sufficient sonin was usually left in the serum to sensibilise red cells ; this was especially the case when the period for deopsination was short .
In Table I no indication of the degree to which opsonin is removed is afforded beyond the fact that a period of five minutes is too short to effect complete removal at C. The enquiry now presents itself , how much serum is required to sensibilise the red blood-cells of a given volume of guinea-pig 's blood ?
To this point the series of observations recorded in Table II was undertaken .
The degree of phagocytosis obtained , apart from the degree to which sensibilisatiou of the red cells has been carried , depends chiefly upon the uniformity and the closelJess of distribution .
of leucocytes and red cells .
To secure the maximum degree of phagocytosis the cells must be distributed and the leucocytes must not be separated by more than a few cell breadths from the erythrocytes , for leucocytes do not appear to recognise the presence of the latter until their processes come in contact them .
Difficulty was occasionally experienced owing to the occurreJlce of some degree of agglutination of the red cells after treatment with the rabbit 's sernm : separation could usually be effected by shaking , provided the proportion of serum employed was not too great above compare Table .
The condition of the leucocytes affects the degree to which the red cells are taken up .
If a sufficiently extended series of tests are made the condition of the leucocytes tends to become the same in experiment .
Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
Table I.\mdash ; Deopsination of Serum of abbit A , by means of the Red Blood-cells the Guinea-pig .
Temperature of Experiment , to C. The washed red blood.cells of guinea-pig 's blood ( B ) were added to serum of rabbit ( S ) in the proportions given .
Thus , llleans that eight parts of guinea-pig 's blood and one part of the serum of the rabbit were taken .
In order to test phagocytosis , the red blood-cells of .
of guinea-pig 's blood were sensibilised .
of the deopslnated serum , dilutod or undiluted , and then added to leucocytes obtained from the gumea-pig .
The sign - means that no phagocytosis occurred ; that 0 per oent .
to per cent. of leucocytes contained red blood-cells ; er cent. to 16 per cent. to 1 per cent. contained red cells : that the maximum degree of phagocytosis was obtained ( 2 per cent. to 5 per cent. , in one instance per cent. , in another per cent In these experiments the red blood-cells of gradually amounts of guinea pig 's blood were added to a given volume of the serum of Rabbit and the whole shaken for two hours at C. , the red cells then washed and tested as to their power of exciting phagocytosis .
will be seen that so long as the ratio of the fornler to the latter exceeds 3 : 1 the red blood-cells are quite insufficiently sensibilised and fail to excite ' tion is 1 : 1 , ocytosis becomes marked , no further increase in the eucocytes haken uells ahours aafter when added tphagocytosis oound thich 2tothe 1eucocytes oWhen t obtained , uite eunder tmsta .
Percentages of , 12 and were occasionally 1906 .
] On Opsonins in to Red Blood-cells .
amount of serum employed causes auy nisable amentation of the of phagocytosis obtainable .
From this it may be concluded that , as far as phagocytosis is concerned , this ratio represents complete sensibilisation .
This does not , , represent the maximum amount of opsonin which can be taken up , for it appears , from Table I , thab the red blood-cells of one part of blood in some of the experiments removed opsonin to such an extent from four parts of serum that the serum was no longer capable of red blood-cells , though in other experiments sufficient opsonin for this purpose was still left .
An explanation of the difference in the amount of opsonin taken up in the two cases is probably to be found in the circumstances that phagocytosis is essentially a surface phenomenon depending upon the degree to which the outer part of the red blood-cell is sensibilised , and no advantage arises from the opsonin upon the cell in its whole thickness .
A striking fact becomes evident from Table II , namely that dilution of the serum does not arrest the process of sensibilisation of red blood-cells .
When the red cells of one part of blood are mixed with one part ( or more ) of serum , sensibilisation occurs and ocytosis results equally whether the serum is undiluted or is mixed with as much as 500 parts of -per-cent .
sodium chloride solution .
ratio noted above as the minimum relative amount of serum necessary for the production of marked phagocytosis enables an idea to be formed of the delicacy of the test of deopsination elnployed in Table I. If the red blood-cells of .
of the blood of the guinea-pig are mixed with 1 .
of deopsinated serum , and are found to become so far sensibilised that marked ocytosis is obtained , it follows that the serum contains , after deopsination , at least per cent. of the of opsonin originally present .
If , however , phagocytosis is found , on repeated testing , to be always feeble or to be absent , it follows that less than this percentage is present .
By the red blood-cells of varying amounts of gtlinea-pig 's blood to 1 .
of the serum , and the point at which sensibilisation becomes incomplete and phagocytosis feeble or absent\mdash ; and , as is illustrated in Table II .
this point is indicated with a fair amount of clearness if a sufficient number of experiments are made , the same technique being closely followed in each\mdash ; it appeared be feasible to ascertain approximately the degree to which opsonin had been removed from the serunl in question .
Influenced by this line of thought , the series of determinations in Table III , which forms a continuation of Experiments 8 to 21 in Table I , Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
[ Au Table IT.\mdash ; Experiments to Determine the Degree to which Blood-cells must be Rabbit , and the Poed Blood-cells *Phagocytosis } as tested } sensibilising ashed red blood-cells of guinea-pig 's blood ) the serum the rabbit 's serum cent. were taken Aftcr evere ashedof tocytes ingested rthat 0odiumper contained instance 9 per cent. , in another per ceIlt carried out .
tions of the of Rabbit , diluted with an equal volume of cent. sodiu chloride were mixed with the oride solution , were mixed with the vashed red cells of guinea-pig in the proportion of 4 : 1 , for periods of varylng from nutes to 3 ] and 20 ninutes , and subsequently tested for the presence ) opsonin , in previous experiments ( A to I ) , Table III ) .
A secoltd ( , and ( I to M ) series of the same cter also carl.ied out , the hCrum b to 1 iu 8 and 1 respectively .
The tests of ) made roups , with ishing a of balnc sizontally in Table III ) , to 18 , sometimes with serun1 deopsinated for diffel eriods of time inlents are marked with an asterisk 1906 .
] On Opsonins in Relation to Red Blood-cells .
sensibilised in order to excite Phagocytosis .
The Serum employed was that of were those of the Guinea-pig .
of Rabbit A in the portions g. Thus , means that 32 parts of guinea-pig 's blood and 1 part of chloride solution and added to the leucocytes .
The sign - means that no red cells ; and that the lnaximtlm degree of phagocytosis to 6 per cent. , in one and are arranged vertically in Table III ) as in xperiments 1 to In spite of the variations exhibited by individual experiments fairly definite are obtainable for most of the sera .
Thus in the experiments SerunI A a sharp diminution of power is seen when the ratio is less than 1/ 25 , whence it is concluded that parts of after deopsination contain only as much opsonin as one part originally did , that is to say , the opsonin has been reduced to 4 per cent. of the lnonnt resent at the beginning of the experiment ; with and a distinct but less lnarkedchallge in the sensibilising power of the sera is seen , reduction of opsonin to 2 per cent. and 1 per cent. respectively of tltC amount originally present ; the opsonin in is obviously reduced to Icss than Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
[ Aug. 11 , 1906 .
] On Opsonins in to Red Blood-cells .
1 per cent. of its original value , but beyond this its titre cannot be further defined from the experiments made ; and similarly with the remaining sera .
The experiments in Table III show that a very rapid removal of opsonin takes place during the first five minutes , and that subsequently the removal of opsonin becomes ably slower , some of the opsonin originally present still remaining in Sera and even at the end of several hours .
As would be expected , the removal rate is seen to be more rapid with the more concentrated serum ( to D ) than in the more dilute serum .
The experiments in Table III show that , when spontaneous phagocytosis is avoided , the estimation of red blood-cell opsonin may be carried out .
Sera from different sources may be compared as to their opsonic content by determining the minimum amount of serum requiled to sensibilise a given bulk of red cells so as to produce the maximum of phagocytosis .
An alternative method is to determine the minimal bulk of red blood-cells required to deopsinate unit of volume of the sera .
The Interaction of Red Blood-cell and It is not possible from the data above given to arrive at a definite conclusion as to the nature of the process when red blood-cells are sensibilised by opsonin .
It has been already pointed out that even considerable dilution of tlJe serum of abbit A did not abolish sensibilisation so long as the ratio was preserved .
This circumstance is readily explicable on the assumption that a chemical reaction takes place , but it is also equally well explicable on the assumption that a physical process of adsorption or selective solubility occurs .
The relation between concentration and adsorl)tion has been determined by Ostwald* to be where is the concentration of the adsorbed substance , that of the substance in solution , and and are constants .
By suitably the values of and , the value of could be left practically unchanged when was reduced to 1/ 500 of its initial value So far as the behaviour of opsonins in respect of dilution has up to the present been ated , ' Lehrbuch .
allg .
Chemie , ' 1891 , vol. 1 , Auflage , p. 1096 .
example , if and , in which case since ) all ) of the opso1lin originally present the liquid would pass to the red blood-cells , If were less than 1 , the proportion taken up by the red cells would be still Unfortunately the estimation of small percentages of opsouin requires amounts of serum than can be obtained from rabbits .
Dr. J. O. W. Barratt .
[ Aug 1906 .
] On Opsonins in Relation to Red Blood-cells .
the results obtained do not permit a conception of the nature of the interaction of red cell and opsonin to be formed .
In a stoichiometric reaction which proceeds slowly , not only is it possible to establish the molecular character of the reaction by means of determinations of the reaction rate , ut the degree of the reaction may also be ascertained .
The general formulae for stoichiometrical reactions are for monomolecular reactions , and for multimolecular reactions , where is the concentration at time that at time is unity for bimolecular reactions , and is a constant .
The truth of these formulae has been established for homogeneous systems .
Whether they are applicable to heterogeneous systems as in the interaction of toxin and antitoxin has been called in question .
In the case of the heterogeneous system formed by red -cell opsonin , the data above given enable the applicability of the formulae in question to be tested empirically .
In Table , from the data furnished by Table III which are repeated , the values of are calculated : 1 ) as for a monomolecular reaction ; ( 2 ) for ; and ( 3 ) for The values of for the first and third formulae exhibit wido variations ; the values for show a fair correspondence , the average of all the experiments being , while the highest and lowest values are and respectively .
Thus the result is obtained that in the heterogeneous system under consideration a relation is exhibited similar to that observed in a bimolecular stoichiometric reaction occurring in a homogeneous system .
It has been shown that\mdash ; 1 .
By employing phagocytosis as a test of presence of red blood-cell opsonin , and avoiding spontaneous phagocytosis by suitable conditions of experiment , quantitative determinations of the opsonic content of serun1 be made .
2 .
In the experiments made , the interaction of red blood-cell proceeded at a rate to that exhibited in a stoichiometric reaction .
In conclusion , I must express my indebtedness to ths I received from Dr. Allan Macfadyen , in whose laboratory this was conducted , and from Mr. J. A. Craw and Professor Donnan .
The concentrations of red blood-cell and of opsollin are arded as equivalent , sillce opsonin is present in the proportion necessary to lead to of the red blood-cells .

