XVI .
" Spectroscopic Observations of the Sun."-No .
II .
By J. NORMAN LOCKYER , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received November 19 , 1868 .
The reading of this Paper was commenced .
November 26 , 1868 .
Lieut.-General SABINE , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice was given from the Chair of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the list of Officers and Council proposed for election was read as follows : President.-Lieut.-General Edward Sabine , R.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.-William Allen Mliller , M.D. , LL. D. f William Sharpey , M.D. , LL. D. Secretaries .
George Gabriel Stokes , Esq. , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Foreign Secretary.-Prof .
William Hallows Miller , M.A. , LL. D. Other Members of the Council.-Frederick Augustus Abel , Esq. ; .Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie , Bart. , M.A. ; William Benjamin Carpenter , M.D. ; J. Lockhart Clarke , Esq. ; Frederick Currey , Esq. , M.A. ; Warren De La Rue , Esq. , Ph. D. ; Sir William Fergusson , Bart. ; William Henry Flower , Esq. ; Capt. Douglas Galton , C.B. ; John Peter Gassiot , Esq. ; John Hawkslaw , Esq. ; John Marshall , Esq. ; Joseph Prestwich , Esq. ; George Henry Richards , Capt. R.N. ; Archibald Smith , Esq. , M.A. ; Lieut.-Col. Alexander Strange .
Lieut.-Col. Cameron , Mr. Crofton , Mr. Griess , and the Rev. Dr. Tristram were admitted into the Society .
The following communications were read:128 I. " Account of Explorations by the Swedish Arctic Expedition at the close of the Season 1868 , in a Letter to the President .
" By Professor A. NORDENSK6ILD .
Communicated by the President .
Received November 20 , 1868 .
Troms6 , October 23 , 1868 .
SIR , -The second geographical part of our expedition anchored a few days ago in the harbour of Tromso , after a difficult and adventurous autumn cruise of a month in the polar basin north of 80 ?
lat. ; and as these regions were never before visited in such a late season , I hope that our observations will be of interest for the arctic men of Great Britain , as contributing to settle some points of the polar question recently much debated .
According to the plan adopted for the Swedish Expedition , five of its naturalists returned , in the middle of September , to Tromso with one of the small ships that brought coal to our depot at Amsterdam Island , and the same day the 'Sofia , ' with the remaining part of the expedition ( consisting of v. Otter , Berggren , Nystr6m , Palander , Lemstrim , and myself ) , steamed northward for Seven Islands , where it was our intention to wait for a favourable occasion to go further .
But finding these islands so surrounded by ice that no anchorage was accessible , we were compelled to abandon this plan and go directly northward , following a tolerably large opening in the pack .
After a cruise of some days among the ice we , on the 19th of September , at 17k ?
long .
east of Greenwich , reached 81ยง 42 ' N. Lat. ; but , as may be seen by the adjoined photograph , the ice further northward was so closed that it was impossible even for a boat to advance .
We turned westward , in vain looking for another practicable opening .
Following the border of the pack , we were , on the 24th September , at a longitude of 2 ?
W. already south of 79 ?
lat. , after often having passed fields of drift-ice covered with particles of earth , which seems to indicate that land is to be met with further northward .
Despairing of finding the ice westward more favourable , and anxious to make a new survey later in the autumn of the position of the ice-field between 0 ?
and 20 ?
long .
, we returned to our coal-depot .
North of 80ยง 30 ' the season was already far more advanced than one would presume from the observations at Spitzbergen during the first part of September .
The temperature of the air being -6 ?
to -8 ?
( Centigrade ) below zero , the surface of the sea was , when calm , covered by a layer of new ice more than an inch thick ; and after sunset the obscurity , increased by constant intense frost-rime , made the sailing or steaming among the ice both uncertain and dangerous .
As the salt water has no maximum of density , the freezing of the surface over a depth of 1000 to 2000 fathoms would be difficult to explain , were it not that the sea-water in the polar regions is by the melting of the ice and the heavy autumnal snowfalls less salt , and accordingly lighter , even when at a temperature lower than that of the layers beneath .
The last week of September was employed in filling our coal-boxes and refitting our steamer for a new struggle with the ice .
During these days a strong easterly snow-storm prevailed , which made us hope to find the newly-formed ice broken and the pack more dispersed than before .
Our N. 6 , intention was to employ this favourable circumstance for making a last attempt to go northward , and if this should prove to be unsuccessful to winter at Seven Islands .
This plan was frustrated by an accident similar to that which happened to the expeditions of Buchan and Ross in 1818 .
The calm that during the summer prevails in the Arctic Sea gave way after September 23rd to almost uninterrupted stormy weather , which caused such a violent and irregular sea on the border of the pack that it was impossible to advance without exposing the ship to be instantly crushed by the large rolling hummocks .
Consequently we were obliged to lay to under the 81st parallel , waiting for better weather and a calmer sea .
However , everywhere on the surface of the sea large pieces of ice were scattered , dangerous by their rolling movement , their hardness ( the terrperature was 14ยง 5 Centigrade ) , and the obscurity that prevailed at night .
During a south-easterly storm on April 24 our steamer was so vehemently thrown against such a hummock that a large leak ensued , which forced us to make as soon as possible for land .
After hard work in keeping the steamer afloat , we reached Amsterdam Island , where the leak was provisionally caulked so as to enable us to reach a safer harbour in Kings Bay the following day .
Here we had the ship down , and the damage was repaired as well as possible .
October 12 we left this harbour , going through a large field of new ice .
Evidently the season was t ; oo far advanced for further enterprises to the northward ; besides , our steamer , having got two ribs broken , was no longer strong enough for a new encounter with the ice ; and as a wintering only on Seven Islands could not be of an interest great enough to outweigl the loss of time , privations , and dangers unavoidably associated with it , we resolved to employ the yet tolerably open sea around the southern part of Spitzbergen to make an attempt to reach Giles Land , But being , at Thousand Islands , prevented by ice from penetrating further , we turned southward and reached Troms6 , April 19 , after having at Beeren Eiland sustained a severe storm , during which our steamer was quite , ice down by the waves that washed over .
During our cruise in the polar basin interesting observations were obtained on the temperature , currents , &amp;c. of the sea , and a number of carefully examined deep soundings were made with an apparatus resembling the 'Bulldog ' apparatus of M'Clintock , by the intelligent and intrepid commander of the 'Sofia , ' Captain Baron v. Otter , and I hope soon to be able to present you a copy of his map on these subjects , the position of the ice , &amp;c. As you already know by the letter of Dr. Malimgren , the scientific results of the first part of our expedition have been very satisfactory , and I hope also that its second part will give important information about several arctic questions .
By the expeditions of Tschitschayoff ( 1765 &amp; 1766 ) , Phipps , Buchan , Franklin , Scoresby , Sabine , Clavering , Parry , Torell , &amp;c. , it was already long ago proved that in the summer compact masses of drift-ice prevented ~vessels frot }i enetrating far into the p}ola btsii. .
But during the most favourable season , i. e. the time before the formation of new ice , no vessel had as yet made such an attempt .
This was the aim of the Swedish Expedition , and it found(1 ) That the polar sea is far more open in the autumn than at any other season of the year , but that even then the passage is soon stopped by dense and impenetrable masses of broken ice .
( 2 ) That during the winter the polar basin is covered by an unbroken ice , and that the freezing of the surface begins as early as the end of September .
From September 23 to October 12 we had almost every day , either with the steamer or with boats , to cross new-formed ice .
( 3 ) That an autumn cruise north of 80 ?
2 lat. is attended with unusual dangers , owing to the darkness and storms then prevailing , no ships being able a long time to sustain a night storm among large rolling pieces of ice and a cold of 15 ?
Cent. If the ship has the good luck not to be more or less damaged by the constant unavoidable encounters withi the ice mounts , it will soon by the immediate freezing of the washing waves be itself quite covered and pressed down by ice .
( 4 ) The idea of an open and comparatively milder polar basin is quite chimerical ; on the contrary , 20'-30 ' north of Spitzbergen a region of cold seems to begin which no doubt stretches far around the pole .
( 5 ) The only plan to attain the pole , from which success can be expected , is that adopted by most English arctic men , namely of going northward by sledges in the winter either from Smith Sound or Seven Islands .
I remain , Sir , Your obedient humble Servant , A. E. NORDENSKIOLD .
P.S. As soon as the magnetical observations of Dr. Lemstrom shall be duly worked out I will send you a copy of them .
Should you think it worth communicating this letter to the Rloyal Geographical Society , I beg you especially to inform its celebrated President , Sir R. Murchison , that besides other specimens interesting in a geological point of view ( for instance , a mass of Miocene and coal plants , bones of Ichthyosaurus ?
&amp;c. ) , we found a number of large fish fragments , probably belonging to the Devonian age , in the red slate of Liebde Bay , constituting the overmost layer of what I in my 'Geology of Spitzbergen ' called Hecla block formation .
Accordingly Sir Roderick probably is right in supposing that the deeper layers of this " formation " belong to the Silurian age .
The underlying crystalline plates are evidently Laurentian .

