308 On the Existence of Carbon in Sun 's Atmosphere .
[ Apr. Ill all tangential stresses on the surface without affecting the normal stresses ; and , in the second place to set up currents sweeping over the surfaces of solid bodies , thus completely destroying the simplicity of our first solution of the problem .
14 .
When external forces , such as gravity , act on the gas , and when the thermal phenomena produce differences of density in different parts of the vessel , then the well-known convection currents are set up .
These also interfere with the simplicity of the problem and introduce , very complicated effects .
All that we know is that the rarer the gas and the smaller the vessel , the less is the velocity of the convection currents ; so that in Mr. Crookes ' experiments they play a very small part .
IV .
" Note on the Existence of Carbon in the Coronal Atmosphere of the Sim .
" By J. N. Lockyer , F.R.S. Received March 20 , 1878 .
It is now four years since I obtained evidence , which seemed to mo conclusive , as to the existence of carbon in the sun 's atmosphere .
There were two points , however , which remained to be settled before the matter could be considered to be placed beyond all doubt .
The first was to establish that the fluted bands generally present in the spectrum of the arc , as photographed , which bands vary very considerably in strength according to the volatility of the metal under experiment , were really bands of carbon\#151 ; a point denied by Angstrom and Thalen .
This point is settled by the photographs submitted to the Society with this communication .
In these the carbon bands remain the same , though one spectrum is that of carbon in air , the other of carbon in chlorine dried with great care , and the proof that it cannot be the spectrum of a combination of carbon with oxygen lies in the fact that in the chlorine it is more brilliant than in the oxygen .
Now , assuming the chlorine to have been but imperfectly dried , this would not have happened if a compound of oxygen had been in question .
The next point was to obtain evidence that there was absolutely no shift in the carbon bands , which sometimes happens when the part of the arc photographed is not perfectly in the prolongation of the axis of the collimator .
A photograph has been obtained which supplies such evidence .
There are metallic lines close to the carbon bands , which are prolongations of Fraunhofer lines , while the lines which I have already mapped at W. L. , 39'27 and 39'295 , in the spectrum of iron , are also absolute prolongations .
Therefore there is no shift in the carbon flu tings .
Now the individual lines in the brightest portion of the 1878 .
] On the Poisonous Principle of Ureqhites Suberecta .
309 fluting in the ultra-violet are absolute prolongations of a fine series of Fraunhofer lines in which the wonderful rhythm of the elements of the flutings is fully retained .
Angstrom has already shown that the true carbon lines which we get when a coil and jar are employed are not reversed in the spectrum of the sun .
I have already shown that the calcium spectrum in the sun is the spectrum of the spark , and not of the arc .
The carbon vapour then exists not only in a more complicated molecular condition ( as is evinced by the flutings ) than the metallic vapours in the sun 's atmosphere , but at a lower temperature .
It must , therefore , exist above the , that is , in a region of lower temperature .
Lower pressure is also indicated by the feeble reversal .
The idea I put forward some time ago that the outer atmosphere of the sun ( and possibly the composition of the outer planets ) is more metalloidal than metallic is strengthened by this observation .
V. " On the Physiological Action of the Poisonous Principle of Urechites Suberecta .
" By JAMES JOHN BOWREY , F.C.S. , M.I.C. , Analytical Chemist to the Government of Jamaica .
Communicated by Professor A. W. Williamson , Foreign Secretary of the Royal Society .
Received March 22 , 1878 .
Several species of Echites are common in Jamaica , and certain of them , known as " nightshades , " or " Savana flowers , " are reputed to be very poisonous .
In this paper I shall confine myself to a species distinguished as the yellow flowered nightshade , and which Professor Daniel Oliver has identified as Urechites , Muell .
Arg .
{ Echites Neriandra , Griseb.f This plant is well known to be exceedingly poisonous ; frequently when I have been examining a sprig plucked at the road side a passing negro has warned me to be careful as it was very dangerous .
My attention was specially directed to it by the fact that it is supposed to have been the chief poison used by Obeah men in the time of slavery .
The most wonderful tales are current of the power of these men , and it is even stated that they could so administer their poisons as to kill immediately or after the lapse of days or weeks .
Sloane states , " Ho animal will meddle with this herb , and .
two drams of the expressed juice killed a dog in eight minutes , but it may be so ordered as to kill a person in many days , months , or years .
" This statement I certainly think exaggerated , but my experiments show that it has some considerable foundation in fact .
Sloane further states , " Two or three spoonfuls of the juice purge young persons upwards and downwards , bringing away worms .
The milk , outwardly

