The Stomodceum , Mesenterial Filaments , Sc. , of Xenia .
448 n the snout forms a very distinct " shell-breaker , " which seems to \#171 ; represented in the adult by the large median scale in front of he premaxillse .
( 15 ) At about the time of hatching there are on each of the jremaxill\#174 ; three distinct , sharp , conical teeth , of which the outer-aost is the largest .
These probably unite later on to form the arge upper cutting teeth of the adult .
There are also three similar eeth on each side in the front of the mandible , which probably mite to form the lower cutting teeth of the adult .
( I have not bund any vomerine teeth .
) Of the above results those regarding the amnion and the parietal ye seem to be the most interesting .
I had discovered and drawn he posterior amniotic reanal long before I was aware of Mitsukuri 's imilar and previous discovery in Chelonians , and it appears to me hat the observation is of especial interest in view of the supposed elationship between Sphenodon and the latter group , the probability f which is greatly strengthened by the striking similarity in the levelopment of the foetal membranes .
] The development of the parietal eye in Sphenodon certainly sup-torts Beraneck 's important conclusion that this organ ( in Lacerta and Lnguis ) arises independently of the epiphysis , a conclusion which jus also unknown to me until after I had come to suspect the same hing from observing the peculiar relation of the stalk of the parietal ye to the posterior commissure .
I may add that owing to the scarcity of biological literature in Christchurch the works of Mitsukuri and Beraneck above referred o are only known to me from the short abstracts in the ' Journal of he Royal Microscopical Society .
' ' The Stomodseum , Mesenterial Filaihents , and Endoderm of Xenia " By J. H. Ashworth , B.Sc. , Demonstrator in Zoology , Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Professor Hickson , F.R.S. Received February 23 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1898 .
The specimen referred to in this note is a colony of the Alcyona-seous coral Xenia sp. ?
from Celebes .
The Xeniidas are distinguished :rom all other Alcyonaria by their soft fleshy consistency and lon-retractije polyps .
The former character is due to the fact that heir spicules are very minute rounded or oval discs ( average measurements 0'015 mm. long , 0*01 mm. broad , 0*004 mm. thick ) , which have i horny basis impregnated with only a small quantity of calcium carbonate .
The polyps have the usual Alcyonaceous structure , and I VOL. LXIII .
2 L Mr. J. H. Ashworth .
The Stomodceum , for the greater part of their length are hound together in bundles t about forty to sixty , each bundle forming one stem of the colony .
The polyp , or , more correctly , the free portion of the polyp , i 5 mm. to 7*5 mm. long , and bears eight tentacles , each 4 mm. t 5'4 mm. long .
' UM Fig. 1.\#151 ; Semidiagrammatic view of one-half of a polyp which has been cut alonj the dorso-ventral line .
Only the bases of the tentacles are shown , x 20 .
| Fig. 2.\#151 ; Transverse section through the lower third of the stomodseum ( about th( level of reference line F in fig. 1 ) .
x 80 .
DF , dorsal mesenterial filamen on the edge of the dorsal mesentery ; F , flagella of siphonoglyphe ; Gh , glanc cells of stomodseum ; 1YM , lateral mesentery ( mesenterial filament absent ) M , mouth ; Sp , siphonoglyphe ; St , stomodseum ; T , tentacle ; UM , edge of ventral mesentery ( mesenterial filament absent ) .
The .
stomodseum of each polyp is T8 mm. to 2*2 mm. in length It has a well marked ventral groove or siphonoglyphe , the cells of the lower third of which bear long flagella .
Many of the cells of tB Mesenterial Filaments , and of Xenia .
445 remainder of the stomodseum bear short cilia on their free surface , but among these are numerous " goblet cells " ( G , figs. 1 and 2 ) , which have not hitherto been noticed in the stomodseum of the Alcyonaria .
These cells are swollen by some secretion to which they give rise ; they generally appear to be empty , having discharged their secretion , which , in some cases , can be seen issuing from the cell into the cavity of the stomodseum .
These secreting cells occur chiefly in the middle and lower portions of the stomodseum , and are most abundant on the lateral walls near the siphonoglyphe ( see fig. 2 ) .
They do not occur among the cells which form the siphonoglyphe .
I These " goblet cells " of the stomodseum are the only secreting cells connected with the digestive cavity which 1 have been able to find , as the six thick short ventral and lateral mesenterial filaments , which bear the gland cells in other Alcyonaria , are absent in all polyps of this Xenia .
Only the dorsal mesenteries possess thickened edges forming the two mesenterial filaments which have a similar course and structure to\#187 ; those of Alcyonium .
The free edge of the ventral and lateral mesenteries is only very slightly thickened , and the cells which cover this edge differ in no way from those which eover the remaining portions of the mesentery .
The two new points in the anatomy of this species of Xenia are the presence of gland cells in the stomodaeum and the absence of the six ventral and lateral mesenterial filaments usually present in the polyps of the Alcyonacea .
Wilson* ( in Kophobelemnon ) and Hicksonf ( in Alcyonium ) have shown that these mesenterial filaments bear the cells S which produce the digestive secretion .
I would suggest that the absence of these filaments in this Xenia is correlated with the presence of gland cells in the stomodaeum , and that these cells , judging i from their appearance and position , probably perform some digestive function .
The siphonozooids which occur in Pennatulids and some other i Alcyonaria are the only recorded examples of polyps in which the ( ventral and lateral mesenterial filaments are absent .
According to \#166 ; Wilson these siphonozooids derive their food-supply from the auto-\lt ; zoo ids or feeding-polyps , and , therefore , do not require cells to pro-e duce a digestive secretion .
fe In this species of Xenia , then , the secretion in connection with the [ digestive cavity is formed , not by endoderm cells , but by cells which \ are derived from the ectoderm , as , from a study of the buds , I have ( found that the stomodseum is ectodermic in origin in this as in other i Alcyonaria .
1 The endoderm cells which line the coelentera and the cavities of the i tentacles have a similar structure throughout the colony .
They are * * Mitt .
Zool. Stat. Neap el , ' vol. 5 , 1884 .
t ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Science , ' vol. 37 , 1895 .
446 The Stomodceum , Mesenterial , Xenia .
1 Or nr M Fig. 3.\#151 ; Endoderm cells from coelentera of polyps , showing the ordinary endo derm cells ( E ) and the cells bearing pseudopodia ( P ) .
x 400 .
E , endodern cell with vacuolated protoplasm ; ME , muscle jyocess of endoderm cell cu transversely ; N , nucleus ; P , pseudopodia of endoderm cells .
cubical or columnar , and contain many small vacuoles which give th\lt ; protoplasm a reticulate appearance ( E , fig. 3 ) , Among the ordinary endoderm cells there are numerous cells , the inner or free end of which is produced into a long pseudopodium ( P ) which is from four to eigh times as long as the basal portion of the cell .
This pseudopodiun may be slender or moderately stout , and may attain a length of ovei 012 mm. The basal part of the cell from which the pseudopodiun arises has the reticulate protoplasm of an ordinary endoderm cell , and the nucleus of the cell is situated in this portion .
The pseudopodiun is not vacuolated ; its protoplasm exhibits a homogeneous or verj finely granular structure .
The pseudopodia usually taper toward !
their free end , but in a few instances this end is slightly broadened and flattened .
In one case the pseudopodium , which is a very large one , bears a short branch near the middle of its length .
The pseudo podia appear to be flexible , a s in several cases they are curved so that their tips approach the basal portion of the cells .
These curious pseudopodia-bearing cells are very numerous , and are found in all parts of the endoderm lining the coelentera and the cavities of the tentacles .

