Numb. 58 .
PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
April 25 .
1670 .
The CONTENT S. An Extract of a Letter from Montauban , concerning a way of Prolonging Humane Life ; together with some Observations made in those Parts , and a Practice of making a good Muscadin-wine , by means of the mark or husks of that Grape .
An Observation made in Rome this year , touching the present Declination of the Needle there , Westward .
Some Anatomical Communications , together with an account of two odd Births , from Venice .
Directions and Inquiries about the Mines , Minerals , Baths , &amp;c. of Hungary , Transylvania , Austria ; together with the Answers thereto .
Inquiries about the bleeding of some Trees .
An Account of three Books .
I. Joh. Sig. Elsholtii CLYSMATICA NOV A , sive Ratio in venam sectam medicamenta immittendi .
II .
Nicol .
Hobokeni ANATOMIASECU ND IN AE HUMAN AE .
III .
Joh. Ludov .
Gansii C OR ALLIORUMHISTORI A. ANEXTRACT Of a Letter written by Monsieur de Martel of Montauban to the Publisher , concerning a way for the Prolongation of Humane Life , together with some Observations made in the Southern parts of France ; English 'd as follows .
SIR , Since you 'll have me say something to you of my present Engagements and Studies , I shall tell you , that I retain still my former inclination to Philosophy , and to search after Truths , either useful to Humane Life , or improving the understanding of Man : But by reason of many troublesome Avocations , I cannot apply my self to it but by Fits and Intervals ; and I must stay for a better time , and more favourable opportunities , to comply with my genius .
All I can do at present , is , to make Reflexions upon some Experiments , in the doing of which I find I am more particularly engaged in those , which regard our health ; concerning which , I employ much of that time I can redeem from the business of my Voyages ; wherein , when I am alone , I frequently entertain my self with that Subject .
And in reference to it , I shall now declare unto you , under the favour of Philosophical liberty , and your friendship , a thought of mine , much possessing my mind , but perhaps one of the most extravagant in the judgement of the Vulgar .
After I had often reflected upon the general causes of Diseases that lead to Death , I mean those of the Debilitation of Natures strength in the course of mans life , until its utter extinction , and of the causes of a meerly natural Death , by the failure of that strength in an extreme decrepit Age , without the concurrence of any excess or external cause ; I have entertained some conjecture , that if we were more intelligent in this matter , than we are , we might procure for our selves an Age of continual Youth ; setting aside the several Accidents of Divine Providence , and meerly considering the forces of Nature , not only not hindered , but also assisted as much as may be .
A certain Philosopher hath formerly been upon the same thing and Cardan affirms , that being young , this fancy rolled in his head ; and the Chinese search for it with an extreme industry ; but neither those , that have recorded that of the ancient Philosopher , nor Cardan , have said any thing of the ground of their notion , nor of the way which they thought was to be observed for attaining the end thereof .
No videar insanire sine ratione , I will tell you , what it is , I have grounded my conjecture upon .
Searching for the true causes of old Age , and of natural Death , I was not satisfied with that extinction of natural heat and desiccation of the Radical humour , assigned to be the cause thereof , nor with the causes of this extinction and desiccation , that are commonly alleged ; it being supposed , that this hot and moist principle of Life , in its own nature dissipable in the course of Life , not being perfectly repaired by food , is considerably diminished , which brings old Age , and is at last quite consumed , which causes natural Death ; where Authors make a great difference between the Seminal heat and moisture , and that which comes from Aliments ; so that , say they , the former cannot be repaired by the latter , as being heterogeneous .
Which to me seems not to be true ; for , doth not this Seminal heat and moisture originally proceed from what is superfluous of the third Concoction of the Aliments ?
It is therefore of the same nature ; and nothing hinders , but what is dissipated thereof may be perfectly restored by good nourishment , well prepared , and taken seasonably and in due quantity .
Whence it may be justly concluded , that the defect of repairing this principle of Life comes not from its nature , not reparable this way , but from something else .
The illustrious Bacon , finding the weakness of this supposition , did conceive , that this fault came from the inequal reparation of the liquid or soft , and the dry or more solid parts , which jointly serve to maintain and repair themselves ; whence it comes to pass , that the most easy to repair , and the most necessary for Life , as the Blood , cease at last to be sufficiently repaired by the defect of the others , which are not repaired at all .
Sanctorius , being almost of the same sentiment , holds , that natural Death happens , because the Fibres do so dry up that they can no more be renewed ; he making the maintenance of life to depend from the renovation of the parts .
Which doth not satisfy me neither , because even the Bones themselves , which are the hardest parts , are capable of renovation in old Age ; in regard that old Oxen , which we often eat , have , at certain times ( I say not of the Moon , according to the common opinion ) their Bones of the same place altogether dry and marrow-less , and at other times bedewed with a substance of the nature of marrow , wherewith they are then filled , which enlarges their pores as of a fine Spunge , and softens them ; which then especialy comes to pass , after they have fed upon good pasture in the Spring We must therefore inquire into other more true causes of old Age and Death , which to me seem to be the following .
I suppose , that the Blood is the principle of life , as far as it is vital , that is , in motion by the hot particles contained therein ; so that those , who expire by Age , do not dye for being destitute of blood , which is found abundant and laudable enough in their vessels , and which hath been sufficiently repaired till then ; but because it ceaseth to be vital , by reason of the too easy dissipation of the igneous particles , which make it such : Which , in my opinion , comes to pass , as it doth in Wine , which evaporates and loses its strength by the fault of the Vessel , which by some opening or other gives passage to what gives virtue to the Wine .
The Tunicles and Membranes of the Veins and Arteries which enclose the blood , wear in time away and wax thin , and their Texture gives , and breaks in several places , at which apertures the igneous particles abandon the blood : As in Stuffs and Cloth ( whose woof is in a manner like that of the Tunicles ) the Threads by wearing do loosen and break , insomuch that many holes are made in it as in a Sieve .
So that , if we had the Art to reinforce and to strengthen anew those Coats and Membranes , that they might not let slip what makes the blood vital , the life would be preserved perpetually .
For a proof of which , this may serve for the present , that the life of many dying persons is maintained , for some time , by making them swallow some hot and spirituous liquor , as spirit of Wine , or some Essence , by which the blood is fortified and quickned for some moments : But as this reinforcement of life , conveyed to the heart , and running into the Veins , soon slips out , so also this new vigor passes away quickly .
As there is no reason to despair of finding out such Medicins , or Aliments , as are proper to strengthen the Coats and Membranes of the Vessels , so as they may at all times retain the fiery and spirituous corpuscles of the blood , as well as in the time of Youth ; We may also hope to be enabled to maintain the blood in a condition always to furnish alike , as in our vigorous Age , for all the functions of life : The Engine of our body being not unlike to a Chymists Furnace , which at first well retaining the heat , is very proper for the operations of Art ; but at last , chinks and crevices being made therein , it ceases to be so , the heat getting away through them , what fire soever you kindle therein .
I shall say no more of it , the Sequel of what I have said going very far , if it be true .
In the mean time , if you think it not contemptible , I shall send you all what I have meditated upon it , at large , and in the form of a just Volume .
Although this Discourse exceeds already the bounds of a Letter , yet to satisfy your curiosity , I shall add some few Observations , I have met with in these parts .
First , Returning from Montpeliers , I went purposely to Frontignac in the last Vintage , to give you an account of the manner , how they make their Muscadin-Wine .
They let the Grapes grow half dry upon the Vine , and as soon as they are gathered , they tread and prefs them immediately , and Tun up the liquor , without letting it stand and work in the Fat , the Lee causing its goodness .
Thus is made the true genuine Muscadine , without mixing any other sort of Grape with it .
Lately a certain person thought fit to pass White-Wine of another kind upon the mark or husks ( which are wont to be cast away ) of the Muscadine Grapes , and hath made in this manner an excellent Wine , which hath the taste of Muscadine , and is more pleasing to some , nor is so heady , as the franc or true Muscadine .
Secondly , Upon the way of Beziers to Narbonne , in a place pretty large , raised by estimation above the level of the Sea , ( which is two Leagues distant from it ) about 15 or 16 fathoms , I saw Rocks , which enclosed a good number of big Oysters petrify 'd : And upon the same way above the place , which is called Nice , at the highest place of the descent , very cragged , where the Rock is cut to make a passage , is seen a Bed , two foot large , of many Cockle-shells petrify 'd , heaped up , as ordinarily they are on the Sea-shoar ; which notes sufficiently , that the Sea formerly covered this place , according to what Aristotle somewhere saith , Ubi nunc est Arida , olim Mare fuit .
Thirdly , We met lately with a Body , which being opened , the Liquor , which is contained in the Pericardium , or the Bag of the Heart , was found congealed into a consistence fit to be cut with a Knife , and two square fingers thick about the Heart .
I know not , whether this Observation be rare : But it is time to conclude with the assurance of my being , &amp;c. At Montauban ,

