6 .
" Researches on the Arseniates , Phosphates , and Modifications of Phosphoric Acid .
" By Thomas Graham , Esq. , M.A , F.R.S.E. , Lecturer on Chemistry in the Andersonian Institution at Glasgow .
Communicated by Dr. Tumer , F.R.S. This paper , which forms the sequel to the one on the same subject which was read at the preceding meeting , continues the inquiry into the combinations of phosphoric acid with different bases , and more particularly with soda .
The crystallized salt of phosphate of soda was found to contain 37* 1 of the phosphate , and 62*9 of water ; so that the author infers its composition to be three atoms base , namely , two of soda and one of water .
The pyrophosphate of soda , on the other hand , contains only two atoms soda as base , and gives accordingly bibasic precipitates .
The biphosphate of soda was found to admit of so great a number of changes in its composition and properties , as to render it an object of great interest .
Of the four atoms of water which the crystals contain , they lose two atoms at the temperature of 212 ?
, and not a particle more till the heat is raised to about 375 ? .
There is every reason to believe that the two atoms of water retained are essential to the constitution of the biphosphate of soda ; and that it contains three atoms of base , namely , one atom soda to two atoms water , united to a double atom of phosphoric acid .
Other varieties of this salt are also met with ; the first of which may be called a bipyrophosphate , containing only one atom of basic water ; the second being anhydrous , though soluble in water , and neutral in its reaction on litmus , but of which the exact composition is not well determined ; the third being an insoluble variety ; and a fourth being a metaphosphate of soda , ?
the author designating , by the term Metaphosphoric acid , a peculiar hypothetical state of composition of the elements of phosphoric acid in conjunction with water .
This new acid enters into combination with barytes and with lime , forming with these bases other metaphosphates .
The author concludes by a general review of the several modifications of phosphoric acid which have resulted from these inquiries .

