On the Theoretical Investigation of the Velocity of Sound , as corrected from M. Dulong 's recent Experiments , compared with the Results of the Observations of Dr. Moll and Dr. Van Beek .
By Dr. Simons , Assistant at the Observatory of the University of Utrecht .
Communicated by Captain Henry Kater , Vice-President .
Read March 18 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 209 .
] Laplace has demonstrated that Sir Isaac Newton 's formula for obtaining the velocity of sound , requires , in order to render it correct , that it be multiplied by a certain co-efficient , depending on the ratio between the specific heats of atmospheric air under a constant pressure , and under a constant volume .
Laplace has endeavoured to deduce this coefficient , first from the experiments of MM .
De la Roche and Berard ; secondly , from those of MM .
Clement and Desormes ; and lastly , from the more accurate investigations of MM .
Gay-Lussac and Welter .
By applying this correction , the velocity of sound , deduced from calculation , corresponded very nearly with the results of actual experiment .
Still , however , a degree of discordance was always found to take place .
With a view to perfect 2 the theory still further , Dulong attempted , by reversing the procegsS of Laplace , to deduce the coefficient by which the Newtonian for .
mula is to be multiplied , directly from experiments themselves .
The object of the present paper is to compare the investigation of Dulong with the experiments on the velocity of sound made by Drs. Moll and Van Beek , of which an account was lately published in the Philosophical Transactions .
By applying the values of the coefficients thus obtained , the computed velocities of sound came out much nearer to the observed velocities ; and the author concludes by remarking , that such differences as yet remain between calculation and experiment , may with great probability be ascribed to the errors , which are ulnavoidable in observations of so complicated a nature .

