On the " Blaze Currents " the Frog 's 439 threads points to their value as a means of conducting food material to the developing cork .
In the phloem there is a sharp contrast between the starch-containing medullary ray cells and bast parenchyma on the one hand , and the sieve tubes on the other , and no threads can be found directly connecting the parenchymatous cells with the sieve tubes , but the albuminous cells of the ray possess numerous thread groups which communicate with both tissues .
The starch medullary ray cells in the phloem and xylem possess numerous threads in the tangential and basal walls , especially in the former , and are also united with the bast parenchyma and albuminous cells .
The sieve tube threads which occur only in the radial walls always show a median dot .
The existence of threads in the xylem is doubtful .
All living parenchymatous cells show them , but it seems probable that they quickly disappear when the cells become lignified .
In the case of young bordered pits there is some evidence that the torus is traversed by connecting threads which are soon obliterated .
The leaf of Pinus sylvestrisshows a distribution of connecting threads similar to that noticed in the cotyledon .
The endodermis is seen to be an important layer connecting the tissues of the steal with those of the cortex by means of thread groups in the tangential walls .
In the pericycle there are both dead and living cells , but no threads persist in the walls connecting the dead with the living cells .
The albuminous cell thread groups are very well developed , and their function and peculiar properties are discussed .
In conclusion , the general distribution of the connecting threads throughout the tissues is considered .
" On the ' Blaze Currents ' of the Frog 's Eyeball .
" By A. D. Waller , M.D. , F.lhS .
Beceived December 6 , \#151 ; Bead December 6 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) The normal electrical response to light is positive .
The normal electrical response to every kind of stimulus is positive .
The normal response of the frog 's eyeball is partly retinal , partly by other tissues .
The direction of response is reversed by pressure .
The normal " blaze currents " excited by single induction shocks , and by condenser discharges , are comparable with the normal discharges of an electrical organ .
Their maximum voltage is of the same order as that of the discharge of a single electrical disc ( over Dr. A. D. Waller .
0*03 volt ) .
Their magnitude and duration increase with increased strength of excitation .
Summation of stimuli , summation of effects , staircase increase , and fatigue decline are manifested by blaze currents .
Stimulation of excessive strength abolishes them completely , but only temporarily .
The energy of a blaze effect may considerably exceed the energy of its exciting cause .
The effects are observable for at least five days after excision of the eyeball .
they appear to be diminished under prolonged illumination , and increased under prolonged darkness .
Positive response to a single induction sliock sent through the eyeball in the positive ( upward ) direction .
The influence of raised temperature and increased pressure is studied , and under the influence of the latter four types of response are recorded .
Comparison is made between blaze currents and the responses of electrical organs as described by du Bois Reymond .
During and after maximal blaze the resistance diminishes ; the diminution is not irreciprocal .
If single electrical currents are passed through a normal eyeball and a galvanometer , in a " homodrome " and in a " heterodrome direction ( i.e. , with and against the direction of normal discharge ) , the homodrome ( positive ) deflection is greater than the heterodrome ( negative ) deflection .
This inequality is the result of positive blaze current , and is abolished by death or strong tetanisation .
In the latter case the abolition is temporary .
The normal electrical response to light persists undiminished at a time when blaze currents have been abolished by tetanisation .
On the other hand , blaze current may be present in an eyeball giving no response to light .
The altered state of the eyeball in relation to light does not necessarily run parallel with its altered state in relation to electrical stimuli .
On the " Blaze Currents " 0/ the Frog 's Eyeball .
Direction of exciting \#151 ; current .
Direction of organ response .
Living .
Dead .
Torpedo \lt ; { 1 f Dorsum i ' *t +l Tenter * Dorsum ^ Tenter j i .
f Cornea +t j Fundus Eyeball { 1 Cornea Fundus -J + t - 1 + t Fig. 2 .
G\amp ; Lv\amp ; nometen Flan of circuit .

