An Account of some Experiments made at several Meetings of the Royal Society by the Ingenious Fred .
Slare M. D. Fellow of the Royal Society , and one of the College of Physicians , with some short applications of them to Physical matters .
Experiment I. A Parallel betwixt Lightning and a Phosphorus .
1 .
IN order to the keeping my solid phosphorus from consuming , I usually placed it at the bottom of a Glass of Water : having several of these Glasses disposed upon a Table in view whilst ~ lay upon my Bed , I could observe several flashes of Light that sucessively past through the Water , and made such bright , and vigorous Coruscations in the Air , as would surprise and affrighten one not used to the Phenomenon .
This fiery Meteor passes something contracted through the incumbent Water , but expands itself much as soon as it gets above it .
If you would make these Experiments to advantage , the Glass ought to be deep and Cylindrical , and not above Three-quarters filled If we compare these appearances with Lightning , we may observe that Lightning , which comes at Intervals passes uninterrupted the most condensed Clouds , and is not extinguished or obstructed by the greatest Storms or Catarracts of water , but like the Beams of the Sun or any other fire freely passes through Glass and water .
2 .
This Phosphorus in the mentioned state only emitts these Flashes of Light in warm weather , a certain temper of the Air being necessary to produce the effect , for in the Winter or cold weather I never observed it .
The warm season of the Summer is most productive of of Lightning .
3 .
The mentioned Flash of Light is not apt to kindle or burn any combustible matter , as I found by holding my finger in it unmolested , but not trusting to that , I held in the flame , Paper , Flex , and such Materials as are apt to take fire , which it did no more than when we projected the Light of the Moon by a Concave Glass , upon the like bodies .
Such an inoffensive Flame that of Lightning is generally observed to be , But 4 .
The matter of the Phosphorus , whilst in a more condensed body , will easily be accended by the warmth of the Air , or by the immediate Beams of the Sun , and then will born very furiously with such a penetrating fire as will not easily be extinguished .
Thus Lightning ; when condensed or contracted , and wrapped up in a Vehicle of Air , so that it does not so easily diffuse it self through the yielding AEther ; will then set fire to Houses , Trees , &amp; c , and do great mischief .
5 .
Our matter whilst burning acts the part of ~ , and when it goes out it resolvs into a Menstruum that dissolves Gold , Iron , and other Metals .
Thus Lightning melts down , Gold , Iron , Lead , and other Metals .
These Experiments were concluded most Naturally to illustrate and resemble the Phenomenon of Lightning , far exceeding either those made with Nitre , Gun-powder or Aurum fulminans .
As to some other properties of this shining and burning Preparation see the Philosophical Collections .
Experiment II .
BY mixing Two Liquors actually cold to produce such sparkling and fiery bodies , as are not only visible in the dark , but at noon day in the enlightned Air .
This Experiment was not a little surprising , which was thus made .
We took betwixt Ten and Twenty Grains of the solid Phosphorus and caused it to melt in as much water as would just cover it , which was about a Dram : after it was actually cold we poured it into two Ounces of Oil of Vitriol , which being well shaken together did first heat , and then throw up such fiery Balls , which like so many Stars will adhere to the sides of the Glass and continue to burn for some time to the great pleasure of the spectator .
Experiment III .
BY the addition of an Oil to the foregoing mixture to produce a flame .
This is done only by pouring a small quantity of Oil of Turpentine , without shaking the Vessel , the mixture takes fire and burns very furiously .
This Experiment ought to be made in an open Vessel where the Air has a free access .
This succeeded with Oil of Petroleum , and de Lateribus : but Sallet-oyl and spirit of Wine not be made to flame .
The Ingredients that compose this burning mixture are apart cold to the touch , and some of them in their OQ q perations perations , thus Water and Oil of Vitriol are cooling in their Nature , but these in Conjunction cause a great heat , which soon excite the agile Particles of our Phosphorus to an actual fire , and this Meeting with an inflamable Ingredient such as Oil of Turpentine , or the like ; does produce as considerable a flame as boiling Oils as wont to do .
These Experiments would have been less considerable or surprising , had that of Borrichius been certain ( mentioned by Bartholinus in the Acta Hafniensia ) and quoted by an Ingenious Fellow of the Royal Society as credible .
The Title of the Experiment being , to make two Liquors kindle one another tho apart ~ are actually cold .
Tho I knew it would fail of the desired event by several unsuccessful Trials I had made , yet I was the willinger to make the Experiment before so many impartial Judgesbecause this specious Experimenthad been imposed not only on some that were present , but also on the faith of many of the German Nation , who sometimes quoted it to serve their Hypothesis .
This made it necessary to bring it to a final Determination .
Experiment IIII .
BEing a Refutation of Borrichius 's Experiment that pretends to Accension .
We took according to direction four Ounces of fresh drawn Spirit of Venus Turpentine to six Ounces of Aquafortis newly drawn and very strong .
We mixed them together in a Glass body , and accordingly placed the Vessel in the Sun Beams , ( which foretold some of the By-standers would deceive us ) after half an hours Patience the Liquors began to ferment very furiously , in so much that a very great Smoke was raised by this means which was ordered to kept down by a Cork that stopped the the Vessel .
This condensed red Fume represented flame by reason of the Beams of the Sun that were permitted to shine upon it : but I was assured that this was a great Fallacy , and that the Experiment contradicted the Proverb , There is no Smoke without some Fire .
I was willing to give the Experiment any advantage , which made me comply with that Circumstance of doing it where the Beams of the Sun were admitted : but this very Circumstance giving ground to the mistake , I desired leave to make the Experiment in a dark Room where we should better discern any real productions of Light : being assured that the action of the Liquors would as certainly succeed in the darkened Room as in a light One .
The Experiment was repeated , and the action of the Liquors was no less vigorous than in the former Experiment .
Moreover Flax , being looked upon as a very combustible matter , was suspended in the Fume : but in short , the observers of this Experiment , which were many and very Inquisitive , could not discover the least spark of fire or glimple of Light , so that the ~ remained untouched , and the fermenting Liquors gave no light , fire , or flame : only take this Caution ; keep your Candles at a distance , for the Fume will soon take fire at any actual flame and set the Liquors a burning , and so it may impose upon the Careless .
Experiment V. BEing a New Experiment with Ebullition and incale scence .
Amongst those various mixtures , wherein great Heats and Effervencies with much Ebullition were produced , none were so considerable as this , which was also shown at the same Meeting .
Upon an Ounce of spirit of Nitre , if you pour two or three Drams gradually of the highest rectified Spirit of Wine , the Heat and Ebullition will be incredibly great .
And whereas in the former Experiment you must wait a good time for your Effervescence , here tis performed in an Instant so that I had more reason to expect from the mighty action of these Liquors upon each other , a production of actual fire or flame , than from Borrichius his Experiment .
Possibly some may be ready to imitate this Experiment which may fail them , unless they observe some little Directions .
Errors of this kind , have made some people believe they are imposed upon when there is no such thing .
Common Spirit of Nitre , such as was first distilled into water , and afterwards dephlegm 'd ( or distilled so as to have all the water separated ) this will fail your expectations ; it must be the Red Spirit of Nitre , and a very high rectified Spirit of Wine .
In the next place , you must first pour into your Glass the Spirit of Nitre , which is the heavier Liquor , and then the Spirit of Wine after , for if you invert the order you will have no Ebullition , which will not a little puzzle the reason of Philosophers .
In this Experiment ( especially if the Ingredients are made very high ) the Spirit of Nitre does as it were act the part of a Coal of fire : as fire exhales and drives up water that is thrown upon it , so does this spirit of Nitre very furiously throw up a great quantity of the Vinous spirit , in so much that it presently perfumes a Room with the smell : but to be more exact in this Observation , we mixed equal parts together in a Retort , and then cemented Receiver of good dimentions , and so we condensed that Vapor which rises from this mixture and obtained much of our Spirit of Wine again .
Both these Experiments may serve as Arguments against the notion of Acidum and Alkali , since mighty Conflicts may be excited by bodies of differing Textures where these two Principles are not conspicuous .
We have here indeed very strong Acids , but in the other never were any Alkalis suspected whether uolatile or fixed .
Nor can I think that that latent Alkali imagined to be in the spirit of Nitre does produce duce this great conflict , for I question whether there be any such thing ; if it be an Alkali , it has quite lost its property , that tis not wrought upon by so strong an Acid in whose bosom it lies .
Wood may as well remain incombustible in a great Fire , as such an Alkali under the power of so great an Acid .
But this is only a hint .
There are various Liquors whose mixtures are apt to produce greater or lesser effervescenscies , heats , and inflammations , so that particularly the great Incalescence and burnings in Fevers are easily accounted for , and made obvious by occurring Experiments .
There seems more difficulty to account for some cold disaffections of the Blood , and other Juices of the body .
For Hysterical Persons will complain of a great Chillness or Frost in the Blood , during that Paro~ ysm , such as a good fire and warm Cordials will not easily conquer .
In these Persons the Pulse is always very tardy , ( differing from what I have observed in Agues where in the Cold Fit it has been very quick .
) This may be better explicated by a solution of Sal Armoniack than of Nitre in water .
Experiment VI .
OF Cold produced without Ebullition , giving some account of Hysterical Paroxyfms .
In about a Pint of water we dissolved a Quarter of a Pound of Sal Armoniack , which was found to be so very cold to the Touch that we needed no Weather Glass to convince us of the effect .
In this Experiment we have no Ebullition or Swelling of the Liquors , but rather a condensation , which may also happen in the Hysterical frigid Paroxysm , for in case the humours swelled they would require more space , which perhaps is not to be allow 'd , but must then be compensated by the acceleration of the Pulse , which would then be obliged to transmit the extended humours in a shorter time , but this is not our case here , but reserts to the next~ I here choose to explain the affections of the blood by the solution of Sal Armoniack that ( as we said ) in our Experiment ) affected the Blood of those Persons that long touched it , with a sensible and troublesome degree of cold .
For the Mass of Blood may be very apt to degenerate into such Concretions as do much resemble Sal Armoniack ; and this will seem more probable if we consider the humane and other blood naturally abounds with Urinous Salts , and do preternaturally degenerate into Acrimonious and Pungent Juices , which may be much promoted by a too liberal use of high seasoned or salted Meat , and sour Liquors .
For this we find by Experience that such an acid as Spirit of Salt mixing with an Urinous , will be converted into Sal Armomack ( which has now lost much of its Volatile Nature ) This we may plainly discern by its shooting into a Figure , that resembles Feathers , which is proper to Sal Armoniack .
That the blood does abound with various sorts of salt it is not to be doubted , and that it has such a Salt as some call Salsum , which is Sea-salt , I lately exhibited at the Royal Society , and lastly that Sal Armoniack has its principal dependence on great quantities of Volatile Salt ( such as the blood is stored with ) and on this mentioned Salt , it is very well known .
So that having presupposed such Concretions as these to have their existence in the blood , we must consider how they come to act .
That there may be some antecedent and other Concomitant Causes of Hysterical Passions , I do not deny ; I only or principally consider the cause of the cold affections .
It is very probable that the Glands do suffer great obstructions , which are antecedent to this Paroxysm : I am the rather inclined to this opinion , by reason of so great a Thirst our Patients are apt to complain of before and in the Fit : by which obstructions the usual Secretions of the Lympha are hindred as well from watering the the Mouth as the Oesophagus and Stomach , which causes Thirst .
More over the less quantity of Lympha is evacuated the usual way , the more is absorbed by the Veins , which does so dilute those Salts in the Mass of blood as brings them to a Fluor or sucha Solution as is necessary to give the cold Effect .
Thus Sal Armoniack will mix with some Liquors and not with others , scarce at all with Spirit of Wine , and not so well with Wine as Water , and the more limpid the Water is , the better and sooner it dissolves , and to this Menstruum does especially impart this cold Operation .
Which not unreasonable conjecture of an extraordinary effusion of Lympha into the Mass of Blood at such a time , is farther confirmed by that great quantity of Urine those Persons are apt to make : which has made some fear a Diabetes that have not been well versed in such Cases : for the Urine here will look very pale and limpid .
And this may be further proved that when the Cuticular Glands are hindered from doing their transpiring office , particularly by any cold ambient Fluid which happens to them that go into water , that then they are obliged to throw off greater quantities of Urine , which has been observed by me to be very pale and insipid , after a second or third Evacuation .
But I must not be too tedious .
Experiment VII .
OF Cold produced by a very great Ebullition wherein the cold and hot Fits of an Ague are resembled by a mixture of Liquors .
If we use in this Experiment any Acid , whether of Vinegar , Verjuice , Wood Sorrel , Oranges , Limmons , or perhaps yet milder ones , by casting into these Juices a uolatile Salt of Human Blood , I always observed a notable Ebullition would ensue , which I never could find would heat as such boiling Liquors are apt to do ( and one would expect they should ) but on the contrary affected a good Weather Glass so as to make the Liquor descend , which was a manifest token of Cold .
There I found that the higher the Acid was , the greater the Ebullition and the Cold would be , which is very remarkable .
For this very Reason I made use of very strong Vinegar , dephlegm 'd by freezing ( which way is taught by the Honourable Mr. Boyle , to whose great favours and manuduction I must ascribe whatever service I shall be able to do Experimental Philosophy ) by this mixture we came much nearer the freezing Point .
But since it proves troublesome to prepare this Vinegar , and because it can be done only at certain times .
I have most commonly made the Experiment with Spirit of Venus , or Verdigrease , which is the highest Vinegar in the world : with this the Cold will be most sensible to the Touch , and most conspicuous on the Weather Glass .
For by this mixture I have in Summer made a Weather Glass to descend below the Temperament of cold Fountain water , six Inches at least , which brought it so near the freezing mark that it scarce wanted half an Inch .
But at the same time the Liquor swells and takes up more room than before , and will not be contained in shallow Vessels .
In this Experiment we have some things very rare , that a great and violent motion of two dissenting Liquors , should be so far from producing Heat as to produce a notable degree of Cold , and that too with a considerable expansion of their parts .
Here we might instance in an apposite and as unexpected an Experiments , where an effecgt contrary to our common observation happens , and that is thus , if you mix with Oil of Vitriol a quantity of water , a great heat will follow without an Expantion of these Liquors , whereas heatdo 's constantly produce it in Wine , Water , and most fluid and solid bodies ; for here it rather shrinks and condenses , as you may see by making the Experiment in a Glass with a long Neck , and setting your mark as soon as you make your mixture .
Both these Instances may a little puzzle the Cartesian ~ Hypothesis to account for , tho I am far from thinking they are able to destroy them .
But to proceed with our Experiment , after I had sufficiently satisfied the worthy Spectators , that the produced degree of Cold was very considerable , I then poured in some few drops of another Liquor , that soon altered the temper of our Cold mixture and in two or three Minutes brought it to a warmth beyond that of the Ambient Air , tho it was a very warm Sun-shining day , in July .
To apply the Experiment .
In the Cold Fit of an Ague we have often a strong and quick Pulse , which argues an Ebullition ( tho I dare nor call it an Effervescence ) and quick motion of the Blood , and the pains of the head and other parts may be due , to too great distress or extension of the Vessels , which depends on the expansion of the boiling humours .
In this artificial the cold mixture we observe , a mighty commotion and high Ebullition and expansion of the Liquor .
In the Blood and other Juices of the body we constantly discover great quantities of volatile Salts , and sometimes either from an infected Air , or bad diet , and from several other causes , sour Juices may be derived to the blood , which may act upon these volatile Salts .
the blood so much abounds with , as to give a notable sense of cold .
It is no new thing for us to meet with Patients , that have thrown upon their Stomacks and Bowels ( which are the great Emunctories of the Blood ) very sour Liquors , such as when they happen to fall upon the Teeth will corrode those hard parts .
Thus in our Experiment tis plain that a foreign acid meeting with a volatile Salt drawn from the blood , does produce a cold effect ; and since we know no Liquors but a mixture of this kind that gives us such a cold Phenomenon , it seems not unreasonable to believe that the cold Fit of an Ague may be due to such a mixture .
As to the Incalescence made in our mixture , I should have told you that it was done by the bare addition of some drops of Oil of Sulphur per Campanam , being a Liquor that owes its Origin to the fire , I suppose it to have borrowed that Calorifrick quality thence , which made it represent the hot Fit : for this I observed that notwithstanding the action of the Cold mixture , it grew more thick and slimy than twas at first , and that the addition of the mentioned Oil , or~Spirit of Brimstone made it more clear and fluid .
Thus the agile Spirits of the humane body , which tho they cannot be thought to be actual fire , yet are supposed to be somewhat Analogous to it , being in more abnndance poured into the turbid Mass of Blood , do by their warmth and action first attenuate those gross Coagulums , and then manifestly subdue , and reduce many of those indisposed Particles to a good Texture , and expel those that are disagreeable by sweat and Urine or both ways ; which is a good Prognostic of a cure of that paroxism .
I shall only add this Objection made , viz. That there are no such Acids of so high a degree of Acidity found in the human body as we make our Experiments with .
I may answer that there is no need also of so great a degree of Cold to put our blood into an Ague , a small declination from its usual Temperature , being sufficient to make us very ~ .
Postscript .
I shall here only hint by way of Postscript an ingenious Proposition of a very worthy Person of the Society , to try whether the Cortex Peruvianus would not prevent this Artificial Ague our Liquors produced : which we brought to Trial , tho the success did not answer .
For we made a strong Infusion of our Bark in common Vinegar and then injected a quantity of the mentioned volatile Salt , a considerable Commotion of the Liquor ensued with a degree of Cold , but was not altogether so fierce as formerly , moreover it abated much of rising to the heigth of the former Experiment , when Opium was mixed with the mentioned Cortex : tho in this case the Acidity was far from being quite mortified .
As to the Cortex I do not intend in this Experiment to explain its Nature , which was only made to satisfy that sagacious Gentleman 's Curiosity : for I never thought that febrifuge did act the part of an Alkali in performing the Cure .
But if I can make it appear that there are other Medicines that do pertain or belong to the families of Alkaly 's , which are effectual in the cure of Agues , this may serve to prove , that they do it by destroying some morbid Acidities in the humours or Viscera , and so prevent the usual Commotions such disagreeable Liquids are apt to make upon their Conventions .
This is manifest that Coral and Crabs eyes and other Testaceous bedies numbered amongst the fixed Alcaly 's and not only these but those real fixed Salts , as Sal Absinthij , Cardui benedicti &amp;c. as well as the volatile Salts in general , do highly correct and change Acid humours where they can meet them , and not only so but do hinder Liquors that are apt to sour and corrupt from degenerating : ( thus Milk and Blood it self may be preserved much longer ; the first from growing sour , the last from fermenting and putrefying by a quantity of volatile Salt or Spirit mixed with them : ) which is in like manner granted to be true , that many Agues have been cured by Medicines of this Nature , Sal Absinthij as well as volatile Salts are used as the principal Ingredients in common Febrifuges .
For a farther prosecution of this Experiment , we dissolved as much Chalk as strong Vinegar was able to do , and then having strained it through a Filter , we poured it upon a quantity of the highly rectified Spirit of Blood , but found neither Ebullition , or any sensation of cold or heat to follow .

