I. " Second List of Nebulae and Clusters observed at Bangalore with the Royal Society 's Spectroscope ; " preceded by a Letter to Professor G. G. STOKES .
By Lieut. JOHN HERSCHEL , R.E. Communicated by Prof. STOKES .
Received July 20 , 1868 .
Bangalore , June 17,1868 .
MY DEAR SIR , -As it is now three weeks since I have been able to make any use of the Royal Society 's telescope &amp;c. , owing to the setting in of the rainy season , and as circumstances oblige me shortly to move my quarters and start the instruments for the eclipse , it seems better to send all the observations I succeeded in getting since I last wrote up to the time of the change of weather .
I am sorry this second list is not a fuller one .
But the fact is , that now that the planetary nebule list is exhausted , and the more conspicuous nebulae , I find no small difficulty in seeing anything .
It is true that the globular clusters alone form a long list for examination , a considerable number of which may be visible with the spectroscope ; but as they seem to show continuous spectra without exception , the interest attaching to this class is considerably diminished .
I have still a long list of nebulae proper to examine ; but the proportion of these which exhibit monochromatic spectra seems very small-so small , indeed , that I cannot report a single new instance in this class .
There are some conspicuous ones which will present themselves later in the year , among which one or two may possibly be recognizable as gaseous ; but the majority , I may say the large majority , seem otherwise , and therefore difficult of positive identification .
It will be necessary to despatch the instruments along with my camp equipage &amp;c. in a fortnight or three weeks , as the spot selected for a station of observation is upwards of 300 miles distant from Bangalore .
I cannot expect that the return journey will have been effected before the middle or end of September .
For the next three months , therefore , the nebulae must be allowed to pass unchallenged .
Whether I shall have the opportunity of continuing my search then , or not , must depend on circumstances which I cannot now foresee .
Should the Society see fit to allow the instrument to remain in my hands for a few months longer , I will at least undertake to prosecute the search during such intervals of leisure as my other duties may leave at my disposal .
But at present , perhaps , the question of the disposal of the instrument after the eclipse is not an urgent one .
The station selected for the eclipse observations is Jamkandi ( vnlg .
Jumkhundee ) , about midway between Belgaum and Sholapore .
The selection has been determined chiefly by the small rainfall of that district , and by the spontaneous offers of assistance of II .
H. the Chief of Jamkandi .
I have no great fears about the weather ; but of course one may be disappointed .
There is certainly a better chance there than at any point on the east coast .
Yours truly , J. HERSCHEL .
Nos. 2068 .
3642 .
These are all of the class globular clusters .
They are all described as very bright or bright , and most of them well 42 resolved .
Their spectra were recognized , without excep4270 .
&gt; tion , as continuous , and that generally without difficulty ; 4270 .
but 2068 and 4211 were very faint in the spectroscope .
4275 .
42 The spectrum of 4307 was unusually bright , and was 42 visible from about D to about F. No further details ap4307 .
| pear necessary about these .
4311. .
The following " planetary nebulae " have been recognized as showing monochromatic spectra : No. 1843 .
Faint monochromatic light at D+2'22 ( May 9th ) .
No. 2076 .
Faint monochromatic light , distinct , but not measured ( May 10th ) .
No. 1565 .
Faint monochromatic light , spectrum not seen until the sixth time of examination ( May 14th ) .
No. 1801 .
Monochromatic spectrum suspected only ( May 16th ) .
No. 3229 .
" Very bright ; round ; barely resolvable .
" Spectrum clearly continuous .
No. 3606 .
" Very remarkable ; very bright ; very large .
" Continuous spectrum distinctly .
No. 4189 .
" Bright ; pretty large ; partially resolved .
" Continued spectrum ( May 16th ) .
No. 4421 .
" Bright ; small ; well resolved .
" Continuous spectrum seen pretty easily- ?
very bright ; pretty large ( May 18th ) .
No other nebulae have been recognized ( since the previous report ) as having positively either monochromatic light or continuous spectra ; but the following list shows those which are believed to be continuous .
No. 3227 .
" Very bright ; large .
" No. 3397 .
" Very bright ; pretty small .
" No. 3477 .
" Very bright ; small ; round ; a star of the 10th magnitude following .
" No. 3504 .
" Very bright ; pretty small ; round .
" No. 3706 .
" Remarkable ; very bright ; very large .
" No. 2341 .
" Bright ; pretty large .
" No. 2586 .
" Bright ; pretty large ; barely resolvable .
" No. 3214 .
" Bright ; pretty large .
" 59 1868 .
] The evidence in the case of these is purely negative .
They have been brought on the slit with sufficient precision to make it in each case almost a certainty , taking into consideration their apparent brightness , that had their light been monochromatic in the sense in which other similar nebulae are so , it must have been recognized as such ; whereas , if dispersed , analogy would forbid any expectation of detecting the feeble continuous spectrum .
In each case I have satisfied myself that the inference was a iegimate one before recording it , both by testing the focal adjustment on a neighbouring star and by repeating ( if necessary ) the adjustment in respect of direction , until the case appeared a hopeless one .
Some instances , in which the presumption was not so strong as to seem to justify the inference , are omitted from this list .
Several nebuhle , the measurements of whose spectra were given in my previous list , were .
reexamined .
I am rather inclined to believe that the position of the principal light is not quite constant for all .
The newer and more careful measurements certainly throw doubts upon some of the earlier ones .
Nevertheless I have reason to believe that the discordances are not wholly due to inaccurate determination .
But on this and other points I hope to be able to write more fully on a future occasion , when a larger number have been remeasured .
The following were reexamined .
No. 4066 .
Very bright spectrum ; 3 lines certainly ; faint continuous spectrum suspected .
No. 4510 .
Very bright spectrum ; 2 lines only seen , both hazy ; comparatively distinct continuous spectrum of some length on both sides of the principal line .
No. 4390 .
Seen easily in a bright field ; 3rd line seen certainly .
No. 4361 .
Very large ; 2 lines only ; ill defined ; decided continuous spectrum at the brightest point ( not stellar ) .
P.S.-I have throughout used the word " monochromatic " in preference to " linear " intentionally , because , though not strictly correct , it appears more so than the latter .
Unless a cylindrical lens is used , or unless the object examined is so great as to be partially stopped out by the slit ( generally a very wide one ) , the term " linear " seems purely conventional .
I have reason to believe that some of my earlier measures were erroneous , partly through not realizing the " play , " so to speak , of the small image within a wide slit , the linear character being illusory .
The term has become so intimately associated with spectral appearances , that one is apt to forget how completely mechanical , and therefore conventional a characteristic of the quality of light is expressed by it ; Thus I find that , in more than one instance , expectation is entertained of possible bright " lines " being seen during the coming eclipse , without the intervention of a slit , as though this were an inherent quality in light itself .

