588 The Origin of Osmotic Effects .
Ill\#151 ; The Function of Hormones in Stimulating Enzymic Change in Relation to Narcosis and the Phenomena of Degenerative and Regenerative Change in Living Structures .
By Henry E. Armstrong , F.R.S. , and E. Frankland Armstrong , Ph. D. , D.Sc .
( Received April 29\#151 ; Read June 2 , 1910 ; ) [ International Catalogue of Scientific Literature .
Authors ' title slips :\#151 ; D , M , Q. Subject slips:\#151 ; D 7155 " 1 Q 0224 J Osmot*c effects in the cell .
Q 0295 Action of anaesthetics in the cell .
Q 1205 1 Hormones as stimulants of enzymic change .
D 8030 Metabolism in the laurel leaf under the influence of hormones .
M 3040 Influence of hormones on changes in the plant .
] It is well known that a variety of substances will stimulate plant growth if used in more or less minute proportions , although when used in excess they are active anaesthetics ; the acceleration of the flowering process in plants by means of ether vapour is a familiar case in point ; animal as well as vegetable tissues are influenced by such substances .
So far as we are aware , no analysis of either process\#151 ; either of that of accelerated change or of that of retarded change\#151 ; hitherto attempted has been attended with results that are in any way satisfactory ; the tendency has been to correlate all such manifestations vaguely with protoplasmic activity and to attach to them a vital significance .
The question we would raise is whether , in the'case of animals and plants , protoplasm may not serve as an infinitely delicate indicator of change , whether the effects observed be not often the outcome of changes initially simple in themselves , that commonly escape detection because no proper opportunity is given of observing them .
Our attention has been specially drawn to this subject by two striking communications made to the French Academy of Sciences on July 12 , 1909 , the one by Guignard , the other by Mirande , * on the effect of chloroform and * * Count .
Rend .
, ' 1909 , vol. 149 , p. 91 , L. Guignard , " Influence de l'aneathesie et du gel sir le dedoublement de certains glucosides chez les plants .
" Ibid. , p. 140 , Mai'cel Mirande , " Influence exerc6e par certaines vapeurs sir la cyanogendse v6g6tale .
Proc6d6 rapide pour la recherche des plants \#163 ; t acide cyanhydrique .
" Ibid. , p. 829 , E. Heckel , " Influence des anesth6siques sir les plants a coumarine .
" The Origin of Osmotic Effects .
other anaesthetics in stimulating enzymic activity in leaves ; in particular we were impressed by the wonderful delicacy and elegance of the method developed by Guignard of demonstrating the liberation of hydrogen cyanide in the case of leaves containing cyanophoric glucosides by means of paper coloured orange-yellow with an alkaline solution of sodium picrate\#151 ; if subjected to the action of hydrogen cyanide , such paper is at first coloured a brown-orange , then rose-red and finally a dark brick-red .
The test is one of surprising delicacy .
If a laurel leaf be enclosed in a test tube together with a slip of the moistened paper , no alteration is observed in the colour of the paper even at the end of several weeks ; if a minute drop of chloroform be introduced , the colour changes within a very few minutes .
Mirande , in the note under consideration , calls attention to the method as being applicable to the detection of cyanophoric glucosides in plants generally .
Guignard , by whom Mirande 's note was presented to the Academy , discusses the subject from a wider point of view , with reference to observations of a similar character which he has had occasion to make in recent years on the decomposition of the glucoside in cruciferous plants .
In particular , he calls attention to the similarity in the effects produced by anaesthetics and by cold .
The stimulative influence exercised by chloroform is specially striking in view of the remarkable efficiency as inhibitants of vital activity of substances so inert as chemical agents as toluene and naphthalene .
Having long sought for an explanation of such effects , we have welcomed the opportunity afforded by Guignard 's test of ascertaining what class of substances would condition enzymic activity in the leaf .
At the outset , in appeared probable that the leaf surfaces and cellular membranes would act as differential septa and that the problem might advantageously be treated from the point of view developed by Adrian J. Brown in his recent striking and suggestive communication to the Society* on the selective properties of the membrane surrounding the barley grain .
Not only has this proved to be the case but on account of the escape of hydrogen cyanide whenever penetration takes place , of the ease with which the test is applied and its extreme delicacy , leaves of plants containing cyanophoric glucosides are , in not a few respects , superior to cereal grains as test objects ; the latter are perhaps best used in determining the effect various solutes have in regulating the extent to which an inflow of water takes place .
* " The Selective Permeability of the Covering of the Seeds of Hordeum , vulgar .
" By Adrian J. Brown .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1909 , vol. 81 , p. 81 ; cf. " The Origin of Osmotic Effects .
II.\#151 ; Differential Septa .
" By Henry E. Armstrong .
Ibid. , p. 94 .
590 Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
[ Apr. 29 , The experiments to be described have been carried out with leaves of the Cherry laurel ( Erunus laurocerasus ) .
These contain which Caldwell and Courtauld have shown to be a mixture in equal proportions of the two isomeric forms of mandelonitrile / 3-glucoside , PhCH(CN)OCeHiiO#.f The glueoside is present not only in the leaves but also in the young stem and the older wood and is always accompanied by an enzyme which can determine its hydrolysis ; the bursting buds in which the leaves are just beginning to unfold are particularly rich in glucoside .
The leaves were gathered during March and the earlier part of April ; they were picked fresh for each experiment ; care was always taken to select uninjured leaves .
In making an experiment , the leaf was placed in a test-tube provided with a sound cork ; the " anaesthetic " in excess .of the quantity required to saturate the air in the tube or sufficient liquid to cover about one-half to two-thirds of the leaf surface was then added and the tube corked ; a slip of slightly moistened picrate paper was introduced together with the cork , which held it in place above the leaf .
In some cases , the end of the leaf stalk was sealed by dipping it into molten paraffin wax .
The tubes were either set aside at the air temperature or incubated at 37 ' .
In presence of chloroform , the yellow test paper became appreciably red within half an hour at 37 ' , within about two hours at room temperatures and within six to eight hours at 0 ' ; the rate of change is therefore about doubled by each 10 ' rise in temperature .
Effect of Vapours.\#151 ; In our first series of experiments , we ascertained that the various " anaesthetics " used could be grouped in classes in the following manner , according to the degree of rapidity which they determined the liberation of hydrogen cyanide:\#151 ; Quickly Active.\#151 ; Ammonia , carbon bisulphide , chloroform , toluene , ether , amylic alcohol , ethylic alcohol , amylic acetate , ethylic acetate .
Moderately quickly Active.\#151 ; Benzene , naphthalene , thymol , acetic acid .
Slowly Active.\#151 ; Carbon dioxide , benzaldehyde , limonene .
Observations were made with most of these substances at room temperatures as well as at 37 ' .
Similar results were obtained by using in place of laurel leaves flax seedlings ( Linum usitatissimum)and currant leaves ( Ribes rubrum ) Effect of Solutions.\#151 ; Sound leaves may be from one-half to two-thirds immersed in water at 37 ' during four or five days or at ordinary temperatures during a much longer , period without hydrogen cyanide becoming apparent .
Dilute solutions of most metallic salts also produce no apparent effect when * H6rissey , ' Compt .
Bend .
, ' 1905 , vol. 141 , p. 959 .
t ' Chem. Soc. Trans. , ' 1907 , vol. 91 , p. 671 .
The Origin of Osmotic Effects .
1910 .
] leaves are kept in contact with them during three or four days ; some stronger solutions and salts of a corrosive nature cause the destruction of the membranes of the leaf and rapidly kill it .
Only a few salts can permeate the differential septa of the leaf and function as cyanogenetics ; these condition the escape not only of hydrogen cyanide but also of reducing sugar , which passes out into the solution ; apparently the membrane breaks down and ultimately the leaf turns brown .
The majority of the experiments with solutions were made at 37 ' ; the conditions under which the leaf was placed were therefore somewhat drastic , so that even substances which did not at first penetrate the tissues sooner or later determined its death by plasmolysis .
Indeed , most salts of the heavy metals gain access after 48 hours .
In concentrated solutions , even inactive substances cause the breakdown of the tissues ; a 50-per-cent , solution of glycerol and a 10-per-cent , solution of sodium chloride , for example , acted in this manner .
The substances referred to above as active as vapours are at least equally active in aqueous solution .
Urea passes slowly into the leaf from a weight-normal solution .
The following salts have been found to function cyanogenetically:\#151 ; Cadmium , Iodide.\#151 ; The activity of an M/ 20 solution* is apparent at the end of about 10 hours ; an M/ 15 solution is active within 6 hours .
Sodium and Potassium Fluorides.\#151 ; In the case of M/ 20 solutions , the effect is obvious after 24 hours ; M/ 2 solutions are active within about 6 hours .
Apparently the potassium salt is the more active .
The result is of special interest , inasmuch as fluorides are used as disinfectants .
Mercuric Chloride.\#151 ; An M/ 20 solution is weakly active within 24 hours ; in M/ 5 solution the action is far more pronounced .
Iodine dissolved in a 5-per-cent , solution of potassium iodide is slowly active .
Ammonium Salts.\#151 ; In M/ 20 solution the activity of the chloride is apparent only after an interval of two days , in the case of the nitrate after 30 hours ; both salts are active in M/ 2 solutions within 20 hours .
Ammonia acts not only as vapour but also in solution ( N/ 4 , U/ 12 and N/ 20 ) , very rapidly causing the leaf to darken in colour ; the picrate paper assumes a deep red colour within two hours .
There can be little doubt that ammonia acts as such , not as the hydroxide , as M/ 10 solutions of sodium hydroxide and carbonate are without effect and an U/ 2 solution of the former is active only after several hours , presumably because the membrane is gradually destroyed .
* The solutions were made of weight-molecular or weight-normal strength or fractions thereof , i.e. the molecular or equivalent proportion in grammes of the substance was dissolved in 1000 grammes of water .
592 Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
[ Apr. 29 , We are therefore inclined to attribute the apparent activity of the two ammonium salts to ammonia liberated by their hydrolysis , as the solutions gradually become distinctly acid to litmus and to phenolphthalein ; it was conceivable that the acidity might have been due to the diffusion of acid from the leaf into the solution but this explanation seems to be precluded by the observation that when the leaf is exposed in a 15-per-cent , solution of alcohol no acid passes into the liquid .
Action of Acids.\#151 ; The leaf septum is affected by acids more readily than is the barley septum , being destroyed by solutions of sulphuric acid of N/ 20 strength and upwards , all of which condition the liberation of hydrogen cyanide .
Ohlorhydric , phosphoric , tartaric and nitric acids are less destructive and do not enter the normal leaf from N/ 2 solutions ; oxalic acid is active and formic , acetic , propiopic and butyric acids pass readily into the leaf from solutions of this strength , lactic acid acts less rapidly than acetic ; benzoic and salicylic acids ( in saturated solutions ) also are quite active .
Boric acid passes slowly into the leaf from M/ 2 and M/ 5 solutions and after 100 hours from M/ 10 solutions .
The following substances are inactive in dilute solutions:\#151 ; In 2-per-cent , solutions\#151 ; Phaseolunatin .
Salicin .
Arbutin .
Amygdalin .
Formaldehyde .
Vanillin ( saturated ) .
In 5-per-cent , solutions-\#151 ; Glycine ( also in 7 per cent. ) .
Asparagine .
Dextrose .
Sucrose .
Glycerol ( 10 per cent. ) .
Sodium acetate .
" borate .
" chloride .
" nitrate .
Potassium borate .
" bromide .
In 5-per-cent , solutions\#151 ; continued .
Potassium iodide .
" phosphate .
Ammonium oxal\amp ; te .
" sulphate .
Copper sulphate .
Barium chloride.* Silver nitrate .
Magnesium sulphate .
In N/ 10 solutions\#151 ; Sodium carbonate .
" bicarbonate .
" hydroxide .
Barium " In M/ 10 solutions\#151 ; Cadmium sulphate .
" chloride .
Mercuric nitrate .
It is clear from our observations , taken in connection with those made by Adrian J. Brown , that all substances are effective which can penetrate the cellular membranes and enter into the circulation .
* Slight action was noticeable on exposing the leaf in a 10-per-cent , solution of this salt during 100 hours .
1910 .
] The Origin of Osmotic Effects .
593 This conclusion is in harmony with that to be drawn from Vinson 's recent observations on " The Stimulation of Premature Eipening by Chemical Means , " the account of which [ published in the February number of the 'Journal of the American Chemical Society ' ( vol. 32 , p. 208 ) ] , reached us only when we had practically completed our experiments .
Vinson 's work relates to the ripening of seedling dates by exposure to various vapours or in solutions .
He has tried over 100 substances .
Those which he finds to be effective , with very few exceptions , are such as we should suppose would be active .
He concludes that the apparent stimulation of ripening depends solely on the killing of the protoplasm\#151 ; that " in broad terms , any substance which will penetrate the cuticle and kill or stimulate the protoplasm , thereby releasing the previously insoluble intracellular enzymes without rendering them inactive , will bring about ripening , provided the fruits have reached a certain necessary degree of maturity .
" The differential septum of the leaf appears to be even more delicately discriminative than is that of the barley grain .
Since Graham 's classical researches on diffusion , it has been customary to distinguish two classes of substances\#151 ; colloids and crystalloids ; it now appears to be desirable to divide the latter broadly into two sub-classes according as they will or will not pass through differential septa such as are met with in the barley grain and the laurel leaf .
Starling has proposed to apply the term " Hormones " ( from op/ xaco , I excite or arouse ) to the chemical messengers , which speed from cell to cell along the blood stream and co-ordinate the activities and growth of different parts of the body ; * and he has already ranked carbon dioxide among the hormones .
It appears to us desirable to apply the term to all substances which pass through membranes such as we have referred to and excite activity within the cell .
As in the case of the barley grain , the entry of the diffusing substance into the leaf appears to condition the more or less rapid entry of water ; the substances which exercise this influence , in both cases , are substances which have but slight attraction for water .
In other words , the hormones are " anhydrophilic " substances ; hydrophilic substances generally fail to penetrate differential septa which are selective to the degree manifest in cereal , grains and the laurel leaf .
It is a most striking fact that substances usually considered to have little , if any , chemical activity should be the most active in initiating enzymic change in the leaf , e.g. toluene , carbon bisulphide , chloroform and ethereal * The Croonian Lectures , on the chemical correlation of the functions of the body , delivered before the Royal College of Surgeons , June , 1905.\#151 ; The Lancet .
' 594 Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
[ Apr. 29 , salts .
It can scarcely be supposed that such substances directly determine the liberation of the enzyme from the protoplasm\#151 ; in other words , that initially action takes place merely because of the breakdown of a zymogen under their immediate influence .
It is generally considered that , in plant tissues , enzyme and glucoside are either contained in different cells or in different vacuoles in the same eell .
According to Guignard , * in the cherry laurel the enzyme is stored in the endodermis of the veins ; the glucoside is distributed in the parenchyma of the leaf .
Even if the enzyme were liberated , it is improbable that it would travel any distance or through a cellular membrane .
It is more likely that the glucoside is caused to travel to the enzyme ; in such an event , the enzyme might still be active while forming part of the protoplasmic complex , if it were exposed at the surface .
We gather that this is the view held by Guignard , as after calling attention to cases in which drops of liquid appear on the surface of the leaf exposed to the anaesthetic , he proceeds to say:\#151 ; " On peut done dire que le contenu cellulaire subit une veritable deshydra-tation , puisqu'une partie du liquide passe k l'ext4rieur de la cellule .
" De meme , dans le cas des plantes glucosides , tels que le myronate -de potassium ou l'amygdaline , ces principes sont entraines avec l'eau qui les tient en solution et arrivent au contact des ferments , localises dans des oellules spdciales : d'od le d^doublement produisant soit de Fessence de moutarde , soit de l'acide cyanhydrique .
" And , in summarising his observations , he remarks:\#151 ; " II y a lk , en somme , une m4thode g4n4rale de recherche de certains .composes dont la formation r^sulte de faction r^ciproque d'un ferment et d'un glucoside arrivant au contact Fun de Fautre par l'interm^diare de Feau .
Les observations deM .
Mirande sont un exemple trksinteressantde son application k la recherche des plantes k acide cyanhydrique .
" But it appears to us to be necessary to go somewhat further .
Modern experience would lead us to suppose that , in the living cell , the formation of various hydrolytes is promoted by sympathetic hydrolysts under conditions of concentration which are unfavourable to the occurrence of hydrolysis ; from this point of view , the conditions of concentration in the cells should entirely determine the process of change in either the one or the other direction\#151 ; that of hydrolysis or the reverse .
In the case of the laurel leaf , we have no hesitation in attributing the liberation of hydrogen cyanide by neutral substances which enter as vapours , primarily , to the influence these exercise in causing alterations in concentration * ' Journal de Botanique , ' 1890 , vol. 4 , p. 3 .
1910 .
] The Origin of Osmotic Effects .
of the fluids within the leaf , these alterations being of such nature that the glucoside is thereby brought effectively into contact with the enzyme under conditions which favour hydrolysis .
All substances which gain access to the cell must have this effect in some degree .
Initially , such changes need not cause any breakdown of the leaf system and may be merely stimulative , or in some cases , perhaps , inhibitive ; they cannot continue long , however , without damage to the protoplasmic mechanism and in isolated tissues must soon pass beyond the stage when recovery is possible\#151 ; the more so because the effect is cumulative , owing to the influence exercised by the products of change in changing the osmotic state .
From this point of view , it is highly significant that two of the products into which the glucoside prulaurasin is resolved , hydrogen cyanide and benzaldehyde , which pass into the leaf as vapours when used as anaesthetics , both condition the breakdown ; obviously , if this were due primarily to some chemical interaction , it would scarcely be initiated by the products of change .
Benzaldehyde , being only slightly volatile , is only slowly active but when a laurel leaf is exposed in a moist atmosphere of hydrogen cyanide , it becomes olive brown within 24 hours .
It is even more striking that the effect is produced by carbon dioxide ; when leaves are set aside under precisely similar conditions in corked tubes containing air and carbon dioxide ( carefully purified by passage through water and through tightly packed moist cotton-wool scrubbers ) respectively , in every case those in the latter gas are the first to turn brown ; hydrogen cyanide is given off but the change is manifest only after three or four days , or even longer .
An aqueous solution of the gas is somewhat more active .
As freshly picked leaves are found to contain as much as 60 per cent , of water , there is no difficulty in accounting for the presence in leaves of sufficient water to pass from one region to another .
The fact that the region in which the enzyme is present is a favoured region , in that the solution flows towards it , is perhaps a consequence of the position occupied by the enzyme close to the exterior surface at which the hormone enters and towards which , therefore , the flux of water is necessarily determined .
It is questionable whether when water enters alone it be active in determining change ; in any case , the mechanical action of the entering substance is probably not confined to the water in the cell ; the issue thus raised , however , is one which we do not propose to consider until we have completed experiments bearing on the problem .
In the case of substances which enter from solution , water passes into the leaf together with the substance which was dissolved in it .
To determine the extent to which water is absorbed , leaves which had been soaked in VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; B. 2 Y V 596 Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
[ Apr. 29 , distilled water during 15 minutes were carefully dried between paper and weighed ; they were then one-half to two-thirds immersed in solutions of the substances tested\#151 ; control leaves being immersed in distilled water under similar conditions .
After the required period these leaves were removed , dried as before and weighed .
The results obtained are collected in the following table:\#151 ; Treatment .
Increase in weight .
Per cent. 18 hours in water 4 -6 24 " " 5 -0 18 " in chloroform water 19 -6 jj 5\gt ; ) ) ... ./ * .
; 17 -0 72 " in a solution of carbon dioxide made from 12 -1 marble and acid 72 " in a solution of carbon dioxide taken from 11 -5 a " sparklet " bottle 72 " in 3 per cent , sodium fluoride 11 -1 48 " in 2 , , " chloride 2 -0 72 " in 2 " " " 2 -8 72 " in water saturated with coal gas 4-9 Obviously water enters freely only when active substances are present .
'The appearance of the leaf indicated when water had entered , the veins being tswollen .
Hydrogen cyanide was liberated only from leaves immersed in chloroform , carbon dioxide and sodium fluoride .
More concentrated solutions of sodium chloride have the contrary effect and withdraw water from the leaf .
Thus a leaf immersed during 24 hours at the ordinary temperature in a 10-per-cent , solution weighed 2-098 grammes before and 2-077 grammes after treatment , corresponding to a loss of 1 per cent. Hydrogen cyanide was evolved but the leaf remained green .
When leaves are stimulated , not only is hydrogen cyanide liberated and more or less water absorbed but the amount of " reducing sugar " in the leaf is also increased , owing to the breakdown of the glucoside and of other hydrolytes such as cane sugar .
To estimate this change the leaf was cut into small pieces , quickly weighed and extracted with successive small quantities of boiling water so as to put all enzymes out of action as rapidly as possible .
Dextrose was estimated gravimetrically in the aqueous extract .
The amount of reducing sugar in fresh laurel leaves was determined at frequent intervals during the experiments ; it varied from 3 to 3-6 per cent. The following figures show the alteration produced by anaesthetics 1910 .
] The Origin of Osmotic Effects .
Reducing sugar .
Per cent. Chloroform* 5T3 Another leaf 4*24 Hydrogen cyanide 5 *4 Another leaf 5*77 Carbon dioxide 3 -8 * The action of chloroform in causing the formation of reducing sugar has also been observed in ivy leaves , which contain neither cyanophoric glucoside nor / 3-enzyme .
Whereas freshly picked leaves contained only 3*04 per cent. , after treatment 6*24 per cent , of reducing sugar was found to be present .
The breakdown of the leaf is also attended by a marked development of the characteristic odour faintly perceived in leaves in which no action has taken place .
A similar development of aroma , accompanied by browning of the leaf , was observed when leaves of the two varieties of laurel , Laurus nobilis and Cerasus lusitanica , which contain neither glucoside nor / 3-enzyme , were acted on by chloroform .
The browning may be regarded as an indication that even the oxydases are brought into action .
To study the manner in which substances gain entry , parallel experiments were made in which the upper or lower surface was moistened with solutions which it had been found were able to penetrate into the leaf ; such are cadmium iodide , sodium fluoride , acetic acid and mercuric chloride .
In every case , action was most pronounced and took place sooner when the lower surface of the laurel leaf was treated but was also noticeable when the upper surface alone was moistened .
Owing to its waxy nature the upper surface cannot well be wetted properly and liquid easily passes to the lower surface ; recently we have overcome this difficulty by applying wetted strips of bibulous paper to the leaf surface ; from the results obtained in this manner we judge that the upper surface is impermeable .
A macroscopic study of the leaf whilst change is taking place in a solution of carbon dioxide reveals at first the appearance of little dots of dark green on the under surface of the leaf ; these areas next become brown ; subsequently the brown spreads until it uniformly covers both sides of the leaf ; at the same time the veins become swollen and very conspicuous on the under side .
If a leaf be immersed in a dilute solution of methylene blue , it becomes stained locally , a series of small blue dots appearing on the under surface precisely similar to the dark green dots mentioned above .
Hydrogen cyanide is not liberated in this case ; apparently the dye stuff is laid down entirely at the surfaces of entry .
The explanation we have advanced involves the assumption that in all cases in which growth is promoted or a stimulative effect exercised , even by a substance to which merely " mechanical " activity can be ascribed , the concentration is lowered to a point which is either favourable to a change previously only in the potential stage , or more favourable to one already in operation .
598 Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
[ Apr. 29 , But such agents often exercise an anesthetic and even a lethal effect if their action be prolonged\#151 ; how is this to be accounted for ?
In plants , anesthesia is shown by the cessation of protoplasmic movements\#151 ; as in the well-known case of Elodea canadensis , for example .
Attention has been drawn by Parmer and Waller* to the effect which carbon dioxide , ether and chloroform have in checking the protoplasmic currents in this plant in comparison with that produced by them in depriving muscle of the power of responding to stimulation .
In neither case is the inhibitive effect permanent , recovery following the removal of the vapour .
We would venture to attribute the movements in Elodea to molecular interactions consequent on the assimilative activity of the protoplasmic complex .
In an assimilating vegetable cell , the osmotic tension must be subject to continual change as molecules of carbon dioxide and other simple materials are removed from solution and are raised to various levels of complexity ; as such molecules disappear from solution , others diffuse in from outside sources .
The more complex molecules that come into being are in part rendered more or less nearly inoperative by incorporation in the protoplasmic complex but some are highly attractive of water , as are also the products of the down grade changes which occur concurrently with the synthetic operations .
The consequence of all these changes is that the solvent water in the cells is in the constant state of flux pictured in the expression ( H20)z^^H20 ; the movements of the protoplasm are presumably conditioned by the numerous exchanges which take place between the hydrolated colloid surfaces and the solution .
The stoppage of movements by substances which act as anaesthetics may be ascribed to the increase of osmotic tension which these condition in the solution and the consequent balance of the attraction previously existing between the protoplasmic mass ( the spongio-plasm ) and the liquid .
In the case of muscular tissue , far reaching effects must be produced by the translocation of water consequent on the passage of diffusible substances into the various cellular elements ; at first this should stimulate change , much as in the case of the laurel leaf , by promoting enzymic interactions ; after a time , as the amount of material capable of undergoing such changes became reduced , however , the excitant would lose its influence and osmotic equilibrium would soon be restored .
The normal activity of muscle may be regarded as at least largely determined by and consequent upon the movement of water within its substance .
One , if not the chief , effect of electiical stimulation on unexhausted muscle presumably is to cause the liberation here and there of products of electrolysis which serve to direct an influx of * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1898 , vol. 63 , p. 213 .
1.910 , ] The Origin of Osmotic Effects .
water into certain regions , giving rise to local expansions which determine the shortening of the fibres ; but when the osmotic tension within the cell is raised by these to a certain maximum , an increase of the excitant would tend to determine an outflow rather than an influx of fluid ; at this stage electric stimulation would have little effect .
The argument may even be extended to the explanation of the phenomenon of narcosis in general , including sleep .
In saying this , we are aware that physiologists have deprecated the comparison of sleep with the condition induced by anaesthetics .
Thus , according to Halliburton , * " the sleep of anaesthesia is a pathological condition due to the action of a poison .
The drug reduces the chemico-vital activities of the cells and is , in a sense , dependent on an increasing condition of exhaustion , which may culminate in death .
Normal sleep , on the other hand , is not produced by a poison or at any rate we have no evidence of any poison ; it is the normal manifestation of one stage in the rhythmical activity of nerve-cells and though it may be preceded by fatigue or exhaustion it is accompanied by repair , the constructive side of metabolic activity .
" But such statements raise many questions .
It may be asked : What is a poison ?
How does a poison act ?
What are chemico-vital activities ?
These must be answered before it can be asserted that sleep is not produced by a poison .
It has been observed that in deeply anaesthetised animals the dendrites of the nerve-cells exhibit thickenings or moniliform swellings ; hence it has been inferred\#151 ; to quote Halliburton ( p. 740)\#151 ; that " in the waking state , the neighbouring nerve units are in contact with each other ; transmission of nerve impulses from neuron to neuron is then possible and the result is consciousness ; during sleep the dendrites are retracted in an amoeboid manner ; the neurons are therefore separated and the result is unconsciousness .
" Suppose that a poison such as hydrogen cyanide were to penetrate rapidly into the nerve-cells , such swellings might well take place in the main body of the cell and elsewhere , in consequence of the influx of water conditioned by the presence of the " poison " within the cells ; in elongated cells this influx would cause a reduction of length along the major axis and might well determine the retraction of the dendrites .
Such a messenger ( Hormone ) would interrupt communication in the nervous system instead of promoting it .
Fatigue diminishes the readiness of the central nervous system to respond to nervous stimuli ; presumably , however , fatigue is conditioned not merely by the exhaustion of the supply of changeable material but is also conse-* * Physiology , ' 9th edition , 1909 , p. 742 .
600 Prof. H. E. Armstrong and Dr. E. F. Armstrong .
[ Apr. 29 , quent on the production during muscular exertion of diffusible materials ( carbonic acid , lactic acid , etc. ) , the presence of which will necessarily determine the flow of water into the cells in which they are formed\#151 ; such substances may well be ranked as poisons , as their effect would be to cause the separation of the neurons contemplated above .
During sleep such substances would not only be removed but sooner or later synthetic changes would also set in and prevail , so that gradually the osmotic tension would be relieved and the neurons would again be brought into normal relationship .
A similar explanation may be applied to the regulation of respiration in animals .
As Haldane and Priestly* have shown , even a very slight rise or fall in the partial pressure of the carbon dioxide in alveolar air causes a great increase or diminution , as the case may be , in the alveolar ventilation , the respiratory centre being exquisitely sensitive to any rise in the pressure of the carbon dioxide .
All the available evidence , it is said , points to the conclusion that the arterial blood alone furnishes the connection with the respiratory centre and is the carrier of the stimuli .
While prepared to agree that carbon dioxide is the normal stimulant , we are of opinion that such substances as lactic acid\#151 ; indeed , all the products of * fatigue " which can function as hormones\#151 ; must contribute to the effect .
The physiological effect of alcohol , of drugs such as caffeine , indeed , of most drugs , of flavours and odours as well as that of the presence of more or less digested food in inducing the liberation of the required enzymes in the several regions of the digestive tract , in fact , the effect of hormones generally , is more or less completely accounted for by our hypothesis .
Hot a few drugs and selective hormones such as adrenaline must exercise , in addition , special effects in virtue of their affinity to certain regions^ and it may be that their action is in part inhibitive\#151 ; similar to that which is exercised by a carbohydrate material " sympathetic " with a given sucroclastic enzyme in retarding the hydrolytic activity of the enzyme .
But we prefer to postpone the discussion of these problems until we are able to offer further evidence bearing directly on the subject that experiments we have in contemplation may be expected to furnish .
The activity of substances which function as hcemoclasts ( hsemolysins ) and bacterioclasts ( bacteriolysins ) is probably to be explained without difficulty from our point of view .
* 'Journal of Physiology , ' 1905 , vol. 32 , p. 225 .
t The reason why chloroform and alcohol , for example , affect certain regions preferentially\#151 ; brain and nerve cells\#151 ; is probably not far to seek : solvent and solute must always be reciprocally attractive ; as the regions specified are rich in fatty matters , of which alcohol and chloroform are special solvents , they are doubtless specifically attractive of such substances , so that these tend to accumulate in them .
1910 .
] The Origin of Osmotic Effects .
601 One other case we may refer to\#151 ; that afforded by the fell disease , .
Diabetes .
It is apparently impossible to account for the disposal of the whole of the sugar derived from the digestion of food on the assumption that it all passes as such directly into the circulation , the amount present in-normal blood being always very small and subject to but slight variation .
The veteran student of this subject , Pavy , has suggested* that as dextrose ' passes from the digestive tract into the lymphatic system it becomes attached to the lymphocytes ; by these it is carried into the blood stream in a hidden form , ready to be liberated whenever and wherever required .
The explanation is entirely rational .
Assuming it to be correct , the association of dextrose with the lymphocytes must be dependent on a certain high minimum concentration of the lymph ; if anything occurred to reduce the concentration below this minimum , the synthetic action would be inhibited and the dextrose would enter as such into the circulation .
It is conceivable-that the disease is conditioned by the presence of some hormone which determines a reduction in the concentration of the lymphatic fluid .
It is at least worth while to study the problem from this point of view .
It is to be supposed that hormones exercise a determining influence in regulating metabolism in plants as well as in animals ; f Obviously , there are many directions in which our hypothesis may be usefully applied .
Stated briefly , it is that substances generally which are not attractive to water when introduced into the living cell exercise stimulative effects which are primarily mechanical , as the effects are produced by the interposition of the hormone molecules between the molecules of liquid in the cell ; as such interposition , however , at once alters the osmotic state by promoting dissociative chemical change in the water in the direction ( HsO)* \#151 ; \#187 ; aH20 , the activity of the medium is raised and the equilibrium disturbed , so that an influx of water from other regions sets in .
It may be that often the mere dilution thus effected is determinative of change .
In some cases contact becomes established between hydrolyte and hydrolyst , by the former passing to the surface at which the hormone is at first effective and which happens to be the seat of the hydrolyst ; degenerative changes are thereby set up which tend to increase in intensity , as the products of change in turn exercise a similar stimulative influence and enzymes are gradually set free which can attack the various hydrolytes stored in the cell.j : Under * The Lancet , ' November 21 and 28 , December 12 , 1908 .
t This section is perforce omitted to shorten the communication .
x The experiments made by Yernon ( cf. 'Intracellular Enzymes , ' London , John Murray , 1908 ) are of special interest in this connection .
According to this observer , the mammalian heart or kidney may be perfused with the saline solution used by 602 Prof. Macallum .
Inorganic Composition of the [ June 23 , normal conditions , the products of change pass into circulation and are gradually eliminated , either because they are assimilated elsewhere or because they are excreted .
There are undoubtedly other effects to be taken into account but we reserve the discussion of these until we are able to deal with them on an experimental basis .
The Inorganic Composition of the Blood in Vertebrates and Invertebrates , and its Origin .
By Prof. A. B. Macallum , Ph. D. , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , of the University of Toronto .
( Received June 23 , \#151 ; Read June 30 , 1910 .
) I.\#151 ; Introduction .
The first suggestion bearing on the origin of the inorganic composition of the blood of animals was that made by Bunge , * who , pointing out that we have inherited the notochord and the branchial clefts from marine ancestors , asked why the high percentage of sodium chloride in our tissues should not be an heirloom from life in the sea of that remote past .
Eight years later R. Quintonf enunciated the view that in the great majority of animal organisms the internal medium , the circulatory fluid , or haemolymph , is from its inorganic composition but sea water .
In support of this he advanced a number of facts bearing on the composition of the internal medium of animals as compared with the composition of sea water , but the parallelism was only in a few instances extended beyond the amounts of sodium chloride in the two media .
This viewr he unfortunately overlaid with a number of speculations , some of which prejudiced its acceptance amongst physiologists and biologists , and in consequence it did not attain the currency to which it was entitled , In 1903 , in discussing the inorganic composition of certain Medusae the physiologists without suffering material change ; if however , the solution be saturated with chloroform or ether , the tissue breaks down very rapidly , the proteins passing into solution .
The only agent comparable in disintegrating effect with chloroform and ether is ammonia , according to Yernon .
* ' Lehrbuch der Physi'ologischen und Pathologischen Chemie , ' Leipzig , 1889 , pp. 120 and 121 .
t ' Comptes Eendus Soc. de Biol. , ' 1896 , 1897 , 1898 , 1899 .
' Comptes Kendus Acad. Sci. , ' vol , 131 , pp. 905 and 952 .
Also " L'Eau de Mer Milieu Organique , " Paris , 1904 .

