]\gt ; Ship stance .
In conclusion , I wish to express my thanks to Dr. Hutchinson , who has supplied from the mineralogical collection at Cambridge most of the crystals required for these investigations .
For a quantitative comparison of spectra intensities fine specimens of the various crystals are a necessity , and it is due to his kindness that such specimens could be used .
To Mr. Pierce I am indebted for much assistance with the observations .
I have also to thank the authorities of the University of Leeds for permission to carry out the experiments in the Physical Laboratories , where I had the opportunity of working with one of the -ray spectrometers .
Ship Resistance : The Properties of relling Pressure By T. H. HAVELOCK , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Armstrong College , Newcastle-on-Tyne .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , F.R.S. Received October 7 , \mdash ; Read November 27 , 1913 .
) 1 .
In previous papers*I have investigated the wave-making resistance of a ship by comparing it with a certain simple type of pressure disturbance travelling over the surface of the water .
In a recent paper on the effect of form and size on the resistance of ships , by Messrs. Baker and Kent of the National Physical Laboratory , reference is made to this point of view .
The main work of these authors consists in the examination of model results and the deduction of empirical formula of practical value .
In addition , they connect the wave-making properties with the pressure distribution and have obtained graphs of the latter for various ship forms under certain conditions ; these curves show a range of ative pressure , or defect of pressure , between the positive humps of excess pressure corresponding to the bow and stern .
The authors remark that this will have an effect upon the wave-making , but conclude that it is sufficient for their purpose to be able to state that such pressure disturbances , as they have shown to exist when a ship is in motion , will produce waves which will vary more or less in accordance with the referoed to above .
Under the circumstances it seems advisable to extend the mathematical ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1909 , , vol. 82 , p. 276 ; also 1910 , , vol. 84 , ; ' Proc. Univ. Durh .
Phil. Soc 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 215 . .
S. Baker and A. L. Kent , ' Inst. Nav .
Arch June , 1913 .
Dr. T. H. Havelock .
theory by working out the wave-making properties of other distributions of pressure .
Although no attempt has been made to connect the distribution directly with ship form , the following examples have been chosen with a view to general inferences which can be drawn in this respect .
In particular , the distributions graphed by Baker and Kent can be represented , in type at least , by a mathematical expression for which the corresponding Fourier integral can be evaluated , so that one can compare the result with that obtained from simpler forms .
Although the expression for the wave-making resistance becomes more complicated , it is not essentially different from that obtained previously ; it appears in general to be built up of terms involving the same type of exponential , together with oscillating factors representing interference effects between prominent features of the pressure distribution .
2 .
We confine our attention to two-dimensional fluid motion .
We may imagine it to be produced in a deep canal of unit breadth , with verticalsides , by the horizontal motion of a floating pontoon with plane sides fitting closely to the walls of the canal but without friction .
We assume that , as regards transverse wave-making , this is effectively equivalent to some travelling distribution of pressure impressed upon the surface of the water .
Let Ox be in the direction of motion of the disturbance , and let be the surface elevation of the water .
Suppose the distribution of pressure to be given by .
( 1 ) For a line distribution we may suppose the disturbance to be inappreciable except near the origin and to be concentrated there in such a manner that the integral pressure is finite , where .
( 2 ) When this disturbance moves along the surface of water , of density , with velocity , the main part of the surface disturbance consists of a regular train of waves in the rear given by , ( 3 ) where the length of the waves is We can generalise this result for any form of pressure distribution , which is likely to occur , by the Fourier method .
We have in general , ( 5 ) Ship Resistance .
where .
( 6 ) The mean energy per unit area of the wave mofion given by ( 5 ) is .
Now head of the disturbance advances with velocity while the rate of flow of energy in the train of waves is the group velocity ; hence the net rate of gain of energy per unit area is times the above expression for the energy .
If we equate this product to , then may be called the wave-making resistance per unit breadth ; and we have We have in each case to evaluate the complex integral .
( 8 ) In the examples which follow , the inteo.ralo has a finite , definite value which can be obtained in Cauchy 's manner by integrating round a closed simple contour in the plane of the complex variable .
The function is such thab ( i ) it has no critical points other than simple poles in the semi-infinite plane situated above the real axis for ; ( ii ) it has no critical points on the real axis ; and ( iii ) its value tends to zero as becomes infinite .
Further , the quantity is restricted to real , positive values .
Under these conditions it can be shown*that where is the sum of the residues of the integrand at the poles of situated above the real axis .
If is a pole , A is given by the value of when .
Alternatively , in the following examples is of the form , none of the zeros of coinciding with those of , and A is given by .
3 .
For the sake of comparison the results which have been obtained previously may be repeated briefly .
If the poles are at , of which the positive one alone concerns us .
Hence we have .
( 10 ) Hence from 7 ) .
( 11 ) * Jordan , ' Course d'Analyse , ' vol. 2 , S270 .
Cf .
Lamb , ' Hydrodynamics , ' p. 391 .
Dr. T. H. Havelock .
If A is a constant and independent of the speed , the graph of as a function of rises to a maximum and then falls slowly but continually to zero as increases indefinitely .
Thus , for an assigned pressure disturbance of this type whose nibude is independent of the speed , there is a certain speed beyond which the resistance continually decreases .
On the other hand , if the pressure disturbance is that produced by the motion of a floating , or submerged , body , it is clear that it will depend upon the speed .
Since we may suppose the pressures in question to be the excess or defect of pressure due to the speed , it seems a plausible first approximation to assume that the distribution is not altered appreciably in type and that the magnitude is propoltional to .
Thus if in ( 11 ) we make A proportional to we obtain const. .
( 12 ) The value of now tends to a finite limiting value as increases indefinitely .
If the quantity , specifying the magnitude of the pressure disturbance , varies as , then the graph of rises to a maximum for some finite value of , provided is positive and less than 2 ; the nearer is to 2 the higher is the speed at which the maximum occurs .
For the present we assume that is equal to 2 ; in any case it does not affect the results of a qualitative comparison of different types of distribution .
The scope of the assumption may be illustrated by a certain case .
Prof. Lamb* has worked out directly the wave-making resistance due to a circular cylinder of small radius , submerged with its centre at a constant depth , and moving with uniform velocity ; he finds that varies with the speed according to the law If we attempt to represent the disturbance approximately by some equivalent surface pressure distribution , the type which gests itself naturally is It can be that this distribution , together with the assumption that A is proportional to , leads to the same law of variation of resistance with speed .
4 .
In a certain sense the generalisation from a line disturbance to any diffused distribution of pressure may be regarded analytically as a case of interference ; the final result is due to the mutual interference of the line elements into which we analyse the given distribution .
However , the idea of interference in ship waves has usually been associated , after the work * H. Lamb , ' Ann. di Matematica , ' vol. 21 , Ser. 3 , p. 237 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 82 , p. 300 .
Ship of W. Froude , with the superposition of bow and stern wave-systems , that is , when the whole system may be separated into two fairly distinct parts .
I have represented this previously by a positive pressure system of type ( 9 ) associated with the bow , followed by a similar negative system associated with the middle of the run .
Thus if is the distance between the centres of the two systems we have in the present notation Substituting in ( 8 ) and evaluating the rals we find Hence from ( 7 ) .
( 14 ) The graph of is a mean curve similar to ( 12 ) with oscillations superposed upon it , humps and hollows to minima and maxima of or .
It is of interest to note that if and are equal , we have const . .
( 15 ) Thus , in a hollow , would be actually zero if the two pressure systems were equal in magnitude .
This , of course , follows at once from eneral principles ; if we have a pressure system followed at a fixed distance by an equal and similar system , then there are certain wave-lengths and corresponding speeds for which the main regular waves due to the two systems cancel each other out exactly .
A moving body which would produce such a state of affairs would be , in Lord Kelvin 's phrase , a waveless pontoon .
Of course , this does not occur in ship forms , and there are several reasons why it could not be expected to do so .
In fact we have in general to suppose much less than in .
However , it is conceivable that some change of form might give more effective interference effects of this kind and so deepen the hollows in the resistance curve , though possibly as a practical suggestion it may be subject to the same limitation as in other cases , namely , even if the wave-making resistance , lessened in this way probably the alterations would so increase frictioIJal and other resistances that there be no ooain on the whole .
5 .
Baker and Kent have pointed out that in certain cases the pressure distribution at the entrance of a ship form is not simply a hump of excess pressure , but is a hump followed by a hollow of negative pressure .
They assign to the interference of these two parts a certain subsidiary interference effect in the resistance which may become important when it coincides with Dr. T. H. Havelock .
one due to the bow and stern systems .
This follows on general grounds , and might be represented analytically as in S4 , but it is worth while examining other distl.ibutions with this character .
In the first place consider one which does not give the desired interference effect , namely , .
( 16 ) The graph has been drawn for certain numerical values of the constants and is curve A in fig. 1 .
We have Hence , from ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) , ; ; We have here the same form for as a function of as in ( 11 ) for the single hump of positive pressure ; we do not get the interference effect which might have been expected .
This may be explained by remarking that the pressure falls away from the maximum only slowly ; in other words , the hump and hollow are not sufficiently pronounced for their individuality to show directly in the final formula .
In the previous section , where the distribution is instead of , the maximum and minimum are more pronounced and we a typical oscillating term in the final result .
This view may be confirmed by another example .
6 .
Consider ( 18 ) This distribution is graphed in curve of fig. 1 , arranged so as to have the same minimum and maximum as for ( 16 ) ; the curves A and illustrate Ship clearly the difference in question .
Numerically , if is the position of the maximum , at the value of from ( 16 ) has fallen to of the maximum , while from ( 18 ) it has fallen to 1/ 7 of the same value .
The poles of the function in ( 18 ) are ; thus from ( 8 ) we have The wave-making resistance , , is given by .
( 19 ) We have now the oscillating factor .
There will be , for instance , hump on the resistance curve when , that is , when the half wavelength is equal to .
It may be noticed that this is nearly , but not exactly , the distance between the maximum and minimum of ; from ( 18 ) it follows that the latter distance is , or approximately We also have exactly zero in the hollows in the resistance curve , a result which follows from the numerical equality of the positive and tive pressures at equal distances from the origin .
We can make the pressures less by considering an unsymmetrical distribution .
7 .
Let the pressure be .
( 20 ) In this case the raph would be as in , with the curve for positive and the curve for negative values .
If the poles of ( 20 ) are and , we have In forming the function by the previous method we have two parts .
The part for the pole is .
( 22 ) Dr. T. H. Havelock .
There is also a similar expression corresponding to the pole ; from ( 21 ) we see that the result can be written in .
the form Hence for the resistance we have , from ( 7 ) , We notice how the presence of the smaller negative pressure complicates the mathematical expressions .
On the other hand , all the terms are of the same type as in simpler cases ; we have three terms involving the same exponential function , the third having an oscillating factor , where .
( 24 ) The humps and hollows on the curve for will not coincide exactly with those obtained by graphing , with but the agreement will be sufficiently close for present purposes .
, the maxima for will be near speeds for which The corresponding speeds and wave-lengths are given by ; ( 25 ) In the previous case of symmetry , with the result in ( 19 ) , the humps occur at wave-lengths , that is when the wave-length is equal to or an odd sub-multiple of a certain length ; a similar statement in terms of velocity brings in the series 1 , , etc. In the present case we see from ( 24 ) that this arrangement is somewhat disturbed by the presence of the phase , a quantity which may possibly be small compared with .
A complete algebraical study might be made , but possibly a simpler way would be to start from a graph of the pressure curve and carry out the rationsc , involved in ( 8 ) by graphical methods .
We can also obtain information by working out some numerical examples ; one may suffice at present , namely , The pressure curve is of the form , shown in fig. 1 , with ; Further , with the previous notation , Ship Resistance .
Working out the numerical values from ( 22 ) we obtain for the resistance , omitting a constant factor , with We verify that in this case is , in fact , very small , consequently the simple relation between speeds at which there are humps is not appreciably altered .
The absolute position of these humps on the curve may be slightly displaced .
For instance , the final hump occurs when is equal to , that is when the half wave-length is equal to 10 ; on the other hand , the distance between the maximum and minimum on the pressure curve is units .
8 .
We turn now to more complicated distributions of pressure similar to those obtained by Baker and Kent , to which reference has already been made .
We can build up a rational algebraic fraction which has at least the salient features of these curves ; for instance , the graph of fig. 2 is represented by , ( 28 ) where and are constants .
We have , on the curve , OA , OB , OF .
With different values of and , one could obtain variations in the relative prominence of OF compared with , and in other features .
If the roots of the denominator in ( 28 ) are , we have ( 29 ) Using these relations in evaluating the integral , we obtain Ship Resistance .
On simplification this leads to .
Hence from ( 7 ) the corresponding resistance is given by , ( 30 ) with We have in ( 30 ) a form very similar to those we have already studied .
The phase means a bodily displacement of the series of humps and hollows ; but , is small under the usual circumstances , when the difference between and is small compared with either .
Further , because of the symmetry of the distribution fore and aft , there are values of , with corresponding speeds , for which is zero ; we have seen that to avoid this result we must suppose the magnitude of the pressure to be less in the vicinity of the run than at the entrance .
We could introduce this want of symmetry by considering ( 31 ) In the expression for the integral we should have a part corresponding to each of the poles and in consequence , the resistance would be similar in form to the expression in ( 23 ) .
From ( 30 ) we notice that the corresponding to humps on the resistance curve are submultiples of ; also when and are nearly equal , is of the order , the distance between the two positive pressure humps .
The typical interference effects in this example are due to the interference of the bow and stern systems ; in order to get a secondary interference effect between the positive and negative parts at the bow these must have separate individuality to a greater degree , as we saw in S5 .
For instance , we could consider two distributions like ( 20 ) , one associated with the entrance , the other reversed and associated with the run ; we should then have a very general type of distribution represented by .
( 32 ) It is unnecessary to graph this or to put down expressions for and B. We should obtain a sum of expressions like ( 23 ) involving sines and cosines of and of , and , in addition , of .
There would be in general various possibilities of subsidiary interference effects ; the main one would be the bow and stern interference represented by , and the next in importance that between the positive and negative parts at the bow represented by There would also be the possibility of these two effects adding together at certain speeds .
Production of or Helium .
9 .
One could obtain more maxima , or increased waviness , in the pressure curve by introducing higher powers of into the fractions we have used .
With the same general method for evaluating the integral it follows that we should obtain expressions of the same type , only more complicated in form .
The various examples which have been studied cover a wide range of distributions of the type which one would expect to be associated with the motion of a ship , in respect to the formation of transverse waves .
It may be said that the corresponding resistance curves do not differ essentially from those obtained from a simple distribution , only with the introduction of additional coefficients there is possible a wider range of variation .
Attempts to the Production of Neon or Helium by Etectric Discharge .
By the Hon. B. J. , Sc. D. , F.B.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College , South ICensington .
( Received and read December 11 , 1913 .
) S1 .
Introduction .
Very general interest has been aroused by the observations of Collie and Patterson on the above subject.* It is understood that their results have been endorsed by Sir W. Ramsay from independent evidence .
The present experiments were begun in the hope of confirming the work of Collie and Patterson and of sharing in the interesting field of research thus opened up .
The results , however , have been negative , whether from a failure to appreciate the proper conditions for the production of neon or from some other cause .
There is no difficulty whatever in detecting helium or neon when isolated in approximate purity , and that the authors cited can have been deceived in the identification of these substances may safely be declared impossible .
The only real doubt is as to where the neon or helium came from .
Very small quantities of air contain enough neon spectroscopic detection .
Some years ago I that 1/ 10 .
was enough .
Rutherford and afterwards succeeded with 1/ 15 .
of air , and in the present paper ' Trans. Chem. Soc 1913 , vol. 103 , p. 419 , and ' Proc. Chem. Soc 1913 , vol. 29 , p. 217 .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1908 , , vol. 80 , p. 593 .
Phil. Mag 1908 , vol. 16 , p. 813 .
VOL. LXXXIX.\mdash ; A. 2

