A paper was in part read , entitled , " On the connexion between the Phenomena of the absorption of Light and the Colours of thin Plates .
" By Sir David Brewster , K.H. , F.R.S. spectrum is observed to be crossed throughout its whole extent with alternate dark and coloured bands , increasing in number and diminishing in magnitude with the thickness of its plate .
In the phenomena of periodical colours there are three peculiarities demanding notice ; first , that the dark lines change their places by varying the inclination of the plate ; secondly , that two or more lines never coalesce into one - , and thirdly , that the colour of the luminous bands in the complementary spectrum are the same as those of the original spectrum when the thin plate is perfectly colourless .
The author institutes a comparison of these phenomena with those of absorption as exhibited by a solid , a fluid , and a gaseous body ; employing as an example of the first , smalt blue glass ; of the second , the green sap of vegetables ; and of the third , nitrous acid gas .
No connecting link between these phenomena appeared to exist , excepting that both exhibited a divided or mutilated spectrum ; but even this com ?
mon fact has not the same character in both .
The nacreous substance described by Mr. Horner , however , in some cases , when the plates were small , was found to produce bands perfectly identical with those of thin plates j while in other cases the bands were exactly similar to those of coloured media .
By employing the iridescent films of decomposed glass , the author obtained combinations of films which gave , by transmitted light , the most rich and splendid colours , surpassing every thing he had previously seen among the colours either of na ?
ture or of art .
These facts have proved that the transmitted colours , though wholly unlike those of thin plates , are yet produced by the same causes , and are residuary , and generally complementary to the sum of the reflected tints .
Thus the author has succeeded in completely identifying in their primary features the two classes of facts ; the one resulting from absorption , the other from periodic action .
The minor points of difference , namely , the uniformity of the bands and tints of absorbing media at all incidences , and the non-appearance of the reflected tints in such media , are endeavoured to be ex ?
plained by the introduction of several considerations , the complete discussion of which the author reserves for the subject of a future paper .
From the phenomena of thin plates , of polarized tints , and of absorption , the existence of a new property of light is deduced , in virtue of which the reflecting force selects out of differently co ?
loured rays of the same refrangibility rays of a particular colour , allowing the others to pass into the transmitted ray ; a principle not provided for in either of the theories of light to which the phenomena of absorption are ultimately referable , and furnishing an explanation of certain remarkable phenomena of dichroism in doubly refracting bodies , in which rays of the same refrangibility , but of different co ?
lours , pass into the ordinary and extraordinary pencils .

