306 Dr , D. H. Scott .
Note on the Occurrence of a " Note on the Occurrence of a Seed-like Fructification in certain Palaeozoic Lycopods .
" By D. H. Scott , M A. , Ph. D. , F.E.S. , Honorary Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
Received August 21 , 1900 .
It has generally been assumed by palseobotanists that the fossil seeds described by Williamson* under the name of even if not necessarily co-generic with the 0ardiocarpusf of Brongniart , at least belonged to the same group of Gymnospermous plants .
} : Brongniart 's specimens , often preserved with marvellous perfection , have proved to be the seeds of members of the extinct Order Cordaitese , or of allied plants .
The same conclusion applies to certain of the British forms , notably the Cardiocarpon anomalum of Carruthers , S which was certainly Cordaitean , and probably to some of Williamson 's examples .
The specimens to be shortly described in the present note show , however , that seed-like bodies , identical with those figured by Williamson under the name of Cardiocarpon anomalum , \\ were borne on Lepidodendroid cones , otherwise indistinguishable from Lepidostrobus , They thus prove that under the genus Cardiocarpon , and even under the " species " C , anomalum , totally different objects have been confounded , namely , the seeds of Cordaitese or Cycads on the one hand , and the integumented megasporangia of certain Palaeozoic Lycopods on the other .
The latter organs present close analogies with true seeds , but are wholly distinct in detailed structure from the Gymnospermous seeds above mentioned .
The discovery of the specimens of the new cone is due to Messrs. !
J. Lomax and G. Wild , who recognised it as a CardiocarporChearing strobilus , resembling a Lepidostrobus.11 The original specimens , which are calcified and generally well preserved , were derived from the Ganister beds of the Lower Coal* " Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures , " Part VIII , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' vol. 167 , Part I , 1877 , p. 254 .
t Founded in Brongniart 's ' Prodrome d'une Histoire des Vegetaux Fossiles , ' 1828.- The forms Cardiocarpon and Cardioca have been used indiscriminately by authors .
J See , for example , Solms-Laubach , * Introduction to Fossil Botany .
' English edition , p. 120 .
S " Notes on some Fossil Plants , " ' G-eol .
Mag. , ' vol. 9 , 1872 .
j } Loc .
cit. , Part VIII , Plate 14 , fig. 118 , and Plate 16 , fig. 119 ; Part X , 1880 , ; Plate 20 , fig. 64 .
These figures are from specimens which I have certainly identified with the Lepidostroboid fructification .
Others figured by Williamson are of doubtful nature .
^ See the note by Messrs. Wild and Lomax , " On a new Cardiocarpon-bearing \ Strobilus , " ' Annals of Botany , ' March , 1900 .
Seed-like Fructification in certain Palaeozoic Lycopods .
307 measures , some from Hough Hill , Stalybridge , others from Moorside , Oldham .
Numerous sections were cut by Mr. Lomax and Mr. Wild .
A closely similar fructification occurs , at a much lower horizon , in the Burntisland beds of the Calciferous Sandstone Series .
, The strobilus is of the ordinary L type .
The cylindrical axis bears numerous spirally disposed sporophylls , each of which consists of a long horizontal pedicel , expanding at the distal end into a rather thick lamina , which turns vertically upwards .
I Anatomically , the structure is also that of a Lepidostrobus .
The steal which traverses the -axis has a narrow ring of centripetal wood , and a large pith ; the leaf-trace bundles which pass out to the sporophylls are collateral in structure , and agree closely with those described by Mr. Maslen in Lepidostrobus Oldhamiu I The ligule is sometimes well preserved ; it is seated in a depression .of the upper surface of the sporophyll , at the distal end of the sporangium , and is thus in the normal position . !
f With one exception , the specimens of the strobilus are immature , and their tissues not quite fully differentiated .
These younger specimens ' hear sporangia which are essentially those of a Lepidostrobus .
A single large sporangium is seated on the upper surface of the hori-I jzontal pedicel of each sporophyll , to the median line of which it is 1 attached along almost its whole length .
I The sporangium narrows out towards the top , and terminates above |in a well-marked ridge ; in general form it resembles Williamson 's mOurdiocarpon anomalum , but in the immature condition there is no 1 integument .
The outer layer of the sporangial wall has the columnar lor palisade-like structure characteristic of ; it is lined by 1 a more delicate inner layer , which may be several cells thick .
I So far the structure is simply that of a Lepidostrobus with rather 1 thick-walled sporangia . .
Within the sporangial cavity , the membranes of the megaspores are I usually preserved ; a single large megaspore almost fills the spo-irangium , but smaller , abortive spores , with thicker walls , are also I present .
Some specimens show that three of these abortive spores k were present in each sporangium .
It appears , then , that a single tetiad I was developed in each megasporangium , and that of the four sisterII cells one only came to perfection , constituting the functional megaspore .
In one specimen , discovered by Mr. Wild , the strobilus is in a more I advanced condition .
In its upper part the sporophylls simply bear I sporangia , as above described , hut lower down in the cone these are I replaced by integumented , seed-like structures , identical with the i detached bodies called Gardioctivpou anomalum by illiamson .
* Maslen , " The Structure of Lepidostrobus , " 'Trans .
Linn. Soc. , ' London , M Ser. 2 , vol. 5 , 1899 .
f Maslen , " The Ligule in Lepidostrobus , " Annals of Botany , ' vol. 12 , 1898 .
308 Dr. D. H. Scott .
Note on Occurrence of a The structure of this strobilus is sufficiently well preserved to show that the anatomy of the axis agrees with that of the less mature specimens , and , as the tissues are more completely formed , exhibits , the Lepidostroboid characters even more clearly .
Mr. Wild 's specimen , then , demonstrates that the Cardiocarpon anomaluvi of Williamson was borne on a cone with all the characters of a Lepidostrobus , and that it represents the matured condition of the megasporangium and sporophyll .
The detailed comparison of specimens in the young and the mature condition has shown the nature of the change , which converts the megasporangium , together with its sporophyll , into a seed-like organ .
The nucellus of the latter retains almost unaltered the structure of the megasporangial wall , with its columnar layer .
In the sporangia !
cavity the single large megaspore , accompanied by its abortive sister-cells , is present as before .
A thick integument has , however , grown up from the sporophyll , completely overarching the megasporangium , except for a narrow crevice left open at the top .
When seen in a section tangential to the strobilus as a whole , this crevice is cut across , and presents exactly the appearance of a micropyle ; in reality it differs from a micropyle in being a narrow slit , extending almost the whole length of the sporangium , in the radial direction , whereas the micropyle of an ordinary seed is a more or less tubular passage .
The integument springs from the upper surface of the sporophyll-pedicel ; it does not consist of the incurved margin of the pedicel , for , in the more distal region , the margin of the latter projects consider !
ably beyond the insertion of the integument .
From the frequency of detached specimens in the condition , it appears that in nature the sporophyll , bearing the integu-mented megasporangium , was shed as a whole , though parts of the sporophyll-lamina no doubt perished , only so much being persistent as was necessary to form a complete envelope to the " seed .
" .
In a strobilus associated with the seed-like specimens , and bearing microsporangia , it was found that the latter , like the megasporangia of the female cone , are provided with integuments .
This specimen was .
figured by Mr. Maslen as a variety of Lepidostrobus , * though possibly deserving specific rank , a determination with which I agreed at the time .
There is every reason , however , to suppose that this strobilus was a male fructification of the same species , the female of which bears the integumented seed-like megasporangia above described . !
The microsporangial integument is more widely open than that of the megasporangium .
The Burntisland specimens , which from their horizon are presumably !
of a distinct species , are at present only known in the isolated Cardiom carponcondition .
They are of interest for two reasons : in one speci- ; # Maslen , c Structure of Lepidostrobus/ p. 371 , Plate 37 , fig. 21 .
Seed-like Fructification in certain Paleozoic Lycopods .
309 men the ligule is clearly shown , enclosed by the integument , the only example of this organ , so far observed , in the mature , seed-like stage of the fructification .
Another of the Burntisland specimens is the only one as yet observed in which the prothallus is present * It fills a great part of the functional megaspore , which is almost co-extensive with the spo-rangial cavity , and consists of a large-celled tissue , resembling the prothallus of Isoetes or Selaginella .
The peripheral prothallial cells are smaller than the rest , but no archegonia could be detected .
I The bodies described in this note resemble true seeds in the possession of a testa or integument , and in the faet that one megaspore or embryo-sac alone came to perfection ; the seed-like organ was likewise shed entire , and appears to have been indehiscent .
In many points of detail , however , the reproductive bodies in question differ from the seeds of any known Gymnosperms ; they afford no proof of the origin of the latter Class from the Lycopods .
The newly discovered fructification nevertheless shows that certain Palaeozoic Lycopods , with strobih at first indistinguishable from Lepidostrobus , crossed the boundary line which we are accustomed to draw between Sporophyta and bper-mophyta .
, , 1 As these fossils appear worthy of generic rank , I propose to found the genus Lepidocarpon for their reception ; it may be briefly characterized as follows :\#151 ; .
' .
, , : Lepidocarpon , gen .
nor.\#151 ; Strobilus , with the characters oi lepvlostn-ta , hut microsporangia and megasporangia each surrounded by an integument , growing up from the upper surface of the sporophyll .
Megasporangium completely enclosed in the integument , except for a slitdike micropyle along the top .
A single functional megi\#171 ; pore developed in each megasporangium .
Sporophyll , together with the integumented megasporangium , detached entire from the strobilus , the whole forming a closed , seed-like , reproductive body .
I It is proposed to name the Coal-measure form Lepdocarfon Lcmaxt , and that from Burntisland L. TTUdiamm .
Both were included by Williamson under his Cardiocarpon anormlum , which , however , is quite different from the seed so named by Carruthers .
A full , illustrated account of these fossils is in preparation , and will shortly be submitted to the Royal Society .
*1 have since examined a section , cut by Mr. Lomax from one Coal measure specimens , in which the prothallus is even better preserved .
added October 9 , 1900 .
VOL. LXVI1 .

