\#166 ; 410 Dr. B. Stewart .
[ Mar 9 balanced by that of sodium at the temperature of the flame of cya nogen burning in air , but is sensibly less than that of sodium , at the temperature of a jet of coal-gas and oxygen , much less than that of -sodium in the oxyhydrogen jet .
This seems to render it probable that the temperature of the incandescent thread is not far different from that , of a cyanogen flame burning in air ( or rather the temperature it conveys to the sodium in it ) , but is less than that of an oxyhydrogen flame , though this does not necessarily follow from the experiments , inasmuch as the radiation of the sodium is so much more limited as to range than that of the carbon .
When a Bunsen burner or a gas blowpipe flame was interposed between the lens and slit , no reversal of the hydrocarbon bands could be seen .
When magnesium was burnt between the lens and slit , the magnesium lines ( b ) were seen bright , eclipsing the carbon .
' Possibly the .smoke of magnesia may have considerably helped to eclipse the light of the carbon .
IV .
" PreHminary Report to the Solar Physics Committee on a Comparison for Two Years between the .Diurnal Ranges of Magnetic Declination as recorded at the Kew Observatory , and the Diurnal Ranges of Atmospheric Temperature as .
recorded at the Observatories of Stonyhurst , Kew , and Falmouth .
" By Balfour Stewart , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics at Owens College , Manchester .
'Communicated to the Royal Society by permission of the Solar Physics Committee .
Received January 25 , 1882 .
1 .
In a paper communicated to this Society , and published in its ."Proceedings " ( vol. 32 , p. 406 ) , evidence was brought forward tending to show that what may be termed declination-range weather takes T6 days to pass from Toronto to Kew ; that is , the same phase occurs ays later at Kew than at Toronto .
And in a previous paper ( ojp .
***** voL 29 ' P- 308 ) evidence was brought forward tending to show that temperature-range weather takes about 8 days to pass between these two places .
In this last-mentioned paper an attempt was likewise made to show that there is a similarity between magnetical and meteorological -changes , and that both are due to the sun .
This result has been confirmed by subsequent discussion , and there seems reason to suppose that in America both magnetical and meteorological changes follow very quickly after the solar changes which produce them .

