Memoir on the occurrence of Iodine and Bromine in certain Mineral Waters of South Britain .
By Charles Daubeny , M.D. F.R.S. Professor of Chemistry in the University of Oxford .
Read May 6 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 223 .
] The author lays claim to being the first who announced to the public the existence of bromine in the mineral springs of England ; a discovery similar to that which had been previously made by others in many analogous situations on the Continent .
His reason for offering the present communication to the Royal Society is , that he has examined on the spot a great number of mineral springs , and en- , deavoured to obtain , wherever it was practicable , an approximation to the proportion which iodine and bromine bear to the other ingredients .
He has also aimed at forming an estimate of their comparative frequency and abundance in the several rock formations , an object of considerable interest in geology , as tending to identify the products of the ancient seas in their most minute particulars with those of the present ocean .
The results of his inquiries are given in the form of a table , in which the springs , whose waters he examined , are classified according to the geological position of the strata from which they issue , and of which the several columns exhibit the total amount of their saline ingredients ; the nature and proportion of each ingredient , as ascertained by former chemists , or by the author himself ; and lastly , where they contained either iodine or bromine , the proportions these substances bear to the quantities of water , and likewise to the chlorine also present in the same spring .
He finds that the proportion of iodine to chlorine varies in every possible degree ; and that even springs which are most strongly impregnated with common salt are those in which he could not detect the smallest trace of iodine .
The same remark , he observes , applies also to bromine ; whence he concludes , that although these two principles may , perhaps , never be entirely absent where the muriates occur , yet their relative distribution is exceedingly unequal .
The author conceives that these analyses will tend to throw some light on the connection between the chemical constitution of mineral waters and their medicinal waters .
Almost the only two brine springs , properly so called , which have acquired any reputation as medicinal agents , namely , that of Kreutznach in the Palatinate , and that of Ashby-de-la-Zouch in Leicestershire , contain a much larger proportion than usual of bromine , a substance , the poisonous quality of which was ascertainedc by its discoverer Balard .
The author conceives that these two recently discovered principles exist in mineral waters , in combination with hydrogen , forming the hydriodic and hydrobromic acids , neputralized in all probability by magnesia , and constituting salts which are decomposable at a low temperature .
He has no doubt that a sufficient supply of bromine might be procured from our English brine springs , should it ever happen that a demand for this new sulbstance were to arise .

