120 On the Sensory Nerves of the Eye-Muscles .
" Further Note on the Sensory Nerves of the Eye-Muscles .
" By C. S. Sherrington , M.A. , M.D. , F.R.S. , University College , Liverpool .
Beceived September 21 , \#151 ; Read November 17 , 1898 .
In a communication on the sensory nerves of muscles laid before the Society last year , * the question previously raised !
as to the existence of afferent nerve fibres in the so-called " motor " cranial nerves for the muscles of the eye was advanced to the following position .
Myelinated nerve-fibres from the Illrd cranial and IYth cranial nerve-roots were traced into the tendons of the recti and oblique muscles .
Since then control observations have been made .
The ophthalmic division of the Yth cranial has been severed at its origin , and with it the Vlth cranial trunk .
This has been done in the monkey .
The condition of the nerve branches going to and lying within the muscles and tendons has been examined after an interval of twelve to fourteen days .
Those of the external rectus contained nothing but degenerate nerve-fibres , save for a few fine myelinate fibres , probably from the ciliary ganglion .
Those of all of the other eye-muscles contained exclusively healthy nerve-fibres .
The sensorial musculo-tendinous organs of the eye-muscles are , therefore , not innervated by the ophthalmic division of the trigeminus .
On the other hand , the nerve-fibres of the external rectus muscle behave , after severance of the Vlth cranial nerve , in the same way as my previous papers showed those of the other eye muscles do* after section of the Illrd and IVth nerves . .
A contribution towards the , physiological inquiry into the matter has been made as follows , and has given a clear reply .
The conjunctiva1 ; , both palpebral and ocular , and the cornea ; of both eyes have been rendered deeply anaesthetic to cold , warmth , touch , and pain by liberal applications of cocaine .
Then in a completely dark room the power to direct the gaze with accuracy in any required direction has been tested .
The person under examination is seated , with the head securely fixed , in front of a screen .
One of his hands carries a marker .
The hand is moved by an assistant , and is made to mark the screen at some one point ; it is then passively replaced .
The person under observation dining this time keeps the eyes open in the primary position or sits with them closed .
He is then required to direct his gaze to the spot marked on the screen .
The light is then switched on , and the point to which the gaze is turned is noted .
The power to direct the gaze under these circumstances has been found to remain good .
If for co-ordinate execution and ability to perform the delicate adjustments for training * C. S. Sherrington , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 , p. 247 , February , 1897 .
t C. S. Sherrington , * Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' No. 3 , June , 1894 .
Experiment in Search of Action of one Crystal on another .
121 the eyeballs correctly in any desired position the exercise of peripheral apparatus of muscular sense is required , the only possible channels under the above conditions would seem to be deep branches of the Yth nerve or the Illrd , IVth , and YIth so-called " motor " nerves themselves .
As previously stated , the former are by both my earlier and later degeneration experiments excluded .
The latter , therefore , are the onty ones remaining , for the superficial branches of the Yth and the retinae are put out of action by the conditions of experiment .
I am indebted to Mr. E. E. Laslett for carrying out the observations with me .
Details regarding the methods employed and the results obtained will be given in a completer paper written in conjunction with him .
" An Experiment in Search of a Directive Action of one Quartz Crystal on another .
" By J. H. Pointing , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , and P. L Gray , B.Sc. Deceived September 27 , \#151 ; Bead November 17 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) A quartz sphere , 0*9 cm .
diameter , weight 1-004 grams , was suspended by a long quartz fibre so that its time of vibration was about 120 seconds .
A second quartz sphere , 6*6 cm .
diameter , weighing 399-9 grams , with its centre on a level with that of the first and 5*9 cm .
from it , was rotated continuously in a period of 115 seconds in one series , and in a period of 230 seconds in another series of observations .
The a ds of the smaller sphere was horizontal and perpendicular to the line through the centres .
Any directive action should manifest itself as a periodic couple , producing forced oscillations in the smaller sphere .
If the ends of the axis of a quartz crystal are indistinguishable the coiiple should go through its values in half a revolution of the larger sphere .
This is termed the " quadrantal " couple , and to test for it the time of revolution was 230 seconds , or nearly double that of the suspended sphere .
If the ends of the axis are poles , like those of a magnet , the couple should go through its values only , in a complete revolution .
This is termed the " semi-circular " couple , and to test for it the time of revolution was 115 seconds , or nearly equal to that of the suspended sphere .
The position of this latter sphere was read by means of mirror and scale every 1Y5 seconds , at ten equidistant phases of the 115-seconds period .
By taking a large number of periods , the mean reading for each phase should be freed to a great extent from other periodic motions and accidental disturbances , and a 115-second vibration should , if it existed , be rendered evident .
L 2

