]\gt ; PHILOSOPHICAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. On the Luni-Solar of Declination and Horizontal Force at Bombay , of Declination at Trevandrum .
By CHAMBERS , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the ColClba , Bombay .
Received March 24 , \mdash ; Read April 1 , 1886 .
[ PLATES 1-5 .
] IN the early attempts to investigate the influence of the moon upon terrestrial magnetism , the observations dealt with extended over periods so limited that little was possible beyond determining the average character of the lunar diurnal variation .
This was mainly because magnetic disturbance tends\mdash ; and especially in extra-tropical regions\mdash ; to mask the minute variations that depend upon the moon .
The series of observations made at the Colaba Observatory , Bombay , and discussed in the present paper , extending over twenty-five years in the case of the declination and over twenty-six and a half years in the case of the horizontal force , possesses therefore the double advantage of being originally affected by only the relatively small disturbances of a tropical station , an of being lengthy enough to secure an approximate elimination of such disturbance as is involved in it , even by combination of portions only of the whole body of observations .
2 .
The instruments used at Colaba were made by GRUBB , of Dublin , and are like those described in the report ( of 1840 ) of the Committee of Physics of the Royal Society , the magnets being fifteen inches long .
An account of them and of their history will be found in 'Appendices to the Bombay Magn ) and Meteorological Observations , 1879 to 1882 , ' pages [ 84 ] and [ 138 ] : and to this account reference may be made for particulars as to the adJustments determination of scale coefficients of both the declination and horizontal force magnetometers , and as to the determination of the temperature coefficient of the latter instrument .
The following extract is , however , given in full , the matter of it being essential to an understanding of the principal object of this paper .
3 .
Method of Reduction of the \mdash ; The mode of treatment adopted is that which was introduced by General Sir EDWA SABINE , and which is described by him in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' vol. 10 , pp. 624-626 , in the following words:\mdash ; " " The ] ydirections of the magnet are entered in monthly Tables , having the of the month in successive horizontal ] ines , and the hours of the day in vertical columns .
The 'means ' of the entries in each vertical column indicate the mean direction of magnet at the rent hours of the month to which the Table belongs , and have received the name of ' first normals .
' On inspecting any such monthly Table , it is at once seen that a considerable portion of the entries the several columns differ considerably from their respective means or first normals , and must be arded as ' disturbed observations .
' The laws of their relative frequency amount of disturbance in different years , months , and hours are then sought out separating for that purpose a sufficient body of the most disturbed observations , computing the amount of departure in each case from the normal of the same month hour , and arranging the amounts in annual , monthly , and hourly tables .
In aking these computations , the first norlnals require to be themselves corrected by the omission in each vertical column of } entries noted as disturbed , and by taking fresh means , representing the normals of each month and hour after this omission , and therefore ntluenced by the larger disturbances .
These new means have the name of ' final normals , ' and may be defined as being the mean directions of the magnet in every month and every hour after the omission from the record .
of every entrv which differed from the mean by a certain amount either in excess or defect .
" " In this process there is nothing indefinite , and nothing arbitrary save the meant of the particular amount of difference from the normal which shall be held to constitute the measure of a large disturbance , and which , for distinction 's sake , we may call ' the separating alue .
' It must be an amount which will separate a sufficient body of disturbed observations to permit their laws to be satisfactorily ascertained , but in other respects its precise value is of minor significancy ; and the limits within which a selection may be made , without materially affecting the results , are usually by no meaus narrow , for it has been found experimentally on several occasions that the ratios by which the periodical variations of disturbance in different years , months , and hours are characterised and expressed do not undergo any material change by even considerable differences in the amount of the separating value .
The separating value must necessarily be larger at some stations than at others , because the absolute magnitude of the disturbance variation itself is very different in different palts of the globe , as well as its comparative magnitude in relation to the more regular solar diurnal variation , but it must be a constant quantity throughout at one and the same station , or it will not truly show the relative proportion of disturbance in different years and different months The words " " directions of the magnet\ldquo ; in the extract must be taken when applied to the Colaba declination observations to } ) those directions as expressed either by the original scale readings or those readings converted into minutes of easterly declination ; and , when applied to the horizontal force observations , to imply the directions as expressed by the original scale readings after reduction to a uniform temperature .
4 .
The period of the declination observations is from to , and that of the horizontal force observations from to .
With the exception of Sundays and eight or ten complete days in each year , the observations were taken continuously at hourly intervals throughout these periods .
The entries in the monthly declination Tables of the years 1846 to 1865 in minutes of arc , in those of the years 1866 to 1870 in original scale the " " separating value\ldquo ; made 1AGNETIC DECLINATION AN D , FOTIC use of was or its equivalent scale ions .
The separatmg value adopted for the horizontal force was the equlvalent scale reading of 000334 of a C.G.S. unit of force .
Continuing now the from the described in it , " " all observations having been thrown out deviated from ] ' Normal of each hour by more than the amount of the separating value , new Tables were formed in each was substituted by its excess above the Final Normal of its own hour ; or rather , by that excess , plus a constant round number .
, the Final Normal was dimmished by the round number , and the difference being then between the number found and each observation in the same hour column , all the rences have the positive , and thus the inconvenience of .
with positive and negative numbers is avoided .
On the new Tables the observation at the solar hour of each day which was nearest to the time of the moon 's crossing the meridian of Bombay from East to West ) was marked with a figure to indicate that that observation must be placed to the 0th hour of the lnnar day in Tables having the lunar hours , from to marked in consecutive order at the top of the several columns .
If only twenty-three observations intervened between two marked ones , they were entered in the Table as forming a complete lunar day ; but , as twenty-four observations intervened , the two which were in the nearest correspondence to the same lunar hour were combined together , and the mean of the two treated as a single The times of New Moon , First Quarter , Full Moon , and Last \mdash ; taken from the Nautical Almanac , and duly COlTected for fference of longitude between Greenwich and , or were also marked on the of the sheet opposite to the several corresponding soIar days ; for the groups of days , two before and two after these times respectively , the moon was regarded as at the several quarters ; and during the days the designations of the moon 's phases were one-eighth , eighths , five-eighths , and seveneighths respectively .
The entries in the Tables of lunar differences , thus marked , were now distributed , in full lunar days , amongst thirty-two new Tables , called lunar abstracts , of which there was oIJe for each eighth of a cycle of the moon 's phases in each quarter of the year .
The whole of a lunar day 's differences were entered in lunar abstracts under that of phase to the greater half of the day belonged .
Whenever the of undisturbed observations on a lunar day was less than twelve the whole day 's differences were rejected .
When all the rences of each category had been entered on their respective lunar Tables , the hourly means were taken on these Tables , and the excess was then found of each of these means above the mean of all the hours ; finally , these excesses were converted into force equivalents .
The series of hourly excesses thus found may , in a sufficiently extended nquiry , be taken to represent the lunar diurnal variation of declination or horizontal force when the sun and moon have the positions ndicated by that particular Table .
6 .
The following Tables show , for each element , the converted hourl excesses foLlnd on each of the thirty-two lunar abstracts : * Until the records were made at houl .
of Gotbingen Astronomical time ; since that date , at hours of Bombay Civil time .
AII the results tabulated or graphically represented in this paper have reference , however , to the lunar day or the solar astronomical at the placs of observation .
The calculations having been made also for the summer and winter half-yeazs , and for the full year , their results for these periods are the Tables .
MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL .
5 MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCE .
7 DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND IiOHORIZONT I ORCR .
7 .
Curves were now constructed to represent the variations otherwise expressed by the hourly excesses for the everal seasons and phases , and a consideration of them led to the formation of the hypothesis that the bulk of the phenomenon dealt with is , properly speaking , not a lunar diurnal variation , but a solar diurnal variation that depends on the relative positions of the sun and moon , a variation such that it may be expressed , for any one season , by the formula where is the hour of the solar day , the mean period of a lurlation in mean solar days , and the age of the moon in mean solar days ; and , are the observed variations at new moon and when the moon has the age ightb of a ) ation respectively .
It will be seen that , though the typical variations of one season from those of another , this hypothesis holds good generally in each quarter of the year separately .
Of the two characteristics of the curves that pointed in the direction of the formula , the first the general fact that the great movements occur in them , as in curves of the mean solar diurnal variations for full lunations , in the day hours , and the night hours are relatively quiescent ; or , viewed in another aspect , the significant movements occur at all hours of the lunar day in the course of a lunation , and appear earlier and earlier the age of the moon increases .
And the second characteristic was that the curves , regarded as solar diurnal curves , have generally the same form and range , intervals of half lun ation , and opposite forms at eryals of a quarter of a lunation ; and this with reference separately to each of the two magnetic elements and to each season of the year . .
It may be explained here that in the first reductions of the Bombay declina.tion observations the categories into which the days were divided had reference ( 1 ) to the four seasons of the year , ( 2 ) to four positions of the moon in declination , and ( 3 ) to the four quarters of the moon\mdash ; not to eight phases as in the later reductions .
A short account of a first nent of the results of these reductions , dealing with the observations of the years 1861 to 1860 was read before the Royal Society on the 2nd February , 1872 ; but it was the results of these earlier reductions for the full period of twenty-five years that suggested the idea of the luni-solar variation as expressed by the formula given in the last paragraph , and the computation and curving of the lunar.diumal variations of each category for that period were not completed till the 4th March , 1873 .
How very definite the gestion was may be seen from the curves of figs. 50 to 53 , 55 to 58 , 60 to 63 , and 65 to 68 , which represent the diurnal variations for the sixteen principal categories .
To facilitate comparison , the curves for the different phases of the same season are placed under one another , the lunar time scales are arranged so that the beginning and end of the curves should colrespond approximately to the same solar time , and force scales for first quarter DLCLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCL .
and last larter are inverted in with the force scales for new moon and full moon .
With the curves thus arranged , the four , occupying each vertical curveform , and of which the fifth curve is , in each , the type , can be taken into view at a single glance , and the of their similarity is thus easily recognised .
But similarity in these curves means the same thing as the second characteristic of the curves of lunar diurnal val.iations , which is expressed in words in the last paragraph as follows\mdash ; the curves , regarded as solar diurnal curves , have generally the same form and range at intervals of half a lunation , and opposite forms at intervals of a quarter of a lunation .
The similarity is very pronounced in all seasons except the transition one\mdash ; February to April\mdash ; in which the inversion of character of the variations is in progress .
September , 1886 .
] 8 .
It now became an object to adapt the results already obtained , which have reference to the lunar day , to the determination of the data and of the formula ; for this purpose the following process was adopted .
As the lunar day ghly approximates to the same length as the solar day , we suppose the observed lunar diurnal variation at new moon to imply with rough approximation a solar diurnal variation of the same character ; and we enter the hourly excesses in a Table having solar hours , from to 23 , marked at the top of the columns ; under these numbers we erlter the excesses of full moon , placing the number belonging to the 0th hour of lunar time under the 12th hour of solar time , and we then take the sums of the two sets of numbers .
Again , we enter the excesses of first quarter , placing the number belonging to the 0th hour of lunar time under the 6th hour of solar time ; and under these we enter the excesses of last quarter , placing the number of the 0th hour of lunar time the hour of Qolar t , and we then take the sum of these two sets of numbers ; next , we subtract the latter sums from former , and divide the results by 4 , the series of quotients the typical variation for the quarters of the moon , that is , Similarly , substituting the hourly excesses of the phases one-eighth , three-eighths , five-eighths , and seven-eighths for those of new first quarter , full moon , and last quarter respectively , we obtain the typical variation for the eighths phases , that is .
In this way , of which an example will now be given , have been obtained the typical variations shown in Tables 9 and 10 , using as data the numbers in Column 2 of Tables 1 to 4 for the first line of Table 9 , in Column 3 of Tables 1 to 4 for the second line of Table 9 , and so on .
CALCULATION of the typical Variation of Declination for the Quarters of the TABLE 9.\mdash ; Showing the typical Variations and TABLE 10 .
\mdash ; Showing the typical ions f and ovember tanuary variatiolJs of Tables 9 and DECLINATION AND HORI Z Moon in the Quarter November to January\mdash ; that is , of the Vari tion .
of Declination at Botnbay for each Quarter of the year .
of Horizontal Force at Bombay for each Quarter of the 10 are curved in figs. 1 to 16 .
9 .
Considering now the typical curves ( to 16 ) , we see that those which are the most and systematic in character , and have the largest range , whetber of dec]ination or horizontal force , are for the winter season ; and , in the case of each type , the curves for the other asons are definitely related to these .
Thus , as to declination , between winter and summer there is an inversion of the types of botb figs , 1 and 5 ; and the type-curves of the transition period , the spring season , have but a small range , and in them the prominent features of the winter curves are but erated .
Necessarily there is also a return inversion of the type in another season , and it occurs between mid-autumn and mid-winter .
On the other hand , the horizontal force types ( figs. 9 to 16 ) , although of largest range in winter , are never reversed in character , but contract only to a minimum range , which is reached in the summer season .
The typical diurnal variation for November to .
Tanuary of horizontal force at new moon ( fig. 9 ) , and that of declination at the one-eighth phase reversed to correspond to the seven-eighths phase ( fig. 5 reversed ) , have generally a maximum about three hours before noon , a minimum about three hours after noon , and are nearly nil for three or four hours before and- after midnight , ; those of ] ination at new moon and of horizontal force at the one-eighth phase ( fig. 13 ) have a principal upward inflexion with a turning point about noon , two nearly equal downward inflexions with turning points about five or six hours before and after noon , and little or no departure from the mean line for three or four hours before and after midnight .
For the summer and autumn seasons similar descriptions of the typical diurnal variations would apply , providing due allowance were made for the double in the course of the year of the declination types .
Comparing figs. 3 and 4 with 1 , and figs. 7 and 8 , all declination curves , it may be noted , as a minor characteristic , that the principal inflexions occur generally somewhat earlier in summer and autumn than in winter .
10 .
The general similarity of character of figs. 1 and 13 , representing the and data of our formula for the declination and horizontal force respectively , and the opposition of character of figs. 5 and 9 , representing conversely the and data for the elements taken in the same order , call for further consideration .
These relations may be translated into a statement that , in the winter season , the luni-solar valiation of declination due to new moon is similar to the variation of horizontal force due to the one-eighth phase ; and the luni-solar variation of horizontal force due to new moon is similar to the luni-solar variation of declination due to the seven-eighths phase .
In other words , the luni-solar variation of declination due to any phase of the moon is similar to the variation of horizontal force due to a later by one-eighth of a lunation .
In the summer and autumn seasolJs it is , on the other hand , the luni-solar variations of horizontal force that precede by one-eighth of a lunation the similar variations of declination ; this will be seen by comparing figs. with figs. 7 and 8 , and figs 15 with figs. 3 reversed .
MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCE .
The fact of harmonious relations of this kind being found to subsist between results derived from long series of observations of two independent instruments , we cannot but regard a strong testimony to the reality of the phenomena now brought to light ; neither can we refrain from claiming for such results a modest place the phenomenal laws of terrestrial magnetism that must ultimately stand in the same relation to a physical theory of terrestrial netism that KEPLER'S laws stand in towards the theory of gravitation .
11 .
At this stage the question was put\mdash ; With what approach to completeness does the typical variation in each case represent the four actual variations from which it was derived , or how much of a mean lunar variation is there in these over and above the typical Subtracting ( say ) from the observed variation at new moon and ] moon , and adding it to the observed variation at first quarter and last quarter in such a way that the 0th , 6th , 12th , and 18th hours of are compared with the 0th hour of new moon , first quarter , full moon , and last quarter respectively ; the 1st , , 13th , and 19th hours of with the 1st hour of new moon , first quarter , \amp ; c. , respectively , and so on , we obtain four sets of residual variations , each commencing with the 0th hour of the day ; and , taking the mean of these four , we obtain the residual lunar diurnal variation that is left after appropriately eliminating the typical variation for the four quarters .
A similar procedure , the observed variations at the eighths phases , gives corresponding residual variations for the eighths phases .
12 .
On curving these residuals for each quarter of the year \mdash ; eight in all for each magnetic element\mdash ; and comparing each curve with the corresponding typical variation curve , they were all found to be of small relative range , but most of them had a definite character , in which the principal harmonic element was that which has the lunar day for its period .
In the latter fact we found a suggestion that , although our formula disposes of the bulk of the phenomena for which an expression is to be found , the addition to it of two more independent terms would not only make it mathematically more complete , but would render it further expressive of an otherwise neglected , but significant , element in the luni-solar variation .
Making this addition , the formula becomes * If be written for the angle , and for the angle , the formula may easily be transformed into cos2 , in which , are variations , of constant types , having the period of a lunation , and are variations , of constant types , having a period of half a lunation ; and all these swell and contract with a wave-like , in the period of a day , and , in the each term of which is symbolical of a definite physical conception , viz. , that an otherwise constant variation swells and contracts with a wave-like motion , as the age of the moon increases , between the limits and .
13 .
If the initial new moon occur at hours of the initial solar day , from the beginning of which time is reckoned in solar astronomical hours , the age of the moon will become , the period of a lunation ; and for may be substituted : and if , further , be expressed in the form our extended formula may easily be transformed into where the numbers \amp ; c. , and the angles \amp ; c. , are constants ; thab is to say , it may\mdash ; inclusive of the first four terms of \mdash ; be transformed into eight simple waves whose periods , in solar hours , are ; and Of these periods the first and sixth are the lunar day and half-day respectively ; from which it follows that , even if our extended formula be a substantially correct expres- period of half-a-day .
It thus appears that and are reciprocally related , so that the period of either may be regarded as that of the variation of constant type , and the period of the other is then that in which the variation of constant type oscillates , whilst the complex variation of the remains identically the same ; and this result is general so long as the number of terms in the formula is the same as the number of terms in each of the variations of constant type .
The name\mdash ; the luni-solar variation\mdash ; has been chosen to distinguish the variation expressed by the formula as one involving the periods of a lunation and the solar , and of sub-multiples of these periods ; and the } \mdash ; typical variation\mdash ; has been given to the variations of constant type .
MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL ORCE .
sion of the phenomena in question , there is nothing anomalous in our finding , as we do in fact , definite lunar diurnal variations from the observations of complete lunations .
It will , indeed , be seen further on ( paragraph 17 ) that the lunar half-day wave is one of the two mosb prominent , and that the lunar day wave has , generally speaking , an amplitude as great as any of the remaining five .
14 .
Proceeding now to find the values of , , having entered the observed lunar diurnal variation for new moon in a Table having the solar hours , from to 23 , marked at the top of the columns , commencing with hours of the lunar day , we enter underneath this the observed lunar diurnal variation for full moon , commencing with 12 hours , and then subtract the lower entries from the upper : half he difference we take to be the value of as derived from the new moon and full moon variations .
, entering the observed lunar diurnal variation for first quarter , commencing with 18 hours , and under it the observed lunar diurnal variation for last quarter , commencing with 6 hours , and subtracting the lower numbers and dividing by 2 , we obtain the value of as derived from the first quarter and last quarter variations .
In like manner we obtain from the observed lunar diurnal variation for the one-eighth and five-eighths phases the value of or ( say ) ; and from the variations for the three-eighths and seven-eighths phases the value of : combining the last two quantities , we find and as values derived from the variations of the eighths phases .
In Tables 11 to 18 are collected together the results of these various calculations . .
C. CHAMBERS ON LUNI-SOLAR VARIATIONS TABLE TABLE 12.\mdash ; Declination .
fehbcl } TABLE 13.\mdash ; Declination .
Bombay MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCE .
November to January .
February to April .
May to July .
Astronomical Hours .
TABLE 14.\mdash ; Declination .
TABLE 15.\mdash ; Horizontal Force . .
\mdash ; Horizontal Force .
Bombay DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL 2.3 August to October .
Astronomical Hours .
November to January .
February to April .
TABLE 17.\mdash ; Horizontal Force .
TABLE 18.\mdash ; Horizontal Force .
MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCE .
May to July .
tronomical H August to October .
Astronomical Hours .
The mean variations , ( lines and of Tables 11 to 18 ) , are curved in order in figs. 22 to 37 .
15 .
Extending now the process of elimination described in paragraph 11 , so as to -urther clear the observed valiations of their elements , , \amp ; c. , as shown on lines and of Tables 11 to 18 , we from the observed lunar diurnal variation at new moon , commencing with hours ; subtract from the observed variation at first quarter , commencing with 6 hours ; add to the observed variation at full moon , commencing with 12 hours ; and to the observed variation at last quarter , commencing with 18 hours ; thus reducing the residuals formerly obtained to four new residuaIs , the mean of which may be taken as the residual lunar diurnal variation for the quarters of the moon .
A similar process , using lines and of Tables 11 to 18 , in lieu of lines and , leads to the residual lunar diurnal variation for the eighths phases .
These residuals , for each quarter of the year and for both the gnetic elements , were found to be practically insignificant , the hourly numbers in all of them between the limits .
From this we conclude that , in each quarter of the year and for each magnetic element separately , our extended formula practically embodies the whole of the observed lunar diurrlal variation for the full lunation .
16 .
Coefficients of the halmoIlic equivalents of the typical variations , expressed in the form were calculated for each case , the data being taken from Tables 9 and 10 , and from lines and of Tables 11 to 18 , and their values are exhibited in Tables 19 and 20 .
TABLE 19 .
MAGNETIC ) CLINATION AND HORIZ O tfay t August to October . .
{ And from these coefficients were calculated the values of ; ; ; and for each pair of typical variations .
These quantities are the coefficients respectively , of our transformed formula in paragraph 13 ; and their values are entered in Tables 21 and 22 .
TABLE 21 .
TABLE 22 .
17 .
Regarding these numbers as the amplitudes of the eight simple waves whose periods are specified in paragraph 13 , we see that generally , and in a less degree \mdash ; which refer to the lunar half-day and the lunar day important elements of the whole luni-solar variation ; and scarcely less important are the elements that have the 's for their amplitudes : the numbers for the remaining five periods are generally smaller , though for none of them are they so small as to approach general insignificance .
18 .
Up to this point we have , in comparing our formula with observation , had to adapt to the purpose variations obtained for the period of the lunar day .
It would obviously be a direct procedure to arrange the so-called lunar differences of a given season in days , according to the age of the moon , and , although the labour of copying out the numbers so arranged , and of re-computing , is considerable , we have thought the verification of the results obtained by the indirect mode of pro- cedure of sufficient importance to justify the undertaking of the task , at least in respect of the element of declination , and for that season , November to January , when the luni-solar variations at Bombay have the largest raIlge .
Accordingly , abstract eets were prepared for the 1st , 2nd , 3rd , \amp ; c. , solar days after new moon , embracing all such days in the months November to January of the years 1846 to 1870 .
The hourly snms and means and the diurnal variations were then taken on each abstract sheet , with the results shown in Table 23 .
MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCE .
MR. C. CHAMBLRS ON LUNI-SOLNI VARIATIONS OF .
: .
MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCE . .
Q ) .
.32 MR. C. ON LUNI-SOLAR VARIATIONS OF MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HHORIZONTA FOORC . .
MR. C. CHAMBERS ON LUNI-SOLAR VARrATIONS OF MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HHORIZONTA FOOCC . .
C. CIIAMBERS ON LUNI-SOLAR VARIATIONS OF 21 .
The numbel .
S of Table 26 are curved in dotted lines in fig. 48 .
The general correspondence of , as indicated by the thin-line curve , with our as indicated by the dotted curves , cannot fail to arrest the attention of the reader ; and , whatever be the physical conditions lying behind the phenomena , it cannot but be helpful towards their discovery that a compact mental grasp of the phenomena , such as the formula affords , should lake the place of such notions of disconnected variations are the first outcome of a study of the observations .
22 .
The numbers of are curved in dotted lines in fig. 49 , and on the same form are curved , in lines , the observed lunar diurnal variations of horizontal takell from Column 2 of Tables 5 to 8 , for each of the eight phases of the moon .
Here .
the compal.ison of observation , as indicated by the thin-line curves , with the formula , through its representative dotted curves , shows kably close agreement .
23 .
That in their more prominent inflexions the dotted curves of fig. 48 are generally of er the thin-line curves is sufficiently explained by the fact that the typical variations for each phase are for three or four consecutive days , whilst the thin-line curves represent variations for first days , second , third days , \amp ; c. , after new moon\mdash ; all days of the moon 's age .
Indeed , it is easy to show that the typical variations , should have been multiplied by when derived from the observed variations at the quarters , and by when derived from the observed variations at the eighths phases ; and similarly thab , should have been by and by in the same two cases respectively .
The inadvertent omission to apply these factors is most influential in respect of the larger of them and , since the range of the , variations is much greater than that of the and .
24 .
In the case of the horizontal force curves ( fig. 49 ) the factors would , if applied , affect both the thick-line and the thin-line curves alike , the latter representing the data from which the former were constructed ; here , accordingly , the two sets of curves approach more nearly to identity of range .
MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCE .
25 .
The thick lines of figs. 48 and 49 have been drawn to represent the two last terms alone of our formula , viz. , of .
Noticing that they deviate but little from the tted lines , it may be inferred that the bulk of the systematic part of the variations is embraced by the restricted formula ; and accordingly it is to that part of the variation that goes through a cycle of change in half a lunation that attention should first be directed in seeking for efficient physical causes .
TREVANDRUM .
26 .
thus found that order and system of a simple kin pervade the tations of minute lunar variations of magnetic force at Bombay , we turn with interest to records of a similar nature obtained at the near , but more nearly magnetically equatorial , station of Trevandrum .
In a volume entitled : Observations of Magnetic Declination made at Trevandrum and Agustia ] in the Observatories of H. H. the MAHARAJAH of Travancore , ' and published by H. S. KING and Co. , of London , in 1874 , the late JOHN ALLAN BROUN discussed the declination observations made at Trevandrum during the ten years to 1864 , and\mdash ; by a method of his own , which is , in essential points , similar to that described in the preceding pages\mdash ; obtained values of the lunar diurnal variation ) for each month of the year and at each of the four quarters of the moon .
Curves representing these variations appear as Plate 6 of the volume , and a glance at those for the months December and January , which\mdash ; as at Bombay\mdash ; have the largest range , is sufficient to show that our formula would correctly represent their principal features at each of the four quarters of the moon ; indeed , those curves have a close resemblance to the corresponding winter curves for Bombay .
An inspection of the curves for all the months leads to a suspicion that a period of ten years is scarcely sufficient to secure a counterbalancing , in all months , of irregularities ; but , by combining the variations of those consecutive , the curves of which are similar in character , greater regularity is obtained , and the nature of the change of the typical variations with change of season is more distinctly brought out .
The grouping of months adopted with these objects in view was as follows , viz. :\mdash ; ( 1 ) December and January ; ( 2 ) February and March ; ( 3 ) April to June ; ( 4 ) July to September ; and ( 5 ) October and November .
The average lunar diurnal variations for these seyeral groups of months were calculated from the variations for individual months given in Tables XXXVII .
to .
( pages 125 and 126 ) of the book referred to .
These average variations , which were expressed in minutes of arc , were then converted into force by multiplying by an adopted value of the horizontal force at Trevandrum C.G.S. urlit and by sine 1 ' , with results that are exhibited in the .
Tnbles .
TABLE 28.\mdash ; Declination .
Trevandrum .
TABLE ination .
Trevandrum .
TABLE 30.\mdash ; Declination .
Trevandrum .
.\mdash ; Dedination .
Trevandrum .
MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCE .
December and January .
February and March .
April to June .
July to September .
* In mode of reduction the lunar day is divided into 26 uern .
TABLr 32.\mdash ; Declination .
Trevandrum .
27 .
By treating each of these sets of numbers in the manner described in paragraphs 8 TABLE These variations are curved in figs. 17 to 21 and 38 to 47 .
MAGNETIC DECLINATION AND HORIZONTAL FORCE .
October and November .
and 14 , the several values of the typical variations were obtained as follows:\mdash ; 33 .
28 .
On these cnrves we first remark that , as at Bombay , the tions of the quite subordin ate in magmtude to those of the type ; that the .
cve is twice reversed in the course of the year , and that , whilst for December it has a reater range than the corresponding winter curve ( ficrcb .
1 ) .
Bombay , the reyerse curye for July to September ( fig. 20 ) has a smaller than the corresponding autumn curve ( iig .
4 ) for Bombay .
The relation of the of the two stations generally is such that the superposition of a constant variation of the character of the winter curve , bub of smaller range , upon the Bombay curves for each season would convert these into curves having the same principal characteristics as those of the same season for Trevandrum ; and , in agreement with this , the reversal in the first half of the year occurs later at Trevandrum than at Bombay , and the reversal in the last half-year occurs earlier than at Bombay .
And here again we must insist on the reality of the variations now brought to light as true physical phenomena , which exhibit themselves not alone at a single point on the earth 's surface , but are ] marked in the observations of two tions that differ by nearly ten degrees in latitude , and the observatories at which were necessarily furnished with independent instruments , and had independent directors .
POSTSCRIPT .
( Added September 23 , 1886 .
) The late JOHN ALLAN BROUN , in discussing the Trevandrum observations for the ten years 1854 to 1864 , came to the conclusion that in the lunar diurnal variations of in each month of the year the amount of movement is , as in the solar diurnal variation , greater during the day than during the night ; and the writer of this paper has shown in it that in each of four seasons of the year the same holds at Bombay with respect both to the declination and horizontal force .
Whilst admitting , however , that BROUN has priority of publication of this fact as regards the declination at Trevandrum , the iter avers that he has in no way been guided by BROUN'S previous lnvestigatior , nor was he aware of the existence of BROUN'S paper*when he made the discovery with respect to the declination at Bombay .
Moreover , the 's line of investigation was that of SABINE , modified.by himself , and not that of BROUN ; and an account of the first results of its employment was read before the Royal Society on the 1st February , 1872 , a date antecedent to the reading of BROUN'S paper before the Royal Society of Edinburgh , which did not take place till the 6th May , 1872 .
The writer also readily acknowledges that in the paper lready referred to BROUN enunciated some relations of the movements near sunrise in the diurnal variations of declination in different months , which relations fit in well with the idea of a luni-solar variation when once that idea is conceived ; but he finds * Trnnsacbions of the Royal Society of ' vol. 26 , DECLINATION AND no trace of that idea in any of BROUN'S writings .
Neither does he find in BROUN'S writings any of the following results that are described in the present paper , .
:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The discovery of relations subsisting between the lunar diul.nal variation of declination as at one phase of a lunation with bhe same at other phases in each season of the year [ this as distinguished from the movements occur near sunrise , and the nature of which was described by BROUN ] .
( 2 .
) The that a part , being the bulk of the whole , of the lunar diurnal variation runs a cycle of change in a lunation ; to this part the name of the luni-solar variation is given .
( 8 .
) A hypothesis is hypothesis of phenomenal relations and not of physical causation\mdash ; that the luni-solar variation of a given season is a combination of solar diurnal variations of constant types that go through cycles of wave-like change of amplitude in the periods of a lunation , half a lunation , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , and a nula is found to give expression to this hypothesis .
( 4 .
) Following up this hypothesis , the observations of declination for the November to January of the years 1846 to 1870 are divided into categories of solar days according to the age of the moon ; and excess solar diurnal variation\mdash ; the excess over the mean soIar diurnal variation for the approximate full lunation\mdash ; is entered in the Tables for each day , and the mean value is calculat , ed for each category .
Curves representing these mean excess solar diurnal variations for each of the moon 's age are found to agree fairly well with the formula expressing the variation of the quarter Noyember to a result which tendk to confirm hypothesis .
( 5 .
) The mode of change , from season to season , of the character of the elements of the luni-solar variations is described .
( 6 .
) All the results , without exception , of the investigation with reference to the lunar variations of horizontal force must be placed on this list .
( 7 .
) That the luni-solar variations of declination are related to those of the horizontal force in the following manner , In the winter season the luni-solar variation of declination due to any phase of the moon is similar to the luni-solar variation of horizontal force due to a phase later by one-eighth of a lunation ; and ( b ) in the summer and autumn seasons it is , on the other hand , the luni-solar variations of horizontal force that precede by an eighth of a lunation the similar variations of declination .
( 8 .
) It is shown that , when the Bombay observations have pointed the way , BROUN'S determinations of the lunar diurnal variations of declination at Trevandrum for the four quarters of the moon in each month of the year , when properly treated , support the hypothesis of result ( 3 ) .
' / ../ !
Phvl .
Troens .
1887 .
A. Platz 3 .
A , ' by of of ooo nexmP ' Wesl , .
A. Gxxves , for for porb of of a cyc\amp ; \amp ; x/ 77/ ' ' A ' ' ' ' 1/ ' ?
I L$ , -s / / , , , , / ( / / \ldquo ;

