]\gt ; The of the and Atrnospheric Radiation .
By E. GOLD , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , , and Reader in ( Communicated by Dr. W. N. Shaw , F.R.S. Received October 5 , \mdash ; Read December 10 , 1908 .
) I. The of the Isothermal liay and the Experi tncntal of its Existence .
The ation of the upper air by means of balloons carrying selfinstruments , which have furnished values for the atmospheric temperature up to between 15 and 20 kilometres , ha revealed the existence of an abnormal change in the vertical temperature gradient .
After a fairly uniform fall , with altitude , of about C. per kilometre , a height is reached above which the temperature very little , sometimes increasing , sometimes slowly .
The phenomenon was first noticed by M. Teisserenc de Bort*in a communication to the Societe de Physique in June , 1899 .
He improved his apparatus and made further investigations , in many cases up the balloons by night to eliminate any possible insolation effects .
He foumd the average , at which the change began , to be about 11 kilometres .
He discovered also that the height was greater near the centre of high pressure areas than in low pressure areas , the average heights for the two cases being and 10 kilometres respectively .
More recently he found that the height increased with approach towards the equator and that near the equator , ballons-soncles , ascending to kilometres , had failed to reach this layer if it existed there .
He proposed to call this layer , in which little temperature occurred , the ' Isothermal Layer of the Atmosphere , 't and the name has been generally accepted .
The main results have been corroborated by other observers .
In September , 1906 , a series of ascents was made at Milan , in which the isothermal layer was reached at heights varying from 8 to 13 kilometres and at tempera'tures between C. and C. The smaller heights and 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 134 , April , 1902 ; vol. 138 , January , 1904 ; vol. 145 , July , 1907 .
The term " " isothermal layer\ldquo ; is slightly misleading , inasmuch as it appears to produce the conception of a definite stratum of uniform temperature lying between two regions where the temperature decreases at a rate approximately adiabatic .
The term " " isothermal region suggested by Prof. H. H. Turner , is free from this objection .
Mr. E. Gold .
The of the [ Oct. 5 , higher temperatures were found generally over low pressure areas and the greater heights and lower teulperatures accompanied anticyclonic conditions .
Over Berlin , 1906 , the height at which the layer was reached varied from 10 to 13 kilometres and the temperatures were between C. and C. , the average being C. These ascents were made at different times of the year , but in all cases during anticyclonic conditions or on the outer of a cyclone advancing from the west .
This may account for fact that the layer was not found at smaller heights in any of the ascents .
In England , during 1907 , the height of the layer varied between 8 and kilometres and the temperatures between C. and C. , the mean height being about 11 kilometres and the mean temperature The was generally less than the average over low pressure areas , although there were anomalies , notably on November 11 , when the height increased fhtly and the temperature diminished rapidly in passing from Ditcham Park , which was on the ridge between two low pressure areas , to Manchester , which was under the influence of the northerly system whose centre was between Iceland and Norway .
The layer has also been reached in Lapland , the Arctic circle ( and simultaneously at Trappes , near Paris ) , at crhts varying from 8 to 12 kilometres ; also by otch , S in America , in latitude N. , where the average height appears to be greater than in Europe .
Further , in an ascent near Brussels ) July , 1907 , the layer was found to extend with slightly increasing temperature from 12 to 26 kilometres altitude and near Strassburg in 1905 , the temperature recorded at 26 kilometres was higher than that at 14 kilometres .
There can be no question , therefore , of its being merely a local or temporary phenomenon .
It is clear that there cannot be convection curreuts to any marked extent in this region , and I propose to show that in an atmosphere which is not transparent but absorbs and emits radiation , the process of radiation would prevent the establishment of the temperature gradient necessary for conyective equilibrium , in the upper layers of the atmosphere ; and that in the lower layers of our atmosphere it can be maintained only by transference of energy from the earth to the atmosphere by direct convection or by the process of evaporation of water at the earth 's surface and subsequent 'Ergebnisse der Arbeiten des Koniglich Preussischen Aeronautischen Observatoriums , ' 1906 .
Petavel and Harwood , 'Quart .
Journ. Roy .
Met .
Soc January , 1908 ; Dines , ' Nature , ' February 27 , 1908 .
' Met .
Zeit 1907 , pp. 498 , 499 .
S .
cit. ibid. , 1907 , p. 366 .
1908 .
] Atmosphere and Atmospheric condensation in the atmosphere .
The heat necessary for the evaporation of water-vapour at the earth 's surface is supplied mainly by absorption of solar radiation and is not aken from the atmosphere , but the heat given up on condensation is added almost entirely to the heat of the atmosphere , and in this way we get a supply of heat to the atmosphel.e at a rate that may be estimated approximately from the annual rainfall .
II .
Gcneral of the Possible ibution s in an Atmosphere .
Summary of now reached .
It is clear that if the atmosphere were transpal'ent to radiation of all wave-lengths a state of convective equiiibrium would exist up to a certain limit , after which the collision frequency would be too small to admit of mass-acvitation and the permanent state of this outer layer would be one of conductive equilibrium .
But this state could only persist so as the temperature of the earth was , because there would be a continuous flow of heat outwards by conduction .
This would produce an accumulation of heat in the upper layers of the conyective atmosphere , and the adiabatic temperature gradient could be maintained only by up the lower layers ; since if we assume that there is no radiation from the atnlosphere , the difference of temperature could not be renewed by } the upper layers .
If , however , the temperature varied over the surface of the earth a persistent limited convection would be } ) , provided that the lowest surface temperatures were below the upper air temperatures , so that conduction of heat took place downwards over these regions and balanced the upward conduction over those places where convective equilibrium The temperature of the earth in that case would be such that the heat radiated into space would balance the incident solar radiation absorbed by it .
The minimum possible value would be obtained by taking the earth to be a full radiator for its own temperature .
The effect of clouds would be to diminish the mean temperature owing to their greater reflecting power for solar radiation .
They would either transmit the earth 's radiation or act themselves as radiators for the wave-lengths absorbed .
The reflection of radiation of long wave-length would be small .
But if we have an atmosphere which and radiates there will be a theoretical temperature distribution in which there is equilibrium between the and absorl ) tion of each elenrent .
We may describe such a state as one of radiation equilibrium .
If the vertical telnperature gradient for this state is less corresponding to convective equilibrium , it will be ) possible for the Cter state to persist and the atmosphere will tend to radiation Mr. E. Gold .
The Isothermal Layer of the [ Oct. 5 , There may , however , be a limited convective equilibrium arising from causes which supply sufficient energy to balance the excess of the radiation in the convective state .
An example will suffice to explain this .
Suppose the state of radiation equilibrium were isothermal , and that in this condition the atmospheric radiation just balanced the absorption of solar and terrestrial radiation .
Consider , now , the effect of a direct communication of heat to the atmosphere at a definite rate at the earth 's surface .
The temperature of the lower layers of the atmosphere would be raised and a state of convective equilibrium would supervene , but only up to a sufficiently great for the increased atmospheric radiation , due to increased temperature , to balance the energy supplied .
The assumptions which form the basis of the theory developed in the following sections are these:\mdash ; ( i ) The constituents of the atmosphere radiate for the same for which they absorb , and according to the thermal law .
( ii ) The curvature of the earth 's surface may be neglected in considering radiation in the atmosphere .
( iii ) Owing to the large portion of the spectrum which the constituents of the atmosphere radiate , their radiations may be taken to be proportional to the fourth power of the absolute temperature .
This I attempt to justify by the experimental data in Section III .
( iv ) The temperature in the adiabatic state may be represented sufficiently closely by the equation , in which is taken to be 4 instead of theoretical value for dry air .
v ) A necessary condition ( .
supra ) for convection , which forms the keystone of the present discussion , is that , in the upper part of the convective system , the radiation from any horizontal layer ( or any elementary sphere ) should exceed the absorption by it .
( vi ) Where convection is absent the outward and vard radiations across any horizontal plane are equal , conduction being so slow as to be negligible .
( vii ) The power of the earth 's atmosphere diminishes with height owing to the diminution in the proportional amount of waGer-vapour present , and it may be represented with tolerable approximation by ; where and are constants and is pressure .
The principal results obtained are as follows:\mdash ; ( a ) By the use of ( i ) and ( ii ) alone , general expressions are found for the intensity of atmospheric , terrestrial , and solar radiation at any point in the atmosphere ; and for the absorption and emission by any horizontal layer of finite thickness .
The conditions for convection to be possible and for thermal equilibrium in the absence of convection are also found .
1908 .
] Atmosph ere Atmospheric ( b ) By the introduction of ( iii ) to ( vi ) it is proved that , for an atmosphere uniform in constitution , the adiabatic state could not extend to a height reater than that for which , where is the surface pressure .
It is also proved that , if the atmosphere were isothermal , the absorption of solar radiation in any layer of it , beginning from , would be equal to the sorption of terrestrial and atmospheric radiation , and each would be equal to the radiation in either direction from the layer .
By the use of ( vii ) it is proved that for the earth 's actual atmosphere the height to the adiabatic state can extend is limited .
Values deduced from the experimental evidence are then substituted for and it is found that if the atmosphere consist of two shells , the inner in the adiabatic , the outer in the isothermal , state : ( i ) the inner cannot extend to a reater than that for which ( 10,500 metres ) ; ( 2 ) the innel must extend to a height greater than that for which ( metres ) .
( d ) It is shown that the radiation from the lower layers of the atmosphere exceeds absorption by them , and that the deficiency of energy is such that it could be supplied by conyection from the earth 's surface , and by condensation of water-vapour .
The deficiency for the layer to is practically yible , that convection above will be very slight .
( e ) Minimum possible temperatures for any point in the atmosphere over a place at A. ( absolute ) are A. or 20 A. , as the atmosphere radiates throughout the spectrum or only for a part of it per cent. of the energy of full radiation for its tenlperature .
values are deduced from what would be the radiation intensity across the upper strata of the atmosphere , supposing it were maintained in adiabatic throughout .
For this radiation must correspond to a temperature which is less than that for any other possible temperature distribution , when the surface temperature is III .
Data on Gaseous Radiation Absorption .
Before to formulate the conditions of radiation equilibrium and to obtain expressions for the intensity of atmospheric radiation , it will be convenient to describe briefly the results of experiments on the radiation and absorption of the constituents of the atmosphere .
The pioneer in this region of research was Tyndall , conducted a series of careful and elaborate experiments with gases contained in tubes closed by rock-salt plates .
He used as his sources a Leslie 's cube at 10 C. , and a copper plate heated to about 20 C. , and measured the radiation by a thermopile .
He found large 'Contributions to Molecular Physics .
' Mr. E. Gold .
The Isothermal of the [ Oct. 5 , absorption by water-vapour and , but practically no absorption by oxygen and nitrogen .
He found also that ozone exercised a remarkable absorbing power .
Except for the results of his observations on these yases are mainly qualitative in character and designed to show the greater absorbing power of dalnp air .
Arrhenius*used a tube 50 cm .
long and examined the absorption of at various pressures for radiation from sources at and C. His results fairly well with Tyndall 's , the absorption for a path length of cm .
at atmospheric pressure about 10 per cent. for the 10 C. source and 15 per cent. for the C. source .
J. measured the absorption by in tubes of different lengths at three different pressures , 380 , 760 , and 1520 mm. Koch 's results proved what had previously been pointed out by that the absorption depends on the density of the gas as well as on the total mass of gas in the path of the radiation .
ngstrom found that a tube 1 metre long , containing at a pressure of 4 atmospheres , absorbed per cent. of the radiation from a source at 30 C. , while a tube 4 metres , containing at a pressure of 1 atmosphere , absorbed only per cent. of the radiation from the same source .
The effect of this remarkable result can also be seen in Tyndall 's observations ; but it is complicated by his use of a different source in his experiments at constant pressure .
The distribution of absorption bands in the spectrum has been the subject of researches by Angstrom , S Paschen and ubens and Aschkinass .
Absorption bands were discoyered from to to , and to 16 .
The last is the most important for radiation at terrestrial temperatures .
The absorption in a path 22 cm .
for radiation from a zirconium mantle was per cent. at the maximum and per cent. on the average for the to .
For a path of 65 cm .
there was total absorption from 14 to , the at atmospheric pressure and temperature .
The absorption by 33 .
of gas at atmosl ) heric pressure and temperature for the band to was 90 per cent. , and for the band to and the same layer it was 40 per cent. , the source ) hot blackened platinum .
has investigated the on the absorption bands of varying the pressure .
He found that the bands were .
widened by the 'Ann .
der Physik , ' vol. 4 , 1901 , Ofversigt af K. Vet .
Akad .
, p. fversigt , ' 1901 , p. 378 .
S 'Ann .
der Physik , ' 1894 , vols .
) , 53 .
ournal , ' 1898 .
'Ann .
der Phyhik , ' vol. 16 , 1905 .
1908 .
] Atmosphere Atmospheric pressure , while an increase in the length of path sufficient to make the mass of in the path of the radiation the same as when the pressure was increased did not produce this widening .
He concludes that a variation in the amount of in the atmosphere would not materially affect its absorbing power for solar radiation , since the amount present , equivalent for vertical transmission to a path of 250 cm .
at a pressure of 760 mm. , is much more than sufficient to exert full absorption for the width of band corresponding to the density of in the atmosphere .
The principal feature of water-vapour absorption is the number of spectral regions in which it occurs .
The bands up to in the solar spectrum have been carefully observed by Abney , Langley , others .
Paschen observed the bands up to 10 as source a blackened iron plate at 40 C. Bubens and Aschkinass measured the absorption between 10 and 20 , and at 24 , using as source a zirconium mantle .
The following table gives the absorption for different wavelengths by a 7 cm .
layer of water-vapour at 10 C. and atmospheric pressure , deduced from Paschen 's observations .
If the ption by the water-vapour in the atmosphere were given by 100 , where is the of water-vapour in the path of the radiation and is a constant , different for different , deduced from these results , we find that for an atmosphere of average humidity water-vapour equivalent to a layer of liquid water 2 cm .
thick , there would be total absorption for wave-lengths 5 to 8 From the observations of Rubens and Aschkinass we deduce the following values for the absorption by cm .
of water-vapour at C. and atmospheric pressure .
Mr. E. Gold .
The Layer of the [ Oct. 5 , Of the remaining constituents of the atmosphere , ozone is the only one which shows considerable absorption .
Tyndall* found ozone exercised a remarkable absorption for his low temperature radiation .
E. Meyer observed the absorption by ozone of short wave-length radiation .
Taking the ozone in the atmosphere to be milligrammes per kilogramme of air , the following table gives approximately the percentage absorption for vertical transmission for different ] engths , according to Meyer 's results:\mdash ; .
A. per cent. .
A. per cent. found no ozone absorption bands between wave-lengths and .
He found bands at Sharp , Uncertain , Weaker , 9 to Verv strong , and no further bands up to 14 The band 9 to 10 corresponds to an absorption band found by Langley in his work on the temperature of the moon ; and as there are no bands there , and the water-vapour absorption is weakest in that part of the spectrum , the existence of this band is incidentally strong evidence of the presence of a considerable quantity of ozone in the atmosphere .
The oricD of this is possibly indicated by an observation of Fr. Fischer , S who found that ozone was formed by the action of ultra-violet light as well as by electric discharge .
Ladenberg and Lehmann verified Angstrom 's results for ozone absorption at and 9 to 10 , and obtained additional maxima of absorption at , but these were weak compared with the 9 to band .
von BahrlT measured the absorption of low temperature radiation by ozone .
The percentage of the total radiation absorbed approached an asymptotic value as the ozone in the path was increased .
This asymptotic value agreed with the assumption that the absorption took place in two bands , to and to * Tyndall , Contributions , ' p. 102 .
Ann. der Physik , ' vol. 12 , 1903 , p. 856 .
'Arkiv for Matematik Ast .
och Fysik , ' vol. 1 , 1903\mdash ; 4 , pp. 34 395 .
S 'Ann .
der Physik , ' 1903 .
Ibid. , 1906 , vol. 21 , p. 313 .
'Arkiv for Ast .
och Fysik , ' vol. 3 , 1907 , No. 15 .
1908 .
] Atmosphere and Atmospheric measured the absorption by 100 metres of air , relative humidity 60 per cent. , dew point C. , iving water-vapour in the path equivalent to cm .
of hquid water .
He found 21 per cent. of the radiation from a C. source was absorbed .
With air of different rees of dampness he found the following results , where is the equivalent amount of liquid water in the path : A. mm. per cent. 0 .
, , 14.6 The observations of the absorbing power of the diff'erent gases are nol .
entirely in accordance with one another , and it appears that the absorption by water-vapour , as well as that by , depends on the density as well as on the total absorbing nlass .
If we use the results obtained , we find that for , at a pressure less than 760 mm. , the maximum possible absorption for radiation from a C. source in the bands discovered is about 18 per cent. of the complete energy in the spectrum of a perfect emitter , as iven by Planck 's formula , , where being measul'edJ in terms of mm This rees nearly with the value obtained by Ekholm for the absorption by in the atmosphere , by Koch 's results for the absorption of the total radiation .
we apply the results of Paschen and Rubens and Aschkinass , we find that the water-vapour in the atmosphere would absorb 95 per cent. of the earth 's radiation for vertical transmission , but if we assume that the apparent absorption between 8 and is spurious , we find that 25 per cent. is transmitted .
If we use 's observations and assume that the absorption place throughout the spectrum , we fi1ld 94 per cent. of earth radiation absorbed in vertical transmission .
no absorption between 8 to , we per cent. of the total radiation absorbed .
To obtain an estimate of the possible absorption of solar radiation , it is necessary to know the distribution of in the solar spectrum .
I have for this purpose assumed that the effective temperature of solar radiation varies with the wave-length and is given by the equation , where is measured in terms of .
With this value of and Planck 's formula find a value for the solar constant ( the value .
to the best recent 'Memoirs Not .
Acad vol. 4 , Ninth Memoir , p. 184 .
' Met .
Zeit 1902 , p. 496 .
Mr. E. Gold .
The Layer of the [ Oct. 5 , determinations is and a maximum intensity at wave-length agreeing with Langley 's estimate .
The following table gives the values of the intensity of radiation at different wave-lengths calculated on this sssumption : .
With these values of we find the following values for the percentage amount of solar radiation absorbed in vertical transmission , the water-vapour in the path being equivalent to 2 cm .
of liquid water:\mdash ; Thus the absorption of solar radiation would be about 12 per cent. for zenith sun ; and about 10- per cent. for low sun , when the absorption in the bands would be full .
The largest observed percentage absorption of solar radiation by water-vapour , given in the 'Annals , ' etc. , is per cent. , the transmission being atmosphe .
res and the surface vapour pressure being mm. The radiation from .
gases has formed the subject of researches by Maurer , ' Annals of the Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institntion , ' vol. 2 , 1908 .
Vol. 2 , 1908 , p. 131 .
See ' Met .
Zeit 1901 , p. 223 .
1908 .
] A tmosphere Atmospheric Radiation .
and Pearson , * Paschen , and Very .
From meteoroIogical ervations , Maurer deduced that an air layer 1 cm .
thick radiated to another at 1o C. lower temperature gm . .
per hour from each cm.2 of surface .
This agrees with the value deducible from 's observations on absorption for air of 60 per cent. relative humidity and C. dew-point , on the assumption that absorption and emission follow the same law and that the intensity of radiation varies as the fourth power of the absolute temperature .
From the experiments of Hutchins and Pearson on the radiation from a hot air column , the corresponding radiation be Paschen 's results are chiefly of importance as identifying the spectral regions of emission with those of absorption for the same gases .
found from his experiments a value gm . .
per hour , a yalue intermediate between that of Maurer , and Hutchins and Pearson .
The experiments on which Very relies for his results were made by enclosing the air in a tube with a moveable radiating disc and a rock salt face .
The tube was heated from below by Bunsen burners and the radiation was observed first with the disc near to the rock salt and secondly with the disc drawn back so that a layer of air intervened in the path of the radiation .
It is assumed that the radiation from this air is measured by the difference , corrected for absorption , between the total radiation in the two positions , no radiation from the walls of the tube reaching the bolometer .
Now if the gas and the disc have the same temperature and the disc radiates fully ( the disc used was blackened copper ) , it appears certain that the gas will absorb just as much disc radiation as it itself radiates .
Any additional radiation , therefore , in the second position , must have been due to a change in the temperature of the solid parts or to an excess in the temperature of the over that of the disc , and of this no account is taken .
We shall therefore assume that the absorption results are the more correct and utilize them in the application to the atmosphere .
IV .
Gmeral Expressions for the Badiation from the Atmosphere , and Conditions of its Let us consider the radiation and absorption in a gas stratified in horizontal layers in which the pressure at any point is due to the weight of the gas above it .
Since the radiations are thermal , the emission will follow the same law as the absorption .
Thus if an element of gas of mass 'Amer .
Journ. of Sci 1904 , p. 277 .
Paschen , ' Ann. der Physik , ' 1894 .
Very , ' Atmospheric Radiation .
' Mr. E. Gold .
The Isothermal of the [ Oct. 5 , occupying an element of volume of unit sectional area and thickness emits radiation of wave-length equal to , where is the intensity .of radiation of wave-length for a full radiator at the temperature of the gas , them the same element will absorb radiation if radiation of wave-length is incident normally on unit area .
For the absorption by .a length of the gas we find at once , on putting , the expression , where and a value for the emission .
Divide up the gas into horizontal layers across which the pressure change is so that the mass of gas in each layer is proportional to .
The intensity of radiation from a layer at pressure emitted in a direction inclined at an angle to the normal will be , per unit area , The intensity of this at a point at pressure and distant from the layer will be This will also be the amount entering a spherical element of radius at the point ; and we get , for the whole amount of radiation from the layer entering such an element per unit time , , say .
Thel'efore from the whole mass of gas situated above the layer we get radiation of wave-length entering the element per unit time , Similarly , from the gas below the element we get , For the radiation crossing unit area of a horizontal plane at downwards and upwards we find respectively , 1908 .
] Atmosphere and Radiation .
For the radiation from the earth entering the spherical element and crossing unit area of a horizontal plane , upwards , we get .
The corresponding values arising from the ayerage direct intensity of solar radiation are where and is latitude and declination .
Now the absorption , by a spherical element , of a strealu of radiation is Jbfzd , where is the length of path in the sphere , i.e. , it is volume of sphere .
But radiation from the element is The condition of radiation equilibrium is therefore , ( I ) where may vary with , expressing that the radiation absorbed in the spherical element must be equal to that emitted : it is included in the condition , ( II ) expressing that the outward and inward radiations across any horizontal must be equal to each other .
If we take of the scattering and reflexion of direct solar radiation , we must subtract from the ayerage vertical component of this and add to its average intensity .
If , instead of using the spherical element , we wish to deal only with horizontal layers , we must find the absorption of radiation in such a layer .
Leb us then consider the absorption of the radiation from a layer from .
to by a layer to .
The radiation entering the second layer in a direction inclined at an to the vertical is per unit and the total amount absorbed will be .
E. Gold .
The lsotherm of the [ Oct. 5 , Putting , we find , or Therefore , where Similarly , for the absorption of radiation from a layer to below the absorbing layer , we find where If we put , we obtain the expressions for the total atmospheric radiation absorbed in any layer .
We will use with this special meaning .
The earth radiation absorbed in the layer is , and the radiation absorbed is where is ( vide supra ) with substituted for The radiation from the layer is , per unit area , , say .
Thus we may replace the first condition by where the integration extends to all .
We shall need both forms of the condition infra .
The writer has verified analytically that I can be deduced from III and that II follows from III if we introduce the condition that the downward and upward radiations balance at the earth 's surface .
1908 .
] Atmosphere and Atmospheric Radiation .
If convection takes place in the it must always involve a flow of heat upwards from the lower layers .
Further , any upper layer receives at least as much heat as it loses by convection , and generally more .
Consequently , the effect of convection would be to add a positive term to the right-hand side of II and to the left-hand side of III , i.e. , convection is only possible if everywhere in the actual state , and at the same time for the upper layers .
pplication to an Atmosphere of UniJorm C. Impossibility of jctive Elibrium tsuch an Atmospher If we have an isothermal atmosphere , we find the following expressions for , etc. , on putting , , , , , .
It is .
to be noted that and are independent of the temperature distribution in the gas .
Substituting in equation III , we find Mr. E. Gold .
The Isothermal of the [ Oct. 5 , or if If we put , we see that the solar radiation absorbed in the atmosphere must be equal to the terrestrial radiation absorbed and each must be equal to one-half the radiation from the atmosphere .
urther , the solar radiation absorbed in any layer of the atmosphere , starting from , must be equal to one-half the radiation from that layer .
Again , if we substitute in equation II , we iind and if is small this becomes or the temperature for the isothermal state must be such that a full radiator at that temperature would radiate with an intensity equal to the average vertical component of the intensity of solar radiation .
For a dry atmosphere in convective equilibrium we have , be temperature , nearly , where , and consequeutly .
We cannot rate our results for thia value of , but remembering that near the maximum and that , we may put as an approximation , corresponding to a temperature diminution rather slower than that for dry air in the convective state .
Let us also take to be constant , i.e. , assume that there is no in the constitution of the atmosphere with change of height .
We find , then , for the values of , etc. , , subscripts , here I refers to the temperature at 1908 .
] Atmosphere and Atmospheric Taking I and substituting in equations I and II , we find .
( i ) and .
( ii ) But if , the left-hand side of ( i ) is always positive , and , consequently , for all altitudes at which the pressure is less than half the surface pressure , the absorption exceeds the radiation and the state of conyectiye equilibrium could not persist .
Moreover , the -hand side of ( ii ) ] the same value at both limits of the atmosphere , and therefore there could be no absorption of solar adiatiou in an atmosphere of uniform constitution in convective equilibrium .
The values of X , in this case are as follows:\mdash ; X .
Therefore , putting , we get for the value 'or Now this represents the excess of the absorption over the radiation for any layer , apart from absorption of solar radiation .
But by h.ypothesis , and therefore any layer for which absorbs more radiation than it emits .
Clearly , if the radiation decreases with height at a rate faster than that assumed , the decrease in the radiation received lawyer will be less than the decrease in that emitted by the layer , so that in the upper half of the atmosphere the absorption would exceed the radiation and the temperature would rise .
Moreover , if the temperature of the upper layers rises , the absorption of radiation near will also rise , and therefore the rise in temperature must extend at least as far as if the lower layers are to be in convective equilibrium .
Therefore , in an atmosphere of un iform Mr. E. Gold .
The Isothermal of the [ Oct. constitution , the rate of temperature diminution corresponding to convective equilibrium cannot be maintained to a greater than that for which the pressure is half the surface pressure .
VI .
Application to the Earth 's Atphre , taking into account the Diminution of Water-vapour with Height .
Limits to which Convective Equilibrium can subsist .
We proceed to take into account the fact that in the atmosphere itself there is a rapid diminution in the proportion of water-vapour present as the height increases .
There is therefore a decrease in the value of with increasing height .
We may represent this approximately by taking equal to , , where and are constants .
We get , then , and similar expressions for , while If is constant , with similar expressions for and Q. Writing , we get and similar expressions for , while Substituting in equation I ) , we get , after reduction , Now near , and so that the term involving becomes positive , indicating that , even apart 1908 .
] Atmosphere and At nospheric Radiation .
from absorption of solar radiation , there is an excess of absorption over radiation .
The upper layers therefore be warmed up , so that with the modified value of also the state cannot exist hout the atmosphere .
To find we notice that and Substituting these values , we find If we put , this gives the excess of absorption over radiation in the atmospheric layer from the outer limit to a place at pressure .
On simplifying , we find that the sign of the integrand is always positive .
Thus , under the condition , any such layer of the atmosphere would absorb more radiation than it emitted , even apart from solar radiation .
It is therefore tcertain that if in the lower part of the atmosphere , in the upper part the temperature must be considerably greater than would correspond to such a radiation law .
If we put , we get for the excess of absorption over radiation in the layer extending from the earth to a point at pressure .and this must be negative if the state is to hold up to .
Also , if it is negative , its value must not be greater than the absorbed solar radiation plus the energy convected from the earth 's surface .
The values of and will vary for different wave-lengths , but to obtain an approximate result we may take mean values for these quantities .
We therefore put , which gives a diminution in the absorption more rapid than the observed diminution in the proportion of water-vapour present .
We will consider also the case , for which the rate of decrease : slower than that of water-vapour .
Mr. E. Gold .
The lsothermat Layer of the [ Oct. 5 , The intensity of the transmitted radiation for a vertical path bears to the initial intensity the ratio , or fqr the values of taken above , and respectively .
Langley*estimates the transmitted radiation to be and to but states that his estimate is probably too high .
Lowell takes the absorption of terrestrial radiation to be , and is followed by Poynting .
( i ) Let us assume that per cent. of the radiation is transmitte , freely without absorption , and that -thirds of the remainder is absorbed in vertical transmission .
This gives and for the values of taken .
( ii ) Let us take the absorption to extend throughout the spectrum and to be such that at the surface 100 metres of air of humidity absorbs 20 per cent. of the low temperature radiation passing through it , in accordance with 's observations .
This gives and 4 for the two values of For the purpose of calculation we use the following table , iving the values of for ?
, 2 , 3 and different values of .
The values for are given by J. W. L. GlaisherS :\mdash ; 1908 .
] Atmosphere and Atmospheric We observe also that ' where and .
have , too , and if and Bu6 if , we have ince L , where is Euler 's constant .
* Thus putting for , we find for the value of the integral We denote by , etc. , the values of , etc. , and we calculate values for I constanlt and for .
The values are given in order corresponding to the four values of ; the first pair corresponds to , and the second pair to At or or For constant I , ; * Bromwich , 'Infinite Series , ' p. 460 .
Mr. E. Gold .
The Isothermal oj the [ Oct. 5 , We notice here a somewhat surprising result .
Since the value of in aease ( 4 ) \mdash ; is always greater than the value for the corresponding pressure in case ( 2 ) \mdash ; the radiation from any .element of an atmosphere corresponding to case ( 4 ) is greater than the radiation for the corresponding element in case ( 2 ) .
Yet the outward the whole atmosphere in case ( 4 ) is considerably less than in .case ( 2 ) .
The values of and for the four cases are given by ; Now the values of at when are less than for any other part of the atmosphere for any possible temperature distribution with the same surface temperature .
But the radiation from any element must be greater than the amount of .
Thus if and we remember that in cases ( 1 ) , ( 3 ) only 75 per cent. of the radiation suffers absorption , we find as lower limits for I ' , where I ' is the radiation intensity of a full radiator at the temperature of the element .
If I correspond to a temperature 30 A. , the lower limits for the temperature at any point in the atmosphere are therefore , 15 A. At the earth 's surface , or .
and For constant I , ; and For ; and At or or For constant I , For Also if denote the radiation to earth from the layer extending up to and , the radiation to space of the upper half of the atmosphere , we find for I oe 0\amp ; rI , 1908 .
] Atmosphere and A By applying the results of S for , we find for the atmospheric 1adiation absorbed in this upper layer , The terrestrial radiation absorbed in the layer is Hence if , the total absorption , apart from that of solar radiation , is radiation from the layer in case is downwards , upwards , or in all .
As we expect , the total radiation is less than the total absorption .
If the were isothermal the amount of absorption by it would be the same , but the radiation would be in each direction , where is the intensity of radiation corresponding to the temperature of the layer , i.e. is , since in the lower layer .
The radiation would therefore exceed the absorption by These amounts are too large to be supplied by the absorption of solar radiation in the upper half of the atmosphere , and we conclude that we could not have the isothermal state for so large a part of the upper atmosphere .
If such a state existed at any time the temperature of the layer would fall , and this would allow the convection currents of the lower atmosphere to penetrate to greater heights and establish the state in the lower part of ] layer .
We proceed to consider the case when the diyision is taken to be at .
For or or For constant For VOL. LXXXII.\mdash ; A. Mr. E. Gold .
The lsothermal Layer of the [ Oct. 5 , If denote the radiation to earth of the layer 4 to and the radiation to space of the layer 4 to , we find ; We find as above for the atmospheric and terrestrial radiation absorbed in the upper lay er , giving for the total absorption , apart from that of solar radiation if The radiation from the layer if the law still held would be which is much less than the absorption .
If this layer were isothermal , the radiation from it in each direction would be where corresponds to the temperature of the layer , i.e. , I. The radiation is therefore and does not exceed the absorption apart from that of solar radiation .
We conclude that if the outer layer of the atmosphere is isothermal it must extend at least until the layer is reached .
It appears also that the greater the power of the atmosphere for terrestrial radiation the greater will be the height at which the isotbermal condition begins , apart from other considerations .
The radiation from the layer to is down , up , or in all .
The absorption in it is from the outer layer , and from the earth , or if The radiation therefore exceeds the absorption in this layer by 1908 .
Atmospnere A and this must be made up by absorption of solar radiation and by convection of from the earth 's surface either in the form of warmed air or water vapour .
If we take the mean value to be , and assume that solar radiation and convection are absent , and that in consequence the temperature of the layer falls uniformly , the fall per minute is , or about 1o C. in 24 hours if I correspond to a temperature 30 A. The radiation to earth from the atmosphere if up to , and is constant afterwards , is Frol measurements made at urich by Maurer , was found that the radiation from the atmosphere was calories per minute , the air tennperature C. , and the of the observing station being 440 metres above M.S.L. This gives a down radiation equal to Similar measurements made at Rauris ( 950 metres ) , at a temperature of C. , gave for the atmospheric radiation calories per minute or found values for the effec.tive temperature of the sky from adiation measurements from C. to C. With a cirrus haze he found C. If we take a 1llean value C. , we get for the ratio of sky radiation to that from a black body at temperature C. , the value These values agree best with the values obtained on assumption ( 1 ) regarding the absorbing power of the atmosphere .
The radiation from the layer to is The radiation absorbed comes from the earth , from the layer to and from the outer layer to The amounts from these three sources are respectively and Thus if total absorption in the layer to is The balance of energy to be supplied by solar radiation and convection is * Hann , ' Lehrbuch der Meteorologie , ' p. 36 .
' ' Temperature of the Moon Mr. E. Gold .
The Isothermal of the [ Oct. 5 , By subtracting these values from those found for the more extensive layer , we get the energy to be supplied by convection and solar radiation to the layer to , i.e. , These amounts could be supplied by absorption of solar radiation alone , so that there will be little vertical convection above .
In fact , in case ( 4 ) the layer is absorbing more energy than it radiates .
The outward radiation across the outer limit of the atmosphere in the case when the layer above is isothermal is ; or if But this radiation must be equal to the difference between the incident and the reflected solar radiation , including in the reflected , the part of the diffused radiation which is returned to space , say one-half .
According to Abbott and Foul , *clouds reflect 65 per cent. of th ' solar radiation .
We may take the amount of diffused radiation to be 40 per cent. or to the cloud level l per cent. Thus , if there were no clouds present the incident solar radiation which the above to balance would be 80 per cent. of the total incident solar radiation , and if clouds were present the amount would be 100 per cent. per cent. , so that if the average intensity of solar radiation , the temperature of the upper layer in the cases of boreater absorption must be than that corresponding to the isothermal state from upwards .
The presence of clouds will not materially aHect the terrestrial and atmospheric radiation , since they reflect it but little and if they absorb they will also radiate for the same wave-lengths .
VII .
Application to the Consideratvon of the Daof the Earth 's If we would apply our results to a consideration of the day and night 'Annals of Astrophysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution , ' 1908 , p. 144 .
, p. 129 .
1908 .
] and Atmospheric Radiation .
temperature of the earth 's surface as Pointing *has(ione , we find , if we neglect oonduction , where are the diations at the time of maximum and temperature , is the downward atmospheric radiation , and are the rates at which energy is convected from the surface or is being lost by eyaporation .
is probably small and may be positive or ative , but will be considerable .
To produce an annual rainfall of 200 cm .
, which we may take as value for the equatorial zone , the rate at which energy is lost by evaporation is calories per minute per .
If the process goes on only the day , the average rate is per nlinute , and it seems fair to take the rate at the time of maximum temperature to be at least twice the average rate , so that we may put calories per minute .
and taking the mean air temperature to be 30 A. , so that , we or and ( i ) or ( ii ) two cases corresponding to the two assumptions as to the absorbing power of the atmosphere .
The temperatures would be A. or 34 A. A. or 29 A. At an altitude of 5 kilometres , oolresponding to a pressure equal to half the surface pressure , we have ( i ) or in the two cases .
Further , nearly , and in order to obtain an approximate value for let us put it equal to , where is the mean air temperature .
The value of will be or that the surface values are correct .
The equations for then become .
Mag , 1907 .
See Angstrom , ' Met .
Zeit 1901 , p. 187 .
The Isothermat Layer of the Atmosphere , etc. or , ( ii ) where A. , corresponding to a sea-level temperature of A. These give A. ( i ) or 31 A. ( ii ) , and the value of is nearly .
The values of are A. ( i ) and 2 1o A. ( ii ) .
These results indicate that the effect of solar radiation would be to set up convective streams in the atmosphere for a considerable height above an elevated plateau .
Thus in case ( i ) , at the time of the maximum , it would be necessary to ascend kilometres with an adiabatic gradient before reaching a place where the temperature was equal to the mean daily temperature at the surface ; and the effect of radiation in the atmosphere would not be in the direction of the adiabatic fall , since this fall would be in the lower layers of the atmosphere over the plateau , and would , in fact , be istent with radiation equilibrium to a height at least to that at which the pressure was equal to half the pressure at the surface of the plateau .

