296 Dr. H. Gadow and Miss Abbott .
On the [ June 21 , bone on its outer side , which corresponds to the distal end of the ulna , but there is no trace of a third bone preserved , and there is only one central bone preserved .
There are three phalanges in a digit .
The femur is 1-^- inches long ; its articular head appears to be small and hemispherical .
There is a large internal trochanter extending down the shaft , which corresponds with the similarly placed ridge in the femur of Megalosaurs and other Saurischia .
The slender character of the ribs , which are different from those in known Theriodonts , suggests the possibility that these remains belong to a group distinct from both the Cynodontia and Gomphodontia .
A small badly preserved fragment of a skull found near to this fossil is described , but there appears to be no sufficient evidence for associating it with the other remains .
XVIII .
" On the Evolution of the Vertebral Column of Fishes .
" By H. Gadow , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Miss E. C. Abbott .
Received June 20 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) Concerning the segmental mesodermal products the following subdivision is adhered to :\#151 ; The term myotome is to be restricted to the whole rest of the protovertebra after the skeletogenous cells have been given off for the production of the sklerotomes .
The sum total of the sklerotomes makes up the skeletogenous layer .
The ending tome to indicate the primary , or earlier , less differentiated ; the ending mere to signify the final condition or product .
Consequently , the protovertebree divide into\#151 ; I , Myotomes , each of which produces ( 1 ) one myomere or segment of the general mass of trunk-muscles , ( 2 ) cutis ; II , Sklerotomes which produce sklero-meres or skeletal trunk segments .
Each protovertebra produces a dorsal and a ventral sklerotome ; strictly speaking , one sklerotome which consists of a separate dorsal and ventral half The protovertebral segments are not transverse " plates , " but are curved into S-shape , the top end curving tail- and inwards , the middle and ventral thirds bulging headwards , the amount of curvature being ( in 7 mm. embryos of Acanthias ) so great that a transverse plane will cut through the dorsal and ventral third of one , and through the middle portion of the next following segment .
This S-shaped curving and consequent overlapping of the protovertebral " plates " SS is of fundamental importance for our under- 1894 .
] Evolution of the Vertebral Column of Fishes .
standing of the formation of the vertebral column , because it explains ( 1 ) the so-called new segmentation of the axial column , ( 2 ) the almost universal occurrence of more than one dorsal and one ventral pair of arcualia ( namely , arches and intercalary pieces ) in each of the later vertebral segments or skleromeres .
The explanation is as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The dorsal half of sklerotome 2 grows downwards and comes to lie behind the ventral half of sklerotome 1 .
2 .
The ventral half of sklerotome 2 grows upwards and comes to lie in front of and below the dorsal half of sklerotome 3 .
3 .
The formation of a physiological unit is effected by the combination or fusion of the unequally numbered sklerotomic halves , in such way that the dorsal half lies behind and above the ventral half .
The new skleromere I ( = dorsal sklerotome 2 +ventral sklerotome 1 ) stands now in the following relation to the myomeres ; the dorsal end of the skleromere I coincides with myomere I ; the septum between this myomere and the next previous one passes between dorsal sklerotome 2 and ventral sklerotome 1 ; this means to say right across the new skleromere I. This skleromere lies within the influence or range of action of two successive myomeres .
Taken as a whole , the skleromere is " interprotovertebral , " more correctly bi-pro to vertebral , because it is composed of two successive sklerotomes , namely , the ventral half of one and the dorsal half of a second .
Consequently , the " resegmentation " or " neugliederung is brought about in a manner fundamentally different to that hithei to supposed to have taken place .
If A and B mean two successive sklerotomes , a and b their dorsal , x and their respective ventral halves , then the new skleromere is composed of + * and not of \gt ; , , .
B dorsal .
A ventral because b + xis the same as---- \#166 ; +-----^---- .
The formation of a skleromere by the combination of alternating dorsal and ventral halves of sklerotomes explains also the presence of eight ( four pairs ) cartilaginous pieces , namely , basalia ( so-called dorsal and ventral arches ) and interbasalia ( so-called intercalary pieces ) for each complete segment .
The dorsal and ventral halves of the sklerotomes are pyramidal in shape , with their apices pointing respectively downwards and upwards .
Each ventral pyramid extends with its apex above the chorda , and founds there ( separated from the ventral mass by the subsequent rapid growth of the chorda and its sheath ) a cluster of cells which remains henceforth behind ( tailwards from ) the basal mass of the dorsal pyramid .
The latter founds , with its down-growing apex , a colony of cells below the chorda , and in front of the basal ventral mass .
Thus are produced the basalia and interbasalia , 298 Evolution of the Vertebral Column of Fishes .
[ June 21 , each colony or cluster of cells developing into a separate piece of cartilage .
The basidorsal does not fuse with its interdorsal , because both are the offspring of two different sklerotomes , nor can the basidorsal fuse with its own offspring , namely , with the interventral , because both became , and remain , separated by the chorda and its sheath ; they are connected only by the indifferent connective tissue of the membrana reuniens , but not by cartilage-forming cells .
Concerning the formation of centra or bodies of the vertebrae , we distinguish :\#151 ; I. Chorda-centra , i.e. , centra cut out of the full of the chordal sheath , which itself has been strengthened by invasion of cartilaginous cells from the skeletogenous layer .
This migration of cartilage into the chordal sheath had already been hinted at by Kcelliker more than thirty years ago ; it has recently been proved by Klaatscli , and has been corroborated by us .
Chorda-centra are possessed by all Elasmobranchs , potentially by Dipnoi and Holocephali .
II .
Arch-centra , i.e. , centra formed by the skeletogenous mass which remains entirely on the outside of the chordal sheath , which latter takes no .
share in their formation : osseous Ganoids and Teleostei .
Chorda-centra and arch-centra represent two different modes of development , each starting from an acentrous condition .
This can be expressed as follows :\#151 ; Chordal sheath remaining Chordal sheath strengthened by invasion of entirely chordagenous .
skeletogenous cells , therefore with possibility of chorda-centra .
Cyclostomata , Cartilaginous Ganoids .
Dipnoi and Holocephali .
Formation of Centra .
Osseous Ganoids , Teleostei .
Elasmobranchs .
Arch-centra .
Chorda-centra .
The formation of chorda-centra being independent of the arcualia explains how and why the number of " centra " does not necessarily agree either with that of the arcualia or with that of the trunk-segments , e.g. , Hexanchus and tail of most other Elasmobranchs .
These leading differences and their modifications have been traced in Petromyzon , Acipenser , Amia , Lepidosteus , Protopterus , Chimaara , and in numerous Elasmobranchs .
In Amia calva , of which the adult and a young specimen of 57 mm. were examined , the postcentrum , i.e. , the posterior , archless disk of a complete tail-vertebra , was found to be formed by the interdorsalia and interventralia of the same sklerotome , while the precentrum , i.e. the arch-bearing- disk or anterior half is formed by the basidorsals of 1894 .
] Structure and Affinities of Heliopora CcBruleu , fc .
299 the same sklerotome and the basiventrals of the next previous sklero-tome .
Thus skleromere 50 is composed of a postcentrum = interdorsal 50 + interventral 50 , and of a precentrum = basidorsal 50 + basiventral 49 .
The intermuscular septum runs obliquely across the precentrum , or , in other words , the precentra are bi-protovertebral or bi-myomeric , but not the postcentra .
The precentra of the tail of Amia are homologous with the " pleurocentra " in the tail of the Jurassic Eurycormus , while Amia 's postcentra are the same as the " hypocentra " of Eurycormus .
In Lepidosteus osseus , of which adult specimens and 1 arvre of various stages were examined , the combination of parts into one vertebral complex is superior to that of Amia , because each vertebra belongs , with its entire anterior half ( interdorsal 50 + basiventral 50 ) , to myomere 50 , and with its posterior half ( basidorsal 51 + interventral 51 ) , to myomere 51 .
In other words , the vertebral mass is equally divided between two successive myomeres , or the myomeres have an equal share of the skleromeres .
The vertebrae are now truly bi-protovertebral or bi-myomeric , each vertebra being composed of a + b. XIX .
" On the Structure and Affinities of cwrulea , Pall .
, with some Observations on the Structure of Xenia and HeteroxeniaABy Gilbert C. Bourne , M.A. , F.L.S. .
Fellow of New College , Oxford .
Communicated by Professor Lankester , F.R.S. Received May 30 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) I have had the opportunity of making a renewed examination of the structure of Heliopora , partly through the kindness of Professoi Ray Lankester , who gave me a very well preserved fragment of a colony brought by Dr. S. J. Hickson from Talisse , Celebes .
I ha\e also used some specimens which I collected and preserved in spirit in Diego Garcia , and , in studying the dried corallum , I have had the advantage of a large collection , originally the property of the late Mr. George Brook , which Mrs. Brook has very kindly handed over to me .
All the specimens in my possession are referable to the only recent species known , Heliopora ccerulea , but one of them belongs to the variety tuberosa , Dana .
The Soft Tissues.\#151 ; These form an even sheet , investing the surface of the colony , interrupted here and there by the mouths of the polyps , which are the only apertures opening on the surface .
Ihe structures described below are entirely superficial , and there is no direct com-

