This Illustrious Society having been pleased to accept of Mr Townley 's and my Observations compared , concerning the height of the Mercury , &amp;c. for divers years , to the year 1702 , which were published in the Transactions ; it may not , I hope , be unacceptable to continue these Observations as far as Mr Towneley hath gone with them , till his Removal from Towneley .
And having room , I have added his Observations also of the Weather and Winds on the first day of every month , together with my own at the same time , extracted out of my larger Tables , now in the Society 's custody .
From whence these things may be observed .
1 .
That ( as I have often observed in some other Papers ) there is every year much more Rain falls at Towneley than Upminster .
By the assistance of an Ingenious Learned Member of this Society , I have an Extract of the Rain at Paris and Lisle , as far as the French have published their Observations .
And by comparing the Rain of one place with that of another , I find that there is about twice as much Rain falls at Townley , as doth either at Upminster , Paris , or Lisle .
Mr Towneley hath formerly observed in one of the Transactions , that as much more Rain falls at Townley as Paris .
And Mr de la Hire observes , that more Rain falls at Lisle than Paris .
But Towneley doth far exceed , as hath been said , and will appear by particulars .
At Lisle , one year with another , the Depth of the Rains amount to 22 inches 3 lines , Paris measure , or 23 in .
3 l. which make about 23 1/ 2 inches English , or 24 1/ 2 .
At Paris , one year with another , they amount to 20 inches 3 1/ 2 lines Paris measure , which is near 22 inches English .
But at Towneley , one year with another , according to Mr Towneley 's computation formerly , the Rains amount to above 41 inches depth .
And by taking eight other years , in which the Rain was observed both at Towneley and Upminster ( viz. from 1696 to 1704 .
) I and that all the 8 years Rain at Towneley amounteth to bove 1700 l. Troy , at Upminster 823 l only .
Which said summs being divided by 8 , give 212 l. 1/ 29 one year with another , at Towneley , and near 103 l. at Upminster .
Each of which summs being doubled , and making a Decimal Fraction of the last Figure , doth nearly give the number of inches , which all the Rain would have risen to , if the Earth had not swallowed it up , viz. 42 ~ inches at Towneley , and about 20 1/ 2 inches at Upminster .
Wherefore the Rain at Upminster is less than at Paris , at Paris than at Lisle , and at every one of the places less than at Towneley by much .
The reason of which vast surmount at Towneley , is doubtless from the height of the Hills thereabouts , which retard or stop the Westerly Clouds : From which Point the Winds blow more than any other here in England .
But 2 .
Notwithstanding the great disproportion of Rain between one place and another , yet there is a great agreement between our Barometers ; one Rising or Falling when the other doth ; and that much , or little , as the other doth , although not always exactly in the same proportion .
And this is what I find Monsieur Maroldi hath observed , by comparing his Observations at Paris with mine at Upminster , in the years 1697 and 1698 .
Only at Paris the ~ is commonly 3 or 4 lines lower than at Upminster .
And so it appears to be at Towneley , from this and some other Tables , viz. 3 or 4 tenths of an inch lower at Towneley than at Upminster .
Which is an argument that Towneley and Paris are situated higher above the surface of the Sea than Upminster ( which is nearly in the same level with London ) is .
3 .
Another thing shown by the foregoing Table is , That there is some agreement between the Winds at Towneley and Upminster .
Which although not always exactly in the same Point , yet do often tend the same way , blowing within a Point or two perhaps of the same course ; especially when the Wind is somewhat strong .
Or if the Winds have differed , yet the Scudd ( as the Seamen call the current of the Clouds ) hath commonly shown the motion of the upper Air to agree thereto .
This I say doth often happen , though not always .
And this also Monsieur Maraldi hath observed at Paris in the aforesaid years , viz. ` ` That there are a great many days , during the different Seasons of the year , where the Winds are the same in both Places , [ i. e. Paris and Upminster .
] When the Wind was the same , both in one part and the other , it was ordinarily pretty strong , and of long continuance .
And also he observed that the Winds had changed alike in both Places .
Vid. Hist. de l ' Acad. Roy .
des Sciences An. 1699 .
Lllllllllll IV .
Astro-

