APPENDIX .
SUMMARY OP THE SECOND AND THIRD CHARTERS .
Extracted from Weld 's History of the Royal Society , Yol .
II .
, pp. 494-521 .
Second Charter1663 .
\ PAGE 494 .
Incorporation and Corporate Lame .
494 .
The King himself Founder and Patron .
495 .
Capacity to purchase ; and to grant ; and to sue and be sued ; and to have a common Seal ; ( which they have Liberty to alter at pleasure .
) 495 .
Grant of Arms , viz. Argent ; in a Canton Dexter , the three Lions of England : and also of a Crest , and Supporters .
496 .
The Council shall consist of Twenty-one ; ( of whom , the President or his Deputy shall be always one .
) 496 .
All other Persons who shall be received and admitted as Members , by the President and Council , or any eleven or more of them ( of whom , \amp ; c.)\gt ; or by two Thirds or more of those eleven or more within two Months ; and at all Times after those two Months ; by the President , Council , and Fellows , or by any twenty-one or more of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy to be one ) , or by two third Parts or more of the said twenty-one or moie , and shall be registered ; shall be called Fellows of the said Royal Society , for Life , unless regularly amoved .
497 .
William Lord Yiscount Brouncker , named to be the first President ; to continue so till the next St. Andrew 's Day , and till another ( out of the Council ) should be chosen and sworn .
He himself to be first sworn in before the Lord Chancellor .
497 .
The President 's Oath .
, 497 .
The first Council named .
To continue till next St. Andrew s Day , and till others shall be elected and sworn , unless amoved for just Cause ; having first taken , before the President , the like Oath as he took , mutatis mutandis .
499 .
The President , Council , and Fellows , or any nine or more o them ( of whom , \amp ; c. ) , may hold Assemblies at any Time or Place in London , or within ten Miles of it .
VOL. L. Appendix ' .
PAGE 499 .
500 .
500 .
501 .
501 .
502 .
502 .
503 .
The President , Council , and Fellows , or any thirty-one or more of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy to he one ) , or the major part of such thirty-one or more , may upon every St. Andrew 's Day , annually , elect one of the Council to he their President , who shall continue so , ( if not dead or amoved , ) till the nest St. Andrew 's Day , and till another shall he elected ; having first been sworn in before the Council , or any seven or more of them .
On the Death or Amotion of a President , or if he quit , the Council or any eleven or more of them may meet to choose a President out of the Council : and the Person chosen by them , or the major part of them , being sworn , shall hold during the Residue of the Year , and until another shall he elected and sworn .
On the Death , Amotion , or quitting of any of the Council , ( who are hereby made amoveable by the President and Council for sufficient Cause , ) the President , Council , and Fellows , or any twenty-one or more of them ( of whom , \amp ; c. ) , or the major part of such twenty-one or more , may supply the Vacancy from amongst the Fellows : And the Person or Persons elected shall hold , ( being first sworn , ) till the next St. Andrew 's Day , and until another or others shall be elected .
On St. Andrew 's Day , Ten of the Council ( but no more ) are to be changed by the President , Council , and Fellows , or any thirty-one or more of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy always to be one , ) or the major part of such thirty-one or more .
The President may appoint One out of the Council to he his Deputy ; who may act as such in his Absence , unless the President make some other Deputy out of the Council .
The Deputy may , in the Absence of the President , do all Acts that he himself could do if present ; but he must first he sworn before the Council , or seven or more of them .
The Society may have a Treasurer , two Secretaries , two or more Curators of Experiments , one Clerk or more , and two Sergeants at Mace to attend upon the President .
All these are to be chosen and named by the President , Council , and Fellows , or any thirty-one or more of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy to be one , ) or by the major Part of such Thirty-one or more ; And they must be sworn before the President or his Deputy , and the Council , or any seven or more of them .
The first Treasurer named ; and also the two first Secretaries .
Summary oj the Second and Third Charters .
481 PAGE 503 .
On every St. Andrew 's Day ( unless it be Sunday , and then on the next Day , ) the President , Council , and Fellows , or any Thirty-one or more of them ( of whom , \amp ; c. ) , or the major Part of such Thirty-one or more , may elect proper Persons out of the Council to be Treasurer and Secretaries ; who , after being sworn , are to hold their Offices till the following St. Andrew 's Day .
504 .
If the Elections of President , Council , Treasurer , and Secretaries , or any of them , cannot conveniently be made or finished upon St. Andrew 's Day , the President , Council , and Fellows , or any Thirty-one or more of them ( of whom , \amp ; c. ) , or the major Part of such Thirty-one or more , may appoint one or more other Day or Days till they shall be finished .
504 .
If any of the said Officers die , quit , or be amoved , the President , Council , and Fellows , or any Twenty-one or more of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy to be one , ) or the major Part of such Twenty-one or more , may elect others for the Residue of the Year , and till new ones shall be elected and sworn .
504 .
The President and Council ( e Member of the Council being always duly summoned to extraordinary Meetings , ) or any Nine or more of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy to be one ) may meet in London or within ten Miles of London ; and they , or the major Part of them , may make Laws , Statutes , and Ordinances , and transact all Matters relating to the Management of the Society and its Affairs , and all their Acts shall be valid : but their Statutes must be reasonable , and not contrary to Law .
505 .
The President , Council , and Fellows , or any Twenty-one or more of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy to be always one ) , or the major Part of such Twenty-one or more , may appoint one Printer or more , and one Engraver or more , and authorise them , by writing under the common Seal , and signed by the President , to print such Things ( touching or concerning the Royal Society ) as shall be given them in Charge by the President and Council , or any Seven or more of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy to be one ) , or the major Part of such Seven or more .
They must be first sworn before the President #nd Council , or Seven or more of them .
506 .
The President , Council , and Fellows , or any nine or more of them ( of whom , \amp ; c. ) , or the major Part of such nine or more , shall have the same Right to demand and receive ( by their Assignee or Assignees ) the Bodies of executed 2 l 2 482 Appendix .
PAGE Criminals , and to anatomize them , as the College of Physicians and the Company of Surgeons of London use or enjoy .
506 .
Licence is given to them or any nine ( as last above , ) or the major Part of them , to hold a Correspondence , on Philosophical , Mathematical , or Mechanical Subjects , with all sorts of Foreigners , by Letters signed by the President or his Deputy , in the Presence of the Council , or any Seven or more of them , and in the name of the Society .
507 .
Licence given to the President , Council , and Fellows , or to the President and Council , or the major Part of them , to build a College or Colleges in London , or within ten Miles of it .
507 .
If any abuses shall happen , or Dissensions arise , they shall be reformed and settled by the Earl of Clarendon ( Lord Chancellor ) alone , if living ; and after his Death by the Archbishop of Canterbury , the Chancellor or Keeper of the Great Seal , the Treasurer , Privy Seal , Bishop of London , and two principal Secretaries , for the Time being , or any four or more of them .
508 .
General Clauses .
Third Charter , 1669 .
509 .
Grant of Lands in Chelsey ; Tenure ; Bent ; Exonerations , Acquittances , \amp ; c. 514 .
Recital of some Parts of the Second Charter .
It takes Notice that several Powers , granted by that Charter , cannot he executed but by the President and Council or or more of them ; by virtue of that Charter .
This Charter directs that the President 's Deputy shall continue in Office , although the President do appoint one or more others : And it gives him express Power to appoint two or more Deputies , out of the Council , at one and the same Time ; who may , each of them , do the same Acts in his Absence , as he himself could do if present .
, But they must first be sworn before the Council , or five or more of them .
518 .
For the Future , the President , Council , and Fellows , or any nine of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy to be always one ) , may hold their Assemblies anywhere within the Kingdom of England .
Statutes of the Royal Society .
518 .
All Powers , \amp ; c. , which could not be exercised heretofore but by the President and Council , or seven or more of them , may for the future be exercised by the President and Council , or any five or more of them .
.518 .
For the future , the President may appoint one Printer or more , and one Engraver or more , and authorise him or them to print such Things ( touching or concerning the Royal Society ) as shall be given to him or them in Charge , by the President and Council , or any five or more of them ( of whom the President or his Deputy to be one ) , or by the major Paid of such five or more .
They must be first sworn before the President and Council , or a or more of them .
519 .
General confirmatory Clauses .
520 .
The President and Yice-Presidents are enjoined to take the Oath of Obedience and the Oath of , before the Council , or seven or more of them , previously to their acting .
STATUTES OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY , 1891 .
CHAPTER I. Of the Election and Admission of Fellotvs .
I. No person shall be proposed , elected , or admitted a Fellow of the Society on the day of the Anniversary Meeting for electing the Council and Officers .
II .
Every Fellow , previously to his proposing a person as a Candidate for Election , shall inform him of the Obligation to be subscribed , of the sum to be paid for admission money , and of the payments to be made to the Society , before he can be admitted a Fellow .
III .
Every such Candidate shall be proposed and recommended by a certificate in writing signed by six or more Fellows , of whom three at least shall certify their recommendation from personal knowledge .
The certificate shall specify the name , rank , profession , qualifications , and usual place of residence of the Candidate ; and being delivered to one of the Secretaries , 'or to the Assistant Secretary , shall be registered , with the date of delivery , in a book to be kept for the purpose , and read at the next ordinary meeting ; and , if so ordered , shall be suspended in some convenient place in the Apartments of the Society until the day of Election .

