XI .
" On the Thermal Effects of Fluids in Motion."-No .
II .
By J. P. JOULE , Esq. , F.R.S. and Professor W. THOMSON , F.R.S. Received June 15 , 1854 .
The first experiments described in this paper show that the anomalies exhibited in the last table of experiments , in the paper preceding it* , are due to fluctuations of temperature in the issuing steam consequent on a change of the pressure with which the entering air is forced into the plug .
It appears from these experiments , that when a considerable alteration is suddenly made in the pressure of the entering stream , the issuing stream experiences remarkable successions of augmentations and diminutions of temperature , which are sometimes perceptible for half an hour after the pressure of the entering stream has ceased to vary .
Several series of experiments are next described in which air is forced ( by means of the large pump and other apparatus described in the first paper ) through a plug of cotton wool , or unspun silk pressed together , at pressures varying in their excess above the atmospheric pressure , from five or six up to fifty or sixty pounds on the square inch .
By these it appears that the cooling effect which the air , as found in the authors ' previous experiments , always experiences in passing through the porous plug , varies proportionally to the excess of the pressure of the air on entering the plug above that with which it is allowed to escape .
Seven series of experiments , in each of which the air entered the plug at a temperature of about 16 ?
Cent. , gave a mean cooling effect of about '0175 ?
Cent. , per pound on the square inch , or '27 ?
Cent. per atmosphere , of difference of pressure .
Experiments made at lower and at higher temperatures showed that the cooling effect is very sensibly less for high than for low temperatures , but have not yet led to sufficiently exact results at other temperatures than that stated ( 16 ?
Cent. ) to indicate the law according to which it varies with the temperature .
Experiments on carbonic acid at different temperatures are also described , which show that at about 16 ?
Cent. , this gas experiences 4times as great a cooling effect as air .
They agree well at all the different temperatures with a theoretical result derived according to the genera ] dynamical theory from an empirical formula for the pressure of carbonic acid in terms of its temperature and density , which was kindly communicated by Mr. Rankine to the authors , having been investigated by him upon no other experimental data than those of Regnault on the expansion of the gas by heat and its compressibility .
Experiments were also made on hydrogen gas , which , although not such as to lead to accurate determinations , appeared to indicate very decidedly a cooling effect amounting to a small fraction , perhaps about -x , of that which air would experience in the same circumstances .
The following theoretical deductions from these experiments are made : I. The relations between the heat generated and the work spent in compressing carbonic acid , air and hydrogen , are investigated from the experimental results .
In each case the relation is nearly that of equivalence , but the heat developed exceeds the equivalent of the work spent , by a very small amount for hydrogen , considerably more for air , and still more for carbonic acid .
For slight compressions with the gases kept about the temperature 16 ?
, this excess amounts to about y1 of the whole heat emitted in the case of carbonic acid , and Ain the case of air .
II .
It is shown by the general dynamical theory , that the air experiments , taken in connexion with Regnault 's experimental results on the latent heat and pressure of saturated steam , make it certain that the density of saturated steam increases very much more with the pressure than according to Boyle 's and Gay-Lussac 's gaseous laws , and numbers are given expressing the theoretical densities of saturated steam at different temperatures , which it is desired should be verified by direct experiments .
III .
Carnot 's function in the " Theory of the Motive Power of Heat " is shown to be very nearly equal to the mechanical equivalent of the thermal unit divided by the temperature from the zero of the air-thermometer ( that is , temperature Centigrade with a number equal to the reciprocal of the coefficient of expansion added ) , and corrections , depending on the amount of the observed cooling effects in the new air experiments , and the deviations from the gaseous laws of expansion and compression determined by Regnault , are applied to give a more precise evaluation .
IV .
An absolute scale of temperature , that is , a scale not founded on reference to any particular thermometric substance or to any special qualities of any class of bodies , is founded on the following definition : If a physical system be subjected to cycles of perfectly reversible operations and be not allowed to take in or to emit heat except in localities , at two fixed temperatures , these temperatures are proportional to the whole quantities of heat taken in or emitted at them respectively during a complete cycle of the operations .
The principles upon which the unit or degree of temperature is to be chosen , so as to make the difference of temperatures on the absolute scale , agree with that on any other scale for a particular range of temperatures .
If the difference of temperatures between the freezing and the boiling-points of water be made 100 ?
on the new scale , the absolute temperature of the freezing-point is shown to be about 273'7 ; and it is demonstrated that the temperatures from the freezing-point on the new scale will agree very closely with Centigrade temperature by the standard air-thermometer ; quite within the limits of the most accurate practical thermometry when the temperature is between 0 ?
and 100 ?
Cent. , and very nearly if not quite within these limits for temperatures up to 300 ?
Cent. V. An empirical formula for the pressure of air in terms of its density , and its temperature on the absolute scale , is investigated , by using forms such as those first proposed and used by Mr. Rankine , and determining the constants so as to fulfil the conditions ( 1 ) of giving the observed cooling effects , ( 2 ) of agreeing with Regnault 's observations on expansion by heat , and ( 3 ) of agreeing with Regnault 's experimental results on compressibility at a particular temperature .
A table of comparison of temperature by the air-thermometer under varied conditions of temperature and pressure with the absolute scale , is deduced from this formula .
Expressions for the specific heats of any fluid in terms of the absolute temperature , the density , and the pressure , derived from the general dynamical theory , are worked out for the case of air according to the empirical formula ; and tables of numerical results derived exclusively from these expressions and the ratio of the specific heats as determined by the theory of sound , are given .
These tables show the mechanical values of the specific heats of air at different constant pressures , and at different constant densities .
Taking 1390 as the mechanical equivalent of the thermal unit as determined by Mr. Joule 's experiment on the friction of fluids , the authors find , as the mean specific heat of air under constant pressure , *2390 , from 0 ?
to 100 ?
Cent. '2384 , from 0 ?
to 300 ?
Cent.

