]\gt ; [ 339 ] XIII .
On the Tides of the Arctic Seas .
the Rev. SAMUEL HAUGHTON , M.D. Dubl .
, D.C.L. Oxon .
, P.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College , Dublin .
PalGVI .
Tides of Port , in Bellot Strait .
Received January 20 , \mdash ; Read March 4 , 1875 .
THE following observations were made by Admiral Sir LEOPOLD LINTOCIC ( then Captain ) in the month of July 1859 , at Port Kennedy , in Bellot Strait , on board the yacht ' Fox , ' in eleven fathoms depth , lat. N. , long .
W. The obselvations were made hourly , and , judging from the consistent and interesting results obtained from them , they must have been made and recorded with unusual care .
In Table I. the first column contains the Solar Hour , the second contains the Height of Tide , the third contains the Diurnal Tide , and the fourth the Tide .
The Diurnal Tide was calculated as follows : be the of the water at three periods , separated by intervals of twelve hours each , then the Diurnal Tide corresponding to the height is .
( 1 ) The third column was calculated from the second by this formula , and the column , contaimng the Semidiurnal Tide only , is the sum of the second and third columns .
REV .
S. HAUGHTON ON THE TIDES OF THE TABLE I.\mdash ; Hourly Values of the Diurnal and Semidiurnal Tide at Port Kennedy in July 1859 .
Semidi , lrnal Tide . .
in .
2 ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART .
PORT TABLE I. ( continued ) .
Midnight .
'342 REV .
S. UGHTON THE TIDES OF THE TABLE I. ( continued ) .
ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART .
PORT TNEDY .
TABLE I. ( continued ) .
20th July .
nght .
Mean 7 6 TABLE I. ( continued ) .
emidiurnal Tide .
4 6 6 5 7 emidiurnal Tide .
4 6 6 5 7 emidiurnal Tide .
4 6 6 5 7 ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART .
PORT KENNEDY .
TABLE I. ( continued ) .
A. Diurnal Tide .
Having obtained the hourly values of the Diurnal Tide in height , I them to scale , and readily obtained the following Table , the chief phases of the Diurnal Tide each day .
TABLE II.\mdash ; Times of the Principal Phases of the Diurnal Tide at Port Kennedy in July 1859 .
If we extract from this Table the Maximum and Minimum values of the apparent Solitidal Interval for each Phase , and reduce all to the Phase of High Water , we find\mdash ; TABLE III.\mdash ; Maximum apparent Diurnal Solitidal Interval at Port Kennedy in July 1859 .
ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART .
PORT KENNEDY .
The Diurnal Tide is represented by the formula , ( 2 ) where the letters have the stated in my former papers , viz.\mdash ; the Solar and Lunar coefficients uncorrected for Parallax ; the declinations of the Sun and Moon at an interval the observation called the Age of the Tide ; the Solar and Lunar at the time of obselvation ; the true Solitidal and Lunitidal Diulnal Intel'vals .
Lunar Tide vanishes when ; and this corresponds with Table III .
, which contains the Maximum value of the apparent Solitidal Interval not influenced the Moon , but the full effect of the Sun .
The Moon 's declination vanished twice : From N. to S. at , and S. to N. at which correspond fairly with the times of Maximum retardation of Solidiurnal Interral .
The age of the Tide may be found from the interval between the Moon 's declination and the Lunar Tide vanishing , as shown by lIaximum valuc of the Solitidal Interval .
From the first time of tide vanishing we have Age of Lunar Diurnal Tide . . .
1 From second time of tide vanishing we have Mean Age of Lunar Diurnal Tide . . .
0014 38 From Table III .
it appears that the value of , the true Diurnal Solitidal Interval , is . . . . . . .
( 3 ) The Minimum values of the apparent Solitidal , caused by the Maximum influence of the Lunar Tide , are contained in Table IV .
TABLE IV.\mdash ; Minimum apparent Diurnal Solitidal Interval at Port Kennedy in July 1859 .
This Table corresponds with the Maximum effect of the Lunar Tide ; and the age of Lunar Diurnal Tide may be found by comparing the results of this Table with the times of Maximum of Moon 's Declination .
The Moon 's Declination attained its Maximum value twice , viz. July 8 10 S. , From the first time of Minimum Solitidal Interval in Table IV .
we have Mean .
810 Age of Lunar Diurnal Tide .
1 17 From the second time of Minimum Solitidal Interval we have Mean 25 Age of Lunar Diurnal Tide . .
2 10 The Mean Age of Lunar Diurnal Tide is therefore Mean 1 ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART VI .
PORT KENNEDY .
or , Age of Lunar Diurnal Tide , .
( 4 ) We now proceed to determine the value of the Solar Coefficient , which may be leadily found as follows:\mdash ; We may throw the expression ( 2 ) for the Diurnal into th form , writing , . . . .
( 5 ) where ( G ) ( ) The Solar Diurnal Tide will occur alone when or The values of given from Table I. , and are as follows , in Table V. TABLE V.\mdash ; Heights of High and Low Water of Diurnal Tide at Port Kennedy in July If we add the age Lunar Diurnal Tide to the times of the Moon 's Declination vanishing , we shall have the times when Age 1414 1414 If we take the values of A nearest to these times , from Table .
we find at 3 at 202128 , and using the Sun 's declination at noon of the day before , we find or inches , and inches .
the mean of these values is inches . . . .
( 8 ) We can obtain the ratio of to from Tables .
and IV .
, and thus calculate as follows .
Differentiating ( 7 ) so as to make a Maximum or Minimum , we find the equation of condition . . . . . . .
( 9 ) Substituting in ( 7 ) , we find at the Maximum and Minimum ( 10 ) when , and the equation reduces to , or we assumed in determining the value of the true Diurnal Solitidal Interval from Table If we write , ( 11 ) we can reduce ( 10 ) to the following form , , or . . .
( 12 ) The Maximum and Minimum values of are found from Tables III .
and IV .
Maximum Minimum ; when is a Maximum , and ; therefore ( 12 ) reduces to ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART .
PORT KENNEDY .
when is a Minimum , equation ( 12 ) reduces to or but or or . . .
( 13 ) From ( 8 ) and ( 13 ) we find inches .
( 14 ) From the values already found for the constants of the Solar Diulnnl Tide , it was easy to calculate its value , for every hour , from the formula .
These values , if subtracted from the Diurnal Tide in Table I. , would leave the Lunar Dinrnal Tide , the principal phases ofWhich are given in the ving Table .
TABLE VI.\mdash ; Times of Half-Flood and Half-Ebb , and of High lVater and Water of the Lunar Diurnal Tide at Port Kennedy in July 1859 .
I have used the Times of Half-Flood and Half-Ebb in this Table in preference to the Times of High Water and Low Water , as the vertical motion of the lter is a maximum at Half-Flood and Half-Ebb .
Table VI .
contains the Solar Hours of Half-Flood and Half-Ebb .
These are reduced in the following Table to Lunar Hours .
TABLE 's Hour-Angle at times of Half-Flood and Half-Ebb of Luuar Diurnal Tide at Port Kennedy in July 1859 .
Hence the mean value of the true Diurnal Lunitidal Interval is at High Water . . . . . .
( 15 ) The coefficient , of the Lunar Diurnal Tide , may be found from Heights from VI .
Lunar Diurnal Tide reached its maximum\mdash ; in .
July131138 July 2 3 Moon 's Maximum declination occurred\mdash ; July 810 July22 23 S. ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART .
PORT KENNEDY .
These values give for the age of the Lunar Tide deduced from Age of Lunidiurnal Tide 5 1 38 Mean .
4 6 This result differs considerably from the age deduced from Times , and agrees with what I have noticed in several tidal observations , viz. that the age of the Tide deduced from Heights is greater than that deduced from Times .
Taking the mean of the Maximum Heights , we have inches , inches ; ( 1Cj and finally , and ( 16 ) , .
( 17 ) If collect togethe ] .
all the preceding results , we obtain the following:\mdash ; Constants of the Diurnal Tide at Port Kennedy in July 1859 .
Solar Diurnal Tide .
Age . . .
Unknown .
True Solitidal Interval Coefficient ( uncorrected for Parallax ) inches .
Lunar Diurnal Tide .
Age 1d ( Times ) .
( Heights ) .
True Lunitidal Interval . .
Coefficient ( uncorrected for ) inches ( Times ) .
, , ( Heights ) .
Times ) .
( Heights ) .
B. Semidiurnal Tide .
From the column of Semidiurnal Tides in Table I. it is easy to construct the following TABLE VIII .
Heights and Luuitidal Intervals of Semidiurnal Tide at Port Kennedy in July 1859 .
ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART VI .
PORT KENNEDY .
From this Table we find : II .
( continued ) .
Mean of Lunitidal Intervals .
43 High Waters . . . . . . . .
43 Low Waters reduced to phase of Water .
23 43 Mean Lunitidal Interval . . . .
23 46 Mean Height .
in .
High Water 8 Low Water . . . . .
5 The Maximum and Minimum Ranges in height were as follows:\mdash ; in .
MaximumRange . . . . .
6 2 4 .
in .
Minimum Range .
345 1 .
251740 Hence we have , if and represent the Lunar and Solar Semidiulnal Coefficients , nncorrected for Declination and Parallax , inches .
7 .
( 18 ) Table IX .
contains the Times and Lunitidal Intelvals of Half-Flood and Half-Ebb , determined from Table I. , from the moment at which the water-level passed the mean height of Tide-level , as noted at foot of column 4 , for each day .
IX.\mdash ; Times and Lunitidal Intervals of and Half-Ebb of Semidiurnal Tide at Port Kennedy in July 1859 .
ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART VI .
PORT KENNFDY .
TABLE IX .
( continued ) .
26 .
IIDCCCLXXV 3 From this Table we find : Mean Lunitidal Interval of 44 Half-Floods 20 4519 43 Half-Ebbs . . .
2 5424 Reducing the Lunitidal Tntervals found from Tables VIII .
and IX .
to the phase of High Water , we have Mean Interval From High Waters . . . . . .
23 4858 Low Waters . . .
2343 1 Half-Floods 234519 Half-Ebbs .
23 Mean 2348 1 ( 19 ) or \mdash ; 01159 We may calculate the ratio of the Solar and Lunar Semidiurnal Tides from Tables VIII .
and IX .
by the following method : Let where are the parallax of the Moon and Sun , taken at an interval before the observation equal to the age of the respective Tides ; and are the mean values of same .
Then if the Semidiurnal Tide be , ( 20 ) we may write ( 20 ) thus .
, . . . . .
( 21 ) whel.e , . . .
( 22 ) .
( 23 ) The Maximum and Minimum values of A are and used in finding ( 18 ) ; and the Maximum and Minimum values of are found by differentiating ( 23 ) , which gives , as the equation of condition , . . . . . .
( 24 ) ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART VI .
POBT KENNEDY .
Combining ( 23 ) and ( 24 ) we find , after a few reductions , .
( 25 ) If we assume the equation ( 25 ) will reduce to the following:\mdash ; tan , or . . . . . .
( 2C ) The Maximum and Minimum values of , or of the Lunitidal Interval , are found from Tables VIII .
and IX .
, and are as follows:\mdash ; Maximum Values of Lunitidal Intelval .
High Water , Low Water . . . .
Half-Flood .\mdash ; .
Half-Ebb 25 5 at 1410 1 , , 271421 Mean Minimum Values of Lunitidal Interval .
High Water , , Low Water Half-Flood , , IIalf-Ebb 23 at 617 , , , 6 From equation ( 26 ) we see that the value of ranges above and below that of , by ON THE TIDES OF THE ARCTIC SEAS.\mdash ; PART .
PORT KENNEDY .
a quantity equal to , which is half the difference between the maximum and minimum values of B. Hence we find Maximum value of Minimum , .
, , .
( 27 ) Collecting ether the foregoing results , we have the following Constants of the Tidc at Port Kennedy in Lunal Semidiurnal Tide .
Interval . . . . .
Ratio of ( Uncorrected Declination Palallax .
)

