216 Mr. T. Andrews .
Electromotive Force between [ Mar. 26 March 26 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Chairman announced that Mr. Walter White , after more than forty years of faithful service , had retired from the office of Assistant Secretary , and that Mr. Herbert Rix had been appointed to fill the vacancy .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Observations on Variations of the Electromotive Force between Metals at High Temperatures in Fused Salts .
" By Thomas Andrews , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Sir Henry Roscoe , F.R.S. Received March 12 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) Reversals of the electromotive force between platinum and other metals in fused salts appear to have been noticed by Andrews about the year 1837 , and in 1858 Hankel made some observations in this direction ( Hankel , " Poggendorff 's Annalen , " 103 , p. 612 , 1858 ) .
Dr. Gladstone and Mr. Tribe ( " Phil. Mag. , " 1881 ) also found that a strip of silver plunged in molten Agl or AgCl , gives .rise to a growth of silver crystals ; the cause of this separation is the dissimilar temperature of different portions of the strip which produces thermocurrents .
The present communication is an attempt to obtain quantitative estimations of the E.M.F. , and of the extensive deviations from the normal electro-chemical positions of the metals ( platinum and copper and platinum and iron ) in fused salts , and the conditions of high temperature attending these reactions , which do net appear to have been previously determined .
The cell for fusing consisted of a large platinum crucible ( surrounded by known high temperatures ) forming one element , a thick bent copper or iron rod inserted in the fused salt forming the other , or more frequently the copper plug of the Siemens ' water pyrometer ( which had been used in taking the time changes of temperature ) was thus employed .
A delicate galvanometer of known Constants was used for taking the E.M.F. , which was calculated from the observed deflections , in conjunction with the 1885 .
] Metals at High Temperatures in Fused Salts .
ascertained resistances of the fused salts .
The temperatures were determined in a large number of observations by the aid of a Siemens* water pyrometer .
The salts employed as electrolytes were potassium carbonate , potassium chloride , potassium nitrate , potassium chlorate , potassium bisulphate , and sodium chloride , using platinum and copper i , r iron as elements .
The action of two dissimilar salts in contact during fusion at 845 ' 0 .
( K2C03 and NaCl ) on the same metal , platinum , was also observed , and considerable reversals of the E.M.F. to the extent of 0*37 volt occurred apparently from divergence of temperature in the relative rate of cooling from fusion of the two salts .
Table A* contains quantitative estimates in volts of the deviations of the E.M.F. from the normal .
The results on this Table A show that by a regulation of the heat between the metals forming the elements , extensive deviations from the normal electro-chemical [ positions of the metals were obtainable , in connexion with some of the above fused salts , under the conditions of temperature recorded on the Tables A and B. In K2C03 , fused and resolidified ( being then under the fusing point ) , a reverse E.M.F. of 1*037 volts was noticed ( platinum ; positive ) , the current flowing from the platinum to the copper ; on remelting the salt and equalising the temperature throughout \ to 845 ' C. , an instant reversal of the direction of the current took place , the metals resuming their normal positions with an E.M.F. of 0*22 volt , platinum being now negative .
In the case of platinum and iron , under the same conditions in the above salt , a total deviation of about 0*88 volt from the normal position was obtainable ( platinum positive ) .
In the water tube experiments greater divergences were noticed ( see Table B ) .
With potassium chloride , interchanges of position between the metals occurred , platinum at first being positive , with an E.M.F. of 0*318 volt , representing a total deviation of 0*94 volt .
With potassium nitrate just before fusion point , an E.M.F. of 0*088 volt was observed ( platinum positive ) ; on the salt , however , reaching fusion , a reversal took place , the copper assuming its normal positive position .
Table B contains estimates of the temperature conditions attending the variations of the E.M.F. in fused KgCO^ Considerable reversals of the E.M.F. were noticed ( platinum positive ) .
The experiments in columns 1 and 3 show that a temperature divergence of about 260 ' C. between the platinum and copper , gave a reverse E.M.F. of 0*44 volt ( platinum positive ) , a difference of 265 ' C. between platinum and iron gave a reverse E.M.F. of 0*24 volt ( platinum positive ) , the .
E.M.F. reducing to a certain extent as the temperature difference decreased .
To obtain a greater difference of temperature between * The Tables A and B are not given in this abstract .
VOL. XXXVIII .
218 Electromotive Force between Metals in Fused Halts .
[ Mar. 26 the metals ( see columns 2 and 4 ) , the copper element consisted oi a bent pipe , immersed in the fused salt , through which water was kept flowing , the temperature of the copper being about 29 ' C. The platinum crucible was surrounded by temperatures from 549 ' to 879 ' C. , a total variation of 850 ' C. between the two elements was obtained .
A similar method was adopted in the platinum and iron experiments .
A temperature divergence of about 518 ' C. between platinum and copper gave a reverse E.M.F. of 0 92 volt ( platinum positive ) , but with the salt in liquid fusion ( platinum at 879 ' C. , copper at 29 ' C. ) a reverse E.M.F. ( platinum positive ) of only 0*66 volt was obtainable .
A temperature variance of about 522 ' C. between platinum and iron yielded an E.M.F. of 053 volt ( platinum positive ) , but when the salt was in liquid fusion ( platinum 879 ' C. , iron 29 ' C. ) a reverse E.M.F. ( platinum positive ) of only 040 volt was noticed .
In a cell of this description , two opposing !
forces were observed in operation , the thermo-electric , contending at ] the higher temperatures with the normal electro-chemical action of 1 the fused salt .
The results of the water pipe experiments , recorded I in detail on Table B , show that generally from some cause the extent of the reversed E.M.F. did not appear to correspond in exact proportion with the temperature divergences between the metals ; this result may perhaps be accounted for by the electrolyte at the increased temperatures combating the thermo-electric influences , and commencing to restore the true electro-chemical equilibrium of the metals .
A point of temperature is reached where the thermal effects counterbalance the normal electric action of the fused salt .
There is apparently a powerful thermic influence , where equality of temperature does not obtain , reversing the E.M.F. from the metals , notwithstanding their immersion at high temperatures in such electrolytes as fused salts ; this reversal of direction of the current in the case of K2C03 , continuing even with the salt at a temperature of 695 ' C. , or above , the current passing from the hotter platinum to the colder copper .
When , however , the point of fusion of the hot solidified salt is reached ( 834 ' C. ) , the metals , being at an uniform temperature therein , resume their true electro-chemical positions .
The foregoing and other repeated experiments appear to indicate that in the form of apparatus used by the author , these interchanges in the direction of the current between platinum and copper , or platinum and iron , were almost solely caused by differences of temperature surrounding the two metals forming the elements .

